-- Dynegy Debate Intensifies in Hours Before Vote on Takeover by Blackstone
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2010-11-16T14:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/dynegy-debate-intensifies-in-hours-before-vote-on-blackstone-bid.html
Dynegy Inc. shareholders will vote
tomorrow on whether to accept a $4.50-a-share buyout offer from
 Blackstone Group LP  or bet that the Houston-based power producer
can rebound after its sixth quarterly loss in two years.  Advice to shareholders has been contradictory.
Institutional Shareholder Services Inc., an investor-research
firm, recommended a “yes” vote last week for the $540 million
deal, saying the stock may be worth as little as $2.66, an
eight-year low, without Blackstone’s offer to prop it up.  JPMorgan Chase  & Co. analyst Andrew Smith yesterday told
clients to buy the  stock  because it might rise as high as $7 if
Dynegy’s two largest shareholders succeed in defeating the
takeover and installing new management supported by a $2 billion
line of credit.  “I don’t know what the outcome is going to be,” Charles
Fishman, a Falls Church, Virginia-based analyst for Pritchard
Capital Partners LP, said in an interview yesterday. “It’s
going to be close.”  Dynegy’s board announced Aug. 13 it had accepted the
Blackstone offer, which was 62 percent above the previous day’s
closing price and is valued at $4.7 billion including  debt .
Dynegy said yesterday Blackstone’s is the only proposal, after a
two-year search and a monthlong solicitation for a higher bid,
that “provides certain value for our common shareholders.”  “There is a material chance” the bid will be rejected,
 Julien Dumoulin-Smith , a New York-based analyst for UBS
Securities LLC, wrote today in a note to clients. Dumoulin-Smith
wrote that he believes the deal will be approved by a simple
majority of shareholders.  Icahn’s Opposition  Billionaire New York investor Carl Icahn declared the
Blackstone bid too low on Oct. 12. Hedge fund Seneca Capital,
holder of 9.3 percent, joined Icahn a week later in opposing the
offer. Icahn yesterday disclosed his stake had risen from 10
percent to 14.5 percent, including 5.5 million call options,
making him Dynegy’s largest shareholder.  Seneca’s  Douglas A. Hirsch  asked shareholders in a filing
yesterday to replace two of Dynegy’s six board members with its
own candidates through a process called a consent offering that
requires approval by a majority of all outstanding shares and a
60-day notice to the company.  Seneca may join with  RRI  Energy Inc. to offer more than $6
a share for Dynegy if the Blackstone bid is rejected, the Wall
Street Journal reported today, citing unidentified people
familiar with the matter.  Split Advice  Lisa Wolford, a Seneca spokeswoman, had no immediate
comment on the report. Laurie Fickman, a spokeswoman for
Houston-based RRI, didn’t immediately return a voicemail message
left before regular business hours.  Dynegy  rose  3 cents to $4.66 at 9:36 a.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have closed above
Blackstone’s $4.50 offer price on every day except for four in
the three months since the purchase was announced.  Four proxy advisory firms split evenly over their
recommendation on the vote. ISS and Egan-Jones Ratings Co.
support the buyout, saying that while shareholders may be
disappointed in the price, they otherwise face the risk of
bankruptcy if power markets don’t improve. Proxy Governance Inc.
and Glass Lewis & LLC recommended a “no” vote.  Credit Line  JPMorgan’s comment that the shares will rise was prompted
by proposals last week from Icahn and Seneca. Icahn offered a $2
billion line of credit to keep Dynegy liquid and avoid the
Blackstone sale. Seneca nominated a former rail executive and a
power executive to replace Chief Executive Officer  Bruce Williamson  and David Biegler on Dynegy’s board.  “Seneca’s last-minute proposal to nominate two directors
is a desperate attempt to derail the Blackstone transaction
based on hopes and assumptions about future energy prices, the
timing of the implementation of Clean Air regulations, and other
factors that neither Dynegy nor Seneca control,”  David Byford ,
a Dynegy spokesman, said Nov. 11.  Two others are also willing to serve on the board if any
Dynegy directors resign, Seneca said in yesterday’s filing.  The profit outlook for Dynegy has improved since the board
accepted the Blackstone offer because of higher forward prices
for electricity and lower coal prices, Seneca said in the
filing.  Icahn’s offer of a credit line would buy time for new
management to restructure debt or sell assets before a cash
crunch hits, JPMorgan’s Smith wrote.  In a statement yesterday, Blackstone said Icahn may use his
“privileged position” as a creditor to force bankruptcy and
take over Dynegy. “Adding more debt is not a step that results
in greater shareholder value,” Byford said in a statement.  Breaking Up Dynegy?  If shareholders reject Blackstone’s offer, the new
directors and new management may break up Dynegy over the next
two or three years, yielding about $9 a share, Pritchard
Capital’s Fishman wrote in a note to clients yesterday. He
maintained his neutral rating on the stock.  NRG Energy Inc. , Texas’s second-largest power producer,
agreed to pay $1.36 billion for Dynegy plants in California and
Maine, contingent on the Blackstone offer closing. Dynegy also
has plants in the U.S. Midwest and Northeast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 