-- Eastern EU's Strength Is Shown in Greece's Hidden Debt, Cheuvreux Says
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2010-11-16T10:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/eastern-eu-s-strength-is-shown-in-greece-s-hidden-debt-cheuvreux-says.html
Greece’s hidden debt shows that
eastern members of the European Union have sounder public
finances than western countries of the bloc, Credit Agricole
Cheuvreux SA said.  Greece concealed 5.3 billion euros ($7.2 billion) of debt
between 2001 and 2007 by using off-market swaps, the biggest of
which were with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , Eurostat, the EU’s
statistics office in Luxembourg, said yesterday.  Repeated revisions of Greece’s figures started last year,
spurring a surge in borrowing costs that pushed the country to
the brink of default and triggered a region-wide debt crisis.
The use of off-market derivatives helped push borrowings to
126.8 percent of gross domestic product in 2009, the highest in
the region, Eurostat said.  “No question, the Eurostat revision of Greek debt data is
scary,”  Simon Quijano-Evans , head of emerging-market strategy
at Cheuvreux in Vienna, wrote in a report today. “Is this bad
for central and east Europe? In our view not. On the contrary,
it should highlight yet again the better fiscal position of most
of eastern Europe versus western peers.”  Public debt will reach 85 percent of GDP in the euro area
this year and could be 118 percent in Italy, compared with 79
percent in Hungary, 54 percent in Poland and 40 percent in the
Czech Republic, European Commission estimates show.  The Eurostat report also underlines “that Hungary looks
way better than Greece, and that the reining in of the budget
deficit will help,” Quijano-Evans wrote. It also shows that
“other needy EU members just don’t have the luxury to negate EU
and International Monetary Fund support” while “countries like
Poland are heading into a risk zone if they continue to move
along the expansive fiscal path,” he said in the report.  Poland last month revised its estimates for this year’s
general government deficit to 7.8 percent of GDP from a previous
forecast of 6.9 percent of GDP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  