-- EasyJet CEO McCall Dilutes Low-Cost Model to Chase Business-Travel Market
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-11-16T16:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/easyjet-plans-to-pay-first-ever-dividend-after-its-annual-income-jumps-70-.html
EasyJet Plc  Chief Executive Officer
 Carolyn McCall  said Europe’s second-largest discount airline
will offer flexible tickets to lure business flyers, increasing
competition with network carriers including  British Airways Plc .  McCall, who has been conducting a strategy review since
taking over in July, said today that Luton, England-based
EasyJet will seek to lift profit margins by sharpening the focus
on corporate customers, who account for 18 percent of its sales.  The switch will boost average fares and help differentiate
EasyJet from Ryanair Holdings Plc, Europe’s biggest discount
carrier, which is adding business-friendly routes at city-center
airports but which offers no flexibility. At the same time the
move brings its model closer to those of BA and low-cost rival
Air Berlin Plc, and could also increase administrative costs.  “This would create a ‘low-cost plus’ carrier, sticking to
discount principles but incorporating less traditional fare
elements,” said  Gert Zonneveld , an analyst at Panmure Gordon in
London with a “buy” rating on the stock. “EasyJet has the
network and frequencies to make a business offering feasible,
but added complexity can have cost implications.”  EasyJet fell 4.8 percent to 448 pence as of the close in
London, the biggest drop since July 28 and the worst performance
on the eight-member Bloomberg EMEA Airlines Index, which
declined 3.8 percent. The stock has  gained  27 percent this year
for a market value of 1.93 billion pounds ($3.1 billion).  First Dividend  McCall, 49, who joined from Guardian Media Group Plc with
no experience of the aviation industry, said today that EasyJet
plans to make dividend payments for the first time in its 15-
year history after  net income  jumped 70 percent to 121.3 million
pounds in the 12 months ended Sept. 30. The carrier reported a
pretax profit of 154 million pounds after saying on Oct. 6 that
the figure would beat a 150 million-pound target.  Revenue per seat will probably be flat in the first half of
the current fiscal year, EasyJet said. That guidance is
“disappointing” and suggests a revenue bounce enjoyed by the
industry since the end of the recession is coming to an end,
said  George Humphreys , an analyst at NCB Group in London.  The International Air Transport Association said on Sept.
21 that airline earnings will probably peak at $8.9 billion this
year before falling to $5.3 billion in 2011. While European
carriers have generally raised guidance as demand recovers,
EasyJet’s fiscal year begins later than at peers such as
Deutsche Lufthansa AG and Ryanair.  Stelios Pressure  EasyJet is paying a dividend and modifying its strategy
following pressure from founder  Stelios Haji-Ioannou , who had
lobbied McCall to return cash to investors and adopt a less-
seasonal and tourist-dependent model. The entrepreneur said
today that the CEO’s announcements were “positive moves.”  The first shareholder payment will be made in 2012 for the
current fiscal year, conditional on a dividend cover of five
times, EasyJet said in a statement.  Ryanair  paid a one-time dividend of 500 million euros last
month, its first such award, after CEO  Michael O’Leary  opted to
limit fleet growth, citing a maturing discount-travel market.
It’s also looking at routes to all European airports, other than
London Heathrow, Frankfurt and Paris Charles de Gaulle.  While EasyJet’s business plan is “sound,” the strategy
review showed it could capture a bigger share of European short-
haul travel and lure more corporate flyers, McCall said.  To target that market EasyJet will introduce flexible fares
allowing customers to change flights until two hours before
departure. Passengers will be able to make unlimited changes one
week before and up to three weeks after the booked date, and the
fare will include speedy boarding and one checked luggage item.  Fleet Plan  “We want to target more business customers,” McCall said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s Countdown with  Maryam Nemazee . “It will be an investment, but one that will return
itself quite comfortably.”  EasyJet will add 24 aircraft by September 2013, giving it a
220-strong fleet, equal to a 7 percent capacity increase. Growth
will thereafter be in the region of 4 and 8 percent a year, the
CEO said. Seating rose by an average 15 percent in 2005-2008.  “This looks like a sensible strategic plan,” said  Wyn Ellis , an analyst at Numis Securities in London with a “hold”
rating on EasyJet stock.  Stelios, who prefers to be known by his first name, said
McCall should “carefully assess the financial viability” of
any expansion, while also aspiring to a dividend payout ratio of
50 percent “over time.”  Brand Agreement  McCall has also sought to ease tensions with EasyJet’s
founder and top investor by resolving a brand-licensing dispute.  The Oct. 11 deal allows the carrier to use the “Easy”
identity to boost revenue through marketing deals with other
companies for up to 50 years, in exchange for paying its founder
a royalty of 0.25 percent of revenue, fixed at 3.9 million
pounds and 4.95 million pounds in the first and second years.  “People had assumed that the brand-licensing deal marked
the end of public debate about strategy with the largest
shareholder, but this that may not now be the case,” said
 Douglas McNeill , an analyst at Charles Stanley Securities in
London with a “sell” recommendation on the stock.  McCall has also faced crew shortages that caused delays
across over the busy summer months. The CEO said today that
revised assumptions for staff numbers, flexible rosters and
improved management and communications should address the issue.  Analysts had anticipated full-year earnings of 114 million
pounds. Net income was equal to 28 pence a share, up from 71.2
million pounds, or 16.6 pence, a year earlier, while sales rose
11 percent to 2.97 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  