-- Stark Says ECB Will Continue Exit After the End of the Year
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2010-11-16T15:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/ecb-will-continue-phasing-out-stimulus-measures-after-year-end-stark-says.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member  Juergen Stark  said the bank will continue its exit
from emergency measures after the end of the year, as European
Union leaders struggle to cope with a renewed fiscal crisis
across the euro region’s periphery.  “The phasing out of our liquidity support measures will
continue after the end of the current quarter,” Stark in a
speech in Frankfurt today. “In my view, conditions in both
money and financial markets have improved significantly over
recent months, notwithstanding the most recent tensions in some
segments of the European sovereign debt market.”  The ECB’s removal of emergency measures is being
complicated by renewed concerns about the fiscal health of
countries like  Ireland , Portugal and Greece. That’s fueled
speculation that the central bank may have to keep stimulus in
place for longer and increase its purchases of government bonds.  Stark’s comments are “unhelpful to say the least,” said
 Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc in London. “It’s a bold call to make when you have
three countries in your region effectively cut off from the
markets. The only way you could rationalize it is if the ECB
were preparing a special solution for the troubled countries and
continue with the exit for the core.”  Operational Framework  Stark said “some future changes may be envisaged” to the
ECB’s operational framework in the post-crisis world.  “One example may be the impact of the new liquidity
regulation,” he said, without elaborating. “We will carefully
monitor and adapt the framework, in line with the principles, if
need arises.”  Supplying banks with unlimited liquidity to unlock credit
markets has been the cornerstone of the  ECB’s response  to the
financial crisis. While it has ceased offering 12-month and six-
month loans, banks can still borrow as much as they want from
the ECB for periods of up to three months. The ECB’s  bond-
purchase program , which was openly opposed by Bundesbank
President  Axel Weber , is also still in place.  Stark said the emergency measures “were the exceptional
response to exceptional circumstances” and that the central
bank’s “unambiguous mandate” is “to deliver price
stability.”  “With a normalization in financial markets the demand for
excess liquidity is dropping, so that the withdrawal of non-
standard measures can proceed,” he said.  Trust Among Banks  Since summer, the amount of liquidity demanded in ECB
refinancing operations has declined by about a third and, as a
consequence, excess liquidity in the system has dropped by about
60 percent, Stark said. There has also been a “reactivation on
the interbank money market,” where EONIA  volume  “has nearly
doubled.”  “I would take this development as a positive sign that
banks trust each other more,” he said.  The ECB has already had to delay its exit once when
Greece’s fiscal crisis flared earlier this year. Now bond
markets have been spooked again by Ireland’s predicament.  Ireland is in talks with European and International
Monetary Fund officials about a bailout that would shore up the
state’s finances as well as enable it to inject capital into the
country’s banks, said a European official with direct knowledge
of the talks.  “Central bank independence is also fully borne out by the
strict prohibition of monetary financing,” Stark said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gabi Thesing  in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  