-- Ecuador’s Correa ‘At Risk’ Without Economic Rebound
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2010-11-16T19:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/ecuador-s-correa-is-at-risk-if-economy-doesn-t-improve-moody-s-says.html
Ecuador President  Rafael Correa’s 
government is “at risk” without an increase in economic growth
in South America’s seventh-biggest economy, said  Patrick Esteruelas , an analyst with Moody’s Investors Service.  The widening deficit, a lack of private investment and
“unsustainable” public spending give Correa few options to
boost growth and threaten his ability to govern, Esteruelas said
today at a conference in Quito.  Ecuador forecasts a $3.73 billion budget deficit next year
and is seeking new funding sources to finance spending after
exhausting local pension funds and credit from multilateral
lenders.  Correa  said in October he’s considering selling
international bonds to finance infrastructure projects in what
would be the nation’s first debt offering abroad since 2005.  “Correa’s approval rating has fallen notably because of
the economy’s poor performance,” Esteruelas said. Correa
“could see himself threatened if the economy doesn’t rebound.”  Ecuador’s use of the U.S. dollar as its currency is being
hampered because of a lack of liquidity, Esteruelas said. The
dollar is the “principal anchor” of Ecuador’s credit rating,
he said.  “Dollarization continues to be relatively sustainable, but
it is under risk,” Esteruelas said. “It’s a necessary evil and
it’s difficult to imagine an orderly exit from the dollar
regime. It would be political suicide.”  Few Fiscal Options  National protests in September show “what could be the
reaction to new, more austere fiscal policies,” he said. “The
government doesn’t have an ample margin to maneuver with public
spending because of the lack of financing and restrictions that
the dollarized regime imposes,” he said.  The Andean nation’s “persistent conflicts” with oil
companies have made a recovery in output “impossible” further
limiting government revenue, Esteruelas said. Ecuador is the
smallest member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries.  The country expects  gross domestic product  will expand 5.1
percent next year, up from this year’s expected increase of 3.7
percent, according to the central bank. The price of oil, which
accounts for about a quarter of government revenue, will average
$73.30 a barrel next year, the Finance Ministry’s said in its
proposed 2011  budget .  ‘Negative’ Investment Climate  Ecuador’s economy will probably expand less than government
forecasts because of a “negative” investment climate and
declining crude production, former Finance Minister  Alfredo Arizaga  said today in a speech at the same conference.  “The economy will continue with this low rhythm of
growth” because “government policies are putting a brake on
the economy,” said Arizaga, who forecasts a 2.6 percent
expansion next year. “A country can’t keep growing at high
rates if investments don’t also grow.”  Ecuador’s foreign direct investment rose to $27.7 million
in September from $14 million a month earlier, according to a
report by the nation’s Superintendent of Companies, a market
regulator. The report didn’t give annual figures.  Ecuador’s economy, which grew 0.36 percent in 2009, is
trailing regional peers as government threats to expropriate
private oil companies that don’t sign new contracts have led to
a decline in production. Correa has given “large” oil
companies, including  Repsol YPF SA  of Madrid and Rio de Janeiro-
based  Petroleo Brasileiro SA , until Nov. 23 to switch to service
contracts or leave the country.  More Loans  Moody’s rates Ecuador’s debt Caa3, nine steps below
investment grade. Fitch Ratings Ltd., which raised Ecuador’s
issuer default rating to B- from CCC, said in a Nov. 5 report
that a recovery in global oil prices and better access to
international financing improved the country’s outlook. Standard
& Poor’s rates the debt B-, six levels below investment grade
and one level under Argentina.  Ecuador will seek $1.1 billion in loans from domestic
investors and $3.86 billion from foreign lenders to cover the
budget deficit, according to the proposed budget. The country
owed China $3.66 billion as of July 31, according to a September
Finance Ministry report. That doesn’t include a $1 billion loan
signed in August.  Emerging markets may “show strong, sustained growth” next
year with Latin America expanding as much as 4.3 percent,
Esteruelas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nathan Gill  in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  