-- Hedge Funds Increase Natural Gas Bets Before Price Decline: Energy Markets
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2010-11-16T19:54:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/hedge-funds-increase-natural-gas-bets-before-price-decline-energy-markets.html
Hedge funds raised bullish bets on
natural gas futures to a six-week high the day before prices
plunged on record inventories and warmer-than-expected weather.  The funds and other large speculators  increased  so-called
long positions, or wagers on rising prices, by 24 percent in the
seven days ended Nov. 9, according to the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s weekly Commitments of Traders report,
released yesterday.  Stockpiles of gas rose to 3.84  trillion cubic feet ,
surpassing last November’s total, the Energy Department said on
Nov. 10. Forecasters raised their temperature predictions the
next day, according to MDA Federal Inc.’s EarthSat Energy
Weather in Rockville, Maryland, helping send prices down more
than 6 percent in the next two trading sessions.  “If you have very high storage and the weather starts to
go against you, that’s not a very good thing, especially if
you’re long,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of research at IAF
Advisors in Houston.  Natural gas for December delivery rose to $4.21 per million
British thermal units, the highest level since Aug. 18, on the
New York Mercantile Exchange Nov. 9. Gas has fallen 9.3 percent
since then and settled at $3.818 today on the Nymex. Gas futures
have declined 31 percent this year.  Weather Models  The phenomenon known as La Nina is pushing up temperatures,
signaling warmer-than-forecast conditions next week in the
South, Midwest, and East, according to MDA Federal. Traders
typically focus on weather forecasts as the North American
winter approaches, speculating that lower temperatures will spur
heating demand, sapping supplies.  La Nina is characterized by unusually low temperatures in
the equatorial Pacific Ocean, and may lead to warmer-than-usual
conditions in the U.S. Southeast and cooler-than-normal weather
in the Northwest, according to the  National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration .  “The weather models have been incredibly volatile, which
is many times a characteristic of a La Nina winter,” Cooper
said. “Until we get more of winter under our belt, you’re going
to see continued wide price swings as those models vary.”  Demand for gas, which peaks during the cold-weather months,
drove futures above $6 per million Btu last January. About 52
percent of U.S. households use the fuel for heating, according
to the Energy Department.  Heating Demand  U.S. heating demand will average 18 percent below normal
through Nov. 22, said  David Salmon , a meteorologist with Weather
Derivatives in Belton, Missouri, in a report yesterday.  “Needs will lean toward normal by late this week, but
we’re now expected to swing considerably back toward below
normal again on through the weekend and into the first of next
week,” Salmon said. Last week’s forecasts “were way, way, way
out of bounds in calling for the extensive cold as they did.”  Net-long  positions held by what the CFTC categorizes as
managed money, including hedge funds, commodity pools and
commodity-trading advisers, in futures and options combined in
four natural-gas contracts increased by 8,960.5 futures
equivalents to 45,574.25 in the week ended Nov. 9, the highest
since the seven days ended Sept. 28, the CFTC report showed.  The measure of net longs includes an index of four
contracts adjusted to futures equivalents: Nymex natural gas
futures, Nymex Henry Hub Swaps, Nymex Henry Hub Penultimate
Swaps and ICE Henry Hub Swaps. Henry Hub, in Erath, Louisiana,
is the delivery point for Nymex futures, a benchmark price for
the fuel.  Gasoline Bets  In other markets, bullish, or long, bets on  gasoline  prices
rose 7 percent to 54,366 futures and options combined, the CFTC
data showed. Net-long bets on  heating oil  rose for the first
time in five weeks, advancing by 18,685, or 58 percent, to
51,137, the highest since October.  Net-long  positions in oil rose by 14,787 futures and
options combined, or 7.6 percent, to 208,915, the highest in at
least four years, according to the CFTC report.  The Commitments of Traders Report was delayed by one
business day because of the Nov. 11 Veteran’s Day holiday. It is
usually released each Friday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Asjylyn Loder  in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 