-- Education Chief Duncan Working With Boehner on Changes to `No Child' Law
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2010-11-16T22:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/education-chief-duncan-working-with-boehner-on-changes-to-no-child-law.html
 U.S. Education Secretary  Arne Duncan  said he is working with Representative  John Boehner ,
leader of the House Republicans, on changes to the “No Child
Left Behind” law for schools that was passed during former
President  George W. Bush ’s administration.  Duncan has talked with Boehner on education issues
including altering the law, which affects kindergarten through
12th-grade schools, the education secretary said today in
Washington at the  Wall Street Journal CEO Council . Boehner, from
Ohio, is expected to become speaker of the House after
Republicans take control in January.  The 2002 act, which requires states to measure student
achievement with standardized tests, contains perverse
incentives and fails to reward states and school systems for
successes, Duncan said. The secretary said he is working to
change the law with House Republicans including Representative
 John Kline  of Minnesota, who may become chairman of the House
Committee on Education and Labor in January.  “Where you have in place a law that is in many cases
hurting children, hurting the country, why would you want to
continue with that?” Duncan said in a question-and-answer
session at the conference.  No Child Left Behind mandates that students be proficient
in reading and math by 2014 on state standardized tests and that
schools show yearly progress toward that goal or risk losing
federal money. The Obama administration is proposing to give
schools more flexibility in showing progress.  “We want to reward excellence and growth,” Duncan said.
“We want to know how much students and states are improving
each year.”  Duncan also told business leaders that the best teachers
should be rewarded early in their careers.  “I think our great young teachers should be able to make
$100,000,” Duncan said. “I don’t think we can pay them
enough.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Lauerman  in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 