-- Fuld, Lehman Defendants to Get $100 Million Insurance
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2010-11-16T17:43:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/lehman-s-fuld-unnamed-defendants-to-get-100-million-insurance-payment.html
Richard Fuld ,  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. ’s former chief executive officer, will get $10
million from the defunct firm’s insurers as part of a program
paying officers and directors for the costs of lawsuits,
according to a court filing.  Insurers also will be asked to pay as much as $90 million
in costs for unidentified defendants in civil, criminal and
regulatory proceedings, Lehman said in yesterday’s filing in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  Lehman said the judge handling its case, the biggest
bankruptcy in U.S. history, has agreed to grant its requests
without a hearing when no one objects to them.  Separately, Lehman said no one objected to its plan to
restructure apartment-complex owner Archstone by converting an
additional $237 million of its loans to equity. Archstone has
required two previous bailouts from its bankers since 2009 amid
the real-estate slump. The last, a $5.2 billion restructuring,
is still being negotiated with lenders, Lehman said on Nov. 2.  Lehman also said no objections were filed to its request to
hedge foreign exchange risks on international investments. A
proposed order for the judge to sign shows it must get consent
from creditors and advisers for certain transactions involving
foreign assets currently valued at more than $75 million, down
from $100 million originally proposed.  Lehman asked the judge on Nov. 3 to let it hedge $1.8
billion in foreign exchange risks, granting its hedging partners
first priority liens on the collateral it posts.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Linda Sandler  in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 