-- Eisai Plans Sale of Cancer Medicine in the U.S. as Aricept Protection Ends
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2010-11-16T07:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/eisai-plans-sale-of-cancer-medicine-in-the-u-s-as-aricept-protection-ends.html
Eisai Co.  will start selling its new
breast-cancer treatment on Nov. 26 as its biggest drug, the
Aricept treatment for Alzheimer’s disease, loses patent
protection.  Eisai will seek regulatory approval for earlier use of the
eribulin mesylate drug in patients with breast cancer than
currently allowed, and aims for annual sales of more than $1
billion, Chief Executive Officer  Haruo Naito  said at a briefing
in Tokyo today. The medicine won U.S. approval yesterday and is
Eisai’s first original treatment in the world’s biggest drug
market in more than a decade.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration said it cleared
eribulin mesylate for women with advanced breast cancer after at
least two prior chemotherapy regimens. The drug approval, which
came more than six weeks earlier than the expected deadline,
will help Tokyo-based Eisai counter an expected revenue loss to
generic competition when the patent on Aricept expires Nov. 25.  “The approval came earlier than I thought it would,”
 Yasuhiro Nakazawa , an equities analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley Securities Co. in Tokyo, said by telephone. “The
potential of the drug depends on whether it gets approval to be
used as the first and second line of treatment.”  Eisai  rose 0.2 percent to 2,872 yen at the 3 p.m. close in
Tokyo trading, after climbing as much as 1.7 percent. The Nikkei
225 Stock Average dropped 0.3 percent.  The drug, to be sold under the brand name Halaven, will
compete with Basel, Switzerland-based  Roche Holding AG’s  Xeloda
and New York-based  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.’s  Ixempra.  ‘Clear Survival Benefit’  Breast cancer is expected to strike about 207,000 women in
the U.S. this year and cause almost 40,000 deaths, according to
the  National Cancer Institute . Halaven prolonged survival by
two-and-a-half months compared with current single-agent
therapies in a study of 762 women with advanced stages of the
disease.  “There are limited treatment options for women with
aggressive forms of late-stage breast cancer who have already
received other therapies,”  Richard Pazdur , director of the
FDA’s Office of Oncology Drug Products, said in a statement.
“Halaven shows a clear survival benefit and is an important new
option for women.”  The injectable medicine is a synthetic form of a substance
derived from a sea sponge. The drug is thought to work by
preventing tumor cells from growing, according to the FDA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net 
 Kanoko Matsuyama  in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  