-- Eisai Shares Rise After U.S. Marketing Approval of Breast-Cancer Treatment
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2010-11-16T01:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/eisai-shares-rise-after-u-s-marketing-approval-of-breast-cancer-treatment.html
Eisai Co.  rose to the highest in
more than a month in Tokyo trading after its new breast-cancer
treatment won U.S. marketing approval, making it the company’s
first original drug in the country in more than a decade.  Eisai  climbed  as much as 1.7 percent to 2,916 yen, the
highest intraday price since Oct. 8, and traded at 2,892 yen as
of 10:18 a.m. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average was little changed.  The Food and Drug Administration said yesterday it cleared
eribulin mesylate for women with advanced breast cancer after at
least two prior chemotherapy regimens, more than six weeks
earlier than the expected deadline for the review. The drug will
help Tokyo-based Eisai counter an expected loss of revenue to
generic competition when the patent on its top-selling Aricept
Alzheimer’s disease treatment expires Nov. 25.  “The approval came earlier than I thought it would,”
 Yasuhiro Nakazawa , an equities analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley Securities Co. in Tokyo, said in a phone interview today.
“The potential of the drug depends on whether it gets approvals
to be used as the first and second line of treatments.”  Eisai will sell the medicine under the brand name Halaven.
The drug will compete with Basel, Switzerland-based  Roche
Holding AG’s  Xeloda and New York-based  Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co.’s  Ixempra.  ‘Clear Survival Benefit’  Breast cancer is expected to strike about 207,000 women in
the U.S. this year and cause almost 40,000 deaths, according to
the  National Cancer Institute . Halaven prolonged survival by two
and a half months compared with current single-agent therapies
in a study of 762 women with advanced stages of the disease.  “There are limited treatment options for women with
aggressive forms of late-stage breast cancer who have already
received other therapies,”  Richard Pazdur , director of the
FDA’s Office of Oncology Drug Products, said in a statement.
“Halaven shows a clear survival benefit and is an important new
option for women.”  The injectable medicine is a synthetic form of a substance
derived from a sea sponge. The drug is thought to work by
preventing tumor cells from growing, according to the FDA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net 
 Kanoko Matsuyama  in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  