-- Emerging-Market Stocks Fall Fifth Day, Led by China, on Inflation Concern
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2010-11-16T15:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/emerging-market-stocks-fall-fifth-day-led-by-china-on-inflation-concern.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
fifth day, the longest losing streak since May, as concern
deepened that accelerating inflation will force central banks in
Asia to tighten monetary policy.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  declined 1.2 percent to
1,101.5 as of 10:26 a.m. in New York, heading for the lowest
closing level this month. The  Shanghai Composite Index  retreated
the most among world equity gauges, losing 4 percent, while
South Korea’s  Kospi Index  sank 0.8 percent. Russia’s Micex Index
slumped 1.6 percent and Brazil’s Bovespa Index dropped 1 percent
as oil and metals slid.  Chinese Central Bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said the
country is under “pressure” from capital inflows and a state-
run newspaper said price controls may be imposed to cool the
fastest inflation in two years. Korea boosted interest rates for
the second time this year and dropped a reference to keeping
borrowing costs “accommodative,” after price increases
accelerated past the central bank’s ceiling.  “While inflation still isn’t a major concern for the
Western world, it really is coming to the forefront in the
emerging markets,” said  Ivan Leung , Hong Kong-based chief
investment strategist at JPMorgan Private Bank, which oversees
$600 billion in client assets.  Record-low borrowing costs in the U.S. and Europe have
spurred investors to pour money into fast-growing developing
nations and commodities from corn to sugar to copper, lifting
inflation rates across Asia. China raised borrowing costs last
month for the first time since 2007.  Shanghai Tumble  The Shanghai Composite  index  fell to the lowest level in a
month. China will introduce measures to control rising food
prices, including price limits, the China Securities Journal
reported, citing an unidentified person. Corn prices in China
jumped to a record today and rice also reached an all-time high.  PetroChina Co.  and Jiangxi Copper Co. plunged more than 6
percent in China on concern tighter monetary policy will curb
oil and metals demand. China Vanke Co. slid to the lowest since
September, pacing declines by real-estate developers, after the
government ordered first-time foreign homebuyers to show proof
they don’t own other properties.  “Inflation is very high and the government acknowledges
that,”  Andy Xie , an independent economist, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in Hong Kong. “They will raise interest
rates soon.”  Bovespa Slides  The  Bovespa  stock index fell for a fifth day, the longest
losing stretch since August, on speculation quickening inflation
will prompt policy makers to raise interest rates.  Vale SA , the
world’s biggest iron ore producer whose biggest export market is
China, slid 1.5 percent.  Lojas Americanas SA  tumbled 3.9
percent, leading a drop for retailers after a weekly central
bank survey showed economists expect rising rates next year.  The  Bank of Korea  raised the  seven-day repurchase rate  by
0.25 percentage point to 2.5 percent. Six of 13 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted the decision, with the rest
seeing no change. Governor Kim Choong Soo raised the rate from a
record-low 2 percent in June.  Asian currencies strengthened after the Bank of Korea’s
interest-rate decision. The South Korean won advanced 0.2
percent against the dollar and the Malaysian ringgit gained 0.3
percent, while the Philippine peso appreciated 0.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Taipei at   Wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  