-- Emerging Markets ETF Put Trading Jumps to 5-Month High in U.S.
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-11-16T22:31:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/emerging-markets-etf-put-trading-jumps-to-5-month-high-in-u-s-.html
Trading of bearish emerging-market
stock  options  jumped to a five-month high in the U.S. yesterday
as investors boosted buying of the contracts to protect against
losses in the shares amid a global equity retreat.  More than 465,000 puts to sell shares of the iShares MSCI
Emerging Markets  exchange-traded fund  changed hands, 3.6 times
the four-week average and triple the number of calls to buy. The
 most-active contracts  were December $44 puts, which rose 58
percent and accounted for a quarter of put trades. The ETF
tracking 718 stocks in 22 developing nations fell the most in
almost a month, losing 2.6 percent to $45.17 as of the close in
New York. It hasn’t closed below $44 since Sept. 23.  “People are scrambling for hedges or rolling their
protection lower,” said  Alec Levine , a strategist at
Wallachbeth Capital LLC in New York. “Everyone ran for the
exits at the same time. When markets get defensive, emerging
markets correct disproportionately.”  Emerging-market stocks fell for a fifth session yesterday,
the longest losing streak since May, as concern deepened that
accelerating inflation will force central banks in Asia to
tighten monetary policy. The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index 
declined 1.3 percent to 1,100.57, the lowest closing level this
month.  Puts vs. Calls  The  total number  of existing puts on the ETF had risen to a
14-month high of 3.78 million before yesterday, compared with an
open interest of 2.33 million for calls. The increase for puts
lifted  the ratio  of bearish contracts to bullish ones to 1.62-
to-1, the highest since June.  “The broad theme has been cautious trading, most likely by
investors hedging their downside exposure,”  Mike Thurow , a
senior options strategist at Susquehanna Financial Group LLP in
Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania, said yesterday. “That’s been going
on at least for the past week, and it’s at its height today.
With November options expiring this week, investors are
extending their positions into December.”  The fund’s December $44 puts were the seventh most-active
ETF contracts in U.S. trading, and they were the most-active
after SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust options.  The session’s biggest trade was the purchase of 60,000 each
of the fund’s December $44 and $45 puts by an investor who also
sold their existing holding of 60,000 December $47 puts, Thurow
and Levine said. The trade accounted for more than a third of
all put volume and would give the right to sell 12 million
shares if the stock falls below both strikes.  Hedging  “Traders are either betting on a sharp selloff in the
underlying or they are hedging long exposure in the
underlying,” said  Steve Oh , an ETF sales trader at Newedge
Group in New York. Most of the accumulation in options on the
ETF has been in out-of-the money puts expiring in November and
December, he said.  Chinese Central Bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said the
country is under “pressure” from capital inflows and a state-
run newspaper said price controls may be imposed to cool the
fastest inflation in two years. Korea boosted interest rates for
the second time this year and dropped a reference to keeping
borrowing costs “accommodative,” after price increases
accelerated past the central bank’s ceiling.  The  Shanghai Composite Index  fell to the lowest in a month,
losing 4 percent, while South Korea’s  Kospi Index  sank 0.8
percent. Russia’s Micex Index slumped 1.9 percent and Brazil’s
Bovespa Index dropped 1.7 percent as oil fell to a two-week low
and metals slid. 