-- Endo Plans Debt After Most Sales in Six Weeks: New Issue Alert
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-11-16T10:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/endo-pharmaceuticals-to-borrow-amid-most-sales-in-6-weeks-new-issue-alert.html
Endo Pharmaceuticals Holdings Inc. ,
the maker of pain-management medication including Percocet and
Lidoderm, is marketing debt after the busiest stretch of
corporate bond sales in six weeks.  Endo plans to sell $400 million of senior unsecured notes
due 2020, the Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania-based company said
yesterday in a statement distributed by PR Newswire. It’s the
company’s first fixed-rate bond sale, an Endo spokesman said in
an e-mail yesterday.  Procter & Gamble Co ., the world’s largest consumer-products
company, and  Prudential Financial Inc. , the second-biggest U.S.
life insurer after MetLife Inc., were among companies that sold
$6.63 billion of bonds yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That follows $36.1 billion of issuance last week, the
most since the five days ended Oct. 1, when corporations sold
$37.7 billion of debt, Bloomberg data show.  The extra yield investors demand to own speculative-grade
corporate bonds instead of Treasuries narrowed 8 basis points to
567 basis points yesterday, while absolute yields rose to 7.69
percent from 7.66 percent, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II index.  High-yield debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Endo Acquisition  Proceeds from Endo’s bonds will help finance the company’s
 acquisition  of Qualitest Pharmaceuticals Inc., it said in the
statement. Endo said in September it was purchasing Qualitest, a
closely-held generic drugmaker, for about $1.2 billion in cash.  The company has convertible notes outstanding that mature
in April 2015, Bloomberg data show. It hasn’t issued fixed-rate
debt under the Endo name, the company spokesman said.  Spreads on investment-grade corporate bonds were unchanged
at 176 basis points and yields rose 11 basis points to 3.86
percent, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S.
Corporate Master Index.  The following is a description of at least $8.08 billion of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  Investment Grade  TELEPHONE & DATA SYSTEMS INC., a telecommunications
services provider, plans to sell $200 million of 49-year notes
that will be non-callable for five years, according to a person
familiar with the transaction. The Chicago-based company’s debt
may yield 6.875 percent to 7 percent, said the person, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. The bonds
may be rated Baa2 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by
Standard & Poor’s, the person said. Proceeds will be used to
redeem the company’s 7.6 percent notes due in 2041, according a
regulatory filing that didn’t specify the size, timing or
maturity of the sale.  PACIFIC GAS & ELECTRIC CO., a unit of  PG&E Corp. , plans to
sell $500 million of senior unsecured notes through the
reopening of two previous issues, according to a person familiar
with the transaction. The utility plans to sell $250 million
each of 3.5 percent debt maturing in October 2020 that may yield
90 basis points more than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries and
5.4 percent notes due in January 2040 that may pay a spread of
118 basis points over the benchmarks, said the person, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. The bonds
are rated A3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB+ by Standard &
Poor’s, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  FIRST GULF BANK PJSC plans to sell five-year dollar-
denominated bonds that may yield between 3.25 percent and 3.5
percent, said three people familiar with the transaction, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. BNP Paribas
SA, Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc and
National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC are arranging meetings with
investors, two people said on Nov. 1. The Abu Dhabi-based lender
is rated A2 by Moody’s.  TRANSNET LTD., South Africa’s state-owned ports, rail and
pipeline operator, said it may sell $1 billion worth of bonds in
international markets to pay for expansion. Transnet has 35.2
billion rand ($5 billion) of debt outstanding.  Not Rated  CYRELA BRAZIL REALTY SA EMPREENDIMENTOS E PARTICIPACOES ,
Brazil’s biggest homebuilder, hired Banco do Brasil SA, Credit
Suisse Group AG, Itau Unibanco Holding SA and Morgan Stanley to
arrange bond investor meetings, according to a person familiar
with the matter. Cyrela will meet with investors in Asia, Europe
and the U.S., said the person, who declined to be identified
because the conversations are private.  STERICYCLE INC. plans to issue $175 million of seven-year,
3.89 percent notes and $225 million of 10-year, 4.47 percent
debt after receiving informal commitments from 22 institutional
investors to buy the securities, it said in a statement
distributed by Business Wire.  High Yield  BRIGHTSTAR CORP., a distributor of wireless communication
devices, plans to sell $250 million of six-year senior notes
that are non-callable for three years, according to a person
familiar with the transaction. The company plans to use proceeds
to refinance existing debt, said the person, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set. Jeffries Group Inc.,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Barclays Plc and
Credit Suisse Group AG are managing the sale, the person said.  DELONG HOLDINGS LTD., a Singapore-based steel trader, hired
Credit Suisse Group AG to help it organize meetings with
investors ahead of an international sale of guaranteed senior
notes. Money raised will be used to redeem 5 percent convertible
bonds due 2012, to repay bank loans and for acquisitions
relating to iron ore and other raw materials used by the steel
industry, the company said in a statement to Singapore’s stock
exchange. The dollar-denominated notes were assigned a
provisional rating of B3 by Moody’s Investors Service, the
ratings company said in a note.  FLAKEBOARD CO., the Canadian producer of fiberboard and
particleboard used to build furniture and countertops, plans to
sell $225 million of senior secured notes maturing in 2017, S&P
said in a statement. The ratings company grades the proposed
U.S. dollar-denominated debt as B, according to the statement.  ENDO PHARMACEUTICALS HOLDINGS INC., the maker of pain-
management medication including Percocet and Lidoderm, plans to
sell $400 million of senior unsecured notes due 2020, according
to a company statement. It would be the Chadds Ford,
Pennsylvania-based company’s first fixed-rate bond sale, an Endo
spokesman said in an e-mail. Proceeds will be used to help
finance the company’s  acquisition  of Qualitest Pharmaceuticals
Inc., according to the statement.  GYMBOREE CORP., the children’s clothing retailer being
purchased by Bain Capital LLC, plans to sell $400 million of
eight-year notes through Giraffe Acquisition Corp., according to
a person familiar with the transaction. Proceeds will be added
to borrowings under a senior secured credit line and an equity
contribution to pay for Gymboree’s acquisition, said the person,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  PAETEC HOLDINGS CORP., the telecommunications company that
is buying Cavalier Telephone Corp., plans to sell $420 million
of senior notes due 2018 through its Paetec Escrow Corp. unit,
it said in a statement distributed by Business Wire. Proceeds
will be released to the parent company after the acquisition of
Cavalier Telephone closes, according to the statement. Proceeds
will be used along with cash on hand from both companies to help
fund the purchase, according to the statement.  PERFORMANCE FOOD GROUP INC., the private-equity-owned food
and food-related product distributor, plans to sell $550 million
of senior notes due in 2017, according to a person familiar with
the transaction. Credit Suisse Group AG, Wells Fargo & Co., Bank
of America Corp. and Macquarie Group Ltd. are managing the sale,
according to the person, who declined to be identified because
terms aren’t set.  SHIP FINANCE INTERNATIONAL LTD. plans to sell $400 million
of senior notes due in 2020, the owner of crude-oil tankers and
dry-bulk carriers said in a regulatory filing. Proceeds may be
used to repay debt, including a tender offer for the Hamilton,
Bermuda-based company’s existing senior notes due in 2013, and
for general corporate purposes, according to the filing.
Jefferies Group Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are managing
the sale, the filing said.  VIETNAM NATIONAL COAL-MINERAL INDUSTRIES GROUP plans to
sell 10-year dollar bonds after meetings with investors in Asia,
Europe and the U.S. starting on Nov. 15, said a person familiar
with the transaction. Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd., Credit Agricole CIB and Citigroup Inc. were hired to
manage the sale, said the person, who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set. The company, also known as Vinacomin,
is rated Ba3 at Moody’s and BB at S&P.  EXTERRAN HOLDINGS INC., a provider of natural gas
compression services, plans to sell $350 million of senior notes
maturing in 2018, it said in a Nov. 12 statement distributed by
Business Wire. Proceeds from the privately placed notes may be
used to repay borrowings under the Houston-based company’s
asset-backed securitization facility and its senior secured
credit line, according to the statement.  SPENCER SPIRIT HOLDINGS INC., the mall-based retailer of
accessory and Halloween items, plans to sell $150 million of
senior-secured notes due in 2016, according to a person familiar
with the transaction. Proceeds may be used to repay existing
debt and make a distribution to shareholders, said the person,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. Wells
Fargo & Co. and UBS AG are managing the sale, the person said.  RAIN CII CARBON LLC and CII Carbon Corp. plan to sell $400
million of senior secured notes, according to a person familiar
with the transaction. Proceeds may be used to repay debt, said
the person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set. Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Jefferies
Group Inc. are managing the offering for the units of Rain
Commodities Ltd. of Hyderabad, India, the person said.  CLUBCORP INC., an owner and operator of golf courses,
country clubs and resorts, plans to sell $415 million of senior
unsecured notes maturing in 2018, according to a person familiar
with the transaction. The debt will be non-callable for four
years, said the person, who declined to be identified because
terms aren’t set. Citigroup Inc. is managing the offering, the
person said.  NORTEK INC., a manufacturer of building products for
residential and commercial applications, plans to sell $300
million of senior notes maturing in October 2018, the company
said in a statement distributed by PR Newswire. Proceeds may be
used to repurchase a portion of Nortek’s outstanding 11 percent
senior secured notes due in 2013 and for general corporate
purposes, which includes acquisitions, according to the
statement.  THERMADYNE HOLDINGS CORP., the maker of welding products
that’s the target of a leveraged buyout by Irving Place Capital,
plans to sell $250 million of senior secured seven-year notes,
according to a person familiar with the transaction. The debt,
will be non-callable for three years, said the person, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. Proceeds
will be used to fund the LBO, the person said.  COVANTA HOLDING CORP., the developer of waste-to-energy
plants, plans to sell $400 million of senior notes maturing in
2020, it said in a Nov. 9 regulatory filing. Proceeds may be
used to finance tender offers for outstanding debt and for
general corporate purposes, according to the filing.  PETCO ANIMAL SUPPLIES INC., the pet-products and services
retailer taken private in a 2006 buyout, plans to sell $500
million of senior unsecured eight-year notes, according to a
person familiar with the transaction, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  BURLINGTON COAT FACTORY WAREHOUSE CORP., the Bain Capital
LLC-owned purveyor of discount apparel, plans to sell $500
million of eight-year senior unsecured notes to refinance high-
coupon debt and fund a dividend. Proceeds may be used to repay
the company’s existing term loan facility, fund a tender offer
for outstanding debt and pay a dividend to equity holders, the
company said in a Nov. 3 statement distributed by Business Wire.  PT ENERGI MEGA PERSADA , Indonesia’s second-biggest listed
oil company, hired Nomura Holdings Inc. to help it with a dollar
bond sale, according to a person familiar with the matter who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  SI ORGANIZATION INC., the Lockheed Martin Corp. unit
formerly known as Enterprise Integration Group, may sell $175
million of senior subordinated notes, according to Standard &
Poor’s. Proceeds may be used with $340 million of bank debt and
$370 million of new common stock to pay for its acquisition by
Veritas Capital, S&P said.  TRANSDIGM GROUP INC., the aircraft-components manufacturer
that’s buying rival supplier McKechnie Aerospace Holdings Inc.,
plans to sell $780 million of senior subordinated notes to help
fund the acquisition, the Cleveland-based company said in a
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company
is also planning a $900 million term loan and a $300 million
revolving credit line, according to the filing. The notes were
rated B3 by Moody’s.  WII COMPONENTS INC., the manufacturer of wood cabinet doors
owned by Behrman Capital LP, plans to sell $115 million of
senior secured five-year notes, the company said in an Oct. 25
statement distributed by Business Wire. The notes may be used to
help fund a tender for outstanding 10 percent senior securities
due 2012, according to the statement. S&P assigned the debt a
grade of B-, it said in a statement.  Offerings in Pipeline  RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORP., India’s state-controlled
lender to power projects, hired Credit Agricole CIB, Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc and Standard Chartered Plc to sell $500
million of bonds. Rural Electrification aims to price 5.5-year
notes to yield between 195 basis points and 200 basis points
more than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries Finance Director Hari
Das Khunteta said in a telephone interview from New Delhi on
Nov. 10.  YUZHOU PROPERTIES CO.  plans to sell bonds denominated in
U.S. dollars, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. Bank of China Ltd., Nomura Holdings Inc. and Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc are arranging meetings with investors
in Asia, Europe and the U.S., said the person, who asked not to
be identified because the details are private.  JORDAN is selling $750 million of five-year bonds that will
be priced to yield 4.125 percent, according to two people with
knowledge of the sale. Arab Bank Plc, Credit Suisse Group AG,
HSBC Holdings Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are managing the
sale.  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. , the bailed-out insurer,
plans to raise money in a debt sale as the company moves toward
independence from the U.S. government, it said in a regulatory
filing.  PTT EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION PCL, Thailand’s only listed
oil and gas explorer, plans to sell bonds denominated in U.S.
dollars, according to a person familiar with the transaction.
PTT Exploration hired Barclays Plc to manage the sale, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.
Barclays is arranging a U.S. dollar-denominated medium-term note
program for the company, the person said.  INTERNATIONAL PETROLEUM INVESTMENT CO. plans to meet bond
investors in the United Arab Emirates, according to two people
with knowledge of the marketing. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Bank
of America Corp., HSBC Holdings Plc, National Bank of Abu Dhabi,
Standard Chartered Bank and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc are
arranging the meetings, said the people, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  QATAR NATIONAL BANK may sell five-year dollar-denominated
bonds, according to two people with knowledge of the
transaction. The debt may yield in the 200 basis-point area more
than the benchmark mid-swap rate, said the people, who declined
to be identified because terms aren’t set. Barclays Capital, BNP
Paribas SA, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Standard Chartered Bank
will manage the issue with QNB Capital, the people said.  PTA BANK , or Eastern and Southern African Trade and
Development Bank, hired HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard Bank
Group Ltd. to arrange bond investor meetings in Europe and Asia,
according to two people with knowledge of the sale. The meetings
will be held in Hong Kong, Singapore, Zurich, Geneva and London,
said the people, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set. The company may sell dollar bonds after the
meetings, the people said.  MAQUINARIA ESPECIALIZADA MXO TRUST , a special-purpose
company expected to provide construction machinery services to
Corporacion GEO SAB de CV, hired Banco Santander SA to arrange
bond investor meetings, according to a person with knowledge of
the sale. A dollar bond sale may follow the meetings, to be held
in London, Boston, New York and Los Angeles, said the person,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  CREDIT BANK OF MOSCOW plans to sell five-year dollar bonds,
according to a person familiar with the transaction. The sale of
Reg S securities is being arranged by Commerzbank AG, ING Groep
NV and Raiffeisen Bank International, the banker said.  DOHA BANK QSC, Qatar’s third-largest bank, hired Morgan
Stanley and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to manage a planned $500
million bond sale, its chief executive officer said. The
offering, announced on the Qatar Exchange website, will be
marketed to investors in the U.S., Europe and the Middle East,
 Raghavan Seetharaman  said in an Oct. 20 telephone interview.  BELARUS may sell debt in the U.S. and Asia, according to
Finance Minister Andrei Kharkovets. “We will undoubtedly enter
the Asian and the American markets,” Kharkovets said in an Oct.
15 interview in Moscow, declining to comment on the timing of
possible sales.  GEORGIAN RAILWAY LLC, the former Soviet republic’s state-
owned rail company, is preparing a bond roadshow in the U.S.,
Giorgi Gagnidze, the company’s financial director, said in
comments broadcast on Rustavi-2 television.  ICICI BANK LTD., India’s second-largest lender, hired
Barclays Capital, Citigroup Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG to sell as
much as $1 billion of bonds with maturities between five and 10
years, according to three people familiar with the offering.
India’s second-biggest lender is rated Ba1 by Moody’s and BBB-by
S&P.  AL BARAKA BANK EGYPT ESC, a unit of Bahrain-based  Albaraka
Banking Group , may sell dollar-denominated Islamic bonds in the
second half of 2011, the bank’s chairman said Sept. 29. The bank
has not decided on the size of the bond, he said.  TURKIYE IS BANKASI AS  hired JPMorgan Chase & Co., the Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc, Standard Bank Plc and Standard Chartered
to help find buyers for a planned bond sale during meetings in
the U.S. and Europe. Isbank made the announcement to the
Istanbul Stock Exchange after the market regulator approved a
sale of 1.45 billion liras ($1.03 billion) of bonds by the bank.
Isbank said the sale will be in dollars.  AEGIS LTD., an outsourcing unit of Essar Group, may sell
the first non-convertible dollar bonds from an Indian
information technology company. The company, which bought
PeopleSupport Inc. in 2008, may sell its bonds as part of a
financing package that would include a loan of as much as $350
million to consolidate debt, Chief Financial Officer C.M. Sharma
said.  GATX CORP ., a Chicago-based company that leases railroad
cars and other equipment, filed a shelf registration with the
Securities and Exchange Commission to sell debt securities and
pass-through certificates. The debt securities may be senior or
subordinated, according to the filing.  JSW STEEL LTD , India’s third-largest steelmaker, plans to
sell dollar bonds for the first time in three years and as
rupee-denominated finance costs rise. JSW has applied for credit
ratings before a possible offshore bond sale to help build a 200
billion rupee ($4.3 billion) steel and power plant in West
Bengal, Chief Financial Officer  Seshagiri Rao  said.  ARGENTINA may sell $1 billion of bonds due in 2017, El
Cronista newspaper reported, without saying how it obtained the
information. The government is also planning to offer an
exchange for dollar bonds due in 2011 and 2012, the Buenos
Aires-based publication said.  RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORP., India’s state-owned lender to
power projects, may sell as much as $300 million of bonds in
U.S. dollars, Finance Director  Hari Das Khunteta  said in a
telephone interview. Rural Electrification plans to raise $500
million from debt sales in the year ending March 31, he had said
on April 16.  POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN INC. , the world’s
largest fertilizer company by capacity, filed a registration
statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for
$2 billion of debt securities.  INDONESIA plans to name three banks to help it sell about
$650 million of Islamic bonds,  Dahlan Siamat , director for
Islamic financing at the finance ministry, said in a telephone
interview in Jakarta. The government sold its first
international Islamic dollar bonds in April 2009.  URUGUAY may sell as much as $1 billion of bonds in 2011,
including $500 million of dollar-denominated debt,  Carlos Steneri , director of public credit at Uruguay’s Ministry of
Economy and Finance, said June 3 at a Latin Finance conference
in London. The dollar-denominated bonds may have a maturity of
20 years or more, Steneri said.  MALAYSIA plans to raise about $1 billion from its first
sale of conventional dollar bonds in eight years after drawing
bids for five times the Islamic debt it offered, a finance
ministry official said. The government may hire banks including
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and HSBC Holdings Plc to arrange the
sale by Sept. 30, said the official, who declined to be named as
the discussions are private. Malaysia raised $1.25 billion from
a Shariah-compliant dollar bond on May 27. Malaysia is rated A3
by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  GHANA is considering selling its second dollar bond in 2011
to tap investor demand as the start-up of oil production boosts
economic growth and narrows the budget deficit, Deputy Finance
Minister  Fifi Kwetey  said. The government was considering a
“no-deal roadshow” to gauge international investors’ appetite,
Kwetey said in a May 26 interview in Abidjan. Ghana sold its
first global bond in 2007, raising $750 million to help fund the
construction of roads and power plants.  ANGOLA received credit ratings from Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch
Ratings that put it on par with Nigeria, Lebanon and Belarus,
and paved the way for a planned sale of international bonds. The
southern African nation’s creditworthiness was rated at B+ by
S&P and Fitch, four levels below investment grade. Moody’s
assigned an equivalent ranking of B1.  MONGOLIA plans to raise $500 million selling bonds in 2010
and the remainder of a planned $1.2 billion program will be sold
according to market conditions,  Batbayar Balgan , director
general of the financial and economic policy department of
Mongolia, said at a forum in Ulan Bator on June 16. The
government scaled back its plans for global bond sales after
Europe’s debt crisis drove up borrowing costs. Investment banks
are advising Mongolia to issue debt with maturities of 5 years
to 10 years, Finance Minister Sangajav Bayartsogt said in a Feb.
9 interview. The securities may yield 8 percent to 11 percent,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 