-- Enterprise Inns Full-Year Profit Soars as Disposals Outweigh Sales Decline
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2010-11-16T08:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/enterprise-inns-full-year-profit-soars-as-disposals-outweigh-sales-decline.html
Enterprise Inns Plc, the U.K.’s
second-biggest pub owner, said full-year profit more than
quadrupled as it cut costs and sold off less profitable outlets.  Net income was 26 million pounds ($41.7 million), in the
year ended Sept. 30, compared with 6 million pounds a year
earlier, the Solihull, England-based company said in a
Regulatory News Service statement today. Enterprise made a
profit of 52 million pounds from disposals, while revenue
declined 7.3 percent to 758 million pounds.  “The economic environment is set to remain challenging,”
Chief Executive Officer Ted Tuppen said in the statement. “We
do not underestimate the impact of the government’s austerity
measures and fiscal tightening which will affect both our
licensees and their customers.”  U.K. pub profits have been hit by the recession, smoking
ban and discounted beer in supermarkets. The U.K.’s coalition
government last month outlined a package of spending cuts and
tax rises aimed at reducing a budget deficit as Britain emerges
from its worst recession since World War II. In 2009 pubs closed
at a rate of 40 a week, according to the British Beer and Pub
Association.  Enterprise disposed of 579 ‘non-core’ pubs during the year,
generating proceeds of 166 million pounds and a 21 million-pound
profit, net of disposal cost, the company said in today’s
statement. The company said it expects the level of disposals to
be at a similar level in the coming year.  The cost of sales fell 4.6 percent to 314 million pounds,
while finance costs dropped to 229 million pounds from 267
million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  