-- Merkel Resilient in Face of European, ECB Opposition to Debt-Crisis Plan
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2010-11-16T11:02:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/merkel-resilient-in-face-of-european-ecb-opposition-to-debt-crisis-plan.html
Germany sees forcing investors to
take a loss in future euro-area debt crises as a red line and
won’t back down in the face of opposition from the European
Central Bank and some governments, Deputy Finance Minister
 Steffen Kampeter  said.  Finance ministers begin talks in Brussels today on a
permanent crisis-resolution system to replace the 750 billion-
euro ($1 trillion) rescue fund set up in May once its mandate
expires in 2013. Germany won’t accept any deal that doesn’t
involve investors, Kampeter said late yesterday in an interview
in Karlsruhe, southwestern Germany.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government “stands full-square
behind involving private investors in bailouts” from 2013, said
Kampeter. The details of investor write-offs “still have to be
worked out, including their scope.”  Merkel clashed over the safety net with ECB President  Jean- Claude Trichet , who said that forcing euro-area bondholders to
accept losses risked undermining confidence as countries such as
Ireland and Portugal struggle to slash their deficits. Spanish
Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  said Nov. 12 that he
opposed Merkel’s plan, so “it won’t be easy” for her to win
over fellow EU leaders.  ‘Don’t Underestimate Germany’  “We got what we were looking for at the last EU summit,”
when leaders backed Merkel’s plan to rewrite the bloc’s treaties
to establish a permanent crisis mechanism, said Kampeter.
“Don’t underestimate Germany on this.”  Merkel has shifted her tone on the crisis mechanism as bond
yields of indebted euro-area nations have soared since she won
EU agreement on Oct. 29 to consider her plans. In a speech to a
party convention of her Christian Democratic Union in Karlsruhe
yesterday, Merkel suggested that an Irish bailout may be the
price of ensuring the euro’s stability.  The euro climbed against the dollar today, gaining 0.2
percent to $1.3611 at 11:02 a.m. in Berlin.  “If the euro fails, then Europe fails,” Merkel told CDU
delegates. Germany’s task is to “anchor a new stability culture
in Europe” to prevent a repeat of the debt crisis that spread
from Greece.  Germany’s bargaining position -- making bondholders pay for
future debt crises and locking it in by changing EU treaties --
was presented in a “confusing” way that had a “very negative
effect on markets,”  Henrik Enderlein , a political economist at
the Hertie School of Governance in Berlin, said in a phone
interview.  Germany is now pushing Ireland to take aid in a bid to calm
the markets in an “alliance” with the Netherlands, whose banks
hold Irish debt, and the ECB, which is reluctant to support
euro-area states by buying their bonds, he said.  The Germans “almost have to take a schizophrenic
position,” Enderlein said. “On the one hand, they don’t want
to give a blank check” for future bailouts. “On the other
hand, they don’t want to put the euro at risk.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  in Karlsruhe, Germany at  tczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Parkin  in Karlsruhe, Germany at  bparkin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling in Paris at  jhertling@bloomberg.net  