-- Ethics Panel to Consider Whether Representative Rangel Broke House Rules
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2010-11-16T16:32:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/ethics-panel-to-consider-whether-representative-rangel-broke-house-rules.html
A congressional ethics panel’s
deliberations on whether U.S. Representative  Charles Rangel 
broke House rules entered a second day today.  The four Democrats and four Republicans on the House ethics
subcommittee resumed discussions behind closed doors on whether
the evidence presented by their counsel yesterday adds up to a
violation of House rules. The panel heard the evidence, in a
hearing boycotted by Rangel, after rejecting his request for a
postponement to give him time to hire a new lawyer.  “Fifty years of public service is on the line,” Rangel
said yesterday. “I truly believe that I’m not being treated
fairly and that history will dictate that, notwithstanding the
political calendar, I am entitled to a lawyer during this
proceeding.”  The committee in July accused Rangel of 13 violations of
House rules, including improperly soliciting donations to help
finance a City College of New York academic center named for
him, filing erroneous financial-disclosure statements and
misusing rent-controlled apartments in Manhattan.  The subcommittee is to make a recommendation to the full
10-member House ethics panel, which then would decide on
possible punishment. That could range from a rebuke by letter,
to a public reprimand on the House floor, to expulsion.  Rangel, in seeking a postponement of the hearing, said his
previous lawyers dropped him last month after being paid $2
million in legal fees. Rangel said he didn’t have the money to
continue paying the firm and needed to set up a legal defense
fund to raise cash.  Left the Room  He told the panel he wouldn’t respond to the charges
against him or participate in the hearing without an attorney.
Rangel left the room as the subcommittee members adjourned to
meet in closed session to consider the request for a
postponement. He didn’t return when the subcommittee members
rejected his request and reconvened.  Later, Rangel issued a  statement  that said, “They can do
what they will with me because they have the power and I have no
real chance of fighting back.”  Even as the case proceeded, some subcommittee members said
it was wrong for Rangel’s lawyers to withdraw weeks before the
hearing.  “If this was a court of law, a judge would not permit that
to happen,” said Representative  Peter Welch , a Vermont
Democrat.  Committee chief counsel Blake Chisam presented evidence on
the allegations against Rangel to the panel.  “In all of your investigation of this matter, did you see
any evidence of personal financial benefit or corruption?”
Representative  G.K. Butterfield , a North Carolina Democrat,
asked Chisam.  ‘I Do Not’  “Do I believe, based on this record, that Congressman
Rangel took steps to enrich himself based on his position in
Congress? I do not,” Chisam responded.  Rangel “was overzealous in many of the things that he
did,” Chisam said, citing the charges that Rangel used
congressional stationery and staff members in seeking donations
for the academic center.  ‘Sloppy’ Finances  Chisam also said Rangel was “sloppy in his personal
finances.”  Representative  Mike Conaway , a Texas Republican, asked the
committee’s lawyer whether he was saying “that sloppiness is a
defense?”  “I don’t believe it’s a defense at all,” Chisam said.
“In fact, I believe that it’s a violation of the rule.”  Rangel, 80, took to the House floor Aug. 10 to declare that
he wouldn’t resign his seat and instead wanted the committee to
“expedite” its hearing.  He won a 21st House term Nov. 2 after fending off
challenges from five candidates in New York’s Sept. 14
Democratic primary. He garnered 80 percent of the general
election vote in his Harlem-based district.  Rangel stepped aside as chairman of the  Ways and Means
Committee  in March after the ethics panel said he broke House
rules by accepting corporate-sponsored travel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 