-- Irish Aid Talks Stop Short of Bailout as EU Lauds Austerity
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2010-11-17T09:22:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/eu-finance-ministers-voice-confidence-in-ireland-stop-short-of-aid-accord.html
European finance ministers started
work on possible aid for Ireland’s  debt-laden banks , stopping
short of an immediate bailout package and risking a setback in
bond markets.  Finance chiefs from the 16-country euro area lauded
Ireland’s budget cuts, echoing the rhetorical support offered in
the early stages of Greece’s debt trauma before a rescue became
necessary. Ireland said it won’t plead for money when European
and International Monetary Fund officials arrive in Dublin
tomorrow to begin talks on the banking system’s needs.  “If banking problems are too big for this small country to
manage, Europe has made it clear they’ll help,” Irish Finance
Minister  Brian Lenihan  told state broadcaster RTE today before
meetings of European finance ministers wrap up in Brussels.  As Europe struggled to present a united front to stem the
widening debt crisis, Britain said it would back support for
Ireland, abandoning a hands-off policy toward the  euro region  to
prevent Irish bank woes from spilling over into the closely
connected U.K. market.  In a potential blow to Ireland, LCH Clearnet Ltd. raised
the margin requirement for Irish bond trading to 30 percent of
net positions, making it more expensive to buy Irish securities.  Irish bonds slipped for a second day, pushing the 10-year
yield up 4 basis points to 8.50 percent. The  extra yield  over
German bunds rose 2 basis points to 564 basis points. The
spread, a measure of the risk of investing in Ireland, peaked at
646 basis points on Nov. 11.  Banking Focus  The Dublin consultations with the ECB,  European Commission 
and IMF will “see if the state is able to cover the needs of
the banking sector,” Belgian Finance Minister  Didier Reynders 
told reporters today. “If that’s not the case, there will
probably have to be a European intervention.”  Such a package could come together quickly, the officials
said. “Is it six months or a few days away? I’d say it’s closer
to days,” French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said.  Ministers refused to speculate about Ireland’s financial
needs, estimated by Barclays Capital at about 80 billion euros
($108 billion).  Klaus Regling , manager of the rescue facility,
said the EU could raise the money in five to eight working days.  Britain, which didn’t contribute to the 860 billion euros
in loans and pledges in the wake of the Greek crisis, “stands
ready to support Ireland,” U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  said today in Brussels.  Stock Losses  Ireland’s five-member  ISEQ Financial Index  of banking
stocks is now worth 2 percent of the peak valuation reached in
February 2007. Officials put the cost of cleaning up the banking
system as high as 50 billion euros, equal to about a third of
Ireland’s economic output.  To boost confidence, Lenihan may release the 2011 budget
before a planned Dec. 7 publication date and will unveil a four-
year deficit-cutting plan next week.  Steps already taken to salvage Ireland’s banking system,
which is increasingly reliant on ECB funding, will billow the
deficit to 32 percent of gross domestic product in 2010. That’s
a record in the 12-year history of the euro and more than 10
times the bloc’s 3 percent limit.  Investors watched the EU’s handling of Ireland for clues to
the fate of Portugal and Spain, two other countries forced by
the EU to impose spending cuts to rein in excessive deficits.  A declaration released late yesterday mirrored a Feb. 11
show of support for Greece, which ushered in three months of
politicking -- centered on Germany’s reluctance to part with
taxpayer money -- before the bloc crafted a 110 billion-euro
rescue formula.  ‘On Track’  Separate statements by the ministers saluted Portugal’s
“appropriate measures” to meet deficit-cutting targets and
said  Greece  is “broadly on track” with its austerity plans.  German demands prompted the latest phase in the crisis,
when EU leaders on Oct. 29 agreed to consider German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s demand for a crisis-resolution mechanism that
forces bondholders to share the cost of future bailouts.  That pledge triggered 13 straight days of losses in the
Irish bond market and dragged down Portuguese, Greek and Spanish
securities. To stem the damage, Merkel on Nov. 12 signed up to a
five-country declaration that exempts bonds now on the market
from a restructuring that could be imposed under a permanent
system to be created by 2013.  Merkel Fallout  Merkel wants to penalize bondholders for betting against
fiscally unsound governments after the EU’s temporary rescue
fund runs out in 2013. In Paris on Nov. 15, Greek Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  blamed her for creating a  “self-fulfilling
prophecy”  that hurt peripheral countries.  The Greek criticism drew a German rebuke yesterday. “When
I heard the comments by the Greek prime minister I thought, with
all due respect, that Greece has enjoyed a lot of European and
German solidarity,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
said in Brussels. “But solidarity is not a one-way street. That
shouldn’t be forgotten in Greece.”  The German initiative reflected a revolt by taxpayers in
richer EU countries against underwriting others at a time of
10.1 percent euro-area unemployment.  Austrian Finance Minister  Josef Proell  said the payment of
the next tranche of aid for Greece will be delayed until January
after the government in Athens missed a revenue-raising target.
Finland’s  Jyrki Katainen  said that Ireland should be forced to
put up collateral for any aid.  “The problem isn’t Ireland per se but the fact that
Germany and France have pushed for a treaty change with the
option of a state default,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist
at ING Group NV in Brussels. “The contagion effect will remain
as long as there’s no certainty about what’s going to happen
beyond 2013.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling or  jhertling@bloomberg.net  