-- European Stocks Drop as Rio Tinto, HSBC Retreat; Infineon Jumps
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-11-16T17:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/european-u-s-stock-index-futures-drop-burberry-may-advance-on-earnings.html
European stocks tumbled by the most
in four months amid concern that China will have to take
measures to cool inflation and as Ireland held talks over a
financial rescue amid the resurgent debt crisis.  Rio Tinto Group paced declines by mining stocks, losing 4.8
percent as metals prices plunged. HSBC Holdings Plc and BNP
Paribas SA slipped more than 2 percent. Vivendi SA dropped 3.1
percent after saying earnings at its SFR unit fell.  Infineon
Technologies AG  surged 4.2 percent as it announced a share
buyback and its first dividend in a decade.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  slumped 2.3 percent to
265.98 at the close in London, the biggest one-day drop since
July 1. The gauge fell 0.7 percent last week as mounting concern
about the cost of bailing out Ireland’s banks led to a surge in
the cost of insuring bonds from Europe’s most indebted nations.  “Emerging markets, especially China, are facing more and
more inflationary pressures,” said  Markus Steinbeis , head of
equity portfolio management at the Unterfoehring, Germany-based
unit of Pioneer Investments KGmbH, which oversees about $221
billion globally. “It’s a trigger for the market right now to
calm down and take some profits. In the longer term, a political
solution for problems in the euro zone must be found.”  Price Limits  Chinese Central Bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said China is
under “pressure” from capital inflows as a state newspaper
said price controls could be imposed to cool the fastest
inflation in two years. Zhou reiterated government goals of
“moderate” credit growth and stronger liquidity management at
a forum in Beijing today. The China Securities Journal said
price limits are possible for food, citing unidentified sources.  Ireland is in talks with European and International
Monetary Fund officials about a bailout that would shore up the
state’s finances as well as enable it to inject capital into the
country’s banks, said a European official with direct knowledge
of the talks.  Irish officials have held talks with the European
Commission, the European Central Bank and the IMF in the past
days, the person said. Irish assessments of banking losses held
up to scrutiny in those discussions, the person said.  An Irish central bank spokesman declined to comment. An
Irish finance ministry spokesman also declined to comment
directly today and referred to a statement issued on Nov. 14.
Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  said late yesterday that no formal
application had been made for EU support.  Threatened to Block  National benchmark stock indexes fell all 18 western
European markets except Iceland. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 tumbled 2.4
percent. France’s CAC 40 slid 2.6 percent, while Germany’s DAX
lost 1.9 percent.  Stocks extended declines after Austria threatened to block
its next transfer of European Union funds because Greece isn’t
meeting tax revenue and deficit-cutting targets.  Austrian Finance Minister  Josef Proell  said Greece’s
progress in meeting its commitments “doesn’t give us any reason
to approve the December tranche.” The Greek budget deficit for
last year was revised to 15.4 percent of gross domestic product
from 13.6 percent by the EU yesterday.  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company, and
Rio Tinto fell 3.7 percent to 2,318 pence and 4.8 percent to
4,120 pence, respectively, leading European basic-resource
shares to the worst performance among 19  industry groups  in the
Stoxx 600. Kazakhmys Plc tumbled 6.1 percent to 1,421 pence.  Tighten Policy  “Speculation that the central bank will tighten monetary
policy continues to dog the market,” said  Wang Cheng , a
strategist at Guotai Junan Securities Co. in Shanghai. “The
market will be under pressure for the coming three to 12 months
from the threat of measures to cool inflation.”  Salzgitter AG slid 4.7 percent to 50.80 euros after
Deutsche Bank AG downgraded Germany’s second-largest steelmaker
to “hold” from “buy.”  Copper resumed a decline in London and New York. Aluminum,
zinc, nickel, lead and tin also fell.  HSBC lost 2.5 percent to 665 pence, while BNP Paribas,
France’s largest bank, dropped 3.5 percent to 51.53 euros. A
gauge of the region’s banks fell 3.1 percent, among the worst
performers in the Stoxx 600.
      Vivendi , owner of the world’s largest video-games company,
lost 3.1 percent to 19.86 euros. Adjusted third-quarter net
income rose 6.7 percent to 688 million euros ($936.5 million),
Paris-based Vivendi said in an e-mailed statement. Analysts had
predicted profit of 649 million euros. Earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization at Vivendi’s SFR unit slid
1 percent.  “Operating momentum at SFR is weakening,” UBS AG analysts
 Polo Tang  and  Kiran Ganesh  in London wrote in a report today.
“Weakening trends at SFR are likely to remain an area of focus
for investors.”  Eiffage, Acciona  Eiffage SA  slumped 6.8 percent to 34.38 euros. Deutsche
Bank AG is managing the sale of a 1.9 percent stake in France’s
third-largest construction company, the German bank said,
without identifying who commissioned the sale.  Acciona SA declined 6.6 percent to 55.15 euros, the lowest
price since October 2004. The Spanish construction company said
its nine-month net income dropped 3.3 percent to 101 million
euros ($137 million).  Petroleum Geo-Services ASA  sank 8.9 percent to 78.85
kroner. The world’s third-biggest surveyor of oil and natural-
gas fields raised 1.6 billion kroner ($267 million) in a private
placement to finance the purchase of two Ramform vessels.  ITV, Taylor Wimpey  ITV Plc  declined 5.6 percent to 67.1 pence as the U.K.’s
biggest commercial broadcaster predicted television advertising
growth will slow in the fourth quarter. “The economic outlook
for 2011 is uncertain and we continue to plan on a cautious
basis,” Chief Executive Officer  Adam Crozier  said in a
statement.  Infineon  gained 4.2 percent to 6.22 euros. Europe’s second-
biggest chipmaker reported fiscal fourth-quarter profit of 390
million euros. That beat the average estimate of analysts in a
Bloomberg survey for a profit of 216.2 million euros.  Infineon proposed a dividend of 10 cents a share for the
year ended September, the first since a payment for fiscal year
2000. The company will also propose to shareholders a buyback of
as many as 10 percent of the company’s shares, Chief Executive
Officer  Peter Bauer  said in a conference call today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 