-- European October Inflation Accelerates on Surging Energy Costs
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2010-11-16T10:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/europe-inflation-accelerates-to-near-two-year-high-on-surging-energy-costs.html
European inflation accelerated to
the fastest in almost two years in October, led by surging
energy costs.  Euro-area  consumer prices  rose 1.9 percent from a year
earlier after increasing 1.8 percent in September, the European
Union statistics office in Luxembourg said today. That’s the
fastest since November 2008 and in line with an estimate
published on Oct. 29. Energy prices rose 8.5 percent in October
from a year earlier, the biggest gain since May.  Crude-oil prices have jumped 12 percent over the past two
months just as growth in the region’s economy weakened. The
European Central Bank, which has kept borrowing costs at a
record low and provided banks with emergency liquidity, forecast
on Nov. 4 that inflation will remain “moderate.”  “It’s purely oil-driven,” said  Christoph Weil , an
economist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “Underlying inflation
pressures will remain very subdued overall into 2011.”  The euro was little changed against the dollar after the
data, trading at $1.3602 at 10:03 a.m. in London, up 0.1 percent
on the day.  Rising energy costs are leaving companies and consumers
with less money to spend, threatening to deepen the region’s
slowdown. Europe’s services industry expanded at a weaker pace
last month and unemployment remained at the highest in more than
12 years in September. German  investor confidence  dropped.  Cosmetics Maker  Beiersdorf AG , the German maker of Nivea skin creams, on
Nov. 4 reported third-quarter profit that missed analyst
estimates and lowered its earnings forecast.  L’Oreal SA , the
world’s largest cosmetics maker, said last month that Western
European sales lagged behind revenue in other markets.  The ECB, which aims to keep annual gains in consumer prices
just below 2 percent, forecasts that “inflationary pressures
over the medium term” will remain “contained,” President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said on  Nov. 4 . The central bank said on
Nov. 11 that its latest survey of professional forecasters sees
inflation averaging 1.5 percent this year and next before
reaching 1.6 percent in 2012.  Core inflation , which excludes volatile costs such as
energy prices, quickened to 1.1 percent from 1 percent in the
prior month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  