-- Euro Rises From Six-Week Low on Ireland Bailout Speculation, German Data
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-11-16T07:02:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/euro-rises-from-six-week-low-on-ireland-bailout-speculation-german-data.html
The euro rose from a six-week low
amid speculation a bailout for Ireland from the European Union
and the International Monetary Fund will keep the nation’s
banking woes from spreading throughout the region.  Europe’s currency gained versus 13 of 16 major counterparts
before a report today that may show German investor confidence
grew for the first time in seven months. Australia’s dollar
traded near a more than two-week low after minutes of the
central bank’s meeting this month said its decision to raise
interest rates was “finely balanced.” South Korea’s won rose
by the most in two weeks as policy makers raised interest rates
for a second time this year.  “European Union members continue to pressure Ireland to
apply for financial help,” said  David Forrester , a currency
economist at Barclays Capital in Singapore. “Should a bailout
occur, we see the potential for moderate and temporary support
for the euro.”  The euro advanced to $1.3599 at 6:50 a.m. in London from
$1.3587 in New York yesterday, after earlier touching $1.3561,
the lowest since Sept. 30. It was at 112.90 yen from 112.88 yen.
The dollar bought 83.01 yen from 83.07 yen yesterday, when it
climbed to 83.27 yen, the strongest since Oct. 6.  Ireland’s Cowen  Irish Prime Minister Brian Cowen signaled a willingness to
weigh measures to assist the nation’s banks by putting possible
aid for them on the agenda of today’s meeting of euro-area
finance ministers.  Cowen told state broadcaster RTE in an interview late
yesterday “we have to discuss these matters with partners as to
how best to underpin financial and banking stability within the
euro area.” He also said Ireland has not asked for any bailout.  European Central Bank Vice President Vitor Constancio said
yesterday Ireland could use the European Financial Stability
Facility to help support its banking system to restore investor
confidence. The 750 billion-euro ($1 trillion) stability
facility was created in May to provide umbrella protection to
euro-region countries.  The IMF stands ready to help Ireland if needed, Managing
Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn said Nov. 13 in Yokohama, Japan.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
will say its index of  investor and analyst expectations , which
aims to predict developments six months ahead, increased to
minus 6 from minus 7.2 in October, according to the median of 33
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  RBA Statement  “Recoveries of the euro-zone’s economies, led by Germany,
still seems to be firm,” said  Takashi Kudo , general manager of
market information service at NTT SmartTrade Inc., a unit of NTT
Telegraph & Telephone Corp. in Tokyo. “This may cause some
buying of the euro.”  The euro has fallen 7.6 percent this year against its 10
developed-nation counterparts, Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes show. The dollar is down 2 percent, and the yen
has gained 11 percent.  Australia’s dollar weakened against all major currencies as
Reserve Bank of Australia policy makers said a “modest
tightening” was considered prudent when they increased the
benchmark rate by a quarter percentage point on Nov. 2.  “The market will take the view that RBA is going to sit
back and wait until February,”  Greg Gibbs , a currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Sydney.
“There are bets toward the Australian currency falling with the
U.S. dollar strengthening broadly.”  Yen, Fibonacci  Swap traders are betting the RBA will keep its official
cash rate unchanged at its next meeting on Dec. 7, before
raising by 43 basis points over the next year, according to an
 index  compiled by Credit Suisse Group AG.  Australia’s dollar traded at 98.31 U.S. cents from 98.53
cents yesterday, when it touched 98.13 cents, the least since
Oct. 29. The so-called Aussie was at 81.61 yen from 81.85 yen.  South Korea’s won rose for the first time in three days
after the Bank of Korea increased the seven-day  repurchase rate 
by 0.25 percentage point to 2.5 percent. The central bank’s
interest-rate increase was predicted by six of 13 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The rest expected no change.  “The market is still nervous,” said  Gerrard Katz , head of
foreign-exchange trading at Standard Chartered Plc in Hong Kong.
“It awaits any measures Korea would take to control the inflow
of hot money.”  The won appreciated 0.2 percent to 1,129.47 per dollar.  Gains in the dollar may curbed ahead of major resistance at
83.21 yen, a 23.6 percent retracement of the greenback’s fall
from the June 4 high of 92.89 yen to the Nov. 1 low of 80.22
yen, based on a series of numbers known as the Fibonacci
sequence.  Fibonacci analysis is based on a theory that prices rise or
fall by certain percentages after reaching a high or low, and
indicates levels of resistance or support. Resistance is where
sell orders may be clustered, while support is where there may
be buy orders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 