-- Euro Trades Near Seven-Week Low on Concern Ireland Debt Crisis May Spread
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2010-11-17T08:42:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/euro-trades-near-seven-week-low-on-concern-ireland-debt-crisis-may-spread.html
The euro traded near a seven-week
low against the dollar amid concern a failure to craft a rescue
package for Ireland will allow the nation’s banking crisis to
spread to other member states of the common currency.  The dollar rose versus the yen for a seventh straight day,
marking a six-week high and the longest run of gains since 1995.
The Australian and New Zealand dollars traded near the lowest
levels in more than two weeks as declines in stocks and concern
that China will take measures to cool inflation damped demand
for higher-yielding assets.  “Concerns about the region’s debt crisis weigh on the
euro,” said  Jeremy Stretch , executive director of foreign-
exchange strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in
London. “That’s given the dollar a boost, and the euro stays
under pressure. Ireland’s problem is not so much a sovereign
issue as a banking issue.”  The euro was at $1.3487 as of 8:01 a.m. in London from
$1.3489 in New York yesterday, when it touched $1.3448, the
weakest level since Sept. 28. The shared currency traded at
112.55 yen from 112.38 yen after dropping 0.4 percent yesterday.
The greenback fetched 83.43 yen from 83.29 yen. Yesterday, it
reached 83.59 yen, the highest level since Oct. 5.  “The rebound in the dollar is beneficial for the Japanese
economy,” Stretch said. “Dollar-yen is squeezing up and that
will help alleviate some of the nation’s export pressures.”  EU, IMF Talks  Ireland is negotiating with the European Union and
International Monetary Fund about aid to shore up the state’s
finances, furnish capital for the country’s banks and spare the
nation from tapping the bond market for an extended period, a
European official said on condition of anonymity.  European finance ministers started work on possible aid for
Ireland’s  debt-laden banks , stopping short of an immediate
bailout package. Finance chiefs from the 16-country euro region
lauded Ireland’s budget cuts, echoing the rhetorical support
offered in the early stages of Greece’s debt trauma before a
rescue became necessary. Ireland said it doesn’t need EU money.  Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  told Parliament in Dublin
the nation hasn’t lodged an aid request and the goal is “a
credible, efficient and above all workable solution that will
provide assurance to the markets.”  Dollar ‘Bias’  “Investors are poised to unwind their positions rather
than adding new ones amid Europe’s lingering issues, and the
bias is for the dollar to be bought,” said  Kuniyuki Hirai ,
manager of foreign-exchange trading at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd., a unit of Japan’s largest lender. “The euro will
struggle to rise toward year-end.”  Austrian Finance Minister  Josef Proell  said he’s
considering withholding his country’s share of the next part of
Greece’s 110 billion-euro ($148 billion) rescue, saying the
Athens government missed a revenue-raising target. Greece’s
near-default in May triggered Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The euro has lost 7.4 percent this year against its
developed-nation counterparts, Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes show. The dollar is down 1 percent, while the
yen has gained 12 percent, the indexes show.  The dollar was supported as Atlanta Federal Reserve
President Dennis Lockhart said additional bond purchases by the
central bank aren’t intended to weaken the greenback.  Fed Outlook  Lockhart said the program to buy $600 billion in Treasuries
is not intended to weaken the dollar or monetize the debt. The
effect of the policy would be “measured,” Lockhart said in
remarks prepared for a speech in Montgomery, Alabama.  The Fed announced on Nov. 3 it would make the bond
purchases, a program known as quantitative easing, through June.
Boston Fed President Eric Rosengren is set to speak at a chamber
of commerce breakfast in Providence, R.I., and St. Louis Fed
President James Bullard will speak in St. Louis today.  The dollar’s gains may be limited as reports today are
forecast to show U.S. inflation was contained and housing starts
dropped to a three-month low.  “Employment and housing haven’t recovered much at all,”
said  Tetsuya Inoue , chief researcher for financial markets at
Nomura Research Institute in Tokyo, a unit of Japan’s largest
brokerage. “Weak credit conditions in the U.S. may prompt
people to invest money abroad. As a result, the dollar will be
under downward pressure.”  Inflation, Housing  U.S. consumer prices, excluding food and fuel costs, rose
0.7 percent in October from a year ago after gaining 0.8 percent
in September, according to the median estimate of economists in
a Bloomberg News survey before today’s data. Housing starts grew
at a 598,000 annual rate last month, the least since July and
down from a 610,000 rate in September, another survey showed.  The euro gained against the yen as the common currency
climbed above the so-called cloud of the daily ichimoku chart
after entering it yesterday.  Ichimoku analysis, developed by a Japanese journalist, is
used to predict a currency’s direction through analyzing the
midpoints of historical highs and lows.  Australia’s currency touched 97.25 U.S. cents yesterday,
the weakest since Oct. 29, after Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said
the cabinet is drafting steps to counter excessive price gains.  “The Aussie dollar has been directly affected by the
movement we’ve seen in risk appetite because of China tightening
concerns and news from the euro zone,” said Ray Attrill, head
of macro strategy in Sydney at Tallship Investments, a currency
fund manager.  Australia’s currency traded at 97.38 U.S. cents from 97.67
cents. New Zealand’s dollar was at 76.41 cents from 76.78 cents.
The so-called kiwi reached 76.39 cents earlier today, the lowest
since Nov. 2.  The MSCI World Index of shares fell for the eighth straight
day, dropping 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  