-- Euro Dominos Will Fall Until Currency Is Split: Matthew Lynn
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L y n n
-- 2010-11-16T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/euro-dominos-will-fall-until-currency-is-split-commentary-by-matthew-lynn.html
Who’s next? First Greece went bust.
Now Ireland is on the brink of a bailout from the European Union
and the  International Monetary Fund .  When it happens, we’ll hear plenty of soothing words about
how contagion has been stopped, the euro area has been put on a
firmer footing, and the single currency saved. There will be a
lot of grand rhetoric about the importance of the European
project. Stern condemnations of the speculators will ring out
across the continent.  Don’t listen to a word of it. The euro has turned into a
bankruptcy machine. Once the markets have finished with Ireland,
they will simply move on to  Portugal  and Spain, and after that
to  Italy  and  France .  There is a domino effect at work, and, with each rescue,
the fault lines within the euro grow wider and wider. This
process isn’t going to stop until the euro is taken apart.  The Irish crisis is far more serious for the euro than the
Greek one. The only thing that can rescue the former  Celtic
Tiger  now is a clear and straightforward commitment from the
rest of the euro-area nations to salvage the country’s economy.
No doubt that will be forthcoming. Tens of billions of euros
will be thrown at shoring up confidence in Ireland’s finances.  But it is very hard for the single currency’s remaining
supporters to explain why it has come to this. The Greeks
fiddled their way into the euro. They should never have been
allowed on board. And once inside, they should have been told to
reform fast or get out again.  Irish Austerity  No one can say that about the Irish. Ireland had one of the
most successful economies in the world over the last two
decades. Its government was never profligate. When the crisis
hit, it didn’t bury its head in the sand the way the Greeks did.
It took every austerity measure imaginable to try and fix its
problems by itself -- and without calling on outside assistance.  In short, the problem wasn’t Ireland. It was the euro. The
logic of that is inescapable. If it is the single currency that
is at the root of the crisis, it won’t stop here.  Where next? Portugal, most obviously.  The country had a deficit of 9.3 percent of gross domestic
product in 2009, the highest in the euro region after Ireland,
Greece and  Spain . The government aims to narrow that to 7.3
percent this year, but whether that is achievable is doubtful.
Bond yields suggest many investors are skeptical. In a Bloomberg
poll last week, 38 percent of global investors said Portugal was
“likely” to default.  Spanish Deficit  And after that? Why imagine that Spain is safe? Its budget
deficit is expected to be 9.3 percent this year, the second-
highest in the euro area. With a stagnant economy, it is going
to be very hard to make any significant reductions in that.  On the same logic, why not target Italy? It has remained
under the radar, mostly because it has managed to avoid running
up big budget deficits, at least compared with some of its
Mediterranean neighbors. But it has a huge stock of debt, a
legacy of past over-spending. And its economy has been in
terrible shape ever since it joined the euro.  What about France? True, it has a stronger economy than
many of the peripheral euro-area nations. And yet as the
protests over a very modest reform to the pension system last
month made vividly clear, no other European nation remains as
wedded to an outdated, expensive social system as the French.
Even the Greeks showed more willingness to change. It would be
wrong to assume France can stay out of the spotlight forever.  Credit-Fueled Bust  “Portugal faces various structural deficiencies,” Morgan
Stanley  said in a note  to investors last week, looking at which
country would need a bailout next. “In  Greece , the key issue is
fiscal indiscipline, in Spain a credit-fueled housing boom-
turned-bust, similarly in Ireland but coupled with an outsized
banking sector.”  In each country, it will be a different trigger that causes
a collapse in financial confidence. The root cause is the same,
though. When the euro was launched, it was a big bet that
sharing the same currency would make a group of very different
economies converge, and so allow the  European Central Bank  to
operate a single monetary policy for all of them.  It was an interesting theory, but it turned out to be
wrong. The economies are just too different to allow a single
central bank to manage all of them.  Interest rates  are always
wrong everywhere. How that expresses itself varies. In Greece,
it was a fiscal crisis. In Ireland, a banking collapse. In
Spain, a construction bubble that burst. In  Germany , a massive  trade surplus . But, like a river looking for the sea, it always
comes out somewhere.  This crisis will keep moving from country to country. The
only permanent fix is splitting up the euro into more manageable
currency areas. Until the euro area’s leaders recognize that
simple truth, every bailout they come up with is only going to
shift the attacks elsewhere.  (Matthew Lynn is a Bloomberg News columnist and the author
of “Bust,” a forthcoming book on the Greek debt crisis. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  