-- Nexen, Pembina Pipeline, Potash Corp.: Canadian Equity Preview
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-11-16T13:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/farallon-mining-nexen-pembina-pipeline-may-move-canadian-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have  unusual  moves in  Canadian trading .  Alliance Grain Traders Inc.  (AGT CT): The company, which
calls itself the world’s largest lentil and pea splitter, had
its rating raised to “sector outperform” from “sector
perform” by  Christine Healy , an analyst at Bank of Nova Scotia.  Centerra Gold Inc.  (CG CN): The company, which mines in
Kyrgyzstan and Mongolia, decided to exercise an option to
increase its interest in the Kara Beldyr joint venture in Russia
to 70 percent by spending a further $4 million on exploration on
the property over a two-year period.  Farallon Mining Ltd.  (FAN CT): The zinc producer with
operations in Mexico said Nyrstar NV has agreed to offer 80
cents a share in cash for the company in a friendly takeover
bid. Farallon shares closed unchanged at 65 cents a share before
the announcement.  Great Basin Gold Ltd.  (GBG CN): The company, which explores
for gold in South Africa and the U.S., posted a third-quarter
loss excluding some items that was wider than the average
analyst estimate.  Magma Energy Corp.  (MXY CT): The geothermal energy producer
said it earned 5 cents a share in the first quarter. Steven Li,
an analyst at Raymond James Financial Inc., and Jeremy
Mersereau, an analyst at National Bank of Canada, had estimated
the company would earn 1 cent a share, excluding certain items.  Nexen Inc.  (NXY CT): Executives from the oil and gas
company with operations on five continents are making
presentations to investors beginning at in Calgary.  Pembina Pipeline Corp.  (PPL CT): The transporter of oil and
gas in western Canada said it will sell at least C$250 million
($248 million) of debt that can be converted into stock.  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  (POT CT): The world’s
largest fertilizer producer by market value may move after OAO
PhosAgro of Moscow said it is seeking talks with the Canadian
government about a potential bid for the company. The government
rejected BHP Billiton Ltd.’s $40 billion bid as not having a net
benefit to Canada.  To contact the reporter on this story;
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  