-- Fed's Rosengren Sees Bank Completing Entire $600 Billion Stimulus Program
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2010-11-16T19:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/fed-s-rosengren-sees-bank-completing-entire-600-billion-stimulus-program.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  said he expects the central bank to buy
the entire $600 billion of Treasuries policy makers authorized
Nov. 3 in a bid to reduce unemployment.  “Given my forecast, I fully anticipate we will purchase
the entire amount,” Rosengren, 53, said today in an interview
with Bloomberg News. “Certainly if the economy were to weaken
substantially and further disinflation were to occur, we should
take more action,” and officials could also make
“adjustments” if the economy turned out to be much stronger
than expected, he said.  Rosengren’s remarks extend a defense of the program by Fed
officials against critics outside the central bank and some
inside. Asked about the rise in 10-year Treasury yields over the
last two weeks, Rosengren said that “ideally” the Fed would
like to see rates stay low, “but we don’t control all the
things that affect these markets,” such as investor
expectations for fiscal deficits in the U.S. and abroad.  The Boston Fed estimates the renewed large-scale asset
purchases will help reduce the U.S. jobless rate by an
additional 0.5 percentage point over the next two years,
equivalent to adding 700,000 jobs, said Rosengren, who supported
the action as a voting member this year on the Fed’s Open Market
Committee.  That would mean an unemployment rate at the end of 2012 of
“around” 8 percent, “which means we’re still not where we
want to be,” and inflation excluding food and energy may not be
“dramatically different” than now, he said.  Halt Expansion  Yesterday, a group of 23 people including former Republican
government officials and economists urged Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to halt the expansion of monetary stimulus. The
decision has been criticized by Republicans including Wisconsin
Representative  Paul Ryan , set to chair the House Budget
Committee, who said Nov. 7 the Fed’s move is a “big mistake”
that will cause an “inflation problem.”  Rosengren, the Boston Fed’s president since 2007, said
private forecasters see inflation staying below 2 percent for
the next year, and “most of the interest rates do not seem
consistent with a hyperinflation story or even a high inflation
story.”  “Congress had made very clear what they want us to focus
on,” Rosengren said. “This policy focuses on trying to get the
economy growing fast enough that we bring the unemployment rate
down more quickly than we otherwise would and bring the
inflation rate back to what we think is financial stability.”  Fed Mandate  Two Republican lawmakers, Indiana Representative  Mike Pence 
and Tennessee Senator  Bob Corker , are proposing to change the
Fed’s legislative mandate to focus only on controlling inflation
instead of also on maximum employment.  That kind of change now “really wouldn’t affect policy all
that much because we’ve had disinflation over the last year and
a half,” Rosengren said. “Right now there’s not a conflict.”  “There are times when inflation and unemployment are not
necessarily consistent in terms of what you should do,”
Rosengren said. “That is a tension that is worth discussing. So
personally I think we should have a dual mandate, but if
Congress says that we should focus on a single mandate, then
that’s what we would focus on.”  Before the Fed’s decision, Rosengren said Sept. 29 that
policy makers have the tools to act and should respond
“vigorously, creatively, thoughtfully and persistently” to a
slow recovery.  Skepticism About Stimulus  Several policy makers have expressed opposition or
skepticism about the stimulus. Fed Governor  Kevin Warsh  said
last week that he is “less optimistic than some that additional
asset purchases will have significant, durable benefits for the
real economy.”  Asked about the division of views on the FOMC, Rosengren
said that “there’s controversy whenever you’re in unusual
circumstances and you’re making decisions that are outside the
recent experience.”  “It’s not surprising that there would be a robust
discussion about what appropriate actions would be,” he said.
“The Federal Reserve is designed to encourage a wide range of
views to be voiced, considered seriously, and then a consensus
around what the appropriate decision should be. I think that has
worked.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  