-- FHA Reserves Fall to Lowest on Record as Agency Boosts Capital
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2010-11-16T19:15:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/fha-reserves-fall-to-record-low-as-regulator-sees-foundation-for-recovery.html
The Federal Housing Administration
has told U.S. lawmakers that the agency’s mortgage-insurance
fund has enough money to cover losses on home loans it backs
even as reserves reached a new low.  The FHA’s capital-reserve ratio, which measures funds
needed to cover projected losses, fell to 0.50 percent in the
year ended Sept. 30 from 0.53 percent a year earlier, remaining
below the federally mandated 2 percent minimum for a second
straight year, the agency said today in a  report  to Congress.  The shortfall, largely attributed to loans insured before
last year, came even as the agency’s total capital resources
reached a record $33.3 billion, bolstered by better performance
on newer loans and increases in insurance premiums, according to
the report.  Even in a worst-case scenario where U.S. home prices fall
24 percent from current levels, the agency could cover claims
without a taxpayer bailout, according to the report. The agency
guarantees a fifth of U.S. mortgages and provided funding for
almost 40 percent of loans issued in the past year.  “Under any economic scenario, the FHA remains self-
sustaining indefinitely,” Commissioner  David Stevens  said in a
conference call with reporters. “FHA is in a stronger position
today than we were a year ago.”  Reverse Mortgages  Loans insured before 2009 accounted for 70 percent of
projected losses on single-family mortgages, the FHA said.
Without losses and provisions for “seller-financed down payment
assistance loans” -- now-prohibited mortgages that helped
borrowers avoid down payments -- the ratio would have surpassed
the 2 percent minimum, the agency said.  Reverse mortgages, which allow homeowners 62 or older to
borrow against their equity even when they have limited income,
also hurt the capital ratio, the FHA said. Excluding those loans
from the analysis increased the capital ratio for single-family
loans to 0.79 percent from 0.42 percent a year ago.  In October, the FHA increased annual insurance premiums on
higher-risk borrowers to 0.90 percent from 0.55 percent of a
loan’s principal balance and raised credit-score requirements,
making it more difficult for borrowers to qualify for programs
that permit low down-payments.  The agency has suspended or banned 1,500 lenders and is
increasing standards for originators that sell FHA-insured
mortgages.  Federal law requires that the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development -- the FHA’s parent agency -- report to
Congress when reserves fall below 2 percent and present a plan
for reaching the required threshold. Under conservative
assumptions for housing-price growth, that capital ratio will
exceed the statutory requirement by 2015 without any new policy
actions, the FHA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 