-- Fiat Says Ferrari, Alfa Transactions Are `Strategic Options' After Spinoff
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2010-11-16T18:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/fiat-says-ferrari-alfa-transactions-are-strategic-options-after-spinoff.html
Fiat SpA  said transactions involving
units Ferrari SpA, Magneti Marelli SpA and Alfa Romeo SpA might
be considered after the spinoff of its industrial businesses.  “These represent just some of the strategic options
available” after the demerger “that could be evaluated
internally at the company’s full discretion,” Italy’s biggest
manufacturer said today in a statement made at the request of
stock market regulator Consob.  The Italian carmaker, which runs Chrysler Group LLC, may
sell its auto-parts division Magneti Marelli SpA and a stake in
sports-car maker Ferrari SpA before consolidating Chrysler,
Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said at a Nov. 12
presentation in Turin, analysts told Bloomberg News yesterday.  “We left Turin with the clear message that Fiat and
Chrysler will become one company,” Morgan Stanley analyst
 Stuart Pearson  wrote in a note yesterday. “A Ferrari initial
public offering and potential Marelli disposal may need to come
first, according to management,” said Pearson, who has an
“overweight” rating on Fiat.  Fiat said in the statement that the comments by Pearson
reflect “his own views as to the future strategies of the two
groups following the demerger.”  The Italian company  jumped  to the highest price in 2 1/2
years in Milan yesterday after the analyst reports. Marchionne
met analysts to explain the advantages of spinning off truck and
tractor divisions to focus on carmaking.  “Marchionne identified a Ferrari initial public offering
and Magneti Marelli disposal as potential sources of cash,
without giving a timeframe,”  Eric Hauser , a Credit Suisse
analyst based in London, said in an interview yesterday.  Fiat shares fell 2 percent to 13.10 euros in Milan trading
today as the Italian carmaker led a seventh consecutive monthly
drop in European car sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tommaso Ebhardt  in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  