-- Five-Day Wait for Beijing Flight Lures U.S. Airlines
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2010-11-16T18:37:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/five-day-wait-for-beijing-flight-lures-u-s-airlines-into-asia-travel-boom.html
One of Peter Philipp Wingsoe’s
employees at a Los Angeles marketing firm recently waited five
days for a business-class ticket on a  United Airlines  jet home
from Beijing because planes were so packed.  Those crowds are spurring  United Continental Holdings Inc. ,
 Delta Air Lines Inc.  and other U.S. carriers to expand flights
to Asia, lured by economic growth in China that’s triple the
U.S. rate and new access to an airport nearer to downtown Tokyo.  “It’s been quite difficult, particularly getting last-
minute flights,” said Wingsoe, 38, who makes about a half-dozen
trips to Asia each year as managing partner at  Entertainment
Fusion Group . “There’s nothing open. Last year we could call
the day of and get on, no problem.”  Wingsoe’s travels make him part of a surge in Asia/Pacific
air traffic. The region’s 10.4 percent increase through
September from a year earlier outpaced a 6.7 percent gain in
North America and more than doubled Europe’s 4.4 percent,
according to the  International Air Transport Association .  United, which leads U.S. airlines in traffic to and from
China, plans to start Los Angeles-Shanghai flights in May.
American Airlines plans to add service on the same route and may
fly to Hong Kong and Guangzhou as well. The economy in the
world’s most populous nation expanded at an annual rate of 9.6
percent last quarter, compared with 3.1 percent in the U.S.  “China continues to be on fire,”  Jim Compton , chief
revenue officer for Chicago-based United, said on an Oct. 21
conference call.  Ramping Up  Delta said today it will add twice-weekly service between
its largest hub in Atlanta and Shanghai in June, with five
flights a week from Detroit to Beijing beginning in July. Tokyo-
Guangzhou service will be introduced in April, the carrier said.  Flights from Seattle to Beijing and Detroit to Hong Kong
are “ramping up very well” since their June debut, while
Japan-Hawaii service is posting “especially strong results,”
Delta President  Ed Bastian  said on an October conference call.  Hawaiian Holdings Inc. ’s Hawaiian Airlines is also adding
Asia flights, with service starting tomorrow between its
hometown of Honolulu and Tokyo. Next up is Seoul in January,
according to Hawaiian, the 11th-biggest U.S. airline by traffic.  They’re jockeying with carriers based in the region,
including Singapore Airlines Ltd. and  Cathay Pacific Airways
Ltd. , Hong Kong’s biggest airline. Singapore Airlines boosted a
business-class-only flight to Los Angeles to seven days a week
from five on Oct. 5, and did the same with a Singapore-Moscow-
Houston flight.  Losses, Then Profit  Profit for the Asia-Pacific airline industry probably will
be $5.2 billion this year, more than double an earlier forecast
of $2.2 billion, IATA said in September.  China service was among the casualties for U.S. airlines as
they cut seats in the recession, with service deferred to cities
such as Beijing and Guangzhou. The  eight largest  carriers posted
net losses of $15.1 billion in 2008 and $3.56 billion in 2009.  The group’s return to profit, with third-quarter net income
of $2.44 billion, heralds a fresh round of expansion, said  David Swierenga , president of consultant AeroEcon in Round Rock,
Texas, and a former chief economist at the  Air Transport
Association  trade group.  “When earnings start to improve, carriers look at putting
another plane into service because they can make more money with
it,” Swierenga said.  Driving Revenue  United said revenue from each seat flown a mile across the
Pacific rose 41 percent last quarter from a year earlier, while
Atlanta-based Delta had a 45 percent surge and American posted a
21 percent increase. It was the biggest gain in any region for
United, Delta and Fort Worth, Texas-based American, the largest
U.S. carriers.  U.S. airlines’ sales from overseas flights probably will
rise about 10 percent in 2011, compared with about 1 percent for
domestic service,  William Greene , a Morgan Stanley analyst in
New York, wrote yesterday in a note to clients. He recommends
buying United, Delta and American parent  AMR Corp.   The  Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index  of 12 carriers climbed 29
percent this year through yesterday, topping the 7.4 percent
advance for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index .  Trans-Pacific routes don’t have competition from discount
carriers, giving airlines more control over pricing, Swierenga
said. “The only pressure they face on these international
markets is self-induced,” he said.  Carriers also prize the flights because corporate travelers
will pay a premium for first or business class on trips of 10
hours or more, such as United’s nonstops between San Francisco
and Shanghai.  $10,000 Fare  Wingsoe of Entertainment Fusion Group, which does marketing
and brand placement, flew business class to Tokyo on  Japan
Airlines Corp.  for $10,000 round trip last week to give a
lecture at Tokyo University and meet with clients.  “These were not the prices we were paying a year ago,”
Wingsoe said. “You could get that ticket for $3,500 if you
planned ahead. Now it’s three times as much.”  U.S. airlines are still playing catch-up with Asian rivals
on in-flight amenities. While Singapore Airlines offers private
suites on  Airbus SAS  A380s, upgrades such as lie-flat seats and
new entertainment screens are still being installed under
Delta’s $1 billion plan to renovate all its transoceanic jets.  United recently installed semiprivate first-class suites on
its  Boeing Co . 747s and 767s on international routes, and
American put semi-enclosed suites on 777s that fly to Tokyo.  ‘Open-Skies Treaty’  A so-called open-skies treaty easing flight rules is
letting U.S. airlines serve Tokyo’s Haneda airport for the first
time in three decades. Japan Airlines and All Nippon Airways Co.
already were able to make short-haul Asia flights there.  Delta will offer Haneda flights from Los Angeles and
Detroit in February, while American flies from New York.
Hawaiian’s Tokyo flights also will go to Haneda, a 13-minute
train ride to Tokyo’s  main loop rail line . Foreign carriers
previously were restricted to Narita International Airport, 40
miles (70 kilometers) from downtown.  Wingsoe said he welcomes the Haneda service because it
should save him an hour of transit time on future trips. His one
concern: “Everyone else is going to want to fly to Haneda, too.
There won’t be any seats.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  