-- Fletcher Buildings Earnings Ahead of Year Ago as Housing Demand Recovers
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-11-16T22:45:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/fletcher-buildings-earnings-ahead-of-year-ago-as-housing-demand-recovers.html
Fletcher Building Ltd. , New
Zealand’s largest supplier of building products, said earnings
in the four months through October were ahead of a year ago,
putting the company on target to increase full-year profit.  Annual net income is likely to be “broadly in line with
the average of analysts’ consensus estimates” of NZ$357 million
($274 million) from NZ$301 million a year earlier, Chairman
 Ralph Waters  told the annual meeting in Auckland today.  Fletcher is the world’s biggest maker of colored board for
kitchens and sink tops through its Formica unit, and the largest
manufacturer of steel roof tiles. Demand is unlikely to pick up
in Europe while there’s uncertainty around the timeframe for a
sustained recovery in the U.S., Waters said.  Housing  demand in New Zealand is likely to slowly improve
from weak levels while extra impetus to sales will come from
rebuilding after the magnitude 7 earthquake that rocked
Canterbury province in September, he said. In Australia,
conditions are likely to remain favorable, buoyed by demand from
the mining industry.  The Formica unit is looking at prospects to add
manufacturing capacity in China and Southeast Asia, Chief
Executive Officer  Jonathan Ling  told the meeting. It’s looking
at new market opportunities in India and Russia, while the U.S.
business has cut costs and is at break even on a 50 percent
reduction in sales, he said.  In New Zealand, Fletcher had a backlog of NZ$835 million of
construction work as of Oct. 31 with a further NZ$400 million of
contracts in which it is preferred bidder or in final talks,
Ling said. That excludes earthquake-related work where the
company is in talks with  Christchurch City  on a NZ$190 million
project to rebuild water pipes and roads, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  