-- Foreclosure Suits, Bank of America, Wisconsin-Ambac, Netschi in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-11-16T13:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/foreclosure-suits-bank-of-america-vodafone-in-court-news.html
Alan Shadrake, the British author
convicted of  contempt of court  for disparaging Singapore’s
judiciary, was sentenced to six weeks in jail and fined S$20,000
($15,380), a record sentence for the crime in the city-state.  Shadrake, 76, was also ordered to pay S$55,000 in costs to
the prosecution by Singapore High Court Judge Quentin Loh. He
was released until Nov. 24 to decide whether he wants to appeal
the decision.  The writer accused Singapore’s courts of succumbing to
political influences and favoring the rich over the poor in his
book “Once a Jolly Hangman: Singapore’s Justice in the Dock.”
The book contained “half-truths and selective facts; sometimes
even outright falsehoods,” Loh said in his Nov. 3 verdict.  “I still believe in what I said,” Shadrake told reporters
after the sentencing today, wearing a navy blue open-neck shirt,
beige jacket and cream-colored trousers. He’s working on a
second edition of the book that will correct a “misuse of the
word ‘judiciary’ which was careless on my part,” he said.  The prosecution had sought a jail term of at least 12 weeks
because of Shadrake’s “continued defiance” and allegations of
“the worst possible kind” against the judiciary.  Shadrake had no intention of undermining the city’s
judiciary and ought to be censured instead of jailed or fined,
his lawyer M. Ravi said at a Nov. 9 hearing.  Loh said in sentencing Shadrake today that he had shown a
“reckless disregard for the truth,” a “tendency to distort
his sources for his own purposes,” and that an average reader
of his book would be “likely to believe his contemptuous
remarks.”  He also said Shadrake made his situation worse in an
 interview  with the Guardian newspaper last week in which he said
Singapore’s authorities had “over-reacted” and were “going to
regret they ever started this.”  The case is Attorney-General vs Alan Shadrake OS720/2010 in
the Singapore High Court.  For more, click here.  Foreclosure Crisis  Comedian, Wrestler Hang on to House in Foreclosure Limbo  Comedian Lynn Moore and her husband, retired pro wrestler
“Cougar Jay,” were on the verge of losing their St. Augustine,
Florida, home when  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. ’s
foreclosure hearing was canceled last month, Bloomberg News’
David McLaughlin reports.  Moore, who runs a comedy club under the stage name Jackie
Knight, and her husband, whose real name is Dion, last made a
mortgage payment in mid-2009. She said they need to stay put
until at least January, when Dion, 50, expects to receive a
federal education grant they can use to rent a new home.  They are among the hundreds of thousands of Americans who
dwell in the limbo between homeownership and eviction as banks
and courts sort through foreclosure cases. Questions over the
legitimacy of mortgage documents used by banks such as  Wells
Fargo & Co.  and Bank of America Corp. have triggered litigation
nationwide. As a result, foreclosure proceedings have been
delayed, buying time for homeowners in default.  “It’s a slow-moving animal and, in the case of
foreclosures, there are a multiple of defenses to a foreclosure
action,” said Chae duPont, a Miami attorney who defends
homeowners and hosts a radio show about mortgage law.  About 1.2 million homes in the U.S. are in foreclosure,
according to  RealtyTrac Inc. , which compiles foreclosure data.
Homeowners are living in about 840,000 of those properties, the
Irvine, California-based company estimates.  Home seizures in the U.S. fell 9 percent in October from
the previous month, the biggest decline in a year. In the 23
states where the law calls for judicial proceedings, the average
foreclosure takes 271 days, compared with 147 in 2006, before
the housing bust, RealtyTrac said.  Complaints of defective documentation in foreclosure cases,
including misdated and improperly notarized paperwork and faulty
mortgage assignments, have prompted more homeowners to challenge
seizures, according to Florida homeowner attorney Mike Wasylik
of Ricardo, Wasylik & Kaniuk PL.  For more, click here.  No Breaks for Robo-signing Computer Stamping Mortgage Papers  Bryan Bly is a pen-wielding “robo-signer” at
Nationwide Title Clearing Inc., inking his name on an average
5,000 mortgage documents a day for companies such as Citigroup
Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Those are just the ones that cross his desk.  Nationwide Title  employs a computer system that
automatically inserts a copy of Bly’s signature on thousands of
digital files that he never sees, Bloomberg News’ Prashant Gopal
reports. The system even affixes an electronic notary seal.  “The problem with the way these documents are created
isn’t because a computer is used,” said Gloria Einstein, a
legal aid attorney in Green Cove Springs, Florida, who deposed
Bly in a case in which her client faces foreclosure by a unit of
Deutsche Bank AG. “It’s because an enterprise has decided to
use a computer to create a system where nobody is responsible
for the information and the decisions.”  The rush to securitize more than $4 trillion of mortgages
as U.S. home sales peaked in 2005 and 2006 inundated loan
servicers and contractors like Palm Harbor, Florida-based
Nationwide Title that help them handle paperwork. Lawsuits
fighting some of the more than 4 million  foreclosures  since then
have exposed sloppy recordkeeping and raised questions about the
validity of documents used to seize properties.  Bly is just one of more than a dozen robo-signers deposed
in the past two years by lawyers for borrowers seeking to block
foreclosures. Spurred by descriptions in depositions of
employees signing thousands of affidavits a week without
checking their accuracy as legally required, the attorneys
general in all 50 states last month opened an investigation into
whether banks and loan servicers used faulty documents or
improper practices to foreclose.  The issue for courts to decide is whether banks are seizing
homes that they never legally acquired, visiting Harvard Law
professor Katherine Porter told a Congressional Oversight Panel
on Oct. 27.  The legal debate centers on whether assignments can be
created to show transfers between banks that happened years
earlier, Porter said.  “The largest and most complex harm that may exist with the
loans in default or foreclosure today is that the paperwork for
the loans was not transferred correctly,” Porter said.  “I
emphasize that what constitutes a correct transfer is a gray
area; we need more direction from courts and legislatures on
this subject.”  For more, click here.  Possible Future Lawsuits  Japan Said to Weigh Wider Application of Insider Trading Laws  Japan may take a tougher stance on trading before and
during share sales, responding to criticism from investors who
allege information leaks on financing plans are eroding
confidence in the stock market.  The  Financial Services Agency  is studying whether Japan
should apply laws on insider trading to those with second-hand
or third-hand knowledge of undisclosed company news, said two
people with knowledge of the matter who requested anonymity. The
regulator is also considering a U.S.-style rule that limits
short sales of shares in companies selling new stock, they said.  Shares in companies including  Nippon Sheet Glass Co. ,  Tokyo
Electric Power Co.  and  Inpex Corp.  plunged before stock-sale
announcements this year or during the period leading up to
pricing. The Tokyo Stock Exchange said last month it’s
investigating suspicious trading of shares that fell before
companies announced fundraising plans.  Regulators are considering whether insider trading laws
should be expanded to encompass investors with indirect
knowledge of a future offering, in addition to company
executives, employees and underwriters, the officials said.  For more, click here.  Icelandic Banks Ignore Request Not to Sue Over Loans, RUV Says  Icelandic banks ignored an Economy Ministry request to give
up the right to sue the state over legislation that may result
in lenders having to forgive higher amounts of debt, state-owned
broadcaster  RUV  said.  The banks’ creditors threatened to sue the lenders if they
agreed to the request over a parliamentary bill proposed by the
government to cut the debt burdens of households holding so-
called foreign-currency-indexed loans, RUV said, citing no one.  Iceland presented the bill to lawmakers on Nov. 12 after
the Supreme Court declared such loans illegal in two separate
rulings. The legislation seeks to reduce the debt of households
with the loans by an average 1.5 million kronur ($13,388) each,
the  ministry  said in a statement on its website on Oct. 22. The
measure would cost 40 billion to 50 billion kronur, it said.  Kaupthing Bank hf ,  Landsbanki Islands hf  and  Glitnir Bank
hf  collapsed in October 2008 after they were unable to secure
enough short-term funds. The state took control of their local
assets, placing them into newly created separate units.  The units were later taken over by creditors, who control
their shares through resolution committees.  Stern’s DAL Enters Forbearance Agreement With Bank of America  A business run by David Stern, the Florida foreclosure
lawyer who is under investigation by the state’s attorney
general, entered a forbearance agreement with lender Bank of
America NA.  The bank agreed not to take action in the period ending
Nov. 26 over a default on a revolving line of credit by DAL
Group LLC, a unit of Stern’s foreclosure-processing company,
DJSP Enterprises Inc., according to a regulatory filing. The
credit line, entered into in March, has an outstanding principal
balance of about $12 million, DAL said.  Jeffrey Tew, Stern’s lawyer, said earlier this month that
Stern’s law firm and DJSP cut about half of their staff after
mortgage-financing companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac ended
ties with Stern. Florida Attorney General Bill McCollum said he
is investigating Stern’s law firm because it appears to be
submitting “false and misleading” documents in foreclosure
cases.  Stern’s businesses continue to operate and have a total of
400 to 500 employees, Tew said on Nov. 4. DAL received a notice
of default from Bank of America on Nov. 5, according to the
regulatory filing.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Apple Manager Devine Should Forfeit Cash, U.S. Says  Paul Devine, the  Apple Inc.  manager accused of taking
kickbacks in exchange for company secrets, should forfeit all
proceeds from his fraud, prosecutors said in a court filing.  Devine, let out of jail with a $440,000 lien against his
mother’s home to help secure bail, must forfeit cash “derived
from proceeds” of his fraud and money laundering, the U.S.
argued in court documents. Prosecutors are seeking forfeiture of
about $950,000 seized from as many as six different accounts,
and a Porsche Cayenne, according to the Nov. 10 filing.  Devine appeared in court yesterday before U.S. District
Judge James Ware in San Jose, California, where Assistant U.S.
Attorney Michelle Kane said the government needs more time to
review data on computers seized from Devine before returning
them in a pre-trial exchange of information.  The U.S. is analyzing data in “several computers seized
during the search that still need to be turned over,” Kane told
Ware.  Devine, a global-supply manager who for his bond also
posted $612,407 from his and his wife’s foreign bank accounts
plus the equity in his home near San Francisco, is accused of
money laundering and wire fraud in a 23-count indictment
unsealed Aug. 13. He has pleaded not guilty to charges that he
took at least $1 million in kickbacks from Asian suppliers.  Devine gave the suppliers of iPhone and iPod accessories
confidential data that helped them win better contracts from
Cupertino, California-based Apple in exchange for payments,
according to the indictment. Each count of wire fraud, wire-
fraud conspiracy, and money laundering carries a 20-year prison
sentence, prosecutors said.  Devine’s lawyer, Raphael Goldman, declined to comment after
yesterday’s hearing.  Apple spokesman Steve Dowling didn’t immediately return a
call or e-mail seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. Devine, 10-cr-00603, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  Vodafone Told to Set Aside $554 Million in India Tax  Vodafone Group Plc , the world’s biggest mobile-phone
company by sales, was ordered by India’s Supreme Court to pay a
deposit while it challenges a tax bill for the country’s largest
cross-border deal.  A Supreme Court panel headed by Chief Justice S.H. Kapadia
told Vodafone yesterday it has to set aside 25 billion rupees
($554 million) with the court within three weeks and submit bank
guarantees for 85 billion rupees in eight weeks. India is
seeking 112 billion rupees on Vodafone’s purchase of  Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd. ’s local mobile-phone unit three years ago.  The order means the company will likely reflect the deposit
in future financial statements since  Vodafone  didn’t set aside
provisions for the payment, analysts said. A verdict against
Vodafone in the trial may undermine the country’s appeal for
foreign investors, said Paul Marsch, an analyst at Berenberg
Bank in London.  “There’s a bigger issue regarding the clarity of the tax
regime and the regulator regime that foreign companies operate
under in the Indian market,” Marsch said before the
announcement. “There’s no precedent for this situation.”  Vodafone said it will provide the deposit and bank
guarantee, adding that it is “confident that there is no tax
liability resulting from this transaction and all the tax and
legal advice it has received remains consistent with this
view.”  The deposit will be returned with interest if Vodafone wins
the legal dispute, according to the court. The next hearing in
the case will be on Feb. 24.  “It is not standard practice, especially at the Supreme
Court level, although there’s nothing that prevents something
like this from being done,” according to Akil Hirani, managing
partner at Mumbai-based law firm Majmudar & Co. “Deposits in
court are common in areas of banking, property, and so on, and
now obviously you are seeing it happen in the tax space also.”  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest new
suits news, click here. For copies of recent civil complaints,
click here.  Trials/Appeals  Johnson & Johnson Hid Antibiotic’s Risk, Lawyer Says  Johnson & Johnson  knew its antibiotic Levaquin increased
the risk of tendon damage and failed to properly warn patients
or doctors, a lawyer said yesterday at the start of a trial in
Minnesota.  John Schedin, 82, who said he ruptured the Achilles tendons
in both feet after taking the drug, sued the company and its
Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceutical unit in 2008. The companies
downplayed the risks of Levaquin even after receiving adverse
reports from Europe in 2001, Schedin’s lawyer, Mikal Watts, said
in his opening statement at trial yesterday.  “The decision they made was to add a single line to the
14-page package insert somewhere on page four or five,” Watts
told the Minneapolis jury. “They did not tell the doctors that
the use of Levaquin concomitant with corticosteroids will cause
an Achilles tendon to rupture.”  Schedin’s case is the first trial on more than 2,600 claims
in U.S. courts against Johnson & Johnson that Levaquin caused
tendon damage in patients taking the drug and the company failed
to adequately disclose the risk. The U.S. Food and Drug
Administration in 2008 required an upgraded warning on tendon
damage posed by Levaquin and similar drugs.  The plaintiffs claim the warning should have been enhanced
earlier and remains inadequate. They also claim Johnson &
Johnson and Ortho-McNeil-Janssen boosted sales by downplaying
risks.  The companies deny any failure to warn or that Levaquin
caused Schedin’s tendon ruptures.  “The warning has been in the label since December 1996,”
when the drug first came on the market, defense attorney John
Dames said in his opening statement. “It’s not hidden. It’s
right there where you would expect it to be, in the warnings
section.”  Ortho-McNeil “properly warned of the risks of tendon
injury” and “acted responsibly by providing appropriate and
timely information about Levaquin,” company spokesman Michael
Heinley said in an e-mail yesterday.  The lawsuit is Schedin v. Johnson & Johnson, 08-cv-05743,
combined for trial in In Re: Levaquin Products Liability
Litigation, 08-md-01943, U.S. District Court, District of
Minnesota (Minneapolis).  For more, click here.  Wisconsin Insurance Chief Seeks Ambac Plan Approval  Wisconsin Insurance Commissioner Sean Dilweg will ask a
state court judge to approve a plan to “rehabilitate” Ambac
Assurance Corp.’s $50 billion portfolio of policies to
insure residential mortgage-backed securities.  Wisconsin Circuit Court Judge William D. Johnston is slated
to hear five days of testimony and evidence that began yesterday
before ruling on Dilweg’s plan to repay claimants 25 percent of
their money now, and the balance in nine years at 5.1 percent
interest.  “Our decision to adopt a 25/75 cash-surplus note split was
guided by the need to retain sufficient cash to pay all
permitted policy claims during the rehabilitation process,”
Dilweg said in an online  presentation  of his proposal.  The hearing comes as  Ambac Financial Group Inc.  the New
York-based holding company for the Wisconsin insurer, seeks to
reorganize in a Chapter 11 bankruptcy filed in Manhattan on Nov.
8. The parent company has $1.68 billion in liabilities.  Ambac Assurance was the second-largest bond insurer before
the onset of the credit crisis in 2008. Dilweg’s office in March
ordered the carrier to turn over control of its subprime assets
to isolate them from the balance of the insurer’s business as
defaults accelerated the pace of policy  claims , threatening to
deplete the company’s reserves.  Payment of claims on the segregated policies has halted
pending approval of the rehabilitation proposal. Johnston is
hearing the case at Wisconsin’s Lafayette County Courthouse,
about 66 miles southwest of the state’s capital, Madison.  Peter Poillon, a spokesman for Ambac Financial, declined to
comment on the hearing or its significance to the companies,
referring questions to Dilweg. The commissioner, through outside
spokesman Tom Becker, declined to be interviewed for this
article.  Dilweg faces opposition to his plan from policy holders
including the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp., better known as
Freddie Mac, its government-subsidized sibling, the Federal
National Mortgage Association or Fannie Mae, the biggest U.S.
lender, Bank of  America Corp. , and a group of hedge funds
including Aurelius Capital Management LP, King Street Capital LP
and Stonehill Capital Management LLC.  “The plan is flawed on many grounds,” the hedge funds,
calling themselves the RMBS Policy Holders Group, said in a Nov.
10 statement reacting to the tax controversy and stating that
Dilweg failed to fulfill his mandate to protect policyholders.  The case is In re The Rehabilitation of Segregated Account
of Ambac Assurance Corp., 2010cv001576, Dane County, Wisconsin,
Circuit Court (Madison).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Dow Jones Settles Content-Theft Suit With Briefing.com  News Corp. ’s Dow Jones & Co. settled a civil suit
claiming that Briefing.com violated copyright laws by
republishing headlines and articles from its newswire without
permission.  Briefing.com, a fee-based website, agreed to pay an
undisclosed “substantial amount” of money and admitted that it
infringed Dow Jones copyrights as part of the settlement, Dow
Jones said in a statement.  “Dow Jones is committed to aggressively pursuing legal
action to prevent the unauthorized use of our content,” Mark H.
Jackson, Dow Jones general counsel, said in a statement
yesterday.  At the request of the parties, U.S. District Judge Victor
Marrero in Manhattan signed a consent order permanently blocking
Briefing.com from using Dow Jones articles without
authorization. The order, which was publicly filed yesterday,
ends a lawsuit filed by Dow Jones in April and gives Marrero
authority to enforce the provisions of the settlement.  Besides the copyright violations, Chicago-based
Briefing.com admitted to misappropriating news headlines from
Dow Jones under a legal doctrine that prevents publishers from
reselling time-sensitive information produced at a cost by their
competitors.  In addition to publishing material on its website,
Briefing.com delivers content through third parties including
New York-based Bloomberg LP’s Bloomberg News. Bloomberg News
competes with Dow Jones and New York-based News Corp. in
providing financial news and data.  John Lovi, a lawyer for Briefing.com, didn’t return a
voice-mail message seeking comment after regular business hours.  The case is: Dow Jones & Co. v. Briefing.com Inc., 10-
cv-03321, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Netschi Convicted in $80 Million ATM Ponzi Scheme  Walter Netschi, one of two men charged with running an $80
million Ponzi scheme involving phony investments in automatic
teller machines, was convicted of all 10 criminal counts against
him.  A federal jury in Manhattan convicted Netschi on Nov. 12 of
one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud and nine counts of
wire fraud at the end of a three-week trial, according to court
records.  Netschi’s co-defendant, Vance Moore II, pleaded guilty to
all 10 counts on Oct. 18. The two men were charged with stealing
money from investors between 2005 to January 2008, falsely
telling them their money was being used to purchase automatic
teller machines throughout the U.S. Instead, they used money
from new investors to pay off earlier investors in the scheme,
prosecutors said.  U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa set a sentencing hearing
for Netschi on March 2. Moore is scheduled to be sentenced Jan.
20. They face a maximum 20 years in prison on each of the
counts.  Netschi’s attorney, Beth Farber, didn’t immediately return
a message seeking comment on the verdict.  The case is U.S. v. Netschi, 09-CR-881, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 