-- China Sees Faster Gains in Foreign Direct Investment as Economy Rebounds
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-16T03:08:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/foreign-direct-investment-in-china-rises-7-9-in-october-from-year-earlier.html
Foreign direct investment  in China
increased at a faster pace for the third month in October,
underscoring confidence in the outlook for the fastest-growing
major economy and adding to pressure on the nation’s exchange
rate.  Investment  rose 7.9 percent from a year earlier to $7.66
billion after a 6.1 percent gain in September, the Ministry of
Commerce said in a statement in Beijing today. Estimates of six
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News were for increases ranging
from 3.4 percent to 30 percent. Investment in the first 10
months climbed 15.7 percent to $82 billion.  Companies including home furnishings retailer Ikea and
sporting-goods maker Adidas AG are stepping up expansion to
benefit from rising incomes in the world’s most populous nation.
Expectations of an appreciation of the yuan may also be adding
to China’s attraction as an investment destination.  “China’s strong growth and expanding domestic market will
continue to appeal to investors, especially compared with weaker
growth in developed economies,” said  Lu Zhengwei , a Shanghai-
based economist at Industrial Bank Co., before today’s release.
“Expectations of a stronger yuan will fuel capital inflows,
some of which may be disguised as FDI.”  Faster Growth  China’s  economy  has grown more than 9 percent for the past
five quarters as government stimulus and record bank lending
spurred a recovery from the global financial crisis. The
International Monetary Fund estimates China will expand by 9.6
percent next year, four times the pace of the U.S. and six times
more than the euro area.  China overtook Japan as the world’s second-largest economy
for the second straight quarter in the three months through
September, Japan’s government said yesterday. Standard Chartered
Plc forecasts China will surpass the U.S. as the world’s largest
economy by 2020.  The nation’s attractiveness to foreign investors is
boosting inflows of capital, including speculative cash, adding
pressure on the yuan to appreciate and forcing the central bank
to issue more bills to soak up the excess liquidity to manage
the currency’s gains.  The yuan has strengthened 2.8 percent since a two-year peg
against the dollar was scrapped on June 19. The currency rose to
6.6173 on Nov. 11, the strongest since 1993. The central bank
set today’s reference rate at 6.6441 per dollar.  Record Reserves  Ikea , the world’s biggest home-furnishing retailer, said
last month it will add $300 million to the $1.2 billion the mall
developer it part-owns plans to spend in China. Adidas, the
world’s second-largest sports good maker, will add 500 net store
openings in China next year as it seeks to expand at a faster
pace than its competitors, Chief Executive Officer  Herbert Hainer  said in an interview in Shanghai today.  October’s foreign investment, combined with a larger-than-
forecast $27 billion trade surplus, is adding to the nation’s
record foreign-exchange reserves and boosting domestic liquidity
as central bank governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  strives to contain
inflation, which surged to a two-year high of 4.4 percent last
month.  The central bank last month raised the benchmark interest
rate for the first time since 2007 and on Nov. 10 asked lenders
to set aside more money as reserves.  Property Curbs  Concerns that the latest round of U.S. monetary easing may
drive liquidity to China prompted the  foreign-exchange regulator 
to tighten controls on foreign fund inflows.  The  State Administration of Foreign Exchange  yesterday
imposed new limits on foreign purchases of real estate, banning
overseas companies from buying residential properties and only
allowing them to buy office space in cities where they are
registered. Rules for home purchases by foreign individuals were
also tightened.  China’s outbound non-financial investment was $40.5 billion
in the first 10 months of the year, the commerce ministry said
today.  -- Li Yanping , with assistance from  Jay Wang . Editors: Nerys
Avery,  Ken McCallum   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yanping Li  in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  