-- Fortune Brands Swaps Surge on Concern Pershing May Break Up Jim Beam Maker
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-11-16T22:26:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/fortune-brands-swaps-surge-on-concern-pershing-may-break-up-jim-beam-maker.html
Traders buying protection on Fortune
Brands Inc. pushed the swaps to the highest level since April
2009 on concern  William Ackman ’s Pershing Square Capital
Management LP may break up the maker of Jim Beam bourbon.  The contracts jumped 6.7 basis points today to 219.4 basis
points, according to data provider CMA, amid speculation that
Ackman will work on a breakup plan. The swaps are up from 127.4
on Oct. 7, the day before Ackman disclosed an 11 percent stake
in the company, making the New York-based  hedge-fund  its largest
investor.  “Part of the process is either pushing for a shake-up in
management, a sale of the company or a breakup,”  Adrian Miller ,
fixed-income strategist at Miller Tabak Roberts Securities LLC
in New York, wrote in an e-mail. “The stock runs in
anticipation of a takeover, but the debt comes under pressure as
the risk of excess leverage troubles corporate investors.”  Shares in Deerfield, Illinois-based Fortune Brands rose 7
cents, or 0.1 percent, to $57.40 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The stock has risen 10.4 percent since Oct.
7.  Buyers of the company’s credit-default swaps are seeking
protection in part against uncertainty about how much debt will
be added through any transaction, according to  Andrew Kuan ,
senior trader at Primus Asset Management in New York.  Ackman has bought stakes in companies including Target
Corp. and restaurant chain Wendy’s International Inc. and urges
changes he says will boost shareholder returns.  The Wall Street Journal reported Nov. 12 that Fortune
Brands may work with Pershing Square on a breakup plan, citing
people familiar with the matter.  Fortune’s Brands  Fortune’ s businesses include a home and security division,
which makes Moen faucets and windows; a golf division, whose
brands include Titleist and Footjoy; and the spirits and wine
group.  Alcohol sales in the U.S. are expected to rise, Fitch
Ratings said today in a report reaffirming its stable outlook
for the industry.  “Credit protection measures are expected to improve as
cash and free cash flow are prioritized for debt reduction and
operating income is anticipated to grow,” Fitch said.  The company rates Fortune Brands BBB-.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  