-- Vodafone, France Telecom Try to Regain Edge From Apple
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-11-17T10:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/france-telecom-joins-vodafone-in-fight-to-regain-services-edge-from-apple.html
Vodafone Group Plc , France Telecom
SA and other phone companies have been eclipsed by  Apple Inc. ,
Google Inc. and Facebook Inc. in one of the most lucrative
pieces of the booming smartphone market: services.  Now, they’re trying to claw back lost ground.  Seeking to avoid being just pipes that carry services and
applications from Apple,  Google  and others, operators are
starting to go beyond ringtones and links to radio and
television channels to offer apps of their own.  Companies like Apple “need our investment to exist, but
that’s not enough for us to grow,” France Telecom Chief
Executive Officer  Stephane Richard  said in an interview in
Paris. “We need to find ways to be more useful to our clients,
like through mobile banking and electronic health.”  The services tug-of-war will be discussed at the Morgan
Stanley Technology, Media & Telecommunications Conference
starting in Barcelona today. The stakes are high. The worldwide
market for games, entertainment and workplace tools for mobile
devices may balloon to $40 billion by 2014, compared with $14.3
billion this year, according to consulting firm Booz & Co.  Operators have only a small piece of this pie. Revenue at
Facebook, the world’s largest social-networking site, may double
to at least $1.4 billion this year. Apple’s revenue from apps
sold through its iTunes Store rose 22 percent in the latest
quarter to about $1.2 billion, while Google’s sales surged about
23 percent to about $7.3 billion.  Smartphone Rise  In contrast, many large telecommunications companies’
revenue is stagnant or declining, with  Telefonica SA , Europe’s
second-largest operator, and  AT&T Inc. , the U.S.’s largest
carrier, seeing sales slide by 2.1 percent and 0.8 percent
respectively last year.  Mobile devices have become the fastest-growing piece of the
telecommunications market. Smartphone shipments are set to pass
268 million units this year, from 122 million reported by
 Gartner Inc.  in 2007, when Apple unveiled its iPhone and spawned
a new industry.  Users who play games, watch video, send messages and surf
the Internet are showing an insatiable appetite for such
services. Phone companies have steadily increased bandwidth to
enable consumers to access services at super-fast speeds.
They’re discovering, however, that much of the money to be made
is in add-on services.  More Than Speed  “It’s not only about the speed, it’s about what you offer
with that speed,” said  Olivier Baujard , chief technology
officer at  Deutsche Telekom AG , Europe’s biggest phone company.
“The rule will be value-added services in order to maintain the
same ARPU,” or average revenue per user.  In the early days of smartphones, the operators had control
of the user experience. The online portals they managed
typically gave users access to a selection of services such as
games, ringtones and news, with the extra fees going to the
operators themselves.  Apple opened the App Store in 2008, stocked with third-
party software. It has since grown to include more than 250,000
apps, inspiring similar services from Google and  Microsoft Corp.   Operators “had high hopes until 2007 or 2008,” said
Patrik Karrberg, a researcher in the London School of Economics’
Department of Management. The hopes dimmed after the emergence
of iPhones and improved data speeds that made the Internet
directly accessible on handsets.  Portal Death  “They gave up the idea of controlling the entry point,”
Karrberg said. “That was the death of the portal.”  Most smartphone users now access online services through
portals operated by Google, whose Android operating system for
mobile devices was the most popular in the U.S. in the third
quarter, according to market researcher Canalys, or via Apple
and  Research In Motion Ltd.’s  offerings.  Apple gives 70 percent of the revenue from App Store sales
to developers, keeping the rest. Google gives developers 70
percent of Android Market revenue and takes some of the rest in
a “transaction fee,” saving a slice for carriers.  Phone operators’ attempts to drum up interest for their own
branded services have a mixed record of success. Vodafone, the
world’s largest mobile-phone operator by revenue, last year
introduced Vodafone 360, a social networking and apps portal
available on specially designed handsets.  The portal has 790,000 registered users, compared with more
than 500 million on Facebook. When  Pieter Knook , the head of the
360 project, quit in September, Vodafone didn’t replace him.  Payment Platforms  The portal “was an attempt to regain control in this
landscape, but I think it’s quite clear that it hasn’t been
successful,” said  Paolo Pescatore , an analyst with CCS 
Insight in London. “Fundamentally people just want Facebook. 
They don’t want to sign up to other services and platforms.”  Operators also are experimenting with mobile payment
platforms and home entertainment.  Verizon Communications Inc. ,
the largest U.S. mobile operator, has developed in-home networks
that allow buyers of its FiOS fiber-optic TV service watch
television across their laptops, tablets and mobile phones.  A partnership that includes AT&T, Verizon and Deutsche
Telekom’s T-Mobile unit is also working on a mobile-payment
system that would link mobile devices with credit and debit
cards, three people with knowledge of the plans said in August.  Third-Party Billing  Payment platforms are a key opportunity, said  Adolfo Hernandez , the president for operations in Europe, the Middle
East and Africa for network equipment builder  Alcatel-Lucent SA .
“You could visit an online video shop and just say, ‘charge my
phone bill,’” he said.  Vodafone CEO  Vittorio Colao  said on Nov. 9 that the company
is planning to offer third-party billing, allowing other apps to
charge through the company’s existing payment system.  Payment services are a logical area of focus for operators,
since “they know where you are, and they’re allowed to charge
you” through direct debits, LSE’s Karrberg said.  France Telecom is trying to spur growth with mobile banking
services in emerging markets and branded apps including radio
and TV services and a virtual tour of the Versailles gardens
southwest of Paris for the iPhone.  After falling behind the technological curve, phone
operators may face a tough fight to catch up.  With their resources and need for growth, “telecoms need
to be the first movers,”  Ulf Moritzen , who helps manage about 1
billion euros ($1.35 billion) at Aramea Asset Management in
Hamburg, said by phone. “They should have thought of Facebook
themselves.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net ; 