-- French Gastronomy Voted Unesco `Intangible' Heritage in First for Cuisine
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2010-11-16T15:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/french-gastronomy-voted-unesco-intangible-heritage-in-first-for-cuisine.html
It’s official. French gastronomy was
today declared part of the world’s heritage.  A United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization committee meeting in Nairobi picked French food and
Mexico’s traditional cuisine among submissions from 29 countries
for the “intangible” heritage list.  “The choice of good products, mainly rural, the assembling
of dishes and wines, the decoration of the table and the
gestures of smelling and tasting what has been served on the
table” is what contributed to the decision on the French entry,
according to e-mail from the Unesco Paris press office.  The move marks the first time a cuisine has made the list.
The submissions have come from all over the world, with
decisions still being made on many of them.  India proposed its Chhau dance tradition from the country’s
eastern regions. Azerbaijan submitted its handmade rugs, Belgium
the annual carnival organized in the town of Alost, while China
proposed acupuncture and the Beijing opera tradition, according
to Unesco.  France “welcomes this decision, which celebrates the great
wealth of our food and culinary heritage,” Agriculture Minister
 Bruno Lemaire  and Culture Minister  Frederic Mitterrand  said in a
joint statement. The two ministries will take “concrete
measures to preserve” the French gastronomical tradition,
including in schools, they said.  Unesco also added France’s Alencon lace and the traditional
methods of the Compagnons du Tour de France, which comprises
artisans who work with wood and stone on some of the country’s
cathedrals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 