-- U.K. Stocks Fall Most in Three Months; Lloyds, Kazakhmys Slide
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-11-16T17:32:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/ftse-100-benchmark-stocks-fall-hsbc-rio-tinto-standard-chartered-slip.html
U.K. stocks  sank the most in three
months as Ireland held bailout talks amid the resurgent European
debt crisis and concern mounted that China will step up measures
to curb inflation.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc and Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc dropped more than 3 percent. Mining companies Kazakhmys Plc,
Xstrata Plc and Antofagasta Plc retreated more than 4 percent as
copper tumbled in London.  Standard Life Plc  lost 2.7 percent
after Morgan Stanley downgraded the insurer.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  lost 138.51, or 2.4 percent,
to 5,681.9 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, the biggest drop
since Aug. 11. The  FTSE All-Share Index  declined 2.3 percent.
Ireland’s  ISEQ Index  lost 1.7 percent as the nation’s bonds slid
amid concern that European finance ministers might fail to
strike a deal on a financial rescue at a meeting in Brussels
that started this afternoon.  “Concerns over the Irish debt issue has the potential to
degenerate further as the rhetoric continues regarding the
severity of the situation,” said  Will Hedden , a London-based
sales trader at IG Index. “Expectation that Beijing will take
fresh action to moderate growth is adding to market woes.”  A European official with direct knowledge of the talks said
Ireland is in talks with European Union and International
Monetary Fund officials about a bailout that would shore up the
state’s finances as well as enable it to inject capital into the
country’s banks.  Irish Funding  The two-part funding package would mean Ireland wouldn’t
have to tap the bond market for an extended period as it tries
to cut the budget deficit, said the person, who spoke on
condition of anonymity. It would also give the government
capital to help banks if necessary. Ireland says it’s fully
funded into mid-2011.  Lloyds, the U.K.’s largest mortgage lender, declined 4.7
percent to 66.6 pence, leading a  gauge  of U.K. bank stocks to
the biggest drop in three months. RBS, which owns Ireland’s
Ulster Bank, sank 3.5 percent to 40.86 pence. Barclays Plc lost
3.1 percent to 273.8 pence.  Kazakhmys, Kazakhstan’s biggest copper producer, retreated
6.1 percent to 1,421 pence as an  index of mining companies 
tumbled the most since June. Xstrata, the world’s fourth-largest
copper producer, plunged 5.1 percent to 1,311.5 pence and
Antofagasta, which owns copper mines in Chile, slid 5.5 percent
to 1,359 pence.  Chinese Inflation  Chinese Central Bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  today said
China is under “pressure” from capital inflows as a state
newspaper said price controls could be imposed to cool the
fastest inflation in two years.  Zhou reiterated government goals of “moderate” credit
growth and stronger liquidity management at a forum in Beijing
today. The China Securities Journal said price limits are
possible for food, citing unidentified sources.  The People’s Bank of China last month raised its benchmark
one-year lending rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 5.56
percent, the first increase since 2007. Chinese consumer prices
jumped 4.4 percent in October, the fastest pace in two years.
The government’s full-year inflation target is 3 percent.  Standard Life  retreated 2.6 percent to 220.1 pence after
Morgan Stanley lowered its recommendation for Scotland’s biggest
insurer to “underweight” from “equal weight,” saying
“relative valuation is now looking stretched.”  The following stocks either rose or fell in the U.K. and or
Irish markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses.  British Airways Plc (BAY LN) dropped 4 percent to 259.5
pence. The flight-attendant union will seek new talks with the
carrier after agreeing with crew representatives not to
recommend the latest proposals on pay, staffing levels and the
treatment of strikers.  British Land Co.  (BLND LN) dropped 3.4 percent to 489.7
pence. The U.K.’s second-largest real estate investment trust
said second-quarter profit excluding changes in asset values
fell 4.6 percent to 62 million pounds ($99 million).  Enterprise Inns Plc  (ETI LN) lost 9.4 percent to 99.3
pence, the largest drop since May, as the U.K.’s second-biggest
pub owner reported a 7.3 percent decline in full-year revenue to
758 million pounds. Net income climbed to 26 million pounds from
6 million pounds a year earlier, helped by a 52 million-pound
profit from disposals.  ITV Plc  (ITV LN) lost 5.6 percent to 67.1 pence after the
U.K.’s biggest commercial broadcaster forecast television
advertising growth will slow in the fourth quarter. The
broadcaster said TV advertising revenue climbed 16 percent in
the third quarter and will rise 10 percent in the fourth.  TalkTalk Telecom Group Plc  (TALK LN) surged 6.2 percent to
153 pence. The U.K. broadband provider split off from Carphone
Warehouse Plc in March said first-half revenue climbed 12
percent to 887 million pounds and it agreed with BT Group Plc to
offer fiber-to-cabinet services in spring 2011.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 