-- Gap, Wal-Mart Clothing Costs Rise on ‘Terrifying’ Cotton Prices
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-16T01:48:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/gap-wal-mart-clothing-suppliers-raise-prices-on-terrifying-cotton-costs.html
Gap Inc. ,  J.C. Penney Co.  and other
U.S. retailers may have to pay Chinese suppliers as much as 30
percent more for clothes as surging cotton prices boost costs.  “It’s a little terrifying to deal with cotton suppliers
now,” said Vicky Wu, a sales manager at  Suzhou Unitedtex
Enterprise Ltd. , a closely held, Jiangsu province-based clothes
maker that counts  Gap  and  J.C. Penney  among its clients.  Cotton futures in China have surged more than 70 percent
this year and were at a record earlier as the global economy
emerged from recession, allowing people to spend more on
clothes. Production of the fiber in China, the world’s biggest
user and importer, is forecast to lag behind demand for a 12th
year, cutting its stockpile to the smallest since 1995,
according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.  “American consumers better get used to rising prices on
the shelves of  Wal-Mart  and other retailers,” said Jessica Lo,
Shanghai-based managing director at China Market Research Group.
“China’s manufacturers are getting squeezed not only by rising
cotton costs but also soaring real estate and labor costs.”  John Ermatinger , Gap’s Asia president, declined to say
whether it would raise prices. “We are going to be mindful of
our competition,” he said in a Nov. 10 interview in Shanghai.
“We are going to be mindful of our consumer. That’s how we’ll
ultimately establish our prices.”  Shandong Zaozhuang Tianlong Knitting Co. , which makes  Polo
Ralph Lauren Corp.  T-shirts and track suits for Le Coq Sportif
Holding SA, has raised prices as much as 70 percent from a year
earlier, said sales manager Fred Hu. “If cotton keeps rising
like this, we will need to lift prices by 30 percent by the
Spring Festival next year or we lose money.”  T-Shirt Price Increase  Closely held Tianlong ships 80 million yuan of clothes to
Europe, North America and Japan annually, and raised the price
of T-shirts it sells to Ralph Lauren to $4 each, from $3.20 in
July, he said.  Unitedtex, which sells $24 million worth of shirts and
jackets annually to  Gap , plans to raise prices by 5 percent to
30 percent for products that will be available in April, Wu said
in an interview. The supplier plans to increase capacity to meet
the retailer’s demand, she said.  “It’s very hard to budget for input cost, if prices are as
volatile as they are,” said  Peter Rizzo , Sydney-based managing
director at FCStone Australia Pty. "It heightens the awareness
of Chinese textile manufacturers to look at risk-management
tools.’’  Cotton-silk blend fabric has surged about 70 percent to
approximately $2.3 a yard since July and prices are now quoted
on a daily basis, manufacturing executives Wu and Hu said.  One-Week Pricing  “We can give clients a price now, but it will only be
valid for a week,” said Tianlong’s Hu.  Some manufacturers aren’t taking orders for next year
because of fluctuating cotton prices,  J.C. Penney  Chief
Executive Officer Myron Ullman said Nov. 12.  “If cotton goes up 50% or 70%, or wherever it lands, there
will be an impact on pricing that everybody in our industry is
going to feel, but our objective is to have a competitive
advantage, particularly on key price points the customer would
expect us to maintain,” he said.  China’s demand for cotton outstripped domestic production
by 3.6 million metric tons in 2009 to 2010, widening a supply
deficit, the  China Cotton Association  said Sept. 27.  Cotton production in China, forecast to consume about 41
percent of the global harvest, may lag behind demand by 17
million bales in the year that began Aug. 1, according to the
USDA. That’s more than enough to make a pair of jeans for every
person in China and India, according to Bloomberg calculations
and  data  on the National Cotton Council of America’s website.  Crimped Margins  Clothes makers are beginning to lose money on some orders,
Unitedtex’s Wu said. “Even if we know we’ll lose money with
this order, we’ll still do it, hoping to make up the loss in the
next deal,” she said.  Gross margins for clothing retailers’ suppliers are between
10 and 20 percent, and net margin is usually between 3 percent
and 5 percent, according to Wu and Hu.  Zhejiang province-based  Ningbo Seduno Group , which sells
about $30 million worth of men’s and women’s clothes to  Hennes &
Mauritz AB  annually, increased prices by almost 20 percent since
July, said sales manager Fiona Xu. Seduno also supplies  Adidas
AG ,  Inditex SA ’s Zara and Nike Inc.’s Umbro Plc, and
will keep raising prices as cotton costs increase, Xu said.  H&M Monitoring  “H&M is constantly monitoring the price of cotton and
other costs,” said spokeswoman Jenni Tapper-Hoel, who wouldn’t
comment on whether it would raise prices.  Adidas sees a “limited impact” from cotton prices, said
spokeswoman  Katja Schreiber .  Zhejiang Datu Garments Co Ltd. , which shipped $4 million
worth of pullovers to  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  last year, raised
prices to $9 a piece from $7.50 in August, said sales manager
Bella Weng. Wal-Mart spokesman Kevin Gardner declined to
comment.  Zhejiang-based Datu plans to further raise prices by 20
percent to 30 percent, she said earlier this month at her Canton
Fair booth, which was filled with polo shirts and pullovers that
she said were made for Wal-Mart.  “We’ve been holding up fairly well even with the yuan
rising,” Tianlong’s Hu said. “Cotton prices are just more
unpredictable. We’re facing a real test.”  -- Michael Wei  and  Luzi Ann Javier . With assistance from 
 Lauren Coleman-Lochner  in New York,  Armorel Kenna  in Milan,
 Holger Elfes  in Dusseldorf. Editors:  Frank Longid , 
[bn:PRSN=1] Joshua Fellman  To co []ntact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Wei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7717 or
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  