-- 
GE Awards $63 Million to 10 Solar, Home Efficiency Startups

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-06-23T14:49:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/ge-spreads-55-million-among-12-winners-in-power-grid-challenge.html
  General Electric Co. (GE) , the world’s
largest maker of power-generation equipment, awarded $63 million
to 10 closely held companies developing solar and renewable
energy technologies.  Solar power companies, makers of communications equipment
and software and building efficiency developers were among those
recognized in the second round of the $200 million contest,
Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE said today in a statement.  GE is spending about $10 billion by 2015 developing
environmentally friendly products across its businesses through
Chairman  Jeffrey Immelt ’s “ecomagination” program. The contest
is being run in collaboration with the venture-capital firms
 Emerald Technology Ventures AG , Foundation Capital, Kleiner
Perkins Caufield & Byers and RockPort Capital Partners.  Winners in the latest round include San Francisco-based
residential solar installer SunRun Inc., Boston-based  Ember
Resources Inc. (EBR) , a Boston software and communications provider,
and Austin, Texas-based Nuventix Inc.  Awards were also given to companies that improve the energy
efficiency of buildings, including  VPhase Plc (VPHA) , based in
Manchester, U.K., Project Frog Inc. in San Francisco, and solar
installer GMZ Energy Inc. of Waltham,  Massachusetts .
Communications companies Hara, On-Ramp Wireless Inc., Viridity
Energy Inc. and WiTricity Corp were also winners.  GE didn’t disclose the amount of the funds that came from
its venture-capital partners. When GE announced winners of the
first contest, with a prize pool of $55 million, it planned to
contribute about half the total. GE projects the power grid
technology market will reach $20 billion by 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 