-- General Motors Raises Price Range in Initial Stock Sale to $32-$33 a Share
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2010-11-16T21:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/general-motors-raises-price-range-in-initial-stock-sale-to-32-33-a-share.html
General Motors Co.  plans to raise as
much as $12 billion in the second-largest U.S. initial public
offering on record after increasing the asking price by 14
percent, according to a regulatory filing today.  GM, 61 percent owned by the U.S. Treasury, is now selling
365 million shares at $32 to $33 each, today’s filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission said. The IPO was already
multiple times oversubscribed at the original range of $26 to
$29 apiece, according to two people familiar with the deal. GM’s
underwriters also plan to exercise an option to buy 54.8 million
more shares, the people said.  The IPO, scheduled for tomorrow, will help Chief Executive
Officer  Dan Akerson  return some of the $49.5 billion GM received
in a taxpayer bailout last year. The Treasury, which is taking a
loss on its portion of the sale, will break even only if the
shares climb at least 50 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. At $33 each, the sale would give the Detroit-based
automaker a market value of almost $50 billion, compared with
Ford Motor Co.’s  $57.3 billion .  “There’s much more demand for the shares they’re
offering,” said  Josef Schuster , the Chicago-based founder of 
IPOX Capital Management LLC, which oversees $3 billion.
“They’ve done an extremely good job in marketing this IPO.”  Visa’s IPO  The IPO would be the second-largest in U.S. history, after
San Francisco-based  Visa Inc.’s  $19.7 billion sale in March
2008, and comes 16 months after  GM  emerged from bankruptcy. The
biggest U.S. automaker also increased a preferred stock offering
to $4 billion today, $1 billion more than it had planned.  GM is selling shares after the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index 
rose to a two-year high this month on speculation that the U.S.
economy won’t slip back into a recession. The benchmark gauge
for U.S. equities fell for a  fourth straight day  today, the
longest losing streak since August, even after U.S. factory
production increased in October by the most in three months.  Shares of  Ford , the second-largest U.S. automaker, surged
to $17 yesterday, its highest closing price since Jan. 8, 2004,
before slipping  2.9 percent  to $16.51 today in New York Stock
Exchange trading.  “The Detroit automakers are finally right-sized and
smart,” said  Frank Ingarra , co-portfolio manager at Novato,
California-based Hennessy Advisors Inc., which oversees $900
million including Ford shares. “They finally got some tough,
good management in there finding better ways to do things.”  Earnings Results  GM reported third-quarter net income of $2.16 billion last
week, bringing its  earnings  this year to $4.77 billion. That
tops the $4.46 billion profit by Toyota City, Japan-based  Toyota
Motor Corp. , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Demand for the IPO has been strong enough that GM and the
Treasury discussed whether to sell shares in excess of the
current overallotment option, four people familiar with the
offering said. They declined to be identified because the
discussions are private.  GM is seeking to sell as many shares as possible to reduce
the government’s stake, and the automaker’s banks want a larger
offering to increase the fees they’ll earn, said  Maryann Keller ,
founder of a self-named consulting firm in Stamford,
Connecticut. The Treasury prefers to sell fewer shares at higher
prices so it can more easily recoup its investment, she said.  Breakeven Price  The Treasury needs to sell  GM  stock at an average of $43.67
each to break even on its entire investment, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That means the shares would have to climb to
almost $50 for the government’s remaining stake to offset its
loss in the IPO, the data show.  At $33 a share,  GM  is valued at 7.8 times this year’s
earnings, based on its net income in the first nine months of
2010. Dearborn, Michigan-based  Ford  trades at  8 times  analysts’
estimates for 2010 profit, the data show.  While GM will have positive earnings before interest and
taxes in the fourth quarter, they will be “significantly
lower” than the first three quarters of the year, Akerson said
on a Nov. 10 conference call. Ford said in an Oct. 26 conference
call that fourth-quarter earnings will be “lower compared with
recent quarterly results.”  “You’re investing in the fourth quarter now to have better
results in 2011 and 2012,”  David Whiston , a Chicago-based
analyst at Morningstar Inc., said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “It does take money to make money. You have to
invest to get the product out the door, and it’s a highly
capital-intensive industry.”  Relative Value  GM, which lost $82 billion from 2005 to 2008, was  valued  at
an average of 10.3 times profit from 2000 through 2004, monthly
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Ford  traded at an average of 13
times earnings in the same period.  General Motors Corp. filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection on June 1, 2009, after the failure of New York-based
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008 froze credit
markets and helped cause the longest recession since the Great
Depression.  Without exercising the overallotment, the IPO would lower
the Treasury’s stake to 43 percent, according to GM’s filings.
If the option was used, the stake would drop to 41 percent.  The IPO may reduce the UAW retiree health-care trust’s
stake to 15.3 percent from 19.9 percent, and the Canadian
government may cut its holdings to 9.6 percent from 11.7
percent, according to SEC filings.  GM’s underwriters planned to stop taking orders for shares
at 4 p.m. New York time today, according to a person familiar
with the IPO.  Kuwait, SAIC  The Kuwait Investment Authority may buy a stake of 1
percent or less, one person familiar with the deal said
yesterday. Shanghai-based  SAIC Motor Corp. , GM’s partner in
China, will probably be among the buyers, three people familiar
with the plans said last week.  Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp.
and Citigroup Inc. are leading the IPO that includes 35
underwriters, the filings said. Barclays Plc, Credit Suisse
Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Royal
Bank of Canada are also listed in the prospectus.  GM’s common shares will be listed on the New York Stock
Exchange under the ticker  GM  and on the Toronto Stock Exchange
under the ticker GMM, the SEC filing showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 