-- Irish Bonds Decline Before Finance Ministers Aid Meeting; Greek Debt Drops
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2010-11-16T17:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/german-bonds-fall-as-ireland-signals-further-willingness-to-accept-eu-aid.html
Irish bonds fell for the first day
in three as Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  said he doubts a concrete
agreement will be reached to resolve the government’s fiscal
crisis at a meeting of European finance ministers today.  The drop drove the extra yield investors demand to hold
Irish 10-year debt instead of similar-maturity German bunds 22
basis points higher, the first gain in three days. Insurance
protecting against a default by Irish securities rose 22 basis
points to 515. Greek bonds fell after Austria threatened to
withhold its share of an aid package, saying the Mediterranean
nation hasn’t met commitments to the European Union.  “Until there is some concrete news out of Ireland, spreads
will remain under pressure,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-
income strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank
in London.  The yield on the 10-year Irish bond gained 31 basis points
to 8.46 percent at 5:04 p.m. in London. The 5 percent security
due October 2020 dropped 1.72, or 17.2 euros per 1,000-euro
($1,351) face amount, to 77.37. German 10-year bund yields rose
six basis points to 2.63 percent.  Ireland is in discussions with “partners” on how best to
stabilize its banking system, Cowen told state broadcaster RTE
in an interview late yesterday, while repeating the government
hasn’t asked for a bailout.  The difference in Irish 10-year yields, or the spread, over
bunds widened to 562 basis points, or 5.62 percentage points,
according to Bloomberg generic data.  Aid Talks  The spread widened further after a European official said
Ireland is in talks with European and International Monetary
Fund officials about a bailout that would enable injection of
capital into the country’s banks. The two-part funding package
would mean Ireland wouldn’t have to tap the bond market for an
extended period as it tries to cut the budget deficit, said the
person, who spoke on condition of anonymity.  Ireland is “edging” toward accepting aid for banks, the
Dublin-based Irish Independent reported, without citing anyone.
To fend off a bailout for the state, Irish Finance Minister
 Brian Lenihan  is “poised” to agree on a bank injection, the
newspaper said today. A separate report, in the Irish Times,
said it was too early to predict the outcome.  While Ireland is fully funded until the middle of next
year, the yield on Irish 10-year bonds soared to a record 652
basis points above bunds on Nov. 11.  Portugal ’s yield spread
over Germany climbed to a record 484 basis points the same day.  Greece, Austrian Criticism  The yield on the Greek 10-year bond rose 27 basis points to
11.82 percent, while the two-year yield jumped 70 basis points
to 11.96 percent. The 10-year Greek yield spread over Germany
widened seven basis points to 893 basis points, or 8.93
percentage points, according to Bloomberg generic data.  Greece isn’t meeting its target on tax revenue and Austria
won’t approve releasing its next tranche of European Union aid
to the country, Austrian Finance Minister  Josef Proell  said
today. The December installment of aid would be about 190
million euros, Austrian broadcaster ORF said.  “We are getting indications that the Greeks can’t stick to
their plan in a sufficient manner, in particular on the revenue
side,” Proell said, according to an e-mail by spokesman Daniel
Kapp that cited remarks Proell made after an Austrian government
meeting today. “The data we have at the moment doesn’t give any
reason to approve the December tranche from the Austrian point
of view,” Proell said, according to the statement.  Credit-default swaps on Greece soared 86 basis points to
944, the highest since June 29, according to data provider CMA.  Greek Auction  Greece received a 110 billion-euro three-year bailout from
the International Monetary Fund and the European Union in April.
A 750 billion-euro stability facility was created the following
month to provide umbrella protection to other euro region
countries, initially causing yield spreads to plunge.  Greece’s budget deficit was revised up to 15.4 percent of
gross domestic product last year and will be 9.4 percent of GDP
in 2010, Eurostat and the Greek Finance Ministry said yesterday.  The revisions mean that Greece won’t achieve the deficit
targets it agreed to in return for the EU-IMF emergency loans.
Greece’s government had targeted spending cuts and revenue
increases to bring the budget gap to 7 percent of GDP in 2011
from 7.8 percent this year.  Greece sold 390 million euros of 13-week Treasury bills
today. The securities were sold at a yield of 4.10 percent,
compared with 3.75 percent the last time they were sold on Oct.
19, the Public Debt Management Agency in Athens said. Investors
bid for 4.98 times the securities offered, versus a bid-to-cover
rate of 5.19 at the last sale, the debt agency said.  German Confidence  Bund yields stayed little changed after a report showed
German investor confidence increased for the first time in seven
months in November.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of investor and analyst expectations in Germany,
which aims to predict developments six months ahead, increased
to 1.8 from minus 7.2 in October. Economists predicted a reading
of minus 6, according to the median of 33 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Portuguese yields climbed as political wrangling kept the
nation from agreeing to measures that will reduce its budget
deficit. A request by Ireland for aid from the European
Financial Stability Facility would increase pressure on
Portuguese debt, Citigroup Inc. said.  Portugal Pressure  “Other peripheral markets remain at considerable risk of
contagion” from Ireland,  Steven Mansell , a fixed-income
strategist in London, wrote in an investor note today. “If
Ireland does eventually turn to the EFSF, this will likely exert
considerable pressure on Portugal, given their needs to tap the
bond markets during the first quarter of the New Year.”  The German-Portuguese 10-year yield spread narrowed five
basis points to 409 basis points today.  Spain sold 5 billion euros of Treasury bills, less than the
maximum target of 5.5 billion euros set for its regular monthly
auction. The Treasury sold 3.73 billion euros of 12-month bills
at an average yield of 2.363 percent, compared with 1.842
percent when the securities were last sold on Oct. 19. It also
sold 1.24 billion euros of 18-month bills at 2.664 percent
compared with 2.009 percent last month.  Demand for the 12-month paper was 1.9 times the amount
sold, compared with 2.06 times in October, and 3.66 times for
the longer-dated bills, up from 2.03 last month.  The yield spread for 10-year Spanish debt over bunds
widened four basis points to 198 basis points.  Cyprus’s bonds were little changed after the island nation
had its long-term sovereign credit rating lowered to A from A+
by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services today. S&P said it’s still
negative on the outlook for Cyprus’s creditworthiness, given
“increased vulnerabilities” of the nation’s financial system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  