-- German Investor Confidence Gains More Than Forecast
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2010-11-16T10:37:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/german-investor-confidence-rises-for-first-time-in-seven-months-on-growth.html
German  investor confidence  rose for
the first time in seven months in November as the economy,
Europe’s largest, powered ahead of its euro-area neighbors.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its  index  of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict developments six months ahead, increased to 1.8 from
minus 7.2 in October. Economists expected a gain to minus 6,
according to the median of 33 forecasts in a Bloomberg News
 survey .  Germany’s economy will expand 3.7 percent this year,
according to the government’s council of economic advisers. That
would be  fastest growth  since 1991. The performance contrasts
with fellow euro-region nations such as Ireland and Greece,
whose economies are contracting as their governments slash
spending to rein in budget deficits.  “Germany is not really affected by the debt crisis and if
anything there is confidence that it will be sorted soon,” said
 Aline Schuiling , an economist at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam.
“The outlook for the global economy has improved in recent
weeks and that bodes really well for Germany.”  ZEW said its gauge of the current situation increased to
81.5 from 72.6. The euro rose after the report to $1.3612 from
$1.3592 beforehand.  The benchmark  DAX share index  has risen 10 percent in the
last six weeks, unperturbed by Ireland’s worsening fiscal crisis
as German companies reported higher profits.  Profits Surge  Of the 28 companies on the DAX that have announced
quarterly results since Oct. 7, more than two thirds have beaten
analyst estimates for per-share income, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Linde AG , the world’s second biggest maker of industrial
gases, said on Nov. 2 that third-quarter profit rose 50 percent.  German export-oriented companies have benefitted from
stronger demand from emerging economies, particularly China.  Volkswagen AG , Europe’s largest carmaker, said on Nov. 12
that October sales rose more than twice as fast as the worldwide
auto-market average, as demand for its VW and Audi models in the
U.S. and China surged.  The German economy grew 0.7 percent in the third quarter
after record expansion of 2.3 percent in the second, outpacing
the euro region as a whole.  Debt Crisis  Still, the sovereign-debt crisis may damp German growth by
curtailing demand for its goods across the region as governments
introduce austerity measures.  Germany is leading a drive to remedy Ireland’s debt woes
before other countries, such as Portugal, succumb to the
speculation that claimed Greece as the first victim.  After 13 straight days of price declines,  Irish bonds  began
to rally late last week as investors bet a bailout is imminent
from the European Union’s 750 billion-euro ($1 trillion) fund,
which was created with help from the International Monetary Fund
in May to stabilize the 16-nation euro economy.  “If May’s experience is anything to go by, Germany will
actually be a beneficiary of the current Ireland/Portugal
crisis,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in
Brussels. “It will weigh on the euro and it’ll keep interest
rates low.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Black  in Frankfurt 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  