-- German Investor Confidence May Have First Gain in Seven Months on Growth
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2010-11-16T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/german-investor-confidence-may-have-first-gain-in-seven-months-on-growth.html
German  investor confidence  probably
rose for the first time in seven months in November as the
economy, Europe’s largest, powered ahead of its euro-area
neighbors.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
will say its  index  of investor and analyst expectations, which
aims to predict developments six months ahead, increased to
minus 6 from minus 7.2 in October, according to the median of 33
forecasts in a Bloomberg News  survey  of economists. ZEW releases
the report at 11 a.m. today.  Germany’s economy will expand 3.7 percent this year,
according to the government’s council of economic advisors. That
would be  fastest growth  since 1991. The performance contrasts
with fellow euro-region nations such as Ireland and Greece,
whose economies are contracting as their governments slash
spending to rein in budget deficits.  “Euro-area fiscal crises haven’t shaken German investor
confidence much in the past and the German economy is still
doing extraordinarily well,” said  Klaus Baader , co-chief euro-
area economist at Societe Generale in London. “Exports remain a
driving force and domestic demand is picking up.”  ZEW’s gauge of the current situation may rise to a three-
year high of 75 from 72.6 in October, the survey of economists
shows.  The benchmark  DAX share index  has risen 10 percent in the
last six weeks, unperturbed by Ireland’s worsening fiscal crisis
as German companies reported higher profits.  Profits Surge  Of the 28 companies on the DAX that have announced
quarterly results since Oct. 7, more than two thirds have beaten
analyst estimates for per-share income, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Linde AG , the world’s second biggest maker of industrial
gases, said on Nov. 2 that third-quarter profit rose 50 percent.  German export-oriented companies have benefitted from
stronger demand from emerging economies, particularly China.  Volkswagen AG , Europe’s largest carmaker, said on Nov. 12
that October sales rose more than twice as fast as the worldwide
auto market average, as demand for its VW and Audi models in the
U.S. and China surged.  The German economy grew 0.7 percent in the third quarter
after record expansion of 2.3 percent in the second, outpacing
the euro region as a whole.  Still, the sovereign-debt crisis may damp German growth by
curtailing demand for its goods across the region as governments
introduce austerity measures.  Germany is leading a drive to remedy Ireland’s debt woes
before other countries succumb to the speculation that claimed
Greece as the first victim.  After 13 straight days of price declines,  Irish bonds 
continued to rally yesterday as investors bet a bailout is
imminent from the European Union’s 750 billion-euro ($1
trillion) fund created with help from the International Monetary
Fund in May to stabilize the 16-nation euro economy.  “Analysts’ judgment should be positive on Germany, but
maybe the latest developments in Ireland have colored their
assessment,” said  Andreas Scheuerle , an economist at Dekabank
in Frankfurt. “Trends haven’t changed, but the news has been
extreme.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Black  in Frankfurt 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  