-- GM IPO Raises $20 Billion Selling Common, Preferred
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h ,   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2010-11-17T23:55:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/gm-ipo-said-to-be-raised-to-478-million-shares-as-u-s-sells-bigger-stake.html
General Motors Co.  raised more than
$20 billion selling common and preferred stock in an initial
public offering that reduced the U.S. government to a minority
shareholder.  GM’s owners, including the U.S. Treasury, sold at least
$15.8 billion of common shares at $33 each, making it the
second-largest U.S. IPO on record after San Francisco-based  Visa
Inc.’s  $19.7 billion sale in March 2008, a statement and data
compiled by Bloomberg showed. An overallotment option and a sale
of preferred shares may boost the total raised to $23.1 billion,
more than the $22.1 billion sold by  Agricultural Bank of China
Ltd.  in the largest IPO of common stock in history.  The offering came 16 months after GM emerged from
bankruptcy and brings Chief Executive Officer  Dan Akerson  closer
to his goal of returning the $49.5 billion the automaker
received in a taxpayer bailout last year. The Treasury, which is
taking a loss on its portion of the sale, will break even only
if the shares climb more than 60 percent, Bloomberg data shows.  “It’s pretty hard to be anything but positive,” said  Uri Landesman , who helps oversee about $500 million as president
of New York-based hedge fund Platinum Partners LLP. The IPO
“shows you that there are people who are very enthusiastic.
People think that this is a viable company,” he said.  ‘Very Patient’  GM’s common shares will be listed on the New York Stock
Exchange under the ticker  GM  tomorrow, a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission showed. It will trade on the
Toronto Stock Exchange under the ticker GMM.  The Treasury needs to sell all of its  GM  shares at an
average price of $43.67 to break even on its investment, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We will only get our money back if we are very patient
and if GM performs very well,” said  Joe Phillippi , principal of
consulting firm AutoTrends Inc. in Short Hills, New Jersey. “GM
will really have to hit the ball out of the park in the next
couple of years.”  At $33 a share,  GM  is valued at 7.8 times this year’s
earnings, based on its net income in the first nine months of
2010. Dearborn, Michigan-based  Ford Motor Co.  trades at 8.1
times analysts’ estimates for 2010 profit, the data show. Ford
has been the world’s most profitable automaker this year through
September.  Relative Value  GM, which lost $82 billion from 2005 to 2008, was valued at
an average of 10.3 times profit from 2000 through 2004, monthly
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Ford  traded at an average of 13
times earnings in the same period.  GM reported third-quarter net income of $2.16 billion last
week, bringing its  earnings  this year to $4.77 billion. While GM
will have positive earnings before interest and taxes in the
fourth quarter, they will be “significantly lower” than the
first three quarters of the year, Akerson said on a Nov. 10
conference call.  “The way they performed in the third quarter, GM is on a
trajectory to reaching a breakeven point for taxpayers,” Anant
Sundaram, a professor at Dartmouth College’s Tuck School of
Business who studies corporate valuations, said in a telephone
interview. “My sense is $36 at the end of the first day is not
at all unreasonable” for GM’s shares, he said.  S&P 500 Index  The automaker is selling shares after the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index  rose to a two-year high this month on speculation that
the U.S. economy won’t slip back into a recession. The benchmark
gauge for U.S. equities fell for the  fourth straight day 
yesterday, the longest losing streak since August, before
closing little changed today.  The Kuwait Investment Authority may buy a stake in GM of 1
percent or less, one person familiar with the deal said
yesterday. Shanghai-based  SAIC Motor Corp. , GM’s partner in
China, probably will be among the buyers, three people familiar
with the plans said last week.  Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp.
and Citigroup Inc. led the IPO that includes 35 underwriters,
according to a GM filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Barclays Plc, Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank
AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Royal Bank of Canada were also
listed in the prospectus.  General Motors Corp. filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection on June 1, 2009, after the failure of New York-based
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008 froze credit
markets and helped cause the longest recession since the Great
Depression.  “Institutional investors are so positive about GM because
the industry is primed to make so much money as it recovers,”
said  Alan Baum , an analyst for Baum & Associates, an industry
consultant in West Bloomfield, Michigan. “GM in the past wasn’t
well positioned for that. Costs are now down and their products
are being well-received.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 