-- Iceland Closer to U.K., Dutch Depositor Deal That May Spark Rating Upgrade
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2010-11-17T14:05:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/iceland-employers-confederation-confirms-icesave-draft-deal.html
Iceland may be weeks away from a
depositor accord with the U.K. and Netherlands that Moody’s
Investors Service said could boost its credit rating as the
island moves a step closer to normalizing its international
relations.  A “final resolution” of the so-called Icesave dispute to
settle foreign depositor claims stemming from the 2008 failure
of  Landsbanki Islands hf  is possible within weeks, the
Reykjavik-based Finance Ministry said yesterday. That would end
more than two years of limbo that saw the U.K. resort to anti-
terror legislation to freeze Icelandic assets and soured the
Atlantic island’s international ties as it embarks on European
Union accession talks.  “A resolution to the Icesave dispute is an important
consideration for the rating,” said Kathrin Muehlbronner, a
London-based credit analyst at Moody’s, in an e-mailed reply to
questions late yesterday. “Hence, a positive resolution would
be positive.”  Iceland’s debt is rated Baa3 at Moody’s and BBB- at
Standard & Poor’s, the lowest investment grades. Fitch Ratings
has ranked the island’s bonds junk since Jan. 5, when President
 Olafur R. Grimsson  blocked an Icesave accord with the U.K. and
Dutch that had won majority backing in parliament. The bill was
subsequently rejected by 93 percent of voters in a March 6
referendum. The three countries have struggled since to agree on
repayment terms of the $5.2 billion loan needed to cover the
depositor losses.  ‘False Dawns’  “Final resolution of Icesave would be an important step
towards normalizing relations with the international financial
community and putting bilateral funding for the international
financial rescue on a firmer footing,” Fitch Senior Director
 Paul Rawkins  said in an e-mailed reply to questions today.  Still, Rawkins said he will “remain cautious” as there
have been “a number of ‘false dawns’ on Icesave.”  Standard & Poor’s won’t comment on the ratings impact of a
possible deal until an Icesave agreement is announced by all
three countries, said  Eileen Zhang , London-based associate
director of sovereign ratings at S&P, in an e-mailed reply to
questions.  Niels Redeker, a spokesman for the Dutch Finance Ministry
in The Hague, told Bloomberg he was unaware of any agreement
being reached. A spokesman for the U.K. Treasury in London said
negotiations are ongoing, without elaborating.  ‘Favorable’  The government is this time targeting broader lawmaker
backing to ensure a smoother passage of a new Icesave bill. The
Independence Party, the largest opposition group, has signaled
it may give its support to the Social-Democrat, Left-Green
coalition. That would reduce the likelihood of a presidential
veto against any new deal on Icesave, as the high-yielding
internet accounts were called.  “I’ve followed the matter through our representative in
the negotiating team and I’ve been informed that there’s a
chance of reaching a much more favorable agreement,” said
 Bjarni Benediktsson , the head of the Independence Party, in a
phone interview yesterday.  Vilhjalmur Egilsson, managing director at the Confederation
of Icelandic Employers, signalled his group would also back a
new accord, in an interview.  “Whether this will indeed have an immediate impact on the
rating will depend on the exact terms of the agreement,”
Muehlbronner said.  ‘Broad Unity’  The draft accord reached carries a 3 percent interest rate
and gives Iceland’s government a nine-month moratorium on paying
interest, the country’s Channel 2 television station said on Nov.
15. The Finance Ministry declined to comment on the details of
any talks. The accord will cost the government 40 billion kronur
($355 million) to 60 billion kronur, the broadcaster said. The
remainder would be covered by the value of Landsbanki assets.  “According to my sources in Brussels, an agreement with
the U.K. and the Netherlands has been ready for a few weeks, but
it hasn’t been introduced as Iceland’s Foreign Minister”  Ossur Skarphedinsson  “is working on achieving broad unity in the
matter in Iceland,” said Eirikur Bergmann, a professor in
political science at Bifrost University, in an interview. “In
that regard, the position of the Independence Party matters
most.”  A possible resolution of Icesave comes as the government is
grappling with a debt relief bill that creditors in the island’s
failed banks have warned may trigger legal action as they try to
protect their interests.  “Icesave is not the only factor driving the rating,”
Muehlbronner said. “There are ongoing uncertainties regarding
banking sector stability, other legal disputes and last but not
least regarding the economic and fiscal outlook.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Omar Valdimarsson  in London at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  