-- Iceland Bank Creditors Warn They Will Fight Debt Relief Measures
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2010-11-16T15:15:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/iceland-creditors-threaten-to-fight-debt-relief-that-depletes-bank-assets.html
Creditors at Iceland’s banks said
they will fight measures that hurt their financial interests
after the government sought a guarantee from the country’s
lenders that they forfeit their right to sue the state.  The administration of Prime Minister  Johanna Sigurdardottir 
last week started talks with lenders, opposition lawmakers and
other interest groups on proposals that include writing down 155
billion kronur ($1.4 billion) in mortgage debt. Creditors are
trying to protect their interests in state-created successors to
Iceland’s failed banks to ensure assets in the new lenders are
used to compensate bond holders.  Creditors “reserve all rights to pursue any and all legal
remedies to prevent the losses caused by the proposed
legislation,” according to a letter signed by Ragnar
Adalsteinsson, a lawyer with Adalsteinsson & Partners
representing the Coordination Committee of the International
Commercial Lenders Group, which includes creditors of  Kaupthing
Bank hf ,  Glitnir Bank hf  and  Landsbanki Islands hf .  Icelandic law requires the board, directors or resolution
committees at financial institutions to safeguard that
institution’s interests, mainly for the benefit of shareholders
and creditors, Adalsteinsson said in the letter, dated Oct. 26.
He confirmed having sent the document to 12 Icelandic banks, in
a phone interview yesterday.  ‘Held Liable’  “If the persons entrusted with this task fail to guard the
institution’s interest or forfeit its rights under law or the
constitution such persons can be held liable under civil law and
in some cases even criminal law,” Adalsteinsson said in the
letter.  Sigurdardottir’s Social-Democrat, Left-Green coalition has
tried to speed up debt-relief measures after as many as 8,000
protestors gathered outside the country’s parliament last month.
Pledges to force banks to forgive debt have met resistance
inside Iceland as pension funds try to protect their assets. A
155 billion kronur write-down would be equivalent to 10 percent
of Iceland’s 2009 gross domestic product.  The Financial Supervisory Authority yesterday said 28
percent of households have mortgage debt that exceeds the value
of their properties, while 63 percent of loans to households and
businesses are non-performing, according to the International
Monetary Fund.  “The fundamental principle” is that “debt beyond ability
to pay be written off, while making sure that the cost of debt
restructuring is not socialized,” Economy Minister  Arni Pall Arnason  said in a statement yesterday, following an
International Monetary Fund Mission report.  IMF View  The IMF on Nov. 14 said it needs more time to assess the
impact of debt-relief measures on the island’s finances before
proceeding with the fourth review of its program. Iceland is
relying on a $4.6 billion IMF-led loan to rebuild its economy.  Iceland’s special prosecutor is investigating former
executives at the failed banks in an effort to reclaim funds
that may have been siphoned off before the lenders collapsed
more than two years ago.  Special Prosecutor  Olafur Thor Hauksson  said searches were
conducted in 16 houses today, adding that interrogations of
suspects are “still underway,” in an e-mailed statement. The
investigation “focused on suspicion of violations against the
penal code,” he said.  ‘Won’t Waive’  Though the banks haven’t provided the state with any
guarantee that they won’t sue, the government will move ahead
with the planned bill, said Helgi Hjorvar, chairman of the
parliament’s economy and tax committee.  “The financial companies are saying they won’t waive their
right to claim damages beforehand,” Hjorvar said in a phone
interview yesterday. “The matter is on the parliament’s
agenda.”  Parliament hasn’t set a date for passing the bill. Today’s
debate will be the first of three. Other measures up for
discussion include limiting debts to 110 percent of property
values or a step-by-step reduction of obligations to 90 percent
of asset values.  The government has already thrown its support behind
measures to reduce debt burdens per household by 1.5 million
kronur on average for debtors relying on foreign-currency linked
loans. Sigurdardottir’s administration also wants to allow
bankrupts to walk away from their debts after two years. The
Economy Ministry on Oct. 22 said it will give lenders up to 60
days to calculate the impact of the proposals on their balance
sheets as it waits for their assurances they won’t sue.  Property Rights  “The fact alone that the government seeks such statements
from stakeholders in advance of the legislation being presented
to the parliament shows that the government seems to acknowledge
that the proposed legislation infringes or may infringe on the
property rights of affected parties,” Adalsteinsson said.  Arion Bank hf, the successor to Kaupthing, which failed in
October 2008, can confirm receipt of the letter representing the
creditors, said head of communications  Ida Bra Benediktsdottir ,
in a phone interview yesterday.  Asking banks to guarantee they won’t sue “is first and
foremost a very unusual request and it doesn’t have any
precedent in this country,” Benediktsdottir said. “The
statement as such possibly violates the interests of the banks
and its owners and therefore the board of the bank can’t agree
to it.”  Kristjan Kristjansson, a spokesman at Landsbanki successor
NBI, also confirmed receipt of the letter, without elaborating.  “Our clients urge you on behalf of your institution to
refrain from signing any statement forfeiting the rights of the
institution, at least without first acquiring full support of
all stakeholders,” Adalsteinsson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Omar R. Valdimarsson  in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  