-- Michael Frayn, Edmund de Waal Become Finalists in Costa Literary Contest
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2010-11-16T19:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/michael-frayn-edmund-de-waal-become-finalists-in-costa-literary-contest.html
Michael Frayn  and Edmund de Waal
were named two of 19 finalists in the  Costa Book Awards , which
pit authors of different genres against one another for a Book
of the Year prize worth 30,000 pounds ($48,000).  Sponsored by  Whitbread Plc ’s Costa coffee-shop chain, the
contest carries prizes of 5,000 pounds apiece for winning books
in five categories, including biographies, novels and poetry.
The five winners then compete for the Costa Book of the Year.  Frayn and De Waal made the shortlist for the Costa
Biography Award, the organizers said in an e-mailed statement.
Frayn, the novelist and playwright who wrote “Headlong” and
“Noises Off,” was tapped for “My Father’s Fortune” ( Faber ),
a memoir of his childhood and father.  De Waal became a finalist with “The Hare With Amber Eyes”
( Chatto & Windus ), in which he travels the world to trace the
lives of the previous owners of 264 Japanese netsuke --
miniature wood and ivory carvings -- that he inherited.  The third contender for the biography prize is Sarah
Bakewell for “How to Live” (Chatto & Windus), a life of French
Renaissance essayist Montaigne.  In the contest for the  Costa Novel Award , the finalists are
Louise Doughty for “Whatever You Love” (Faber); Nigel Farndale
for “The Blasphemer” (Doubleday); Maggie O’Farrell for “The
Hand That First Held Mine” (Headline Review); and Paul Murray
for “Skippy Dies” (Hamish Hamilton).  Costa also announced shortlists in its contests for debut
novels, poetry and children’s books. Winners in the five
categories will be announced on Jan. 5, 2011. The overall winner
of the Costa Book of the Year 2010 will be announced at a
ceremony in London on Jan. 25.  Established by Whitbread in 1971, the prizes seek to honor
the most enjoyable books of the year by writers based in the
U.K. and Ireland. Previous winners of the Book of the Year Award
have included novelists  Sebastian Barry  and  A.L. Kennedy .  To contact the writer on the story:
 James Pressley  in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 