-- Chicago's $195 Alinea, L20 Win Michelin's Top Honors for Obama's Hometown
-- B y   A n g i e   L a u
-- 2010-11-16T18:52:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/michelin-stardust-promises-boost-to-chicago-restaurants-ailing-economy.html
Chicago lost its bid to host the
Olympics,  Oprah Winfrey  is leaving town, and even Mayor  Richard M. Daley  is stepping down. Yet some of the city’s restaurants
are collecting stars -- Michelin stars.  Michelin Guide Chicago 2011 , the city’s first Red Guide and
one of three in the U.S., today awarded its highest rating of
three stars to  Alinea , the avant-garde restaurant set in a north
side brownstone, and another Lincoln Park establishment,  L20 .  Restaurants that win the top ranking may get a 25 percent
bump to business, said  Jean-Luc Naret , the guide’s director.
Chefs and executives say that will ripple into an economic boost
for the city, where unemployment still sits above  10 percent .  “We will get a reputation as a must-visit for foodies,”
said  Laurence Geller , 62, chief executive officer of Chicago-
based  Strategic Hotels & Resorts Inc. , whose Fairmont and
Intercontinental properties are close to a cluster of Michelin
contenders. “The more the city gets a reputation for being a
foodie city, the more tourism will come.”  Chicago joins New York and San Francisco as the only cities
in North America to have a 2011 restaurant guide from Paris-
based  Michelin & Cie. , the world’s  second-biggest tire maker . It
produced the first Red Guide at the turn of the 20th century to
encourage travel by car.  Star Ratings  While each of the restaurants listed in the guide is
recommended, not all are awarded  one to three stars  to signify
excellence. Around the world, 93 restaurants have three stars,
according to Michelin.  Three other Chicago restaurants --  Charlie Trotter’s , Ria
and Avenues -- received two stars while 18 earned a single star.
Michelin said it moved the announcement forward by a day after
the online restaurant review site Yelp leaked the results.  “Just being named in the Michelin guide means you are top
restaurant in the city,” Naret said. “When you receive a
distinction, you definitely are not only the best in this city
-- you are the best in the world.”  Michelin sees Chicago as a place where people love to eat,
Naret said. He expects 40,000 to 45,000 of the city’s guides to
be sold for $18.99 each.  Daley Leaves  The honor arrives as Chicago wrestles with financial
troubles and the most political uncertainty in two decades.
Daley, who announced in September that he wouldn’t seek a
seventh term, leaves the city with an estimated $654.7 million
budget deficit for 2011.  The city’s promoters predict that Michelin will help turn
things around.  “People are going to take a look at that guide and come to
Chicago to fill our restaurants,” said Cathy Domanico, 50,
director of tourism at the  Chicago Convention & Tourism Bureau .
“We have always sold dining as a major destination driver, and
this is only going to enhance our efforts.”  Michelin inspectors hold candidates to a common standard,
Naret said, so three stars in Chicago carries the same weight as
three in Paris. Chefs covet them.  “They’re like golden carrots that we dangle to run
faster,” said Grant Achatz, chef of  Alinea .  Naret Dines  Naret is known to dine at the restaurants in the running
for that distinction. For Alinea, that visit came on a winter
night in January, with Achatz stuck at a fundraiser in the
Cayman Islands.  His staff called to tell him that Naret wanted to come in.
But Alinea was fully booked.  “I don’t care what you do, get the man a table!” Achatz
recalled saying.  Achatz, 36, already has experienced the boost that such
attention can bring. In May, Alinea placed seventh on another
prestigious list, S. Pellegrino’s  World’s 50 Best Restaurants ,
and first for North America.  “Our servers crashed that day,” Achatz said. Since then,
“we’ve been full every night -- Japanese tourists, visitors
from Denmark.”  Alinea’s sales are up 17 percent this year, said Achatz,
whose signature dishes include hot potato cold potato soup.
Diners pull a pin holding the truffle-topped hot potato into
cold soup before downing it like a shot.  Leaving Las Vegas  Michelin added Chicago after dropping Las Vegas and Los
Angeles a year ago. The Los Angeles guide’s sales were
disappointing, Naret said, while home foreclosures and the
faltering economy drained Las Vegas’s best restaurants.  “You have to be able to sell the guides,” Naret said,
leaving open the option to return to those cities.  Michelin inspectors have been visiting Chicago’s top
restaurants for two years, dining anonymously and tasting every
dish on the menu, Naret said.  “For over 20 years, I have been saying that Chicago is by
far one of the greatest food cities in the world,” said  Charlie Trotter , 51, who helped put Chicago on the culinary map and
counts Achatz among his proteges.  Three stars means “exceptional cuisine, worth a special
journey”; two, “excellent cooking, worth a detour”; one, “very
good cooking in its category.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angie Lau  in Chicago at 
 alau42@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net . 