-- Michelin Guide Crowns New Three-Star Restaurant in Switzerland
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2010-11-16T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/michelin-guide-awards-third-star-to-schauenstein-restaurant-in-switzerland.html
The Swiss Michelin Guide today
awarded a third star to Schauenstein, a hotel restaurant in the
town of Fuerstenau in Graubuenden, making it the first venue to
receive the highest ranking in German-speaking Switzerland.  Near the ski resort of  Laax , Schauenstein charges 220 Swiss
francs ($223) for a seven-course menu. Andreas Caminada is the
chef. The total number of three-star restaurants remained
unchanged at two, because one establishment,  Le Pont de Brent 
near Montreux, was downgraded to two stars as its management
changed, Michelin said in a statement sent by e-mail. The second
Swiss three-star restaurant is  Philippe Rochat  in Crissier,
Canton Vaud.  The guide promoted three restaurants to two-star status and
named 14 new one-star eateries, allowing Switzerland to keep its
status as the country with the most Michelin stars per capita.
The new two-star restaurants are  Ecco  in the Hotel Giardino in
Ascona in Italian-speaking Switzerland,  Homann’s Restaurant  in
Samnaun in the canton of Graubuenden, and The Restaurant in the
 Dolder Grand Hotel  in Zurich.  “The Swiss gourmet dining scene has scaled to new
heights,” Michelin said.  Under the Michelin ranking system, one star means a very
good restaurant in its category, two means excellent and worth a
detour and three stars means among the very best restaurants and
worth a special journey.  Michelin & Cie., the world’s biggest tiremaker, is based in
Clermont-Ferrand, France, and has been publishing dining guides
for more than a century.  The 520-page Michelin Guide Switzerland 2011 goes on sale
on Nov. 18.  To contact the writer on the story:
 Catherine Hickley  in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net  