-- Michigan Republicans May Fill Void as GM, Ford Allies
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e ,   J e f f   G r e e n   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2010-11-16T15:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/michigan-republicans-may-fill-dingell-void-as-gm-ford-friends-in-congress.html
General Motors Co .,  Ford Motor Co .
and Chrysler Group LLC may get relief from regulations such as
higher fuel-economy standards as Michigan Republicans seek posts
leading two U.S. House committees.  Representative  Fred Upton  of Kalamazoo is among candidates
to become chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee,
which oversees legislation on vehicle-safety and emissions, and
Republican  David Camp  from Midland is in line to head the House
Ways and Means Committee, which sets policy on tax issues.  “The election was a piece of luck for Detroit,”  Sean McAlinden , chief economist at the Center for Automotive Research
in Ann Arbor, Michigan, said in an interview. “When they needed
a Democrat to bail them out with a bankruptcy, they got Obama.
Now they need Republicans to fight these fuel mandates, and
maybe even slow them down.”  Leadership positions for Upton and Camp would return the
Michigan-based companies to the influence they had when
Representative  John Dingell  from the state led the Energy and
Commerce Committee, according to McAlinden, who advised
President  Barack Obama ’s auto task force. Dingell was ousted two
years ago as chairman by fellow Democrat  Henry Waxman  of
California. Waxman and Dingell will remain on the committee when
Republicans take control of Congress next year.  The Obama administration provided government financing to
rescue Detroit-based GM and Chrysler of Auburn Hills, Michigan,
through planned bankruptcies.  GM IPO Price  GM plans to raise as much as $12 billion in an initial
public offering, according to a regulatory filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission today. The automaker
increased the price at which it’s seeking to sell 365 million
shares to a range of $32 to $33 each, from $26 to $29. The sale
may trim the U.S. government’s stake to 43 percent from 61
percent.  Dingell helped automakers fend off tougher fuel-economy
rules when he was Energy and Commerce Committee chairman, while
his successor Waxman supported raising the standards. Now, the
administration is weighing the possibility of almost doubling
fuel-economy standards to 62 miles per gallon by 2025 models,
based on an administration analysis released Oct. 1.  “One of my roles will be to use oversight to really
control the job-killing, mind-numbing regulation” from the
administration, Upton said in a Nov. 9 interview. “We will
prevent the administration from regulating what it can’t
legislate.”  Regulatory, Tax Burdens  Upton has support from Camp and Michigan Representative
 Mike Rogers  of Lansing for the Energy and Commerce Committee
chairmanship in a contest with Representative  Joe Barton  of
Texas, a former chairman and currently the senior Republican on
the panel.  “Fred fully understands the regulatory and tax burdens
being placed not only on manufacturers and automakers, but our
entire economy,” Camp said Nov. 10 in an e-mail.  The Republican “lineup clearly will be more supportive”
of the auto industry on issues such as fuel economy, said  Dave McCurdy , a former Democratic representative from Oklahoma who
heads the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, a Washington-
based trade group.  “I don’t think that’s just Michigan-based and it doesn’t
just apply to domestic manufacturers,” McCurdy said in an
interview.  Obama failed to reach agreement with South Korea last week
in talks to secure a trade accord. The administration is
pressing Korea to lower barriers to exports of U.S. autos. Ford,
based in Dearborn, Michigan, and the United Auto Workers Union
have pressed for changes in the initial agreement.  ‘Pass Muster’  “We’re focused on getting it in place to pass muster in
Congress and that demands effort on autos,” said Sage Eastman,
Camp’s press secretary.  The auto industry also is seeking passage of a tax credit
to offset costs for research and experimentation, Eastman said.
On a per-capita basis, Michigan was the largest user of the
credits, which expired last year, he said.  Clarence Ditlow , executive director of the Center for Auto
Safety, said he doesn’t expect Republican control to lessen a
focus on auto safety after  Toyota Motor Corp .’s recalls of more
than 8 million vehicles in the past year for unintended
acceleration.  “‘All the manufacturers realize that that type of safety
crisis is not in their benefit,” Ditlow said.  Issa on Toyota  Ditlow said Upton and Representative  Darrell Issa , a
California Republican in line to lead the House Oversight and
Investigations Committee, had held Toyota accountable during
Congress’s hearings about acceleration issues.  Tea Party-backed candidates who won seats in the House by
campaigning against federal regulation and spending, including
the GM and Chrysler bailouts, may lead opposition to increasing
fuel-economy standards, said  Russ Harding , senior environmental
policy analyst at the Mackinac Center for Public Policy and
director of the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality
from 1995 to 2002.  “This stuff that Obama and some of the Democrats are
talking about on the fuel standards is fantasyland,” Harding
said. “You’re not going to achieve those numbers with
technology we know about in this day and age.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Angela Greiling Keane  in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net . 