-- IMF's Ukraine Mission Recommends $1.6 Billion Payment, Backs Economic Plan
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2010-11-16T16:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/imf-s-ukraine-mission-recommends-paying-next-1-6-billion-loan-installment.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
mission to Ukraine endorsed the government’s progress on its
economic program, clearing the way for the IMF to release the
next $1.6 billion bailout payment to the country.  The IMF board will make a final decision on the loan
payment by the end of the year, after the government fulfills
conditions for the funding, the Washington-based lender said
today in a statement. Ukraine has pledged to cut its budget
deficit to 3.5 percent of gross domestic product in 2011 from
5.5 percent this year.  Ukraine “remains committed to fiscal consolidation,” IMF
Mission Chief  Thanos Arvanitis  said in the statement. “The
needed adjustment to achieve the deficit target will be focused
on expenditure rationalization, while preserving essential
investment projects and social programs for the poorest.”  The IMF agreed in July to provide $15.2 billion of loans to
Ukraine, the country’s second bailout in two years after the
global financial crisis cut demand for its exports and the
economy shrank 15.1 percent in 2009. Payments under the first
program were frozen last November after the previous government
failed to cut spending prior to January presidential elections.  The conditions Ukraine must fulfill probably include
submission of the 2011 budget to parliament, said  Anna Zadornova , a London-based economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
Azarov has said the government will submit the budget once
lawmakers adopt a new tax code, which is being debated today.  Reducing Risk  “It is likely that the government will push the 2011
budget through the parliament in December and comply with any
other requirements in the coming weeks, securing the
disbursement,”  Zadornova  said in an e-mailed note to clients.
“The positive decision should support Ukrainian assets by
lowering the country risk premium.”  Once the payment is approved, Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov ’s government will be able to use $1 billion of the funds
to finance the deficit, Arvanitis said in the statement.  The IMF and Ukraine also agreed on steps to improve the
foreign currency market, including development of a forward
market, according to the statement.  The hryvnia gained 0.3 percent to 7.9467 per dollar as of
11:03 a.m. in Kiev. The Ukrainian currency, which has gained 0.8
percent against the dollar this year, fell 45 percent in the 12
months through August 2009, making it the worst performer among
more than 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  ‘Price Stability’  Ukraine’s annual  inflation rate  slowed to 10.1 percent in
October after jumping to 10.5 percent the previous month as
droughts in Ukraine, Russia and other grain-exporting nations
forced global food prices higher.  “Monetary policy will be reoriented toward price stability
and core inflation is expected to continue on a declining
trend,” Arvanitis said. “The central bank should remain
vigilant to possible second-round effects on inflation stemming
from recent food and administrative price increases.”  In addition to reducing spending, Ukraine must cut the
deficit at state-run energy company NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy,
strengthen the pension system and make changes in public
administration, Arvanitis said.  Ukraine raised the price of natural gas for households and
businesses by 50 percent on Aug. 1, and it pledged to raise the
retirement age for women to 60 from 55 over the next decade in a
memorandum with the IMF signed in July.  Deputy Prime Minister  Serhiy Tigipko  said this month that
the government would like to keep the retirement age for women
unchanged and will discuss that with the IMF. The government
hasn’t yet submitted a pension law to parliament.  “While the government has demonstrated its ability to meet
short-term quantitative program targets, implementation of
structural reforms is likely to be more challenging,” Zadornova
said. “The key issue is the pension reform.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daryna Krasnolutska  in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  