-- Indian Auditor Says State Lost 1.4 Trillion Rupees in Mobile Airwaves Sale
-- B y   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y   a n d   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2010-11-16T12:42:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/india-auditor-says-state-lost-1-4-trillion-rupees-in-mobile-airwaves-sale.html
India’s federal treasury may have
lost as much as 1.4 trillion rupees ($31 billion) in revenue
after telecommunications airwaves were sold below market rates
two years ago, the government’s auditor said.  The Indian government collected only 123.9 billion rupees
from the sale of the so-called second-generation wireless
spectrum to companies, the  Comptroller and Auditor General of
India  said in a report submitted to parliament in New Delhi
today. The airwaves were sold in 2008.  In contrast, India raised 677.2 billion rupees selling
third-generation wireless airwaves in May. Phone companies in
Europe paid more than $100 billion for similar high-speed
spectrum in auctions across the continent in 2000.  Andimuthu Raja , resigned on Nov. 14 as the nation’s
telecommunications minister after a year-long investigation into
the sale of the wireless spectrum. The Central Bureau of
Investigation has been examining the role Raja and the Ministry
of Communications had in the pricing of the permits since
October last year while the Supreme Court has been hearing
public interest petitions on the subject.  The auditor calculated the maximum estimated loss based on
the prices at which the third-generation airwaves were sold in
May. Based on another model, the under-pricing of 2G spectrum
led to a loss of 535.2 billion rupees, according to the report.  ‘Jump the Queue’  The department of telecommunications failed to consider
applications on a “first come, first serve” basis, the auditor
said, allowing some applicants to “jump the queue.” The
process by which the department issued the permits, called
Universal Access Service, or UAS, licenses, “lacked
transparency and was undertaken in an arbitrary, unfair and
inequitable manner,” according to the report.  The department issued 122 new licenses to use 2G spectrum
in 2008, according to the report. Eighty-five of the licenses
were given to “ineligible” recipients.  Companies including  Unitech Ltd. , Tata Teleservices Ltd.,
Shyam Telelink Ltd., now known as  Sistema Shyam Teleservices
Ltd. , and Swan Telecom Ltd., now known as Etisalat DB Telecom
Pvt., sold stakes in their wireless ventures at significant
premiums to the price they paid for spectrum, the auditor said.
 Telenor ASA  spent 61.2 billion rupees for buying a 67.25 percent
stake in its venture with Unitech, the auditor said.  ‘Fraudulent Means’  “These companies, created barely months ago, deliberately
suppressed facts, disclosed incomplete information, submitted
fictitious documents and used fraudulent means for getting UAS
licenses and thereby access to spectrum,” according to the
report. Owners of the licenses, “obtained at unbelievably low
price, have in turn sold significant stakes in their companies
to Indian or foreign companies at high premium.”  The auditor’s report is “based on incorrect footings” and
is “erroneous,”  Shahid Balwa , Mumbai-based vice chairman of
Etisalat DB, said in an e-mail today. “We shall be putting out
a detailed explanation to the concerned authorities, which more
than adequately clarifies the company’s position.”  Rajeev Narayan, a spokesman for Mumbai-based Tata
Teleservices, declined to comment. Tanuja Kehar, a spokeswoman
for New Delhi-based Unitech, and Viraj Chouhan, a Gurgaon,
India-based spokesman for Sistema Shyam, didn’t immediately
respond to e-mails seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abhijit Roy Chowdhury  in New Delhi at 
 achowdhury11@bloomberg.net ;
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  