-- India, Korea Stocks Correlation May Rise, Morgan Stanley Strategists Say
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-11-16T05:09:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/india-korea-stocks-correlation-may-rise-morgan-stanley-strategists-say.html
Investors should use options to bet
that emerging markets stocks will track one another’s movements
more closely after a gauge of correlation fell to the lowest
level since the rally during 2006 and 2007, Morgan Stanley said.  Strategists  Viktor Hjort  and  Sivan Mahadevan  recommended
buying a straddle strategy on India’s  S&P CNX Nifty Index  and
Korea’s  Kospi 200 Index  while selling the equivalent straddle on
a basket of the most-traded stocks in those indexes. They
suggested over-the-counter straddles expiring in six months and
said the trade generates a positive premium because the sale
makes more than the purchase cost. It offers “attractive and
cheap” protection for stocks, they said.  “Being paid a premium to be long emerging markets
correlation means we don’t have to have high conviction on the
timing of catalysts,” the strategists wrote.  Calls give the right to buy a security at a set price and
date, while puts convey the right to sell. Buying a straddle, a
strategy that pairs the purchase of a both a put and call option
with the same strike price and expiration date, is a bet that
the implied volatility, the key gauge of options prices, will
rise for the underlying security. A correlation of -1 means the
securities moved in opposite directions and 1 signals they moved
in lockstep.  “EM realized equity correlation is at multiyear lows and
at levels not even seen during the last bull market,” Hjort and
Mahadevan wrote in a report yesterday. “This has been a sweet
spot for stock pickers and helps explain why EM volatility has
been lower than DM this year, but it’s unlikely to go much
lower.”  Market Correlation  Markets typically become less correlated as the economy
comes out of recession because economic contractions are
systemic events that affect most companies at the same time,
making stock picking difficult, they wrote. Economic recoveries
separate winning and losing companies in industry groups and
regions, pushing stock returns in different directions, they
said.  “Some industry groups and regions recover faster than
others,” Hong Kong-based Hjort and New York-based Mahadevan
wrote. “As economic growth gains pace, idiosyncratic and sector
trends become increasingly important, paving the way for stock
pickers, and correlations -- both between (inter) and within
(intra) markets -- decline.”  Indian and Korean stocks are favorable for the trade
because the benchmark indexes have low volatility levels
compared with their component stocks, according to the report.
The Kospi 200’s implied volatility for six-month at-the-money
contracts is below the equivalent level for the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index , while the average volatility for the most-
traded single stocks is “much higher” than the average for
single stocks in the S&P 500, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 