-- Infineon Plans Buyback, Dividend After Profit Gain
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2010-11-16T22:57:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/infineon-to-pay-first-dividend-in-decade-as-full-year-net-beats-estimates.html
Infineon Technologies AG , Europe’s
second-largest chipmaker, said it will pay its first dividend in
a decade and plans a share buyback after fourth-quarter profit
beat analysts’ estimates.  Infineon shares  rose the most in more than two months after
Chief Executive Officer  Peter Bauer  told analysts on a
conference call today that he will propose a buyback of up to 10
percent of the company’s shares at its February annual meeting.  Infineon proposed a  dividend  of 10 cents a share for the
year ended September, the first since a payment for fiscal year
2000.  Net income  for the three months ended Sept. 30 rose to 390
million euros ($530 million), or 36 cents a share, from 11
million euros, or 1 cent, in the year-earlier quarter, the
Neubiberg, Germany-based  company  said in a statement. That beat
analysts’ average estimate of 216.2 million euros.  “From an operational standpoint, everything is better than
expected,” analyst  Jerome Ramel  of Exane BNP Paribas in Paris
said. He maintains an “outperform” rating. “They’re going to
pay a dividend, which is good news.”  Infineon, whose chips go into cars, mobile phones and other
electronic devices, is benefitting like its rivals from higher
demand following the economic slowdown, which hurt sales and
profit last year. Sales from continuing operations in the
quarter advanced to 942 million euros from 609 million euros
during the same period a year earlier.  “The last quarters’ excellent performance has continued in
the fourth quarter across all the segments,” CEO Bauer said in
the statement.  Infineon shares rose 4.24 percent, the most since Aug. 26,
to close at 6.22 euros in Frankfurt.  Growing Industry  Infineon’s operating margin -- which it calls the segment
result margin -- from continuing operations was 18.2 percent
compared with 15.6 percent in the third quarter.  Infineon said Sept. 21 that fourth-quarter results would be
better than expected and raised its outlook for the fourth time
this year. It predicted that fourth-quarter revenue would rise
by about 15 percent from the previous quarter and the operating
profit margin would be 18 percent to 20 percent.  In August, Infineon agreed to sell its unit that makes
semiconductors for wireless devices such as Apple Inc.’s iPhone
to  Intel Corp.  Infineon said that after the disposal it will get
most of its sales from chips for power and energy-efficiency
applications such as wind turbines and for cars. Today’s figures
excluded results from this business.  Infineon’s growth mirrors that of its rivals. On Nov. 12,
Intel, the world’s largest chipmaker, raised its quarterly
dividend and said it expects 2010 to be its “best year ever”
with “strong cash flows.”  Growth Outlook  STMicroelectronics NV , Europe’s largest semiconductor
maker, on Oct. 26 predicted fourth-quarter revenue would exceed
estimates on strong demand for chips in cards and consumer
products.  Research firm  Gartner Inc.  said in September that worldwide
semiconductor revenue would rise about 32 percent in 2010 to
$300 billion. It warned that sales would slow in the second half
of the year and into 2011 as the global economic recovery is
slowing.  Infineon said today it expects revenue for first quarter of
2011 to be flat or down slightly compared with the fourth
quarter depending on foreign exchange rates, particularly the
strength of the dollar against the euro. For the full year it
expects revenue to grow close to 10 percent, assuming an
exchange rate of $1.40 for the euro.  Commerzbank analyst  Thomas Becker  lowered his rating on the
stock to “add” from “buy” and said in his research note that
he sees “limited short-term catalysts” with Infineon’s core
business already approaching long-term margin targets.  Exane BNP’s Ramel said the forecast is better than he
expected because it assumes a strong euro.  Infineon estimates total investments of 550 million euros
in fiscal year 2011, up from 325 million euros in 2010. Some of
the money will be used to make acquisitions along its main
business lines, Bauer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Connolly  in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 