-- Intel Working With ‘Several’ TV Makers on Web-Connected Devices
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2010-11-16T09:54:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/intel-working-with-several-tv-makers-on-web-connected-devices.html
Intel Corp ., the world’s biggest
chipmaker, is working with “several” global television makers
to introduce models built with its chips as demand for Internet-
enabled products grows.  “We are working with several tier-one original equipment
manufacturers,” Martin Despain, a marketing director at Intel’s
Digital Home Group, said in an interview in Seoul today,
declining to give the names of the companies. Some of the
products may be shown during the  Consumer Electronics Show  in
Las Vegas in January, he said.  Intel, whose processors are already in about 80 percent of
the world’s personal computers, plans to introduce a new chip
that goes into TVs next year, Despain said. Technology firms are
trying to benefit from growing demand for TVs that allow viewers
to buy on-line video games and applications that do anything
from  forecasting  the weather to  measuring  the string tension of
a tennis racket.  The Santa Clara, California-based chipmaker is increasing
investment in developing chips for TVs even as consumers spend
less on buying electronic goods, he said.  “Intel tends to reinvest through downturns in order to be
better prepared for the upturns,” Despain said.  Samsung Electronics Co ., the world’s largest TV maker, is
“open” to using Intel chips in its TVs,  Yoon Boo Keun , head of
the South Korean company’s TV business, said today.  In October, Sony Corp., the world’s third-largest TV maker,
began offering Internet-enabled TVs in the U.S. that use Google
Inc.’s software. Apple Inc. released a $99 TV set-top box in
September that delivers movies and TV show rentals from the
Internet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jun Yang  in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 