-- International Demand for U.S. Assets Declined to $81 Billion in September
-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 2010-11-16T14:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/international-demand-for-u-s-assets-declined-to-81-billion-in-september.html
Global demand for U.S. stocks, bonds
and other financial assets fell in September from a month
earlier, the Treasury Department reported.  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$81.0 billion during the month compared with net buying of
$128.7 billion in August, according to data issued today in
Washington. Including short-term securities such as stock swaps,
foreigners purchased a net $81.7 billion compared with net
buying of $11.2 billion the previous month.  “The U.S. is still an attractive place for foreign
investors, but U.S. yields were pushed lower relative to some
foreign markets in anticipation of the Federal Reserve’s
quantitative easing,” said  Gary Thayer , chief macro strategist
at Wells Fargo Advisors LLC in St. Louis, by telephone after the
data were released. “That may have reduced the attractiveness a
bit. Longer-term, we’re still the reserve currency of the world
and that continues to support inflows.”  The Treasury’s reporting on long-term securities captures
international purchases of government notes and bonds, stocks,
corporate debt and securities issued by U.S. agencies such as
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , which buy home mortgages.  China remained the biggest foreign holder of U.S.
Treasuries, after its holdings rose by $15.1 billion to $883.5
billion in September from $868.4 billion in August, according to
the Treasury’s statistics.  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which moves
inversely to its price, fell to 2.87 percent at 9:34 a.m. from
2.96 percent late yesterday.  Japan, Hong Kong  The Treasury’s statistics on other countries showed Japan,
the second-largest holder, increased its holdings by $28.4
billion to $865 billion in September from $836.6 billion in
August.  Total foreign purchases of Treasury notes and bonds were
$78.3 billion in September compared with purchases of $117
billion in August. Foreign demand for U.S. agency debt from
companies such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac registered net
selling of $8.2 billion in September after buying of $4.6
billion in August.  Net foreign purchases of equities were $20.7 billion in
September after net purchases of $4.8 billion in August.
Investors purchased a net $578 million in U.S. corporate debt in
September after buying $10 billion in August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Vincent Del Giudice  in Washington at 
Or  vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  