-- Iran Says It Has Evidence That Two Detained Germans Entered Country to Spy
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2010-11-16T12:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/iran-says-it-has-proof-that-two-detained-germans-entered-country-to-spy.html
The Iranian prosecutor overseeing
the case of two German detainees said for the first time that
the state can prove they were intent on spying when they entered
the country last month and tried to gather information on a
woman sentenced to death by stoning.  “The espionage crime of the two Germans, who came to Iran
with the aim of creating negative propaganda and spying, is
clear and proven,” Malek-Ajdar Sharifi, prosecutor general of
Iran’s East Azerbaijan province, was quoted as saying late
yesterday by the state-run  Fars  news agency.  The two were arrested Oct. 10 after trying to interview the
son of Sakineh Mohammadi-Ashtiani, the judiciary said. She was
sentenced to death by stoning after her 2006 convictions for
adultery and the murder of her husband, prompting an
international outcry. Iran has condemned the media attention and
the “politicization” of her case. The judiciary said it has
yet to decide whether the stoning sentence will be carried out.  The  International Committee Against Stoning , a campaigning
group, said the two Germans are journalists and were arrested in
the northwestern city of Tabriz while in a meeting with
Mohammadi-Ashtiani’s son, Sajjad Ghaderzadeh, and a lawyer,
Houtan Kian.  Germany’s Spiegel magazine said one of the detainees is a
reporter who wrote for Bild and Bild am Sonntag, focusing on
local Berlin stories and scandals in hospitals. The other is a
freelance photographer who mostly took pictures of musicians and
celebrities, the magazine  said  Oct. 18 on its website.  Foreign journalists need a press visa and accreditation
from the authorities to work in Iran. Iranians working in Iran
for foreign media companies are also asked to get accreditation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net . 