-- Ireland Weighs Aid as EU Spars Over Debt-Crisis Remedy
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-11-16T17:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/ireland-discusses-financial-bailout-as-eu-struggles-to-defuse-debt-crisis.html
Ireland was in talks over a
financial rescue as European Union leaders battled to shield
Portugal from the resurgent debt crisis and doubts surfaced over
Greece’s economic health.  “We are in a survival crisis,” EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said at the  European Policy Centre  in Brussels today.
“If we don’t survive with the euro zone we will not survive
with the European Union.”  Public clashes among EU officials over how to defuse
Europe’s debt bomb marked a new stage in the crisis triggered by
Greece’s near-default in May that forced the EU to set up a 750
billion-euro ($1 trillion) rescue fund to keep the euro intact.
A European Central Bank official threatened to end economy-
boosting measures.  Irish  bonds  fell, reversing a two-day rally, on concern
European finance ministers would fail to strike a deal at a
meeting in Brussels that started at 5 p.m. The euro slid 0.7
percent to $1.3495, down 5 percent since Nov. 4.  “We are discussing with both the ECB and the IMF and of
course the Irish,” EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said on his way into the meeting. “The
real problems are in the banking sector,” not with the
government, “but these are connected.”  Ireland is negotiating with the EU and International
Monetary Fund about aid to shore up the state’s finances,
furnish capital for the country’s banks and spare it from
tapping the bond market for an extended period, the European
official said on condition of anonymity. Spokesmen for the Irish
central bank and Finance Ministry declined to comment.  Irish Yields Rise  The aid package may total about 80 billion euros, according
to Barclays Capital. Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  told Parliament
in Dublin tonight that Ireland hasn’t lodged an aid request and
the goal is “a credible, efficient and above all workable
solution that will provide assurance to the markets.”  The yield on Ireland’s 10-year bond rose 28 basis points to
8.44 percent. The  extra yield  over German bunds rose to 561
basis points from 540 basis points yesterday. The spread, a
measure of the risk of investing in Ireland, peaked at 646 basis
points on Nov. 11.  “Once the bond spreads started to spike, whatever avenue
looked at, it was very difficult to see how we were going to
avoid a bailout,” NCB Stockbrokers Chief Economist  Brian Devine 
said. “We probably could have handled a budgetary fiscal crisis
on its own, but not a fiscal and banking crisis.”  Stark’s Threat  ECB Executive Board member  Juergen Stark  upped the stakes
today, saying in Frankfurt that the ECB will continue to scale
back stimulus “notwithstanding the most recent tensions in some
segments of the European sovereign debt market.”  Stark’s views are “unhelpful to say the least,” said
 Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc in London. “It’s a bold call to make when you have
three countries in your region effectively cut off from the
markets.”  A split on the ECB council has added to market tensions,
with President  Jean-Claude Trichet ’s program of buying bonds of
deficit-hit states lacking the support of  Axel Weber , head of
Germany’s central bank. Another ECB council member, Spain’s
 Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez , yesterday blamed Ireland for
equivocating over EU aid.  As Ireland’s fate took center stage, concern mounted that
Portugal would be next in the crossfire and that Spain, the euro
region’s fourth-largest economy, might come under speculative
pressure. Cyprus, which adopted the euro in 2008, had its long-
term sovereign credit rating lowered to A from A+ by Standard &
Poor’s Ratings Services today.  ‘Risk of Contagion’  “There is a risk of contagion,” Portuguese Finance
Minister  Fernando Teixeira  dos Santos said in an interview
yesterday. “But there’s a big difference between saying there
is a risk of contagion and saying help is imminent or that we
are going to ask for help.”  The latest leg in the debt crisis began Oct. 29 when EU
leaders agreed to consider German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
demand for the setup of a permanent crisis-resolution mechanism
that forces bondholders to share the cost of future bailouts.  That pledge triggered 13 straight days of losses in the
Irish bond market and dragged down Portuguese, Greek and Spanish
securities. To stem the damage, Merkel on Nov. 12 signed up to a
five-country declaration that exempts bonds now on the market
from a restructuring that could be imposed under a permanent
system to be created by 2013.  Papandreou’s Criticism  Merkel wants to penalize bondholders for betting against
fiscally unsound governments after the EU’s temporary rescue
fund runs out in 2013. In Paris yesterday, Greek Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  blamed the her proposal for creating a  “self-
fulfilling prophecy”  that hurt peripheral countries.  The Greek criticism drew a German rebuke today. “When I
heard the comments by the Greek prime minister I thought, with
all due respect, that Greece has enjoyed a lot of European and
German solidarity,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
said before the Brussels meeting. “But solidarity is not a one-
way street. That shouldn’t be forgotten in Greece.”  The German demands reflected a revolt by taxpayers in
richer EU countries against underwriting fiscally unsound
governments at a time of 10.1 percent euro-area unemployment.
Finland’s  Jyrki Katainen  said today that Ireland be forced to
put up collateral for any aid.  Austrian Finance Minister  Josef Proell  said he was
considering withholding the country’s share of the next part of
Greece’s 110-billion euro rescue, saying the Athens government
missed a revenue-raising target.  That disclosure triggered losses in Greek bonds, pushing
the extra yield over 10-year German bonds up by 12 basis points
to 898 basis points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling or  jhertling@bloomberg.net  