-- Ireland Said in Talks to Get Funds for Government, Banks
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2010-11-16T14:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/ireland-said-to-be-in-talks-to-receive-bailout-funds-for-government-banks.html
Ireland is in talks with European
Union and International Monetary Fund officials about a bailout
that would shore up the state’s finances as well as enable it to
inject capital into the country’s banks, said a European
official with direct knowledge of the talks.  The two-part funding package would mean Ireland wouldn’t
have to tap the bond market for an extended period as it tries
to cut the budget deficit, said the person, who spoke on
condition of anonymity. It would also give the government
capital to help banks if necessary. Ireland says it’s fully
funded into mid-2011.  “It’s a matter of hours, if not days” for Ireland to
activate the aid, said  Jacques Cailloux , chief European
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland in London.  The Irish turmoil marks a new stage in the sovereign debt
crisis that was triggered by Greece and threatened to break the
euro region apart in May, forcing the EU to set up a 750
billion-euro ($1 trillion) rescue fund. Austria stirred further
tensions today by announcing that it won’t contribute to the
next loan payment for Greece, saying the Athens government
missed a revenue-raising target.  “We are in a survival crisis,” EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said at the  European Policy Centre  in Brussels today.
“If we don’t survive with the euro zone, we will not survive
with the European Union.”  Bonds Fall  Irish  bonds  fell today, reversing a two-day surge, on
concern that European finance ministers might fail to strike a
deal at a meeting in Brussels later today.  Negotiations with the European Commission, European Central
Bank and IMF are under way and no decision has been reached, the
person said. Irish assessments of banking losses held up to
scrutiny in those discussions, the person said. Still, markets
haven’t been persuaded, the person said.  “We are discussing with both the ECB and the IMF and of
course the Irish,” European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters in Brussels. “The real
problems are in the banking sector,” not with the government,
“but these are connected,” he said.  Today’s drop in Irish bonds pushed the 10-year yield up 21
basis points to 8.364 percent. The  extra yield  over German bunds
rose to 559 basis points from 540 basis points yesterday. The
spread, a measure of the risk of investing in Ireland, peaked at
646 basis points on Nov. 11.  ‘Very Difficult’  “Once the bond spreads started to spike, whatever avenue
looked at, it was very difficult to see how we were going to
avoid a bailout,” NCB Stockbrokers Chief Economist  Brian Devine 
said. “We probably could have handled a budgetary fiscal crisis
on its own, but not a fiscal and banking crisis.”  An Irish central bank spokesman declined to comment. An
Irish Finance Ministry spokesman also declined to comment
directly today and referred to a statement issued on Nov. 14.  Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  signaled late yesterday that
Ireland was bowing to EU pressure to tap the aid facility,
telling state broadcaster RTE that “we have to discuss these
matters with partners as to how best to underpin financial and
banking stability within the euro area.”  The risk is that Ireland’s crisis spreads to Portugal and,
eventually, to Spain, the euro region’s fourth-largest economy.
Portuguese Finance Minister  Fernando Teixeira  dos Santos
yesterday indicated the risk to his country’s economic
independence if the crisis mounts.  “There is a risk of contagion,” he said in an interview
when asked whether Portugal will seek EU aid. “But there’s a
big difference between saying there is a risk of contagion and
saying help is imminent or that we are going to ask for help.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net 
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  