-- Ireland Crisis Punishes Borrowers as Dollar Sales Tumble: Credit Markets
-- B y   B r y a n   K e o g h
-- 2010-11-17T18:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/ireland-crisis-punishes-borrowers-as-dollar-sales-tumble-credit-markets.html
European companies’ sales of U.S.
dollar bonds fell to the lowest in almost a decade on concern
the region’s budget deficit crisis will spiral out of control as
Ireland comes closer to following Greece in getting a bailout.  Borrowers in Europe have raised $1.4 billion this month
selling debt in the U.S., only 2.7 percent of all investment-
grade issuance, the smallest share since February 2001 and down
from $9.3 billion, or 32 percent, in the same period of October,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Until this month, U.S.
bond sales by companies in Europe made up an average of 29
percent of issuance in 2010, the data show.  Six months after Greece sought help to pay its bills,
credit markets in Europe are again being roiled by a fiscal
crisis, limiting the ability of companies to raise money in the
bond market. The region’s debt woes are driving up relative
borrowing costs at a time when they’re narrowing elsewhere.
European Union finance ministers started work on possible aid
for Ireland’s debt-laden banks, stopping short of an immediate
bailout package.  “The world is waking up to the fact that the European
sovereign crisis is just getting started,” said  Scott Minerd ,
chief investment officer at New York-based Guggenheim Partners
LLC, who has been avoiding bonds of Italian and Irish lenders
and cutting his exposure to Spanish banks. “The only way out is
a weaker euro,” said Minerd, who helps oversee $76 billion.  Italian Yields  Yields on Italian corporate debt sold in dollars have
climbed 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 229 basis
points more than benchmarks since Oct. 31, while spreads on
Portuguese bonds widened 13 basis points to 322, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Spanish company yield premiums in the U.S. jumped 13 basis
points to 205, and U.K. spreads expanded 5 to 197. Spreads for
U.S. companies tightened 1 basis point to 170.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar-maturity
government debt rose 1 basis point to 167 basis points, up from
164 on Oct. 31, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Broad Market Corporate Index. Yields averaged 3.639
percent, from 3.645 percent on Nov. 15.  The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. fell, with the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index, which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate
debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreasing 2.3 basis
point to a mid-price of 92.1 basis points as of 1:07 p.m. in New
York, according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Hilton Offering  The index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates, ended yesterday at 94.5,
the highest since Oct. 22.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  A bond offering linked to the buyout of  Hilton Worldwide
Inc.  was slashed to $1.56 billion, according to people familiar
with the transaction who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t public. Bank of America Corp. and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. were marketing $2.66 billion of the unrated securities,
backed by interest in all of the assets of the hotel chain,
people familiar with the transaction said Oct. 25.  Bank of America spokeswoman Kerrie McHugh and Michael
DuVally of Goldman Sachs declined to comment.  European finance ministers voiced confidence that Ireland
will ride out its fiscal crisis, ducking investors’ pleas for a
bailout package and risking a renewed convulsion on bond
markets.  Finance chiefs from the 16-country euro region lauded
Ireland’s budget cuts, echoing the rhetorical support offered in
the early stages of Greece’s debt trauma before aid became
necessary.  ‘Significant Efforts’  “We welcomed Ireland’s significant efforts to meet the
challenges it faces,” Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  told reporters after chairing the ministers’ meeting in
Brussels late yesterday.  European turmoil flared up two weeks ago after Germany
proposed forcing bondholders to share the pain of any future
rescue, driving up yields across the region. Irish Central Bank
Governor  Patrick Honohan  said on Nov. 10 that loan losses at the
country’s lenders, including foreign-owned banks, total at least
85 billion euros ($115 billion).  European Central Bank officials are urging Ireland, which
says it’s fully funded into mid-2011, to set aside national
pride and tap the 750 billion-euro fund crafted six months ago
for Europe’s deficit-ridden peripheral nations.  The crisis in May brought issuance close to a halt, with
European companies selling $782 million in the U.S., or 3
percent of all investment-grade offerings that month.  Spreads Spike  “When spreads spike up, issuance gets postponed,” said
 Alberto Gallo , a credit strategist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
in New York. “Companies will pull back when the peripheral
outlook is negative and it’s going to affect their funding
costs.”  Guggenheim is “generally fine” with the region’s
corporate debt market, while drawing the line at most peripheral
lenders and European government bonds, said Minerd.  European lenders are avoiding the dollar-denominated debt
market in part because the sovereign crisis will weaken the euro
and make U.S. liabilities more expensive, he said. The euro has
surged as much as 19 percent against the dollar since June 7.  The pullback comes at a time when  Wind Telecomunicazioni
SpA , the Rome-based mobile-phone company whose parent is merging
with Russia’s VimpelCom Ltd., plans to sell $1 billion of debt
in the U.S. as part of a 3.2 billion-euro offering to refinance
existing debt, according to a person familiar with the deal.  Ferrexpo Postpones  Ferrexpo Plc postponed its sale of five-year dollar-
denominated bonds because of market conditions, Ingrid McMahon,
a spokeswoman for the Baar, Switzerland-based iron-ore producer,
said Nov. 10.  BNP Paribas SA , the world’s biggest bank by assets, fellow
Paris-based lender  Societe Generale SA  and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc were among European issuers to sell bonds of
at least $100 million in the U.S. this month, Bloomberg data
show. BNP Paribas raised $650 million on Nov. 5 in a sale of
3.25 percent notes due in 2015, while Societe Generale and
Edinburgh-based RBS sold $100 million of floating-rate debt.  Sales in euros have also dropped this month, with issuance
of 17 billion euros, compared with 24.4 billion during the same
period of October, according to Bloomberg data.  “There is concern over what is going on Europe,
particularly the banks’ exposure to economic and sovereign
issues in those weaker nations,” said  Mirko Mikelic , senior
portfolio manager at Fifth Third Asset Management, who oversees
$13 billion of fixed-income assets in Grand Rapids, Michigan.
“Issuance has slowed as it has become more expensive, investors
have been much more selective and there are other U.S. dollar
opportunities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bryan Keogh  in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  