-- IRS Withdraws Tax Probe of UBS Over Secret Accounts
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r
-- 2010-11-16T15:45:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/irs-withdraws-probe-of-ubs-over-secret-accounts-after-getting-7-500-names.html
The U.S.  Internal Revenue Service 
dropped its demand for the identities of Americans who hold
secret offshore bank accounts at  UBS AG , after concluding it
will learn the names of more than 7,500 names of the bank’s
customers.  IRS Commissioner  Douglas Shulman  said the agency was
withdrawing its “John Doe” summons against the Swiss bank.
Shulman said the IRS investigation has prompted voluntary
disclosures by 18,000 Americans, including thousands with
accounts at other banks.  About 3,000 Americans have come forward in the year since
the IRS ended an official program to grant some leniency for
voluntary disclosures, Shulman said in a statement.  “We are finding that many of these voluntary disclosure
cases involve significant amounts of previously unpaid tax,”
Shulman said. He said the agency has collected on average
$200,000 in taxes, penalties and interest per case.  The IRS began its investigation into UBS in June 2008 after
a former banker,  Bradley Birkenfeld , pleaded guilty to
conspiracy and said the bank helped wealthy U.S. citizens
conceal $20 billion in assets and evade income tax laws. The IRS
today concluded UBS has met the terms of an agreement in August
2009 to reveal customers’ identities.  Shulman said the IRS already has received the identities of
4,000 UBS customers and expects the final count to exceed 7,500.  Transfer Completed  In Switzerland today, the government  said  it completed the
transfer of data on UBS client accounts to the IRS this month
and said the agreement had been “substantially implemented.”  “When people cheat on their taxes, the vast majority of
honest U.S. taxpayers suffer the consequences and have to make
up the difference,” Shulman said. “We will tirelessly pursue
anyone who tries to use international borders to their advantage
and cheat honest taxpayers.”  The UBS case has been a centerpiece in a U.S. crackdown on
offshore tax evasion. Since the deferred-prosecution agreement,
the Justice Department has filed criminal charges against 17 UBS
clients in the U.S., two UBS bankers and three others accused of
aiding tax evasion. At least 150 other people are under criminal
investigation, the Justice Department has said.  UBS, Switzerland’s biggest bank, avoided U.S. prosecution
in February 2009 by paying $780 million, admitting it helped
wealthy Americans evade U.S. taxes from 2000 to 2007, and
handing over account data on more than 250 U.S. clients.  The next day, the U.S. sued UBS in Miami, seeking data on
52,000 accounts. The IRS uses the John Doe summons when it is
investigating possible tax fraud by people whose identities are
unknown.  In October, the U.S. Justice Department decided to withdraw
a criminal case against UBS, saying the bank complied with the
agreement. In settling the criminal probe, UBS paid $380 million
to disgorge profits from its cross-border business from 2001 to
2008, and $400 million in interest, penalties and restitution
for unpaid taxes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 