-- Israeli Rate May Increase on Inflation, Leader Says; Shekel, Bonds Gain
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2010-11-16T15:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/israeli-rate-may-increase-on-inflation-leader-says-shekel-bonds-gain.html
Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  may raise the benchmark lending rate next week after
inflation accelerated for a second month, according to Leader
Capital Markets Ltd. Ten-year bonds and the shekel gained.  The October inflation rate increased to 2.5 percent from
2.4 percent in September as food and housing prices climbed, the
Central Bureau of Statistics said yesterday. Inflation is
expected to accelerate to about 2.8 percent in the next 12
months, the central bank said today, citing its latest poll of
forecasters.  “The October index seemingly rose within the consensus,
though the index composite strengthens the estimation that basic
prices are rising,” said  Rafael Gozlan , chief economist at
Leader in Tel Aviv.  Gozlan expects the Bank of Israel to increase its main
lending rate by a quarter-percentage point to 2.25 percent at
the next rate-setting meeting on Nov. 22. He’s one of five
economists surveyed by Bloomberg at the end of October and in
the first half of November who forecast an increase. Ten other
economists predict Fischer will leave the rate unchanged at 2
percent for a second month.  Fischer, who increased the benchmark interest rate by a
quarter-point to 2 percent in September citing the surge in
housing prices, said yesterday the bank will have to react to
inflation “at some point but it is not a concern that we have
deal with immediately.”  The yield on the 5 percent benchmark Mimshal Shiklit bond
due January 2020 slipped 1 basis point to 4.52 percent at the
4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv.  The shekel strengthened 0.4 percent to 3.6635 per dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Wainer  in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  