-- U.S. Said New Israel West Bank Freeze May Be Last, Netanyahu Adviser Says
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2010-11-20T19:43:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/israeli-says-palestinians-are-blocking-u-s-efforts-to-resume-peace-talks.html
The U.S. has raised the possibility
that the new Israeli West Bank construction freeze it proposed
to restart Mideast peace talks might be the last one demanded of
Israel, a top Israeli official said today.  “Americans made remarks that interested Israel, among
them, that in return for a short, isolated moratorium, the U.S.
would guarantee Israel would not be asked to make any further
freezes,” National Security Council Chairman  Uzi Arad  said in
an interview with Channel Two.  The remarks were made in a Nov. 11 meeting between Israeli
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  in New York, he said.  Arad’s comments were the first time a Netanyahu adviser
spoke on the record about the new U.S. proposal to get Israeli-
Palestinian negotiations started again. Arad also confirmed that
the sides were discussing the supply of a fleet of advanced
warplanes to the Israeli air force.  The U.S. has been trying to coax the sides back to talks
since they stalled when a 10-month partial Israeli freeze on
settlement building expired on Sept. 26. Acceptance of the U.S.
plan by Israeli and Palestinian officials would keep alive at
least temporarily President  Barack Obama ’s effort to prod the
two sides toward a comprehensive peace agreement.  Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas , who has said
that he will not return to negotiations unless all Israeli
settlement construction is halted, has yet to receive a formal
U.S. plan to comment on, his spokesman  Nabil Abu Rudeina  said on
Nov. 17.  Seeking Permanent Agreement  “It is not certain that we have a partner to reach a
permanent agreement with,” Arad said in the  Channel Two 
interview, according to the television’s website. “If there
won’t be a permanent agreement, we can’t rule out the
possibility of something less than that.”  Netanyahu and Abbas agreed in September to try to reach an
agreement on the framework for a comprehensive peace accord
within a year. All the issues at the heart of the conflict would
be on the table, including the borders of a future Palestinian
state, security arrangements for Israel, the status of Jerusalem
and the right of Palestinian refugees to return to their old
homes, including in Israel.  The Israeli leader, who brought before his cabinet the main
points of the Clinton meeting on Nov. 14, has said he will bring
the proposal to a vote once he has received a written letter of
guarantees from the Americans. Arad said that a commitment on no
further settlement-freeze demands was being discussed as one of
those guarantees.  Direct Negotiations  “We have discussions with the Israelis to encourage them
to return to direct negotiations,” State Department spokesman
 Philip J. Crowley  said yesterday, according to an e-mailed
transcript from his office. “If as part of this process, we
need to write certain things down, we will.”  The U.S. proposal includes a pledge to supply Israel with
20 advanced warplanes and to veto any attempt in the United
Nations to impose a peace agreement, according to diplomats
familiar with the plan. The 90-day freeze also wouldn’t apply to
east Jerusalem, which Israel captured in the 1967 war and the
Palestinians want as the capital of a future state.  About 500,000 Jews have moved to the West Bank and east
Jerusalem since Israel took over the areas in the 1967 conflict.
The UN says the settlements are illegal, and the International
Committee of the Red Cross says they breach the Fourth Geneva
Convention governing actions on occupied territory. Obama has
said the settlements aren’t legitimate.  Israel says settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to anyone
before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and therefore
isn’t occupied.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  