-- Israeli Economic Growth Slows to 3.8% in Third Quarter as Exports Fall
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2010-11-16T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/israeli-economic-growth-slows-to-3-8-in-third-quarter-as-exports-fall.html
Israeli economic growth slowed to an
annualized 3.8 percent in the third quarter as a fall in exports
was partially offset by increases in home construction and
investment in factories and machinery.  The rate of growth declined from 4.5 percent in the second
quarter, the Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of Statistics  said
today on its website.  Israel’s economy will have to rely more heavily on local
growth if foreign demand remains weak, Bank of Israel Governor
 Stanley Fischer  said yesterday. The U.S. and Europe, Israel’s
main export markets, have been slow to recover from the global
recession. About half of Israel’s gross domestic product is
export-based.  “The picture as a whole looks surprisingly good,”  Rafael Gozlan , chief economist at Leader Capital Markets Ltd. in Tel
Aviv, said in a telephone interview. “Domestic activity is
making up for the drop in exports.”  The economy will probably expand 4 percent this year, the
Central Bureau of Statistics said on Oct. 17. Israel bounced
back from the global recession faster than many developed
economies.  Residential building rose an annualized 13.2 percent in the
quarter, after gaining 18.1 percent in April through June, the
bureau said today. Fixed investment by industries climbed 10.9
percent, after increasing 13.1 percent in the previous quarter.
Exports fell an annualized 9.6 percent, compared with growth of
13.9 percent in the previous quarter.  “Our exporters have to be searching for markets in the
growing part of the world which is obviously Asia, obviously the
two giant economies in Asia, also Latin American and also to
some extent in Africa,” Fischer said yesterday.  Key Rate  Fischer left the  benchmark interest rate  unchanged at 2
percent at the end of October, after raising it six times since
Aug. 2009. The bank cited the fall in exports and
“uncertainty” in global demand.  Fischer has been buying foreign currency since March 2008
and has more than doubled reserves since then in an attempt to
limit gains in the shekel and help exporters. Israel’s foreign
exchange reserves rose to $69.6 billion in October, the bank
said on Nov. 7.  The benchmark  TA-25  stock index has gained more than 15
percent in the past 12 months, led by Avner Oil Exploration LP,
one of the partners in gas fields off Israel’s coast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 