-- Japanese Stock Futures, Australian Shares Fall on China, Ireland Concern
-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 2010-11-16T23:29:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/japanese-stock-futures-australian-shares-slump-on-china-ireland-concern.html
Japanese  stock   futures  and
Australian shares fell after commodity prices declined on
concern that China will take measures to slow its economic
growth and that Ireland’s debt crisis is worsening.  American depositary receipts of Mitsubishi Corp., Japan’s
largest commodities trader, tumbled 1.9 percent from the closing
share price in Tokyo. Those of Komatsu Ltd., a maker of
construction equipment which gets about 20 percent of its
revenue in China, lost 1.2 percent. BHP Billiton Ltd., the
world’s largest mining company, dropped 2 percent in Sydney.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  expiring in
December closed at 9,690 in Chicago yesterday, compared with
9,775 in Singapore. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,700 in
Osaka, Japan, at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index retreated 0.8 percent today and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
decreased 0.7 percent in Wellington.  “Pressure to sell stocks, mainly commodity-related shares,
will increase,” said  Hiroichi Nishi , an equities manager in
Tokyo at Nikko Cordial Securities Inc. “There are worries
demand will decrease on China’s tightening policies.”  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  gained 0.2
percent today. The index decreased 1.6 percent yesterday in New
York, the most since Aug. 19.  China will introduce measures to control rising food prices,
the China Securities Journal reported before Asian markets
closed yesterday, citing an unidentified person.  Commodities Decline  Crude oil for December delivery dropped 3 percent yesterday
in New York to $82.34 a barrel, the lowest settlement price
since Oct. 29. Copper futures for March delivery tumbled 4.9
percent yesterday, the biggest drop since June 29. The London
Metal Exchange Index of prices for six industrial metals
including copper and aluminum plunged 6.3 percent yesterday.  Ireland is in talks with European and International
Monetary Fund officials about a bailout that would enable the
country to inject capital into the country’s banks, said a
European official with direct knowledge of the talks. The two-
part funding package would mean Ireland wouldn’t have to tap the
bond market for an extended period as it tries to cut the budget
deficit, said the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  increased 8.5 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with gains of 5.7 percent by the S&P
500 and 4.8 percent by the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index . Stocks in the
Asian benchmark are valued at 14.4 times estimated  earnings ,
compared with 13.9 times for the S&P 500 and 12 times for the
Stoxx 600.  The yen depreciated to 83.59 against the dollar about 3 a.m.
in Tokyo today, the weakest level since Oct. 5. That boosts the
value of overseas income at Japanese companies when converted
into their home currency.  “There are hopes that companies will raise their profit
forecasts, since the yen is weaker than the level major
exporters expect for the second-half period,” said Nikko
Cordial’s Nishi. Japan’s fiscal year runs from April to March.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Akiko Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;
 Satoshi Kawano  in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 