-- Japan Government Said to Be Weighing Sale of NTT Shares Next Fiscal Year
-- B y   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i ,   Y o s h i n o r i   E k i   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2010-11-16T08:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/japan-said-to-consider-sale-of-4-billion-in-ntt-shares-next-fiscal-year.html
Japan, owner of a $24 billion stake
in  Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp. , is considering selling
shares of the former phone monopoly next fiscal year, two
government officials familiar with the matter said.  A decision will probably be made by December when the
government draws up its 2011 budget for parliamentary approval,
the people said, asking not to be identified because the
deliberations aren’t public.  Yoshihiko Noda , Japan’s finance
minister, declined to comment when approached at the Diet.  A sale would give Japan, the world’s most indebted
developed nation, funds to pay for debt or public projects as
the yen’s climb to a 15-year high undermines corporate profits.
The government could sell almost 90 million shares, currently
valued at about 330 billion yen ($4 billion), by 2012 while
retaining a required 33 percent stake.  "It doesn’t look like the government will sell shares this
year so they’ll probably do it next fiscal year," said  Shinji Moriyuki , an analyst at Nikko Cordial Securities Inc. in Tokyo.
“Judging from the past experience, NTT is likely to buy back
whatever shares the government sells.”  NTT President  Satoshi Miura  said on Nov. 9 the company
would be willing to buy back shares from the government. No
talks were under way and Miura wasn’t aware of any government
plans, he said at the time. Temmin Yoshiara, a Tokyo-based
spokesman at NTT, declined to comment on government plans.  Minimum Shareholding  The Finance Ministry has held on to 530.6 million shares of
Tokyo-based  NTT  for the past five years because of a law
requiring the government to own at least one-third of the
nation’s largest fixed-line phone carrier.  NTT said in May it will cancel 250.9 million treasury
shares by March 2012. That gave the government room to sell off
holdings.  NTT  has added 1.3 percent in Tokyo trading since the May 14
announcement, while the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average has
dropped 6.4 percent. Since their peak at their 1987 listing, the
shares have tumbled about 90 percent.  “The government really needs to take measures to bolster
NTT’s stock price,” said Tetsuro Tsusaka, a Tokyo-based analyst
at Barclays Plc. “NTT is overregulated and the rules are due
for a revision.”  NTT yesterday canceled 125.5 million treasury shares,
raising the Finance Ministry’s  stake  to 36.6 percent from 33.7
percent. That means the government could sell about 48 million
shares now and a similar amount by the time the phone carrier
completes its share cancellation in 2012.  Japanese government has disposed of NTT shares since 1986,
when it sold 1.95 million shares for 2.33 trillion yen,
according to data compiled by NTT. The Finance Ministry, which
has the right to veto the appointment of board members and
advisers at the carrier, last sold NTT shares in 2005, according
to NTT’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoko Shimodoi in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshinori Eki in Tokyo at 
 yeki@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  