-- K1 Hedge Fund Founder Kiener Charged With Defrauding Barclays, BNP Paribas
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2010-11-16T17:38:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/k1-hedge-fund-founder-kiener-charged-in-germany-over-barclays-bnp-losses.html
K1 Group hedge fund founder  Helmut Kiener  was charged in Germany over his role in a fraud that
saddled private investors and banks, including  Barclays Plc  and
 BNP Paribas SA , with 345 million euros ($469 million) in losses.  Kiener was charged with tax evasion, 35 counts of
aggravated fraud and 86 counts of forgery, Dietrich Geuder, the
spokesman for the Wuerzburg Prosecutors’ Office, said in a
statement. Nearly 5,000 private investors in the K1 Global Ltd.
and K1 Invest Ltd. funds lost money, according to Geuder.  “The investors were allegedly promised substantial profits
even though both funds had massive losses,” Geuder said in the
statement. “Pretend profits could only be paid out by using
newly invested money.”  Kiener, 51, is the central figure in an international
criminal probe that led to his arrest in October 2009. Dieter
Frerichs, the former managing director of the two K1 funds in
the British Virgin Islands, shot himself in July to avoid being
arrested by police on the Spanish island of Mallorca.  Kiener has denied the allegations. Courts have denied
Kiener’s requests for bail, saying he is a flight risk. His
lawyer, Lutz Libbertz, wasn’t immediately available to comment.  Prosecutors conducted new raids last week and arrested
three additional suspects, Geuder said.  Treukapital Treuhandverwaltung  A second suspect charged today, identified only as Claus
Z., was a managing director of K1 funds’ Swiss administrator
Treukapital Treuhandverwaltung AG, which did accounting for the
funds. He is charged with aiding Kiener in two cases of serious
fraud that led to 156 million euros in damages.  The people arrested last week weren’t identified by name.
Two of them, 35 and 80 years old, are managing directors of
Treukapital. The third is the 65-year old auditor of K1 Global
and K1 Invest, prosecutors said in the statement.  While the private investors fell victim to a Ponzi scheme,
BNP and Barclays were tricked into making their investments with
false statements, according to the indictment. Private investors
had about 122 million euros in losses and the two banks suffered
about 223 million euros in losses, Geuder said.  BNP spokesman Dirk-Michael Mitter declined to comment.
Barclays spokesman  Marc Hazelton  declined to comment.  A year between the arrest and charges being filed isn’t
surprising given the complexity of the case and the amount at
stake,  Kai Hart-Hoenig , a criminal lawyer in Wiesbaden, Germany,
who isn’t involved in the case, said in an interview last week.  Allocation System  Kiener, who helped manage funds of hedge funds, developed
what K1’s website described as a “semi-automatical allocation
system” using statistics to help pick hedge-fund investments.
He called his technique the “K1 Fund Allocation System,” a
term he trademarked in Germany.  Kiener started K1 in 1995 while still working as an
advertising salesman. The firm claimed returns of 825 percent
from 1996 through June 2008, according to its website, which was
taken down after the scandal broke last year.  Kiener may have channeled money from Barclays to funds he
controlled and contrary to investment agreements, according to
his arrest warrant issued last year. Kiener diverted money
through an international network of firms that he controlled,
allowing him to send funds into Florida real estate while
feeding funds back into his firm.  BNP’s exposure stems from an investment starting in April
2007, according to the warrant. Kiener may have also deceived
BNP when receiving management fees, the warrant said.  BNP and JPMorgan Chase & Co. sued K1 and Kiener in New York
State Supreme Court last year claiming losses in a “fraudulent
circular investment scheme” conducted by K1 and its affiliates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 