-- Kenya in Talks With Reliance, Tatas for Investments
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2010-11-16T11:40:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/kenya-in-talks-with-reliance-tatas-for-investment-president-odinga-says.html
Kenya’s government is in talks with
 Reliance Industries Ltd. , India’s biggest company by market
value, and the Tata Group for possible investments in the
African country, Prime Minister Raila Odinga said.  “Reliance and Tata groups are interested,” Odinga told
Bloomberg-UTV in an interview at the World Economic Forum’s
India economic summit in New Delhi today. “We see a new group
of Indian multinationals taking interest not only in Kenya, but
the rest of Africa.”  Billionaire  Mukesh Ambani ’s Reliance has $6.5 billion in
cash to use in buying energy assets overseas as natural gas
output from its biggest deposit in India stagnates. Tata Group
Chairman  Ratan Tata  has made 66 acquisitions in two decades. The
group’s revenue was more than $67 billion in the year ended
March, according to its  website .  Reliance is looking at investing in oil exploration in
Kenya, Odinga said.  Manoj Warrier , a spokesman for Reliance, declined to
comment.  Raman Dhawan , managing director of Tata Africa Holdings,
couldn’t immediately be reached at his office in Johannesburg.  Reliance bought three shale-gas assets in the U.S. this
year. The Mumbai-based explorer and oil refiner paid $943
million for the three assets and agreed to spend $2.5 billion in
future drilling costs on behalf of its partners.  Reliance had 293.5 billion rupees ($6.5 billion) in cash
and equivalent and outstanding  debt  was 682 billion rupees as of
Sept. 30, according to an Oct. 30 statement.  Oil Blocks  Cnooc Ltd. , China’s biggest offshore energy explorer, has
told the Kenyan government it plans to drop licenses to search
for oil and gas in two Kenyan blocks by December, Mines and
Energy Ministry Permanent Secretary  Patrick Nyoike  said Oct. 21.
Cnooc is interested in working with  Tullow Oil Plc  and  Africa
Oil Corp.  to explore five other blocks, Nyoike said then.  Kenya has four sedimentary basins that have been divided
into 38 exploration blocks, Nyoike said in July. About 24 of the
blocks are being explored, he said.  Reliance, owner of the world’s biggest refining complex,
bought fuel retailer Gulf Africa Petroleum Corp. to enter the
African market in September 2007. Gulf Africa Petroleum retails
fuel in Tanzania, Uganda and Kenya. It owns storage tanks and
depots in east and central Africa, Reliance said at the time.  The Tata Group’s businesses in  Africa  include automobiles,
phone services and a hotel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Unni Krishnan  in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net . 