-- King Says U.K.’s Exposure to Ireland Is ‘By No Means Trivial’
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-11-16T18:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/king-says-u-k-banks-exposure-to-irish-economy-is-by-no-means-trivial-.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
said the exposure of Britain’s banking system to Ireland’s
economy is “by no means trivial” and growth in the euro area
is “a very important ingredient” to U.K. economic prospects.  While “the direct holdings of Irish sovereign debt are not
especially large,” ownership “of securities issued by Irish
banks are bigger and of course there are wider exposures to
assets comprising loans to the Irish economy more generally,”
King told lawmakers in London today. “So I think the overall
exposure to the Irish economy is by no means trivial.”  Irish bond yields have soared on concern that the
government will need assistance bailing out its banks, marking a
new stage in the sovereign debt crisis triggered by Greece in
May and threatening to break the euro area apart. King said last
week that the biggest risk facing the British economy was from
international factors.  “The U.K. economy is going through a very difficult
rebalancing which will take possibly five years or more,” King
said. “A very important ingredient of that from our point of
view is a healthy economic expansion in the euro area,” which
“will offset the downward drag on demand from fiscal
consolidation” in Britain, the governor said.  Ireland is in talks with European Union and International
Monetary Fund officials about a bailout that would shore up the
state’s finances as well as enable it to inject capital into the
country’s banks, a European official with direct knowledge of
the talks said today.  “There are some very delicate discussions going on in
Europe as we speak,” King said. “It’s something which is
relevant to concern about financial stability in the U.K., but
it’s focused more generally on the Irish economy, then the Irish
banking system and only to a relatively small extent direct
exposures to Irish sovereign debt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  