-- King Says BOE Can Add Stimulus on `Significant' Undershoot Risk
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-11-17T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/king-sees-significant-risk-of-inflation-undershoot-easing-still-possible.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
said officials can expand economic stimulus if necessary as the
risk of inflation slowing below the bank’s 2 percent goal in two
years remains “significant.”  “We could do further quantitative easing if that turned
out to be necessary,” King told lawmakers yesterday in London.
“We have a difficult balancing act,” and if the bank’s
judgment is wrong, then “we will find ourselves in the position
two years from now where we will have seriously undershot the
inflation target.”  Bank of England policy makers split three ways in October
on whether to raise stimulus to aid the recovery or increase the
interest rate to curb consumer prices, and minutes of their Nov.
4 decision will be released today.  Inflation  unexpectedly
accelerated in October, forcing King to write to the Treasury
explaining how he will bring it back to the goal.  “There are significant risks to inflation undershooting”
the goal, he told the House of Lords Economic Affairs Committee.
“Given what is happening to broad money growth, given what is
happening in the labor market, given what is happening to the
amount of spare capacity in the economy, all of those things
make us feel that in the medium term inflation will come down.”  Unemployment data will probably show jobless claims
increased for a third month in October, rising by 6,000,
according to the median forecast of 23 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. The Office for National Statistics will release
that data at 9:30 a.m. in London, at the same time as the Bank
of England releases the minutes.  Committee Split  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee this month kept
its bond-purchase plan at 200 billion pounds ($320 billion) and
its  interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent. In October,
 Andrew Sentance  called for higher interest rates to combat
inflation, while  Adam Posen  pushed for more stimulus to sustain
the recovery.  “There are some differences on the committee,” King said.
“I don’t think, given the scale of the shocks that we’re
confronting, it’s particularly surprising or very large. When
the minutes come out tomorrow you’ll see the distribution of
views on the committee.”  Inflation accelerated because of increases in costs of
gasoline and diesel, overdraft charges and mortgage arrangement
fees, and computer games, the Office for National Statistics
said yesterday. The result of 3.2 percent exceeded the 3.1
percent median forecast of 28 economists in a  Bloomberg News
survey . On the month, prices increased by 0.3 percent.  Inflation Limit  The inflation rate has exceeded the government’s 3 percent
limit this year in every month apart from February. The central
bank predicts that increases in commodity costs and higher sales
tax will keep the rate above 2 percent next year, masking
underlying subdued price pressures from the aftermath of the 
recession .  “Let me make it absolutely clear that we are focused
entirely on the outlook for inflation,” King told lawmakers.
“On the upside, the major risk is on inflation expectations,”
though “given the amount of spare capacity and the other medium
term indicators I have described, there is also a risk inflation
could fall below the target and that could be just as damaging.”  The governor must write to the chancellor of the exchequer
every three months when inflation deviates more than a point
from the central target in either direction. King said in his
letter to finance minister  George Osborne  released after the
data yesterday that the rate “is likely to remain elevated
throughout 2011” and “might rise further” in coming months.  Still, the bank’s “central view remains that spare
capacity within companies and in the labor market will continue
to put downward pressure on inflation,” he said in the letter.
“The depth of the recession means that a margin of spare
capacity is likely to persist for some while.”  Osborne, replying to King, agreed that “the prospects for
inflation remain highly uncertain, with substantial risks in
both directions.”  “I re-emphasize here that the MPC’s symmetric inflation
target ensures vigilance on both upside and downside risks,”
Osborne said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  