-- King Says U.K. Inflation May Stay Elevated Throughout 2011 After 3% Breach
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-11-16T10:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/king-says-u-k-inflation-may-stay-elevated-throughout-2011-after-3-breach.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
said inflation will remain “elevated” throughout next year,
and Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne replied to him
that officials must guard against risks in both directions.  “Inflation is likely to remain elevated throughout 2011,”
King said in a letter to Osborne released by the central bank
today in London. “The committee is ready to adjust policy -- in
either direction -- in order to ensure that the risks to the
outlook for inflation in the medium term remain evenly balanced
around the 2 percent target.”  Consumer prices increased 3.2 percent in October from a
year earlier, the Office for National Statistics said today in
London. That forced King to write his fourth letter of 2010 to
Osborne explaining why inflation has breached the 3 percent
upper limit and how the central bank will respond.  “As you highlight, the prospects for inflation remain
highly uncertain, with substantial risks in both directions”
and he noted “the range of views” among policy makers is
“wider than usual,” Osborne said. “I re-emphasize here that
the MPC’s symmetric inflation target ensures vigilance on both
upside and downside risks.”  Inflation accelerated because of increases in costs of
gasoline and diesel, overdraft charges and mortgage arrangement
fees, and computer games, the statistics office said. On the
month, prices rose 0.3 percent, exceeding the median forecast of
0.2 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 24 economists.  Inflation has exceeded 3 percent this year in every month
apart from February. The central bank predicts that increases in
commodity costs and higher sales tax will keep the rate above
the 2 percent goal next year, masking underlying subdued price
pressures from the aftermath of the  recession .  The governor must write to the chancellor every three
months when the inflation rate deviates more than a point from
the central target in either direction. King said in his letter
in August that the bank was “ready either to expand or to
reduce” stimulus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  