-- South Korea's Won Gains, Stocks Decline as Rates Raised to Curb Inflation
-- B y   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-11-16T08:18:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/korean-won-strengthens-for-first-time-in-three-days-after-rate-increase.html
South Korea’s won rose for the first
time in three days and stocks fell as the central bank raised
the benchmark interest rate for a second time this year after
inflation quickened to a 20-month high.  The Bank of Korea increased the seven-day  repurchase rate 
by 0.25 percentage point to 2.5 percent. The currency earlier
declined amid concern the government will impose measures to
temper inflows of capital that threaten to drive up prices.
Government bonds rose for a seventh day on expectations the
central bank will delay the next rate increase to 2011.  “The market is still nervous,” said  Gerrard Katz , head of
foreign-exchange trading at Standard Chartered Plc in Hong Kong.
“It awaits any measures Korea would take to control the inflow
of hot money.”  The currency appreciated 0.2 percent to close at 1,129.47
per dollar in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
has climbed 7.2 percent since the end of June, the third
strongest performance among Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies
excluding the yen.  The  Kospi  share index fell 0.8 percent to a two-week low of
1899.13. Financial companies were among the biggest decliners,
with  KB Financial Group Inc. , owner of the nation’s largest bank,
falling 1.7 percent.  Woori Finance Holdings Co.  slumped 3.6
percent.  Inflation Risk  Bank of Korea Governor  Kim Choong Soo  dropped a reference
to keeping borrowing costs “accommodative” after inflation
surged past the central bank’s ceiling. Inflation will be 3
percent this year, higher than a July forecast of 2.8 percent,
and accelerate to 3.4 percent in 2011 due to rising demand in
the economy, Kim said last week. Six of 13 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg had predicted the interest-rate increase, while the
rest expected no change.  South Korea will announce capital control measures by the
end of this year, Yonhap News reported today, citing Vice
Minister  Yim Jong Yong . The currency had fallen 2.1 percent over
previous two trading days on concern the government will step up
efforts to curb capital inflows, which this month drove the won
to its strongest level since April.  Kim Song Sik , a lawmaker from South Korea’s Grand National
Party, submitted a bill to parliament last week to revive a 14
percent tax on foreigners’ bond holdings and financial
regulators are examining banks to ensure they meet currency
derivative caps announced in June.  Government Bonds  South Korea’s benchmark interest rate isn’t yet at a
neutral level and the economy isn’t ready for “normal” rates
yet, Kim said after the interest-rate decision.  “It was a positive day for bonds because the central
bank’s signal of additional rate increases was weak,” said
 Peter Park , a fixed-income analyst at Woori Investment &
Securities Co in Seoul. “The foreigner bond tax is already
priced in too. We expect the next rate hike to be in the first
quarter of next year.”  The yield on the 3.75 percent note due June 2013 fell 16
basis points to 3.32 percent, the most in a month, according to
Korea Stock Exchange.  -- With assistance from  Kyunghee Park  in Seoul. Editors:  Simon Harvey ,  Brett Miller   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net 
 Kyunghee Park  at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  