-- Nadal Draws Djokovic, Roddick at ATP Finals While Federer Will Face Murray
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-11-16T13:33:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/nadal-draws-djokovic-roddick-while-federer-will-face-murray-in-finals.html
Top-ranked  Rafael Nadal  will start
his campaign for a first title at the season-ending ATP World
Tour Finals in London against  Andy Roddick .  Nadal, who completed the career Grand Slam of all four
tennis majors when he won the U.S. Open in September, was made
top seed in Group A. Wimbledon finalist Tomas Berdych plays U.S.
Open finalist  Novak Djokovic  in the other match in Group A.  Roger Federer , who has won the event four times, was made
top seed in Group B. The Swiss Grand Slam record holder plays
Spain’s  David Ferrer  in the evening session of the first day of
the tournament, which starts Nov. 21 at the O2 in east London.
Britain’s  Andy Murray  will open the event in the afternoon
against French Open finalist  Robin Soderling .  The tournament, which was won by Russia’s  Nikolay Davydenko 
last year, will be played in a round-robin format, with the
eight players divided into two groups. Each will face the three
others in the group, with the top two in each section moving
into the knockout semi-finals. Davydenko didn’t qualify for this
year’s final after sustaining a wrist injury at the beginning of
the season.  Ticket sales for the finals have been “strong,”  Adam Helfant , executive chairman and president of the men’s tour,
said at the draw. The event sold more than 250,000 tickets when
it was held in the British capital for the first time last year.  “We are tracking about the same as we were during the same
time last year,” Helfant said. “We’re hoping to move more
tickets this week as the field is set and we can start promoting
the match-ups.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  