-- Italian President to Meet Parliament Speakers as Cabinet Teeters
-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 2010-11-16T13:53:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/napolitano-to-meet-parliamentary-speakers-as-berlusconi-s-cabinet-teeters.html
Italian President  Giorgio Napolitano 
will meet with the speakers of parliament after the survival of
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s government was
jeopardized by the resignation of four top officials.  Napolitano will hold talks with Chamber of Deputies Speaker
 Gianfranco Fini  and  Renato Schifani , his Senate counterpart,
today for an update on the parliamentary agenda. Four members of
former Berlusconi ally Fini’s Future and Liberty for Italy party
quit yesterday in a move meant to bring down the government and
possibly trigger early elections.  Napolitano said he hoped that Italy’s “political and
institutional” situation doesn’t remain “permanently
disrupted,” news agency Ansa reported, citing comments he made
at the re-opening of the presidential palace’s library.  Berlusconi said on Nov. 13 that he would call confidence
votes in both houses of parliament after the 2011 budget plan is
passed to see if he still has the support to govern. Napolitano,
who has made clear that the budget’s passage is a priority, will
sound out the speakers on parliament’s schedule for approving
the spending package and holding the confidence votes.  Budget Approval  The Chamber of Deputies today began discussing the 2011
budget plan, which includes cuts totaling 13 billion euros ($18
billion) to trim the deficit. It was approved on Nov. 13 by the
lower house’s budget committee and will also require passage in
the Senate. It probably won’t become law until around Dec. 25,
according to an e-mailed note from Barclays Capital.  Italy’s five main opposition parties, excluding Fini’s,
pledged to approve the budget bill “without any obstructions”
by the end of November, according to a joint letter sent today
to both speakers of parliament.  Failure to resolve the country’s political impasse quickly
“may be cause for further grave consequences, both internally
and internationally,” according to the letter.  The  yield premium  investors demand to hold Italian 10-year
bonds over similar-maturity German bonds rose to a euro-era
record of 180.9 basis points on Nov. 11 as concern that Ireland
and Portugal may follow Greece in seeking a bailout hurt bonds
of other so-called peripheral countries. The spread rose one
basis point today to 158.7, while Italy’s benchmark  FTSE MIB 
Index was down 0.8 percent at 2:40 p.m. in Milan.  Mediaset Shares  Mediaset SpA , the broadcaster controlled by Berlusconi,
tumbled 4.1 percent today to 4.61 euros a share, taking its loss
in the past five sessions to 15 percent. Mediaset posted a
bigger-than-expected third-quarter net loss on Nov. 10 of 49
million euros.  Its vice chairman, Berlusconi’s son Pier Silvio, said
“Mediaset and its shareholders don’t have to fear a political
change” because the company is “healthy,” Ansa reported,
citing remarks he made at a conference in Milan.  While Berlusconi, 74, may have enough backing in the Senate
to survive a confidence vote, Fini has sufficient votes in the
lower house or Chamber of Deputies to deny the prime minister a
majority and topple the government.  Winning the Senate vote would allow Berlusconi during the
next election campaign to blame Fini’s party “for having been
responsible for the political crisis, an argument we think would
easily diminish the popularity” of the chamber speaker’s new
political grouping, Barclays Capital said.  Fini, who broke with Berlusconi in July, called for his
resignation earlier this month after media reports that the
premier helped secure the release from police custody of a 17-
year-old nightclub dancer. Berlusconi, whose term ends in 2013,
has acknowledged he helped the girl, who had attended a party at
his Milan villa.  The confidence votes may coincide with a decision by
Italy’s Constitutional Court set for Dec. 14 on the validity of
a law passed by the government granting Berlusconi and other top
officials immunity from prosecution while in office. Should the
court rule against the premier, pending corruption trials
against him could resume.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Donovan in Rome at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net . 