-- NBC Moves ‘30 Rock’ to Create All-Comedy Night to Take on ABC
-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 2010-11-16T00:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/nbc-moves-30-rock-to-10-p-m-thurdsay-to-create-all-comedy-nightly-block.html
NBC, the fourth-ranked broadcast
network in viewers, shuffled its prime-time lineup and moved the
Emmy-winning “30 Rock” to 10 p.m. Thursdays to create an all-
comedy night and further close the gap with third-place ABC.  As part of the midseason changes starting in January, NBC
also moved “Outsourced,” a first-year show, to 10:30 p.m. on
Thursdays, the network’s Los Angeles-based entertainment
division said today in a statement.  The move creates a comedy alternative to the dramas or
newsmagazines rivals offer at 10 p.m. The General Electric Co.-
owned network has increased its audience by 4.2 percent this
season in the 18-to-49-year-old group advertisers target,
according to Nielsen Co. data. NBC is averaging 3.69 million
viewers a night in 18-to-49, compared with 3.7 million for Walt
Disney Co.’s ABC, which is down 7.3 percent this season.  NBC previously offered the 7-year-old show “The
Apprentice” during the 10 p.m. time period on Thursdays. On
March 6, a celebrity version of the series, starring Donald
Trump, will begin airing on Sunday nights.  The network’s moves include adding four new comedies,
including “Harry’s Law,” from “Ally McBeal” creator David
Kelley. NBC also said it would move its latest version of the
“Law and Order” crime drama, “Law and Order: Los Angeles, to
Tuesday from Wednesday and shift the drama “Parenthood” to
Monday from Tuesday.  Earlier, the network canceled “Outlaw,” starring Jimmy
Smits, and “Undercovers,” a spy drama produced by “Lost”
creator J.J. Abrams.  Comcast Corp., the largest U.S. cable television company,
is acquiring a 51 percent stake in NBC Universal from GE by
paying $6.5 billion in cash and contributing cable channels
worth $7.25 billion to a joint venture that will own the
entertainment company.  The deal is awaiting regulatory approval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ronald Grover in Los Angeles at 
 Rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  