-- NBC's TV Chairman Jeff Gaspin to Leave Company After Takeover by Comcast
-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 2010-11-16T01:34:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/nbc-tv-chief-gaspin-plans-to-leave-after-comcast-takes-over.html
Jeff Gaspin , chairman of NBC
Universal TV Entertainment, said he will step down after  Comcast
Corp.  assumes control of the television, film and theme-park
company.  Gaspin, who oversees the cable and broadcast operations,
said in a memo today that he couldn’t agree on a role in the new
company during discussions with Comcast Chief Operating Officer
 Steve Burke,  who will become chief executive officer at NBC
Universal.  “As is his prerogative, Steve has determined that he wants
to move in a different direction,” Gaspin told employees.  Comcast plans to announce a new management team at NBC
Universal as soon as this week, people with knowledge of the
matter said on Nov. 12.  Robert Greenblatt , former programming
chief at CBS Corp.’s Showtime network, will oversee NBC’s TV
entertainment operations, they said.  Bonnie Hammer, president of cable entertainment and
production at NBC Universal, will retain oversight of networks
including USA and SyFy, and add Comcast’s E! Entertainment, the
people said. Lauren Zalaznick will remain head of NBC’s women-
focused Bravo and Oxygen networks, gain NBC’s Spanish-language
Telemundo and add Comcast’s Style network, they said.  Universal’s theme parks and movie studio will continue to
be led by  Ron Meyer , the people said. Longtime NBC Sports chief
 Dick Ebersol , NBC News President Steve Capus and CNBC President
 Mark Hoffman  also will stay on, they said.  Gaspin, who started in NBC’s finance department 19 years
ago, became chairman of television entertainment in 2009. This
year, he presided over  Conan O’Brien ’s departure from the
network and the reinstallation of  Jay Leno  as host of “The
Tonight Show.” Earlier in his career, Gaspin helped build NBC’s
cable operation.  Comcast, the largest U.S. cable company, plans to combine
its pay-TV channels with NBC after acquiring a 51 percent in the
combined company. The company’s purchase of NBC is awaiting
federal regulatory approval.  Comcast, based in Philadelphia, rose 16 cents to $20.59
today in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The shares have added 22
percent this year.  GE, based in Fairfield, Connecticut, fell 5 cents to $16.20
on the New York Stock Exchange, and has gained 7.1 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ronald Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Golum at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net  