-- New Zealand Kiwifruit Growers Begin Culling Vines to Stop Disease's Spread
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2010-11-16T05:18:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/new-zealand-kiwifruit-growers-begin-culling-vines-to-stop-disease-s-spread.html
Some kiwifruit growers in  New
Zealand  began culling vines infected with a bacterial disease to
stop the spread of an infection threatening the NZ$1.4 billion
($1.08 billion) industry.  Growers have been advised by the Ministry of Agriculture
and Forestry to remove parts of vines affected by Pseudomonas
syringae pv actinidiae, according to a statement from  Zespri
Group Ltd. , the world’s largest marketer of the fruit. New
Zealand will try to manage the disease rather than eradicate it,
officials said today.  Thirteen orchards in the North Island’s Bay of Plenty
region have tested positive for the bacterial disease, unchanged
from late yesterday, according to Zespri. Sixteen orchards,
including the infected sites, are quarantined, the company said.
The infected orchards represent less than one percent of the
total New Zealand industry, it said.  “To actually cut off the vine is a rather aggressive
strategy,” Zespri spokeswoman Andrea Brady said in an
interview. “You’re removing the source of the damaged material
and any further spread of the disease.”  Meetings between the kiwifruit industry and  government  will
be held today to discuss a response plan which may include
financial support of potentially “tens of millions” of dollars
for growers instructed to remove their vines, Brady said.  New Zealand is the world’s third-biggest kiwifruit grower,
accounting for about 21 percent of global production. The
country earned NZ$1.4 billion from kiwifruit in the year ending
in March, according to Zespri figures.  Market Impact  “The evolving crisis in New Zealand’s kiwifruit industry
probably adds to the near-term downside risk facing the
country’s dollar,” Mike Jones, a Wellington-based currency
strategist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd., said in a note today.  New Zealand’s dollar dropped 2.8 percent in the week ended
Nov. 12, its worst weekly performance since the five days ended
Aug. 13. The disease was discovered on Nov. 8.  Seeka Kiwifruit Industries Ltd. , New Zealand’s largest
grower of the fruit, fell 31 percent in the past two days of
trading in Wellington, paring its market value to NZ$31 million.  Ministry  of Agriculture and Forestry tests indicated some
pollen tested positive for Psa. Growers were advised to take a
“cautious approach” when considering artificial pollination,
ahead of further testing, Zespri said.  “It’s important to note the experience overseas with Psa
varies wildly and in a number of countries its presence has been
effectively managed with limited impact on kiwifruit
production,” Prime Minister  John Key  told reporters in
Wellington yesterday.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Phoebe Sedgman  in Wellington at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  