-- New South Wales Power Assets Sale May Raise $7.8 Billion, Citigroup Says
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-11-17T01:18:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/new-south-wales-power-assets-sale-may-raise-7-8-billion-citigroup-says.html
New South Wales, Australia’s most
populous state, may raise as much as A$8 billion ($7.8 billion)
selling its electricity assets to companies such as  AGL Energy
Ltd.  and  Origin Energy Ltd. , Citigroup Inc. said.  The “gentrader” contracts, or trading rights for the
electricity produced by state-owned producers, may be worth as
much as A$4.9 billion, Sydney-based analyst  Marie Miyashiro 
estimated in a report dated yesterday. The New South Wales
retail power businesses may sell for A$3.1 billion, she said.  The state on Nov. 15 began evaluating bids for the assets,
including retailers EnergyAustralia, Country Energy and Integral
Energy. New South Wales is also offering development sites for
new plants as well as the electricity trading rights. The
government didn’t identify any of the bidders.  Premier  Kristina Keneally  said on Nov. 3 her state’s plan
to sell the assets by the end of the year remains on schedule.
The proceeds would strengthen the state’s finances and reduce
its debt, while spurring competition in the electricity market,
the government said on its website.  The sale effort, which began about 12 years ago, may be
completed in early 2011, state Auditor-General Peter
Achterstraat said in a report earlier this month.  New South Wales has said that selling the assets and
encouraging “private sector investment” in the industry would
allow it to focus its “scarce financial resources” on
providing transportation, health and education services.  Competition Test  Australian regulators are reviewing proposals to acquire
the state’s assets and deciding whether purchases by Australian
electricity and gas retailers AGL and Origin would raise any
competition concerns. The  Australian Competition and Consumer
Commission  is due to report its findings Nov. 25.  The ACCC is the “key to the outcome” of the sale,
Citigroup said. “If the ACCC acts as a ‘showstopper,’ we do not
see any prospect of New South Wales being able to privatize its
energy assets, perhaps not the outcome that the ACCC would like
to see in the interests of consumers if NSW’s energy supply
effectively remains a government-owned monopoly.”  AGL said Nov. 15 it made an offer, while Origin has
previously said it planned to bid. TRUenergy Holdings Pty, the
Australian unit of Hong Kong’s  CLP Holdings Ltd ., was evaluating
a bid, CLP Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Brandler  said Sept.
28.  AGL and Origin would increase their earnings with
acquisitions, Citigroup’s Miyashiro said. The total proceeds for
the state may be A$7.5 billion to A$8 billion, she said.  The energy asset sale represents “the last available
opportunity to obtain a significant retail and generation
presence in Australia’s largest electricity market,” state
Treasurer  Eric Roozendaal  said in a statement this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 