-- NYC Pension Funds Call for Independent Audit of Bank Foreclosure Practices
-- B y   N i s h a d   M a j m u d a r   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2010-11-16T17:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/nyc-pension-call-for-independent-audit-of-foreclosure-practices.html
New York City Comptroller  John C. Liu , who oversees the $106 billion city pension funds, said
directors of the four biggest U.S. banks should conduct
independent audits of their mortgage and foreclosure practices.  Liu filed shareholder requests with the audit committees of
 Bank of America Corp. ,  Wells Fargo & Co. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
and  Citigroup Inc.  to conduct the reviews and report their
results and recommendations by Sept. 30, according to a
statement. The city’s pension funds held $1.77 billion in shares
of the lenders through yesterday, according to  Michael Loughran ,
a spokesman for Liu.  “Something went terribly wrong in the last couple of
years,” Liu said today in an interview with  Carol Massar  on
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop With  Betty Liu .” “We can
no longer rely on management to check internal controls.”  Attorneys general in all 50 states began a coordinated
probe in October into whether banks and loan servicers used
false documents and signatures on foreclosures. Bank of America,
the largest U.S. lender, temporarily halted repossessions
nationwide as it reviewed processes, while New York-based
JPMorgan froze home seizures in states where courts oversee
foreclosures.  ‘Huge Stake’  “We have a huge stake in them,” Liu said. “We want to
limit our exposure but we want to limit the homeowners’ risk.”  Liu’s shareholder proposal was submitted to the four banks
and is scheduled to appear on proxy statements to be voted on at
each bank’s annual shareholder meeting between April and May
2011, the statement said.  “We are reviewing the letter with other shareholder
proposals as part of our annual process,” said  Scott Silvestri ,
a spokesman for Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America.
 Thomas Kelly , a spokesman for JPMorgan, had no immediate
comment.  Mary Eshet , a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo, and  Jon Diat , a spokesman for New York-based Citigroup,
declined to comment.  The pension funds included in the audit request represent
New York City employees, teachers, the board of education and
police and fire departments. The biggest investment in the four
banks is $569 million in JPMorgan, Loughran said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nishad Majmudar  in New York at 
 nmajmudar@bloomberg.net ;
 Donal Griffin  in New York at 
   dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  