-- Vodafone, O2 May Bid for Additional U.K. Spectrum in First Quarter of 2012
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-11-16T13:26:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/ofcom-says-u-k-spectrum-auction-will-start-first-quarter-2012.html
Vodafone Group Plc  and  Telefonica
SA ’s O2 unit will be able to bid for additional frequencies for
high-speed data services in the first quarter of 2012, after a
U.K. regulator set a timetable for spectrum auctions.  Ofcom, the telecommunications regulator, will publish a
consultation and proposals for the auction at the end of
February 2011, Chief Executive Officer  Ed Richards  said today
at the FT World Telecoms Conference in London. Bidding will
take place in the first quarter of 2012 and the frequencies
will be available for use in 2013 after the auction, he said.  Operators in the U.K. including Hutchison Whampoa Ltd.’s 3
division and the newly merged units of Deutsche Telekom AG and
France Telecom SA are seeking access to additional mobile
spectrum to cope with increasing demands for data.  “History is littered with concerns, disagreements and
some litigation,” Richards said. “We can’t rule out further
challenges to these proposals.”  The timetable comes after the sale was delayed by more
than two years. In July, the U.K. government said the auction
would take place at the end of next year. Ofcom had initially
planned to award some spectrum in September 2009, followed by
an additional award of frequencies made available by the ending
of analog television signals.  German Auction  The U.K. auction will follow the sale of spectrum in
Germany and India this year. The German auction raised 4.38
billion euros ($5.96 billion), while frequencies for third-
generation mobile networks in India were sold for $14.6
billion.  “It’s a straightforward way of determining who values the
spectrum most highly,” Richards said.  Telefonica  today questioned the length of time needed for
spectrum to become available after the auction. “The time
between the auction and the product going live to me feels like
a big gap when the technology is available,” Telefonica Europe
Chief Executive Officer  Matthew Key  said at the conference.  Ofcom has started an assessment of competition in the
market and will consider restrictions on bidding, Richards
said.  O2 and Vodafone last month lost a U.K. court bid to start
using their second-generation wireless spectrum for newer
smartphones such as Apple Inc.’s iPhone to improve data
capacity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 