-- Oil Declines a Fourth Day on China Rate Speculation, Europe Debt
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 2010-11-17T07:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/oil-trades-near-two-week-low-on-speculation-fuel-demand-rebound-may-falter.html
Oil fell for a fourth day as
speculation that fuel demand will drop on China’s steps to cool
its economy outweighed signs that U.S. consumption is rising.  Futures retreated as much as 1.4 percent, extending the 
biggest three-day decline since August, after Chinese Premier
 Wen Jiabao  said the government was drafting measures to counter
inflation in the world’s biggest energy consumer. Prices also
fell on concern Europe’s debt crisis is worsening as ministers
considered a rescue package for Irish banks. U.S. crude 
inventories dropped the most since September 2008 and gasoline
demand increased, reports showed yesterday.  “Finally we have some good news on the fundamental front
and everything else is undermining it,” said  Ben Westmore , a
minerals and energy economist at National Australia Bank Ltd.
in Melbourne. “Part of it seems to be some concern that China
might tighten policy. You have what markets perceive to be an
increased probability of a further loss of global confidence
with the European debt concerns resurfacing.”  Crude for December delivery fell as much as $1.16 to $81.18
a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile 
Exchange. It was at $81.46 at 3:52 p.m. Singapore time.
Yesterday, the contract fell $2.52 to $82.34, the lowest
settlement since Oct. 29. Prices are up 2.7 percent this year.  Oil dropped as Wen’s comments, broadcast yesterday on state
television, stoked speculation the government may raise interest
rates to damp economic growth. The Bank of Korea yesterday
increased borrowing costs after inflation surged past the central
bank’s ceiling.  Europe’s Crisis  European finance ministers started work on possible aid for
Ireland’s debt-laden banks, stopping short of an immediate
bailout package. The country’s crisis is stoking concern that
Europe’s debt problems are spreading, weakening the euro versus
the dollar and reducing investor demand for commodities priced 
in the U.S. currency.  The dollar climbed as much as 1 percent to $1.3448
against the euro yesterday, the highest level since Sept. 28. It
was little changed today.  Brent crude for January settlement traded at $83.81, down
92 cents, on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.
Yesterday, the contract lost $2.03, or 2.3 percent, to $84.73.  U.S. Demand  Crude inventories dropped 7.7 million barrels last week,
the American Petroleum Institute said yesterday. An Energy 
Department report today will  probably show  that supplies were 
unchanged, according to a Bloomberg News survey. Oil-supply 
estimates from the two organizations have moved in the same 
direction in seven of the past eight weeks.  U.S. travel during the Thanksgiving holiday weekend will
rise 11 percent from last year on improved economic conditions,
AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring organization, said yesterday.
 Gasoline  consumption at the pump climbed for the first time in
four weeks,  MasterCard Inc.  said in its SpendingPulse report.  U.S. gasoline inventories dropped 1.65 million barrels to
214.6 million last week, the API report showed. Supplies
probably fell by 750,000 barrels, according the survey of the
Energy Department report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  