-- Oil Declines a Third Day on Speculation Fuel Demand Recovery May Falter
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-16T13:23:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/oil-declines-a-third-day-on-speculation-fuel-demand-recovery-may-falter.html
Oil declined for a third day to
trade at a two-week low on speculation Europe’s deepening debt
crisis and government steps to cool Asia’s economic growth will
reduce demand for commodities.  Futures fell after the Bank of Korea raised interest rates
for the second time this year and the China Securities Journal
said the Chinese government will take further steps to control
price increases, while European ministers gathered in Brussels
to discuss aid to Ireland’s banks. An Energy Department report
tomorrow may still show U.S. crude stockpiles fell last week.  “European debt problems have re-emerged, scaring away
investors from risky assets such as oil,” said  Thorbjoern Bak Jensen , an analyst at Global Risk Management in Middelfart,
Denmark. “We expect oil to continue trading in range between
$81 and $90.”  The December crude contract on the New York Mercantile
Exchange dropped as much as $1.30, or 1.5 percent, to $83.56 a
barrel, the lowest price since Nov. 2. The contract was at
$83.75 at 1:21 p.m. London time. Brent crude for January
settlement lost as much as $1.12, or 1.3 percent, to $85.64 a
barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  The Bank of Korea increased interest rates after inflation
surged past the central bank’s ceiling. China will introduce
measures to control rising food prices, the China Securities
Journal reported, citing an unidentified person. The country’s
central bank boosted lending rates in October for the first time
since 2007.  Europe’s Debt  Crude also declined as the  Dollar Index , which tracks the
currency against those of six U.S. trading partners, rose for a
second day, limiting the investment appeal of oil. Concern that
Ireland’s banking crisis is spreading sent the dollar to a six-
week high of $1.3561 against the euro.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 1.2 percent,
erasing yesterday’s 0.8 percent gain, as more than five
companies dropped for every one that rose.  “There’s still a sense of pessimism out there,”  David Taylor , a market analyst at CMC Markets Ltd. in Sydney, said in
a note today. There are “concerns over Ireland’s sovereign
debt, worries over future rate rises in China and the health of
the U.S. economy.”  Crude oil may plunge below $80 a barrel in New York as the
failure of its relative strength index to keep pace with price
gains signals that this month’s rally is over, according to
technical analysis by Commerzbank AG.  Imminent Correction  Futures surged to a two-year high of $88.63 a barrel on
Nov. 11. Oil’s 14-day RSI, a measure of how rapidly prices rise
or fall in that period, failed that day to surpass a nine-month
peak reached in October, indicating gains have run their course
and a downward correction may be imminent, Commerzbank said.  The Energy Department report may show U.S. crude stockpiles
 fell  700,000 barrels last week from 364.9 million barrels,
according to the median of nine analyst estimates surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Fuel supplies also decreased, the survey showed.  The department will release its Weekly Petroleum Status
Report at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow in Washington. The industry-funded
American Petroleum Institute will publish its own data today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ann Koh  in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net ;
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  