-- Home-Pitch Advantage May Tip Ashes Series Australia's Way, Ex-Players Say
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-11-16T13:14:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/home-help-to-tip-ashes-cricket-series-australia-s-way-former-players-say.html
A little local knowledge may go a
long way in deciding the outcome of the Ashes cricket series
between Australia and England, former players said.  The teams resume their 133-year-old rivalry next week in
Brisbane, where England will start its quest to win back-to-back
series for the first time in almost a quarter of a century
following last year’s 2-1 home triumph.  While England has won the past two Ashes series staged in
the U.K., victories 10,000 miles away are rare. England last won
in Australia in 1986-87, when  Mike Gatting ’s team took the best-
of-five contest 2-1. Since then, Australia has won 18 of the 26
Tests played on home soil against the English.  “Home-ground advantage is a big thing, and it could be the
turning point in this series as well,” former Australia captain
 Richie Benaud  told reporters at the Sydney Cricket Ground.
“Usually when Australia go to England they face big problems
there, so it’s not easy.”  Of the 165 Tests played between the teams on Australian
soil, the home side has won 85 to England’s 54, with 26 draws.
The last four Ashes series have been won by the host nation.  It’s not just England that has struggled to win in
Australian conditions. South Africa’s 2-1 victory two seasons
ago was Australia’s first home series defeat in cricket’s elite
format for 16 years. The West Indies are the only other touring
team to have won since Gatting’s squad triumphed.  While the Australians have lost their past three Tests --
their worst run since 1988 -- England won’t have underestimated
the challenge of beating them in their own backyard, according
to retired spin bowler  Shane Warne , who quit after the 2006-07
Ashes series with an Australian record 708 Test wickets.  ‘Tough to Win’  “Australia have only lost two or three series in the last
20 years here,” Warne said. “Whenever you go to someone’s home
conditions it’s very, very tough to win, because the local
players know the conditions better.”  The first Test starts Nov. 25 at Brisbane’s Gabba ground,
where England last won in 1986. The best-of-five match contest
then moves to Adelaide, Perth and Melbourne, before concluding
in Sydney from Jan. 3.  Getting off to a winning start in Brisbane may provide
England with a springboard to snap its series losing streak in
Australia, according to  Mark Taylor , who captained Australia in
16 Ashes Tests.  “If England can win at the Gabba, which is something they
haven’t done for a long time, with the Ashes already in their
keeping they’re going to be very hard to stop,” Taylor said in
an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  