-- Taylor Wimpey Gets Land-Buying Flexibility With $1.5 Billion Loan Facility
-- B y   T i m   B a r w e l l
-- 2010-11-16T09:46:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/homebuilder-taylor-wimpey-gains-land-buying-flexibility-in-loan-agreement.html
Taylor Wimpey Plc , the U.K.’s
second-largest homebuilder by volume, reached agreement on a new
950 million-pound ($1.52 billion) loan facility that makes it
easier for the company to purchase land.  Taylor Wimpey entered talks on a revised credit deal
earlier this year, the London-based company said today in a
statement. Further details will be provided when the refinancing
is concluded by the end of March.  British homebuilders have been expanding their land
holdings since the recession caused values to drop by half,
helping increase profitability. A refinancing deal reached when
Taylor Wimpey was near collapse in April 2009 restricted the
amount of land the company was allowed to purchase. The new debt
agreement removes that limit.  Taylor Wimpey rose as much as 7.4 percent in London trading
and was up 3.6 percent at 25.91 pence as of 9:13 a.m.  “The land-buying restriction was clearly a problem that
could have hindered the company’s growth,”  Rachael Waring , an
analyst at Panmure Gordon in London, said by telephone. “This
doesn’t get away from the fact that the housebuilder still has a
lot of debt.”  Waring rates the stock “hold.”  Taylor Wimpey loans had been set to expire in 2012,
according to Chief Executive Officer  Peter Redfern . Net debt
stands at about 720 million pounds, the company said.  Flexibility  “This should give us operational flexibility for about
four years,” Redfern said on a conference call. The revised
terms are conditional on the company raising 350 million pounds
of debt in the public or private capital markets, he said.  Annual profit before tax will be at the “upper end” of
the company’s forecasts, Taylor Wimpey said. It also announced
that Finance Director  Chris Rickard  will stand down and be
replaced by Ryan Mangold with immediate effect.  House prices in the U.K. have been stable during the second
half of the year, and by reducing costs and purchasing cheaper
land the company should improve its profit margins, Taylor
Wimpey said.  Persimmon Plc , the third-biggest U.K. builder, said
yesterday it bought about 4,000 plots in the second half of the
year. That compares with 754 purchased by Taylor Wimpey.  “We don’t expect the market to do us any favors, but we
can achieve double-digit margins without any help,” Redfern
said. “In three to four years, 15 percent is a reasonable aim,
so is 17 percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Barwell  in London on 
 tbarwell@bloomberg.net  