-- London Hedge-Fund Managers May Be Allowed to Opt Out of Bonus Restrictions
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2010-11-16T15:27:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/london-hedge-fund-managers-may-be-allowed-to-opt-out-of-bonus-restrictions.html
Hundreds of London hedge fund
managers may escape European limits on bonus payments as the
U.K. regulator considers allowing them to opt out of the rules,
according to five people with knowledge of the plans.  Funds may have the option to explain to the Financial
Services Authority why they are unable to comply with rules that
require half of bonuses to be paid in shares, said the people,
some of whom declined to be identified because negotiations are
private. The regulator is reviewing whether the largest hedge
funds must fully comply with the rules, according to the people.  The FSA in July proposed expanding the companies covered by
its bonus rules from 27 banks to 2,500 firms, including building
societies and hedge funds, to comply with European Union
legislation on bank capital. The regulator proposed the
possibility of giving firms a “comply or explain” exception
and the  Committee of European Banking Supervisors  supported that
position last month, said  Darren Fox , a partner at Simmons &
Simmons, who represents hedge funds.  “There is a growing sense that this approach is firming
up,” Fox said in London. “The panicky calls from clients have
reduced. People seem to be less concerned about the most severe
implications of the code because the FSA has been making the
right noises.”  The FSA may also extend the deadline for firms to comply
with the new rules from Jan. 1 until July. Franca Rosa Congiu, a
spokeswoman for CEBS in London, declined to comment.  ‘Apply Proportionality’  “What we’ve said all along is that we would apply
proportionality,” FSA spokeswoman  Heidi Ashley  said in a
telephone interview today. “The smallest firms may well not
have to do what the biggest firms do. We’ll have a single set of
rules, but they may be applied in a different way depending on
the size of the firm.”  Ashley’s comments backed what  Dan Waters , the director of
the FSA’s asset management sector, told hedge fund executives at
“town hall meetings” over the last few months, said  Andrew Shrimpton , former head of hedge fund regulation at the FSA who
now advises hedge funds at London-based Kinetic Partners LLP.  “Dan Waters gave a strong message in his speech that the
bonus rules would be proportional,” Shrimpton said in a
telephone interview.  The proposed requirement for half of bonuses to be paid in
shares and for at least 40 percent to be deferred for three
years or longer “don’t work” for most hedge fund managers, Fox
said.  ‘Don’t Make Sense’  “If the business is actually owned by the people who are
employed by it, and that’s typical in the hedge fund industry, a
lot of the provisions don’t make sense,” Fox said.  Publicly traded hedge funds such as  Man Group Plc  may be
able to argue that if they were forced to comply where other
funds don’t have to, it would put them at a competitive
disadvantage, he said.  Hedge funds are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profits from their
speculation on whether the price of assets will rise or fall.
Hedge funds usually charge investors 2 percent of assets under
management and 20 percent of investment profits.  Forcing asset managers to comply with bonus rules designed
for banks could cause “systemic disruption,” Waters said at a
speech in London in September.  AIMA’s Goal  The Alternative Investment Management Association , whose
members include fund-of-hedge-funds firm Fauchier Partners and
 Man Group , the biggest publicly traded hedge-fund firm, said it
is working with the FSA on the rules.  “AIMA’s goal is to assist the FSA in ensuring that the
remuneration regime, which was crafted mainly with the banking
sector in mind but which also could apply to an extremely wide
range of firms, is pragmatic, proportionate and mindful of the
distinct nature of the asset management business,” said AIMA
Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Baker .  AIMA said in September it hoped that if the regulator’s
bonus code was extended to hedge fund managers, “it would be on
a proportionate basis.”  The FSA is delaying publishing its final rules on bank pay
until December to wait for guidelines from CEBS. The U.K.
regulator’s consultation on bonuses is closed but the final
introduction of the FSA rules is being delayed until CEBS’s
guidelines are released, Ashley said.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 