-- Hong Kong Stock Trading Reaches Record Volume on Chinese Economic Concern
-- B y   H a n n y   W a n
-- 2010-11-16T21:34:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/hong-kong-stock-trading-reaches-record-volume-on-chinese-economic-concern.html
A  record number  of shares traded on
the Hong Kong stock exchange in the last three days amid
mounting concern that the fastest inflation in two years will
prompt China to step up measures to cool its economy.  The total volume of exchange-traded securities surged to an
all-time high of 254.9 billion on Nov. 12, according to data
from the stock exchange. That was followed by 226.7 billion on
Nov. 15, and yesterday’s 215.9 billion, exchange data shows. The
previous high was 211.4 billion on Oct. 20.  The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  dropped for a third day
yesterday, extending its three-day decline to 4.1 percent.
Premier Wen Jiabao said the cabinet is drafting measures to
counter price gains as the government attempts to curb the
fastest inflation in two years. The Hang Seng Index reached its
highest intraday level this year at 24,988.57 on Nov. 8.  Castor Pang , Hong Kong-based research director at Cinda
International Holdings Ltd., said the surge in trading has been
driven by investors’ shift of appetite toward small-cap stocks,
warrants, and derivatives.  “With so many uncertainties lingering, investors are
cautious, and they want to use derivatives for hedging purpose
or as a means of protection of their profit,” Pang said.  China’s consumer prices jumped 4.4 percent in October from
a year earlier, exceeding all 28 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey. The People’s Bank of China in October raised its
benchmark interest rates for the first time since 2007 and last
week boosted lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios by as much as
one percentage point, seeking to tame the fastest inflation in
two years.  Subprime Crisis  Shares of mainland companies accounted for 46 percent of
the HK$20.64 trillion ($2.66 trillion)  capitalization  of Hong
Kong’s  Main Board  as of the end of October, exchange data shows,
up from 16 percent in 1997, when the U.K. returned Hong Kong to
China.  The last time securities volume reached highs on
consecutive days was in January 2008 after the New York Times
reported Merrill Lynch & Co. might write down $15 billion as the
U.S. subprime mortgage crisis grew. Before that, the high was
been in November 2007 after Wells Fargo & Co. said the housing
market was the worst since the Great Depression.  “As the index approaches the 25,000 level, investors have
become less interested in big-caps, and would rather trade
small-cap stocks or warrants as they expect the index to pull
back,” said  Steven Leung , director of institutional sales at
UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. “When you see a number of retailers doing
that, it could be an indicator that in the short term, the
market might be peaking out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 