-- Hong Kong's Unemployment Rate Remains at 20-Month Low of 4.2 Percent
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2010-11-16T11:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/hong-kong-s-unemployment-rate-remains-at-20-month-low-of-4-2-percent.html
Hong Kong’s jobless rate stayed at a
20-month low, supporting consumption and the city’s economic
recovery as the number of employed people surpassed the level
from before the financial crisis.  The  rate  for the three months ended Oct. 31 was 4.2 percent
seasonally adjusted, the city government said on its website
today. That was more than the median 4.1 percent estimate in a
Bloomberg News  survey  of 14 economists.  Hong Kong posted faster-than-estimated growth in the third
quarter, buoyed by exports and consumer spending. Improvements
in the labor market may by limited next year as unemployment and
austerity measures in developed economies cap demand for goods
shipped through the city.  “The labor market is seeing gradual improvement, and the
jobless rate will stabilize at around 4 percent next year,”
 Irina Fan , an economist at Hang Seng Bank Ltd. in Hong Kong,
said before today’s report.  The jobless rate was as low as 3.3 percent at the start of
2008, before the financial crisis deepened and the city entered
a recession.  Total employment rose for a fifth consecutive month to
3,531,400, the highest in almost three years and surpassing the
level before the crisis, said  Matthew Cheung , the city’s labor
secretary, in a statement today.  A seasonal surge in business activity before Christmas and
the New Year will aid employment, Cheung said.  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. , Southeast Asia’s largest bank,
says it plans to increase the number of employees at its Hong
Kong unit by 20 percent next year.  Hong Kong’s economy grew 6.8 percent in the third quarter
from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  