-- Oracle Wins Ruling Upholding Investor Suit Dismissal
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2010-11-16T21:44:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/oracle-wins-appeals-court-ruling-upholding-dismissal-of-shareholder-suit.html
Oracle Corp.  won an appeals court
ruling upholding the dismissal of a 2001 shareholder lawsuit
accusing Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  of insider
trading and misleading investors.  The federal appeals court based in San Francisco ruled that
U.S. District Judge  Susan Illston  correctly threw out the case.
Illston found last year that the shareholders failed to show
that Oracle deceived them when it said an economic slump led the
company to miss forecast earnings.  “Because plaintiffs have not developed evidence sufficient
to permit a reasonable jury to conclude that their losses were
caused by the market’s reaction to defendants’ alleged fraud, as
opposed to Oracle’s poor financial health generally, we affirm
the district court’s order,” the three-judge panel said in
today’s ruling.  Investors claimed improper accounting practices and
unrealistic sales projections were hidden from them while known
to senior management. Shares of Redwood Shores, California-based
Oracle fell 21 percent on March 1, 2001, after the company
disclosed that it would miss a fiscal third-quarter profit
forecast.  They also accused Oracle of hiding problems with the Suite
11i database-management system released in 2000.  Shareholders, including a nurses’ union pension fund,
further alleged that Ellison improperly sold $900 million in
company stock before the announcement.  Sanford Svetcov , a lawyer representing the shareholders,
said he’s disappointed with the ruling and hasn’t decided
whether to litigate the case further.  Dorian Daley , Oracle’s general counsel, said in an e-mailed
statement that the company is pleased with the ruling.  “Despite the millions of dollars that plaintiffs spent on
this case, there was never any evidence to support their
claims,” Daley said.  The case is Nursing Home Pension Fund v. Oracle, 09-16502,
9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 