-- Morgan Stanley's Net `Queen' Meeker Back In Demand, Picks Mobile-Web Stars
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2010-11-17T01:12:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/morgan-stanley-s-net-queen-meeker-back-in-demand-picks-mobile-web-stars.html
Mary Meeker  predicted a $50 billion
online advertising boom in an address at the annual  Web 2.0
Summit  in San Francisco today. The Morgan Stanley analyst said
as well that mobile commerce may gain market share faster than
traditional online retailing.  Meeker, 51, is back in demand. She was called “Queen of
the Net” by Barron’s in 1998, only to see her star dim as
technology stocks plunged and regulators said securities firms
used biased research to lure banking business. These days,
investors are scouring her work anew for would-be Web winners.  “We are trying to invest in the kinds of companies she’ll
mention in her reports,” investor Marc Andreessen said in an
interview.  Andreessen’s venture firm, Andreessen Horowitz LLC, has
bought stakes in Meeker-favored companies including Skype
Technologies SA and Zynga Game Network Inc.  “She is becoming Mary Meeker 2.0,” said  Bing Gordon , a
 partner  at venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield &
Byers. Gordon said Meeker’s research helped persuade his firm to
“do more mobile, bigger and faster.” In March, Kleiner Perkins
said it will double its iFund to $200 million. The investment
pool backs startups that create applications for Apple Inc.’s
handheld devices, such as the iPhone and the iPad.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, is an
investor in Andreessen Horowitz.  Meeker gained renown in the 1990s for predictions on
Internet growth and her bullish calls on Web companies,
including EBay Inc., Amazon.com Inc. and America Online Inc.  Tech Bust  Then came the dot-com bust in 2000. The  Nasdaq  lost 78
percent of its value in less than three years. In 2001, Fortune
published a story titled, “ Where Mary Meeker Went Wrong .” In
2003, after the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission accused
Morgan Stanley and other financial services firms of skewed
analysis, the companies settled for $1.4 billion.  Meeker fared better than analysts such as  Henry Blodget ,
formerly of Merrill Lynch & Co., who was fined and banned for
life from the securities industry; the SEC didn’t accuse Meeker
of wrongdoing. Still, then-New York Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer , who led the probe by state and federal authorities,
said Morgan Stanley failed to supervise its analysts, including
Meeker, and said the company inadequately managed conflicts of
interest between its research and investment-banking divisions.  “She may have a second act, which is never an easy thing
to do on Wall Street,” said  Tom Taulli , an independent
 researcher  on initial public offerings. “But she is going to
have to prove herself. And it’s very difficult: You are
associated with that brand.”  Digging for Data  Meeker says the brickbats flung her way haven’t altered the
way she carries out research. She said Morgan Stanley’s “ The
Internet Report ” in 1995 contended that most companies fail.  “To be a successful analyst, one has to dig deep for
data,” Meeker said in an interview. The report “was thoughtful
about the growth of the Internet, yet cautious about
investments.”  Meeker, a  managing director  who leads Morgan Stanley’s
technology research, spends much of her time these days thinking
about the Web in the iPhone age. In 2012, smartphone shipments
will exceed those of personal computers, she contends.  “It’s the fastest-ramping technology transformation the
world has ever seen,” Meeker said. “I’ve been of the view for
years that the mobile Internet was the next big thing.”  U.S. consumers spend 28 percent of their media time online,
yet only 13 percent of ad spending goes to the Internet. That
creates a $50 billion online advertising “global opportunity,”
according to Meeker’s Web 2.0 presentation.  Mobile Commerce  Another prediction: Mobile commerce may grab retail
spending share “much faster” than traditional e-commerce, she
says. That’s because wireless connections enable impulse
purchases, and location-based services let merchants deliver
coupons and offers to users when they’re most likely to spend.  Some of Meeker’s current thinking was outlined in her
 Mobile Internet Report , a 424-page tome published last year, the
culmination of four years of research.  Yuri Milner , chairman of Russian Internet company Mail.ru
Group Ltd., calls it “the best of what’s been written in this
field.” Mail.ru raised $912 million this month on the London
Stock Exchange with Morgan Stanley among the arrangers.  Meeker, an Indiana native who graduated from  DePauw
University  and earned an MBA from  Cornell University , says she
draws on personal experience, as well as data analysis and
company research, to form her views.  Scottish ‘Epiphany’  She says she had an “epiphany” last year after a three-
hour hike on the coast of Scotland, near St. Andrews. A friend
who accompanied her on the hike used a  Research In Motion Ltd. 
BlackBerry to snap photos and had posted them to Facebook by the
time Meeker returned to her lodging.  “We could get to a point where a very material portion of
content on the Internet is created on Facebook with mobile
devices,” said Meeker, who spends much of her time in New York,
and has a home in Woodside, in California’s Silicon Valley.  Another realization came during a recent plane ride between
Washington and New York. In an informal survey of fellow first-
class passengers, Meeker found four  iPad tablet computers ,
including her own, and surmised that business users are adopting
the iPad more quickly than she had expected. Besides the iPad,
Meeker also boasts a Macintosh, two PCs that run Microsoft
Corp.’s Windows operating system, an iPhone, an Amazon Kindle e-
reader, and several iPod music players.  Executives of companies covered by Meeker say her research
is as probing now as it was more than a decade ago.  3 a.m. Calls  Ken Goldman  was chief financial officer of Excite At Home
Corp., a Redwood City, California-based Internet-service
provider Meeker covered. He recalls receiving phone calls at
home at midnight from Meeker in New York, where it was 3 a.m.  “I used to dread those calls, actually,” he said. “It
was never a 10-minute call; it lasted 45 minutes to an hour.”  Goldman now is CFO of security software maker  Fortinet
Inc. , which went public last year with Morgan Stanley as an
underwriter.  This year marks the seventh-straight year Meeker is
speaking at the Web 2.0 conference. She packs a lot into her 10-
minute presentation, said  John Battelle ,  executive producer  of
the Web 2.0 Summit. Last year, she plowed through 75 slides in
the time most presenters to cover a dozen, he said.  Battelle congratulated Meeker today for leaving time on the
clock after running through only 44.  “The funny thing about Mary is, every year, she tries to
deliver more slides in the same amount of time,” Battelle said.
“She may have mellowed a little bit over the years, but not
much.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Olga Kharif  in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 