-- Mortgage Transfers Are Valid, Group Argues as Foreclosure Hearings Begin
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2010-11-16T16:14:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/mortgage-transfers-are-valid-group-argues-as-congressional-hearings-begin.html
A trade group for companies that
help package loans and leases into securities rejected claims
that mortgage-bond trusts can’t prove ownership of debt they
hold as Congress began hearings on the foreclosure crisis.  The standard practices of the industry result “if
followed, in a valid and enforceable transfer of mortgage notes
and the underlying mortgages,”  Tom Deutsch , executive director
of the New York-based  American Securitization Forum , said in a
 study  released today. Lawmakers in Washington ordered hearings
on mortgage practices after loan servicers including Ally
Financial Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. halted foreclosure
proceedings following revelations of so-called robo-signing.  The trade group focused on whether industry practices
resulted in securitization trusts taking ownership of loans,
though not whether all the paperwork needed for foreclosures is
in order. Without taking ownership of  mortgages  within a set
period after their creation, often 90 days, the trusts may be
unable to later assemble the documents needed for foreclosures
because of contractual requirements or tax rules.  “The law is somewhat unsettled on what actually must be
done via a securitization to complete the transfers correctly,”
visiting Harvard Law professor  Katherine Porter  told a
Congressional Oversight Panel Oct. 27. Porter has said “there
is disagreement on whether the transfer of the notes needed to
have occurred individually,” or potentially with a specific
endorsement to the new holder or a physical transfer.  Legal Challenges  The panel to which she testified, which investigates the
Troubled Asset Relief Program created in 2008, said in a report
today that regulators should conduct new stress tests on banks
because legal challenges to foreclosures and uncertainties in
the housing market could threaten the financial system.  “If document irregularities prove to be pervasive and,
more importantly, throw into question ownership of not only
foreclosed properties but also pooled mortgages, the result
could be significant harm to the financial stability,” the
panel said.  The oversight panel’s  report  said that if the procedures
called for in so-called pooling and servicing agreements, or
PSA, weren’t followed, New York law related to the formation of
trusts would consider the transfer of debt “void.”  The securitization industry, which is claiming the
existence of the PSA in itself shows that the loans were
transferred, is ignoring the language in the agreement, said
Shelby, North Carolina, bankruptcy litigator  O. Max Gardner III .  ‘The Bible’  The PSA is “the bible” for securitization, and the
industry is ignoring the process it outlines for transferring
loans, he said.  “The PSA has specific detailed rules for delivery,
transfer, and possession of the note, and the white paper
completely ignores those” rules, Gardner said. “The powers,
the duties, and rights of the trustee are created, governed and
limited by the PSA. The trustee can’t do anything that is not
provided for by the PSA.”  The securitization industry paper didn’t discuss whether
sellers of mortgages into trusts would need to repurchase the
debt because of missing documentation required under their
contracts.  “The transfer and legal effectiveness of such ownership is
not diminished by the fact that the right to foreclose may be
subject to additional conditions and requirements,” according
to the group’s paper, which was endorsed by 13 law firms
including Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP, Mayer Brown LLP and
SNR Denton US LLP.  Possession is Enough  Possession of mortgage notes is enough to prove ownership,
the group said, arguing that segments of the Uniform Commercial
Code allow for valid transfers even when mortgage notes are
“lost, stolen, or destroyed.” The UCC also allows for the
creation of an interest in such an instrument without it being
physically handed over when there is a “signed a written or
electronic security agreement that describes the mortgage
note,” the group argued in its study.  The Congressional hearings that began today may address
these contentions.  Barbara Desoer  of Bank of America Corp., is
among at least seven banking officials who are set to testify
before lawmakers today and Nov. 18.  Additionally, both House and Senate panels are scheduled to
hear testimony from R.K. Arnold, chief executive officer of
Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, or MERS, an electronic
registration system for mortgage transfers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at   jshenn@bloomberg.net  and;
 Prashant Gopal  in New York at   pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  