-- Lottomatica Hires Banks for Senior, Hybrid Bond Sale
-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   H y d e
-- 2010-11-16T17:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/lottomatica-hires-banks-for-senior-hybrid-bond-sale-first-issue-in-year.html
Lottomatica SpA  is planning its
first bond issue in a year as Italy’s biggest lottery company
refinances debt to support its investment-grade ranking.  The company will meet with investors in Europe tomorrow
ahead of a sale of senior unsecured and hybrid bonds, according
to a banker involved in the transaction, who declined to be
identified before the deal is completed.  Rome-based Lottomatica last sold bonds in November 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company posted a
third-quarter net loss of 13.2 million euros ($18 million)
yesterday compared to a profit a year earlier. The shares
dropped 9.5 percent to 10.45 euros in Milan.  “The refinancing package aims at ensuring the group’s key
strategic target of maintaining an investment-grade rating,
which is also underpinned by the issuance of the hybrid bond,”
 Susanne Reichhuber , an analyst at UniCredit SpA wrote in a note.  The company’s senior debt is rated BBB-, the lowest
investment-grade ranking, by Standard & Poor’s and an equivalent
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service.  Lottomatica said yesterday it will refinance 1.9 billion
euros of bank facilities due 2012. The lottery company is also
selling a minority stake in its Italian Scratch & Win business
for 100 million euros.  Travel & Leisure  The Markit iBoxx Euro Travel & Leisure index has risen 2
percent this year to 86.54, according to Markit Group Ltd.’s
website. The index tracks six bonds by companies including
Lottomatica, hotel chain Accor SA and cruise ship operator
Carnival Plc.  “This is a rare issuer from the very small iBoxx travel
and leisure sector,”  Harpreet Parhar , a credit strategist at
Credit Agricole in London, said by e-mail. “As such it provides
investors with a good diversification opportunity.”  Credit Suisse Group AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Mediobanca
SpA, Societe Generale SA and UniCredit are managing the senior
note sale, said the banker.  Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank AG and Mediobanca are
coordinating the issue of hybrid notes, which share
characteristics of both debt and equity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Martin  in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net ;
 Caroline Hyde  at 
 chyde3@bloomberg.net . 