-- Movitel to Invest $436 Million in Mozambique Mobile Operation by 2015
-- B y   F r e d   K a t e r e r e   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-11-16T11:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/movitel-to-invest-436-million-in-mozambique-mobile-operation-by-2015.html
Movitel, which was awarded the
right to operate Mozambique’s third mobile-phone service this
month, plans to invest $436 million between 2011 and 2015
setting up its network, the southeast African nation’s
communications regulator said.  The new operator is a venture between Viettel Group, a
unit of Vietnam Military Telecommunications Corp., and SPI-
Gestao e Investimentos, the investment arm of Mozambique’s
ruling party. It will compete against Johannesburg-based
 Vodacom Group Ltd. ’s Mozambican unit and state-owned Mocambique
Celular SARL, which operates under the brand Mcel.  Movitel has to start operations within 12 months, Americo
Muchanga, director of the regulator, said today in an interview
from Maputo, the capital.  Movitel spokesman Raimos Sengo was in a meeting and not
immediately available for comment.  The new operator may take 5 percent to 15 percent of the
market, which may double in size by 2015, Vodacom Mozambique
Chief Executive Officer Jose dos Santos said in a Nov. 11
interview in Cape Town.  “Nobody is going to make their lives easy,” dos Santos
said. “We have just got to see what their objective is and
what their strategies are.”  Revenue Growth  Mcel, which became Mozambique’s first mobile provider in
1997, has more than 4 million subscribers, according to the
Maputo-based company’s Web site.  Vodacom, Africa’s second-biggest mobile-phone service and
a unit of  Vodafone Group Plc , has been operating in Mozambique
since December 2003 and has almost 3 million subscribers in the
country.  Revenue from the country’s mobile-phone industry may more
than quadruple to $1.8 billion by 2015 as competition and
demand from consumers and businesses increase, researcher Frost
& Sullivan said in a report in July 2009.  At present “you are talking about 30 percent to 32
percent penetration in terms of the population” who use
mobile-phone services, Dos Santos said. The cost of handsets
“is the main barrier to entry. It’s not coverage any more,
it’s not distribution.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Fred Katerere  in Maputo at 
 fkaterere@bloomberg.net 
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 