-- Pacino's Fiery Shylock Burns in Broadway `Merchant of Venice': John Simon
-- B y   J o h n   S i m o n
-- 2010-11-16T03:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/pacino-s-fiery-shylock-burns-in-broadway-merchant-john-simon.html
Al Pacino  is ferociously over-the-
top as Shylock, the embittered Jew at the heart of  Shakespeare ’s
black comedy, “The Merchant of Venice.”  Courageously, director  Daniel Sullivan  avoids making the
revenge-thirsty moneylender more assimilated and sympathetic, or
the duplicitous Christians less anti-Semitic. Essentially, we
have here a comedic Jew, as the playwright no doubt intended
him, in a part that today comes close to the tragic.  There have been some improvements in the journey from the
 Delacorte  in Central Park to the  Broadhurst Theatre  on Broadway.
David Harbour is a manly, perhaps slightly too footballerish
Bassanio, but definitely more effective than his predecessor. As
Shylock’s servant Launcelot Gobbo, Christopher Fitzgerald brings
fresh humor  Mark Wendland’s unit set is a revolving circular fence made
of seemingly steel rods surmounted in one place by a metallic
tower representing various domiciles. The fence can part,
allowing entrances and exits, and is largely compelling without
in any way suggesting Venice.  Carnival Time  Jess Goldstein’s vaguely modern-dress costumes are
effective in their quasi-timelessness, as are the giant heads
devised for an interpolated carnival procession. Add dramatic
lighting by Kenneth Posner and jolly wigs, dances and scuffles,
and credit Sullivan’s engaging conception of the play.
Particularly noteworthy are the farcical casket scenes, with
Isaiah Johnson and Charles Kimbrough providing expert comedy as
Portia’s unsuccessful suitors.  Byron Jennings  is a properly affecting, nobly suffering
Antonio. As a grating-voiced Portia,  Lily Rabe  is less so, at
least until she dons male garb to give us an uncommonly
persuasive masculine defense lawyer.  Pretty Heather Lind is now a better-spoken, more appealing
Jessica, the high point of her winsomeness being a daring leap
from the tower into the arms of Seth Numrich’s Lorenzo below.  Gerry Bamman  is a model Duke of Venice, but  Jesse L. Martin’s  Gratiano carries bonhomie a bit too close to bluster.
Other parts are competently handled, and the verse is generally
well spoken, not often the case in American Shakespeare.  Fiery Baptism  Sullivan has added a humiliating baptism as Shylock is
dunked in a wading pool, but also a Pyrrhic victory for him when
he defiantly dons his yarmulke as he exits.  Unfortunately, the nocturnal love scene for Lorenzo and
Jessica falls flat, mostly because the set allows for no moonlit
bank and natural beauty.  The pool also enables Jessica to dangle her legs in it, and
the director to provide a curious ending. The stage clears of
all but Portia, high on the tower, and Jessica below, as they
exchange a long, presumably meaningful glance.  Does it signify female power tacitly ruling the world?  Through Jan. 9 at 235 W. 44th St. Information: +1-212-239-
6200;  http://www.telecharge.com .
Rating: ***  ( John Simon  is the New York drama critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Simon in New York at  jis1925@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 