-- Panamericano Rescue May Cut Loan Purchases, JPMorgan, Bank of America Say
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-11-16T16:03:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/panamericano-rescue-may-cut-loan-purchases-jpmorgan-bank-of-america-say.html
Banco Panamericano SA ’s 2.5 billion-
real ($1.5 billion) rescue may hurt Brazil’s smallest banks as
increased “scrutiny” cuts demand for loan-portfolio purchases,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp. said.  Banco Cruzeiro do Sul SA ’s rating was cut at Bank of
America because the lender’s dependence on credit assignments
makes it vulnerable after the bailout, according to a note to
clients today. Larger lenders may limit loan-portfolio buying, a
“key source of funding” for smaller rivals, according to a
Nov. 12 report from JPMorgan sent by e-mail today.  Panamericano, based in Sao Paulo, is the target of a
criminal investigation after the central bank found accounting
inconsistencies that sparked last week’s bailout by controlling
shareholder Grupo Silvio Santos. Shares and bonds of Brazil’s
smallest banks tumbled, led by Panamericano, after the probe
cast doubt on the industry’s accounting practices.  “Banks who buy portfolios may reduce their appetite for
those loans and increase due diligence,”  Frederic de Mariz  and
 Saul Martinez , analysts at JPMorgan, wrote in the note. Brazil’s
five largest banks own 77 percent of the country’s deposits,
“which makes access to funding a structural issue for small
banks,” they wrote.  Yields Rise  The yield on Panamericano’s 8.5 percent bonds due in 2020
has jumped to 9.99 percent from 6.93 percent on Nov. 4,
according to prices from Trace. The stock has dropped 38 percent
in the same period, trading at 4.77 reais at 10:37 a.m. New York
time today.  Cruzeiro and its competitors may suffer from “less
favorable” terms for credit assignments following
Panamericano’s rescue,  Jorg Friedemann , an analyst at Bank of
America in Sao Paulo, wrote in the note.  Cruzeiro’s “high dependence on income from credit
assignments makes it more vulnerable to any changes to, or
additional scrutiny of, credit assignment guidelines going
forward,” wrote Friedemann, who lowered his rating on the bank
to “underperform” from “neutral.”  “The bank’s ability to generate income from this source
could come under pressure,” he wrote.  State-controlled lender Caixa Economica Federal is unlikely
to increase its stake in Panamericano as it may be reluctant to
“give the appearance that a public bank is bailing out a
private one,” according to JPMorgan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  