-- Panamericano Rallies on Growing Speculation Bank Poised to Be Acquired
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-11-16T21:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/panamericano-rallies-on-growing-speculation-bank-poised-to-be-acquired.html
Banco Panamericano SA , the Brazilian
bank being investigated for alleged fraud, rallied after last
week’s 37 percent plunge on speculation the company may be
acquired.  The stock rose 4.4 percent in Sao Paulo to 4.97 reais as of
the 3 p.m. New York time close.  Panamericano, based in Sao Paulo, climbed as much as 6.7
percent after O Estado de S. Paulo columnist  Sonia Racy  reported
on the newspaper’s  website  that Banco BMG SA may buy the lender,
without saying how she got the information. The central bank
opened the probe after finding accounting inconsistencies that
sparked last week’s 2.5 billion-real ($1.4 billion) bailout by
controlling shareholder Grupo  Silvio Santos  through a loan from
the nation’s deposit insurance fund.  “The possibility that the bank could be sold is
positive,” said  Fausto Gouveia , who helps manage 200 million
reais ($115 million) in  stocks  at Legan Administracao de
Recursos in Sao Paulo. “It’s very early to talk about
acquisition, but this is the first step. They still have to find
out how big the problem was.”  Banco BMG, based in Belo Horizonte, denied the report in an
e-mailed statement after the market closed. The bank is “open
to new opportunities,” according to the statement.  Panamericano bonds fell, pushing the yield on debt due in
2020 up 69 basis points, or 0.69 percentage point, to 10.40
percent. Banco BMG bonds also dropped, lifting the yield on
securities due in 2019 by 24 basis points to 8.96 percent. Banco
BMG isn’t listed.  Grupo Silvio Santos, the holding company of the Brazilian
media mogul, rescued the bank after taking out a loan from the
deposit insurance fund, which is financed by banks operating in
Brazil. State-run Caixa Economica Federal owns a minority stake
in Panamericano.  ‘Severely Damaged’  While Panamericano’s reputation has been “severely
damaged,” its capital will be “intact” after the probe by the
central bank and prosecutors ends, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts
 Frederic de Mariz  and  Saul Martinez  wrote in a Nov. 12 report
sent by e-mail today.  “Panamericano’s brand has value, in our view,” the
analysts wrote. “We do not believe that clients’ delinquencies
will increase on the back of this crisis.”  Caixa Economica Federal is unlikely to increase its stake
in Panamericano and at the same time “brings value to the
franchise, in terms of funding solidity and potential
synergies,” they wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  