-- Paulson Trims Bank of America, Sells Entire Goldman Sachs Stake
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2010-11-16T16:51:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/paulson-trims-bank-of-america-sells-entire-goldman-sachs-stake-in-quarter.html
Paulson & Co., the hedge fund run by
 John Paulson , trimmed positions in  Bank of America Corp .,  Wells
Fargo & Co.  and  Citigroup Inc.  in the third quarter and sold off
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as regulatory changes and disputes over
faulty mortgages threatened to hurt bank profits.  Paulson, whose New York-based hedge fund has $33 billion in
assets, sold 30 million Bank of America shares in the quarter,
or about 18 percent of his stake, according to a regulatory
filing yesterday. The billionaire’s position in the Charlotte,
North Carolina-based bank was valued at $1.8 billion as of Sept.
30. Bank of America shares fell 8.8 percent in the quarter.  Revenue at U.S. banks shrank in the third quarter, led by
Goldman Sachs and Citigroup, as tighter capital rules and
restrictions on bank trading are squeezing lenders. Banks also
may be forced to repurchase as much as $179.2 billion in
mortgages that were packed into securities, according to
 Christopher Gamaitoni , vice president of research at Compass
Point Research & Trading LLC in Washington.  “For the hedge funds, I think a lot of the easy money had
been made in bank shares,” said  Doug Ciocca , managing director
at Renaissance Financial Corp. in Leawood, Kansas, which
oversees $2 billion in assets. “From here it will be harder to
swallow a process of financial reform and that will impact
profits, especially when the banks are struggling with their
identity.”  Citigroup, Wells Fargo  Paulson’s fund also cut its Citigroup stake by 16 percent,
yesterday’s filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission showed. The firm still owned $1.7 billion in shares
of the New York-based bank.  Paulson trimmed his Wells Fargo stake by 11 percent,
holding 15.5 million shares in the San Francisco-based bank
valued at $389 million as of Sept. 30.  He cut his position in JPMorgan Chase & Co. by 29 percent,
keeping a $190 million stake in the New York company, and sold
his entire holding in New York-based Goldman Sachs, valued at
about $144.4 million at midyear.  Paulson told clients at a recent meeting he doesn’t see a
significant risk that banks may be forced to buy back mortgages,
said a person who was present and asked not to be identified
because the fund is private. A spokesman for Paulson declined to
comment.  Biggest Seller  Paulson was the biggest seller of Bank of America among
hedge funds, which in aggregate sold a net 34.9 million shares
in the quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hedge funds added a net 510.8 million shares to existing
stakes in Citigroup during the quarter. That was their fourth-
largest net addition, behind Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan,
Genzyme Corp. and Apple Inc., the Bloomberg data show.  The combined net revenue of the six largest U.S. banks fell
by an average of 8 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier, driven by declines in everything from trading at
Goldman Sachs to home lending at Bank of America. New laws
restricting account and credit-card fees, as well as derivatives
and capital rules, are also squeezing lenders.  Bank of America and other banks halted foreclosures after
court documents surfaced showing employees at some of the
largest mortgage firms signed foreclosure paperwork without
checking the accuracy, throwing home seizures into doubt. The
bank, along with Wells Fargo, instituted a review of the
procedures and attorneys general in all 50 states are
investigating.  Paulson’s largest fund, Advantage Plus, rose 2.5 percent
this year through Oct. 31. Funds that bet on corporate events
such as mergers and bankruptcies have climbed 8.6 percent on
average, according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Paulson & Co. had been betting on an economic recovery by
2012, before the firm scaled back its bullish investments.
Paulson, 54, said in September that he believes the global
recovery remains intact, and that he expects to make money in
the next two years with the stocks of companies going through
bankruptcies, restructurings and reorganizations.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Katherine Burton  in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
 Dakin Campbell  in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 