-- Paul Calello, Credit Suisse Investment Bank Head, Dies
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2010-11-16T23:43:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/paul-calello-chairman-of-credit-suisse-s-investment-bank-dies-at-age-49.html
(Corrects firm’s name in fifth paragraph.)  Paul Calello , who as head of  Credit
Suisse Group AG ’s investment bank managed the unit through the
financial crisis and helped build the company’s operations in
Asia, died today. He was 49.  Calello died in New York of non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma, the
bank said in a statement. He stepped down as chief executive
officer of the Zurich-based company’s investment bank in
September 2009 to undergo treatment for cancer. Calello
relinquished his title almost 10 months later to acting CEO  Eric Varvel  and became chairman of the unit.  “Paul Calello was an outstanding leader, and a down-to-
earth, very human colleague who forged strong relationships and
made a positive difference in the world around him,” Credit
Suisse CEO  Brady Dougan , 51, said in an e-mailed statement. “We
will miss him greatly.”  Calello and Dougan were part of the Bankers Trust Corp.
team that left in 1990 to start Credit Suisse Financial
Products, a derivatives subsidiary of the Swiss bank. Dougan and
Calello ascended the ranks as derivatives -- contracts with
values derived from assets or events -- became an increasingly
important money-maker for Wall Street.  Calello, a Boston native, received an MBA from Columbia
University’s Business School in New York. He was a member of the
board of overseers at the school, which in October announced the
establishment of the Paul Calello Professorship in Leadership
and Ethics. The permanent chair was endowed by a group of Credit
Suisse colleagues.  ‘Rare Guy’  “I knew him in Asia when times were really good and he was
a terrific manager, but I also knew him in New York when times
were bad,” said  Glenn Hubbard , dean of the business school.
“It’s a rare guy who’s good in both good times and bad.”  Calello stood out as a leader during the financial crisis
by advising the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on policy
matters and reforming Credit Suisse’s compensation system, said
Hubbard, who served as chairman of President  George W. Bush ’s
Council of Economic Advisors from 2001 to 2003. In a January
article Calello wrote for the Economist, he suggested creating a
“bail-in process” that would replace the need for banks to get
bailouts.  Calello started his career with research jobs at the Federal
Reserve in Boston and Washington before joining Bankers Trust.
He was on a short list of candidates to replace  Timothy F. Geithner  as president of the New York Fed in 2009, after
Geithner was nominated to be Treasury secretary.  William Dudley ,
who ran the New York Fed’s financial-markets division, got the
job.  20-Year Career  During his 20-year career at Credit Suisse, Calello held
jobs in London, Hong Kong, New York and Tokyo. He served as
global head of fixed-income derivatives and commodities from
1992 to 2000 and became a member of the bank’s executive board
in 1997. In 2002, Calello became chairman and CEO of Credit
Suisse’s investment bank in the Asia-Pacific region and in 2006
he gained responsibility for all the bank’s activities in Asia.  While Calello was running the business in Asia, Credit
Suisse won roles arranging the $22 billion initial public
offering of Industrial & Commercial Bank of  China Ltd. , the $9.2
billion IPO of  China Construction Bank Corp.  and the $3.5
billion IPO of  China Life Insurance Co.  Ltd.  When Dougan was promoted to Credit Suisse CEO in May 2007
from his role running the investment bank, Calello succeeded him
and moved to New York from Hong Kong. As the financial crisis
engulfed Wall Street, Calello and Dougan curbed risk-taking and
helped Credit Suisse avoid government bailouts required by
competitors like  UBS AG  and  Citigroup Inc.   Attended Lehman Meeting  Calello, who attended the 1998 emergency meeting at the New
York Fed that helped engineer a rescue of hedge fund Long-Term
Capital Management LP, was again at the Fed a decade later for a
weekend meeting that unsuccessfully tried to save Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  In Dec. 2008, responding to criticism of bonuses following
the financial crisis and bank bailouts, Calello used some of the
illiquid loans and bonds weighing down the lender’s  balance
sheet to pay bankers.  Instead of cash or stock, managing directors and directors
received a stake in a pool of about $5 billion of leveraged
loans and commercial mortgage-backed debt. The plan was
described as “monstrously clever,” by Dirk Hoffman-Becking, an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. in London. As of August
2009, the pool was said to have returned 17 percent.  Enjoyed Public Duties  An athlete who said he preferred running and cycling to
watching sports like baseball, Calello lived in Brooklyn and
sometimes commuted to his downtown Manhattan office on a Vespa.
He also said he relished the public duties of his job, such as
hosting client lunches at the World Economic Forum in Davos,
Switzerland, as well as speaking to the press.  Calello was a member of the Foreign Policy Association
board of directors, the board of the New York Philharmonic and
the Council on Foreign Relations. He also served as a trustee to
the Credit Suisse Foundation.  Calello is survived by his wife, Jane DeBevoise, a daughter
and three sons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 