-- Pence to Introduce Bill Requiring Fed to Focus on Promoting Stable Prices
-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 2010-11-16T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/pence-to-introduce-bill-requiring-fed-to-focus-on-promoting-stable-prices.html
U.S. Representative  Mike Pence ,
chairman of the House Republican Conference, said he plans to
introduce a bill today that would force the Federal Reserve to
focus solely on controlling inflation in making monetary policy.  The central bank is currently required by a 1977 amendment
to the Federal Reserve Act to promote stable prices and full
employment. Matt Lloyd, communications director for the
conference, said in an e-mail yesterday that Pence wants the
legislation to be considered in Congress’s current lame-duck
session.  The Fed’s Nov. 3 decision to buy $600 billion of Treasuries
in a bid to reduce unemployment is being criticized by officials
in China, Germany, and Brazil, as well as U.S. economists
including  John Taylor  and  Michael Boskin . Pence joined the
critics yesterday, following an open letter sent by a group of
economists and former Republican government officials that asked
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to halt the expansion of monetary
stimulus.  “The Fed’s dual mandate has failed,” Pence, of Indiana,
said in a statement yesterday.  “It’s time for the Fed to be solely focused on price
stability and not the recently announced QE2,” said the 51-
year-old lawmaker. Pence said the Fed’s second round of
quantitative easing will monetize the U.S. government’s debt and
ignite inflation.  ‘Dumb Fight’  House Financial Services Committee Chairman  Barney Frank 
said yesterday that “it would be a very dumb fight” for
Republicans to press legislation to eliminate the Fed’s dual
mandate.  “The notion that the Fed should be indifferent to
unemployment is a terrible idea, damaging to the economy,” the
Democrat from Massachusetts told reporters.  Democrats still control both houses during the lame-duck
session that began yesterday. Republicans gained at least 60
House seats in the Nov. 2 election, enabling the party to seize
a majority in the chamber in January. Republicans gained six
seats in the Senate, trimming the Democrats’ control to 53-47.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vivien Lou Chen  in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  