-- Peru Plans to Create Second-Tier Exchange for Mid-Size Companies Next Year
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2010-11-16T22:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/peru-plans-to-create-second-tier-exchange-for-mid-size-companies-next-year.html
The Lima Stock Exchange aims to
create a second-tier exchange next year to cut costs for mid-
size companies seeking to hold initial public offerings, said
 Michel Canta , chairman of Peruvian securities regulator Conasev.  The exchange, to be modeled along the lines of the Lima
Venture Exchange for mining exploration firms, may attract
family-owned fishing, manufacturing, services and construction
companies, Canta said today in an interview in Lima.  “This gives medium-sized companies an incentive by
reducing costs for issuing shares,” Canta said. “There’s a
wide range of companies that are potential candidates for this
market and institutional investors ready to assume the extra
risk.”  Initial public offerings will increase as integration with
the stock exchanges of Chile and Colombia spurs investor demand,
Lima Stock Exchange President  Roberto Hoyle  said today in an
interview in Lima. Peruvian fishing company  Pesquera Exalmar SA 
raised $122 million from investors from the three Andean
countries in a Nov. 3 IPO, Hoyle said.  Investors in Peru and Chile will be able to buy shares on
all three exchanges in January. The integrated Andean market
will have a value of $661 billion, more than $475 billion for
Mexico and second in Latin America behind Brazil’s $1.75
trillion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Institutional
investors will begin trial runs Nov. 22.  Market Liquidity  Greater liquidity in a combined market will also attract
mining exploration and retail companies looking to finance
expansion plans, said  Enrique Ferrand , chief executive officer
of BBVA Banco Continental SAB.  Peru, the world’s second-largest copper producer and No. 1
in silver, has lined up $40 billion in mining projects through
2015, according to the country’s  Energy & Mines Ministry .  “Integration will help make the Lima Exchange liquid
enough to ensure IPOs become more common,” Ferrand said in a
Nov. 5 interview. “This will create a virtuous circle for
companies like mining juniors that are starting to develop their
projects.”  The Lima  General Index  fell for a third session, dropping
2.9 percent to 19,563.53.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Emery  in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  