-- Peru Pension Funds to Sell Local Stocks, Buy Chile Shares, Profuturo Says
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2010-11-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/peru-pension-funds-to-sell-local-stocks-buy-chile-shares-profuturo-says.html
Peru’s pension funds will cut local
stock holdings to buy Chilean and Colombian shares as exchanges
in the three nations move toward integration, said  Mariano Paz Soldan , chief executive officer of pension fund  Profuturo AFP .  Peru’s four pension funds, which manage $30 billion, own
10.6 percent of the shares listed on the  Lima Stock Exchange ,
according to the Andean country’s banking regulator. The funds
have invested 27 percent of their assets abroad, approaching the
30 percent legal limit, said Paz Soldan, who manages $3.8
billion at Profuturo, the nation’s fourth-largest pension fund.
He declined to say which stocks Profuturo plans to sell.  “We definitely need to restructure our  portfolios ,” Paz
Soldan said in a Nov. 13 interview in Cuzco. “We’ve nearly
reached the ceiling on investing in international markets, so we
want to be able to take advantage of the integration.”  Investors in Peru and Chile will be able to buy shares on
all three exchanges in January. The integrated Andean market
will have a value of $661 billion, more than $475 billion for
Mexico and second in Latin America behind Brazil’s $1.75
trillion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Institutional
investors will begin trial runs Nov. 22.  The Finance Ministry sent a bill to Congress requesting an
extension on the limit for investment abroad by Peru’s pension
funds to 50 percent, Paz Soldan said. The bill has the backing
of the central bank and will probably be passed before Congress
the end of the congressional session on Dec. 15, he said.  Exchange Integration  Peru’s pension funds own 34 percent of both Repsol YPF SA’s
 Refineria la Pampilla SA  oil refinery and financial holding
company Credicorp Ltd., as well as 11 percent of gold miner  Cia.
de Minas Buenaventura , three of the most traded stocks on Peru’s
Lima General Index, the companies said last week.  The  Lima General Index  has surged 42 percent this year,
compared with a 38 percent jump for Chile’s  Ipsa Index  and a 30
percent gain for Colombia’s IGBC Index. The MSCI Latin America
Index has advanced 8.7 percent this year.  The planned integration of securities trading in the three
countries will increase volume and boost the market for initial
public offerings,  Jose Antonio Martinez , chief executive officer
of the Bolsa de Comercio de Santiago, Chile’s biggest exchange
by trading, said in an interview last week.  The integrated bourses, to be called MILA, or Mercado
Integrado Latinoamericano, aim to begin a series of common
indexes in the first half of next year before including fixed-
income securities, Martinez said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Bristow  in Lima at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  