-- Petra Fund Creditor KBS Loses Bid for Probe of Assets
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2010-11-16T18:27:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/petra-fund-reit-creditor-kbs-seeks-probe-of-assets-update1-.html
The bankruptcy judge overseeing the
reorganization of real-estate investment trust Petra Fund REIT
Corp. said she is unlikely to approve a creditor’s request for
an investigation of possible asset transfers by the company.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Shelley Chapman  at a hearing today in
Manhattan did approve a motion by Petra that prevents the
creditor, KBS Preferred Holding I LLC, from pursuing enforcement
of a $65.9 million judgment it won in June in a New York state
court. KBS’s lawsuit sought to collect on a $50 million loan.  “I’m not giving authority to investigate,” Chapman told
lawyers for both sides. “They’ve got the right to some
reasonable discovery,” she said of KBS’s request for Petra’s
documents and possible depositions of witnesses. “My preference
is that you try to work it out between the two of you.”  KBS said in a court filing yesterday that New York-based
Petra began transferring assets to affiliated companies in 2007.
Among the assets were $136 million in mortgages or notes tied to
real-estate projects including condominiums on Manhattan’s Upper
West Side, KBS said.  Lawyers for Petra said in court that the filing was made
late last night and they didn’t have time to respond to it.  ‘Lot of Allegations’  “We’d like some time to respond accordingly,” Brian
Goldberg, a lawyer for Petra, told the judge. “There are a lot
of allegations.”  KBS said in its motion that Petra filed for bankruptcy
protection last month after KBS sought documents relating to
company assets and transfers.  Petra, listing assets of as much as $10 million and
liabilities of as much as to $500 million, blamed its Chapter 11
filing on “the extraordinary and unprecedented collapse of the
credit and commercial real estate markets.”  The REIT last year negotiated a plan support agreement with
its secured lenders,  JPMorgan & Chase Co. ’s Bear Stearns unit
and  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc  that required a Chapter 11
filing. Petra didn’t reach an accord with KBS, based in Newport
Beach, California.  Goldberg said today that Petra expects to file its Chapter
11 plan, based on that plan support agreement, early in the
first quarter of 2011.  The case is In re Petra Fund REIT Corp., 10-15500, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Don Jeffrey  in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  