-- Philippines May Hold Interest Rate as Inflation Eases, Capital Flows Surge
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 2010-11-17T04:07:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/philippines-may-hold-interest-rate-as-inflation-eases-capital-flows-surge.html
The Philippine central bank will
probably keep borrowing costs at a record low as easing
inflation gives policy makers room to avoid an increase that may
boost capital inflows and strengthen the currency.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will maintain its  benchmark
interest rate  at 4 percent for a 12th straight meeting tomorrow,
according to all 16 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.
Philippine  inflation  eased to an 11-month low last month, with
consumer prices rising 2.8 percent from a year earlier.  The moderation in price pressures gives the Philippines
scope to put off rate increases that would offer a greater lure
to inflows of speculative capital. Neighbors from Thailand to
Indonesia have held off on raising borrowing costs this quarter,
in part to avoid widening the gap with advanced economies like
the U.S., which is keeping interest rates near zero and
undertaking quantitative easing to spur expansion.  “The Philippines has absolutely benign inflation pressures
relative to most of the region, giving Bangko Sentral more room
to support growth,” said  Vincent Conti , a Singapore-based
analyst at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. “With the
extra liquidity from the quantitative easing in the U.S., policy
makers wouldn’t want to contribute to the surging capital flows
by raising rates amid an already strengthening peso.”  All of Asia’s most-traded currencies except the Hong Kong
dollar have appreciated against their U.S. counterpart this year.
The Philippine peso rose to the strongest level in more than two
years this month, reaching 42.47 a dollar on Nov. 4.  The Philippine central bank has “elbow room” to maintain
interest rates as global vulnerabilities “remain elevated,”
Governor  Amando Tetangco  said in a speech in Manila today.  Korea’s Move  Asia is attracting funds as the region’s economies are
growing faster than developed nations, and some central banks
have raised borrowing costs to curb price pressures.  The Bank of Korea increased interest rates for the second
time this year yesterday after inflation surged past the central
bank’s ceiling. On Nov. 2, India’s central bank raised rates for
the sixth time in 2010 while Australia unexpectedly increased
its benchmark, ending a five-month pause.  A stronger peso could crimp the record gains in Philippine
exports that have supported President  Benigno Aquino ’s efforts
to expand the $160 billion economy by as much as 8 percent
annually from 2011. Sales abroad grew 46.1 percent in September
from a year earlier to an unprecedented $5.31 billion, the
biggest jump on record based on Bloomberg data going back to
January 1981.  Aquino, who took office in June, is offering investors more
than 700 billion pesos ($16 billion) of infrastructure projects
as he seeks to boost incomes in a nation where the World Bank
estimates one out of four people live on less than $1.25 a day.  Capital Flight  The Federal Reserve said this month it will purchase $600
billion of Treasuries to spur the U.S. economy, a move that
investors including  Mohamed A. El-Erian  of Pacific Investment
Management Co. said will cause some of the money pumped into the
economy to leak outside the U.S. and strengthen currencies in
other nations. Policy makers from Asia to South America say the
quantitative easing, as the Fed policy is termed, could depress
the dollar and spark capital flight to emerging markets.  The Philippine benchmark rate is at the lowest level since
central bank data started in 1990. The central bank has said it
expects price gains to be within its targets for this year and
next.  Malaysia’s central bank last week left borrowing costs
unchanged for a second meeting, and pledged “greater
vigilance” against potential risks posed by capital inflows.
Thailand last month refrained from a third straight increase.  Faster Philippine growth, which quickened to 7.9 percent in
the second quarter, is attracting investors to the nation’s
assets, driving the  benchmark stock index  to a record this month.  SM Investments Corp. last week raised its 2010 profit
forecast and unveiled a plan to spend 50 billion pesos for
expansion next year. Coca-Cola Co. in September said it would
boost investments in the Philippines by $1 billion over five
years to expand its production and distribution, as well as
develop new products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karl Lester M. Yap  in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  