-- Pimco’s Gross Cuts Government Debt, Adds Mortgages in October
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-11-16T05:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/pimco-cut-government-related-holdings-last-month-purchased-more-mortgages.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at  Pacific Investment Management Co. , reduced
 holdings  of government-related debt to the lowest level since
July 2009 and added mortgage-related assets in October.  The $256 billion Total Return Fund’s investment in
government-related securities fell to 28 percent of assets from
33 percent the previous month, according to data published
yesterday on the  website  of the the Newport Beach, California
company. The fund boosted mortgages assets to 39 percent, the
highest level since July 2009, from 28 percent. Pimco doesn’t
comment directly on monthly changes in its portfolio holdings.  Gross, who reduced holdings of government debt for a fourth
month, said in October that asset purchases by the Federal
Reserve will probably signify the end of the 30-year rally in
bonds. Treasuries completed their steepest two-day decline since
January 2009 yesterday after a group of economists and former
government officials warned the central bank’s plan to snap up
$600 billion of government debt through June will lead to higher
prices in the economy.  “The planned asset purchases risk  currency  debasement and
inflation, and we do not think they will achieve the Fed’s
objective of promoting employment,” the group wrote in a note
to be published this week in the Wall Street Journal and the New
York Times.  John Taylor, the Stanford University professor who created
a monetary-policy formula used by the Fed, is among the group of
23 who signed the open letter to central bank Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke . The Fed is scheduled to buy Treasuries every day this
week under the program.  ‘Check Writing’  Bonds have limited room to gain, according to Gross.  “Check writing in the trillions is not a bondholder’s
friend,” Gross wrote in a monthly investment outlook on Pimco’s
website on Oct. 27. “It is in fact inflationary, and, if truth
be told, somewhat of a Ponzi scheme. It raises bond prices to
create the illusion of high annual returns, but ultimately it
reaches a dead end where those prices can no longer go up.”  Yields  on 10-year notes increased 31 basis points over the
previous two trading days.  Treasuries have dropped 1.4 percent in November, extending
a 0.2 percent slide in October, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data. Government securities haven’t dropped for
two straight months since they fell in April, May and June of
2009, when signs of economic improvement sapped demand for the
relative safety of U.S. debt.  Ten-year rates declined five basis points today to 2.91
percent as of 2:24 p.m. in Tokyo, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The price of the 2.625 percent security due in
November 2020 rose 13/32, or $4.06 per $1,000 face amount, to 97
1/2.  Inflation Prospects  The  difference  between yields on U.S. 10-year notes and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the
securities, has widened to 2.09 percentage points from this
year’s low of 1.47 percentage points in August. The latest
figure matches the five-year average.  Pimco’s U.S. government-related debt category can include
conventional and inflation-linked Treasuries, agency debt,
interest-rate derivatives, Treasury futures and options and bank
debt backed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., according to
the company’s website.  Under what Pimco calls the “new normal,” investors should
expect lower-than-average historical returns with heightened
regulation, lower consumption, slower growth and a shrinking
global role for the U.S. economy. Adapting to that outlook
change, Pimco began offering equity funds in April.  Cash Falls  The Total Return Fund’s high-yield holdings rose by 1
percentage point to 5 percent in October, and non-U.S. developed
debt increased 1 percentage point to 7 percent. Pimco reduced
its net cash-and-equivalent position to negative 11 percent from
negative 3 percent. It can have a so-called negative position by
using derivatives, futures or by shorting.  Derivatives are financial obligations whose value is
derived from an underlying asset such as debt, stocks or
commodities. Futures are agreements to buy or sell assets at a
later specific price and date.  Shorting is borrowing and selling an asset in anticipation
of making a profit by buying it back after its price has fallen.  The fund  has returned 10.2 percent in the past year,
beating 72 percent of its peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It lost 0.7 percent over the past month. Pimco, a
unit of the Munich-based insurer Allianz SE, managed $1.236
trillion of assets as of September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  