-- Polish Central Bank `Hawk' Sees No Need to Boost Interest Rates This Month
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2010-11-16T10:53:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/polish-central-bank-hawk-sees-no-need-to-boost-interest-rates-this-month.html
Poland’s central bank will probably
keep its benchmark interest rate at a record low next week after
policy maker  Andrzej Bratkowski , who voted for a 50 basis-point
rate increase in August, said he doesn’t favor tightening now.  Bratkowski, who had called for a preemptive increase in
official borrowing costs since early this year, told TVN CNBC
television in an  interview  broadcast late yesterday that it’s
“too late for such a move now” and that there’s no reason to
hurry a rate increase that could strengthen the zloty and stall
Poland’s economic rebound before private investment recovers.  “The hawk has folded his wings,”  Michal Dybula , chief
economist at BNP Paribas in Warsaw, said by phone. “These
comments from the Monetary Policy Council’s key policy hawk, as
Bratkowski has always been considered, clearly reduce the
chances for a rate increase this month.”  The yield on bonds maturing in October 2012 dropped 3 basis
points to 4.79 percent as of 11:28 a.m. in Warsaw. One-year
interest-rate swaps, which investors use to protect themselves
against the risk of interest-rate changes, fell 8 basis points
to 4.39 percent, the lowest since Nov. 1. The zloty depreciated
0.2 percent to 3.9340 per euro.  Bratkowski’s remarks were almost identical to those made
yesterday by policy maker  Andrzej Kazmierczak , who said rates
should rise “only if inflation grows dramatically, and nothing
like that is happening.”  Poland’s  annual inflation rate  rose to an eight-month high
of 2.8 percent in October from 2.5 percent in September, the
Central Statistical Office reported yesterday. Bratkowski said
the increase in consumer prices was a “one-time” occurrence
driven mainly by global food and energy prices. There’s no need
to “rush” rate moves until there’s evidence domestic demand is
stoking inflationary pressure, he said.  “Economic growth remains rather moderate and there hasn’t
been a sudden acceleration, so the situation isn’t dramatic,”
Bratkowski said. “We’re not yet in a position where we have to
act right away.”  Bratkowski said he’d “personally favor” waiting on a rate
increase in order to monitor the zloty, whose recent
strengthening may act to curb inflation.  “There’s a certain risk that if we start the tightening
cycle quickly, it will accelerate the strengthening of the
zloty. This could be rather dangerous for an economy that is
just starting to gain momentum,” he said.  Kazmierczak also said yesterday the October inflation
increase isn’t “dramatic” since core inflation probably stayed
unchanged at 1.2 percent for a fourth month. He added that the
council should act cautiously on any rate decision.  The Monetary Policy Council holds its next rate meeting
Nov. 22-23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dorota Bartyzel  in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  