-- Britain's Prince William Will Marry Kate Middleton Next Year
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-11-16T20:23:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/prince-william-engaged-to-marry-kate-middleton-in-spring-or-summer-2011.html
Britain’s royal family announced the
engagement of  Prince William  to  Kate Middleton , putting her in
line to become the first  commoner  to be queen in modern times.  William, the grandson of  Queen Elizabeth II  and son of the
late  Diana, Princess of Wales , will marry Middleton “in the
spring or summer of 2011 in London,” William’s father,  Prince Charles , said in a statement issued by  his office  in London. The
announcement ends years of speculation about whether the second
in line to the throne would propose to his girlfriend.  In a pooled television interview this evening, William said
he took so long to ask her to marry him because he wanted to
make sure Kate was fully aware of what it meant to join the
royal family.  “We’ve talked about today for a while,” William said. “I
wanted to give her a chance to back out if she wanted to.”  Royal consorts have traditionally come from the ranks of
Britain’s aristocracy or other European royal houses. Middleton,
the daughter of self-made millionaires, met the prince when they
were students at  St. Andrews University  in Scotland, and they’ve
been dating since 2003. Both are 28 years old.  ‘Daunting Prospect’  “It’s quite a daunting prospect but hopefully I’ll take it
in my stride,” Kate said earlier today, as they posed for the
cameras in London, showing off the engagement ring William gave
her, which was his mother’s. “He has been very, very supportive
of me in good times and also through the bad times and that’s
very special to me.”  “Kate is a formidable character; she’s an intelligent,
modern, middle-class girl who is not easily fazed,” Robert
Jobson, author of the book “William’s Princess,” said in an
interview. “She has captured the heart of a prince, which is a
difficult thing to do, and in doing so has shown she is
dignified. The royal family is a difficult thing to come into if
you are middle class.”  William and Kate got engaged three weeks ago during a
holiday in Kenya, they said in the TV interview. William said
he’d been carrying the ring -- a sapphire surrounded by diamonds
-- around in his rucksack for about three weeks before the
proposal.  “It’s my mother’s engagement ring so I thought it was
quite nice because obviously she’s not going to be around to
share any of the fun and excitement of it all,” William said.
“This was my way of keeping her close to it all.”  ‘True Romantic’  “It was very romantic,” Kate said. “There’s a true
romantic in there.”  Once they’re married, the couple will live in north Wales,
where William will continue to serve with the Royal Air Force as
a helicopter pilot.  Speculation about a royal wedding has grown since the pair
rekindled their relationship after a brief split in April 2007.
By July the same year, they were reunited, with Middleton
accompanying William at a memorial concert for Diana at London’s
Wembley Stadium. In October 2007, she was photographed with
William’s father deer-stalking in Scotland.  “They’ve been practicing long enough,” Charles told
reporters in Dorset today. He said he was “obviously
thrilled.”  William -- blond, blue-eyed and 6 feet 3 inches (1.91
meters) tall -- is a flight lieutenant in the Royal Air Force.
With a fortune of 28 million pounds ($45 million), according to
the Sunday Times Rich List, he was one of the world’s most
eligible bachelors.  Party Pieces  Kate -- baptized Catherine Elizabeth -- is the eldest child
of Michael and Carole Middleton, who own  Party Pieces , a website
supplying party accessories. Carole once worked as an airline
cabin-crew member. After leaving university, Kate worked as a
junior buyer for the women’s fashion chain Jigsaw and later took
photographs for her parents’ website.  By contrast, William’s mother Diana was a member of the
 aristocratic Spencer family . The first Lord Spencer was ennobled
by King James I at the start of the 17th century. Other British-
born royal consorts in recent centuries, such as Queen Elizabeth
II’s mother, who married the future George VI, had parents who
were members of the nobility.  “It’s great to have a piece of unadulterated good news
that everyone can celebrate,” Prime Minister  David Cameron  told
reporters outside his official residence at 10 Downing Street.  ‘National Celebration’  Cameron said he spoke to Prince William today. “He was
obviously extremely excited about the news and thrilled about
what lies in store,” Cameron said. “I said the government
stood ready to do anything we could to help make sure that what
I know will be a great day of national celebration will be a
great success.”  Cameron said ministers cheered and banged the table when he
told them the news during this morning’s Cabinet meeting.
There’s been no decision on whether the wedding day will be a
public holiday, the prime minister’s spokesman,  Steve Field ,
told reporters in London.  The leader of the opposition Labour Party,  Ed Miliband ,
said he was “delighted for Prince William and Kate Middleton”
and that “the whole country will be wishing them every
happiness.”  Miliband and his partner Justine, who gave birth to their
second son on Nov. 7, are unmarried.  “I’m so disappointed” that Prince William is getting
married, French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  joked to
reporters in London as she arrived to speak at the Financial
Times’s “Women at the Top” conference.  ‘Three of Us’  Charles married Diana in London’s St. Paul’s Cathedral in
July 1981. William was born in June 1982 and his brother Harry
in September 1984. In December 1992, Prime Minister  John Major 
announced that the couple would be separating and the marriage
was dissolved in 1996.  Diana said that Charles had kept up a relationship with
 Camilla Parker Bowles  during the marriage, telling  BBC
television’s “Panorama” program  in 1995 that “there were
three of us in this marriage, so it was a bit crowded” when she
was asked if the relationship had been a factor in the split.
Diana died in a car crash in Paris in 1997 and Prince Charles
married Parker Bowles in 2005.  Of the queen’s four children, only  Prince Edward , who
married  Sophie Rhys-Jones  in 1999, has not divorced.  Prince Andrew ’s 1986 marriage to  Sarah Ferguson  ended
in 1996 and  Princess Anne ’s to Mark Phillips in 1973 was
dissolved in 1992. Princess Anne married  Tim Laurence  the same
year. Andrew, Edward and Anne are behind William and Harry in
the line of succession.  “I think it’s absolutely thrilling,” Sophie, now known as
the Countess of Wessex, told reporters today when asked about
the engagement. “Couldn’t be more excited.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 