-- Industrial Production in U.S. Probably Increased in October
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-11-16T05:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/production-probably-rose-in-october-as-factories-sustained-u-s-recovery.html
Industrial production probably rose
in October, rebounding from the first decrease in more than a
year and signaling manufacturing continues to support the U.S.
economic recovery, economists said before a report today.  Output at factories, mines and utilities increased 0.3
percent after a 0.2 percent drop in September, the first decline
since the recession ended in June 2009, according to the median
forecast of 78 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Other data 
may show wholesale prices jumped last month on rising fuel
costs, while builders turned less pessimistic in November.  Gains in  exports  and business investment may keep assembly
lines churning, just as the initial spark from the need to
rebuild inventories wanes. The increases in global demand that
benefitted companies like  General Electric Co . and helped lift
the economy gave American consumers time to repair finances and
resume spending, leading to a more balanced recovery.  “We’re slowly gaining momentum,” said  Aaron Smith , a
senior economist at Moody’s Analytics in West Chester,
Pennsylvania. “The deceleration for manufacturing probably
really has run its course. Consumers are slowly ramping up.”  The Federal Reserve’s production report is scheduled for
9:15 a.m. in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from no
change to an increase of 0.7 percent.  Producer prices rose 0.8 percent in October, the biggest
advance since March, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed before a Labor Department release at 8:30
a.m. Core prices, which exclude food and fuel, may have climbed
0.1 percent for a third month.  Pessimism Abates  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
 confidence index  climbed to 17 this month from 16 in October,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg  survey . The
figures are slated for 10 a.m. and readings less than 50 mean
more respondents said conditions are poor than good.  Previous reports pointed to an October rebound in
manufacturing, which makes up 11 percent of the U.S. economy.  The Institute for Supply Management’s  factory gauge  rose in
October to the highest level in five months, reflecting
acceleration in orders and production. Factories also boosted
the workweek by 0.2 percent last month, enough to overcome a
7,000 drop in payrolls, figures from the Labor Department
showed.  The first of this month’s regional factory reports raised
the risk that the rebound will prove to be short-lived.
Manufacturing in the region covered by the Fed Bank of New York
unexpectedly  contracted  in November for the first time in more
than a year, the branch of the central bank said yesterday.  Fed Concerns  Some Fed policy makers are concerned economic growth is not
strong enough to reduce an unemployment rate close to 10
percent. At the same time, inflation remains below the Fed’s
longer-term projections. The central bank this month announced a
program to buy an additional $600 billion in Treasury securities
in a bid to keep borrowing costs low and spur growth.  Shares rallied last month in anticipation of the Fed’s
action and as the economy showed signs of strengthening. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 index rose 3.7 percent in October after an
8.8 percent gain the prior month, the best back-to-back
performance in more than a year. The S&P Supercomposite
Machinery Index rose 3.2 percent last month and 17 percent in
September, the biggest one-month gain since April 2009.  Foreign sales remain a bright spot.  Exports  in September
rose to the highest level in two years, according to Commerce
Department data released Nov. 10.  General Electric Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt 
last week appointed Vice Chairman  John Rice  to accelerate a push
to bolster exports and expand partnerships in countries like
China and India that are modernizing infrastructure to foster
faster economic growth.  Investment Pickup  “The growth in the next decade or decades that’s going to
take place will be quite robust in places like China and
India,” Immelt said Nov. 9 in Beijing. GE is based in
Fairfield, Connecticut.  Some businesses are also responding to increased exports
and to a pickup in U.S. demand by replacing aging equipment and
bringing more parts of their plants online.  Rockwell Automation Inc. , the maker of factory software,
said it sees interest rising in large-scale plant projects for
full-production lines in developed markets, a sign that those
economies may be picking up steam.  “These are projects that are significant expansion in
production capacity or new lines,” Chief Executive Officer
 Keith Nosbusch  said in an interview last week. “These would be
larger capital spending investments,” which means those markets
have a more positive outlook on their future.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  