-- India's Property Developers to Beat Sensex Index's Gain, CLSA Analyst Says
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2010-11-16T09:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/property-stocks-may-outperform-india-sensex-on-property-prices-clsa-says.html
India’s real estate stocks may
outperform the benchmark  Sensitive Index  over the next six to
eight months as higher property prices boost profit margins at
developers, CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets said.  Shares of Indian developers may climb 20 percent in the
next 12 months,  Mahesh Nandurkar , a real-estate analyst at CLSA,
said in a phone interview from Gurgaon, near New Delhi, today.
The brokerage was ranked second for Indian stocks research by
Institutional Investor magazine.  Property prices have climbed between 30 percent and 70
percent across India, with some markets having crossed their
2007 peaks, Nandurkar said. Real estate values in some markets
are expected gain further, he said, helping to reverse the 13
percent drop in the  BSE Realty Index  this year. The Sensex has
advanced 14 percent in 2010.  “We are bullish on property stocks as we expect margin
expansion to play out going forward,” Mumbai-based Nandurkar
said. “Higher property prices will flow through into the profit
and loss accounts at developers.”  CLSA rates Indian property stocks “overweight” even after
it reduced earnings estimates of developers by between 6 percent
and 8 percent. The cut came after  DLF Ltd.  and  Unitech Ltd. , the
nation’s two largest developers, posted quarterly profits in the
past week that missed analysts’ estimates.  More IPOs  The expected gains in property stocks may prompt more share
sales among real estate companies, Nandurkar said. Developers
may raise about 15 percent to 20 percent of the $13 billion of
planned share sales by Indian companies, he said.  Share sales by Morgan Stanley-backed  Oberoi Realty Ltd.  and
 Prestige Estates Projects Ltd ., the Indian developer in a mall
venture with CapitaMalls Asia Ltd., may prompt $3 billion in
fundraising among real estate companies, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Raheja Universal Ltd.  and Emaar MGF Land
Ltd. are among at least 11 builders waiting to tap the market,
according to Bloomberg data.  “Property will clearly be one of the long-term stories in
India given the trend on urbanization; we will see developers
growing in size and scale,” Nandurkar said from the CLSA India
investor conference in Gurgaon, which attracted 200 investors,
almost all from overseas. The attendance is 40 percent higher
than last year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pooja Thakur  in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  