-- Qantas Plane Turns Back After Bird Strike One Day After Returning on Fault
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-11-17T05:55:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/qantas-airways-says-flight-returned-to-johannesburg-following-bird-strike.html
A  Qantas Airways Ltd.  plane bound
for Sydney returned to Johannesburg after striking birds, the
Australian carrier’s fifth report of a turned-around flight in
the past two weeks.  The  Boeing Co. 747  with 171 passengers landed at 7:20 p.m.
Johannesburg time on Nov. 16, about 80 minutes after takeoff,
Thomas Woodward, a spokesman for the Sydney-based carrier, said
by phone today. The same aircraft had to turn back a day earlier
during a flight from Sydney to Buenos Aires, he said.  Qantas, which has never had a fatal jet accident, has
separately deployed spare capacity and shuffled its fleet to
maintain long-haul operations affected by the grounding of its
six Airbus SAS A380s after a mid-air engine explosion earlier
this month.  The Johannesburg-Sydney flight bird strike caused power to
drop in the number 2 engine, Woodward said. Passengers will be
put up in hotels and will probably be on alternative flights
within about 24 hours, while parts needed to repair the damaged
powerplant will be sent from Australia, he said.  Qantas  fell 2.2 percent to A$2.67 at the 4:10 p.m. close of
trading in Sydney. The stock has declined 7 percent since Nov.
3,  compared  with a 2.1 percent drop by the benchmark S&P/ASX 200
index.  Qantas, Australia’s biggest airline, is keeping its A380
fleet grounded for a 14th day for inspections and powerplant
replacements following the Nov. 4 mid-flight explosion of a
 Rolls-Royce Group Plc  engine.  Engine faults that caused Qantas to turn back two other
flights since that blowup were unrelated, the airline has said.
An electrical glitch caused the Buenos Aires-bound flight to be
turned back earlier this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  