-- Qualcomm Sees Buoyant Smartphone Demand, Rising Prices
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2010-11-16T21:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/qualcomm-expects-buoyant-demand-for-smartphones-rising-prices.html
Qualcomm Inc. , the biggest maker of
mobile-phone chips, expects average phone prices to rise as
consumers in emerging markets step up buying of handsets that
allow fast-Web access, Chief Executive Officer  Paul Jacobs  said.  “The whole price curve is going to end up moving up,”
Jacobs said in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New
York. “The growth looks good. The mobile industry seems to be
doing OK.”  Qualcomm, which gets most of its profit from licensing
mobile-phone technology, stands to gain as rising demand for
smartphones lifts the price of devices, Jacobs said. His remarks
counter concerns voiced by analysts including  Cody Acree , of
Williams Financial Group, that the chipmaker’s margins would get
squeezed by a shift to lower-priced phones.  Jacobs, 48, said prices will be buoyed by smartphone sales
in countries including India and China, as well as demand in
more developed economies.  Qualcomm, based in San Diego, fell 49 cents to $46.38 at 4
p.m. New York time in  Nasdaq Stock Market  trading. The  shares 
are little changed this year, lagging behind other chipmakers
including Intel Corp., as investors fret that Qualcomm’s
profitability is under pressure.  “I would look for those price concerns to raise themselves
again,” said Acree, who has a “hold”  rating  on Qualcomm stock.  Average Prices  Jacobs is in New York ahead of the company’s annual analyst
day tomorrow. The company owns rights to license code division
multiple access, or CDMA, the fundamental radio technology used
in so-called 3G phones and networks.  The average price of a phone using Qualcomm’s technology
will probably be about $192 this quarter, the company said this
month. That’s up from about $182 in the previous period.  Consumer purchases of smartphones in developed markets are
rising as the global economy rebounds, Jacobs said. Less-
expensive data plans from service providers may also perk up
sales, he said. In India and other developing economies, new
networks offering faster Internet access are also fueling sales
of more expensive phone models, he said.  Qualcomm can keep delivering “double-digit” sales growth as
phone connections make their way into new devices including
tablet computers, cars and even medical equipment, Jacobs said.  Revenue  will grow 13 to 18 percent in its current fiscal
year, Qualcomm has said. That would be more than double the 6
percent increase last year to $11 billion.  Under Jacobs, who took over as CEO from his father in 2005,
Qualcomm has tried to lessen its dependence on mobile phone
chips. One of its efforts, the MediaFLO mobile-television
service, hasn’t met Qualcomm’s targets. The company is now
considering options that include selling it off, forming a joint
venture or closing it down, Jacobs said.  “It’s conceivable if we get a good offer we sell the
spectrum and shut down the business,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  