-- Rand to Slump as Pattern Signals Reverse, Nedbank Says: Technical Analysis
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-11-16T10:37:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/rand-to-slump-as-pattern-signals-reserve-nedbank-says-technical-analysis.html
The rand may weaken 3 percent by the
end of next week as a W-pattern signals the likelihood of a
short-term reversal in the currency that has rallied 35 percent
since the start of last year, according to Nedbank Group Ltd.  South Africa’s currency may decline to 7.20 per dollar by
Nov. 26 based on technical charts used by traders to predict
foreign-exchange movements,  Ian Cruickshanks , head of research
at Nedbank’s treasury in Johannesburg, said by telephone. A
breach of the psychological resistance level of 7 per dollar,
would likely prompt a decline to 7.06 to the U.S. currency, the
weakest close in a so-called W-pattern formed in charts showing
the rand’s movements against the dollar since the start of
October, said Cruickshanks.  “The rand looks suspiciously like it’s formed a W-pattern
against the dollar, which is often a signal that a reversal in
trend is about to start,” said Cruickshanks. “A close weaker
than 7.06 would convert the ceiling of the W-pattern into a
floor for a new weakening trend.”  The rand breached 7 per dollar for a third straight session
today even after failing to close worse than that exchange rate,
which is regarded by traders as a key resistance level, for each
of the past two days. The currency closed at 7.0680 on Oct. 27,
the weakest close since the start of last month and the lowest
level in the so-called W-pattern.  South Africa’s currency may also depreciate on expectations
the central bank will this week lower its  main interest rate  to
reduce the currency’s yield allure and as Europe’s debt crisis
curbs demand for higher-yield assets, according to Cruickshanks.  “As Europe comes under pressure because of its debt
problems, so risk appetite softens,” said Cruickshanks. “The
market is also heavily positioned for a rate cut.”  Bailout  Ireland is under pressure to accept a bailout package from
the European Union and International Monetary Fund to restore
the confidence of investors who dumped its bonds on concern a
government-funded rescue of its banking sector may bankrupt the
nation. The Pretoria-based Reserve Bank is also expected to
reduce its 6 percent benchmark rate by 50 basis points when it
announces its next decision on Nov. 18, according to the  median
estimate  in a Bloomberg survey.  The rand slid as much as 1 percent to 7.0146 per dollar
before trading at 7.0027 by 12:07 p.m. in Johannesburg, from a
previous close of 6.9474.  “We still see the bias lying in rand weakness ahead of the
monetary policy committee’s repo-rate decision,” Standard Bank
Group Ltd. analysts led by  Michael Keenan  in Johannesburg, wrote
in a client note today.  Rally  The rand has surged to best performer among emerging
markets since the start of last year along with Brazil’s real as
near-zero interest rates in developed nations encouraged
investors to borrow cheaply and invest in higher-yielding
markets. The currency’s rally has been blamed for causing
 economic growth  to slow to 3.2 percent in the second quarter,
from 4.6 percent in the first three months of the year, even as
it helped slow inflation by reducing the cost of fuel and other
imports.  Consumer-price growth  eased to a five five-year low of 3.2
percent in September, the ninth straight monthly decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  