-- Rand at Weakest in Two Weeks Against Dollar on Commodities, Europe Crisis
-- B y   A n a   M o n t e i r o
-- 2010-11-16T14:03:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/rand-at-weakest-in-two-weeks-against-dollar-on-commodities-europe-crisis.html
The rand depreciated to the lowest
in two weeks against the dollar as commodities prices fell,
European Central Bank and Irish officials met to solve a debt
crisis.  The currency of Africa’s biggest economy weakened for the
sixth time in seven days, retreating as much as 1.3 percent to
7.0347 and trading 0.9 percent weaker at 7.0075 by 3:26 p.m. in
Johannesburg from a previous close of 6.9474.  Copper, lead, nickel, tin and zinc prices retreated in
London on concern that China, the world’s biggest consumer of
the metal, may take further steps to cool economic growth,
damping demand for commodities. Gold, which with platinum
accounts for more about a fifth of the South Africa’s exports,
declined before a report that economists said will show U.S.
industrial demand expanded, supporting the dollar and curbing
bullion demand.  Irish Prime Minister Brian Cowen said he would discuss aid
for banks at a meeting of European finance ministers today to
prevent a sovereign debt crisis from destabilizing the euro. The
dollar gained versus 13 of its 16 major counterparts on signs of
recovery in the U.S.  “The latest data shows that speculators are rapidly
unwinding short dollar positions and yet still have a very long
way to go as U.S. data improves and problems in Portugal,
Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain mount,” John Cairns and Nema
Ramkhelawan, analysts at Johannesburg-based Rand Merchant Bank,
wrote in an e-mailed note today.  Bonds, FRAs  China is under “pressure” from capital inflows, central-
bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said as a state newspaper reported
that price controls may be imposed to cool the fastest inflation
in two years. The country’s benchmark money-market rate
yesterday rose to a one-week high.  Bonds snapped two days of declines, with the benchmark 13.5
percent security due September 2015 adding 11 cents to 126.11
rand. The yield declined 3 basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 7.02 percent.  Forward-rate agreements , or FRAs, showed money-market
investors raised bets the South African Reserve Bank will lower
its 6 percent main interest rate when it announces its next
decision this week on Nov. 18. The cost of three-month contracts
for cash due in one month fell 3 basis points to 5.695 percent.  The so-called 1x4 FRA contract fell to 5.69 percent on Nov.
4, the lowest since the central bank first introduced the
repurchase rate in 1999.  To contact the reporter on the story:
Ana Monteiro in Johannesburg at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 