-- Rating Upgrades Trounce BRIC Peers as Vale, JBS Debt Raised: Brazil Credit
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o   a n d   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2010-11-16T11:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/rating-upgrades-top-downgrades-by-most-since-2007-brazil-credit.html
Brazilian companies are receiving
the most credit-rating increases since 2007 as the fastest
economic expansion in two decades bolsters sales and profits.  Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings Ltd. raised the ratings and outlooks of Brazilian
companies 74 times this year while lowering them in 22
instances, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. There were
more than three upgrades for every downgrade, the highest ratio
among the so-called BRIC countries that include Russia, India
and China.  The rating advances are helping push  yields  to a record low
and driving Brazilian debt sales to an all-time high this year.
 Vale SA , the world’s largest iron-ore producer, sold $1.75
billion of bonds on Sept. 8, two months after Fitch raised the
company’s rating one level to BBB+.  JBS SA , the largest meat-
processing company, issued $700 million of debt on July 22, a
week after S&P upgraded it two levels to BB.  “It’s a positive economic cycle that’s supporting better
results,”  Jansen Moura , a corporate bond analyst with BCP
Securities in Rio de Janeiro, said in a telephone interview.
“There’s still a positive period ahead for Brazilian
companies.”  Brazilian corporate ratings are following the government’s
ranking. In the past two years, S&P and Fitch raised the
country’s debt to BBB-, the lowest investment-grade rating,
while Moody’s boosted it to an equivalent Baa3.  In June, Fitch lifted its outlook to positive, citing the
country’s growth potential and “prudent economic policies.”
The country’s credit rating may climb if President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  exercises “fiscal restraint” after taking office in
January, Fitch said in a Nov. 4 report.  Retail Sales  Corporate yields in Brazil  plunged  to a record low of 5.64
percent on Nov. 4, falling 121 basis points since Feb. 11,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s CEMBI index.  Brazil’s  gross domestic product  will expand 7.6 percent
this year after shrinking 0.2 percent in 2009, according to the
median estimate in a Nov. 5 central bank survey of about 100
economists.  Retail sales  in Brazil climbed for the fifth straight month
in September, buoyed by record low unemployment and loan growth.
New vehicle sales rose 2.9 percent last month from a year
earlier, the country’s car dealership federation, Fenabrave,
said Nov. 1.  Brazilian companies have sold a record $36.3 billion of
bonds this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as
record-low interest rates in the U.S., Europe and Japan have
raised the appetite for corporate debt in Latin America’s
biggest economy.  Panamericano Probe  S&P, based in New York, upgraded 25 companies in Brazil
this year, while Moody’s raised 22 ratings and Fitch 27,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 3.4-to-1 ratio of
upgrades to downgrades beats the 1.5 ratio in China, 2.2 in
India and 2.7 in Russia. In Mexico, Latin America’s second-
biggest economy, more companies have had their credit ratings
lowered than raised this year.  A probe into accounting irregularities at Sao Paulo-based
 Banco Panamericano SA  may slow Brazilian bank bond sales as
investor scrutiny increases and raises borrowing costs for
lenders,  Bevan Rosenbloom , an analyst with RBS Securities Inc.
in Stamford, Connecticut, said in a telephone interview.  Itau, Bradesco  “The Panamericano story will very likely limit issuance in
Brazil,” Rosenbloom said. The company “has made people realize
that disclosure and accounting standards could be sub-par for
these companies and that issuance came faster than the companies
might have been ready for.”  Panamericano bonds due in 2020 have slumped 14.73 cents to
92.65 cents on the dollar since the company said Nov. 9 that its
controlling shareholder, Grupo Silvio Santos, would finance a
2.5 billion real ($1.44 billion) bailout by borrowing from the
country’s deposit insurance fund. The yield rose 38 basis
points, or 0.38 percentage point, yesterday to 9.71 percent,
extending its climb since Nov. 9 to 231 basis points.  Itau Unibanco Holding SA  and  Banco Bradesco SA , both based
in Sao Paulo, plan to sell five-year international debt
denominated in reais as soon as this week, according to people
familiar with the offering, who declined to be identified
because the terms aren’t set. Itau, Brazil’s biggest bank by
market value, is rated BBB by Fitch and Bradesco, the country’s
second-largest lender by assets, has a BBB rating by S&P.  Odebrecht Buyback  The extra yield investors demand to hold Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. securities was unchanged
at 171 basis points as of 6:28 a.m. New York time, according to
JPMorgan. The gap has dropped 35 basis points over the past two
months.  Yields on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contract due in
January 2012 rose four basis points to 11.56 percent. The real
declined 0.6 percent to 1.7317 per dollar. The Brazilian market
was closed yesterday for a national holiday.  The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps was unchanged at 104
basis points, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Falling yields have led Brazilian companies to call their
bonds.  Odebrecht  SA, a construction company in Salvador, Bahia,
said Sept. 2 it plans to buy back $200 million of 9.625 percent
perpetual bonds in December.  Vale, JBS  Yields on Vale’s 4.625 percent bonds due in 2020 dropped 13
basis points to 4.55 percent since their sale on Sept. 8. Yields
on JBS’s 8.25 percent bonds that mature in 2018 fell 89 basis
points since they were issued on July 22.  Fitch raised Vale’s foreign and local debt ratings on June
29 to BBB+ from BBB, citing the Rio de Janeiro-based company’s
acquisition plans and higher fertilizer reserves.  JBS, based in Sao Paulo, had its debt rating boosted to BB
from B+ on July 16 by S&P, which cited the company’s savings
from acquisitions. JBS agreed to purchase a 64 percent stake in
 Pilgrim’s Pride Corp. , a Pittsburg, Texas-based chicken
processer, and Brazilian meatpacker Bertin SA last year.  Credit rating upgrades “are helping debt issuance,” said
 Christopher Buck , a corporate debt analyst with Barclays Plc. in
New York. “Conditions in the capital market have been very
positive both for issuers in terms of absolute yields and just
in terms of additional demand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Camila Russo  in New York at 
 Crusso15@bloomberg.net ;
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  