-- Treasuries Advance as Dudley Seeks to Ease Inflation Concern
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-11-16T22:40:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/treasuries-advance-as-dudley-seeks-to-ease-inflation-concern.html
Treasuries rose, recovering from the
biggest two-day decline in almost two years, as two Federal
Reserve regional bank presidents defended the central bank’s
$600 billion asset purchase program after criticism from
economists and politicians saying the program is inflationary.  Benchmark 10-year yields jumped 31 basis points during the
previous two trading days, the most since a back-to-back surge
of 33 basis points in January 2009. Boston’s  Eric Rosengren  said
he expects the central bank to buy the entire amount in a bid to
reduce unemployment.  James Bullard  of the St. Louis said the Fed
would buy less than planned under quantitative easing only after
a big improvement in the economy. The central bank bought $5.4
billion of Treasuries.  “We’ve seen people try to jump to the conclusion that the
market is against QE2,” said  John Briggs , a U.S. government
bond strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc’s RBS Securities
unit in Stamford, Connecticut, one of 18 primary dealers that
trade with the Fed. “It’s a counterbalance to some of the
political-related comments we’ve been seeing. The success of QE2
will be judged over the course of three to six months in asset
prices and growth and inflation, not in a week’s move.”  Yields  on 10-year notes fell 12 basis points to 2.84
percent as of 5:10 p.m. in New York, according to BGCantor
Market Data. The 2.625 percent security due in November 2020
advanced 1, or $10 per $1,000 face amount, to 98 4/32.  Volatile Trade  Thirty-year notes yields fell 15 basis points to 4.27
percent, after touching 4.25 percent, the sharpest drop since
May 6. Two-year note yields declined four basis points to 0.5
percent.  Volatility in the Treasury market has picked up. Merrill
Lynch & Co.’s MOVE index, which measure price swings in
Treasuries based on prices of over-the-counter options maturing
in two to 30 years, rose to 103.9 yesterday, the highest since
Sept. 13  “It’s protection of profits,” RBS Securities’ Briggs
said. “It’s risk aversion at year-end. Everybody was long
Treasuries for this position, so when the market failed to move
to lower yields on the announcement, we started seeing profit-
talking.”  Bullard joined a chorus of Fed governors who have expressed
their views on the second round of Fed purchases. He said that
the central bank will review bond buying as economic data come
in and that the first order of business is avoiding deflation,
in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays Advantage,”
with  Kathleen Hays .  Yield Analysis  An increase in 10-year Treasury yields during the past two
weeks reflects stronger economic data, and the Fed’s
unconventional monetary policy seems to be working, Bullard
said.  Another Fed governor expressed views on the program.  “Given my forecast, I fully anticipate we will purchase the
entire amount,” Rosengren said today in an interview with
Bloomberg News. “Certainly if the economy were to weaken
substantially and further disinflation were to occur, we should
take more action,” and officials could also make
“adjustments” if the economy turned out to be much stronger
than expected, he said.  Fed Vice Chairman Janet Yellen earlier told the Wall Street
Journal the central bank isn’t trying to weaken the dollar or
push the inflation rate higher than 2 percent.  Dudley’s Case  New York Fed President  William Dudley  said the central
bank’s bond purchases won’t cause an inflation problem. Dudley
was responding to criticism that the Fed’s plan to add $600
billion to the economy by buying Treasuries will lead to higher
prices for consumers.  “People do not understand clearly” that “we can have an
enlarged  balance sheet  and not have a long-term inflation
problem,” he said in an interview with CNBC.  The central bank today bought $5.4 billion of Treasuries
maturing from July 2012 to May 2013, according to its  website .  Global demand for U.S. stocks, bonds and other financial
assets fell in September from a month earlier, the Treasury
Department reported. Net buying of long-term equities, notes and
bonds totaled $81.0 billion during the month compared with net
buying of $128.7 billion in August, according to data issued
today in Washington.  The producer price index climbed 0.4 percent in October
from the prior month, Labor Department figures showed today in
Washington. Economists projected a 0.8 percent rise, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The so-called
core measure, which excludes volatile food and energy costs,
decreased 0.6 percent, the most since July 2006.  “The PPI is telling you there’s very little inflation in
the system,” said  Thomas L. di Galoma , head of U.S. rates
trading at Guggenheim Capital Markets LLC, a New-York based
brokerage for institutional investors. “That’s the underlying
theme and that’s why the Fed is commencing this QE2 program.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net 
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  