-- Regions Financial Plunges After Risk Managers Depart
-- B y   N i s h a d   M a j m u d a r
-- 2010-11-16T18:59:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/regions-plunges-after-departure-of-managers-including-risk-officer-wells.html
Regions Financial Corp. , the Alabama
bank that hasn’t posted an annual profit since 2007, fell to the
lowest in New York trading since January after three executives
overseeing risk and souring assets left.  Regions slumped 49 cents, or 7.9 percent, to $5.71 at 1:38
p.m. after disclosing late yesterday the departures of Chief
Risk Officer  Bill Wells  and the heads of credit risk and
problem-asset management. The moves weren’t prompted by
additional reserves or charge-offs for bad loans, the company
said. The announcement is spurring investor concern that losses
on loans may mount, said  Christopher Gamaitoni , an analyst at
Compass Point Research & Trading LLC in Washington.  The group of departures “certainly signifies substantial
risks toward future performance and valuation of their current
assets,” said Gamaitoni in an interview. “If the economy turns
down and credit just doesn’t get any better, there’s a lot of
negative reaction that could happen very quickly,” crimping the
stock’s price, he said.  Since the start of 2009, the Birmingham-based lender has
written off more than $3 billion in loans, mostly tied to
developers, home builders and mortgage borrowers in Georgia and
Florida. In the third quarter, charge-offs for uncollectible
loans jumped to $759 million from $651 million in the second
quarter because of more bad commercial real-estate loans.  ‘Strong’ Team Wanted  Gulf Coast banks were beginning to rebound from hundreds of
millions of dollars of losses on real estate, when BP Plc’s
offshore oil well exploded April 20, unleashing a record spill
that crimped the local economy.  Regions’s stock had climbed 66 percent from the start of
the year until the day of the disaster. After paring the gains,
the stock is up 7.9 percent this year. The third-quarter’s $155
million loss exceeded some analysts’ estimates.  “These departures are not the result of any determination
with regard to additional problem loan migration, loan-loss
reserves or charge-offs,” Chief Executive Officer  Grayson Hall 
said in the statement. “We are committed to having a strong
leadership team in risk management and to continuing to de-risk
our balance sheet.”  Wells resigned, according to the statement. The firm’s
director of credit risk,  Michael Willoughby , retired. The head
of problem-asset management,  Tom Neely , “has left the
company,” it said.  Their responsibilities are being handled on an interim
basis by the bank’s head of credit operations,  Barb Godin , and
the risk analytics chief, John Haley, who will also oversee
areas including regulatory affairs and compliance risk. They
will report to Chief Financial Officer  David Turner  until
Wells’s successor is appointed, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nishad Majmudar  in New York at 
 nmajmudar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 