-- Renaissance Capital CEO Jennings Sees Russian, African IPOs in Hong Kong
-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 2010-11-16T07:51:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/renaissance-ceo-forecasts-at-least-12-russian-african-ipos-in-hong-kong.html
Renaissance Capital Chief Executive
Officer  Stephen Jennings  said there may be at least 12 companies
from the former Soviet Union and Africa seeking to list in Hong
Kong in the next 12 months.  At least two resources companies from Africa and another
from Kazakhstan plan to sell shares in the city in the first
quarter of next year, Jennings said in an interview today. More
Russian companies will follow  United Co. Rusal  and  IRC Ltd.  to
Hong Kong, he said.  “Across our geographies, which are the former Soviet Union
and Africa, we see at least a dozen transactions in the next 12
months,” Jennings told Bloomberg Television.  OAO EuroSibEnergo, the power utility controlled by Russian
billionaire  Oleg Deripaska , is seeking to raise $1.5 billion in
an initial public offering in Hong Kong next month, Deripaska
told reporters in Tokyo on Nov. 14.  Rusal, the world’s biggest aluminum producer, also
controlled by Deripaska, raised $2.2 billion from an IPO in
January. IRC, the iron-ore unit of  Petropavlovsk Plc , Russia’s
third-biggest gold producer, raised $241 million in an initial
sale last month.  As of yesterday, Rusal had fallen 9.2 percent from its IPO
price, while IRC had lost 11 percent from its initial offer
price, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares of the 63 new listings in Hong Kong this year before
today have gained an average 29 percent from their IPO prices,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Companies have raised $48
billion from IPOs in 2010, the highest since Bloomberg began to
track such data in 1999.  Hong Kong may replace London as the top listing venue for
Russian and African companies in coming years, Jennings said.  “Three, four years from now, this will be the primary
listing venue,” he said, “Now we are going through the process
from London to Hong Kong.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in Hong Kong at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  