-- Republican Lawmakers Want to Modify the Fed's Mandate
-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2010-11-16T17:27:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/republicans-say-fed-s-dual-mandate-has-failed-focus-should-be-on-prices.html
Republican lawmakers in the U.S.
House and Senate said they want to compel the Federal Reserve to
focus solely on controlling inflation, upending a congressional
mandate that’s shaped monetary policy for more than 30 years.  U.S. Representative Mike Pence, chairman of the House
Republican Conference, said he plans to introduce a bill today
requiring the Fed to promote price stability while no longer
seeking maximum employment. Senator Bob Corker, a member of the
Senate Banking Committee, backed a single mandate for the Fed,
saying the Fed’s dual roles are “confusing to the market.”  The central bank is currently required by a 1977 amendment
to the Federal Reserve Act to promote stable prices and full
employment. The Fed’s Nov. 3 decision to buy $600 billion of
Treasuries in a bid to reduce unemployment has spawned critics,
including officials in China, Germany, and Brazil, and U.S.
economists such as John Taylor and Michael Boskin.  Corker, who met with Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke yesterday,
said in an interview today that the Fed’s dual role “can create
sort of a bipolar mentality,” and that his proposal would not
prevent the Fed from addressing any threat of deflation or its
program to buy Treasuries.  Congress should consider setting a target for inflation
because the Fed’s actions can cause “a lot of confusion for all
concerned,” said Corker, from Tennessee.  “The Fed’s dual mandate has failed,” Pence, of Indiana,
said in a statement yesterday. He wants the proposed legislation
to be considered in Congress’s current lame-duck session, said
Matt Lloyd, the conference’s communications director.  Halt Expansion  Pence joined critics yesterday after an open letter was
sent by former Republican government officials and economists,
asking Bernanke to halt the expansion of monetary stimulus.  “It’s time for the Fed to be solely focused on price
stability and not the recently announced QE2,” said the 51-
year-old lawmaker. Pence said the Fed’s second round of
quantitative easing will monetize the U.S. government’s debt and
ignite inflation.  House Republican Leader John Boehner of Ohio, who will
become speaker when the newly elected Congress convenes in
January, declined to comment today when asked whether he would
put Pence’s legislation to a vote.  House Financial Services Committee Chairman Barney Frank
said yesterday that “it would be a very dumb fight” for
Republicans to press legislation to eliminate the Fed’s dual
mandate.  ‘Terrible Idea’  “The notion that the Fed should be indifferent to
unemployment is a terrible idea, damaging to the economy,” the
Democrat from Massachusetts told reporters.  Before any House-approved bill can become law, it has to be
passed by the Senate and then go to President Barack Obama for
his signature.  Democrats still control both houses during the lame-duck
session that began yesterday. Republicans gained at least 60
House seats in the Nov. 2 election, enabling the party to seize
a majority in the chamber in January. Republicans gained six
seats in the Senate, trimming the Democrats’ control to 53-47.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net 
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  