-- Clinton Seeks to Save Russia Arms Treaty as Republicans Balk at Approval
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2010-11-17T20:15:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/republican-kyl-sees-delayed-vote-for-complex-russia-arms-control-treaty.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said the administration is nearing a consensus with
congressional leaders on funding for improvements to the U.S.
nuclear arsenal, a sticking point in efforts to win Senate
ratification this year for an arms control treaty with Russia.  Speaking after meeting with lawmakers, Clinton said the
Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty is ready for consideration by
the Senate and should be ratified.  “We’ve had very encouraging discussions” with “a number
of Republican senators who share our commitment to ensuring a
robust, nuclear modernization program,” Clinton said. “There
well may be a bipartisan consensus emerging on the need for such
funding.”  President  Barack Obama ’s push for a vote on the START
agreement suffered a setback yesterday when Arizona Senator  Jon Kyl , the chamber’s second-ranking Republican and one of his
party’s leading voices on nuclear-weapons policy, said the
issues are too complex to resolve by year’s end.  Postponing consideration of the treaty into 2011, when the
Democratic majority in the Senate shrinks, would make it more
difficult to win approval of an agreement Obama calls one of his
top foreign-policy priorities.  “This is going to be a test of the degree to which both
sides can work together on things that are of common interest,”
White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  told reporters today.
“I think the treaty will come up, I think the treaty will be
voted on, and I think we’ll have enough votes to pass it.”  ‘No Substantive Disagreement’  Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman  John Kerry , a
Massachusetts Democrat, said spending to modernize U.S. nuclear
forces is the only remaining area of disagreement with
Republicans.  Clinton said the lapse of the previous treaty leaves the
U.S. without inspectors on the ground in Russia to monitor that
country’s nuclear arsenal.  “We need to get our inspectors back into Russia after a
gap of nearly a year,” Clinton said. “As our intelligence and
defense colleagues have repeatedly noted, we are much better off
with the new START than without it.”  Senator  Richard Lugar , an Indiana Republican, said that
failure to ratify the treaty was “inexcusable” and that the
nuclear stockpiles of nations such as Russia, Iran and North
Korea pose “an existential problem for our country.”  Kyl has said Obama’s 10-year plan to spend $80 billion on
modernizing the U.S. nuclear-arms arsenal isn’t sufficient.  Military Backing  Obama’s top military adviser, Admiral  Michael Mullen , said
he is “very comfortable” with the treaty’s impact on U.S.
military capabilities and its verification procedures.  “It’s critical that we move forward as rapidly as we
can,” Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told
reporters at the Pentagon today.  Vice President  Joe Biden  said yesterday that the
administration, after talks with Kyl, has offered to spend an
additional $4.1 billion over the next five years to improve the
U.S. arsenal and nuclear laboratories.  Texas Republican Senator  John Cornyn  said newly elected
lawmakers who take office in January deserve a chance to be
heard on the treaty.  “It shouldn’t be rushed through in the lame-duck
session,” Cornyn said in an interview.  Under the current Senate lineup, the administration would
need support from at least eight Republicans to reach the
required two-thirds majority to ratify a treaty in the 100-
member Senate. Starting in January, Obama would have to line up
at least 14 Republican votes.  Russian Ratification  Russia’s State Duma is prepared to ratify the treaty, said
 Andrei Klimov , a deputy chairman of the International Affairs
Committee in the lower house of parliament.  “But this must be done in concert with the Americans,”
Klimov said by telephone. “We’ve made our decision, but haven’t
formalized it. The ball’s in the Americans’ court, so let them
knock it back and forth a bit.”  Treaty opponents include  John Bolton , the former U.S.
ambassador to the United Nations under Republican President
 George W. Bush , who says the treaty confers more benefits on
Russia than on the U.S.  Because budget constraints will force reductions in
Russia’s nuclear arsenal regardless of whether the treaty takes
effect, Bolton and other opponents say U.S. ratification of the
accord will unnecessarily preserve nuclear parity between the
two powers.  Resume Verification  Treaty supporters, including  Lugar , the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee’s ranking Republican, say the accord will
allow the two sides to resume verification of each other’s
arsenals, a process halted when the previous treaty expired
almost a year ago.  The monitoring, including site visits, is intended to give
both countries confidence that the other side isn’t secretly
trying to acquire a crushing nuclear superiority.  The new START agreement limits each side’s strategic
warheads to no more than 1,550, from 2,200 allowed previously,
and sets a maximum of 800 land-, air- and sea-based launchers.  Kyl and other Republicans have said that the treaty, signed
by Obama and Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  in April, would
hamper U.S. missile defenses.  Deny Obama Victory  “Some Republican senators just want to deny the president
a victory, while some are trying to get the best possible
deal,” said  Robert Kagan , a national security expert at
Brookings Institution in Washington and a former foreign policy
adviser to Republican Senator  John McCain  of Arizona. “Still,
blocking the treaty is a mistake.”  Obama told Medvedev on Nov. 14 in Tokyo that getting
Congress to ratify the treaty this year is a “top priority.”  Support from Kyl is “gettable” if Clinton and the
administration are willing to amend the treaty and more clearly
lay out modernization components, Senator  Lindsey Graham , a
South Carolina Republican, said in an interview.  Lugar,  Bob Corker  of Tennessee and  Johnny Isakson  of
Georgia joined 11 Democrats on the Foreign Relations Committee
in September on a 14-4 vote to send the treaty to the full
Senate for consideration.  Corker said the administration has made an effort and needs
to have patience and make changes Republicans are seeking.  “We want to make sure there’s a modernization process in
place so they actually work,” he said of weapons remaining in
the nuclear stockpile after the treaty is ratified.  “In the past, there’s been huge support for treaties like
these,” Corker said in an interview. “I really do believe this
can be passed” after a new Congress convenes in January.  The last three arms-reduction treaties passed the Senate
with more than 90 votes.  To contact the reports on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  