-- Rising Treasury Yields Helping Fed Raise Inflation Expectations With QE2
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2010-11-16T18:13:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/rising-treasury-yields-helping-fed-raise-inflation-expectations-with-qe2.html
The Federal Reserve said Nov. 3 that
it would start to buy $600 billion of Treasuries “to help
ensure that inflation, over time, is at levels consistent with
its mandate.” Bond yields suggest that is already happening.  Inflation expectations as measured by government securities
of all types are on the rise. The difference in yields between
short- and longer-maturity Treasuries has widened to the most
since June. Rates on bonds that protect against rising consumer
prices show investors are preparing for an increase.  The worst financial crisis since the Great Depression has
made sustained price declines, which makes consumers and
businesses less willing to spend or invest, a bigger concern to
the Fed than faster inflation. For policy makers, the way to
spark inflation is to increase the supply of money in the
economy by purchasing bonds.  “The Fed clearly wants to have a certain amount of
inflation in the system,” said  Jeffrey Gundlach,  founder and
head of Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP, which manages
$6.8 billion in assets. That is happening as “you’ve seen
significant movements in every currency appreciating against the
dollar, metals going crazy, the stock market going on a tear to
the upside. And the TIPS market has gone from a year-to-date
through August trend of lower, and lower inflation to suddenly
turning around to higher, and higher inflation expectations.”  The  difference  between yields on 2- and 10-year Treasury
notes steepened to 2.45 percentage points, the widest in four
months, as investors demand extra compensation to hold longer-
maturity debt, which typically gets hurt the most when inflation
accelerates.  Breakeven Rate  The  difference  in yields between 10-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities and comparable Treasuries have expanded to
2.05 percentage points from the year’s low of 1.47 percentage
points on Aug. 25. The difference is the rate of inflation
investors expect over the life of the securities. The Standard &
Poor’s 500  Index  rose 11.5 percent in the same period.  “To promote a stronger pace of economic recovery and to
help ensure that inflation, over time, is at levels consistent
with its mandate, the committee decided today to expand its
holdings of securities,” the Open Market Committee said on Nov.
3 after their policy meeting in Washington where Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  unveiled the $600 billion in purchases.  The yield on the benchmark  10-year note  climbed to as high
as 2.96 percent today from the low this year of 2.33 percent on
Oct. 8. It was at 2.94 percent as of 1:08 p.m. in New York,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield climbed 33
basis points, or 0.33 percentage point, the prior two days, the
biggest jump since January 2009.  Preferred Measure  While a quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll last week of 1,030
investors, analysts and traders who are Bloomberg subscribers
showed that 56 percent said the plan won’t boost growth, half
said it will help avoid deflation.  The personal consumption expenditures index excluding food
and energy, which is the Fed’s preferred gauge for consumer
prices, rose 1.2 percent in September from a year earlier, the
smallest increase since 2001. Fed policy makers have a long-run
goal of 1.7 percent to 2 percent inflation that they see as
consistent with achieving legislative mandates for maximum
employment and stable prices.  “Despite the Fed’s purchases, Treasuries remain pressured
on post QE2 ‘sell on the fact’ and on speculation that QE2 may
lead to inflation,” wrote  Jane Foley,  a senior currency
strategist at Rabobank International in London in a note today.  Yields to Rise  The central bank is trying to boost growth after near-zero
 interest rates  and $1.7 trillion in securities purchases during
its first round of quantitative easing helped pull the economy
out of recession without bringing joblessness  below 9 percent.  “Ten-year Treasury yields will begin to pick up slightly
now, and be in a continuous higher trend,” said  Fabrizio Fiorini,  head of fixed income at Aletti Gestielle SGR SpA in
Milan, who manages about $8 billion in assets. “You have to
discount that the Fed will be successful, so you should be
selling Treasuries.”  At the same time, the flow of credit to businesses hasn’t
slowed. Speculative-grade bond sales in the U.S. rose to $11.5
billion last week, the most since the period ended Sept. 24,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to own corporate bonds
rather than Treasuries ended yesterday at 2.64 percentage
points, down from 2.81 percentage points at the end of September
and 3.17 percentage points in June. In the leveraged, or high-
yield, loan market, prices have surged to 92.38 cents on the
dollar, from 88.35 cents at mid-year, based on the S&P/LSTA US
Leveraged Loan 100 Index.  Bernanke Letter  A group including former Republican government officials
and economists urged Bernanke in a letter published today to
stop his expansion of monetary easing, saying it risks an
inflation surge. Federal Reserve Bank of New York President
 William Dudley  said critics of the  expansion  of monetary
stimulus are underestimating the central bank’s ability to raise
rates when necessary.  “People do not understand clearly” that “we can have an
enlarged  balance sheet  and not have a long-term inflation
problem,” Dudley said in an interview with CNBC yesterday. “We
are very confident of our ability to exit when the time comes.”  The Thomson Reuters/ Jefferies CRB Index  of commodities has
rallied 13 percent since Bernanke indicated in an Aug. 27 speech
to central bankers in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, that he was
prepared to pump more cash into the economy. The U.S. Dollar
Index, a gauge of the greenback against six counterparts,
slumped 4.3 percent in that time period.  Producer Prices  Debt purchases will equal about a 0.75 percentage-point cut
in the federal funds rate, according to the Fed’s internal
estimates. The central bank has kept the rate in a range of zero
to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  The producer price index climbed 0.4 percent from the prior
month, Labor Department figures showed today in Washington.
Economists projected a 0.8 percent rise in October, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The so-called
core measure, which excludes volatile food and energy costs,
decreased 0.6 percent, the most since July 2006.  Consumer prices, the broadest of the three measures,
probably climbed 0.3 percent in October and the core index had
the smallest year-over-year advance since 1961, according to the
Bloomberg survey. Those figures are due tomorrow.  That may not last long, based on bond yields. The Fed’s so-
called five-year five-year forward breakeven inflation  rate ,
derived from yields on both nominal and TIPS, has risen to 3.07
percent, from as low as 2.18 percent in August, the least since
January 2009. The forward rate gives a signal of what investors
expect for five year inflation rates in five years time.  Fed purchases “are the only game in town in terms of
giving the economy a little bit more oomph and I think everyone
knows that we need more,”  Alan Blinder,  a Princeton University
professor and former Fed vice chairman, said during a Bloomberg
Television interview today. “The problem now is inflation is
too low.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liz Capo McCormick  in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  