-- Rogers CEO Would Consider Opportunities to Share Costs for Faster Network
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2010-11-16T21:27:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/rogers-ceo-would-consider-opportunities-to-share-costs-for-faster-network.html
Rogers Communications Inc. , Canada’s
largest wireless carrier, said it would consider opportunities
for sharing network development costs with other cable and
telecommunications companies as it tests new technology.  “We would look at the options for sure,” Chief Executive
Officer  Nadir Mohamed  said today at a conference in Toronto.
“We see ourselves in the leadership position.”  Rogers began trials for a new long-term evolution, or LTE,
network last month that would offer faster Web browsing and
accommodate an expected increase in smartphone traffic. Sharing
network construction costs would save Rogers money as it aims to
fend off competition from four new local wireless operators.  BCE Inc. and  Telus Corp. , Toronto-based Rogers’s two
biggest rivals, built a faster network together last year which
allowed them to introduce the iPhone and end Rogers’s Canadian
monopoly on the Apple Inc. device.  In October, Rogers said its “modest” increase in mobile-
phone subscribers on contracts last quarter was due in part to
“heightened competitive intensity.” Rogers continues to expect
“reasonable” growth but nowhere near the growth of the past
two or three years, as competition has increased, Mohamed said.  Rogers  rose  9 cents to C$36.93 at 4:15 p.m. in Toronto
Stock Exchange trading as BCE added 25 cents to C$33.34. Rogers
has climbed 13 percent this year and BCE, 15 percent.  Wireless Auction  BCE added more wireless subscribers last quarter than
analysts estimated, helping the Montreal-based company to report
a 1.3 percent increase in sales to C$4.52 billion.  “We have to maintain the wireless momentum that we have as
that’s the key revenue driver,” BCE CEO  George Cope  said at the
Toronto conference today.  The Canadian government’s next auction for wireless
spectrum, or mobile-device airwaves, must be “wide open” to
give the incumbents -- and not just the new carriers -- the
opportunity to tap its profit potential, Cope said.  “We’re going through spectrum at an unbelievable pace
because of video,” Cope said. “It’s going to be a great
revenue generator.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  