-- Qantas, Singapore Airlines, Lufthansa May Need A380 Engine Fix
-- B y   C h a n   S u e   L i n g
-- 2010-11-16T03:22:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/rolls-royce-says-repairs-needed-for-qantas-singapore-air-lufthansa-a380s.html
Qantas Airways Ltd.,  Singapore
Airlines Ltd.  and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG  may need to replace one
component in each of the engines powering their Airbus SAS A380
fleets, Rolls-Royce Group Plc said.  Rolls-Royce, the world’s second-largest maker of engines,
is working with customers to replace the part as inspections of
its Trent 900 engines continue, the London-based company said in
an e-mail today. The engine maker has identified the component
that led to the blowout of a turbine on a Qantas A380 flight
earlier this month and has said the incident is isolated to the
 Trent 900 engine , designed specifically for the A380.  “Over a period of time, it is likely we will replace the
relevant module on all engines,” Rolls-Royce said. “We seek to
minimize disruptions and this program will enable our customers
progressively to bring the whole fleet back into service.”  One of the four engines on a Qantas A380 blew up shortly
after takeoff from Singapore on Nov. 4, forcing an emergency
landing and damaging a wing. The blast prompted Qantas to ground
its fleet of A380s, while two other carriers switched engines
and the  European Aviation Safety Agency  ordered mandatory checks
of Trent 900 engines at regular intervals.  Qantas, Australia’s largest airline, kept its fleet of six
A380s grounded for the 13th day as the Sydney-based carrier
continued inspections of the engines and probed potential oil
leaks found in three engines.  Pulled From Service  Qantas  fell  2.5 percent to A$2.72 as of 1:44 p.m. in Sydney
trading, while Singapore Air dropped 0.1 percent in Singapore.
Rolls-Royce declined 2.3 percent in London yesterday, when
Lufthansa gained 0.5 percent in Frankfurt.  Singapore Air pulled three A380s out of service last week
to change one engine on each aircraft. The last of three planes
will be back in service today,  Nicholas Ionides , a spokesman for
the airline, said by phone. The carrier has declined to “speak
definitively” on the number of engines that may require
modification work.  Qantas has six of the double-decker A380s in its  fleet ,
while Singapore Air, the first to fly the superjumbo
commercially, has  11 . Lufthansa operates three A380s and is
scheduled to take delivery of its fourth this week, according to
Frank Puttmann, the carrier’s Singapore-based spokesman.  “We are working with Rolls-Royce very closely, and the
authorities,” Puttmann said by phone today. “So far, we have
no findings on our engines, so all our A380s are on schedule.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Sue Ling  in Singapore 
 slchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  