-- Rosengren, Bullard Say Fed Will Buy Full $600 Billion
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2010-11-16T21:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/rosengren-bullard-expect-fed-will-finish-600-billion-in-asset-purchases.html
Two Federal Reserve regional bank
presidents said they expect the central bank to buy the entire
$600 billion of Treasuries policy makers authorized Nov. 3 in a
bid to reduce unemployment.  “Given my forecast, I fully anticipate we will purchase
the entire amount,” Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren , 53,
said today in an interview with Bloomberg News.  James Bullard  of
St. Louis said in a separate interview the Fed would buy less
than planned only after a big improvement in the economy.  The two district bank chiefs expressed confidence in the
program amid criticism over the purchases from outside and
inside the Fed. Yesterday, a group of 23 people including former
Republican government officials and economists urged Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  to halt the expansion of monetary stimulus.  Republican lawmakers who have voiced opposition include
Wisconsin Representative  Paul Ryan , who said Nov. 7 the Fed’s
move is a “big mistake” that will cause an “inflation
problem.” He is set to chair the House Budget Committee.  “Certainly if the economy were to weaken substantially and
further disinflation were to occur, we should take more
action,” and officials could also make “adjustments” if the
economy turned out to be much stronger than expected, Rosengren
said.  Treasuries Rise  Treasuries rose after the comments, recovering from the
biggest two-day decline in almost two years. Yields on 10-year
notes fell 12 basis points to 2.85 percent as of 4:21 p.m. in
New York after jumping 31 basis points over the previous two
trading days. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Asked about the rise in 10-year Treasury yields over the
last two weeks, Rosengren said that “ideally” the Fed would
like to see rates stay low, “but we don’t control all the
things that affect these markets,” such as investor
expectations for fiscal deficits in the U.S. and abroad.  The Boston Fed estimates the renewed large-scale asset
purchases will help reduce the U.S. jobless rate by an
additional 0.5 percentage point over the next two years,
equivalent to adding 700,000 jobs, said Rosengren, who supported
the action as a voting member this year on the Fed’s Open Market
Committee.  That would mean an unemployment rate at the end of 2012 of
“around” 8 percent, “which means we’re still not where we
want to be,” and inflation excluding food and energy may not be
“drastically different” than now, he said.  Taylor Rule  Bullard, 49, said he favored a rule, similar to the Taylor
rule for setting the federal funds rate, that would adapt the
level of the Fed’s easing to incoming data on the economy and
inflation. He said he didn’t favor setting a $600 billion asset
purchase target, preferring a smaller number that would be
adjusted at each Fed meeting, although he voted for the policy.  “The economy would have to improve a fair amount before
the whole committee would pull back on” the purchase program,
Bullard said in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays
Advantage,” with  Kathleen Hays . “I think that is a
possibility, but it would depend on hard data that would force
us to reassess where the economy is going in the future.”  Bullard reiterated his concern about slowing inflation.  “Even though the economy has been recovering all year, we
have seen inflation coming down,” he said. “There is some
threat of getting into a Japanese-style malaise” with falling
prices.  No Hyperinflation  Rosengren, the Boston Fed’s president since 2007, said
private forecasters see inflation staying below 2 percent for
the next year, and “most of the interest rates do not seem
consistent with a hyperinflation story or even a high inflation
story.”  “Congress had made very clear what they want us to focus
on,” Rosengren said. “This policy focuses on trying to get the
economy growing fast enough that we bring the unemployment rate
down more quickly than we otherwise would and bring the
inflation rate back to what we think is financial stability.”  Several policy makers have expressed opposition or
skepticism about the stimulus. Fed Governor  Kevin Warsh  said
last week that he is “less optimistic than some that additional
asset purchases will have significant, durable benefits for the
real economy.”  Asked about the division of views on the FOMC, Rosengren
said that “there’s controversy whenever you’re in unusual
circumstances and you’re making decisions that are outside the
recent experience.”  “It’s not surprising that there would be a robust
discussion about what appropriate actions would be,” he said.
“The Federal Reserve is designed to encourage a wide range of
views to be voiced, considered seriously, and then a consensus
around what the appropriate decision should be. I think that has
worked.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net 
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  