-- Roy Halladay Becomes Fifth Pitcher to Win Cy Young Award in Both Leagues
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2010-11-16T21:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/roy-halladay-becomes-fifth-pitcher-to-win-cy-young-award-in-both-leagues.html
Roy Halladay  became the fifth
pitcher to win the Cy Young Award in both the National and
American Leagues after a season in which he threw a perfect game
and pitched his best at the close of the season.  Halladay, in his first year with the Philadelphia Phillies,
was unanimously named the NL’s best pitcher in balloting by the
 Baseball Writers’ Association of America . The St. Louis
Cardinals’  Adam Wainwright  was the runner-up.  The 33-year-old right-hander, who won the AL honor in 2003
with the Toronto Blue Jays, finished the season with a 21-10
record and a 2.44 earned run average. He threw Major League
Baseball’s 20th perfect game May 29. He also pitched a no-hitter
in his first postseason start on Oct. 6, after the votes for the
award were cast.  “The whole season was a dream come true for me,” Halladay
said. “To be able to finish it this way was a tremendous
thrill.”  Halladay, who learned of the honor while golfing in Mexico
with fellow major-leaguers  Chris Carpenter ,  Mike Sweeney  and
 Chris Young , said he was surprised at being named the first
unanimous winner since  Jake Peavy  in 2007.  “There could have been strong cases for four or five
different guys,” Halladay said on a conference call with
reporters.  Halladay’s second half separated him from the other
candidates. He went 11-3 after the All-Star break, including
wins in all five September starts as the Phillies overcame a
midseason slump to claim the NL East by six games with a 97-65
record.  Perfect Game  The high point of his regular season came in a 1-0 win over
the Florida Marlins, when he retired 27 consecutive batters to
record a perfect game.  He then threw the first no-hitter in the postseason since
 Don Larsen  in the 1956 World Series as the Phillies beat the
Cincinnati Reds 4-0. The feat came after Halladay failed to
reach the playoffs in 12 seasons with the Toronto Blue Jays.  Halladay, who agreed to a three-year, $60 million contract
extension after being traded from Toronto, earned all 32 first-
place votes in the poll and a total of 224 points in balloting
that took place prior to the postseason, becoming the 13th
unanimous winner in the NL and 16th multiple winner in either
league.  Seven points were awarded for each first-place vote, four
for second, three for third, two for fourth and one for fifth.  Wainwright, Jimenez  Wainwright earned 28 second-place votes and a total of 122
points. He was followed by the Colorado Rockies’  Ubaldo Jimenez 
(90 points) and the Atlanta Braves’  Tim Hudson  (39 points).  Tim Lincecum  of the San Francisco Giants, who won the award the
previous two seasons, finished 11th.  “It was definitely special for me knowing how good the
competition was,” Halladay said.  Wainwright was the only 20-game winner in the NL other than
Halladay, going 20-11 with a 2.42 ERA. He was 7-6 in 14 starts
after the All-Star break.  Jimenez had the best first half of the season, posting a
15-1 record and throwing a no-hitter before the All-Star break.
He finished the season with a 19-8 record and a 2.88 ERA.  The honor put Halladay in the company of  Roger Clemens ,
 Randy Johnson ,  Pedro Martinez  and  Gaylord Perry , who each won  Cy Youngs  in both leagues.  Favorite Stat  Halladay led the NL in victories, complete games (9),
shutouts (4) and strikeouts-to-walks ratio (7.3). His league-
best 250.2 innings pitched was his best accomplishment, he said.  “As a starter, the games you finish are always nice, but
to be able to go as deep as you can as consistently as possible
is something that all starting pitchers want to strive to do,”
Halladay said.  Pitchers were dominant throughout the majors in 2010. In
the NL, hurlers combined for a 4.03 ERA, the lowest since 1992.
The 0.93 home runs hit per game were the fewest since 1993 and
the 7.37 strikeouts per contest were the most ever.  “Looking at some of the guys that really dominated this
year, it’s going to be something that continues to stick out,”
Halladay said. “There’s just so much good young pitching coming
up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 