-- Rusal Says Chinese Aluminum Demand May Double in Decade Spurred by Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-16T02:59:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/rusal-says-chinese-aluminum-demand-may-double-in-decade-spurred-by-economy.html
Aluminum demand in China, the
world’s biggest consumer of the metal, may double in the next
decade, said  United Co. Rusal , the world’s biggest producer.  “Deliveries to Asia are going up, especially given that
China became a net importer of aluminum in September,”  Oleg Mukhamedshin , Rusal’s head of capital markets, said at an
investment conference in Hong Kong today. “Rusal can deliver
more aluminum to the biggest consumer market,” he said.  China became a net importer of aluminum from September
after local production was disrupted on power rationing, pushing
up global prices. Global aluminum demand has risen by 25 percent
this year from 2009, Rusal  said  last week in its earnings report.  China’s “market will continue to grow and observers expect
Chinese demand to double in the next ten years,” Mukhamedshin
said. China uses about 10 kilograms of the metal per capita a
year, which is much lower than western countries, he said.  Aluminum on the London Metal Exchange has gained 13 percent
since the beginning of September, trading at $2,390 a metric ton
at 10.34 a.m. Shanghai time.  China imported 7,740 metric tons of primary aluminum in
September, compared with 6,133 tons of exports in the same
period, customs data showed.  China’s aluminum production capacity could fall by as much
as 2 million metric tons because of energy cuts, according to
Mukhamedshin. The capacity reduction in China is having a
significant impact on the aluminum market, he said.  Henan province, the largest aluminum producing region, may
suspend around 1 million tons of production capacity in the
fourth quarter in an effort to meet Beijing’s energy-saving
targets, Zhang Fengkui, head of the nonferrous metals office at
the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, said at a
conference in Zhengzhou on Oct. 26.  -- Xiao Yu , John Duce. With assistance from  Helen Sun  in Shanghai.
Editors:  Alan Soughley ,  Jake Lloyd-Smith   To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Duce  in Hong Kong at   jduce1@bloomberg.net 
Xiao Yu in Beijing at   yxiao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ryan Woo at   rwoo5@bloomberg.net 
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 