-- Russian Services Hunt Moles After Spymaster's Defection, Kommersant Says
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2010-11-16T06:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/russian-services-hunt-moles-after-spymaster-s-defection-kommersant-says.html
Russian intelligence services are
hunting for more moles after a Moscow-based agent with knowledge
of a sleeper cell in the U.S. defected,  Kommersant  reported,
citing unidentified officials.  The newspaper reported Nov. 11 that a Russian official in
charge of all agents working without diplomatic cover in the
U.S. fled to America in June to help the Federal Bureau of
Investigation identify members of the ring. A second officer
with access to information about the U.S. cell may have defected
earlier, Kommersant said today.  The FBI, which had been tracking members of the cell for
years, decided to arrest the agents after the defection, fearing
Russian officials had become aware of its surveillance
operation, the Moscow-based newspaper said. Ten members of the
spy ring, some of whom had posed as ordinary Americans for more
than a decade, pleaded guilty to conspiring to serve as
unregistered foreign agents on June 8 in U.S. federal court.  They admitted to carrying money or coded messages, secretly
communicating with Russian officials and instructing others on
how to find information useful to Russia. Their objective was to
infiltrate U.S. policy-making circles after constructing false
American identities, prosecutors said. The Russian agents were
deported and swapped for four people convicted of spying in
Russia in July.  Kommersant cited an official close to the investigation as
saying the busting of the spy cell was a major embarrassment
that would lead to firings and demotions. The colonel who
defected had a daughter in the U.S., which was a serious
security lapse, the newspaper said.  President  Dmitry Medvedev  said Nov. 12 that the Kommersant
report “wasn’t news” and that he had known of the defection
“on the day it happened.” The president said “appropriate
lessons must be learned.”  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said in July that Russia knew
exactly who had betrayed the spy network. “Traitors always end
badly,” Putin said at the time. “They end up in the gutter
usually as drunks or drug addicts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brad Cook at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net  