-- Russian October Industrial Output Increased Annual 6.6%, Beating Estimates
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2010-11-16T14:22:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/russian-october-industrial-output-increased-annual-6-6-beating-estimates.html
Russian industrial production
increased an annual 6.6 percent in October, led by the
production of cars, trucks and other manufactured goods, beating
economists’ estimates.  Output growth accelerated after a 6.2 percent advance in
September, the Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said in an
e-mailed statement today. Non-seasonally adjusted output rose
4.2 percent from the previous month. The median estimate of 12
economists in a Bloomberg survey was for an annual increase of
5.4 percent.  New sales of passenger cars and light vehicles jumped 62
percent in October from the same period last year to 188,478,
according to the Association of European Businesses, whose
members include automakers Volkswagen AG and Ford Motor Co.
Sales may grow more than previously forecast this year as the
government’s rebate program stimulates demand, the AEB said.  “This continued recovery is very encouraging across all
segments of the industry,” David Thomas, chairman of AEB’s
automobile manufacturers committee, said in a statement Nov. 9.  Russia’s economy is emerging from last year’s 7.9 percent
contraction, the biggest on record, as higher commodities prices
and consumer demand boost growth. The government forecasts the
economy will expand 4 percent this year.  Manufacturing output rose an annual 9.9 percent in October,
the Federal Statistics Service said. Truck production increased
97 percent and the output of passenger cars more than doubled in
the month from a year earlier, it said.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
estimates its aluminum price in the fourth quarter will rise on
greater demand from Asia, Chief Executive Officer Oleg Deripaska
told reporters in Tokyo on Nov. 14. The market for alumina, the
raw material for aluminum, has also picked up from last
quarter’s levels, he said, adding that Rusal “may consider next
year more additional capacity to be put into operation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  