-- Russia Calls for Creation of International Tribunal to Combat Ship Piracy
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-11-16T14:04:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/russia-calls-for-creation-of-international-tribunal-to-combat-ship-piracy.html
Russia is pushing for the creation
of an international tribunal on piracy to help to ease the
pressure on countries including Kenya to prosecute suspects,
Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said.  “We have to be more decisive in fighting piracy, and
Russian and other militaries are working to intensify the
fight,” Lavrov told reporters today in the Kenyan capital,
Nairobi.  Kenya started last year to prosecute suspected pirates
captured by foreign navies patrolling the Indian Ocean and Gulf
of Aden, after signing accords with the European Union, the
U.S., the U.K., Canada, China and Denmark. Government officials
from the East African nation have threatened to terminate the
agreements unless Kenya receives more financial help.  “We are receiving a lot of these pirates, but these have
had the effect of putting a lot of burden on our own courts and
also the prisons,”  George Saitoti , Kenya’s acting foreign
minister, told a press conference with Lavrov today.
International support “has not been forthcoming,” he said.  Russia circulated a text adopted by the  United Nations 
Security Council in April, asking UN Secretary-General  Ban Ki- moon  to report on options for “a regional tribunal or an
international tribunal and corresponding imprisonment
arrangements.”  The number of merchant ships hijacked by pirates increased
15 percent in the first nine months of the year to 39 as Somali
assailants had more success in snatching vessels, the
 International Maritime Bureau  said on Oct. 18.  British Couple Freed  A British couple, Paul and Rachel Chandler, were freed on
Nov. 14 by pirates, ending a year-long ordeal after they were
hijacked while sailing their yacht toward Tanzania.  Piracy has flourished off the coast of Somalia, Kenya’s
neighbor to the north, which has been mired in civil war and
lacked a functioning central administration since the removal of
 Mohamed Siad Barre , the former dictator, in 1991.  The international community should fight “not only the
symptoms of piracy but also the roots,” which are social and
economic in nature, Lavrov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 