-- Rwanda's Central Bank Cuts Benchmark Interest Rate to 6% to Boost Lending
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2010-11-16T10:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/rwanda-s-central-bank-cuts-benchmark-interest-rate-to-6-to-boost-lending.html
Rwanda’s central bank cut its repo
lending rate by one percentage point to 6 percent to encourage
commercial banks to lend more to the private sector rather than
investing in government bonds and treasury bills.  Interest rates are now likely to stay unchanged through the
first quarter of next year, the  National Bank of Rwanda  said
today in a statement handed to reporters in the capital, Kigali.  “One of the policies to encourage the increase of bank
loans to the private sector is to reduce incentives for banks to
invest in NBR/government instruments, by lowering the key repo
rate,” it said.  While the central African country’s economy has grown an
average of about 8 percent over the past decade, commercial
banks have shied away from offering long term credit, opting to
buy safer, government bonds. Today’s rate cut is the second this
year after a half percentage point drop in March. The repo rate
fell 150 basis points from 9 percent in December.  Banks are not lending enough to the private sector, even
though the appetite for government bonds shows there is excess
liquidity in the market, National Bank of Rwanda Governor
 Francois Kanimba  said on Aug. 26. A two-year, 2.5 billion
Rwandan franc ($4.2 million) Treasury note in August attracted
7.6 billion francs in bids.  Inflation  The economy is expected to expand 7.2 percent this year
after growing 6 percent in 2009, the central bank said.
Inflation will probably accelerate to 4 percent by March from
0.17 percent in October, avoiding deflation, it said.  “Developments in monetary conditions, food prices, credit
as well as government, investment and personal spending show
that deflation will not occur in Rwanda in 2010,” the bank said
in an e-mailed response to questions.  Annual inflation has slowed from 22.3 percent in December
2008, according to National Institute of Statistics.  The central bank’s average reference rate, or customer
rate, for the franc will be replaced by buying and selling rates
based on the previous day’s closing market level, the bank said.  Rwanda is rebuilding its economy after about 800,000
people, or more than a 10th of its population, were killed in a
1994 genocide when ethnic Hutu militias slaughtered minority
Tutsis and moderate Hutus over a 100-day period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Kigali via Johannesburg at 
1934  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  