-- S&P 500 May Rise 20% on U.S. Growth, O'Neill Says
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2010-11-16T13:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/s-p-500-may-rise-20-on-u-s-growth-o-neill-says.html
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  may
rise as much as 20 percent in 12 months and the dollar is poised
to climb as U.S. economic growth tops investors’ projections,
Goldman Sachs Asset Management Chairman  Jim O’Neill  said.  The U.S. equity market will probably outperform the rest of
the world and the dollar may strengthen 5 percent from current
levels, O’Neill said in an interview in London today. The
Federal Reserve will engage in another round of bond purchases,
or “QE3,” if its current program fails to revive growth in the
world’s largest economy, O’Neill said.  The  S&P 500  is little changed since Nov. 3, when the Fed
said it would buy $600 billion of Treasuries, adding to an
earlier $1.7 trillion asset-purchase program known as
quantitative easing that’s designed to cut unemployment and
avert deflation.  The Dollar Index , which tracks the U.S.
currency against those of six trading partners, rose 3 percent
during the period.  “If QE2 doesn’t work, then we’ll get QE3,” said O’Neill,
who was named chairman of the money manager in September after
working as the co-head of global economics research and chief
currency economist at New York-based  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. 
since 1995. There’s a “good chance” the S&P 500 will rise 15
percent to 20 percent in the next 12 months, he said.  Goldman Sachs Asset Management oversaw about $820 billion
as of Sept. 30.  China Slowdown  The S&P 500 has climbed 7.4 percent this year, following a
23 percent rally in 2009, as the U.S. economy rebounded from the
worst global financial crisis since the Great Depression. A
government report yesterday showed sales at U.S. retailers
climbed in October by the most in seven months, brightening the
outlook for holiday shopping even as unemployment holds near 10
percent.  “The U.S. economy is actually doing a bit better than
people had thought so we might go through a phase here where
people think the Fed might actually not have to deliver much of
QE2,” he said. “If I’m right, the dollar will strengthen.”  China’s government may target a slower annual economic
growth rate of 7 percent in its next five-year plan, which might
“shock” commodity markets, O’Neill said.  “Particularly in the commodity world, the whole game plan
of the last decade” was based on rising demand from China, he
said. “I think that game is in the process of changing.”  Today’s tumble in Chinese stocks that sent the  Shanghai
Composite Index  down 4 percent to a one-month low may still be a
buying opportunity for long-term investors, he said.  ‘Buying Opportunity’  “From a big-picture perspective it is a buying
opportunity, but whether we saw the bottom this morning I don’t
know, because the Chinese need to make sure inflation doesn’t
pick up much,” O’Neill said.  Chinese Central Bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said today the
country is under “pressure” from capital inflows and a state-
run newspaper said price controls may be imposed to cool the
fastest inflation in two years. Crude oil and copper futures
sank more than 1 percent on concern Chinese demand will weaken.  O’Neill, 53, created the BRICs acronym in 2001 to describe
the rising power of large emerging markets in Brazil, Russia,
India and China.  The probability of a breakup of the euro is “no longer
zero,” O’Neill said. Ireland is in talks with  European
and International Monetary Fund officials about a bailout that
would shore up the state’s finances as well as enable it to
inject capital into the country’s banks, said a European
official with direct knowledge of the talks.  The Irish turmoil marks a new stage in a sovereign-debt
crisis that was triggered by Greece and threatened to break the
euro region apart in May. The euro has weakened 9 percent
against the dollar during the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 