-- Sanford Bernstein May Double Asian Research Analysts, CEO Says
-- B y   D a r r e n   B o e y
-- 2010-11-16T03:03:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/sanford-c-bernstein-may-double-asian-research-analysts-ceo-gingrich-says.html
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. , the
brokerage unit of AllianceBernstein Holding LP, plans to more
than double its research team in Asia as it expands business in
a region that is leading global economic growth.  The number of analysts in Hong Kong may rise to as many as
15 in the coming year from six, Chief Executive Officer  James Gingrich  said in an interview in the firm’s Hong Kong office on
Nov. 10. Coverage will be extended to banking, insurance,
property and mining, in addition to oil and gas, utilities and
financials at present, New York-based Gingrich said. Technology
analysts are preparing to publish their first reports, he said.  The firm is hiring in Asia, home to the world’s fastest-
growing major economies, at the same time as South Korea’s
Samsung Securities Co., Daiwa Securities Group Inc. and London-
based Standard Chartered Plc. China will overtake the U.S. as
the world’s largest economy by 2020, while India will surpass
Japan as the third biggest, Standard Chartered economists wrote
in a report yesterday.  “It might take some time for Bernstein to build a
franchise in Asia, even though they are successful in the U.S.
and Europe,” said  Lilian Leung , a Hong Kong-based fund manager
at JPMorgan Asset Management, who previously worked for
AllianceBernstein. “Many Asian investors are not familiar with
the name. You’ve just got more competition here.”  Samsung Securities wants to employ as many as 20 analysts
and sales staff in Taiwan and Singapore next year, Chief
Executive Officer Park Chun Hyeon said two weeks ago. Daiwa
Securities, Japan’s No. 2 brokerage, is aiming to increase its
headcount in Asia by 50 percent, CEO Shigeharu Suzuki said on
Nov. 12. Standard Chartered plans to boost its Southeast Asian
numbers by about 20 percent in the next two years.  ‘Fishing In Pools’  Sanford C. Bernstein was founded in 1967 by financier
Zalman Bernstein to cater to wealthy individuals. It was bought
in 2000 by Alliance Capital Management LP for $3.5 billion and
has developed a reputation for hiring company executives and
turning them into financial analysts.  “We are fishing in pools that others in the financial
world aren’t fishing in,” Gingrich said. “We will almost
always err on the side of growing slower and hire the right
types of people than grow fast and hire the wrong types.”  The top-ranked analyst covering broker-dealers in
Institutional Investor’s 2010 fund manager survey was Sanford C.
Bernstein’s  Brad Hintz , formerly chief financial officer at
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and a treasurer at Morgan Stanley.
Bernstein was rated the sixth-best research house in the poll,
finishing ahead of Morgan Stanley and Citigroup Inc.  In-Depth View  “You would expect an in-depth industry view from them,”
said JPMorgan Asset’s Leung, who manages the  JF China Pioneer A-
Share Fund , which had $772 million of assets at the end of last
month, according to data compiled by  Bloomberg. Leung said she
will “probably” use Sanford C. Bernstein’s research in coming
months.  The firm’s six analysts in the region are part of the 30
employees the company has currently in Hong Kong and Singapore.
Including the new analyst hires, that total may increase “close
to” 60 in the next year, Gingrich said, adding that the firm
will maintain its practice of recruiting people from within the
industries the brokerage will cover in Asia rather than finance
analysts directly.  “What we will see in the next year is that more of the
headcount additions will be on the research side than on the
distribution side,” said Gingrich, who joined Bernstein in 1999
as an analyst covering the household and personal-care industry.  Oil, Semiconductors  Neil Beveridge , the firm’s Asia-Pacific oil and gas
analyst, joined Bernstein in 2008, following 11 years at BP Plc,
the world’s sixth-largest oil and gas producer by market value,
a company profile showed.  Mark Li , Bernstein’s Asian
semiconductor analyst, started at the firm in June after eight
years with Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.  “They have people who know their industry very, very
well,” said  Andrew Sullivan , a director of institutional sales
trading at OSK Securities Hong Kong Ltd., who has previously
interviewed with Bernstein. “It will appeal to the likes of
long-term institutional investors who believe in fundamental
research. Certainly in the U.S., they’ve built a very good
reputation with that model.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  