-- SAP Owes Oracle $40.6 Million, Damages Expert Says
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-11-16T20:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/sap-owes-oracle-40-6-million-for-infringement-expert-tells-federal-jury.html
SAP AG , on trial because a now-
defunct subsidiary downloaded  Oracle Corp.  software without
authorization, owes at most $40.6 million for royalties it
should have paid, SAP’s expert told a federal court jury.  Stephen Clarke, a damages expert hired by SAP to analyze
how much the company may owe for infringing Oracle’s software,
said  damages  should be based on the 358 customers the unit
actually garnered, not the 3,000 customers that SAP had
estimated might have left  Oracle  to become SAP customers.  “What happened as a result of that infringement is what
matters,” Clarke said today at a trial in Oakland, California.
“The only way to do that is focus on one customer at a time.”  Oracle, the  second-largest maker  of business application
software behind Walldorf, Germany-based SAP, sued its competitor
in 2007, claiming the TomorrowNow software maintenance unit made
hundreds of thousands of downloads and several thousand copies
of Oracle’s software to avoid paying licensing fees and to steal
customers.  SAP has agreed that the infringement occurred. The
downloads enabled TomorrowNow to fix bugs and provide updates to
software customers who otherwise would have had to pay Oracle
for maintenance or do the work themselves.  The trial, which began Nov. 1, will determine how much in
damages SAP should pay.  Ellison’s Estimate  Oracle  Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  testified
Nov. 8 that the value of the license fees that SAP should have
paid was about $4 billion. Oracle’s damages expert, Paul Meyer,
said SAP should pay about $1.7 billion.  Other  Oracle executives  have told the jury that the Redwood
City, California-based company’s $11 billion investment in the
acquisition of PeopleSoft Inc. and its software was compromised
by the infringement. They point to an SAP document showing that
SAP hoped to use TomorrowNow’s discounted services to lure
thousands of PeopleSoft customers away from Oracle.  Clarke said the price paid for PeopleSoft has no bearing on
damages. Customers who remained at Oracle or who left it for
reasons unrelated to TomorrowNow’s infringement shouldn’t be
counted, he said.  “The $11 billion is just, it’s like a magician, look at
the $11 billion. But that’s not where you should be looking,”
Clarke said. “You should be looking at the value of what was
infringed and the way TomorrowNow used it.”  Lost Profits  Damages should be based on Oracle’s  lost profits  for
maintenance services it could have sold customers who went to
TomorrowNow and the profits SAP and TomorrowNow made by having
access to the infringing software, Clark said.  He calculated those profits at about $28 million. The jury
might instead award damages based on the value of the license
SAP could have negotiated for the software. He estimated the
value of that license at $40.6 million.  The trial is expected to last another week.  The case is Oracle Corp. v. SAP AG, 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 