-- Sarkozy Plans Tax-System Overhaul in 2011, May Abolish Levy on Wealth
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2010-11-16T23:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/sarkozy-plans-tax-system-overhaul-in-2011-may-abolish-levy-on-wealth.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
said he’ll overhaul the tax system next year and may abolish the
wealth tax in the process.  Speaking in a 90-minute television interview late
yesterday, Sarkozy said the tax burden on France won’t rise and
that he aims to cut public spending and the deficit.  “France can’t be the only country in Europe that maintains
an arsenal of taxes that causes factories and capital to flee,”
he said in the interview with journalists from three networks.
“France has long made the mistake of taxing assets, rather than
the earnings and capital gains from assets.”  The wealth tax, called ISF in French, was introduced by
Socialist President  Francois Mitterrand  in 1981. Other European
countries have either abolished their version of the levy or
never had one. To temper its effect, Sarkozy introduced a bill
that limits tax payments to 50 percent.  “We’re heading toward abolition of the tax shield and of
the ISF and toward the creation of a new tax,” he said. Changes
were needed to keep France competitive with Germany, he said.  The new measures will be announced in spring 2011 and will
be passed as an amendment to the 2011 budget, he said.  On the economy, he said unemployment, which is at 9.7
percent, will fall next year.  Sarkozy said the biggest problem facing France is excessive
spending, and that his government has cut 135,000 civil service
jobs since he entered office. The deficit this year will be 7.7
percent of gross domestic product, and Sarkozy plan to narrow it
to 6 percent next year, and eventually to 3 percent.  Sarkozy said he’ll use France’s presidency of the Group of
20 countries to push for changes to the international monetary
system. ”We can’t stay in this monetary bedlam,” he said. “We
need a new monetary system.”  Asked whether he will run for a second mandate in May 2012,
Sarkozy said he would announce his decision in the fall of 2011.
He said also that he was taking advice from his “intelligent”
wife, the Italian-born model-turned-singer  Carla Bruni-Sarkozy .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@Bloomberg.net ;
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  