-- Satyam Slides on Concern Software Maker Failing to Win Profitable Orders
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2010-11-16T11:39:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/satyam-computer-falls-in-mumbai-after-reporting-second-quarter-earnings.html
Satyam Computer Services Ltd. , the
software developer embroiled in India’s biggest corporate fraud
probe, fell the most in almost two years in Mumbai trading on
concerns the company is failing to win profitable contracts.  The shares declined as much as 12 percent to 74.3 rupees,
the biggest drop since Jan. 15, 2009, at the 3:30 p.m. close of
trading. The benchmark  Sensex  index fell 2.2 percent.  Satyam’s clients had put their orders “on hold,” Chief
Executive Officer  Chander Prakash Gurnani  said yesterday after
the Hyderabad-based company reported quarterly earnings for the
first time since December 2008. Satyam’s net income in the three
months ended September plunged 76 percent from the June quarter,
indicating the company’s inability to seek higher prices from
clients, said Rahul Jain, a Mumbai-based analyst.  “If I’m a client and I get similar capability and pricing
from a company that’s not tainted the way Satyam is, what’s the
logic in going with Satyam?” said Jain, an analyst with Dolat
Capital Market Ltd. “I’ll ask for a discount. Satyam is winning
deals, but I believe they are still getting business at lower
pricing.”  Jain has a “neutral to negative” rating on Satyam.  Satyam had a profit of 233 million rupees ($5.1 million) in
the three months ended September, the company said yesterday
after trading hours.  The company, which delayed reporting its accounts after
former Chairman  Ramalinga Raju  disclosed in January 2009 that he
overstated Satyam’s assets by $1 billion, will be absorbed by
its largest shareholder, Tech Mahindra Ltd., by November 2011.  “A lot of clients had put us on hold, waiting for us to
come out with results,” Gurnani said. “Now we can aggressively
go back to our lost and prospective customers. Overall, we are
on the right track.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  