-- Schumer Seeks Republican Support for $7.4 Billion Trade Center Health Bill
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2010-11-16T21:58:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/schumer-seeks-republican-support-for-7-4-billion-trade-center-health-bill.html
Democratic Senators  Charles Schumer 
and  Kirsten Gillibrand  of New York said they are pressing
Republicans to vote for a $7.4 billion bill providing health
care to people sickened by work at the World Trade Center site.  Schumer and Gillibrand told reporters in Washington today
they’re working to secure the votes needed to pass the
legislation before the end of year, when the current
congressional session ends. Joining them were union leaders,
people who worked at the site of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks,
and New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg .  “We don’t have the votes that we need right now, but we
are working very hard to get them,” Schumer said. “We are
close.”  The  House  in September passed the bill, which would provide
medical care, testing and compensation payments for those
exposed by toxic dust from the destroyed skyscrapers. More than
30,000 workers and survivors of the 2001 attacks are suffering
from illnesses caused by such exposure, according to supporters
of the legislation.  The bill is among measures lawmakers are racing to finish
over the next two months, before Republicans take control of the
House and reduce Democrats’ Senate majority by six seats. The
bill drew opposition from some Republicans who balked at
creating the benefit program.  ‘Moral Obligation’  The program would be paid for by eliminating a tax break
that applies to foreign corporations with U.S. subsidiaries.  “This should not be a partisan fight,” Gillibrand said.
“We have an undeniable moral obligation.”  Bloomberg came to Washington to meet with Republicans to
seek support for the bill. Republican backing is needed to reach
the 60 votes necessary to ensure the measure comes to a vote by
the full Senate.  “We cannot wait any longer for action on this
legislation,” said Bloomberg. “Let’s work together, on both
sides of the aisle, now to ensure that those who survived the
attacks and all those who risked their lives receive the health
care they need.”  Bloomberg is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  