-- Efforts to Extend Bush-Era Tax Cuts Falter as Talks Are Delayed
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2010-11-17T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/senate-s-durbin-not-very-optimistic-bush-era-tax-cuts-will-be-extended.html
A deal to extend soon-to-expire
Bush-era tax cuts won’t be completed until December, and some
Democrats in Congress said an accord may not be reached this
year.  President  Barack Obama  and congressional leaders postponed
until Nov. 30 a White House meeting, previously scheduled for
tomorrow, to negotiate whether to extend lower tax rates for all
taxpayers or just those with incomes of $250,000 or less.
Separately, Democrats, who control the Senate, said they haven’t
agreed on a plan.  “I don’t even know what the options are at this moment,”
Senator  Maria Cantwell , a Democrat from Washington state who
serves on the tax-writing Finance Committee, said yesterday.  The delay sets the stage for year-end brinksmanship that
would result in higher taxes for all Americans next year if
Congress fails to pass legislation that Obama agrees to sign.
The tax cuts enacted in 2001 and 2003 are scheduled to expire
Dec. 31.  Unless Congress acts, marginal income tax rates will rise
across the board, tax credits that benefit families will be
slashed, and rates on capital gains and dividends will increase.
In addition, a federal tax on estates worth more than $1 million
will be resurrected after expiring for 2010.  Clint Stretch , managing principal at the consulting firm
Deloitte Tax LLP in Washington, said expiration of all of the
Bush tax cuts would add $2,600 annually to the tax burden of a
median-income family earning about $70,000 a year.  Extending the tax cuts permanently would cost the
government $5 trillion in foregone revenues and interest on the
debt over the next decade, the Congressional Research Service
reported last month.  Tax Cut Caps  Obama is at loggerheads with congressional Republicans over
whether to cap the tax cuts for individuals with annual incomes
of more than $200,000 and couples who make more than $250,000 a
year. He has said he’s willing to negotiate on his position;
Republicans say they won’t budge on theirs.  The White House yesterday rescheduled until Nov. 30 a
meeting with Democratic and Republican congressional leaders,
press secretary  Robert Gibbs  said in a statement.  Obama had invited the leaders to meet Nov. 18 and had said
he expected to focus on the economic matters being considered in
the lame-duck session, particularly the tax cuts. The Republican
leaders in the House and the Senate,  John Boehner  of Ohio and
 Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, requested the change in date
because of scheduling conflicts while they organize for the
congressional session that starts in January, the White House
statement said.  The delay gives both parties an opportunity to come up with
alternative approaches.  ‘A Kajillion Ideas’  “There are a kajillion ideas floating around,” said
Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana
Democrat.  One, by Senator  Mark Warner , a Virginia Democrat, would
steer tax cuts that would have flowed to high-income individuals
to businesses in the hopes of stimulating investment and hiring.
Another, by Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat, would
sustain the Bush tax cuts for all households earning less than
$1 million, rather than $250,000.  Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican, told a
meeting of business tax lobbyists that members of his party
would oppose a third alternative that would extend tax breaks
for middle-income households for a longer period than for richer
Americans.  ‘A Terrible Idea’  Such a proposal, advanced by some Democrats, “is a
terrible idea and a total non-starter,” Camp told the Tax
Council. If it happens, “I think this issue will end up getting
kicked into next year” when Republicans would seek to renew the
tax cuts retroactively, said Camp, who is in line to become
chairman of the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee in the next
Congress.  Michigan Democrat  Sander Levin , the current Ways and Means
chairman, said initial discussions center on Senate action to
pass a tax bill before the House acts. Because of the potential
for a Republican filibuster, the vote-counting path to Senate
passage is more difficult for Democrats in that chamber than in
the House.  Overcoming a filibuster requires 60 votes; Democrats
currently control 59 seats, and at least four Democrats support
some version of the Republican position. After Thanksgiving,
Republicans will gain one seat when Senator-elect  Mark Kirk  of
Illinois is sworn in to replace appointed Democratic Senator
 Roland Burris .  Democrats’ Support  Conversely, the 41 Senate Republicans would need 19
Democrats to vote with them to win the 60 votes necessary to
waive budget rules and extend Bush-era policies that benefit
only high-income taxpayers. These include retention of reduced
top marginal rates and a 15 percent rate on capital gains and
dividends for upper-income taxpayers.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, told
reporters yesterday that he is willing to “take a look at” a
temporary extension of all the Bush-era tax cuts, even though he
opposes extending tax policies targeted to benefit high-income
taxpayers.  Whether he can go along with it depends on the rest of the
Senate Democrats. “I’m waiting to see how my caucus comes down
on this, but it’s clear that the vast majority of my caucus
believes that we should protect the middle class,” he said.  Democratic senators including  Mary Landrieu  of Louisiana
and  Debbie Stabenow  of Michigan yesterday said they oppose
financing tax cuts for high-income taxpayers with deficits.
Vermont Senator  Bernard Sanders , an independent who votes with
Democrats, also criticized the idea.  “The people of America want us to get our financial house
in order and it starts by stop borrowing money,” Landrieu said.
She said people shouldn’t “clamor for borrowing money that we
don’t have to give out tax cuts.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net ;
 Richard Rubin  in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  