-- Serbian Premier Cvetkovic Says He's `Very Optimistic' on IMF Bailout Talks
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2010-11-16T10:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/serbian-premier-cvetkovic-says-he-s-very-optimistic-on-imf-bailout-talks.html
Serbian Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic  said he’s “very optimistic” that an International
Monetary Fund mission will be completed by Nov. 18 to ensure the
next installment of the Balkan nation’s bailout loan.  The government will submit required documentation on
rebalancing this year’s state budget, the preparation of a
budget for next year and the completion of pension-law issues,
he said in an interview in Prague today.  “All of that is prepared and I’m very optimistic it will
all be done so that on the 18th the mission will formally be
completed and the letter of intent signed,” Cvetkovic said.  Serbia is struggling to emerge from its first recession
since 1999, when a NATO bombing, aimed at forcing the country’s
troops to withdraw from Kosovo, destroyed most of its
infrastructure. The government relies on a 3 billion-euro ($4.1
billion)  IMF  loan to support its balance of payments.  The government is searching for ways to reduce spending and
boost tax collection without cutting too many popular social
benefits as it brings the economy into line with European Union
norms.  “The deficit next year will be around 4 percent of gross
domestic product, when we are talking about the so-called
consolidated budget, which includes all public sectors,”
Cvetkovic said.  Aid  The Serbian dinar gained as much as 0.5 percent to the
euro, reversing a decline from the previous day, to trade at
106.86 to Europe’s common currency as of 11:25 a.m. in Belgrade.  The former communist countries of  Europe  and central Asia
are recovering from their deepest recessions since switching to
free-market policies, after cheap credit helped growth average 5
percent annually in the years before the credit crunch. The IMF
provided more than $70 billion of loans to the region during the
global financial crisis, making it the largest recipient of
bailouts.  Serbia, Hungary, Latvia, Ukraine and Romania all received
loans as they struggled to refinance debt, often denominated in
foreign currencies. The region received more than $100 billion
in total, including aid from the European Union and World Bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  