-- Severstal Profit Doubles, Beating Estimates; Sees Improving U.S. Outlook
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2010-11-16T09:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/severstal-third-quarter-net-doubles-on-material-prices-beating-estimates.html
OAO Severstal,  Russia’s largest
steel producer, said profit almost doubled in the third quarter,
beating analyst estimates, after the company sold surplus output
of iron ore and coal used in steelmaking for higher prices.  Net income jumped 92 percent from the prior quarter to $368
million, compared with the average estimate of $309 million in a
Bloomberg survey of six analysts. Sales fell 7.3 percent to
$3.94 billion, Severstal said in a statement today.  The company, which is resuming dividends for the first time
in two years with a $0.14 a share interim recommendation, will
pay out 25 percent of second- and third-quarter profit.  Severstal is expanding in mining, mulling small and medium-
sized deals including in gold, Chief Executive Officer  Alexei Mordashov  said Sept. 6. The company, which may sell steel mills
in Europe and the U.S., will be a “global metals and mining
company,” he said. Severstal, also Russia’s second-largest gold
miner, took control of Oslo-traded  Crew Gold Corp.  in July and
raised its stake in  High River Gold Mines Ltd.  to 70.4 percent.  Severstal North America posted a $59-million loss for its
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
compared with a profit of the same amount the prior quarter.  “The results are likely to disappoint the market, which
will be focused again on weak numbers from the U.S. operations
and lack of progress on the sale of these loss-making assets,”
 Dmitry Smolin , a Uralsib Capital analyst, wrote in a note today.  Severstal fell 1.6 percent to 439.80 rubles by 12:03 p.m.
in Moscow trading and declined 2.1 percent in London.  The company expects the U.S. steel market to recover in the
first quarter because of low stockpiles. Russian steel use will
grow about 8 percent next year, driven by state infrastructure
spending, Severstal said in the statement.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 