-- Singapore Gasoil Profit May Fall on Capacity Gains, SocGen Says
-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 2010-11-16T05:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/singapore-gasoil-profit-may-fall-on-capacity-gains-socgen-says.html
Gasoil refining margins in Singapore,
an indicator of profits from making the fuel in Asia, may
decline in the coming weeks because of excess supply capacity,
Societe Generale SA said.  Margins have “more downside than upside,”  Mike Wittner ,
head of oil market research in London, and  Stephanie Aymes , an
analyst, said in note to clients yesterday. “While further
strength in the cracks cannot be ruled out,” surges in the
premium, also known as the crack spread, will be limited by
spare global refining capacity globally, they said.  The  Asian gasoil crack  rose to the highest since January
2009 yesterday amid a diesel shortage in China which has left
some gas stations dry and forced refiners in the country to
raise utilization rates. The Chinese government’s push to
achieve emission targets by the end of this year has led to
electricity cuts at some factories, prompting users to switch on
diesel-run generators.  “Refiners in China and elsewhere have the flexibility and
capacity to respond to the market incentive of strong gasoil
cracks,” the analysts said. “We would emphasize one of our
core product market themes, which is that the comfortable
cushion of spare global refining capacity will limit the
magnitude and duration of crack surges caused by local product
market dislocations.”  Prices of  Singapore gasoil , or diesel, have risen to a
premium of $14 a barrel currently versus  Dubai crude  from $11 a
barrel in June amid China’s country’s diesel shortage, according
to the analysts.  PetroChina Co. and China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., the
country’s biggest refiners, have said they were bolstering
diesel output to ease the gap in supply and demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ann Koh  in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jane Lee in Kuala Lumpur at 
 jalee@bloomberg.net  