-- Singapore Export Growth Quickens as Shipments of Electronics, Drugs Gain
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2010-11-16T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/singapore-export-growth-quickens-as-shipments-of-electronics-drugs-gain.html
Singapore’s export growth
accelerated in October as manufacturers shipped more electronics
and pharmaceutical goods abroad, an advance that may ease as
global growth cools in the coming months.  Non-oil domestic  exports  climbed 34.5 percent from a year
earlier, after a revised 22.6 percent gain in September, the
trade promotion agency said in a statement in Singapore today.
The median forecast of 13 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News
was for an increase of 26.6 percent.  The “stocking cycle in the run-up to the year-end festive
season” supported exports,  Frances Cheung , a Hong Kong-based
senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB, said before the report.  Singapore’s economy grew at a record pace in the first half
of 2010 as the global rebound lifted exports. Still, overseas
demand for goods by Asian manufacturers such as Singapore-based
 Hi-P International Ltd ., whose customers include BlackBerry
maker Research in Motion Ltd., may cool as the recovery slows.  The island’s economy contracted last quarter as
manufacturing eased, a report showed last month.  Electronics shipments  by companies including Venture Corp.,
Singapore’s biggest publicly traded electronics contract
manufacturer, climbed 34 percent in October from a year earlier
to S$6.5 billion ($5 billion), after a 21.2 percent gain the
previous month.  Non-electronics shipments, which include petrochemicals and
pharmaceuticals, gained 34.9 percent. Pharmaceutical shipments
rose 26.2 percent after climbing 16 percent in September.  The performance of Singapore’s pharmaceutical industry is
volatile as production swings by companies such as  Sanofi-
Aventis SA  can cause  industrial output  to fluctuate from month
to month. Drug companies sometimes shut plants for cleaning
before making different products.  Singapore’s non-oil  exports  gained a seasonally adjusted
5.8 percent last month from September, when they fell a revised
4.7 percent, today’s report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  