-- Microfinance Companies in India Seek Emergency Funding; SKS Shares Plummet
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2010-11-16T11:03:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/sks-drops-as-indian-microfinance-firms-seek-emergency-funding-from-banks.html
India’s microfinance companies are
seeking emergency funding from banks after defaults jumped amid
a clampdown on lending practices, an industry group said.  SKS
Microfinance Ltd.  shares fell by a record.  The lenders are seeking 10 billion rupees ($221 million)
to set up an emergency “liquidity fund,”  Vijay Mahajan , head
of the Microfinance Institutions Network group, said in an
interview in New Delhi today. Loan recovery in Andhra Pradesh
state, their biggest market, has come to a standstill, he said.  Micro-lenders, which typically offer loans starting from
$100 to the poorest, have come under pressure after the state
capped interest rates they can charge and barred them from
coercing borrowers to repay debt to prevent suicides. SKS, the
lender backed by  George Soros , fell 11 percent to the lowest
level in Mumbai trading since its August trading debut.  “There have been a lot of negative views about
microfinance companies in the past few weeks” because of Andhra
Pradesh’s tightened norms,  D.K. Aggarwal , managing director and
chairman of SMC Wealth Management Services Ltd. in New Delhi,
said by telephone today. “As long as microfinance companies
have no strong regulation, confidence in them will remain low.”  Microfinance, which focuses on loans in poor areas largely
shut out from traditional banking services, gained prominence
globally when  Muhammad Yunus  won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2006
for his role in founding Bangladesh’s Grameen Bank.  India , where
more than 600 million people live on less than $1.50 a day,
is the world’s largest market for such loans.  Debt Pileup  Yet the nation’s micro-lenders have been criticized by law-
makers in recent months for offering loans without adequate
documentation and allowing borrowers to pileup debt. India
doesn’t have a nationwide system for tracking borrowers’ credit
histories, making it hard for lenders to check whether clients
have multiple loans.  Andhra Pradesh, which accounts for about 27 percent of
SKS’s loans, in mid-October passed  an order  that micro-lenders
can’t charge interest exceeding the principal on loans and can’t
use coercive measures to force borrowers to repay debt.  SKS, based in the state’s capital of Hyderabad, said in an
Oct. 23 statement its interest rates and lending practices
already meet those guidelines. Still, field operations including
holding village meetings have been disrupted in Andhra Pradesh
following the ordinance, the lender said on Nov. 9. The company
is seeking changes to the more “onerous aspects” of the new
rules, it said then.  SKS has also reduced interest rates to 24.55 percent in
Andhra Pradesh, and plans to lower it to 24 percent in that
state and in other markets, it said last week.  “The ordinance and its implementation will have material
impact on the company’s operations” in the state, SKS said in
its Nov. 9 statement to the exchange.  Stock Performance  Shares of SKS, which were sold for 985 rupees apiece in its
initial public offering, have dropped 19 percent since its
trading debut in August, compared with a 9.4 percent advance in
the nation’s benchmark Sensitive Index. Spokesman  Atul Takle 
declined to comment today.  The microfinance industry is now in talks with the Small
Industries Development Bank of India and  ICICI Bank Ltd.  to set
the emergency fund, Mahajan said today.  “It will particularly help smaller” lenders, he said.
“They will get saved because they don’t need big medicine.”  The microfinance companies serve the nation’s poorest,
ICICI Chief Executive Officer  Chanda Kochhar  said in an
interview in New Delhi today. While the industry needs to review
standards such as the amount of loans provided to each customer,
the lenders shouldn’t be constrained for funding, she said.  “As responsible banks, we can’t pull the plug,” Kochhar
said. “Banks are assessing the situation. However, the
momentary experience of one state is not reflective of how the
whole the situation is.”  Soros’s Quantum (M) Ltd. hedge fund owns a 0.4 percent
stake in SKS after the IPO, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ruth David  in New Delhi at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
 Siddharth Philip  in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  