-- Swiss Stocks Decline as UBS, Credit Suisse Retreat; Actelion Shares Rally
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2010-11-19T17:11:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/smi-benchmark-retreats-led-by-shares-of-transocean-holcim-syngenta.html
Stocks in Switzerland fell, trimming
a weekly gain for the benchmark Swiss Market Index, as investors
awaited details of Ireland’s bailout and China ordered its banks
to set aside larger reserves for the fifth time this year.  UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG, the largest Swiss banks,
declined. Syngenta AG surged 2 percent.  Actelion Ltd.  gained 0.8
percent, bringing the stock’s weekly rise to 12 percent, as
investors continued to speculate on a bid for the drugmaker from
Amgen Inc.  The  SMI  of the biggest and most actively traded companies
dropped 0.3 percent to 6,590.84 at the 5:30 p.m. close of
trading in Zurich. The gauge has still rallied 1.3 percent this
week as Ireland moved closer to accepting a rescue package which
the nation’s central bank says may be worth “tens of billions”
of euros. The broader Swiss Performance Index lost 0.2 percent
today.  “Investors are relieved that Ireland is discussing tens of
billions of loans, but euro-zone debt concerns will continue to
affect stock markets into the New Year,” said  Lars Knudsen ,
equities portfolio manager at LGT Capital Management Ltd. in
Pfaeffikon, Switzerland. ”A possible takeover by Amgen is still
boosting Actelion shares.”  Analysts at Credit Suisse cut their 12-month estimate for
the SMI to 7,300 from 7,450 in a research note e-mailed today.
That still suggests an 11 percent rally from current levels.  The new forecast reflects recent changes to price estimates
for nine  SMI  shares. Switzerland is still “an attractive
investment opportunity in the European space,” the analysts
wrote, while the region as a whole is “showing signs of
unease,” specifically “uncertainties posed by weak coalition
governments in Ireland, Spain, Portugal and Greece.”  Dublin Bailout  The cost of insuring European bank bonds rose on
speculation Irish lenders will be forced to restructure their
debt as part of an international bailout.  European Union, International Monetary Fund and European
Central Bank officials spent a second day in Dublin discussing a
possible bailout of the nation’s banks. The government already
pledged to impose losses on junior bondholders at Anglo Irish
Bank Corp. and Irish Nationwide Building Society.  China ordered banks to set aside larger reserves for the
fifth time this year, draining cash from the financial system to
limit inflation and asset-bubble risks in the world’s fastest-
growing major economy.  Cash Drain  The ratio will increase 50 basis points starting Nov. 29,
the central bank said on its website today. The aim is to step
up liquidity management and “appropriately control” credit and
loans, it said.  Speculation of an imminent increase in interest rates to
counter the nation’s fastest inflation in two years helped to
drive the biggest two-week decline in China’s benchmark stock
index since May. Officials are seeking to rein in the money
supply as the U.S. Federal Reserve’s expanded stimulus threatens
to spur capital flows into Asian economies.  UBS fell 1.6 percent to 16.44 Swiss francs, while Credit
Suisse lost 0.8 percent to 40.98.  Actelion climbed 0.8 percent to 56.45 francs. The drugmaker
could fetch as much as 9.7 billion Swiss francs ($9.8 billion),
according to analysts. An acquirer may pay about 70 francs per
share, according to the median of 7 analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. The range was 65 francs to 75 francs a share.  Biggest Purchase  An acquisition of the Allschwil, Switzerland-based company
would be the biggest purchase of a European biotechnology
company since Merck KGaA bought Serono SA for 10.3 billion euros
in 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Actelion gets
most of its sales from Tracleer, a drug to treat a lung
condition known as pulmonary arterial. Syngenta climbed 2
percent to 285.6 francs.  Sonova Holding AG  added 2.8 percent to 134.2 francs. Credit
Suisse analyst Christoph Gretler reiterated his “outperform”
rating after attending a roadshow with the management of the
hearing-aid maker.  Comet Holding AG  surged 5.5 percent to 189.5 francs after
saying it “is emerging stronger from the crisis” and intends
to double sales by 2013 to 300 million francs from 150.7 million
francs. The world’s biggest maker of industrial X-ray machines
confirmed its existing forecast for 2010 sales of 200 million
francs at an investor event today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Giles Broom  in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: David Merritt
at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 