-- Soros Reduces SPDR Gold Holdings, Invests in iShares
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2010-11-16T11:40:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/soros-cuts-gold-holdings-for-third-straight-quarter-as-paulson-holds-bet.html
George Soros , who’s described gold’s
surge as the “ultimate asset bubble,” cut his holding in the
 SPDR Gold Trust  in the third quarter, while investing in the
 iShares Gold Trust . Rival fund manager  John Paulson  kept his bet
in shares of SPDR Gold, maintaining the largest stake.  Soros Fund Management LLC sold 547,689 SPDR Gold shares as
of Sept. 30, according to a filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission yesterday. The disposal represented 10
percent of his holding, Bloomberg calculations show, and follows
sales in the first two quarters. He acquired 5 million shares in
the  iShares Gold Trust  valued at $64 million, the filing shows.  Gold has soared to a record this year as investors sought
protection against weaker currencies and a possible resurgence
of inflation. Soros, who made $1 billion breaking the Bank of
England’s defense of the pound in 1992, described gold as a
bubble in January, and said buying at the start of one is
rational. He cut the SPDR Gold stake by 24 percent since Dec. 31.  Soros “simply took profits after the rally,”  Tetsu Emori ,
a commodity fund manager at Tokyo-based Astmax Ltd., said today
by phone. “I don’t think he has changed his mind” as investors
are preparing to deal with inflationary pressure, he said.  Spot gold, which touched a record $1,424.60 an ounce on Nov.
9, has gained 24 percent this year and traded little changed at
$1,359.45 at 11:37 a.m. in London. Fund managers including
Paulson added the metal after the 2008 financial crisis shook
investors’ confidence in currencies. The SPDR Gold Trust is the
biggest exchange-traded fund backed by bullion.  Mindich Sells  New York-based Paulson & Co. maintained its 31.5 million
SPDR Gold Trust shares, or 7.4 percent of the U.S. exchange-
traded fund, as of Sept. 30, according to a filing yesterday.
 Eric Mindich ’s Eton Park Capital Management LP sold 2 million
shares in the period, a separate regulatory filing showed.  Money managers who oversee more than $100 million in
equities must file a Form 13F with the Securities and Exchange
Commission within 45 days of each quarter’s end to show their
U.S.-listed stocks, options and convertible bonds. The filings
don’t show non-U.S. securities or how much cash the firms hold.  Deutsche Bank AG is among banks forecasting more advances
for gold even after its rally. Precious metals were among the
“safest long positions,”  Michael Lewis , global head of
commodities research at Deutsche Bank, said last week. Gold may
soar to $3,800 an ounce within three years,  Myles Zyblock , chief
institutional strategist at RBC Capital Markets, said in October.  Three-Quarter Selloff  Soros Fund Management’s holding in SPDR Gold Trust shares
reached 6.2 million as of Dec. 31, 2009, according to an earlier
13F filing. With sales over the past three quarters, that’s been
reduced by 24 percent, Bloomberg calculations show. SPDR Gold is
the Soros Fund’s largest single holding in the SEC filing.  SPDR Gold Trust remained Paulson & Co.’s top holding as of
the end of September, valued at about $4 billion, compared with
$3.83 billion at the end of June. The New York-based firm sold
2.7 million depositary receipts in AngloGold Ashanti Ltd., its
second-largest holding, in the third quarter, the filing showed.  Mindich is a former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  partner who
began New York-based Eton Park in 2004 with $3.5 billion. SPDR
Gold shares were his second-largest equity holding in the third
quarter after the sale. Paulson has maintained 31.5 million SPDR
Gold shares since March 31, 2009, according to 13F filings.  Soros said that gold’s rally may continue, Reuters reported
in September, citing an interview. “I called gold the ultimate
bubble which means it may go higher but it’s certainly not safe
and it’s not going to last forever,” Soros was cited as saying.  Shumway, Third Point  Calls by Bloomberg News after normal office hours in New
York to the offices of  Mary Beth Grover  and  Michael Vachon , 
spokespeople for Eton Park and Soros respectively, were not 
immediately answered. Armel Leslie, a spokesman for Paulson,
declined to comment.  Separately, Shumway Capital Partners LLC, the $8.9 billion
hedge-fund firm run by  Chris Shumway , added 2.08 million SPDR
Gold shares as of Sept. 30. The new position represented about 6
percent of the firm’s portfolio shown in the filing.  Third Point LLC bought 115,000 shares in the trust in the
period, according to its filing, while Highfields Capital
Management LP said it acquired call options on 1.6 million
shares. A call option gives holders a right to buy underlying
stock or derivatives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chanyaporn Chanjaroen  in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Poole at 
 Jpoole4@bloomberg.net  