-- South African Rand's Rally Bolsters Chances of Reduction in Interest Rates
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-11-17T10:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/south-african-rand-s-rally-bolsters-chances-of-reduction-in-interest-rates.html
South Africa’s central bank will
probably cut its key interest rate tomorrow for the third time
this year as a rally in the rand keeps inflation in check and
erodes the competitiveness of exports.  The Pretoria-based Reserve Bank will lower the repurchase
 rate  by half a percentage point to 5.5 percent, according to 17
of 22 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. The rest expect the rate
to stay unchanged.  The rand has gained 34 percent against the dollar since the
start of 2009, cutting the cost of imports and helping to push
the inflation rate to the lowest in more than five years. The
currency’s advance has also damped manufacturing, which grew an
annual 1.4 percent in September, the slowest pace in 11 months,
fueling calls by labor unions for the central bank to do more to
spur growth and create jobs.  “The production figures were poor and give the impression
the economy just isn’t recovering” fast enough, said  Don Egginton , the London-based head of long-term analysis and
modeling at Daiwa Capital Markets Europe. The central bank “has
been rather negative on direct measures to weaken the rand, so
that leaves them with reducing interest rates.”  Companies such as Johannesburg-based  Anglo Platinum Ltd. 
and  Sasol Ltd. , which incur costs in rand and make dollar-
denominated sales, have said that the rand’s strength is eroding
their profit margins. Grain SA, a farmers group, said on Oct. 13
that the rally in the currency was hindering efforts to export a
4.5 million metric ton grain surplus.  Sales Growth Accelerates  The release of better-than-expected retail sales data today
may have detracted from the argument for a further rate cut,
said  Kevin Lings , an economist with Stanlib Asset Management in
Johannesburg.  Sales  growth accelerated to an annual 6.1 percent in
September from 4.6 percent the month before, the government
statistics agency said. The median estimate of 13 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was for 4.3 percent growth.  Inflation slowed to 3.2 percent in September, the lowest
since June 2005, and has remained within the central bank’s 3 to
6 percent target band since February. The Reserve Bank, which
has reduced the repurchase rate eight times since December 2008,
expects  inflation  to stay within the band until at least the end
of 2012.  End of Cycle  “There is no real reason for them not to cut rates,” said
 Rashaad Tayob , a fund manager at Cape Town-based Aeon Investment
Management. “They could cut again after this, but we are
getting close to the end of the cycle.”  A rate cut would narrow the differential with advanced
countries and ease pressure on the rand. South Africa’s
benchmark rate compares with rates of between zero and 0.25
percent in the U.S., 1 percent in countries using the  euro  and
0.1 percent in Japan.  South Africa, China and Brazil have criticized the U.S.
Federal Reserve for its latest round of monetary stimulus,
saying it will push more money into emerging markets,
strengthening their currencies and undermining exports.  The rate decision takes place against “a global backdrop
which adds downside risk to both the growth and the inflation
outlook,” said Adenaan Hardien, chief economist at Cape Town-
based Cadiz Asset Management.  Growth in South Africa slowed to an annualized 3.2 percent
in the second quarter from 4.6 percent in the previous three
months as mining exports slumped. In the mid-term budget
released on Oct. 27, the National Treasury said it expects the
economy to expand 3 percent this year.  Weak Growth  Weak growth pushed the  jobless rate  to 25.3 percent in the
second quarter, the highest of 62 countries tracked by
Bloomberg.  South Africa’s largest union for manufacturing workers
placed a half-page advertisement in a newspaper on Nov. 4
criticizing the government’s economic policy and calling for
more action to weaken the rand.  “The Treasury and Reserve Bank are failing to manage our
economy to promote growth and development,” the National Union
of Metalworkers of South Africa, which has more than 260,000
members, said in the advertisement published in the
Johannesburg-based Business Day.  Budget Deficit  The unions have called for a weaker rand, lower interest
rates and increased government spending.  Instead, the government aims to narrow the budget deficit
to 4.6 percent of gross domestic product in the year through
March 2012 from 5.3 percent this fiscal year.  A smaller shortfall would give “more space to the central
bank” to cut rates, according to Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan .  “Business would welcome lower interest rates,” he said in
an Oct. 27 interview in Cape Town. “It would be advantageous
for encouraging investment, it would be advantageous for the
exchange rate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 