-- Southern Sudanese in North Avoid Registering for Independence Referendum
-- B y   A l a n   B o s w e l l   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2010-11-16T11:04:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/southern-sudanese-in-north-avoid-registering-for-independence-referendum.html
Southern Sudanese in northern Sudan
are boycotting registration for the region’s independence vote
on Jan. 9 because they think the authorities in Khartoum will
rig the outcome, a spokesman for the south’s ruling party said.  Turnout yesterday for the first day of the two-week
registration was “extremely small” in the capital and high in
the south, a  United Nations  panel led by former Tanzanian
President  Benjamin Mkapa  said in an e-mailed statement.  “There is a great risk in the north that they will rig it,”
Yien Matthew Chol, a spokesman for the  Sudan People’s Liberation
Movement , said by phone today in Juba, Southern Sudan’s capital.
“It would be good that southerners there not register and vote.”  Under the terms of the referendum law, at least 60 percent
of registered voters must cast a ballot, with a majority voting
in favor, for the choice of independence to succeed. A high-
level of registration in the north now with a low turnout on
voting day may mean the threshold isn’t reached, officials in
the SPLM said.  The vote will test a 2005  peace accord , brokered by the
U.S., the U.K. and Norway, that ended a 21-year civil war
between the Muslim north and the oil-producing south, where
Christianity and traditional beliefs dominate. About 2 million
people died in the conflict and 4 million fled their homes.  The SPLM publicly is not discouraging registration in
northern Sudan and eight countries, including the U.S., Canada,
Australia and Kenya, where Southern Sudanese took refuge during
the war.  Talk of Separation  “Those in the north already know better than to try to vote
up there,” Chol said. “You can’t even talk of separation right
now in Khartoum.”  Rabie Abdel Ati, a spokesman for President  Umar al-Bashir ’s
ruling National Congress Party, said the SPLM was actively
discouraging people from registering.  “This kind of behavior from the SPLM makes it clear that
they don’t want those who would vote for unity; this is against
the peace agreement,” Abdel Ati said today in a telephone
interview in Khartoum. “The SPLM is terrorizing the southerners.
This is un-transparent and unjust.”  Other monitors said a lack of information about where the
registration centers were located was also responsible for the
low turnout.  “The turnout is very weak,” Al-Baqir Alafif Mukhtar, head
of the Khartoum-based  Al-Khatim Adlan Center for Enlightenment
and Human Development , which is monitoring the process, said
yesterday by phone. “It is clear that a large number of citizens
don’t know the locations of the registration centers.”  Oil Production  Southern Sudan accounts for as much as 80 percent of
Sudan’s 490,000 barrels of daily oil production. Sudan is sub-
Saharan Africa’s third-largest producer, according to the  BP
Statistical Review of World Energy .  U.S. President  Barack Obama , who has been pressing for
Sudan to hold the vote on schedule, is “extremely pleased”
that the registration has begun, White House Press Secretary
 Robert Gibbs  said yesterday in a statement. He said the start of
the registration is a “critical milestone.”  The majority of Southern Sudanese  favor independence , the
Washington-based National Democratic Institute said in an Oct.
20 report, based on 63 focus groups surveyed in 48 locations
from Feb. 5 to March 16.  A simultaneous referendum in the border region of Abyei to
decide whether it should be part of the north or the south is in
jeopardy, with the Khartoum authorities and the SPLM unable to
agree on who can vote.  The  Permanent Court of Arbitration  in The Hague, in a
ruling last year, set Abyei’s borders to the immediate area
around settlements of the Ngok Dinka people, who consider
themselves southerners, largely excluding Misseriya cattle-
herders who back the north.  In the U.S. statement, Gibbs said both parties in Sudan
“must urgently work to find an agreed-upon way forward for
Abyei in the interest of lasting peace.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Boswell  in Juba via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
 Maram Mazen  in Khartoum via Cairo at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 