-- South Korea Would Hold Some '22 World Cup Games in North Korea If Bid Wins
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   S o o k y u n g   S e o
-- 2010-11-17T11:43:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/south-korea-would-hold-some-22-world-cup-games-in-north-korea-if-bid-wins.html
South Korea proposed staging some
World Cup soccer matches in North Korea if it wins the right to
host sport’s most-watched tournament in 2022.  South Korea is competing against the U.S., Australia, Qatar
and Japan, with whom it co-hosted the 2002 edition. Soccer
governing body FIFA’s executive committee will announce its
decision on the 2018 and 2022 hosts Dec. 2. The matches in the
two countries were among disclosures contained in an assessment
of bidders for the 2018 and 2022 tournaments written by FIFA’s
technical panel and released today.  “The Korea Republic’s bid-hosting concept presents the
idea of holding some matches of the 2022 FIFA World Cup in Korea
DPR,” the report said.  It also said the U.S. bid lacks the necessary government
backing, and Qatar’s effort is hampered by its climate.
Temperatures there can reach more than 46 degrees centigrade
(115 degrees Fahrenheit).  North and South Korea, which have been divided since civil
war ended with a stalemate in 1953, have not discussed the
proposal, said Lee Jong Joo, a spokeswoman for South Korea’s
Unification Ministry in Seoul.  “The ministry may review this idea but we have to wait and
see how the relations between North and South Korea and the
government’s policy would change,” she said.  Rising Tensions  Tensions grew this year after a torpedo attack on a South
Korean warship killed 46 sailors. While South Korea said an
investigation proved North Korea launched the attack, the North
Koreans denied responsibility.  South Korea in May cut off most trade with North Korea and
banned citizens from traveling across the border. The two
countries held reunions between Oct. 30 and Nov. 5 of families
separated since the war out of what the South Korean government
called “humanitarian” concern.  North Korea qualified for this year’s World Cup in South
Africa, the first time in 44 years the communist nation played
at the tournament. It failed to win a match. South Korea made it
to the round of 16.  “We proposed this idea, hoping that soccer matches would
contribute to the peace on the Korean peninsula,” said Park
Kang Ho, an adviser to South Korea’s 2022 World Cup bid
committee. If selected, organizers will discuss the idea further
with FIFA and South Korea’s government, Park added.  The U.S. needs to get government backing for its bid, FIFA
said.  U.S. Experience  “FIFA’s legal risk appears to be medium,” the report
said. “The necessary government support has not been documented
as neither the government guarantees, the government
declaration, nor the government legal statement have been
provided in compliance with FIFA’s requirements.”  FIFA ’s inspection team said the U.S. government had
“considerable experience in supporting the hosting and staging
of major sports events and proven its willingness to make
material concessions. The U.S. government has “expressed its
intention” to enact necessary legislation by June 1, 2013, it
added.  U.S. bid committee Executive Director David Downs said all
of the government guarantees have been signed, but were modified
because of U.S. law.  “We have been in conversations with FIFA about this and
they are comfortable with the situation,” Downs said.  Qatar Climate  The U.S., which has budgeted $661.2 million to stage the
2022 World Cup and a warm-up event a year earlier, isn’t the
only candidate to have potential problems marked out.  Qatar’s suitability has been questioned in a number of
areas. The Gulf state has proposed spending $3 billion on air-
conditioned stadiums. That hasn’t stopped FIFA questioning the
wisdom of hosting sport’s most watched event in the desert.  “The fact the competition is planned in June/July, the two
hottest months of the year in this region, has to be considered
as a potential health risk for players, officials, the FIFA
family and spectators,” according to the report.  “You can air condition a stadium, but I don’t see how you
can air-condition an entire country,”  Chuck Blazer , a U.S.
official who’ll have a vote on where the competition is staged,
said in an article published by the Wall Street Journal.  In a statement in response to FIFA’s evaluation, the Qatar
bid said it recognized the concerns over climate.  ‘Air-Cooled Solutions’  “The precautions referred to in the report have already
been put in place with our proposed air-cooled solutions for
stadiums, training sites, fans zones and other outdoor areas,”
Hassan Al-Thawadi, chief executive of Qatar 2022, said in the
statement. “These are already operational in Qatar, and are
being further developed and rolled out in the coming years.”  Australia has secured the required government guarantees,
the report said. Still the inspection team noted a risk of
“reduction in TV income and, as a result, commercial revenue
from Europe and the Americas” if the competition is held there.  The Australia bid responded that “ the massive projected
growth in the Asian region would more than offset any reduced
revenue from Europe.”  The evaluation also raised concerns about the suitability
of two joint bids for the 2018 World Cup proposed by
Spain/Portugal and Netherlands/Belgium. FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  has said he isn’t in favor of joint offers and the
inspection team wrote that they “pose challenges” from an
operational perspective.  Those two bids are battling proposals from England and
Russia in an all-European competition to stage the World Cup
after Brazil in 2014.  Transport  Russia is trying to host the event for the first time. Its
lack of transport infrastructure was highlighted by the
committee.  England will have to suspend a national law that guarantees
that some sporting events including the World Cup are shown only
on free-to-air television because it “adversely affects the
free and unrestricted exploitation of media rights.”  The race to host the World Cup has been overshadowed by the
suspension of two of the 24 officials who decide where the
competition is staged. They were temporarily banned while FIFA
probes allegations that they told undercover reporters their
votes could be bought. FIFA’s ethics panel is scheduled to
announce its decisions on Nigeria’s  Amos Adamu  and Tahiti’s
Reynald Temarii tomorrow.  The panel is also investigating reports that Qatar’s 2022
bid committee may have colluded with the joint Spain/Portugal
offer for 2018.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 