-- Springsteen Opens the Vaults to Reveal Somber Secrets on `Promise': Review
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2010-11-16T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/springsteen-opens-the-vaults-to-reveal-somber-secrets-on-promise-review.html
Bruce Springsteen  leans on the hood
of a Ford convertible on the cover of his long-lost album “The
Promise,” out today. A dirt track stretches to the gray
horizon, heavy with ominous clouds.  The image aptly reflects the music.  “Born to Run” in 1975 opened with “Thunder Road” and
its declaration: “It’s a town full of losers and I’m pulling
out of here to win.”  Then came frustration. At the peak of his powers, “the
Boss” was caught in a dispute with his former manager Mike
Appel and effectively barred from the studio until 1977.  Springsteen and the E Street Band worked up more than 70
songs. Only 10 showed up on their next release, the downbeat
“Darkness on the Edge of Town” (1978). They stripped back the
wordy lyrics and ditched anything that didn’t fit the theme of
broken dreams and hearts.  In the three decades since, a few of the shelved numbers
were bootlegged, covered by others, played live or included on
rarity compilations. Now, we have 21 more on a double CD.  “ The Promise ” has an emotional title track, months in the
making: “When the promise was broken, I cashed in a few of my
dreams.” Referencing his earlier work, Springsteen laments
“Thunder Road, there’s something dyin’ on the highway
tonight.” This orchestral epic was too lush to fit the mood of
the Spartan “Darkness.”  Spector, Stax  “The Promise” features songs that are excellent, just not
in tune with “Darkness.”  Phil Spectorish  walls of sound
bolster “Gotta Get That Feeling”; Stax horns blare on “The
Brokenhearted”; 1960s pop fuels “Wrong Side of the Street”
and “Ain’t Good Enough for You.”  We also can hear his take on ecstatic love songs excluded
from “Darkness,” such as “Fire,” covered by the Pointer
Sisters, and “Because the Night,” recorded by  Patti Smith .  Only the original “Racing in the Street” -- a bloated jam
with harmonica and violin -- fails to impress. It was later
slowed to a beautiful ballad that sounds teasingly like it’s
going to explode with rock rage yet never quite does.  Those wanting to hear both versions of “Racing in the
Street” can invest in a box set that includes a new digital
remaster of “Darkness.”  The box also adds live videos of the material from 1976-
1978. Anyone who saw these shows or is familiar with bootlegs of
the excellent concerts from 1978, such as “Piece de
Resistance,” will know the gigs were joyous, making the
mournful “Darkness” all the more surprising and moving.  Less essentially, the box’s six hours of video include a
feature-length documentary by director  Thom Zimny , and a 2009
Asbury Park concert version of “Darkness” that will appeal
only to dedicated fans.  A more persuasive case can be made by downloading a track
like “Rendezvous.” It easily could have fit on “Born to
Run,” and still sounds fresh after years in the vaults.  “The Promise” is released today on Columbia, priced at
$14. Rating: ****.  The box set “The Promise: The Darkness on the Edge of Town
Story” is priced at about $85 for the DVD version or $100 for
the Blu-Ray. Rating: ***1/2.  “Born to Run” and “Darkness on the Edge of Town” are
available separately at about $7. Rating ****.  Download prices vary across services.  Information:  http://www.brucespringsteen.net   ( Mark Beech  writes for  Muse , the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Mark Beech  in London at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 