-- Sri Lanka's Central Bank Keeps Rates Unchanged, Expects No Move This Year
-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 2010-11-16T04:23:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/sri-lanka-central-bank-keeps-rates-unchanged-for-third-consecutive-month.html
Sri Lanka’s central bank kept its
benchmark interest rates unchanged for a third straight month to
support economic growth, and said it doesn’t expect to raise
borrowing costs this year.  The Central Bank of Sri Lanka left the  reverse repurchase
rate  at 9 percent, the lowest level since November, 2004, and
the  repurchase rate  at 7.25 percent, according to a statement on
the Colombo-based bank’s  website  today.  “We seem to have no real reason to make any changes right
now,” Governor  Ajith Nivard Cabraal  said in a Bloomberg
Television interview today. “It looks like” rates will remain at
this level going into 2011, he said.  Cabraal, who cut rates in July and August, refrained from
tightening monetary policy even as counterparts in India and
Australia raised borrowing costs this month to counter price
gains. Inflation in Sri Lanka is about half the average rate of
the five years through 2009, helped by a surge in farm output
after cultivation expanded following the end of a 26-year civil
war in May 2009.  “The central bank has room to keep rates low as inflation
remains subdued,”  Bimanee Meepagala , a Colombo-based analyst at
NDB Aviva Wealth Management Ltd., the nation’s biggest non-state
fund, said before the decision.  Consumer prices  in the capital, Colombo, rose 6.6 percent
in October from a year earlier. “Inflation is expected to remain
subdued at mid-single digits, on an annual average basis, by
end-year,” the central bank said in its statement today.  Import Taxes  Sri Lanka’s inflation is likely to end the year “very much
less than” 6 percent after import taxes on vegetable oils,
onions and potatoes were cut this month, central bank Deputy
Governor  Dharma Dheerasinghe  said Nov. 4.  The South Asian island isn’t showing signs of overheating
or experiencing inflation pressures like in India, Dheerasinghe
said. Sri Lanka’s interest rates are higher than its peers as it
didn’t lower borrowing costs as much as other countries during
the financial crisis, giving the central bank scope to handle a
“slightly higher” inflation rate without having to make any
policy change, Cabraal said today.  On Nov. 2, India’s central bank raised rates for the sixth
time in 2010 while Australia unexpectedly increased its
benchmark, ending a five-month pause. The Bank of Korea
increased interest rates for the second time this year today.  Sri Lanka’s $42 billion economy may  grow  as much as 8
percent in 2010, the central bank said Sept. 21, compared with
an earlier forecast for a 7 percent expansion.  Investment Boost  Faster economic growth is encouraging investments and
driving company earnings.  Heraymila Investments Ltd., which manages Saudi Arabian
entrepreneur  Abdulaziz Al Mashal ’s businesses, said Nov. 4 it
plans to raise at least 5 billion rupees ($45 million) for a
fund that will invest in listed companies in Colombo.  Sri Lanka’s consumer and corporate credit grew 12.8 percent
to 1.33 trillion rupees in August from a year earlier, faster
than July’s 8.9 percent gain. Credit granted by commercial banks
to the private sector rose 15.5 percent by September from a year
earlier, the central bank said today.  “Private sector credit has been moving upwards,” Cabraal
said. “The only real area that we are presently grappling with
is the inflows of foreign exchange, which has tended to
appreciate the rupee somewhat.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anusha Ondaatjie  in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at   sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  