-- Stock Futures Maintain Losses as Wholesale Costs Rise Less Than Estimated
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2010-11-16T13:35:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/stock-futures-maintain-losses-as-wholesale-costs-rise-less-than-estimated.html
U.S. stock futures maintained losses
after wholesale costs in the U.S. rose less than forecast in
October in a sign that limited demand is keeping a lid on
inflation.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring next
month lost 0.5 percent to 1,190.4 at 8:34 a.m. in New York. Dow
Jones Industrial Average futures declined 51 points, or 0.5
percent, to 11,122.  The producer price index climbed 0.4 percent from the prior
month, Labor Department figures showed. Economists projected a
0.8 percent rise in October, according to the median estimate in
a Bloomberg News survey. The so-called core measure, which
excludes volatile food and energy costs, decreased 0.6 percent,
the most since July 2006.  U.S. stocks and Treasuries declined yesterday as a group
including former Republican government officials, economists and
hedge-fund manager Cliff Asness urged Federal Reserve Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke to halt his expansion of monetary stimulus,
saying it risks an inflation surge. Fed Bank of New York
President William Dudley said in an interview with CNBC that the
central bank’s bond purchases won’t cause an inflation problem.  U.S. futures followed global equities lower earlier today 
amid concern China’s steps to cool inflation will slow the global
economic recovery.  Chinese Central Bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan today said
China is under “pressure” from capital inflows as a state
newspaper said price controls could be imposed to cool the
fastest inflation in two years.  The People’s Bank of China last month raised its benchmark
one-year lending rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 5.56
percent, the first increase since 2007. Chinese consumer prices
jumped 4.4 percent in October, the fastest pace in two years.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  