-- Striking Collahuasi Miners Ready to Lower Wage Demand, Union Leader Says
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2010-11-16T02:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/striking-collahuasi-miners-ready-to-lower-wage-demand-union-leader-says.html
Workers at  Anglo American Plc  and
 Xstrata Plc’s  Collahuasi copper mine in northern Chile will
lower their wage demands in government-mediated talks to end an
11-day strike if the company increases its proposal, union
leader Manuel Munoz said.  The union is awaiting a call from regional governor Luz
Ebensperger to initiate talks, Munoz said in an interview from
Iquique, Chile today. Collahuasi “is always open to dialog,”
company spokeswoman Bernardita Fernandez said by telephone.  “When we get back to negotiations I imagine both positions
will have to come closer,” Munoz said. “One side enlarges its
position and we reduce our position.”  The strike at the world’s fourth-largest copper mine helped
drive copper prices to a record last week. The company has
maintained its schedule of copper shipments during the strike by
using non-union employees and contract workers, Fernandez said.  Munoz said the union wouldn’t return to the negotiating
table before Nov. 19, when workers can return to work without
being fined by the union under Chilean law, Munoz said. Most
workers will remain loyal to the strike, he said.  “It would be a triumph for us, we would have won at each
stage,” he said. “Then we would be negotiating on equal
footing.”  Munoz said Collahuasi’s workers have the backing of the
workers of Codelco, the world’s largest copper producer owned by
the Chilean state, after a visit by their union leader  Raimundo Espinoza  today.  Espinoza came to Iquique to meet with Munoz and Cristian
Arancibia, the head of the Mining Federation that represents
large-scale private mining companies in Chile, to act together
in nationwide disputes, Munoz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Craze  in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  