-- Swaps on Property and Casualty Insurers Jump on Muni Selloff
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-11-16T23:02:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/swaps-on-property-and-casualty-insurers-jump-on-muni-selloff.html
The selloff in municipal bonds is
helping push the cost to protect the debt of property and
casualty insurers to the highest in more than a month.  Credit-default swaps on New York-based Travelers Cos. and
Chubb Corp. climbed to the highest since October. Municipal
securities account for 26 percent of the financial assets of
property and casualty insurers,  Hans Mikkelsen , credit analyst
at Bank of America Corp., wrote in a report yesterday.  “Some investors view P&C insurer CDS as hedges against
muni risk,” Mikkelsen wrote. The swaps gain value as investor
confidence in the companies’ ability to repay debt deteriorates.  Municipal bond prices are dropping amid a surge in
issuance. Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Municipal Income
Fund  has dropped 12.3 percent since Nov. 3, when the Federal
Reserve said it would undertake a round of quantitative easing,
known as QE2, by buying $600 billion in U.S. debt.  Yields on  top-rated tax-exempt  bonds due in 10 years
climbed to a four-month high as the market absorbed the  highest
weekly issuance  of municipal debt in at least seven years.
California led states and local governments issuing $16.3
billion this week.  The cost to protect Travelers jumped 7.4 basis points to
92.2, the highest since Oct. 6, according to data provider CMA.
Its investments in municipal debt were $41.4 billion as of Sept.
30, or 63 percent of the company’s fixed-maturity total,
according to an Oct. 21  regulatory filing . Swaps on Chubb, which
is based in Warren, New Jersey, climbed 8.3 basis points to 67.  Jennifer Wislocki , a spokeswoman for Travelers, didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment.  Mark Greenberg , a
spokesman for Chubb, declined to comment.  Municipal Holdings  Contracts on Boston-based Liberty Mutual Insurance Co.
increased 6.7 basis points to 130.6 and those on Allstate Corp.,
based in Northbrook, Illinois, gained 9.8 basis points to 87.6.  Travelers  said in July it was comfortable with its  holdings 
of municipal debt. Chief Investment Officer  Bill Heyman  said
Travelers has $7.2 billion in state general-obligation  bonds ,
with less than 5 percent of that sum in California, Illinois and
New York, which are among the governments facing the biggest
imbalances between spending and revenue.  “Our portfolio is strong, and we wouldn’t trade it for
anyone else’s,” Heyman said in a July conference call. “We
could certainly have losses in our municipal portfolio, maybe
even material losses. But even viewed through the prism of
recent events, we feel very comfortable with what we own.”  Warren Buffett , whose  Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  has been
trimming its investment in municipal debt this year, predicted
in June a “terrible problem” for the bonds in coming years.  Federal Government  “The question becomes will the federal government help,”
Buffett, 80, said at the U.S. Financial Crisis Inquiry
Commission in New York on June 2. “I don’t know how I would
rate them myself. It’s a bet on how the federal government will
act over time.”  The cost to protect U.S. corporate bonds, as measured by
the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, climbed to
the highest in almost three weeks amid concern Ireland will need
to tap international bailout funds.  The index, which investors use to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
1.1 basis points to a mid-price of 94.4 as of 5:29 p.m. in New
York, according to Markit Group Ltd. The benchmark ended Oct. 29
at 94.4 basis points.  Ireland is in talks with European and International
Monetary Fund officials about a bailout to shore up the state’s
finances as well as enable it to inject capital into the
country’s banks, said a European official with direct knowledge
of the talks.  Sprint Swaps  Credit-default swaps on  Sprint Nextel Corp.  jumped to the
highest in more than two months after Moody’s Investors Service
said yesterday it’s reviewing whether to cut its rating on the
third-largest U.S. mobile phone carrier. They rose 9.2 basis
points to 398.5, according to CMA.  Moody’s, which ranks the Overland Park, Kansas, company
Ba2, cited “weak, albeit slowly improving, operating
performance combined with a further deterioration in its
relationship” with Clearwire, according to a statement
yesterday.  Sprint has a 54 percent stake in Kirkland, Washington-based
wireless broadband operator Clearwire, which said Nov. 4 that it
didn’t have enough funding to keep operating, prompting investor
concern that a default could trigger a contract provision
pulling Sprint into default too.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  