-- King Predicts `Elevated' U.K. Inflation After Rate Breaches 3%
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-11-16T11:17:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/u-k-inflation-unexpectedly-rises-forcing-king-to-write-letter-to-osborne.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
said inflation will remain “elevated” throughout 2011 after it
unexpectedly accelerated in October, forcing him to write the
fourth letter of explanation to the Treasury this year.  “The committee is ready to adjust policy -- in either
direction -- in order to ensure that the risks to the outlook
for inflation in the medium term remain evenly balanced around
the 2 percent target,” King said in a letter to Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  released by the central bank today.  Consumer prices increased  3.2 percent  in October from a
year earlier, exceeding the median forecast of 3.1 percent in a
 Bloomberg News survey  and prompting King to write to Osborne
explaining why inflation is breaching the 3 percent limit.
Policy makers have split three ways on whether to raise  interest
rates  to curb prices or add stimulus to aid the recovery.  “With continued increases in the headline rate of
inflation well above target, the bank is facing an unenviable
communication challenge to try and explain why further easing
would be needed,” London-based Nomura International Plc
economist  Philip Rush  said in a telephone interview today. “We
expect inflation to peak at 3.7 percent in February next year
and start falling back.”  The pound rose as much as 0.3 percent after the data before
resuming its drop against the dollar. The currency traded at
$1.5996 as of 11:13 a.m. in London. The yield on the benchmark
two-year government bond was down 2 basis points today at 1.053
percent.  Gasoline, Games  Inflation accelerated because of increases in costs of
gasoline and diesel, overdraft charges and mortgage arrangement
fees, and computer games, the Office for National Statistics
said. The result exceeded the median forecast of 28 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey. On the month, prices increased by
0.3 percent.  Inflation has exceeded 3 percent this year in every month
apart from February. The central bank predicts that increases in
commodity costs and higher sales tax will keep the rate above
the 2 percent goal next year, masking underlying subdued price
pressures from the aftermath of the  recession .  Core inflation, which excludes costs of energy, alcohol,
food and tobacco, stayed at 2.7 percent in October. That
exceeded the median forecast of 2.6 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey of 14 economists.  Next Plc , the U.K.’s second-biggest clothing retailer, said
on Nov. 3 that selling prices will increase “at the top end”
of its previous prediction of 5 percent to 8 percent increases
in the first quarter as cotton costs climb.  ‘Substantial Risks’  “As you highlight, the prospects for inflation remain
highly uncertain, with substantial risks in both directions,”
Osborne wrote in a letter responding to King, noting that the
“range of views” among policy makers is “wider than usual.”  “I re-emphasize here that the MPC’s symmetric inflation
target ensures vigilance on both upside and downside risks,”
Osborne said.  The governor must write to the chancellor every three
months when the inflation rate deviates more than a point from
the central target in either direction. King wrote today that
the inflation “is likely to remain elevated throughout 2011”
and the rate “might rise further” in coming months.  Still, the bank’s “central view remains that spare
capacity within companies and in the labor market will continue
to put downward pressure on inflation,” he said. “The depth of
the recession means that a margin of spare capacity is likely to
persist for some while.”  Economic Recovery  The economy’s recovery has still shown signs of maintaining
momentum.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.8 percent in the third
quarter, twice the pace forecast by economists. King said last
week that economic growth will exceed its historical average
“for much of the forecast period.”  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee on Nov. 4 kept
its bond-purchase plan at 200 billion pounds ($320 billion) and
its  interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent. In October,
 Andrew Sentance  called for higher interest rates to combat
inflation, while  Adam Posen  pushed for more stimulus to sustain
the recovery. Minutes of this month’s decision are due tomorrow.  King, Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  and Chief
Economist  Spencer Dale  will testify on the economy to lawmakers
in the House of Lords, Parliament’s upper chamber, at 3:30 p.m.
in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  