-- U.K. to Pay Guantanamo Detainees Over Claims They Were Tortured in Jail
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-11-16T16:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/u-k-to-pay-guantanamo-detainees-over-claims-they-were-tortured-in-jail.html
The U.K. government will pay money
to a number of people who were held by the U.S. at Guantanamo
Bay in Cuba and allege they were tortured with the knowledge of
British intelligence officers.  “We’ve paid up the money so we can move on,” Justice
Secretary  Ken Clarke  told lawmakers in Parliament today. He
refused to say how much money would be paid, or to how many
people, and defended the payments as saving intelligence
officers’ time and money. “It could have taken years, it could
have cost tens of millions of pounds,” he said.  ITV News reported that at least seven former detainees are
to get payments totaling millions of pounds. At least one will
receive more than 1 million pounds ($1.6 million), ITV said. It
named the men as Binyam Mohamed, Bishar Al Rawi,  Jamil El Banna ,
Richard Belmar,  Omar Deghayes , Moazzam Begg and Martin Mubanga.
They have said the U.K. government knew they were being tortured
and did nothing to prevent it.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  told Parliament on July 6 that
there will be an inquiry into claims Britain was complicit in
torture, and said compensation should be paid to victims. His
spokesman  Steve Field  told reporters that today’s announcement
represented “a settlement -- we’re not accepting culpability.”  Any admission of complicity in torture will embarrass
Labour Party politicians including former Prime Minister  Tony Blair  and former Foreign Secretary  David Miliband , who have
previously insisted Britain has no need to apologize. Cameron’s
Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats ousted Labour from power
after the May 6 election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 