-- U.K. Author Shadrake Gets Six Weeks in Jail, Fine for Singapore Contempt
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2010-11-16T06:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/u-k-author-shadrake-gets-six-weeks-in-jail-fine-for-singapore-contempt.html
Alan Shadrake, the British author
convicted of  contempt of court  for disparaging Singapore’s
judiciary, was sentenced to six weeks in jail and fined S$20,000
($15,380), a record sentence for the crime in the city-state.  Shadrake, 76, was also ordered to pay S$55,000 in costs to
the prosecution by Singapore High Court Judge Quentin Loh. He
was released until Nov. 24 to decide whether he wants to appeal
the decision.  The writer accused Singapore’s courts of succumbing to
political influences and favoring the rich over the poor in his
book “Once a Jolly Hangman: Singapore’s Justice in the Dock.”
The book contained “half-truths and selective facts; sometimes
even outright falsehoods,” Loh said in his Nov. 3 verdict.  “I still believe in what I said,” Shadrake told reporters
after the sentencing today, wearing a navy blue open-neck shirt, 
beige jacket and cream-colored trousers. He’s working on a second
edition of the book that will correct a “misuse of the word
’judiciary’ which was careless on my part,” he said.  The prosecution had sought a jail term of at least 12 weeks
because of Shadrake’s “continued defiance” and allegations of
“the worst possible kind” against the judiciary.  Shadrake had no intention of undermining the city’s
judiciary and ought to be censured instead of jailed or fined,
his lawyer M. Ravi said at a Nov. 9 hearing.  ‘Reckless Disregard’  Loh said in sentencing Shadrake today that he had shown a
“reckless disregard for the truth,” a “tendency to distort
his sources for his own purposes,” and that an average reader of
his book would be “likely to believe his contemptuous
remarks.”  He also said Shadrake made his situation worse in an
 interview  with the Guardian newspaper last week in which he said
Singapore’s authorities had “over-reacted” and were “going to
regret they ever started this.”  Loh said he gave Shadrake a discount on the sentence to
signal the court has no interest in stifling debate on the death
penalty. The sentence exceeds that of Tan Liang Joo, who was
jailed for 15 days in November 2008 for wearing a t-shirt to
court with a picture of a kangaroo dressed as a judge.  Shadrake and Ravi wore badges with the number 2, which
Shadrake said were a call for second chances for people on death
row in Singapore.  Shadrake said the jail term was about what he expected, but
that he had expected a higher fine. Ravi said in court that
Shadrake “doesn’t even have S$2,000” with which to pay the
fine. Loh said Shadrake will serve an extra two weeks in jail if
he defaults on the fine.  The case is Attorney-General vs Alan Shadrake OS720/2010 in
the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simeon Bennett  in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrea Tan  in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net . 