-- S&P 500 Drops Most Since August on Concern Over Irish Debt, China Growth
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-11-16T21:28:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/u-s-stock-index-futures-decline-alcoa-freeport-fall-in-european-trading.html
U.S. stocks sank, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to the biggest slump since August,
amid concern that the debt crisis in Ireland and Greece is
worsening and that China will act to slow its economy.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.  and Nucor Corp. fell at
least 3.5 percent as metals plunged. Travelers Cos. dropped 3.6
percent, leading losses in the Dow Jones Industrial Average as
it slipped below 11,000 for the first time in a month, after
declines in municipal bonds hurt its investments.  Regions
Financial Corp.  slumped 4.5 percent after three executives
overseeing risk and souring assets at the bank quit.  The  S&P 500  decreased 1.6 percent to 1,178.34 at 4 p.m. in
New York. The drop follows a late-day selloff yesterday
triggered by growing criticism of the Federal Reserve’s plan to
spur growth using a technique called quantitative easing. The
Dow fell 178.47 points, or 1.6 percent, to 11,023.50. The MSCI
World Index of shares in 24 developed nations slumped for a
seventh straight day, the longest losing streak since January.  “It will be a choppy ride before we find some footing,”
said  Burt White , who helps oversee $284 billion as chief
investment officer at LPL Financial Corp. in Boston. “The
market is really trying to get its arms around a few lingering
questions -- China, Europe, or whether or not QE2 is going to
work or if it’s even necessary.”  Restraining Prices  The S&P 500 slid to the  lowest  level since Oct. 20 after
the China Securities Journal reported that the country will
introduce measures to control rising food prices in the world’s
fastest-growing major economy. Equities extended losses as
Austria threatened to block its next transfer of financial
rescue funds to Greece.  The Fed has begun a second round of quantitative easing,
known by investors as QE2, with plans to buy as much as $600
billion of Treasuries in coming months to lower long-term
interest rates and boost the economy.  Fed Bank of Boston President  Eric Rosengren  said today in
an interview with Bloomberg News that he expects the central
bank to buy the entire $600 billion of Treasuries authorized
Nov. 3, while St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said there’s
a possibility that all of the purchases may not be needed or the
Fed could even add to the easing program.  On U.S. stock exchanges, 5.7 companies fell for each that
rallied, the most since Oct. 19, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. Declines in the 10 main S&P 500 industries  ranged 
between 2.2 percent for raw-material companies and 1.1 percent
for consumer staples.  Freeport, Nucor  Freeport, the largest publicly traded copper producer,
slumped 4.3 percent to $97.61. Nucor, the biggest U.S.
steelmaker, sank 3.5 percent to $37.97.  Stocks also fell on growing concern that Europe’s debt
crisis is worsening.  Ireland is in talks with European and International
Monetary Fund officials about a bailout that would enable it to
inject capital into the country’s banks, said a European
official with direct knowledge of the talks. The two-part
funding package would mean Ireland wouldn’t have to tap the bond
market for an extended period as it tries to cut the budget
deficit, said the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity.  “Concern about China tightening and the Ireland debt
situation is hitting sentiment big-time,” said  Michael Mullaney , who helps manage $9.5 billion at Fiduciary Trust Co.
in Boston. “We’re in the middle of a pullback.”  Austria Threat  Stocks extended declines as Austria threatened to block its
next transfer of rescue funds to Greece unless the government
gets a deficit-cutting plan back on track.  “We are getting indications that the Greeks can’t stick to
their plan in a sufficient manner, in particular on the revenue
side,” Finance Minister  Josef Proell  said, according to a
government e-mail that confirmed remarks made after a cabinet
meeting today. “The data we have at the moment doesn’t give any
reason to approve the December tranche from the Austrian point
of view.”  Travelers  sank 3.6 percent to $54.73 after a selloff in
municipal bonds. The New York-based insurer held municipal debt
valued at $41.4 billion at the end of third quarter.  Regions Financial  dropped 4.5 percent to $5.92. The lender
said Chief Risk Officer  Bill Wells  resigned. The Birmingham,
Alabama-based company also said  Michael Willoughby , director of
credit risk, retired and  Tom Neely , head of problem asset
management, left the company. Chief risk officer duties are
being divided between  Barb Godin  and John Haley.  Wal-Mart, Home Depot  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  rose 0.6 percent to $54.26 after the
world’s largest retailer reported a 9.3 percent gain in third-
quarter profit as growth abroad helped make up for sales
declines at U.S. stores.  Home Depot Inc.  advanced 1 percent to $31.71 after
reporting third-quarter profit that topped analyst estimates and
increasing its earnings forecast for the year after curbing
expenses.  U.S. closed-end funds fell the most in five months as a
weeklong selloff in stocks and bonds convinced buyers they were
paying too much for the assets that underlie the investment
products.  The  S-Network Composite Closed-End Fund Index  lost 1.7
percent, the biggest retreat since June 4 and its seventh day of
declines, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  John Hancock
Investors Trust  dropped 6.3 percent, the most since Nov. 21,
2008, and Pimco Corporate Income Fund fell 3.7 percent, the
biggest decrease since May 6.  Closed-end mutual funds, unlike their open-ended
competitors, sell common shares to investors that are publicly
traded on exchanges and often borrow to boost returns. The
tumble over the last week reflected declines in their  holdings 
as well as a widening discount in the funds’ market price
compared with the value of the assets they own.  “It’s like a fire spreading,” said  Richard A. Barone ,
chairman of Cleveland-based The Ancora Group Inc. which manages
about $3 billion. “There’s a general sense that risk is coming
back into to certain areas of the bond market, and perhaps that
we’ve come to the end of the line in terms of interest rates
coming down. So there’s profit-taking going on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 