-- Factory Production in U.S. Climbed by the Most in Three Months in October
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-11-16T21:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/u-s-factory-production-rose-by-most-in-three-month-in-october.html
American industry churned out more
automobiles, computers and appliances in October, keeping
manufacturing at the head of the economic recovery that began
more than year ago.  Factory  production  rose 0.5 percent after a 0.1 percent
increase in September that was previously reported as a drop,
according to figures today from the Federal Reserve. Another
report showed wholesale prices rose less than forecast last
month, restrained by a plunge in costs for 2011 car models.  Exports  and business investment may keep assembly lines
busy in coming months, just as the initial spark from the need
to rebuild inventories wanes. Increases in global demand that
are benefiting companies like  General Electric Co . gave American
consumers time to repair finances and resume spending, leading
to a more balanced recovery.  “We’re starting to see upward momentum,” said  Jim O’Sullivan , global chief economist at MF Global Ltd. in New
York. “The data are consistent with growth reaccelerating in
the fourth quarter.”  Stocks dropped as investors grew concerned the debt crisis
in Ireland and Greece was worsening, and that China will take
additional steps to cool inflation and slow the rebound in
global growth that is helping American manufacturers prosper.
The Standard & Poor’s  500 Index  fell 1.6 percent to 1,178.34 at
the 4 p.m. close in New York. Treasury securities rose, sending
the yield on the benchmark 10-year note down to 2.84 percent
from 2.96 percent late yesterday.  Wholesale Prices  Producer prices climbed 0.4 percent in October from the
prior month, figures from the Labor Department showed. The
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
projected a 0.8 percent advance.  The cost of a new car dropped 3 percent in October, the
biggest decline in more than four years. The Labor Department
every year adjusts car prices for what it determines is the
value of improvements to new models. The decline last month
indicates new vehicles were outfitted with better equipment or
more options, while manufacturers kept price adjustments to a
minimum.  A report tomorrow may show the cost of living rose 0.3
percent in October, led by rising energy expenses, according to
economists surveyed. Excluding food and fuel, so-called core
prices increased 0.1 percent last month and were up 0.7 percent
since October 2009, the smallest year-over-year  gain  since 1961.  Fed Action  Fed policy makers have said 1.7 percent to 2 percent
inflation is consistent with achieving legislative mandates for
maximum employment and stable prices. The figures underscore the
central bank’s decision this month to purchase another $600
billion in assets to help spur growth and reduce the risk of
deflation, or a prolonged drop in prices.  Other reports today showed homebuilders were less
pessimistic this month and global demand for U.S. assets, like
stocks and bonds, cooled less than forecast in September.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
 confidence index  increased to a five-month high of 16 from a
revised 15 in October that was weaker than initially reported,
the Washington-based group said. Index readings lower than 50
mean more respondents said conditions were poor than good.  Net  foreign buying  of long-term equities, notes and bonds
totaled $81 billion in September compared with net buying of
$128.7 billion in August, the Treasury Department reported.  Gary Thayer , chief macro strategist at Wells Fargo Advisors LLC in
St. Louis, was among economists that said the figures showed
U.S. assets remained attractive to foreign investors.  Drop in Utilities  The Fed’s production report showed total output was little
changed as milder temperatures than normal caused utility use to
drop by the most in six months.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected total industrial
production would increase 0.3 percent after a 0.2 percent
decline for September, according to the median of 78 forecasts.
Estimates ranged from no change to a gain of 0.7 percent.  Capacity utilization , which measures the amount of a plant
that is in use, was unchanged at 74.8 percent last month, the
production report showed. The gauge averaged 80 percent over the
past 20 years, indicating there’s enough spare plant equipment
and space to prevent bottlenecks that would lead prices higher.  Carmakers increased output by 1.6 percent last month after
little change in September.  Auto sales  in October reached a 12.3 million annual pace,
the highest in more than year, according to industry data issued
earlier this month.  ‘Good Harbinger’  “That’s a good harbinger of the economy starting to move
forward,”  Ken Czubay , Ford Motor Co.’s U.S. sales chief, said
on a Nov. 3 conference call with analysts. “It’s good to see
the industry nudging forward.”  Foreign sales are also a bright spot. Exports in September
rose to the highest level in two years, according to Commerce
Department data released Nov. 10.  General Electric Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt 
last week appointed Vice Chairman  John Rice  to accelerate a push
to bolster exports and expand partnerships in countries like
China and India that are modernizing infrastructure to foster
faster economic growth.  “The growth in the next decade or decades that’s going to
take place will be quite robust in places like China and
India,” Immelt said Nov. 9 in Beijing. GE is based in
Fairfield, Connecticut.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  