-- U.S. Rating Not Under Pressure This Year or Next, Moody's Says
-- B y   D e n n i s   F i t z g e r a l d   a n d   D e i r d r e   B o l t o n
-- 2010-11-16T12:54:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/u-s-credit-rating-not-under-pressure-this-year-or-next-moody-s-hess-says.html
The U.S. Aaa rating won’t be under
pressure this year or next from record budget  deficits ,
according to Moody’s Investors Service Inc.  The current level of government debt is still
unsustainable, and “something needs to be done” over the long
term, said  Steven Hess , senior credit officer at Moody’s in New
York, in an interview with  Deirdre Bolton  on Bloomberg
Television’s “InsideTrack.”  Treasuries and stocks slid yesterday after reports that
Moody’s said a permanent extension of the tax cuts first enacted
under former President  George W. Bush  would have a negative
implication for the U.S. sovereign debt rating. Hess said
yesterday in an interview with Bloomberg News that such a
permanent extension won’t lead to a downgrade.  Implementing a plan from leaders of President Barack
Obama’s commission to reduce the federal deficit would safeguard
the nation’s credit rating, Hess wrote in a report yesterday.  The commission proposed on Nov. 10 a $3.8 trillion deficit-
cutting plan to trim Social Security and Medicare costs, reduce
income-tax rates, increase the gasoline tax and eliminate tax
breaks, including the mortgage-interest deduction, among other
measures. It would reduce the annual deficit from $1.3 trillion
this year to about $400 billion by 2015 and lead to reducing the
$13.7 trillion national debt.  Debt Reduction Plan  The plan was announced in Washington by debt commission co-
chairmen  Erskine Bowles , a Democrat who served as a White House
chief of staff to President  Bill Clinton , and former Senator
 Alan Simpson , a Wyoming Republican.  Democratic House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  called the targeting
of Social Security and Medicare “simply unacceptable,” and
Republican Representative  Jeb Hensarling  of Texas expressed
opposition to proposals to raise taxes.  The White House budget office projects the federal deficit
this year will exceed $1.5 trillion, or 10.6 percent of gross
domestic product, and will remain as high as $751 billion, or
3.9 percent of GDP, in five years.  “Certainly over time, and I’m not talking about this year
or next, but over the medium term and the long term the debt
trajectory such as it’s laid out in official projections at this
time, could put pressure on the Aaa rating eventually,” Hess
said in the Bloomberg TV interview.  An Aaa rating is the highest credit rating Moody’s gives
and signals “minimal credit risk,” according to the New York-
based company’s  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dennis Fitzgerald at 
 dfitzgerald5@bloomberg.net ;
 Deirdre Bolton  at 
 dbolton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  