-- U.S. Earns Blame for Trade Mess: Uri Dadush and Moises Naim
-- B y   U r i   D a d u s h   a n d   M o i s e s   N a i m
-- 2010-11-16T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/u-s-earns-blame-for-trade-mess-uri-dadush-and-moises-naim.html
Following the slim pickings in
Seoul, the U.S. may soon have to choose between making hard
decisions concerning its tax and spending policies or
endangering a pillar of its post-war prosperity: the open,
rules-based trading system which has served it so well.  Focusing on the link between America’s fiscal mess and the
health of the international trading system will come as a
surprise to those who think that the main forces imperiling
world trade are German or Chinese policies. From their
perspective China’s policies -- and especially a currency kept
artificially low by the government -- are forcing other
countries to react in kind, either by devaluing their own
currency or adopting even blunter instruments that impair trade.  Also, from their perspective, Germany’s refusal to
stimulate its domestic demand is placing strain on all its
trading partners, especially the debt-stricken countries in the
European periphery. In the process the global trading system is
filling with frictions that could severely undermine its smooth
functioning.  And yes, there is no doubt that both Germany and China can
do more to support world growth, though in fairness, China’s
dynamism and massive stimulus during the darkest days of the
crisis have already done so more than any other country.  But getting the U.S.’s policies right and its fiscal house
in order is more important for sustained growth domestically and
in the rest of the world than anything that can be done by China
and Germany, economies that are respectively one-third and one-
quarter the size.  Big Spenders  America’s exhortations for other countries to do more to
rebalance the global economy (read “spend more!”) tend to
gloss over the fact that the U.S. was, after all, responsible
for the biggest consumption and construction binge in history
and has enacted tax cuts it couldn’t afford. Americans know
this, of course, but that doesn’t make their Group of 20 sermons
any more persuasive.  America’s calls for other countries to mend their ways --
namely, to stop  saving  so much -- are made with two related
objectives in mind. The most pressing is to help offset weak
demand in the U.S. This is an issue on which the U.S. is almost
in a panic because, alone among the advanced countries, its
safety nets are pitifully weak while its  unemployment rate  is
stuck near the highest levels since World War II.  Yet, even as Washington preaches stimulus abroad, a
gridlocked Congress is incapable of agreeing on continuing with
fiscal stimulus or on temporarily extending the Bush-era tax
cuts. Without action on these fronts, the U.S. could be
confronted with a stimulus in reverse in 2011 amounting to about
3 percent of gross domestic product.  Washington’s Role  Washington’s other objective is to keep its  current account
deficit , which has come down to around 3 percent of GDP, from
surging again once the recovery takes hold. Too bad, then, that
politically gridlocked Washington has done nothing so far to
confront the many structural weaknesses that account for the
U.S.’s dismally low national savings rate.  What would this take? For example, legislators would need
to ensure that once the crisis abates, the U.S. will adopt a
consumption tax in the form of a value-added tax and a much
higher gasoline tax, drop the mortgage-interest tax credit, pay
Social Security and Medicare as a function of need and not just
of age, extend the retirement age, and curtail defense and other
spending. Many of these measures are included in proposals by
the co-chairmen of the Federal Deficit Reduction Commission.  We aren’t naïve. We know how politically toxic these
measures are, and are aware that congressmen steer as far away
from them as possible. But adopting them will only put the U.S.
roughly on a par with what other advanced countries are doing.
Moreover, enacting these long-term reforms would reassure
markets and provide the fiscal space for helping the long-term
unemployed and strapped local authorities in 2011.  Fed’s Role  But none of this is happening, leaving the Federal Reserve
as the only game in town. With overnight  interest rates  at zero,
enter quantitative easing, alias QE2.  Unfortunately, the combination of looser monetary policy
and tighter fiscal policy is a recipe for a lower dollar, and is
the opposite of what the rest of the world is looking for from
the world’s reserve  currency  at a time of great concern about
exchange rate and trade frictions. Emerging economies are
already in a panic over a wall of hot money that is advancing on
them.  The way Washington’s actions are seen by its partners
should hold no mystery. The push for global rebalancing and
current account targets, the president’s goal of doubling
exports, quantitative easing, calls on countries to stop
intervening in currency markets add up to only one thing -- a
lower dollar.  The U.S. Congress’s inability to agree on appropriate
fiscal measures to help people who elected them is regrettable,
but it shouldn’t have to result in global currency and trade
wars.  ( Uri Dadush  and  Moises Naim  are associates at the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace. Dadush is a former director
of international trade at the World Bank and Naim is a former
editor-in-chief of Foreign Policy magazine. The opinions
expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers of this column:
Uri Dadush at  udadush@ceip.org ;
Moises Naim at  mnaim@ceip.org   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  