-- U.S. Homebuilder Confidence Index Increases for Second Consecutive Month
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-11-16T17:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/u-s-homebuilder-confidence-index-increases-for-second-consecutive-month.html
Confidence among U.S. homebuilders
improved for a second month in November, a sign residential
construction may hold at depressed levels.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
 confidence index  increased to a five-month high of 16 from a
revised 15 in October that was weaker than initially reported,
data from the Washington-based group showed today. A reading of
17 was the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  Residential construction may take years to recover to pre-
recession levels as foreclosures stay elevated and depress
prices by adding to inventory.  Housing demand  is also being
restrained by unemployment near 10 percent, even as mortgage
rates hover near record lows.  “Unfortunately for builders, there is a massive supply
overhang of existing homes which will present brutal competition
to the new-home market in the foreseeable future,”  Joshua Shapiro , chief U.S. economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc. in
New York, said in an e-mail to clients. “While the summer
readings overstated the gloom, conditions nonetheless remain
very poor.”  Index readings lower than 50 mean more respondents said
conditions were poor. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 48
economists ranged from 15 to 18. The measure reached a record
low of 8 in January of last year and averaged 54 in the five
years before the recession began in December 2007.  The builders group’s index of current single-family home
 sales  held at 16 in November, and the measure of sales
expectations for the next six months rose to 25 from 23. The
gauge of  buyer traffic  increased to 12 from 11.  Confidence by Region  The measure of builder confidence rose in two of four U.S.
regions, led by a five-point gain in the Midwest and a three-
point increase in the West. The gauge of sentiment was unchanged
at 18 in the  South  and fell three points in the Northeast to 13.  “Many builders are reporting that while the quantity of
buyer traffic through their model homes has not improved
dramatically, the quality of that traffic seems to be getting
better -- meaning that more people appear to be serious about
buying in the near future,” NAHB Chairman Bob Jones, a
homebuilder from Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, said in a
statement.  Home seizures in the U.S. fell 9 percent in October from
the previous month, the biggest decline in a year, as state
attorneys-general began a nationwide probe into lender
foreclosure practices, according to RealtyTrac Inc. on Nov. 11.
Foreclosure filings, which also include default and auction
notices, fell 4 percent from the prior month and were little
changed from a year earlier.  Repossessions Halted  Bank of America Corp., the largest U.S. lender, has
temporarily halted repossessions nationwide as it reviewed
processes, while JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Ally Financial Inc.’s
GMAC unit froze home seizures in states where courts oversee
foreclosures.  Work began on 598,000 homes at an  annual pace  in October,
down from 610,000 in September, according to the median forecast
of economists surveyed before a Commerce Department report
tomorrow.  Housing starts plunged to a record-low 477,000 pace in
April 2009 after reaching a three-decade high of 2.27 million in
January 2006. They rose to a 685,000 level in April this year,
thanks to an $8,000 tax credit that expired that month.  Mortgage rates at  record lows  may help boost demand for
housing. The rate for a 30-year fixed rate loan fell to 4.17
percent, a record low, last week as the Federal Reserve began a
program to buy up to $600 billion in debt through June to boost
growth.  ‘Challenging’ 2011  D.R. Horton Inc. , the second-largest U.S. homebuilder by
revenue, expects 2011 to be “challenging” for the industry as
consumer confidence and employment remain weak, Chief Executive
Officer  Donald Tomnitz  said Nov. 12.  The company’s home sales and closing volume probably will
fall from this year, Tomnitz said on an earnings conference
call. In 2011, the spring selling season, the strongest for
builders, may fail to bring the traditional boost in demand, he
said.  “I don’t see much on the horizon that would give anybody a
great degree of comfort on the financial condition of the
country,” Tomnitz said. “I just don’t see a lot of hope for a
great spring market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 