-- U.S. Producer Prices Rose 0.4% in October; Core Rate Fell 0.6%
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-11-16T13:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/u-s-october-producer-prices-rose-0-4-fell-0-6-excluding-food-energy.html
Wholesale costs in the U.S. rose
less than forecast in October, reflecting declines in prices of
cars, trucks and computers that shows limited demand is keeping
a lid on inflation.  The producer price  index  climbed 0.4 percent from the prior
month, Labor Department figures showed today in Washington.
Economists projected a 0.8 percent rise in October, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The so-called
core measure, which excludes volatile food and energy costs,
decreased 0.6 percent, the most since July 2006.  Companies have little scope to raise prices to recoup
higher commodity costs as the expansion has cooled from the
first half of 2010 and unemployment is stuck near 10 percent.
The figures underscore the Federal Reserve’s decision this month
to purchase another $600 billion in assets to help spur growth
and reduce the risk of deflation, or a prolonged drop in prices.  “Wage pressure is very little and this has only limited
potential for boosting price levels,” said Robert Dye, a senior
economist at PNC Financial Services Group Inc. in Pittsburgh,
who correctly forecast the gain in the PPI. “If you look at
specific sectors like commodities, we are seeing some
inflation.”  Producer prices were projected to rise 0.8 percent,
according to the median of 76 forecasts in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Estimates  ranged from gains of 0.4 percent to 1.4
percent, after a 0.4 percent rise in September.  Excluding volatile food and energy costs, economists in the
survey had forecast a 0.1 percent gain for a third month.  Stock Futures  Stock-index futures maintained losses and Treasury
securities rose after the report. Futures on the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index expiring next month dropped 0.5 percent to
1,190.3 at 8:48 a.m. in New York. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note, which moves inversely to price, fell to 2.90
percent from 2.96 percent late yesterday.  New car prices dropped 3 percent in October, the biggest
decline since July 2006. Prices of light trucks decreased 4.3
percent, the most since October 2006.  Today’s report included the Labor Department’s valuation of
quality changes in 2011 model vehicles. The decline in prices
for October indicates new vehicles were outfitted with better
equipment or more options, while manufacturers kept price
adjustments to a minimum.  Compared with a year earlier, companies paid 4.3 percent
more for goods last month after a 4 percent rise in September.  Core PPI  Excluding food and energy, wholesale prices climbed 1.5
percent in the 12 months ended in October, following a 1.6
percent year-over-year gain the prior month. The survey median
called for an increase of 2.1 percent.  The cost of food decreased 0.1 percent, while energy prices
rose 3.7 percent.  Expenses for intermediate goods rose 1.2 percent from the
prior month and were up 6.4 percent from a year earlier, today’s
report showed.  Prices of crude goods, or materials used at the earliest
stage of the production process, increased 4.3 percent, the most
since January.  The costs of finished computers and equipment dropped 1.1
percent in October.  Inflation is decelerating after the world’s largest economy
grew at a 2 percent or less annual pace over the past two
quarters, less than the Fed’s long-term estimate. It expanded
3.7 percent in the first three months of the year.  Fed’s Preference  The Fed’s preferred gauge for consumer prices, which
excludes food and energy, rose 1.2 percent in September from a
year earlier, the slowest pace since 2001. Fed policy makers
have a long-run goal of 1.7 percent to 2 percent inflation they
see as consistent with achieving legislative mandates for
maximum employment and stable prices.  “You don’t want inflation to be too high but you also
don’t want it to be too low,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
in a speech on Nov. 6. “Our purpose is to provide additional
stimulus to help the economy recover and to avoid potentially
additional disinflation which I think we all agree would be a
worse outcome.”  The Fed is purchasing more Treasuries after having cut the
benchmark rate almost to zero in December 2008 and buying $1.7
trillion in securities.  Costs of raw materials are rising. Rubber futures in Tokyo
surged to a 30-year high on Nov. 11, followed by a decline the
next day on concern that China, the largest user, may take more
steps to curb inflation. The decline continued this week.  Cooper Tire  U.S. companies experiencing the elevated costs include
 Cooper Tire & Rubber Co. , based in Findlay, Ohio.  “Raw material costs have continued to be elevated,” Roy
Armes, chief executive officer of Cooper Tire, said on a Nov. 1
teleconference with analysts. Higher materials costs will
continue through 2011, he said.  Producer prices are one of three monthly inflation gauges
reported by the Labor Department. Prices of goods imported into
the U.S. rose 0.9 percent from the prior month, the Labor
Department said Nov. 10,  Consumer prices, the broadest of the three measures,
probably climbed 0.3 percent in October and the core index had
the smallest year-over-year advance since 1961, according to the
Bloomberg survey. The figures are due tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra at   schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  