-- U.S. Video-Game Industry Sales Fell for Seventh Month
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2010-11-17T00:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/u-s-video-game-sales-declined-4-last-month-npd-group-reports.html
U.S. video-game sales fell for the
seventh month in a row, as slumping demand for consoles and
other hardware dragged industry revenue down by 4 percent.  Hardware sales sank 26 percent to $280 million, researcher
 NPD Group Inc.  said today in a statement. Software rose 6
percent to $605 million, and accessories gained 18 percent after
the September release of  Sony Corp. ’s Move controller.  The video-game industry is gearing up for the holiday sales
season with titles including “Medal of Honor,” released by
 Electronic Arts Inc.  Big-selling items including Microsoft
Corp.’s Kinect motion-capture controller and Activision Blizzard
Inc.’s “Call of Duty: Black Ops” were released in November and
will be included in next month’s report.  “Console and portable hardware unit sales were both down
about 30 percent versus last October,”  Anita Frazier , an NPD
analyst, said in the statement. “An increase in the average
retail price for console hardware softened the dollar sales
impact a bit.”  NPD, based in Port Washington, New York, stopped reporting
unit sales of consoles by manufacturer last month.  “The best-selling hardware system for the month was the
Nintendo DS, while the Xbox 360 was the only platform to realize
unit sales improvement over last October,” Frazier said.
“Versus last month, the Nintendo DS and the Wii were the two
systems to increase unit sales on an average sales per week
basis.  Holiday Sales  The  Nintendo Co.  systems are likely to benefit from holiday
promotions, Frazier said. The Kyoto, Japan-based company has
begun selling red Wii and red DS handheld hardware bundles to
celebrate the 25th anniversary of its Mario franchise.  This year’s software titles are stronger than last year’s,
analyst  Evan Wilson  at Pacific Crest Securities said in a
research note prior to the results.  The top-selling titles for October included  Take-Two
Interactive Software Inc. ’s “NBA 2K11,” Bethesda Software’s
“Fallout: New Vegas” post-apocalyptic game, and the “Medal of
Honor” shooting game.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cliff Edwards  in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  