-- UBS Chief Gruebel Reiterates Targets, Says Regaining `Trust'
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2010-11-16T08:46:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/ubs-s-gruebel-says-clients-regaining-trust-reiterates-2010-profit-targets.html
UBS AG  Chief Executive Officer
 Oswald Gruebel  reiterated his profit goals and said
Switzerland’s biggest bank is “regaining client trust” after
record losses in 2008.  “Our businesses have taken great strides, and we will not
rest until this progress is fully reflected in our financial
performance,” Gruebel said in an e-mailed statement. “UBS
today is built on its distinctive strengths and is regaining
client trust. We confirm our medium-term targets outlined last
year.”  Gruebel, who joined Zurich-based UBS out of retirement in
February 2009, last year set the target of boosting the bank’s
pretax profit to about 15 billion Swiss francs ($15.2 billion)
in the next three to five years. Analysts currently forecast
that UBS’s pretax profit will rise only to 10.8 billion francs
in 2012, according to the average of 22  estimates  gathered by
Bloomberg.  “They’ve made a good progress, but we still need to see
more,”  Christopher Wheeler , an analyst with Mediobanca SpA in
London, said before today’s release. “And they need better
markets. It’s the same for the investment bank, and for wealth
management, and on the U.S. wealth management side.”  The bank reported last month the first quarterly net new
investments at the wealth management units since the beginning
of 2008. Gruebel’s strategy to boost earnings got a setback as
low client activity, combined with the lowest risk-taking among
rivals, resulted in a third-quarter pretax loss at the
investment bank.  Double-Taxation Treaties  UBS was little changed at 16.95 euros by 9:41 a.m. in Swiss
trading. The stock gained 5.6 percent this year, compared with a
4.8 percent drop in Bloomberg’s  European banks index.  About 47
percent of analysts following UBS recommended buying the shares
in the past three months, compared with 31 percent a year ago.  UBS had 251.6 billion francs in net redemptions from its
wealth management businesses since March 2008, before the first
net additions last quarter. It said today that between 15
billion francs and 40 billion francs of invested assets may be
affected by potential changes to European double-taxation
treaties with Switzerland. The bank managed 920 billion francs
at the wealth management and Swiss bank unit, and 693 billion
francs at wealth management Americas at the end of September.  The U.K. and Germany plan to negotiate withholding taxes
with Switzerland on money held in the country’s banks and will
seek “regularization” of undeclared assets, the Swiss Finance
Ministry said last month. The talks start next year.  Profit Targets  Gruebel, 66, hired  Lukas Gaehwiler , 45, from Credit Suisse
in April as CEO for Switzerland and co-head of the wealth
management and Swiss bank unit with  Juerg Zeltner , 43, to help
halt client redemptions. A year ago,  Robert J. McCann , 52, a
former Merrill Lynch & Co. executive, joined UBS to run wealth
management Americas.  The wealth management and Swiss bank division, which has a
 pretax profit  goal of about 6.5 billion francs, earned 3.23
billion francs in the first nine months of 2010. The unit had
net new inflows of about 900 million francs in the third
quarter, the first net addition of client money since the first
quarter of 2008.  Wealth management Americas, which aims for more than 1
billion francs in pretax earnings, said clients added a net 300
million francs in the quarter, as the unit posted a 99 million-
franc loss for the first nine months.  Trading Revenue  UBS’s investment bank, led by  Carsten Kengeter , aims to
boost pretax profit to about 6 billion francs per year. It
earned 2.1 billion francs in the first nine months of 2010.  The bank may need to increase risk-taking at the securities
unit to help reach revenue and earnings targets, said  Kian Abouhossein , a London-based analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Gruebel set goals a year ago for the division to be making
more than 2 billion francs a quarter from trading bonds,
currencies and commodities, more than 1.75 billion francs from
equities trading and more than 1 billion francs from investment-
banking services.  UBS’s sales and trading revenue averaged $2.58 billion a
quarter this year, 45 percent less than the average of $4.7
billion at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , JPMorgan, Citigroup Inc.,
Bank of America Corp., Deutsche Bank AG, Barclays Plc,  Morgan
Stanley  and Credit Suisse Group AG, and 27 percent behind its
own targets, data compiled by Bloomberg shows. In 2005, the bank
made more from trading stocks and bonds than the average of its
competitors, before record losses from the credit crisis forced
it to shrink the investment bank’s risk-taking.  Value-at-Risk  UBS cut  risk-weighted assets  at its unit to 126.2 billion
francs in the third quarter from 225.2 billion francs in the
first quarter of 2008. The bank’s value-at-risk, a measure of
how much it could lose in the markets on average in a single
day, was $56 million in the third quarter, the lowest among its
main competitors that report the data. By comparison, the gauge
of risk was $121 million at Goldman Sachs and $142 million at
Morgan Stanley. The two banks are based in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elena Logutenkova  in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  