-- 
Friedman Aims to Transform UBS Wealth Division With Faster Decision-Making

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-08-30T06:16:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/ubs-wealth-management-focus-is-on-revenue-executives-say.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  is transforming the way it
advises wealthy clients by getting ideas from across the bank
and external experts and speeding decision making, Chief
Investment Officer Alexander Friedman said.  Friedman, who joined UBS in March, compares  Switzerland ’s
biggest bank to Airbus SAS’s A380 double-decker plane: “big,
complicated, with a lot of people on board.” His job is to make
it more agile for the benefit of clients who entrusted the bank
with 748 billion Swiss francs ($914 billion) of invested assets,
as well as for UBS itself, which aims to boost earnings after
record losses in the credit crisis.  “We’re transforming that A380,” Friedman, 40, said in an
interview in Zurich yesterday. “I don’t think it’ll take as
long as everybody expects. We’re already starting to see the
ability to navigate relatively quickly, like a fighter jet, just
over the past month.”  Turning UBS, the world’s third-biggest manager of money for
the rich after Bank of America Corp. and Morgan Stanley, from an
asset gatherer into a more active  investment adviser  will help
the bank regain the trust of its clients, Juerg Zeltner, the
head of wealth management excluding the Americas, told analysts
in November. Customers pulled a net 198.7 billion francs in
assets from the business in nine quarters through June 2010.  Meeting Bankers  Friedman, who was a mergers and acquisitions banker at
 Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  before he was hired as the chief financial officer
of the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation  in 2007, spent the past
six months meeting UBS bankers around the world and investment
officers of some of the biggest firms to revamp investment
management at UBS. He found the organization was designed for a
different kind of environment, where markets are rising and
financial groups produce returns for clients by purely
leveraging up investments.  “Investment over the next 20 years is going to be very
different from the last 20 years,” he said.  Instead of relying on proposals thought up by analysts
sitting at the headquarters, the bank is in the process of
hiring five main regional chief investment officers to come up
with local investment ideas. He is also bringing in the two best
investors from each UBS division onto his global investment
committee, which will have its first formal meeting in October.  Faster Decisions  In a memo to staff today, Friedman also announced that
 investment management , a part of UBS’s investment products and
services unit, will report to him in the future to ensure a
better alignment. The IPS unit will be responsible for matching
products to the views developed by the global investment
committee, as well as for distribution and follow-on support,
the memo said. The CIO investment office, led by former hedge-
fund manager Mark Haefele, as well as the wealth management
research and values-based investing units will also report to
Friedman.  The investment-management decision process will take five
days in the future, rather than three weeks, and the investment
committee will also gather input from a group of “very smart
out-of-the-box external thinkers” as well as UBS’s own clients,
Friedman said.  “We have this fantastic resource, which is pretty unique
compared to any of our other investment management peers, and
that is that we have thousands of clients that are some of the
most successful business people in the world,” he said. “They
probably have better insights into what is compelling in their
region from an investment perspective than most of us sitting
here do.”  Havens Not Safe?  Original investment ideas will be the differentiator among
wealth managers as volatility and uncertainty dominates markets,
pushing customers to either stick with cash or go into safe-
haven assets such as gold, the Swiss franc or U.S. Treasuries,
he said. In the long term, cash investments won’t “do you any
good,” and the so-called safe-haven assets may turn into
bubbles themselves, proving “not so safe in that regard,” he
added.  About 22 percent of UBS’s  wealth management  assets,
excluding the Americas, were in cash holdings at the end of
2010. Convincing clients to invest the money would also help UBS
boost earnings from the division, which contributed 34 percent
to the group’s pretax profits in the first half of this year.  “Very good solid industry-leading companies with strong
balance sheets that pay high dividends and are good cashflow
generators is a very logical and safe way to invest at this
period in time,” Friedman said. “There will be a lot of
continued volatility, but over a longer-term timeframe you can
weather that and can find some decent bargains even today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  