-- United Nations Urges Calm in Guinea After Alpha Conde Declared President
-- B y   O u g n a   C a m a r a
-- 2010-11-16T10:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/un-urges-calm-in-guinea-after-conde-named-winner-in-presidential-election.html
The United Nations urged Guineans to
accept the results of a presidential election in which  Alpha Conde  was declared winner in a vote that marked the first
democratic transfer of power in the country since it won
independence in 1958.  The announcement of Conde’s victory late yesterday was
preceded by clashes between supporters of former Prime Minister
 Cellou Dalein Diallo  and the police after Conde had earlier said
that he had won. Agence France-Presse reported that one person
died and dozens were injured in Conakry before the vote, citing
an unidentified person in the police. Another was killed in
Dalaba after the result was released, AFP said, citing an
unidentified teacher.  “Secretary-General  Ban Ki-Moon  urged the people of Guinea
to accept the results,” the UN said on its website late
yesterday. Ban Ki-Moon urged Guineans “to resolve any
differences through legal means.”  The election was held almost two years after the December
2008 death of President  Lansana Conte , who ruled the country for
24 years. Army Captain  Moussa Dadis Camara  seized power and
ruled for a year before being shot in the head and injured by an
aide on Dec. 3, 2009. General  Sekouba Konate  took over as
interim president and pushed ahead with plans for a civilian-led
administration.  Sorbonne Professor  Conde, 72, received 52.52 percent of ballots cast in the
Nov. 7 vote, Siaka Toumany Sangara, president of the country’s
electoral commission, told reporters in the capital, Conakry
late yesterday. Diallo, who contested against Conde in the
runoff, received 47.48 percent. The runoff was arranged after no
candidate won more than 50 percent in a June 27 vote. Both
Diallo and Conde called for calm after the results, AFP
reported.  Conde, 72, is a former professor at the Sorbonne in Paris
who spent 20 months in jail in Guinea until 2001, according to
his campaign  website , where he pledged to boost agriculture and
regional integration to aid development in Guinea.  “While Conde will reach out to Diallo’s supporters, he is
unlikely to include Diallo in his government,” New York-based
DaMina Advisors Llp said in an e-mailed note to clients.  Ranked 170th out or 182 countries on the United Nations’
Human Development Index, per capita incomes in Guinea, a former
French colony, are less than half the sub-Saharan African
average of $861, according to the World Bank. The country holds
as much as half of the world’s reserves of bauxite, more than 4
billion metric tons of “high-grade” iron ore and
“significant” deposits of diamonds and gold, according to the
U.S. State Department. Bauxite is the ore used to make aluminum.  Mining Review  Both Conde and Diallo pledged during the campaign to
continue a review of mining deals that aren’t favorable to
Guinea that began in 2008 and led to a dispute with London-based
 Rio Tinto Group  over ownership of the Simandou iron-ore project.
Other companies operating in the country include Russia’s  United
Co. Rusal , the world’s largest aluminum producer,  AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd ., Africa’s biggest gold miner, and Brazil’s  Vale SA ,
the world’s No. 1 iron-ore producer.  “Conde’s ambitious populist manifesto calls for drastic
increases in tax revenues and a re-write of the country’s mining
and hydrocarbons laws,” DaMina said in the note. “Tensions
with miners and local business elites will retard major new
investments in iron ore, gold and bauxite.”  Observers from the African Union said Nov. 8 the voting was
held in a “serene and peaceful atmosphere,” while the Economic
Community of West African States said deficiencies of electoral
materials in some areas didn’t compromise the vote.  Conte seized power in 1984 after the death of President
 Ahmed Sekou Toure .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ougna Camara in Conakry via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 