-- UN Weighs More Troops for Southern Sudan as Referendum on Secession Nears
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-11-16T20:34:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/un-weighs-more-troops-for-southern-sudan-as-referendum-on-secession-nears.html
The  United Nations  may send more
peacekeeping troops to Southern Sudan to deter violence in
advance of the scheduled Jan. 9 referendum on possible secession
from Sudan, Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon  said.  The UN is considering “options for possible augmentation
of additional United Nations troops, to increase referendum and
post-referendum security as well as our capacity to verify and
monitor violations” of the 2005 cease-fire agreement between
north and south Sudan, Ban told the  Security Council  today.  The UN has 10,600 soldiers and civilian police in Southern
Sudan, and has moved some of them to areas near the border
between the two regions, where the threat of violence is
considered greatest.  Alain LeRoy , the head of UN peacekeeping,
said talks so far were about sending a “battalion or a bit
more” to Sudan, meaning at least 3,000 more troops.  LeRoy said the UN wanted the government in Khartoum to
agree to the deployment before any final decision is made. He
said discussions have begun with potential troop-contributing
nations and that a Security Council resolution would be needed
to increase the mission’s authorized strength.  Ali Ahmed Karti , Sudan’s foreign minister, said more troops
“will not be a solution.” He said additional forces would
“invite more violence.  Political ‘Minefield’  Ban called the region a ‘‘political and security
minefield,’’ and said the referendum’s results may ‘‘send shock
waves throughout the region.’’  The referendum will test the  peace accord , brokered by the
U.S., the U.K. and Norway, that ended a 21-year civil war
between the Muslim north and the oil-producing south, where
Christianity and traditional beliefs dominate. About 2 million
people died in the conflict and more than 4 million were
displaced.  Southern Sudan accounts for as much as 80 percent of the
Sudan’s 490,000 barrels of daily oil production. Sudan is sub-
Saharan Africa’s third-largest producer, according to the  BP
Statistical Review of World Energy .  Support by the government in Khartoum for a peaceful
referendum and respect for the results, as well as steps to end
the conflict in the western Darfur region, will yield a
‘‘dramatically improved” relationship with the U.S., Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton  said in a Security Council meeting
attended by representatives of north and south Sudan.  Improved Relations  Clinton said improvement may lead to removing Sudan from
the State Department’s list of nations that sponsor terrorism,
ending U.S. sanctions, abetting “international debt relief”
and increasing trade and investment.  “If it chooses conflict, the government of Sudan will face
consequences in the forms of additional pressure and deeper
isolation,” Clinton said.  “We had so many promises before, and those promises were
not met,” Karti said. “This time we see more commitment, more
engagement. We feel there is sincerity this time.”  Registration for the referendum started yesterday, two days
after northern and southern leaders agreed in  African Union -
mediated talks to maintain a “soft border” if the south
secedes, permitting “unhindered economic and social activity
and interaction, which will be essential for economic prosperity
and harmony between the north and the south.”  Outstanding Issues  The two sides also approved a “framework document” on how
to address outstanding issues on the peace accord, such as
border demarcation and sharing oil revenue after the referendum,
according to an e-mailed statement from the African Union’s High
Level Panel on Sudan, headed by former South African President
 Thabo Mbeki .  Karti told the Security Council that his government was
“committed” to accepting the outcome of the referendum
regardless of the outcome.  Delays in the registration have raised tension between the
former battlefield adversaries: the  Sudan People’s Liberation
Movement , which governs the south, and President  Umar al- Bashir ’s National Congress Party in Khartoum.  Pagan Amum , secretary general of the Sudan People’s
Liberation Movement, told the Security Council that the
“turnout was impressive and peaceful” on the first day of
registration, a “clear sign that the South Sudan referendum
will take place on time.” He said “all signs point” to a vote
for independence.  The majority of Southern Sudanese  favor independence , the
Washington-based National Democratic Institute said in an Oct.
20 report, based on 63 focus groups surveyed in 48 locations
from Feb. 5 to March 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  