-- Rothschild Buys Indonesian Coal Stakes for $3 Billion
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2010-11-16T13:58:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/vallar-to-buy-berau-bumi-stakes-in-3-billion-indonesian-cash-stock-deal.html
Nathaniel Rothschild , the only son
of U.K. financier Jacob Rothschild, agreed to invest $3 billion
in two Indonesian coal companies through  Vallar Plc , allowing
the nation’s biggest producer of the fuel to list in London.  Vallar will buy 75 percent of PT Berau Coal Energy and 25
percent of PT Bakrie & Brothers’ PT Bumi Resources in a cash and
stock transaction, the company said today in a statement. After
the so-called reverse takeover, Bakrie Group will be the largest
combined shareholder in Vallar, to be renamed Bumi Plc.  Indonesia overtook Australia to become the world’s biggest
exporter of power-station coal in 2005, and prices for the fuel,
set annually, rose 40 percent this year, according to Morgan
Stanley. Rothschild, former co-president of New York hedge-fund
firm Atticus Capital LLC, raised 707.2 million pounds ($1.13
billion) in Vallar’s initial public offering in London in July
to consider deals of as much as 5 billion pounds.  “This acquisition should be well received by investors
since this is a good price for high-quality coal assets,”
Liberum Capital analysts wrote in a report. “A London-listed,
large scale, pure play Indonesian coal play should offer a
unique commodity exposure and have strong investment appeal.”  The takeover will create an Indonesian “resources
champion,” combining the nation’s largest coal producer,  Bumi ,
and fifth-largest,  Berau , according to Vallar. The company
expects to complete the deal around April next year, it said.  Mandatory Offer  Vallar, whose London-traded  shares  were suspended today,
plans to make a mandatory offer to Berau’s minority shareholders
and increase its ownership in Bumi in 2011, it said.  The Vallar deal, bringing together production from Bumi and
Berau that’s estimated to reach as much as 140 million metric
tons a year by 2013, would create the largest thermal-coal
supplier to China, Rothschild said on a conference call. The
producers’ combined coal resources total about 12 billion tons,
according to a company presentation today.  Rising demand for Indonesian coal has been spurred by
purchases from India and China. Cheaper shipping costs of about
$5 a ton give Indonesia an advantage over Australia, the next
largest exporter of the fuel, Vallar said today.  PTT Pcl , Thailand’s largest energy company, agreed last
week to buy the coal assets of Australia’s Straits Resources
Ltd., including two mines in Indonesia, for A$544.1 million
($532 million).  Vallar Ownership  Bakrie Group will hold 43 percent of Vallar stock after the
deal. Indra Bakrie is to be appointed chairman,  Ari Hudaya  is
the proposed chief executive officer and  Andrew Beckham , finance
director.  The planned London listing, the first for an Indonesian
company, “will enhance our international profile, provide a
currency and platform for development in the region and put us
in a much stronger position to build on the organic growth that
our combined assets already provide,” Indra Bakrie said in the
statement.  “We are bringing it to London, we are listing it on the
London Stock Exchange and we’re giving U.K. investors the
opportunity to participate in this extraordinary growth story,”
said Rothschild, who in April ranked seventh in the annual
Sunday Times  “Rich List”  of the 25 wealthiest U.K.-based
hedge-fund managers.  BHP, Rio  Vallar is “following the mould” of  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and
 Rio Tinto Group , the world’s largest- and third-largest mining
companies, by having a dual listing, he said.  JP Morgan Cazenove Ltd. advised Jersey, Channel Islands-
based Vallar and Credit Suisse Group advised Bumi and Bakrie
Group on the transaction.  Bumi, Indonesia’s largest coal miner by volume with a
market value of 54 trillion rupiah ($6 billion), produced 60
million tons and sold 58 million tons of the fuel last year.
 Xstrata Plc  is the world’s biggest exporter of power-station
coal, with more than 30 operating mines in Australia, South
Africa and Colombia.  “It is interesting that given Vallar’s ‘mini-Xstrata’
aspirations, it has chosen to make its company-founding
acquisition in coal,” Liberum analysts said. “We wonder if
this is a case of history now repeating itself.”  Bumi, based in Jakarta, is a unit of Bakrie & Brothers, an
investment company controlled by the family of billionaire and
politician  Aburizal Bakrie , Indonesia’s fourth-richest man,
according to Forbes Asia. Sovereign wealth fund  China Investment
Corp.  bought $1.9 billion of debt from Bumi in September 2009.  Vallar Issues Stock  Vallar agreed to issue 90.1 million new shares at 1,000
pence apiece to Bakrie Group for the 25 percent stake, it said.  Bumi shares  reversed losses after today’s announcement,
rising 2 percent to 2,600 rupiah in Jakarta at the 4 p.m. close.
The stock has climbed 7.2 percent this year, compared with a 45
percent gain in the benchmark Jakarta Composite Index.  Berau  rose 2 percent to 520 rupiah, extending its advance
since listing in August to 17 percent.  Berau  is 75 percent owned
by PT Recapital Advisors’ Bukit Mutiara, which will retain 15.3
percent after the sale, Berau said in a statement. Vallar has
agreed to pay $1.58 billion in cash and new shares for its stake
at 540 rupiah a share.  Berau expects to produce 17.9 million tons of coal this
year, rising to as much as 22 million tons by 2012, President
Director Rosan Roeslani said Aug. 19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
 Yoga Rusmana  in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 