-- Venezuela in Talks With China on Power Projects After Shortages
-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2010-11-16T13:50:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/venezuela-seeks-china-aid-on-power-projects-after-shortages-hurt-industry.html
Venezuela is in talks with China for
3,000 megawatts of new electricity projects as it seeks to boost
production capacity following a crisis earlier this year that
forced power rationing to avoid a collapse of the national grid.  Chinese companies may work on at least five projects to
build hydroelectric reservoirs and thermoelectric plants in
Venezuela as the nation seeks to boost capacity by 18,700
megawatts, Electricity Minister  Ali Rodriguez  said yesterday in
an interview in Caracas, without naming the companies involved.  Venezuela is strengthening ties with China and tapping
Russia for help to build its first nuclear plant to diversify
power sources. The El Nino weather phenomenon caused drought
earlier this year, cutting water levels at the hydro dams that
provide 73 percent of the country’s power. The dry period led to
Venezuela’s worst power crisis in six years, prompting cuts to
production lines at state-run aluminum and steel companies.  “A crisis like the one we had this year will not be
repeated,” Rodriguez said. “All of these investments will
allow us to respond to any new problem El Nino might throw up.”  Venezuela is in talks with China on reservoirs that could
generate 1,000 megawatts on the Cuchiveros River in the south
and the second stage of the development of the Uribante Caparo
reservoir that would produce 500 megawatts, Rodriguez said.  Venezuela has continued to suffer power outages even as a
wet rainy season filled reservoirs by June. Most of these have
been caused by transmission problems, Rodriguez said. The
government imported 142 transformers from Siemens AG and
Portugal to replace old ones. He said the government is looking
to form alliances or buy local transformer factories.  Chinese Companies  Chinese companies have also agreed to build a 550 megawatt
thermoelectric plant in El Vigia, western Venezuela, and a 600
megawatt extension of Planta Centro, the country’s largest
thermoelectric plant. Another project would construct a 700-
megawatt thermoelectric unit at the El Palito oil refinery.  Each 1000 megawatts produced by thermoelectricity costs
about $3 billion to build, while hydroelectric projects cost
about $9 billion, Rodriguez said.  Thermoelectric output rose by 1,500 megawatts through
November this year, below President  Hugo Chavez ’s target of
5,000 megawatts as the government looked for short-term
solutions to the crisis. The increase boosted domestic
consumption of diesel and fuel oil, reducing exports and cutting
into oil company  Petroleos de Venezuela SA’s  profits, Rodriguez
said.  Gas Extraction  “We are discussing with PDVSA a plan to accelerate the
extraction of gas because demand for diesel is growing,”
Rodriguez said. “Using diesel and fuel oil is more expensive
because not only does it cut into exports but it also means we
have to use hundreds of trucks to transport it.”  Russia on Oct. 15 agreed to build Venezuela’s first nuclear
power plant after talks in Moscow between Chavez and President
 Dimitry Medvedev .  Rosatom Corp., Russia’s state-run nuclear holding company,
will help Venezuela to develop nuclear power, including a
research reactor, according to the agreement.  Rodriguez said Venezuela would allow international
inspectors to visit its reactors during construction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Corina Rodriguez Pons  in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net .
 Charlie Devereux  in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  