-- Verizon, AT&T’s Mobile-Payments Venture Said to Name Abbott CEO
-- B y   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m
-- 2010-11-16T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/verizon-at-t-s-mobile-payments-venture-said-to-name-abbott-ceo.html
Verizon Wireless  and  AT&T Inc. , the
biggest U.S. mobile carriers, hired former  General Electric Co. 
executive Michael J. Abbott to lead a venture that will let
people pay for purchases using their mobile phones, according to
a person with direct knowledge of the matter.  Abbott, previously chief marketing officer for GE’s U.S.
retail consumer-finance business, will be announced as chief
executive officer of the new mobile payments company, which also
includes Deutsche Telekom AG unit T-Mobile USA as a partner,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because the
plans aren’t yet public. An announcement may be made today.  The phone companies are working with Riverwoods, Illinois-
based  Discover Financial Services  and  Barclays Plc  to let
consumers pay retailers with the contactless wave of a
smartphone, potentially supplanting plastic credit and debit
cards. That may pose a threat to  Visa Inc. ,  MasterCard Inc.  and
New York-based  American Express Co. , the biggest card networks,
which have been testing mobile payments worldwide.  Abbott’s hiring “should definitely cause MasterCard and
Visa to take this initiative very seriously,” said Philip
Philliou, at payments-industry consulting firm Philliou Selwanes
Partners in New York. “You have someone who understands
consumer payments, as opposed to this being someone from the
telecom industry.”  The service is similar to those already available in Japan,
the U.K. and Turkey. Transactions would be run through
Discover’s network, currently the fourth-biggest by payments
volume behind Visa, Purchase, New York-based MasterCard and
American Express. Barclays, based in London, may be the bank
helping to manage the accounts, people familiar with the plans
said in August.  Expanding Issuance  Attempts to reach Abbott by e-mail and phone were
unsuccessful. Spokesmen for the telephone companies, Discover
and Barclays said they couldn’t comment. Verizon Wireless, based
in Basking Ridge, New Jersey, is a joint venture of  Verizon
Communications Inc.  and Vodafone Group Plc.  Abbott joined GE in 2002, according to a  biography 
circulated at a 2008 banking conference. He expanded issuance of
store-brand cards that also carry the MasterCard, Visa, AmEx or
Discover logos and can be used elsewhere. Fairfield,
Connecticut-based GE, the biggest U.S. private-label card
issuer, has portfolios including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  and
 Dillard’s Inc.   He previously was senior vice president of card services at
FleetBoston Financial, now owned by  Bank of America Corp.   A consumer using the mobile service would be able to pay a
merchant by holding a smartphone with an embedded radio
microchip near a reader at checkout. The technology may allow
people to forgo plastic cards and enable retailers to send
customers electronic receipts and rewards in real-time.  Code-Named Mercury  Merchants may want to help another network after fighting
for years to win lower transaction fees. Last month, Visa and
MasterCard settled a U.S. antitrust lawsuit that said the
companies’ contracts unfairly bar retailers from steering
customers to other brands. Merchants filed a 2005 antitrust
lawsuit that is still pending and earlier this year persuaded
Congress to approve caps on fees for debit transactions.  Visa and MasterCard handled $2.45 trillion, or 82 percent,
of U.S. consumer spending on all-purpose cards last year,
according to the  Nilson Report , an industry newsletter. That
dominance has helped fuel profit growth for both firms. Visa’s
annual  operating income  has grown almost eightfold since fiscal
2005 to $4.54 billion in the year ended Sept. 30. MasterCard’s
surged more than fivefold to $2.27 billion in 2009.  In August, people with knowledge of the plan said the
project was code-named Mercury and that the carriers were
considering pilots in Minneapolis, Salt Lake City, Atlanta and
Austin, Texas.  iPhone  Card networks and banks aren’t waiting for the U.S.
carriers to offer payment-enabled devices. They’re working to
develop their own technology that works with mobile phones on
the market today, seeking a bridge until embedded chips are
standard.  Visa has introduced U.S. consumers to products that can
transform most smartphones, including  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone, into
payment devices able to store multiple card accounts in an e-
wallet.  Bank of America, the biggest U.S. lender, started testing
the technology in September while  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , U.S.
Bancorp and  Wells Fargo & Co.  are preparing similar pilots,
according to Visa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Eichenbaum  in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  