-- Senator Sanders Urges FCC to Reject Comcast-NBC Deal
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-11-16T21:46:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/vermont-senator-sanders-urges-fcc-justice-to-reject-comcast-nbcu-merger.html
Comcast Corp. ’s merger with
 General Electric Co. ’s NBC Universal should be rejected by
government regulators, U.S. Senator  Bernie Sanders  said today.  “At a time when a small number of giant media corporations
already control what the American people see, hear and read, we
do not need another conglomerate,” Sanders, an independent from
Vermont, said in a letter to the Federal Communications
Commission released by his office.  Congress doesn’t have a direct role in reviewing the deal,
which is being considered by the FCC and Justice Department. The
purchase would give Comcast, the largest U.S. cable company,
control of the NBC television network, broadcast stations, cable
channels such as MSNBC and USA Network, a movie studio and a
share of the online site Hulu LLC. The deal was announced Dec.
3, 2009.  More than 100 federal elected officials have supported the
merger, Comcast said in a  blog posting  Aug. 19 as the FCC
finished taking comments. Those officials include Representative
Rick Boucher, the Democratic chairman of the House subcommittee
on communications, technology and the Internet.  “The overwhelming record in support of the Comcast-NBCU
transaction shows the significant public-interest benefits that
it will deliver,”  Sena Fitzmaurice , a Washington-based
spokeswoman for Comcast, said in an e-mailed statement. The
merger will provide more independent programming, more local
public-affairs programming and more viewing options for families
and children, Fitzmaurice said.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, has
filed papers opposing the Comcast-NBC Universal combination as
it is currently proposed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net . 