-- Chef Albert Roux Has Advice for Protege Ramsay: Get Cooking
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2010-11-16T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/veteran-chef-albert-roux-has-advice-for-protege-gordon-ramsay-get-cooking.html
Albert Roux, 75, walks slowly, with
the aid of a stick, and you might think he’s scowling unless you
look closely and spot the sparkle in his eye.  We meet at the Greywalls Hotel, next to the Muirfield golf
course, 30 minutes east of Edinburgh, where the French-born chef
oversees the Chez Roux restaurant, whose menu features classics
such as the cheese souffle from Le Gavroche in London.  Roux, who was born at Semur-en-Brionnais in 1935, talks
happily about traveling to England at the age of 18 to work for
Lady Nancy Astor and of how he came to open Le Gavroche in 1967
with his brother Michel. The restaurant was the first in the
country to win three Michelin stars and the brothers picked up
another three at the Waterside Inn, outside London.  Albert Roux these days travels the world as a consultant to
restaurants, including the Chez Roux at La Torretta Lake Resort,
in Montgomery, Texas. It’s a business model that he says works,
and Roux sighs when he considers two of his most famous
proteges: Gordon Ramsay, who is doing battle with his father-in-
law and former business partner, Chris Hutcheson; and Marco
Pierre White, the youngest chef to win three Michelin stars.  “This is a very sad story, actually,” he says. “I’m very
sorry for Marco Pierre White. A chef of that caliber advertising
(stock) cubes, turkey?” (Roux says he hasn’t spoken to White
for a decade, but in the kitchen he was a star, a genius.)  “Gordon the same. I remember telling his father-in-law
that you should not pay the hotel to go in, you should go there
as a consultant, charge them a large sum of money. He chose the
other route. I remember his phrase: ‘Maybe you should be
Gordon’s adviser.’ Well, as it turned around when things went
sour, he converted his contract and became a consultant.  ‘Expanded Too Fast’  “He expanded much too fast. New York is the last place on
earth where I would open a restaurant. If you want your laundry
to be delivered, if you want your dustbin to be emptied, and on
and on, you’d better go to bed with the union. He didn’t.
Enormous cost. They lost a fortune and then there was Los
Angeles and Prague and Paris. Versailles was doing good business
but every time somebody sat on a chair, that was costing him.
South Africa? Signed a contract that lasted a year. The people
threw the contract in a dustbin and told him to buzz off.”  Roux’s personal style these days contrasts with Ramsay’s
television persona. During a cookery demonstration at Greywalls
with his protege, Derek Johnstone, he jokes and advises with
gentle humor, telling the young chef he should be paying for his
tips on cooking roasted North Berwick lobster with garlic
butter, confit potatoes and Bearnaise sauce.  (It’s a dish I’d enjoyed at dinner with Roux the night
before after a starter of Albert Roux’s Souffle Suissesse.)  Chefs Depart  Roux says the main danger for Ramsay now is if he loses
more key lieutenants, particular Clare Smyth, the chef at his
flagship restaurant in Chelsea. Several chefs, including Marcus
Wareing, Mark Sargeant and Jason Atherton have gone. Angela
Hartnett has also announced her departure.  “She’s a brilliant woman,” he says of Smyth. “Will she
go? That would spell catastrophe. The television in America
brings in millions, yes, but how long for? That’s the question.
You know how the media is, they put you up there today. Suddenly
the viewing starts to drop a bit and you go back into the
dustbin of history.  “I hope it doesn’t happen. I don’t wish him that because
I’m extremely fond of Gordon. He’s very, very close to my heart.
Very, very close.  Name on Plate  “He is extremely gifted -- that cannot be denied -- and
has a very soft heart, contrary to what people think. He’s a
softie. The image, the swearing and all that: That was all made
by the media again. Yes, in the old days, he entered the
kitchen, it’s his name on the plate and the people who work with
him better do what they’re told. I was the same. I’m afraid I
never suffered fools gladly. Can’t blame him for that.  “He needs somebody of stature to be able to take him and
talk to him. You know, somebody whose judgment he trusts. It
must be somebody like that.” What if he came to Roux?  “If he wanted advice, I would give him advice free of
charge. He’s my dear friend and I’m very sorry for him. So, yes,
I would say: ‘My advice to you: retreat.’ He might say, ‘Well, I
can’t because television brings me x million dollars.’ I would
say, ‘Well, try to sell the whole bloody lot and concentrate on
television and start saving because very few people last, as you
know. In the U.K., if you’re below 2 million (viewers), they’re
not interested.”  The average viewing figure for “Ramsay’s Best
Restaurant,” which ended this month on Channel 4, was 1.9
million.  Greywalls Hotel & Chez Roux Restaurant, Muirfield, Gullane,
East Lothian, EH31 2EG. Tel. +44-1620-842144 or click on
 http://greywalls.co.uk/ .  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 