-- Vienna Insurance Sued by Midwife on K1-Linked Policy
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2010-11-16T15:45:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/vienna-insurance-sued-in-liechtenstein-by-investor-with-k1-linked-policy.html
Vienna Insurance Group AG ’s
Liechtenstein unit was sued by a German midwife who lost money
on an insurance policy linked to a K1 Group hedge fund, a lawyer
said.  The investor bought a 50,000-euro ($67,800) insurance
policy that invested in an X1 Fund Global Certificate, said her
Berlin-based lawyer, Walter Spaeth. The suit was filed in Vaduz,
where the Vienna Life unit is based.  “My client had said that she was looking for secure
investments and she had stressed that many times,” Spaeth said
in an interview today.  K1 Group founder  Helmut Kiener  was charged in Germany over
his role in a fraud that saddled private investors and banks
including  Barclays  Plc and  BNP Paribas SA  with 345 million euros
in losses, prosecutors said today. Kiener, 51, is the central
figure in an international criminal probe that led to his arrest
in October 2009.  Vienna Insurance Chief Executive  Guenter Geyer  said he
couldn’t comment on the Vienna Life lawsuit because he hasn’t
received it.  “We have made clear to all our clients that they would
bear the investment risk of those products,” Geyer said on the
phone from Vienna.  The X1 Global Certificate was based on a reference index
handled by X1 Fund Allocation GmbH, a German company linked to
Kiener that was put into insolvency after the scandal broke.  Vienna Insurance’s Liechtenstein unit Vienna Life has sold
about 1,600 life insurance policies that invested into K1
funds, Geyer said. The total value of the policies was about 10
million euros, he said.  Kiener has denied the allegations that led to the charges
in Germany. Courts have denied Kiener’s requests for bail,
saying he is a flight risk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net 
 Boris Groendahl  at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 