-- Wal-Mart's Profit Jumps as Sales Growth Abroad Offsets Decline in U.S.
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2010-11-16T14:59:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/wal-mart-s-profit-climbs-9-as-sales-growth-abroad-offsets-decline-in-u-s-.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the world’s
largest retailer, reported a 9.3 percent gain in third-quarter
profit as growth abroad helped make up for sales declines at
U.S. stores.  Net income rose to $3.44 billion, or 95 cents a share, the
company said today in a statement. Excluding a tax benefit,
profit was 90 cents, matching the average of  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg.  Sales  abroad rose 7.9 percent on a constant
currency basis, helped by Brazil and Japan.  Wal-Mart has restored thousands of products back to shelves
and plans to open smaller stores to lure back U.S. consumers
struggling to recover from the economic slump. Sales at U.S.
stores open at least a year fell 1.3 percent, the sixth straight
 quarter  of decline, as traffic shrank from last year, U.S.
stores chief  Bill Simon  said on a pre-recorded call today.  “Overall it was a mixed picture,”  Colin McGranahan , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said in an e-mail message.
“There are no signs of any improvement yet.” The New York-
based analyst rates the shares “market perform.”  Wal-Mart today  forecast  fourth-quarter profit of $1.29 to
$1.33 a share, compared with the $1.28 average of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The company, based in Bentonville,
Arkansas also raised its full-year forecast to as much as $4.12,
from as much as $4.05 previously. The increase mainly reflects
the tax benefit from the third quarter, Wal-Mart said.  Wal-Mart rose $1.05, or 2 percent, to $55 at 9:56 a.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The  shares  had risen
less than 1 percent this year before today, compared with a 7.4
percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  U.S. Forecast  Total revenue in the three months ended Oct. 31 increased
2.6 percent to $102 billion. Wal-Mart also said today that its
fourth-quarter comparable store  sales  in the U.S. will range
from a drop of 1 percent to an increase of 2 percent. At an
October investor presentation, Chief Executive Officer  Mike Duke 
predicted U.S. comparable sales in that period would be
“positive.”  “They left the door open to negative fourth-quarter comps,
which may imply that the improving traction is coming slower
than expected,” McGranahan said.  The last two months of the year are typically the biggest
U.S. shopping season and hiring time for retailers. The National
Retail Federation has forecast November-December holiday sales
will rise by 2.3 percent from a year ago, the most since 2006.
In October, sales at U.S. retailers climbed by the most in seven
months, brightening the outlook for holiday shopping.  “Like back-to-school and Halloween, we expect that a lot
of the spending will come close to Christmas,” Simon said,
noting that more people shopped closer to the dates themselves.  Holiday Sales  The pace of job growth and Americans’ drive to pay down
debt and boost savings may remain hurdles for retailers.
Payrolls grew by 151,000 workers in October, the first gain in
five months, and the unemployment rate held at 9.6 percent, the
Labor Department said Nov. 5.  Wal-Mart rival  Target Corp.  is scheduled to report results
tomorrow. Both are seeking a bigger chunk of holiday spending by
discounting popular toys and electronic gadgets, as well as
offering free shipping on some products bought online.
Yesterday, Wal-Mart said most of its stores would open at
midnight on Friday, Nov. 26, the day after Thanksgiving,
offering deals like Wrangler jeans for $9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  