-- Wall Street's 2010 Earnings, Cash Bonus Pools May Shrink, DiNapoli Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 2010-11-16T19:36:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/wall-street-s-2010-profit-bonus-pools-may-fall-dinapoli-says.html
Wall Street’s profit and bonus pools
may drop this year after banks’ earned a record $61.4 billion in
2009,  New York  Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli said.  New York securities firms’ earnings may fall 69 percent to
$19 billion this year, after federal bailouts last year helped
boost profits, the comptroller said today in a  report .  The cash bonus pool at Wall Street firms may shrink from
last year, as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and
 Morgan Stanley  reported a 7.1 percent decline in aggregate
employee compensation for the nine months through September,
according to the report. Many firms are increasing their use of
deferred bonuses or payments in stock rather than cash, it said.  For individual workers on Wall Street, the average bonus
“may be a bit larger since the pool will be divided among fewer
workers,” according to the report. About 38,000 jobs could be
lost in the industry before employment growth resumes, it said.  “‘The state can’t rely on a full recovery of Wall Street
to resolve its budget shortfall,” DiNapoli said in a statement.
The comptroller said yesterday that the state’s budget deficit
this year could be as much as $1 billion, or more than triple
the $315 million projected by the Division of Budget.  New York, the third-most populous state, faces a projected
$9 billion deficit for the fiscal year beginning April 1,
according to the budget division. That gap may be as much as $10
billion, depending on revenue and spending over the remaining
five months of the fiscal year, Robert Megna, the state’s budget
director, said yesterday at a hearing in Albany.  The  budget  assumes that taxes from cash bonus payments will
rise 10 percent this year, according to Megna. The dollar amount
of this year’s bonus-related taxes wasn’t immediately available,
he said yesterday at a briefing for reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  