-- Warhol Foundation's $7 Million Defense Beats Collector's `Fakes' Lawsuit
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2010-11-16T22:35:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/warhol-foundation-for-the-visual-arts-wins-lawsuit-with-7-million-defense.html
The  Andy Warhol Foundation for the
Visual Arts  defeated a 2007 lawsuit by a collector of the late
artist’s works who said the foundation illegally restrained
trade and rigged prices by deeming some paintings to be fake.  U.S. District Judge  Andrew Peck  dismissed the case
yesterday in Manhattan without awarding costs, based on a
settlement agreement with the parties, according to court
documents. The defense by law firm Boies Schiller & Flexner LLP
against U.K. collector Joe Simon-Whelan cost almost $7 million,
Joel Wachs, the foundation’s president, said in a statement
yesterday.  Simon-Whelan, owner of a Warhol self-portrait that was
stamped a fake, accused the foundation of seeking to profit from
its own Warhol collection by limiting the number of authentic
works sold in the art market. He got no money out of the
settlement, and was barred from writing a book or making a movie
about his experience or even suing his lawyers, said  Nicholas Gravante , a lawyer for the foundation, in an interview today.  “Not only did we not pay him any money, but he admitted on
the record in court that there was no basis for his allegations,
and the court agreed,” the lawyer said. “He is not allowed to
profit from frivolous allegations.”  The foundation decided not to try to recover its own legal
costs from the collector because a search turned up no assets,
he said.  ‘Never Been Aware’  Simon-Whelan assented to the proposed order when the judge
read in court on Nov. 10 that the collector “has never been
aware of any evidence that defendants have ever engaged in any
conspiracy, anticompetitive acts, or any other fraudulent or
illegal conduct,” according to a transcript from the court
hearing.  In an e-mailed statement, Simon-Whelan said, “I am deeply
saddened that I was unable to reveal the truth in court, but
when faced with threats of bankruptcy, continuing personal
attacks and counterclaims, I realized I no longer stood a chance
of proceeding further.”  The case is Joe Simon-Whelan v. The Andy Warhol Foundation
for the Visual Arts Inc., 07-cv-06423, U.S. District Court,
Southern District (Manhattan). A related case against the
foundation in the same court has a docket number of 01-cv-00373.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Linda Sandler  in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 