-- Warren Said to Tap Consultant for Credit-Card Unit
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2010-11-16T21:29:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/warren-said-to-pick-boston-consultant-silberman-for-credit-card-oversight.html
Elizabeth Warren , the special White
House adviser assigned to set up the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, has selected David Silberman of the Kessler
Group to run the unit that will research and write rules for
credit cards, according to two people involved in the decision.  Warren has said that among her top priorities is regulating
credit-card disclosures, which would affect issuers including
 JPMorgan Chase  & Co.,  Bank of America Corp.  and  Citigroup Inc.   Silberman manages the insurance business at the Boston-based
consulting firm, according to the company’s website. Its clients
include the Hartford Life & Accident Insurance Co., the Union
Labor Life Insurance Co., and the AFL-CIO. He may be named to
the post as early as today, said the people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the decision isn’t public.  Before joining Kessler in 1999, Silberman was a co-founder
of Union Privilege, the benefits arm of the AFL-CIO. He also
served as the general counsel of Union Privilege for 12 years,
then as its president and chief executive for five years.  As the general counsel of Union Privilege, Silberman
negotiated the first agreements in the early 1990s with credit
card issuers including  HSBC Holdings  Plc to create “affinity
cards” for union members.  Affinity cards offer financial benefits to cardholders, such
as discounts at certain stores, and funnel a fraction of each
transaction to the union, said Leslie Tolf, the current
president of Union Privilege. Currently about 1.5 million union
members have the cards, she said.  ‘Unique Skills’  Silberman “has a unique set of skills for the consumer and
business,” Tolf said.  Silberman’s office in Boston did not return a call seeking
comment.  Like everyone currently working with Warren, Silberman will
technically be an employee of the Treasury Department until the
bureau sets up its own human resources and computer system.  Warren said in an interview last week that her planned
structure for the bureau would have separate units for each of
the major areas of financial services, including credit cards,
mortgages and student loans. She said each unit would perform
its own research and rule-writing.  This structure, Warren said, can help avoid “capture,” the
term that describes a regulator that falls under the sway of the
industry it is supposed to oversee.  “An agency can be designed in a way to make capture more
difficult, in part by making sure the people who know the
markets best are writing the rules,” Warren said.  Other Appointments  Treasury today named  Steven Antonakes , who is currently the
Massachusetts commissioner of banks, to set up the bureau’s
supervision program for the nation’s largest depository banks.
 Peggy Twohig , who has run the Treasury Department’s Office of
Consumer Protection, will help set up supervision of non-
depository financial companies, Treasury said.  “Peggy and Steve will play critical roles in building a
CFPB that will level the playing field between bank and non-bank
lenders,” Warren said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carter Dougherty  in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 