-- Wheat Declines on Signs Demand May Be Easing, Imrpoved U.S. Crop Condition
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2010-11-16T07:03:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/wheat-declines-on-signs-demand-may-be-easing-improved-u-s-crop-condition.html
Wheat futures declined amid signs
that demand for U.S. grain may be waning, as the condition of
the crop improved in the country, the world’s largest shipper.  March-delivery wheat lost as much as 0.7 percent to $7.0725
a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, before trading at $7.10
at 2:58 p.m. Singapore time.  Wheat for export inspected as U.S. ports fell 21 percent to
15.32 million bushels in the week to Nov. 11, the U.S.
Department of Agriculture said in a report yesterday. The
condition of the U.S. winter-wheat crop improved last week, the
agency said in a separate report.  “Negative for prices were the USDA’s weekly inspections,”
 Luke Mathews , a commodity strategist at Commonwealth Bank of
Australia said today.  About 46 percent of winter wheat was  rated  good or
excellent as of Nov. 14, up from 45 percent a week earlier and
64 percent a year earlier, the USDA said in a weekly report
yesterday. An estimated 87 percent of the wheat had emerged,
compared with 82 percent a week earlier and 85 percent on
average in the previous five years, the USDA said.  Australia will have increased supplies of feed wheat this
year for export as continuing rainfall turns more milling-
quality grain into stockfeed, AWB Ltd., the country’s largest
shipper, said in an e-mailed statement today.  “AWB is already making strong export sales of feed wheat,
with steady inquiry appearing from customers in Asia and Pacific
markets, where we have a significant freight advantage over just
about every other origin,” the company’s General Manager
Commodities  Mitch Morison  said.  Australia is the world’s fourth-largest wheat exporter,
according to the USDA. The three biggest are the U.S., the
European Union and Canada.  March-delivery corn lost 0.6 percent to $5.6575 a bushel in
Chicago, while January-delivery soybeans slipped 1.4 percent to
$12.685 a bushel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  