-- Wheat Falls Most in Three Months on Commodity Rout, Favorable U.S. Weather
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-11-16T20:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/wheat-drops-to-one-week-low-in-chicago-as-rains-boost-u-s-crop-prospects.html
Wheat futures plunged the most in
three months on speculation that China’s demand will wane and as
wet weather in the U.S. may spur development of winter crops.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 commodities
tumbled as much as 3.2 percent today on mounting concern that
China will move to cool its growth. Parts of the Great Plains
got as much as 2.5 inches (6.4 centimeters) of rain last week,
improving prospects after fields received less than half the
normal amount in the past month, according to Commodity Weather
Group LLC.  “Most of our downside has been influenced by the Chinese
once again, and concern over their tightening credit policies,”
said  Tom Leffler , the owner of Leffler Commodities LLC in
Augusta, Kansas. Futures also dropped as “some of the biggest
wheat-growing areas” got “beneficial” rain, he said.  Wheat futures for March delivery tumbled 47.75 cents, or
6.7 percent, to settle at $6.6475 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. That marked the biggest drop for a most-
active contract since Aug. 6.  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said today that the cabinet is
drafting measures to counter rapid price gains. The nation may
impose price limits on food and toughen punishment of those
found speculating on agriculture futures, the China Securities
Journal reported, citing an unidentified person.  The country is the largest consumer of wheat, soybeans and
many other commodities.  A ‘Follower’  “Wheat is a follower” of declines in other grains and
commodities today, Leffler said. Corn dropped as much as 30
cents, the most allowed on the CBOT, and soybeans tumbled as
much as the exchange’s 70-cent limit.  The  condition  of the U.S. winter-wheat crop was rated 46
percent good or excellent last week, up from 45 percent a week
earlier, the USDA said yesterday after markets closed in
Chicago.  Growing areas from Missouri to Ohio may receive as much as
0.7 inch of rain today and the northern and central Great Plains
may get 0.2 inch later this week, according to AccuWeather Inc.  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  