-- Whole Milk Powder Prices Fall to Three-Month Low at Auction, Fonterra Says
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-11-16T18:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/whole-milk-powder-prices-fall-to-three-month-low-at-auction-fonterra-says.html
Whole milk powder auction prices
fell to the lowest in more than three months, according to
 Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd.,  the world’s largest dairy
exporter.  Powder for January delivery dropped 1.7 percent from two
weeks earlier, according to a trade-weighted price index
calculated by the company after its latest  GlobalDairyTrade 
auction. The average price fell to $3,463 a ton, and is the
lowest for the spot contract since Aug. 3.  Fonterra accounts for about 40 percent of the global trade
in butter, milk powder and cheese, selling $12 billion of
product a year in 140 countries. On Nov. 5, the company
reaffirmed it farmer payout forecast, saying a strengthening
currency had countered a better-than-expected performance by
global dairy prices.  Sustained growth in Chinese demand for dairy products will
see milk powder auction prices remain stable at about $3,500 a
metric ton for the rest of 2010 before “softening” in 2011,
Fonterra Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Ferrier  said in an
interview on Nov. 9.  “If there’s going to be a softening in dairy prices, it’s
more likely to come in calendar 2011 driven by, for the most
part, higher production out of the U.S.,” he said. “We see a
scenario where U.S. production is stronger, more product hits
the market and prices soften a little bit.”  Fonterra sells whole and skim milk powder and dried milk
fat at its fortnightly Internet-based auctions. It offers one-
month  contract s with delivery starting two months after the sale,
and two three-month contracts with delivery starting three and
six months later.  Whole milk powder for delivery from February through April
fell 2.1 percent, Fonterra said. Powder for shipment from May
through July increased 3.2 percent. Across all contracts prices
dropped 1.4 percent.  The winning first-contract price for regular New Zealand
whole milk powder, which is the reference point for NZX Ltd.’s
futures contract, rose to $3,430. The November futures contract
settled yesterday at $3,500.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson   iwilson2@bloomberg.net  