-- Hypo Real Estate Loss Narrows After Reducing Provisions for Bad Loans
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2010-11-16T08:04:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/hypo-real-estate-s-loss-narrows-as-lender-reduces-provisions-for-bad-loans.html
Hypo Real Estate Holding AG , the
German lender that’s owned by the government following a bailout
during the financial crisis, had a narrower third-quarter loss
as it cut provisions to cover bad loans.  The  net loss  of 445 million euros ($604 million) compared
with 574 million euros a year earlier, the Munich-based lender
said in an e-mailed  statement  today. The company reduced loan-
loss provisions by 2 million euros in the period, after adding
810 million euros a year ago.  Hypo Real Estate, led by Chief Executive Officer  Manuela Better , said last month that it completed the move of about 173
billion euros of loans and securities to its FMS Wertmanagement
bad bank. Third-quarter results do not yet include the “relief
provided by the effects of the asset transfer” as of Oct. 1,
the lender said today.  Hypo Real Estate’s remaining core bank, pbb Deutsche
Pfandbriefbank, had a pretax profit of 119 million euros in the
third quarter, compared with a loss of 321 million euros a year
earlier. The unit is expected to be profitable in the fourth
quarter and in 2011, the lender said.  “The fact that pbb Deutsche Pfandbriefbank, our strategic
core bank, has returned to profit gives us reason to be very
positive,” Better said in the statement.  Hypo Real Estate needed a total of 10 billion euros in
capital and as much as 142 billion euros in credit lines and
debt guarantees from the state and financial institutions to
save it from collapse after the lender’s Dublin-based Depfa Bank
Plc unit couldn’t raise financing in 2008 following the
bankruptcy of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.   Hypo Real Estate is fully owned by the government’s Soffin
bank-rescue fund, which took over the lender in 2009 following a
squeeze-out that forced minority investors, including U.S.
investor J.  Christopher Flowers , to sell their remaining shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oliver Suess  in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  