-- Hyundai Group Named Preferred Bidder for Hyundai Engineering
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   S o o k y u n g   S e o
-- 2010-11-16T09:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/hyundai-group-named-preferred-bidder-for-builder-beating-hyundai-motor.html
Hyun Jeong Eun’s Hyundai Group
was named preferred bidder for South Korea’s largest
construction company, beating out a rival offer from her
billionaire brother-in-law’s automaking group.  The winner offered about 5.5 trillion won ($4.9 billion)
for the Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co. stake, according
to two people familiar with the situation. That’s more than
double the market price. Hyundai Group declined to say how much
it offered in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg questions. Korea
Exchange Bank named the group as the preferred bidder today.  Hyundai Group units and Hyundai Engineering fell by about
the daily limit in Seoul trading on concern that Chairwoman Hyun
was overpaying for the 35 percent stake. She faced Chung Mong
Koo’s Hyundai Motor Group in the bidding battle that
extended a decade-long feud over the divided industrial empire.  “This was definitely a big surprise because everyone
expected Hyundai Motor Group to win,” said Byun Sung Jin, an
analyst at Mirae Asset Securities Co. in Seoul. “A takeover by
Hyundai Group won’t benefit Hyundai Engineering, it will only be
good for the group because the builder will help it to diversify
its businesses.”  Hyundai Motor Cash  Hyundai Group’s bid was about 400 billion won higher than
Hyundai Motor Group’s, the people familiar said.  Hyun took on Chung, whose automaking group had about ten
times more cash to fund an acquisition, as part of her strategy
to raise sales almost sevenfold by 2020.  The bid was “a lot more than the 4 trillion won range the
market was expecting,” said Kang Seung Min, an analyst at NH
Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul.  The 35 percent stake is worth $2.15 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hyundai Merchant Marine Co., Hyundai Group’s biggest unit,
affiliate Hyundai Elevator Co. and Hyundai Engineering all
tumbled 15 percent at the close of trading in Seoul today.
Hyundai Merchant fell to 38,400 won, Hyundai Engineering slumped
to 62,200 won and Hyundai Elevator declined to 64,700 won.  “Investors are worried about a possible cash squeeze,”
said Shin Min Seok, a Seoul-based analyst at Daewoo Securities
Co. The news spurred concern the group “might have offered a
big price tag,” Shin said.  Severed Ties  Hyundai Motor Group in 2000 severed ties with Hyundai Group
because the late founder Chung Ju Yung picked his younger son as
his successor over Chung Mong Koo. Hyundai Engineering was taken
over by creditors, including Korea Exchange, the following year
after being unable to pay debts.  Hyundai Group plans to complete the agreement to buy the
builder through units Hyundai Merchant, Hyundai Elevator and
Hyundai Securities Co. next year, Korea Exchange Bank Director
Kim Hyo Sang told reporters in Seoul today.  The three Hyundai Group units had cash and cash equivalents
totaling 1.13 trillion won at the end of June.  Shipping line Hyundai Merchant aims to raise about 400
billion won by selling 10.2 million new shares next month and
500 billion won in a commercial note sale. It is also selling a
stake in a container terminal in Busan, South Korea, for about
200 billion won. Hyundai Elevator has raised 180 billion won
through sale of notes and bonds.  Hyundai Motor Co., Kia Motors Corp. and Hyundai Mobis Co.
had a combined 11.8 trillion won of cash and assets equivalent
to cash at the end of September. Hyundai Motor Co. and Kia are
South Korea’s largest carmakers, while Mobis makes auto parts.  Hyundai Motor Co. gained 2.6 percent to 181,000 won in
Seoul. Kia rose 0.4 percent to 50,000 won.  Refinery Construction  Hyundai Engineering gets about 45 percent of revenue from
construction of power plants and refineries and has contracts
for a nuclear plant in the United Arab Emirates, natural gas
works in Indonesia and oil piers in Kuwait. Projects including
roads, dams and bridges make up another 45 percent of sales. The
builder posted record profit for 2009.  The acquisition of Hyundai Engineering may help Hyundai
Group achieve its goal of boosting sales to 70 trillion won in
2020 by strengthening its logistics, finance and infrastructure
businesses.  An acquisition of Hyundai Engineering would help Hyundai
Group diversify, reducing its dependence on Hyundai Merchant,
the group said today in an e-mailed statement. It also said that
the takeover will help rebuild the group.  Net income at Hyundai Engineering jumped 42 percent to
460.2 billion won in the nine months ended Sept. 30 from a year
earlier. It received 16.2 trillion won worth of orders at the
end of September. That increased its backlog to 55.8 trillion
won, representing more than five years’ work.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park at   kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Sookyung Seo in Seoul at 
 sseo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Kae Inoue at   kinoue@bloomberg.net  