-- Hyundai Merchant Shaers Plunge on Report Hyundai Group to Buy Builder
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   S o o k y u n g   S e o
-- 2010-11-16T01:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/hyundai-merchant-shares-plunge-on-report-parent-may-buy-construction-unit.html
Hyundai Merchant Marine Co.  plunged
the most in more than a year in Seoul trading after Yonhap News
said parent Hyundai Group may be named the preferred bidder for
a controlling stake in  Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co.   The  shipping line , Hyundai Group’s biggest unit, fell as
much as 14 percent, the biggest intraday decline since May last
year, to 39,000 won and traded at 40,500 won as of 9:40 a.m. in
Seoul. Hyundai Engineering, the nation’s largest builder,
dropped as much as 15 percent, the biggest decline since
November 2008.  “The news seems to have spurred worries that Hyundai
Merchant might have offered a big price tag,”  Shin Min Seok , a
Seoul-based analyst at Daewoo Securities Co. “Investors are
worried about a possible cash squeeze.”  Preferred bidding status would give Hyundai Group
Chairwoman  Hyun Jeong Eun  the inside track over brother-in-law
 Chung Mong Koo , chairman of Hyundai Motor group and the oldest
surviving son of the original group’s founding family. The
group’s competing bids are the latest round of a decade-long
feud for control of Hyundai’s divided industrial empire.  Hyundai Group offered more than 5 trillion won for the 35
percent stake, MoneyToday said, citing industry sources it
didn’t identify.  Hyundai Group is bidding through its Hyundai Merchant,
Hyundai Elevator Co. and Hyundai Securities Co. units. Hyundai
Motor Group also submitted its proposal through Hyundai Motor
Co., Kia Motors Corp. and Hyundai Mobis Co. units.  Units’ Shares  Hyundai Elevator , the country’s biggest elevator maker,
dropped 11 percent to 67,700 won at 10:29 a.m. in Seoul.
 Hyundai Securities  fell 6.5 percent to 13,000 won.  Hyundai
Motor Co. , South Korea’s largest automaker, gained 1.4 percent
to 179,000 won.  “Investors believe that Hyundai Motor Group should be the
winner because it will help Hyundai Engineering grow its
business,” said  Byun Sung Jin , an analyst at Mirae Asset
Securities Co. in Seoul. “A takeover by Hyundai Group won’t
benefit Hyundai Engineering, it will only be good for the group
because the builder will help it to diversify its businesses.”  Hyundai Group has been selling shares and assets in its
units to raise cash for the acquisition of Hyundai Engineering.
Cash and cash equivalents at Hyundai Group’s three units that
are bidding totaled 1.13 trillion won at the end of June.  Hyundai Merchant aims to raise about 400 billion won by
selling 10.2 million new shares next month and 500 billion won
in a commercial note sale. It is also selling a stake in a
container terminal in Busan, the world’s fifth-busiest port,
for about 200 billion won.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sookyung Seo in Seoul at 
 sseo10@bloomberg.net ;
 Kyunghee Park  in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Kae Inoue at   kinoue@bloomberg.net  