-- Zhou Targets Liquidity Amid Speculation China Could Impose Price Controls
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-16T07:52:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-16/zhou-targets-liquidity-amid-speculation-china-may-introduce-price-controls.html
Chinese Central Bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said China is under “pressure” from capital inflows
as a state newspaper said price controls could be imposed to
cool the fastest inflation in two years.  Zhou reiterated government goals of “moderate” credit
growth and stronger liquidity management at a forum in Beijing
today. The China Securities Journal said price limits are
possible for food, citing unidentified sources.  The  Shanghai Composite Index  tumbled 4 percent today, after
a 5 percent plunge on Nov. 12, amid speculation that surging
 inflation  may trigger more monetary tightening. Capital flowing
into China because of easing in developed economies and
speculation that the yuan will appreciate adds to money already
in the financial system from record domestic lending.  “Everybody knows that inflation is a huge problem,” said
 Andy Xie , an independent economist, in a Bloomberg Television
interview in Hong Kong. “The bottom line is that money supply
has increased too much.”  Xie sees another interest-rate increase “soon.”  The Federal Reserve’s decision to buy $600 billion of
Treasuries came as China raised benchmark lending and deposit
rates for the first time since 2007. October’s inflation rate of
4.4 percent was higher than any of the estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists.  UBS AG. said Nov. 11 that the government may set next
year’s new lending target at about 7 trillion yuan ($1.1
trillion), down from 7.5 trillion yuan this year. Credit Suisse
Group AG. has said the goal may be 5 trillion yuan.  Punishing Speculators  Some emerging economies have grown quickly and face
“pressure” from capital inflows as growth in developed nations
has slowed, Zhou said. Rising prices in China need attention and
officials should “strengthen liquidity management and maintain
moderate growth in credit and money supply,” he said.  China may impose price limits on food and toughen
punishment of those found speculating on agriculture futures
including corn and cotton, the  China  Securities Journal
reported, citing an unidentified person.  The government may also crack down on hoarding, offer food
subsidies and hold local mayors responsible for ensuring
vegetable supplies and controlling prices, the report said. In
May, the government said hoarders will be fined by up to five
times the value of the commodities held, the paper said.  The National Development and Reform Commission, the state
economic planner, didn’t immediately respond to faxed questions
sent by Bloomberg News.  Vegetable Prices  Corn prices in China jumped to a record today as tightening
supplies increased their investment appeal. Rice also reached an
all-time high. China has already sold sugar, cotton, corn,
aluminum and zinc from stockpiles to ease supply shortages.  Vegetable prices in the first 10 days of this month jumped
62.4 percent from a year earlier, the Financial News reported
today, citing a survey by the  Ministry of Commerce . Prices have
also jumped 11.3 percent from the start of this year, according
to the newspaper published by China’s central bank.  Fan Gang , a former adviser to the  People’s Bank of China ,
said today that inflation is being imported into China in the
form of higher price for foods such as soybean oil and animal
feed. Policy makers will take action, he said.  Currency appreciation “may be used as a policy to deal
with inflation, and that would not only be good for the control
of inflation, but also would be beneficial for the overall
balance of the domestic economy and external economy,” Fan said
at a forum in Singapore today.  China’s economy has expanded by an average 10.3 percent a
year over the past decade compared with an average 1.8 percent
for the U.S. Standard Chartered Plc yesterday estimated that
China would overtake the U.S. to become the world’s biggest
economy by 2020.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  