-- L'Oreal Heiress Loses Bid to Block Media Use of Butler's Secret Recordings
-- Heather Smith
-- 2010-07-23T17:23:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/l-oreal-heiress-loses-bid-to-block-media-use-of-butler-s-secret-recordings.html

          
          
             L’Oreal SA  heiress  Liliane Bettencourt  lost her bid to block media use of recordings that
sparked a political scandal and led police to seek to question a
member of President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s government.  
 The Paris court of appeals ruled today that Bettencourt’s
right to privacy wasn’t violated, upholding a lower-court ruling
issued earlier this month.  
 The ruling noted the excerpts used by news website
 Mediapart  and the magazine  Le Point  focused on the management of
Bettencourt’s assets, a “legitimate” issue for public interest
because she is “the biggest stakeholder in one of the biggest
French companies,” according to the six-page ruling by Judge
Alain Girardet. They touched on matters “which have been the
object of a great number of public discussions.”  
 The recordings, made by Bettencourt’s former butler,
provided a window into the life of Europe’s richest woman and
sparked a political storm over alleged campaign-finance law
violations, tax evasion and influence peddling that has reached
both Sarkozy and Labor Minister  Eric Woerth .  
 The tapes, made between May 2009 and May 2010, were turned
over to Bettencourt’s only child, who gave them to police.
Mediapart and Le Point published transcripts, audio files and
articles about the recordings just before a trial on the
daughter’s claims her mother was manipulated into giving away 1
billion euros ($1.28 billion) in gifts to a photographer friend.  
 “We are very disappointed,” Bettencourt’s lawyer Thierry
Marembert said. “I believe the reasoning is erroneous” in not
applying the protection of privacy to all private conversations.  
 Investment Adviser  
 Bettencourt was joined in her suit to block continued use
of the recordings by  Patrice de Maistre , general director of
Thethys SAS. The company manages the Bettencourt family’s nearly
 31 percent stake  in L’Oreal, a cosmetics company founded by
Bettencourt’s father.  
 Marembert said his client is “seriously considering”
pursuing an appeal to France’s highest court.  
 Pascal Wilhelm, the lawyer for de Maistre didn’t
immediately return a call for comment on the ruling.  
 In addition to the tax and campaign finance inquiries, the
tapes resulted in an expanded review of the abuse claims by her
daughter, Francoise Bettencourt Meyers. That trial was postponed
July 1 to review the new evidence.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        