-- Abitibi, Controladora, Almatis, General Growth, Texas Rangers: Bankruptcy
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2010-07-23T12:39:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/abitibi-controladora-almatis-general-growth-texas-rangers-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             AbitibiBowater Inc. , the largest
newsprint maker in North America, is pursuing a fourth and last
extension of the exclusive right to propose a Chapter 11 plan.  
 Although Abitibi has a reorganization plan on file, the new
exclusivity motion said there are talks with “key creditor
constituencies” about “certain amendments.” Aurelius Capital
Management LP and Contrarian Capital Management LLC previously
claimed to have a blocking position due to their ownership of
notes representing more than a third of unsecured claims against
Bowater.  
 Because bankruptcy law limits a reorganizing company’s
right to retain so-called exclusivity to 18 months, the latest
motion filed on July 21 would push out the deadline to Oct. 16,
if granted at a Sept. 14 hearing.  
 The hearing for approval of the disclosure statement is on
the court’s calendar for July 30. Creditors can’t vote until the
disclosure statement is approved. The company says it intends on
emerging from bankruptcy reorganization “in the early fall of
this year.”  
 The disclosure statement tells creditors of each of the
more than 30 affiliated companies how much they could recover.
For details about the plan, click here for the May 25 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  
 AbitibiBowater was formed in October 2007 through a merger
between Montreal-based Abitibi-Consolidated Inc. and Greenville,
South Carolina-based Bowater Inc. Abitibi is a producer of
newsprint, uncoated mechanical paper, and lumber. Bowater also
makes newsprint along with papers, bleached kraft pulp, and
lumber. The Montreal-based company began reorganizing with 24
pulp and paper mills plus 30 wood-product plants. Revenue in
2008 was $6.8 billion. In Chapter 11 petitions filed in April
2009, the combined AbitibiBowater companies listed assets of
$9.9 billion and debt totaling $8.8 billion as of Sept. 2008.  
 The case is AbitibiBowater Inc., 09-11296, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Updates  
 Controladora Denied Temporary Halt on Creditor Suits  
 Controladora Comercial Mexicana SAB , the third-largest food
retailer in Mexico, came up short in its first stab at stopping
lawsuits and creditor actions in the U.S.  
 After the Chapter 15 filing on July 16, Controladora held a
July 19 hearing on a motion for a temporary restraining order
intended to stop creditor actions in the U.S. U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge  Stuart M. Bernstein  denied the TRO, although he scheduled
a hearing for July 28 where the company again can ask for an
injunction after creditors have had more time to respond.  
 Bernstein also scheduled a hearing for Aug. 19 where
Controladora will ask the judge to declare that the
reorganization proceedings in Mexico meet the standards demanded
in Chapter 15. If Bernstein finds that Mexico is properly home
to the “foreign main proceeding,” creditors’ suits in the U.S.
will be halted automatically. Chapter 15 doesn’t have a so-
called automatic stay like Chapters 11 or 7.  
 Controladora’s Chapter 15 petition is intended to help the
company in carrying out a reorganization that has support from
holders of 85 percent of the debt.  
 The company operated 231 retail stores and 73 restaurants
at the end of 2009. The petition said assets and debt both
exceed $1 billion.  
 The case is In re Controladora Comercial Mexicana SAB, 10-
13750, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 Dubai Has New Financing for Revised Almatis Plan  
 Almatis BV, a producer of specialty alumina products, is
expected to file papers today about $535 million in financing
for a revised reorganization plan arranged by the owner, Dubai
International Capital LLC.  
 The financing would enable full payment to senior secured
creditors led by an affiliate of  Oaktree Capital Management LLC .
Junior lenders are to have a greater recovery.  
 Information about the new financing came from two people
familiar with the matter. They said that Dubai also intends to
inject $100 million of new financing. For Bloomberg coverage,
click here.  
 The filed plan would have given ownership to the senior
secured creditors, leaving second-lien creditors with warrants
for three percent of the equity value above $325 million. The
disclosure statement projected that junior lenders would have
recovered 2.2 percent under the existing plan. The junior
lenders were opposing the plan and believed that Almatis had a
value greater than the $540 million originally claimed by the
company.  
 Almatis told the bankruptcy judge in June that new
financing was in the works.  
 Junior lenders include affiliates of Babson Capital
Management LLC, Alcentra Group Ltd., and Permira Advisers LLP.  
 Almatis filed under Chapter 11 on April 30 with the plan
already negotiated with holders of first-lien debt. Dubai
International bought the Almatis business in 2007 for $1.2
billion. For details on the existing plan, click here for the
April 30 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 Almatis’ revenue in 2009 was $400 million. For 2010,
projected revenue is $534 million. Almatis began defaulting on
senior debt in June 2009.  
 Rotterdam-based Almatis listed total debt of $1.3 billion,
including $681 million on first-lien obligations, $77.7 million
on second-lien debt, and $200.6 million on mezzanine debt. There
is junior mezzanine debt of $80.6 million, plus trade debt of
$20 million. Assets were listed for assets $1.53 billion.  
 The case is In re Almatis BV, 10-12308, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  
 Lake Las Vegas Creditors Sue Bass Brothers for $469MM  
 The reorganization of the  Lake Las Vegas  Resort is a vivid
demonstration of the value of releases given as part of a
confirmed Chapter 11 plan.  
 The resort, 17 miles from the Las Vegas Strip, implemented
the confirmed Chapter 11 plan on July 15. The next day, the
trustee for a creditors’ trust sued  Sid Bass ,  Lee Bass , and
other former owners of the project for at least $469 million.  
 The suit contends that a $560 million loan to the project
in October 2004 by  Credit Suisse Group AG  was a fraudulent
transfer because $469 million went to the owners, leaving the
project insolvent.  
 As part of a settlement with secured creditors underlying
the Chapter 11 plan, the creditors agreed not to sue Credit
Suisse. The lenders were owed $626 million.  
 For details on the resort’s reorganization plan, click here
for the June 22 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 The development is a 3,600-acre master-planned community
with a 320-acre man-made lake next to the Lake Mead National
Recreational Area. It has three golf course, two hotels, a
casino, retail stores and more than 1,600 completed residential
units. The Chapter 11 filing was in July 2008.  
 The case is Lake at Las Vegas Joint Venture LLC, 08-17814,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  
 Black Crow’s Second Exclusivity May Be the Last  
 Black Crow Media Group LLC , a closely held owner of 22
radio stations, was given a second and evidently last extension
of the exclusive right to propose a Chapter 11 plan even though
the case isn’t yet seven months old.  
 Black Crow explained in the second of its so-called
exclusivity motions how it’s been consumed since the start of
the Chapter 11 case in litigation with  General Electric Capital
Corp ., the secured lender owed $38.9 million at the outset.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Paul M. Glenn  extended exclusivity
until Nov. 8. Glenn told the Daytona Beach, Florida-based
company in a July 21 order that there won’t be another extension
“unless truly extraordinary circumstances occur which could not
have been reasonably anticipated.”  
 In March, Black Crow beat back a motion by Stamford,
Connecticut-based GECC to dismiss the case or allow foreclosure.  
 Black Crow filed for Chapter 11 protection in January, two
days before a hearing in U.S. district court where GECC was
seeking appointment of a receiver following default on the term
loans and revolving credit.  
 Black Crow’s stations are in five markets in Florida,
Alabama, Georgia and Tennessee. In addition to the GECC debt,
another $6 million is owing to unsecured creditors. Daytona
Beach, Florida-based Black Crow had $12.9 million of revenue in
2009, a 23 percent decline from 2008.  
 The case is In re Black Crow Media Group LLC, 10-00172,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Middle District Florida (Jacksonville).  
 General Growth to Arbitrate With Hughes Investors  
 General Growth Properties Inc.  was rebuffed yesterday by
the bankruptcy judge, who ruled that an arbitration panel could
decide the basis for the claim that former investors of Hughes
Corp. will receive under the Chapter 11 plan.  
 Hughes Corp., some of whose investors include heirs of the
late Howard Hughes, owned a master-planned community outside Las
Vegas named Summerlin. The 22,500-acre project eventually will
have a population exceeding 200,000.  
 Through a predecessor, General Growth acquired Hughes Corp.
under an agreement that provided for paying the purchase price
over 14 years. For the last payment at the end of 2009, the
Hughes investors were to be paid approximately half of the fair
market value of the remaining assets, plus other items such as
excess cash flow.  
 If there were disagreement over the final payment, the 1996
agreement calls for the amount of determined by a panel of
independent appraisers.  
 The Hughes investors filed a motion in June asking the
bankruptcy judge to force General Growth into the appraisal
proceeding. General Growth responded by urging the judge to
estimate the claim in bankruptcy court. At yesterday’s hearing,
the judge concluded that an arbitration wouldn’t prevent
confirmation of the reorganization plan in October.  
 At the hearing the judge also approved replacement
financing reducing the interest rate by 8 percent on $400
million in debt for the reorganization.  
 Since Chapter 11 in April 2009, General Growth has been
paying interest on the so-called DIP loan at an interest rate 12
percentage points higher than the London interbank borrowed
rate. The new loan from Barclays Bank PLC will have a 5.5
percent fixed rate, saving General Growth $2.7 million a month
in interest.  
 General Growth’s property-owning subsidiaries already have
confirmed Chapter 11 plans paying their creditors in full. The
four top-tier companies filed a plan this month also promising
full payment while preserving some of the stock for existing
shareholders. The plan is financed with an $8.55 billion debt
and equity commitment from a group led by  Brookfield Asset
Management Inc.  Teacher Retirement System of Texas has a
separate commitment to buy $500 million of new stock at $10.25 a
share.  
 General Growth hopes to emerge from reorganization in
October and remain the second-largest mall owner in the U.S.
with 180 properties in 43 states.  
 General Growth began the largest real-estate reorganization
in history by filing under Chapter 11 in April 2009. The books
of Chicago-based General Growth had assets of $29.6 billion and
total liabilities of $27.3 billion as of Dec. 31, 2008.  
 The case is In re General Growth Properties Inc., 09-11977,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 Rangers’ August 4 Auction Won’t Be Delayed, Judge Says  
 The bankruptcy judge heard three days of testimony before
ruling yesterday that the auction for the  Texas Rangers  baseball
team will proceed as scheduled on Aug. 4. Later the same day,
the team wants the judge in Fort Worth, Texas, to approve the
reorganization plan by signing a confirmation order.  
 Secured lenders owed $525 million and the chief
restructuring officer for the team’s two partnership owners both
wanted the auction delayed so competing bidders would have more
time.  
 The chief restructuring officer sustained a second loss
when the bankruptcy judge later in the day refused to hold an
accelerated hearing on the motion for permission to seek
substantive consolidation of the team with the two partnerships
that own it.  
 The judge cited a federal appeals court which said that
substantive consolidation is “a rough justice remedy of last
resort.” The judge said litigation over substantive
consolidation should only occur “after the parties have had an
ample opportunity to develop the facts.”  
 The Rangers reported a $4.83 million net loss in June on
revenue of $78.7 million. Interest expense in the month was
$4.88 million. Depreciation expense was $2.52 million.  
 Mark Cuban, the owner of the National Basketball
Association’s Dallas Mavericks, was cleared by Major League
Baseball to participate in the Rangers auction. Through a
lawyer, Cuban said he hadn’t decided yet whether to bid. To read
Bloomberg coverage, click here.  
 The Rangers filed under Chapter 11 on May 24 with a
contract selling the team to a group including current team
President  Nolan Ryan  and sports lawyer  Chuck Greenberg .  
 The price was raised to $306.7 million cash. The lenders
would recover $256 million, according to the team’s disclosure
statement based on the original contract for $304 million. The
Rangers moved from Washington to Texas in 1972. The team
defaulted on payments owing to the lenders in March 2009.  
 Michael “Buzz” Rochelle, a brother of Bloomberg reporter
Bill Rochelle, is a lawyer for an agent for the lenders. The
partnership that owns the team is Texas Rangers Baseball
Partners.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  
 Sawgrass Marriott Has $1.71 Million June Net Loss  
 The  Sawgrass Marriott Resort  in Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida,
generated revenue of $3.27 million in June and reported a $1.71
million net loss for the month, according to an operating report
filed in bankruptcy court on July 21.  
 Net operating income in the month was $305,000 and earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization were
$197,000. Interest expense was $1.32 million while depreciation
and amortization totaled $584,000.  
 The resort’s owner estimates the property is worth $90
million. The lender values it at $135.3 million. The resort
filed under Chapter 11 on March 1 in Jacksonville, Florida,
saying assets and debt both exceed $100 million.  
 The case is In re RQB Resort LP, 10-01596, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Middle District of Florida (Jacksonville).  
 Centaur Allowing Creditor Suit on Lien Invalidity  
 Casino and racetrack operator Centaur LLC doesn’t object to
allowing the official creditors’ committee to file suit over
what the panel says are defects in the security interests on
$192 million in collateral claimed by the first-and second-lien
lenders.  
 The company doesn’t believe success in the suit would take
more than $15 million away from the lenders because their claims
are so much larger than those of unsecured creditors.
Consequently, Centaur doesn’t want a suit to delay what it hopes
will be a Sept. 23 confirmation hearing for approval of a
Chapter 11 plan.  
 While not opposing a creditors’ suit, Centaur doesn’t want
the committee to have exclusive right to settle with the
lenders. The company wants to retain the right to settle.  
 Centaur says the assets aren’t worth enough to pay even the
first-lien debt in full.  
 Centaur has a July 28 hearing for approval for auction and
sales procedures pertaining to the Fortune Valley Hotel & Casino
40 miles west of Denver. The initial bid will come from Luna
Gaming Central City LLC. The price is $7.5 million cash plus a
$2.5 million note, less adjustments.  
 Subsidiaries Centaur PA Land LP and Valley View Downs LP
filed for bankruptcy reorganization in October to keep alive a
project to develop a racetrack in Pennsylvania. Centaur LLC and
12 affiliates filed Chapter 11 petitions in March. All of the
companies are subsidiaries of closely held Centaur Inc., which
isn’t in bankruptcy.  
 The March filings listed assets of $584 million and debt of
$681 million. The newer cases resulted from the failure to make
payments due in October on a $382.5 million first-lien debt and
a $192 million second-lien credit. The companies have horse
racing and gambling facilities in five markets in Indiana and
Colorado. They are developing a property in Pennsylvania to be
called  Valley View Downs and Casino . It is 55 miles from
Pittsburg.  
 The companies own Hoosier Park, a casino and horse
racetrack, in Anderson, Indiana, along with three off-track
betting parlors in Indiana. They also own Fortune Valley Hotel &
Casino in Central City, Colorado, which has a 118-room hotel to
complement the casino. The companies generated revenue of $277.5
million in 2009.  
 The newer case is Centaur LLC, 10-10799, and the first case
was In re Centaur PA Land LP, 09-13760, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Brown’s President Takes Most Assets at Auction  
 Brown Publishing Co. , the publisher of the largest-
circulation local newspaper on eastern Long Island, named  The
Delphos Herald Inc.  as the winner of the July 19 auction for
three of its publications in Ohio. Delphos offered $3.59 million
cash.  
 The winner of the auction for the remainder of the assets
was a group including Roy Brown, the president and chief
executive. The winning bid was $22.41 million plus $900,000 in
assumption or waiver of debt. Before the auction, the Brown
group was under contract for $15.9 million.  
 The hearing for approval of the sale began yesterday and
will continue July 29.  
 Brown publishes  Dan’s Papers , the weekly newspaper with the
largest circulation on eastern Long Island, New York. It also
publishes the  Montauk Pioneer .  
 Based in Cincinnati, closely held Brown listed assets of
$94 million against debt totaling $104.6 million. First-lien
lenders are owed $70.2 million on a revolving credit and term
loan. Second-lien lenders are owed $24.3 million.  
 Brown has 15 publications that produced daily, 32 weeklies,
and 41 given away for free. It also has 11 business publications
in seven states, and 51 web sites. Seventy-eight of the
publications are in Ohio.  
 The case is In re Brown Publishing Co., 10-73295, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District New York (Central Islip).  
 National Envelope Action Set for August 20  
 National Envelope Corp. will hold a  auction on Aug. 20 to
learn whether the $134.5 million opening bid from Gores Group
LLC is the best offer for the business.  
 The bankruptcy judge in Delaware approved procedures
yesterday requiring other bids by Aug. 16. The hearing for
approval of the sale will be Aug. 23.  
 Competitor Cenveo Corp. unsuccessfully opposed giving Gores
a breakup fee if it’s outbid at auction. Cenveo promises to bid
more at the auction. For Bloomberg coverage of the hearing,
click here.  
 National Envelope, which calls itself the largest closely
held envelope manufacturer in the U.S., filed under Chapter 11
on June 10. The loan agreement with  General Electric Capital
Corp ., the lenders’ agent, required having sale procedures by
July 16.  
 Based in Uniondale, New York, National Envelope has 14
manufacturing plants in 11 states, plus three warehouses. Sales
in 2009 were $676 million, resulting in a $44.2 million net
loss. The petition says assets and debt are both less than $500
million. Liabilities include $74.3 million on a secured term
loan, $70.6 million on a secured revolving credit, and $89
million owing on unsecured debts to trade suppliers.  
 The case is In re NEC Holdings Corp., 10-11890, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Third Meruelo Maddux Properties Reorganization Plan Possible  
 Although two plans were already filed for  Meruelo Maddux
Properties Inc. , the official creditors’ committee is supporting
a motion by secured creditors for permission to propose a third.  
 Lenders Legendary Investors Group No. 1 LLC and East West
Bank have a motion to be considered at an Aug. 2 hearing. Their
proposed plan for the Los Angeles-based developer and manager of
commercial and multi-family residential property would include a
$5 million cash injection and conversion of $65 million of debt
into equity.  
 While the committee hasn’t finished its analysis of the
merits of the three plans, the panel sees the lenders’ plan as
“far superior” because it would pay unsecured creditors in
full “shortly after” confirmation. The company’s plan would
pay unsecured creditors over five years, with 4 percent
interest.  
 The other plan is by existing shareholders Charlestown
Capital Advisors LLC and Hartland Asset Management Corp. The
creditors’ committee admits that the shareholders’ plan would
give the reorganized company more liquidity from a $30 million
cash infusion at confirmation.  
 The company opposes allowing a third plan, saying there
would be “chaos.”  
 The bankruptcy court in Woodland Hills, California, began
allowing other plans in May. The Chapter 11 petition filed in
March 2009 listed assets of $682 million against debt totaling
$342 million.  
 The case is In re Meruelo Maddux Properties Inc., 09-13356,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Central District California (Woodland
Hills).  
 Point Blank Loan Amendment Requires Sale in September  
 Point Blank Solutions Inc. , a manufacturer of soft body
armor for the military and law enforcement, admitted violating
some of the financial performance requirements in the $20
million loan provided by Steele Partners LLC to finance the
Chapter 11 case. Steele is a New York-based private equity fund.  
 Steele and Point Blank agreed to an amendment of the loan
agreement committing the company to a schedule for selling the
business. The amendment would also waive the covenant violation.
Steele, according to the creditors’ committee, controls the
Point Blank board.  
 If the amendment is approved by the bankruptcy court at a
hearing Point Blank hopes will be held on Aug. 3, the revised
loan will compel the company to have a letter of intent laying
out terms of sale by Sept. 15 and a motion by Sept. 30 to
approve an asset-purchase agreement. Alternatively, Point Bank
could file a Chapter 11 plan and disclosure statement by Sept.
30.  
 A sale must provide for full payment of the loan for the
Chapter 11 case, the amended loan agreement says. Point Blank
said the schedule is “achievable” absent “unforeseen
circumstances.”  
 At the Aug. 3 hearing, the creditors’ committee will argue
in favor of its motion for the appointment of a Chapter 11
trustee. The company said the motion was based on “reckless
accusations with no factual basis whatsoever.”  
 Point Blank has a plant and head office in Pompano Beach,
Florida, and a second plant in Jacksboro, Tennessee. Revenue in
2009 was more than $153 million. The petition listed assets of
$64 million against debt totaling $68.5 million. Debt included a
$10.5 million secured loan to be paid off by financing for the
Chapter 11 case. Point Blank said it also owes $28.2 million to
trade suppliers. Three former officers were indicted on charges
of securities fraud.  
 The case is In re Point Blank Solutions Inc., 10-11255,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware.  
 Watch List  
 Harrah’s Cash Flow ‘Insufficient,’ Moody’s Says  
 Harrah’s Entertainment Inc ., the casino owner acquired in
January 2008 by  Apollo Management LP  and TPG Inc. in a $27.2
billion transaction, is burdened with “significant debt” that
leaves the company with “insufficient free cash flow for
maintenance of existing assets or growth initiatives,” Moody’s
Investors Service said in a report yesterday.  
 Moody’s predicts that Harrah’s “will likely need to reduce
debt by selling assets, going public, or restructuring its debt
burden.” Moody’s believes restructuring “would likely result
in impairment to debt holder claims.”  
 Harrah’s $19.25 billion in long-term debt consumes about 90
percent of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, “leaving insufficient free cash flow for debt
reduction or capital spending,” Moody’s said. Moody’s also said
that Harrah’s “isn’t investing enough in its properties.”  
 Harrah’s had a $193.6 million net loss in the first quarter
on net revenue of $2.19 billion.  
 Harrah’s properties include Caesar’s Palace, Bally’s,
Flamingo, Harrah’s, Paris and Planet Hollywood in Las Vegas.
There are seven other properties in Nevada plus 21 in other
markets around the U.S.  
 Moody’s has the corporate credit rating at Caa3.  
 Boston Generating Has ‘Too Much Debt,’ S&P Says  
 Boston Generating LLC, the owner of 3,000 megawatts of
generating capacity, has “too much debt to be supported by the
current and prospective market economics,” in the judgment of
Standard & Poor’s.  
 The company is in restructuring discussions with holders of
first-lien, second-lien and mezzanine debt, S&P said in a report
yesterday. S&P warned that it may lower the current CCC+ rating
on the $1.13 billion first-lien debt. The rating for the $350
million second-lien debt is CC.  
 S&P said there is “increasing uncertainty” about the
outcome of the restructuring talks.  
 Boston Generating is a unit of New York-based  US Power
Generating Co.   
 New Filings  
 Bank Owner Nexity Files Prepack in Delaware  
 Nexity Financial Corp. , describing itself as a leading
provider of capital and support services for community banks,
filed a prepackaged Chapter 11 petition yesterday in Delaware to
implement a reorganization that was already accepted by holders
of 96 percent of the $22 million in trust preferred securities
who voted on the plan.  
 Nextity also owes $14.2 million to the secured creditor
Bank of America NA. The bank also accepted the plan.  
 The plan will pay 15 percent in cash to holders of the
trust preferred securities, unless they elect to take new stock
instead. Bank of America is to receive $3.82 million unless it
too elects stock instead.  
 The plan is to be financed by the sale of at least $175
million in new stock through a private placement.  
 Nexity is aiming for the bankruptcy court to approve the
disclosure statement and the plan at one hearing on Aug. 27.  
 Birmingham, Alabama-based Nexity had net losses of $26
million in 2009 and $13 million in 2008.  
 Nexity hasn’t filed quarterly reports with the Securities
and Exchange Commission since the quarter ended September 2008.
The bank subsidiary, Nexity Bank, is operating under a cease and
desist order issued by regulators.  
 The stock sporadically traded after May around 15 or 16
cents a share in the over-the-counter market.  
 The case is In re Nexity Financial Corp., 10-12293, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Charlotte’s EpiCentre Owner Files in Chapter 11  
 Pacific Avenue LLC and an affiliate, the owners of
 EpiCentre  in Charlotte, North Carolina, filed a Chapter 11
petition yesterday in their hometown, owing $87.1 million to the
secured lender Regions Bank.  
 The office, retail and entertainment complex has 302,000
rentable square feet, a court filing says.  
 Financial problems result in part from the bankruptcy of
the developer that was to construct residential housing using
air rights on the project.  
 For other Bloomberg coverage, click here.  
 The case is In re Pacific Avenue LLC, 10-32093, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Western District of North Carolina
(Charlotte).  
 Daily Podcast  
 Mexico’s Vitro, Lehman’s $19 Billion Cash, Rangers: Audio  
 Public disputes in the workout for  Vitro SAB , cash for
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  and subsidiaries growing to almost
$19 billion, and predictions about the outcome of the  Texas
Rangers  reorganization are discussed in the new bankruptcy
podcast on the Bloomberg terminal and Bloomberglaw.com. To
listen, click here.  
 Advance Sheets  
 Leverage Over Shareholders No Basis for Chapter 11  
 Although a company need not be insolvent to file in Chapter
11, the reorganization can be dismissed if the primary purpose
is to obtain an unfair advantage in shareholder litigation, U.S.
District Judge  Sim Lake  in Houston ruled on July 21.  
 The bankruptcy judge had confirmed a Chapter 11 plan. On an
appeal taken by shareholders, the district judge reversed the
confirmation order approving the Chapter 11 plan and remanded
the case so the bankruptcy judge could decide whether to appoint
a Chapter 11 trustee or dismiss the case.  
 After a hearing following remand, the bankruptcy judge
concluded that the Chapter 11 petition was designed “to gain an
unfair advantage in the shareholder litigation.” The bankruptcy
judge also determined from the facts that there was “the
absence of any clear need for financial reorganization.”  
 The bankruptcy judge dismissed the case, and Lake affirmed
based on the conclusion that the Chapter 11 filing was not in
good faith.  
 Although the Bankruptcy Code does not have a specific
requirement that a bankruptcy filing must be in good faith,
courts traditionally rule that a bankruptcy case can be
dismissed for lack of good faith.  
 The case is Antelope Technologies Inc. v. Lowe (In re
Antelope Technologies Inc.), 10-0205, U.S. District Court,
Southern District Texas (Houston).  
 Hamilton v. Lanning Applies on Expenses Too, 6th Says  
 The U.S. Court of Appeals in Cincinnati answered a question
the U.S. Supreme Court didn’t directly address last month in a
case called Hamilton v. Lanning. Where the Supreme Court held
that actual income must be taken into consideration in deciding
how much an individual must pay unsecured creditors in Chapter
13, the 6th Circuit ruled yesterday that actual expenses must be
in the calculation.  
 The case involved a husband and wife who owned two homes,
both with mortgages. They intended during bankruptcy to turn the
homes over to the lenders, thus eliminating $2,700 in monthly
mortgage payments.  
 The bankruptcy judge, in confirming a Chapter 11 plan
before the Supreme Court decided Hamilton v. Lanning, deducted
the mortgage payments in calculating projected disposable
monthly income.  
 Although this year’s Supreme Court case only involved
income, the 6th Circuit said the same rule must apply to
expenses. The case was reversed and sent back to the bankruptcy
court to determine the bankrupts’ actual income and expenses.  
 The case is Darrohn v. Hildebrand (In re Darrohn), 6th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals (Cincinnati).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        