-- ABN Amro Accused in Singapore Lawsuit of Misrepresenting Lehman Investment
-- Andrea Tan
-- 2010-07-23T02:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/abn-amro-accused-in-singapore-lawsuit-of-misrepresenting-lehman-investment.html

          
          
             Langeford Capital Ltd., owned by
Bangladeshi businessman Anis Ahmed, sued ABN Amro Bank NV in
Singapore, claiming the bank negligently misrepresented a  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  investment as safe.  
 Ahmed, through Langeford, lost $1 million after being
“induced” by ABN Amro in Jan. 2008 to invest in a product
which had ‘hardly any downside,’” according to court papers
filed with the Singapore High Court. Amsterdam-based ABN Amro
made “false and untrue and inaccurate and misleading”
representations and failed to disclose the product was issued by
Lehman, Langeford said in court papers.  
 Wealthy Asian clients have sued financial institutions
including  Citigroup Inc ., UBS AG and Morgan Stanley after Lehman
Brothers collapsed in Sept. 2008, precipitating a global credit
crisis that erased $1.8 trillion in fortunes.  
 ABN Amro was “well aware” of Ahmed’s low-risk appetite
and that he was “particularly wary” of investments involving
U.S. companies, having lost money when technology stocks
collapsed beginning in 2000, according to court papers. Ahmed
hadn’t seen the term sheet and believed the investment was
issued by ABN Amro, according to the court papers.  
 The investment was based on a comparison of the performance
of the  Philadelphia Housing Index  against two Hong Kong-based
companies.  
 ABN Amro’s private banking operations in Singapore declined
to comment in an e-mailed statement as did Ahmed’s lawyer Suresh
Divyanathan.  
 Mitigating Losses  
 The bank failed to advise Ahmed he could mitigate his
losses by selling the investment before it matured, subject to
penalties, according to court papers.  
 ABN Amro has disputed Ahmed’s claims and said Langeford and
the businessman were “high net worth, experienced and
sophisticated investors with a reasonable appetite for risk.”  
 They relied on their own judgments to make investments,
according to the bank’s defense. Ahmed, who has about $8 million
of assets with other Singapore financial institutions, told ABN
Amro to “make his money work,” the bank said.  
 Ahmed had returned the product term sheet which said
the issuer was Lehman, the bank said.  
 The case is Langeford Capital Ltd. vs ABN Amro Bank NV
S173/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  
 For Related News and Information:
Top legal stories: TLAW <GO>
Finance-related government news: TCNI FIN GOV <GO>
ABN Litigation Summary: 3531454Z NA <Equity> LITI <GO>  
          
          


  


        