-- Thailand Economy May Expand Most in 7 Years on Exports, Central Bank Says
-- Suttinee Yuvejwattana
-- 2010-07-23T08:25:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/thailand-economy-may-expand-most-in-7-years-on-exports-central-bank-says.html

          
          
             Thailand’s central bank expects the
economy to expand the most in at least seven years in 2010 as an
export rebound limited the impact from deadly political protests.  
 Gross domestic product  may expand 6.5 percent to 7.5
percent, Assistant Governor  Paiboon Kittisrikangwan  said in
Bangkok today. That compares with an April forecast for growth
of 4.3 percent to 5.8 percent.  
 The  Bank of Thailand  raised  borrowing costs  this month for
the first time in almost two years after the political violence
that killed 89 people in April and May ended without derailing
the economy. Deputy Governor  Bandid Nijathaworn  said July 20 the
rate increase “won’t be a one-time event” and will continue if
economic conditions remain strong.  
 “There is upside potential” for Thai economic growth with
the strength in exports and recovering local demand,  Wellian Wiranto , an economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in Singapore, said
before the central bank’s announcement. “Another 25 basis-point
rise in late August looks almost certain now. Increasingly, the
strength in the economy may warrant another hike after that.”  
 The Thai baht has climbed 3.2 percent this year, the third-
best performer among 10 Asian currencies outside Japan. The
benchmark stock index is up 14 percent.  
 Thai  overseas sales  rose 46.3 percent in June, the most in
more than 18 years, to a record $18.04 billion, prompting the
government to raise its 2010 export growth target to 19 percent.
The central bank forecasts shipments will grow as much as 27.5
percent this year.  
 Capacity Expansion  
 “Private investment will pick up as rising demand for
exports encourages companies to expand capacity,” Paiboon said.
“Capacity utilization in many industries is nearly full now.”  
 The central bank on July 14 raised the benchmark rate to
1.5 percent from 1.25 percent, which was the lowest level since
July 2004, after keeping it unchanged in the previous nine
meetings. HSBC’s Wiranto expects the policy rate to rise to 2
percent by the year-end. The next policy meeting is on Aug. 25.  
 Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  this week reiterated his
target of 6 percent economic growth this year, which would be
the fastest pace since 2004. The International Monetary Fund on
July 16 raised its 2010 forecast to as much as 8 percent, citing
exports and rising private investment. Southeast Asia’s largest
economy after Indonesia shrank 2.2 percent in 2009.  
 Tourism Rebound  
 “The impact of recent political unrest on the overall
economy is limited,” Paiboon said. “The hardest-hit tourism
sector also showed signs of a fast recovery while consumption
and investment were only slightly impacted.”  
 Tourist arrivals rose 14 percent in the first half, even
after deadly street protests shut down parts of Bangkok in April
and May, the Tourism Authority of Thailand said yesterday.  
 Thai lenders including  Bangkok Bank  Pcl, the nation’s
biggest, reported higher second-quarter profit as the improving
economy boosted demand for loans. The $272 billion economy grew
12 percent in the first quarter, the fastest pace since 1995.  
 Consumer prices  rose for a ninth month June, climbing 3.3
percent from a year earlier. Inflation may average 3.8 percent
this year, while  core inflation , which excludes fresh food and
fuel prices, may be as much as 1.3 percent, the central bank
said today. The monetary policy target is to keep the increase
in core prices under 3 percent.  
 The economy probably expanded more than 7 percent in the
second quarter, and about 10 percent over the first half of this
year, the Bank of Thailand said. It kept its estimate for 2001
economic growth at 3 percent to 5 percent.  
 Abhisit said yesterday the Thai political situation “is
improving” after the Cabinet earlier this week lifted the
emergency decree in three provinces. Emergency rules remain in
16 provinces, including Bangkok.  
 “Our political situation has stabilized,” the central
bank’s Paiboon said today. “But it’s still uncertain what the
situation will be in the future.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        