-- Akzo Nobel to Consider Future of U.S. Paint Unit Once Overhaul Is Complete
-- Martijn van der Starre
-- 2010-07-23T08:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/akzo-nobel-to-consider-future-of-u-s-paint-unit-once-overhaul-is-complete.html

          
          
             Akzo Nobel NV , the world’s biggest
paint maker, will examine all options for its U.S. Glidden brand
once an overhaul to improve margins is completed, according to
Chief Executive Officer  Hans Wijers .  
 “We’re very committed to building that business, to make
it healthy and profitable again,”  Wijers  said on a conference
call today. “And once we’ll get there, we’ll take another close
look at all the strategic options on the table.”  
 Selling or finding a partner for Glidden could provide a 9
percent boost to Akzo’s market value, Nomura analyst  Jennifer Barker  said in a note. The Dutch company acquired the U.S. unit
through its $15.9 billion purchase of Britain’s Imperial
Chemical Industries at the start of 2008, prior to the slowdown
in consumer spending and construction that hurt paint demand.  
 Wijers last year cut jobs in the U.S. and closed company-
owned paint stores to combat higher raw-material costs. Revenue
from household paint -- which includes the Martha Stewart Living
line sold in Home Depot Inc. stores, as well as fillers and
varnishes -- totaled 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion) in the
Americas region last year.  
 “Akzo Nobel’s position in the U.S., especially the deco
side, is relatively too weak compared with Asia and Europe,”
said  Tom Muller , an Amsterdam-based based  analyst  at Theodoor
Gilissen Bankiers NV. “If you’re the market leader worldwide,
then it would be best to also try to be that in the U.S. I
expect Akzo to do additional takeovers in the U.S. by the end of
this year or by the start of next year.”  
 Earnings Beat  
 Akzo said it’s continuing an overhaul of its decorative
paint operations in Europe amid stagnant  sales  in the region.
The owner of the Dulux paint brand reached its target of
increasing profit to 14 percent of sales more than one year
ahead of schedule. The company will give an update on its
medium-term goals on Sept. 28.  
 “The developed markets remain challenging,” Wijers said.
“Raw-material  price  pressure and shortages are expected to
continue into the third quarter. We will keep a careful eye on
the trading environment and costs will continue to be managed
aggressively.”  
 Demand for performance coatings and specialty chemicals
helped offset a weaker U.S. paint market, where Akzo Nobel
competes with PPG Industries Inc.  
 Second-quarter profit beat analysts’  estimates . Net income
was 273 million euros compared with 155 million euros a year
earlier. That exceeded the 190 million-euro average estimate of
10 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  
 Akzo, whose roots date back to 1777 when Jacob Holmblad of
Denmark started a textile dye-maker, rose 4.7 percent to 46.36
euros as of 10:42 a.m. local time in  Amsterdam  trading, giving
it a market value of about 11 billion euros.  
 Overall, sales advanced 13 percent to 3.91 billion euros in
the quarter.  
 Takeovers  
 Akzo plans to invest in Brazil and southeast Asia to build
out brands in those regions.  
 Selective acquisitions will continue, Chief Financial
Officer  Keith Nichols  said on an analyst call. A priority is to
protect liquidity given uncertainty in the financial markets,
though there’s no ceiling on the size of an acquisition target,
Wijers said.  
 Akzo agreed last month to sell the remnants of a food-
starch business inherited during the purchase of ICI.  
 “We expect Akzo Nobel to be ready for additional
takeovers,” Theodoor Gilissen’s Muller said in a note to
investors. “We prefer strengthening of its position in the U.S.
and especially in decorative paint.” He rates Akzo “hold.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Martijn van der Starre  at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        