-- Alarms Were Disabled on Transocean's Gulf Oil Rig
-- Mark Chediak
-- 2010-07-23T23:05:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/alarms-were-disabled-on-transocean-gulf-oil-rig-for-year-before-explosion.html

          
          
             Certain alarms on Transocean Ltd.’s
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig had been disabled for a year
before it exploded and sank in the Gulf of Mexico, causing the
biggest U.S. oil spill in history, a rig worker said.  
 The sound and visual alarms would’ve warned all crew
members of a fire or a large amount of explosive gas and were
connected to an emergency air-vent shutdown system, Mike
Williams, chief electronics technician for Geneva-based
 Transocean , said at a U.S. Coast Guard and Interior Department
joint investigation hearing today in Kenner, Louisiana.  
 Transocean responded in an e-mailed statement that alarms
on the rig were in good condition and were not bypassed. The
general alarm system on the Deepwater Horizon rig was
“intentional and conforms to accepted maritime practices,”
according to the statement.  
 The rig had “hundreds of individual fire and gas alarms,
all of which were tested, in good condition, not bypassed and
monitored from the bridge,” the Transocean statement said.  
 Williams said supervisors told him when he discovered the
issue that “they didn’t want people woken up at 3 a.m. to false
alarms.” A computer system would’ve still detected high levels
of gas or a fire, Williams said.  
 More Hearings Set  
 The  panel  is investigating what caused the rig, which was
leased to BP Plc, to explode on April 20 about 40 miles (64
kilometers) off the coast of Louisiana. The incident killed 11
workers. Today is the final day of a third round of hearings,
which began in May. Another week of hearings has been scheduled
in Houston next month.  
 Rig operators were assigned to monitor the computer system
and announced the fire over a public-address system on the day
of the blast, Ned Kohnke, Transocean’s attorney, said at the
hearing today.  
 “Several witnesses have testified of having heard ‘fire,
fire, fire’ over the PA system and alarms,” Kohnke said during
an interview on the sidelines of the hearing.  
 Williams, who has filed a lawsuit against Transocean and
BP, said he never heard a general alarm. After being slammed
across a control room by a fire door that came off during the
initial explosion, Williams said he reported to a secondary
emergency station on the bridge.  
 “I couldn’t breathe, I couldn’t see,” Williams said
today. He eventually jumped off the burning rig after helping
other injured workers on lifeboats. He was rescued by a person
in a small boat, who helped him cut loose another raft of
workers that was tethered to the rig.  
 Other Alarms Sounded  
 Other alarms on the rig were triggered before the vessel
caught fire, said Williams, a former Marine who was responsible
for maintaining the fire and gas systems on the Deepwater
Horizon. The rig was behind schedule for repairs, he said.  
 Transocean  fell  $1.41, or 3 percent, to $45.26 at 4:14 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The company has
lost half its value since the explosion aboard the rig.  
 BP fell 1.4 pence to 398.6 pence in London trading and is
down 39 percent since April 20. The company’s  American
depositary receipts , which are equal to six ordinary BP shares,
rose 63 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $36.86 in New York.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Chediak  in New Orleans at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Fire boat response crews battle the blazing remnants of the off shore oil rig Deepwater Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 21. Source: U.S. Coast Guard via Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
