-- Altria, Anadarko, Motorola, AstraZeneca, Presidential Life in Court News
-- Elizabeth Amon
-- 2010-07-23T12:18:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/altria-anadarko-motorola-astrazeneca-presidential-life-in-court-news.html

          
          
             Langeford Capital Ltd., owned by
Bangladeshi businessman Anis Ahmed, sued ABN Amro Bank NV in
Singapore, claiming the bank negligently misrepresented a  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  investment as safe.  
 Ahmed, through Langeford, lost $1 million after being
“induced” by ABN Amro in January 2008 to invest in a product
which had ‘hardly any downside,’” according to court papers
filed with the Singapore High Court. Amsterdam-based ABN Amro
made “false and untrue and inaccurate and misleading”
representations and failed to disclose the product was issued by
Lehman, Langeford said in court papers.  
 Wealthy Asian clients have sued financial institutions
including  Citigroup Inc ., UBS AG and Morgan Stanley after Lehman
Brothers collapsed in September 2008, precipitating a global
credit crisis that erased $1.8 trillion in fortunes.  
 ABN Amro was “well aware” of Ahmed’s low-risk appetite
and that he was “particularly wary” of investments involving
U.S. companies, having lost money when technology stocks
collapsed beginning in 2000, according to court papers. Ahmed
hadn’t seen the term sheet and believed the investment was
issued by ABN Amro, according to the court papers.  
 ABN Amro’s private banking operations in Singapore declined
to comment in an e-mailed statement as did Ahmed’s lawyer Suresh
Divyanathan.  
 ABN Amro has disputed Ahmed’s claims and said Langeford and
the businessman were “high net worth, experienced and
sophisticated investors with a reasonable appetite for risk.”  
 The case is Langeford Capital Ltd. vs ABN Amro Bank NV
S173/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  
 For more, click here.  
 Trials/Appeals  
 Mattel Loses Appeal Ruling Over Ownership of MGA’s Bratz Dolls  
 Mattel Inc. must retry its claims to MGA Entertainment
Inc.’s Bratz dolls after an appeals court overturned a judge’s
finding that Mattel owned the ideas and work of a former
employee who first thought of the dolls.  
 The ruling may make it more difficult for corporations to
claim ownership of their employees’ ideas, particularly if they
are conceived in a private context, said Carole Handler, an
intellectual property lawyer with Lathrop and Gage LLP in Los
Angeles who isn’t involved in the case.  
 “This has enormous importance for a host of legal cases
that come up quite frequently,” Handler said in a phone
interview. “It raises many issues.”  
 The U.S. Court of Appeals in San Francisco yesterday
overturned a December 2008 order that gave Mattel the rights to
most of MGA’s Bratz products. A jury in the case found that the
designer who created the dolls was working at Mattel when he
conceived of the idea and the name and made the initial drawings
for the pouty and multiethnic girls.  
 “Even assuming that MGA took some ideas wrongfully, it
added tremendous value by turning the ideas into products and,
eventually, a popular and highly profitable brand,” the
appellate panel said in an  opinion  written by Chief Judge Alex
Kozinski. “It is not equitable to transfer this billion-dollar
brand, the value of which is overwhelmingly the result of MGA’s
legitimate efforts, because it may have started with two
misappropriated names.”  
 The appeals court said a significant part of the jury
verdict and damages award likely needs to be vacated and that
the entire case probably will need to be retried.  
 “We look forward to a full trial on all Mattel’s claims
against MGA,” El Segundo, California-based  Mattel  said
yesterday in a statement. “We believe that such a trial will
present a comprehensive and even more compelling case for Mattel
than was possible with a divided trial.”  
 Isaac Larian, founder and chief executive officer of Van
Nuys, California-based MGA, said in a statement that the company
is deeply grateful to the court for confirming “that the
American dream lives.” The company will launch a “stunning new
line of Bratz products,” Larian said.  
 The case is MGA Entertainment Inc. v. Mattel Inc., 09-
55673, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San
Francisco. The district court case is Bryant v. Mattel, 04-
09049, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Riverside).  
 For more, click here.  
 Altria Loses Bid to Set Aside Evidence in Florida Smoker Suits  
 Altria Group Inc. ’s Philip Morris USA unit and other U.S.
cigarette makers lost an appeal affecting about 4,000 Florida
smoker lawsuits in federal court.  
 A federal  appeals court  in Atlanta yesterday denied the
companies’ request to block lower courts from applying a 2006
 Florida Supreme Court  decision they claimed deprived them of
fair trials in death and injury suits filed in the state.  
 The companies said that a series of factual conclusions
endorsed by Florida’s highest court in the 2006 “Engle”
decision can’t fairly be used against them in individual
smokers’ trials. The findings included those that cigarette
makers conspired to hide information on smoking’s health effects
and that they made false statements about their products.  
 The federal court said the findings “must be given the
same preclusive effect in this federal court case that they
would be given if the case were in state court.”  
 Besides the 4,000 cases in federal courts, another 4,000
are being tried in state courts. Plaintiffs have won most of
those that have been tried.  
 The case is Brown v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., 08-16158,
11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Atlanta).  
 For more, click here.  
 Former Morgan Crucible Chief’s Trial Goes to Jury  
 A lawyer for Ian Norris told Philadelphia jurors that the
former  Morgan Crucible Co.  chief executive officer didn’t
obstruct justice in an alleged price-fixing scheme as
deliberations began in his criminal trial.  
 Norris, 67, was indicted by a U.S. grand jury in 2003 and
extradited from the U.K. in March after extensive trans-Atlantic
negotiations for a trial that began July 12.  
 When a defendant like Norris cooperatively writes up his
best account of what happened at business meetings, “that’s not
obstruction of justice, that’s following instructions,” Norris
attorney Christopher Curran told jurors yesterday in his closing
arguments.  
 Norris was the first foreign defendant to be sent back to
the U.S. to face charges arising from a criminal antitrust
investigation,  U.S. Justice Department  officials said in March.
His subordinates were alleged to have ordered destruction of
files detailing secret talks among European makers of carbon and
graphite products about fixing prices in a cartel lasting more
than a decade.  
 Norris engaged in a “sophisticated long-term scheme” to
obstruct an investigation and “persuaded his subordinates to
come along with him,” prosecuting attorney Lucy McClain said in
her summation yesterday.  
 The case is U.S. v. Ian Norris, 03-CR-632, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia.)  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  
 Lawsuits/Pretrial  
 Anadarko Plans to Meet With BP to Avoid Spill-Cost Litigation  
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. , the Texas oil company that owns a
stake in  BP Plc’s  damaged well, said it plans to meet with its
partners on the project to try to settle a dispute over spill-
related costs without going to court.  
 Chief Executive Officer Jim Hackett said he expects
“productive meetings” with BP to occur at the appropriate
time, according to testimony prepared for a Senate subcommittee
hearing yesterday. MOEX Offshore 2007 LLC, a third partner, also
would be part of the discussions, Hackett said.  
 An explosion struck the Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico
on April 20, triggering the worst oil spill in U.S. history. BP
operated the project with a 65 percent interest, while Anadarko
has 25 percent and MOEX Offshore, a unit of Japan’s  Mitsui Oil
Exploration Co. , the remaining 10 percent. Anadarko on June 18
said BP’s actions caused the spill, and both Anadarko and MOEX
Offshore have said they are withholding payments of spill costs.  
 “Under the joint operating agreement, no party is required
to pay any costs or damages to the operator to the extent that
they are incurred as a result of the operator’s gross negligence
or willful misconduct,” Hackett said in his testimony.  
 BP has said responsible parties should live up to their
obligations and that it’s evaluating its options. An agreement
among the partners calls for arbitration to resolve the
disagreement.  
 Anadarko, based in The Woodlands, Texas, is committed to
meeting its obligations under the Oil Pollution Act, Hackett
said. He said the company agreed, in a letter sent to the
Justice Department, to provide advance notice of substantial
cash or asset transfers from Anadarko that aren’t part of the
ordinary course of business.  
 Hackett said he agrees with the government approach of
dealing with BP as the primary responsible party and expects
that company to continue to honor its commitment to pay all
legitimate claims.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  
 New Suits  
 Presidential Life Sued by Former Chief Over Elections  
 Presidential Life Corp. , an insurer that reported $242.2
million in revenue last year, was sued by its former Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer Herbert Kurz, who wants to replace
the board and consider sale of the firm.  
 Presidential Life officials are trying to block his
nomination of directors by citing an unfair “advance notice
bylaw provision,” Kurz contends in a Delaware Chancery Court
complaint made public yesterday in Wilmington.  
 If elected at the Aug. 18 meeting, Kurz’s slate of eight
directors would be “committed to enhancing stockholder value by
restoring the company’s culture of stringent cost controls,
while also exploring the sale of the company or other
alternative strategies,” Kurz said in a statement July 21.  
 Kurz founded the firm and with the Kurz Family Foundation
controls more than 26 percent of the stock, according to  data
compiled  by Bloomberg News. He resigned after the New York
Insurance Department suggested in a  letter  June 3 that he
“engaged in untrustworthy conduct” in connection with company
health insurance and a charitable foundation, the company said
in a July 19 statement.  
 Kurz asks a judge to discount the company’s bylaw
interpretation in favor of his nominees or to block the annual
meeting.  
 “Clearly, Mr. Kurz did not comply with the company’s
advance notice bylaw provision and is attempting to turn back
the clock and return the company to his control,” Presidential
spokesman Greg Faje said in an e-mailed statement.  
 “Furthermore, his actions follow a recent insurance
department ruling that barred Mr. Kurz from serving as an
officer, director or controlling person of Presidential Life,”
Faje said.  
 The case is Herbert Kurz v. Presidential Life, CA5659,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  
 Motorola Accuses Huawei of Conspiring to Steal Trade Secrets  
 Motorola Inc.  sued Chinese rival Huawei Technologies Co.
for allegedly conspiring with former employees of the U.S. maker
of mobile phones and two-way radios to steal trade secrets.  
 Huawei began receiving the information as early as 2001,
Schaumburg, Illinois-based Motorola claimed in an amended
lawsuit filed July 16 in federal court in Chicago. Huawei said
the complaint has no merit. Motorola originally sued five former
workers in 2008 for allegedly taking trade secrets with them
when they left to join Lemko Corp., which has a reseller
agreement with Huawei.  
 The suit comes as security concerns undermine Huawei and
ZTE Corp., China’s two biggest network-gear makers, in their
ability to expand in some markets. India blocked domestic phone
companies from buying equipment made by Chinese vendors, people
familiar with the matter said, and U.S. government concerns over
national security led Huawei to abandon a joint bid to buy 3Com
Corp. in 2008.  
 “The complaint is groundless and utterly without merit,”
Charlie Chen, Huawei’s senior vice president of North American
marketing, said in an e-mailed statement. “Huawei has no
relationship with Lemko, other than a reseller agreement. Huawei
will vigorously defend itself against baseless allegations.”  
 The case is Motorola Inc. v. Lemko Corp., 08-cv-05427, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  
 Verdicts/Settlements  
 AstraZeneca Said to Pay $2 Million in Seroquel Cases  
 AstraZeneca Plc  agreed to pay $2 million to settle more
than 200 cases over its antipsychotic drug  Seroquel  in the first
resolution of lawsuits alleging the medicine causes diabetes,
people familiar with the accords said.  
 The settlement, which provides an average payout of more
than $10,000 per case, came as the result of a U.S. court-
ordered mediation involving 26,000 cases filed against London-
based AstraZeneca over Seroquel, the people said.  
 AstraZeneca officials declined to comment on the settlement
of the 200 Seroquel cases or the mediation ordered by a federal
judge in Florida who was overseeing all federal-court litigation
over the antipsychotic drug.  
 “AstraZeneca continues to participate in good faith in the
court-ordered mediation process,” Tony Jewell, a company
spokesman, said in an interview. “The mediator has asked the
parties to maintain the confidentiality of those discussions.
AstraZeneca will honor the mediator’s request.”  
 Lawrence J. Gornick, a San Francisco lawyer who represented
the more than 200 former Seroquel users whose cases are being
settled, didn’t return calls for comment on the accords.  
 The consolidated Seroquel case is In Re Seroquel Products
Litigation, 06-MD- 01769, U.S. District Court, Middle District
of Florida (Orlando).  
 For more, click here.  
 WBL’s Ex-CFO Lew Fined S$67,500 for Insider Trading  
 Kevin Lew Chee Fai, found liable in Singapore’s first civil
lawsuit for insider trading, was fined S$67,500 ($49,100) for
selling shares of WBL Corp., a Volvo and Jaguar car distributor.  
 “The right signal has been sent to the market,” Judge Lai
Siu Chiu said at a hearing yesterday. Lew, 50, was Singapore-
based WBL’s chief financial officer until July 2007, when he was
asked to resign.  
 The  Monetary Authority of Singapore  sued Lew, who avoided a
loss of S$27,000 by selling WBL shares two days after learning
it was forecast to report losses on July 2, 2007. The financial
regulator said after winning the case in May that insider
trading “undermines investor confidence in the integrity” of
the city’s capital markets.  
 Lew sold 90,000 WBL shares at S$4.98 each on July 4, 2007,
even after the company’s in-house lawyer said the information
shared at the meeting was price-sensitive, according to court
papers. Lew in his defense said he didn’t believe the matters
discussed on July 2, 2007, were price sensitive and sold the
shares to raise cash to exercise his WBL options.  
 Lew’s lawyer Thio Shen Yi asked Judge Lai to impose the
minimum fine of S$50,000 as Lew has been in financial hardship
since July 2007 and this was a “one-off incident.” Lew plans
to file an appeal by July 29, Thio said after the fine was
announced.  
 The case is Monetary Authority of Singapore vs Kevin Lew
Chee Fai S71/2009 in the Singapore High Court.  
 For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  
 Litigation Departments  
 Lehman Pays Bankruptcy Advisers $873.1 Million in 21 Months  
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. , the investment bank in
bankruptcy since September 2008, paid its lawyers and managers
$873.1 million for 21 1/2 months of work, or almost $1.4 million
a day.  
 The restructuring firm Alvarez & Marsal LLC, which provided
Lehman with its current chief executive officer, Bryan Marsal,
led the payments with $311.6 million in fees for “interim
management” through June, according to yesterday’s  filing  with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP  of New York collected $200.6
million for acting as Lehman’s lead bankruptcy law firm.  Milbank
Tweed Hadley & McCloy LLP  got $56.5 million for advising
Lehman’s creditors’ committee.  
 Lehman filed the biggest U.S. bankruptcy in September 2008
with assets of $639 billion. Creditors include Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.,  UBS AG , the New York Giants and Abu Dhabi Investment
Authority as well as individuals who hold Lehman bonds.  
 The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest litigation department news, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        