-- ARM Surges After Microsoft Accord Signals It May Replace Intel in Tablets
-- Jonathan Browning
-- 2010-07-23T20:21:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/arm-surges-after-microsoft-accord-signals-it-may-replace-intel-in-tablets.html

          
          
             ARM Holdings Plc  rose the most in
almost two years in London trading after announcing a licensing
deal with  Microsoft Corp.  that may give its technology a shot at
replacing Intel Corp.’s chips in new Windows tablet computers.  
 ARM, whose chip designs are already in  Apple Inc. ’s iPad,
will expand the use of its technology in Microsoft devices, the
Cambridge, England-based company said today in a statement. ARM
shares rose 12 percent to 353.3 pence, the biggest jump since
October 2008.  
 While ARM and Microsoft have worked together since 1997,
the new deal lets Microsoft build a customized ARM processor,
said  Sarah Friar,  an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in San
Francisco. That sets the stage for Microsoft’s computer partners
to offer new kinds of tablet devices that may be more capable of
rivaling the iPad. Until now, Windows tablets have struggled to
find customers, capturing less than 2 percent of the personal-
computer market.  
 Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, said the ARM deal
will apply to a “broad range” of areas, without disclosing
terms of the agreement. Microsoft declined to comment beyond the
statement.  Tom Beermann , a spokesman for Santa Clara,
California-based Intel, declined to comment.  
 ‘Momentum of ARM’  
 “This announcement speaks to the momentum of ARM and our
position in the industry,” Antonio Viana, executive vice
president of sales and business development for ARM, said in an
e-mail. “This creates a bountiful choice of hardware and
software suppliers.”  
 Apple ’s iPad is doing well in part because it turns on
instantly and has a long battery life, Friar said. Microsoft can
more easily match that with an ARM chip than an Intel one, she
said. Its latest PC operating system, Windows 7, doesn’t work
with ARM chips -- though its mobile and embedded operating
systems do. Microsoft is adapting its embedded version of
Windows, currently used in machines like cash registers, to work
on tablets.  
 Apple , based in Cupertino, California, sold 3.27 million
iPads last quarter, outselling all other types of tablet
computers. The device debuted April 3.  
 More than 80 percent of the world’s PCs run Microsoft
operating systems on Intel processors. Both companies have been
unable to parlay that dominance into success in mobile devices.  
 To remedy that, Intel has produced a scaled-down version of
its PC chip called Atom. It is working to get the processor into
mobile devices that use Google’s Android software and Intel’s
own operating system, called Meego.  
 Intel  shares  fell 9 cents to $21.69 at 4 p.m. New York time
on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Microsoft  declined 3 cents to
$25.81.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dina Bass  in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        