-- Stocks, U.S. Futures Rise on Earnings, Growth
-- Stephen Kirkland
-- 2010-07-23T09:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/asian-stocks-rise-corporate-bond-risk-falls-on-improving-profit-outlook.html

          
          
             European  stocks  rallied for a fourth
day, U.S. futures gained and the pound and the euro strengthened
as economic reports showed improvement in Britain and Germany,
earnings beat analysts’ estimates while concern eased over bank
stress tests.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  gained 0.2 percent at 10:13 a.m.
in London, while futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
rose 0.3 percent. The euro appreciated 0.5 percent against the
dollar, and the pound gained against its 16 most-traded peers.
Copper rose to a two-month high.  
 Microsoft Corp. ’s  record  fourth-quarter revenue and Adidas
AG’s surge in profit fueled investor optimism in the outlook for
earnings. About 84 percent of companies in the S&P 500 that have
reported since July 12 have beaten analysts’ earnings estimates,
according to  data compiled by Bloomberg . The U.K. economy grew
almost twice as much as economists forecast in the second
quarter, and business confidence in Germany unexpectedly surged
to a three-year high in July.  
 “Our best guess is that these results kick the can further
down the road without fully putting the matter to bed,”  Jim Reid , a strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in London, wrote in a
research report. “It doesn’t seem like there’s anywhere near
enough private capital to fund the European banking system’s
debt needs.”  
 The MSCI World Index  of stocks in 24 developed nations
gained 0.6 percent. Adidas, the world’s second-largest sporting-
goods maker, jumped 3.4 percent.  Akzo Nobel NV , the world’s
biggest maker of paints, rallied 4.1 percent in Amsterdam as
profit topped forecasts. Vodafone Group Plc, the largest mobile-
phone company, gained 1.9 percent in London after service
revenue unexpectedly returned to growth.  
 Ford, McDonald’s  
 The gain in U.S. futures indicated the S&P 500 may extend
yesterday’s 2.3 percent  rally . Thirteen companies in the U.S.
benchmark gauge are scheduled to report earnings today,
including Ford Motor Co., Verizon Communications Inc. and
McDonald’s Corp. before the start of trading in New York. The
MSCI Asia Pacific Index jumped 1.8 percent.  
 The euro strengthened to $1.2956. German business
confidence unexpectedly surged to a three-year high in July. The
 Ifo institute  said its  business climate index , based on a survey
of 7,000 executives, jumped to 106.2, the highest since July
2007, from 101.8 in June. Economists had expected a decline to
101.5, according to the median of 41 forecasts in a Bloomberg
News  survey . The dollar weakened against all but two of its
most-traded counterparts.  
 U.K. Growth  
 Sterling advanced 0.8 percent to $1.5387 and strengthened
0.4 percent to 84.17 pence per euro. U.K. GDP rose 1.1 percent
in the three months through June after increasing 0.3 percent in
the previous quarter, the Office for National Statistics said in
London today. Economists forecast a 0.6 percent gain, according
to the median of 32 predictions in a Bloomberg news survey.  
 “The market is in a bright mood on the back of strong
economic data,”  Bill Blain , joint head of fixed income at Matrix
Capital in London, wrote in a research report. “The stress tests
can’t acknowledge what the European Union can’t admit may happen
-- the risk of a European sovereign or euro meltdown.”  
 The cost of insuring bank bonds from default fell to the
lowest since May 13, with the Markit iTraxx Financial Index of
credit-default swaps dropping 4 basis points to 130, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co. Regulators in Europe are scrutinizing
banks to assess if they have enough capital to withstand a
recession and sovereign debt crisis. Lenders that fail the
trials will be made to raise additional capital. The results
will be published starting at 6 p.m. Brussels time today.  
 Hungary Rating  
 Hungary’s bonds and currency declined after Moody’s
Investors Service put Hungary’s debt rating under review for
possible downgrade following the government’s failure to
persuade the International Monetary Fund and European Union that
its deficit-reduction plans are sustainable.  
 The forint weakened for the first time in four days,
falling 0.3 percent against the euro. The extra yield investors
demand to own the Hungary’s foreign-currency debt over U.S.
Treasuries rose seven basis points to 3.51 percentage points,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  
 The MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained for a fourth day,
climbing 0.9 percent and heading for the highest closing level
since May 4. Technology companies including Chinese computer
maker Lenovo Group Ltd. and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Co. led the advance.  
 Copper for delivery in three months climbed 0.8 percent on
the London Metal Exchange. Industrial metals prices have climbed
every day this week, the longest advance since June 15. Gold for
immediate delivery increased 0.6 percent to $1,201.88 an ounce,
the second consecutive gain.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Kirkland  in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 1.1 percent to 116.86 as of 9:35 a.m. in Tokyo, extending its increase this week to 0.5 percent. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
