-- Asia, Latin America Push UPS, Nike Profits as U.S. Growth Slows
-- Anthony Feld
-- 2010-07-23T18:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/asia-latin-america-drive-ups-nike-profits-as-u-s-economic-growth-slows.html

          
          
             Earnings reports for U.S. companies
including Nike Inc. and United Parcel Service Inc. underscore
how executives are going abroad to drive profits as growth in
the world’s biggest economy slows.  
 For Beaverton, Oregon-based  Nike ,  revenue  from Asia, Africa
and South America for its brand-name products rose by 47 percent
in the quarter that ended May 31, compared with 4 percent for
North America. At Atlanta-based  UPS , shipments in Asia and
Europe are helping push up  profit  expectations for the year.  
 “With the weak market here, these firms are forced to
look for profitability elsewhere and doing it successfully,”
said  Edward Leamer , director of the Los Angeles-based  UCLA
Anderson Forecast , which has produced U.S. economic forecasts
for 50 years. “What’s likely for the decade ahead is that the
economic energy of the globe will be much more concentrated on
emerging markets and much less on the U.S.”  
 Stock markets outside the U.S. have outperformed the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  since June as earnings reassure
investors that growth prospects in emerging markets remain
intact. No fewer than eight U.S. companies in the past two
weeks, including  Caterpillar Inc. ,  Citigroup Inc. ,  General
Electric Co.,  and  International Business Machines Corp. , have
said they are optimistic about prospects in Europe, Asia and
Latin American countries such as Mexico.  
 Credit-card data released by New York-based Citigroup on
July 16 show purchases by U.S. consumers lagging behind
counterparts in Asia and Latin America. Purchases by consumers
in North America fell 7 percent during the second quarter from a
year earlier, while growing 15 percent in Latin America and 17
percent in Asia.  
 Nike Orders  
 Nike’s orders for delivery through November also signal
emerging market demand will remain strong. Orders for Nike brand
athletic footwear and apparel from emerging markets rose 30
percent in the most recent quarter, excluding currency effects,
compared with a year earlier. Orders of the Nike brand in China,
the company’s second-largest market behind North America, rose
16 percent, compared with 7 percent in North America.  
 UPS’s volume of exports in Asia grew by more than 40
percent during the second quarter, and the package-delivery
company is reaching more customers in Vietnam and Malaysia,
Chief Executive D.  Scott Davis  said on a July 22 conference
call. Meanwhile, Europe may be shaking off the sovereign-debt
crisis that rattled markets this year and is showing “solid”
growth in the current quarter, he said.  
 ‘Pleasant Surprise’  
 “Europe has been somewhat of a pleasant surprise,” Davis
said. “All of us are guarded about Europe just because of all
the unknown, but I think all of us are seeing pretty good
business in Europe.”  
 Davis’s assessment is backed by European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet , who said Europe’s economy is
stronger than some investors forecast. “There is a tendency
from the outside to be excessively pessimistic” about Europe,
the policy maker said during a July 8 press conference in
Frankfurt. “The figures don’t confirm this pessimism.”  
 The U.S. economy grew at a 2.7 percent annual rate in the
first quarter, less than previously calculated, reflecting a
smaller gain in consumer spending and a bigger trade gap,
figures from the Commerce Department showed. It probably grew
2.5 percent in the second quarter, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News through 2 p.m.
New York time.  
 Investing Overseas  
 Better growth prospects abroad are pushing investors into
stock markets overseas. Since June, the Vanguard FTSE All-World
Ex-US Index Fund, an exchange-traded fund that tracks developing
and emerging markets, has outperformed the SPDR S&P 500 ETF
Trust, which represents the S&P 500. The gain reverses about six
months where the SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust outperformed the All-
World index, which includes  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and  Siemens AG .  
 Peoria, Illinois-based Caterpillar on July 22 raised its
full-year earnings forecast on higher demand in developing
countries for mining, energy and rail equipment.  
 “World growth is being led by the developing countries of
Asia, Latin America, the Middle East, and Africa,” said  Mike DeWalt , head of investor relations at Caterpillar, the world’s
largest maker of construction equipment.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Vivien Lou Chen  in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
 Anthony Feld  in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Nike Lance Armstrong "LiveStrong" sneakers sit on display at the Niketown store in New York. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
