-- AstraZeneca Likely to Double 2010 Share Buyback After Crestor Patent Win
-- Iona Craig
-- 2010-07-23T10:53:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/astrazeneca-likely-to-double-2010-share-buyback-after-crestor-patent-win.html

          
          
               AstraZeneca Plc , the U.K.’s second-
largest drugmaker, may double spending on share buybacks this
year after a legal victory protecting the patent on the Crestor
cholesterol pill freed up more cash, analysts said.  
 AstraZeneca is likely to announce a buyback of $1 billion
when the company reports  earnings  on July 29, according to six
of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The other two analysts
do not expect any additional buyback. The drugmaker, based in
London, is already planning a $1 billion buyback for 2010.  
 The company, one of the European drugmakers most exposed to
potential generic competition, is returning some of its $9.4
billion in cash and short-term investments to investors as sales
decline and earnings “fluctuate” until 2014, Chief Executive
Officer  David Brennan  has said. In a victory for the company, a
U.S. court last month upheld a patent on Crestor, removing a
threat to the pill’s $4.5 billion in sales.  
 AstraZeneca’s decision to buy back “a mere $1 billion for
2010” may have been because “management wanted certainty about
Crestor before committing to a sizeable buyback program,”
JPMorgan analyst  Alexandra Hauber  said in a June 28 note.  
 The shares declined 49 pence, or 1.5 percent, to 3,174
pence as of 10:29 a.m. in London trading. The stock has gained
8.9 percent this year, helped by the Crestor victory, making it
the  top performer  among the five biggest companies in the
 Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index .  
 Brilinta Meeting  
 A U.S. regulatory panel will next week decide whether to
recommend approval of the Brilinta blood-thinner, a potential
blockbuster.  
 “The stock becomes a great deal more attractive if Brilinta
gets a thumbs-up,”  Mark Clark , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG
in London, said in an interview. Clark, who rates the shares
“hold,” estimates that the stock could gain 5 percent or
decline as much as 10 percent on the advisory panel’s decision.
The drug could generate as much as $2 billion in annual sales by
2015, Clark said.  
 AstraZeneca trades at about 8.7 times earnings, below the
12.6 times for the index, suggesting investors are betting the
company will struggle to fight against the onslaught of generic
competition until 2014. Dividends have increased for the last 14
consecutive semi-annual periods, according to  Bloomberg data .  
 An FDA panel will on July 28 consider Brilinta for approval
and recommend whether the product should be cleared as a
competitor to Plavix, made by Sanofi-Aventis SA and Bristol-
Myers Squibb Co., and Efient, from Eli Lilly & Co. and Daiichi
Sankyo Co. Analysts consider the drug to be the next potential
blockbuster that may offset generic threats to six medicines,
including the two biggest sellers, Nexium for ulcers and the
antipsychotic Seroquel.  
 Upside  
 “Upside from a share buyback far outweighs the potential
risk from a negative vote/approval delay” of Brilinta by U.S.
regulators, Hauber said. A $4 billion annual buyback in 2011,
for example, would push earnings per share up by 20 percent by
2014, wrote Hauber, who raised AstraZeneca shares to “neutral”
from “underweight.”  
 AstraZeneca repurchased more than $4.7 billion of shares in
2007 and 2008, yet halted buybacks in the third quarter of 2008
to conserve cash during the financial crisis. The company
resumed buybacks this year, repurchasing 4.8 million shares for
$214 million in the first quarter while saying it was on
schedule to buy back a net total of $1 billion for the year.
Spokesman  Chris Sampson  declined to comment on the company’s
future buyback plan.  
 Brennan has shunned the approach taken by rivals
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc  and  Sanofi , who are instead spending cash
reserves to expand in consumer products and generic drugs to
counteract their patent woes.  Roche Holding AG  and  Novartis AG 
have used their cash to pay down debt from acquisitions.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Trista Kelley  in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net 
 Iona Craig  in London at   icraig2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        