-- Avon Board Sued by Shareholders for Failing to Monitor Payments in China
-- Karen Freifeld
-- 2010-07-23T19:10:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/avon-board-sued-by-shareholders-for-failing-to-monitor-payments-in-china.html

          
          
             Avon Products Inc.  shareholders sued
the board and three former directors of the world’s largest
door-to-door cosmetics seller, claiming they failed to prevent
improper payments in China.  
 The lawsuit, filed yesterday in New York state Supreme
Court in Manhattan, stems from travel, entertainment and other
expenses allegedly provided to a senior official at China’s
Ministry of Commerce. China granted Avon a license allowing
door-to-door marketing in February 2006, about two months after
lifting a ban on direct selling.  
 Avon, based in New York, said in April it suspended four
executives as part of an internal investigation. Directors’
failure to ensure that Avon complied with the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act led to substantial losses for the company,
according to the complaint, brought on Avon’s behalf by County
of York Employees Retirement Plan.  
 Avon’s license approval in China was attributed to Deng
Zhan, deputy director of the foreign fund division of the
Ministry of Commerce, the pension fund said, citing news
reports. He was detained in September 2008 for allegedly
accepting bribes, according to the complaint targeting 13
current and former Avon directors.  
 Avon doesn’t comment on pending litigation, spokeswoman
 Sharon Samuel  said in a telephone interview.  
 Avon said in October 2008 that it started a voluntary
investigation into compliance with the FCPA, which outlaws
bribing of foreign officials. The probe had spread to at least a
dozen countries as of June, court papers show.  
 Avon  rose 29 cents to $29.39 at 2:31 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  
 The case is County of York v. W. Don Cornwell, 651065/2010,
New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        