-- Tax `Shenanigans' Turn U.S. Sales to Foreign Income With Billions Offshore
-- Jesse Drucker
-- 2010-07-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/tax-shenanigans-turn-u-s-sales-to-foreign-income-with-billions-offshore.html

          
          
             A U.S. tech company identified only
by the pseudonym “Delta” generated as much as 55 percent of
its revenue domestically while reporting to shareholders that
only 10 percent of its pretax income came from U.S. operations,
according to a  report  presented to the House Ways and Means
Committee.  
 By attributing more earnings to countries with lower tax
rates, including the Netherlands and Singapore, “Delta” cut
its worldwide average tax rate to less than half the 35 percent
rate in the U.S., said the report by the Joint Committee on
Taxation, presented yesterday.  
 Such income shifting, gleaned from actual tax returns in a
rare glimpse into the tax structures of six U.S. multinational
companies, reflects a strategy that critics call abusive.
Companies that use it may be depriving the U.S. treasury of as
much as $60 billion a year, according to a study published in
December by Kimberly A. Clausing, an economics professor at Reed
College in Portland, Oregon.  
 Multinationals “shift the burden of paying for our
national security and homeland security and other public
services to small businesses and family taxpayers, who play by
the rules and do not engage in these shenanigans,” said U.S.
Representative  Lloyd Doggett , a Texas Democrat who is on the
Ways and Means committee.  
 That panel, which oversees tax legislation, examined
transfer pricing, the system that companies use to allocate
their expenses and income among subsidiaries in different
countries for tax purposes.  
 In the report, six companies were assigned false names --
Alpha, Bravo, Charlie, Delta, Echo and Foxtrot. The pamphlet
cited percentages for their revenue and pretax income, not real
dollar amounts.  
 Lower Tax Rates  
 The Joint Committee, a nonpartisan congressional body that
researches tax issues, chose companies that reported effective
tax rates at least 10 percentage points lower than the U.S.
statutory rate for a period of years, along with large gaps
between the countries in which they reported sales and the
countries in which they reported earnings.  
 The research also relied on public data to piece together
how U.S. multinationals cut their tax bills by shifting income
overseas. Much of the savings came from the companies’ entering
into licensing and other transactions with subsidiaries in low-
tax jurisdictions.  
 “Delta,” which the committee identified as “a publicly
traded U.S.-based multinational company that manufactures and
markets technology-based consumer products,” performed research
and development in the U.S. and deducted those expenses from its
U.S. taxable income, the report said. Once a product was almost
ready for sale, Delta licensed the rights to it to a Dutch
subsidiary in exchange for a royalty.  
 Shifting Profits  
 The Dutch unit or an affiliate then manufactured the
product and sold it to the U.S. parent company, thus shifting
profits to the Netherlands, the report said. The average tax
rate there was about 5 percent over the study period.  
 “Delta U.S. has licensed many of what have proven to be
its most commercially successful products in this way,” the
report said.  
 Doggett has proposed legislation that seeks to curtail that
practice. It would require companies to be liable for U.S. taxes
resulting from innovations they developed in the U.S., even if
the company licensed the property to an overseas subsidiary.  
 “What our bill does is reduce the incentive to engage in
some of the egregious schemes to avoid U.S. taxes on
intellectual property developed within the United States,”
Doggett said.  
 ‘Arm’s Length’ Questioned  
 The committee report questioned whether tax regulators can
adequately gauge if U.S. parent companies are paying too much to
their offshore subsidiaries in such cases -- or whether the
foreign units are paying too little to the parent -- thus
shifting income overseas. U.S. Treasury Department regulations
require “arm’s length” prices, or the amounts that would be
paid between unrelated parties.  
 The report said “taxpayers that develop unique intangible
property rarely, if ever, transfer that property to third
parties.”  
 The Obama administration has proposed some changes to
transfer pricing, including one that would essentially provide
for a minimum tax on profits earned in low-tax jurisdictions
overseas.  
 Representative  David R. Camp , the ranking Republican on the
Ways and Means committee, criticized the pamphlet for focusing
on what the authors acknowledged did not attempt to be a
representative sample of companies. He said the U.S. statutory
corporate income rate of 35 percent, now the world’s second
highest, “puts pressure” on companies to shift income.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Drucker  in New York at 
 jdrucker4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        