-- Bankers Jobs at Risk in Australia as Deals Fade, RBS Chief Says
-- Angus Whitley
-- 2010-07-23T02:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/bankers-jobs-at-risk-in-australia-as-deals-fade-rbs-chief-williams-says.html

          
          
             Investment banks in Australia may
have to cut jobs by the end of the year as a slowdown in deals
crimps revenue by as much as 40 percent, said  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc’s  top local executive.  
 Stephen Williams, RBS’s country executive and head of
global banking and markets, said banks that hired dealmakers
with guaranteed pay packets, expecting markets to pick up, face
most pressure. He said RBS has no firm plan to cut jobs in
Australia, Asia Pacific’s third-biggest market for mergers and
acquisitions this year according to Bloomberg data.  
 “They will find it increasingly difficult to pay
individuals,” said Williams, 49. “The balance of the year is
still going to be pretty slow. All of a sudden, we’re going to
find ourselves in the last quarter, and then how do you deliver
this year’s total revenues? There will be quite a lot of
pressure in a number of houses on the cost base.”  
 Citigroup Inc.  and  Bank of America Corp.  are among firms to
have lured senior bankers from rivals in Australia this year
following the busiest first four months of takeovers in at least
a decade. Then a planned local resources tax stymied mining
deals and Australia’s biggest initial public offering of the
year was withdrawn as stock markets worldwide declined.  
 Williams said RBS, which is controlled by the U.K.
government following a bailout, is on track to deliver this
year’s revenue targets and aims to be a top-five investment bank
in Australia. The firm, which has 640 local employees, has hired
about 100 workers in the past 12 months, more than the number
that has left, he said in the interview on July 21.  
 ‘Volatile Market’  
 ’’There are lots of mandates,’’ said Williams, who joined
RBS in 1996. “Market conditions have just caused them to stall.
Boards are probably finding it challenging to see compelling
reasons to prosecute M&A in the current volatile market.”  
 Australia’s benchmark  S&P/ASX 200  index has fallen for
three straight months and the  MSCI World Index  sank 13 percent
in the second quarter as Europe’s debt crisis threatened to
spread and stall a global economic recovery.  
 German construction company Bilfinger Berger AG this month
scrapped plans to list its Australian unit in what would have
been the nation’s largest IPO since Myer Holdings Ltd. in
October. RBS was among the banks managing the planned sale.  
 A super tax on Australian mineral profits, announced in May
by then-Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd , triggered a standoff between
miners and the government, scuppered a proposed A$3.8 billion
($3.4 billion) takeover of Macarthur Coal Ltd. by Peabody Energy
Corp., and helped lead to Rudd’s removal. Next month’s election
called by his successor,  Julia Gillard , won’t help matters, said
Williams.  
 ‘Very Slow’  
 “It’s not necessarily going to give people a lot of
confidence to move forward with a transaction,” he said.
“We’re in for a very slow July and August.”  
 Jon Michel , who founded the Sydney-based financial
recruitment company Jon Michel Executive Search in 1997, said he
doesn’t expect layoffs by the end of the year.  
 “I don’t see such a drastic shift in hiring and firing in
that space of time,” he said. “We’re still busy and have a
pretty full orderbook.”  
 Foreign banks in Australia that may struggle to pay locked-
in bonuses from this year’s revenue are more likely to go to
offshore parents for a top up than fire bankers, he said.  
 Citigroup Inc.’s  top executive in Australia,  Stephen Roberts , said this week that it was tougher now to get deals
done than any period he could recall. Roberts has been the New
York-based firm’s most senior banker in the country since 2003.
A pipeline of planned deals would remain unfulfilled for “a
long time,” he said.  
 ‘Overbanked’  
 Three months earlier, Macquarie Group Ltd., Australia’s
biggest investment bank, had said the outlook for domestic deals
was improving. Citigroup in July hired  Tony Osmond  from Goldman
Sachs JBWere Pty as head of investment banking in Australia.  
 Bank of America Corp.’s additions include ex-Deutsche Bank
AG banker  Henry Ayliffe  in Australia and  David Goffage , the
former RBS equities banker. It hired  David Killingback  from
Deutsche Bank to become head of mergers and acquisitions in
Australia, the Australian newspaper reported July 22.  
 “I’ve been quite surprised at the extent to which some
have invested in what they must have thought would be a
continuing strong environment,” said Williams. “Are we
overbanked? Probably, yes.”  
 Owned by the British government, RBS probably can’t match
the guaranteed payouts that Australian rivals can promise to
attract new hires, but the divide is narrowing, said Williams.  
 “The rest of the competition will have to align itself to
the new world order,” he said. “We’ve seen our share of
individuals who have moved on.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        