-- Bank of Japan Warns From Experience of Overheating in Emerging Economies
-- Mayumi Otsuma
-- 2010-07-23T09:45:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/bank-of-japan-warns-from-experience-of-overheating-in-emerging-economies.html

          
          
             Emerging economies are at risk of
overheating should they delay tightening monetary policy like 
Japan did in the 1980s, a central bank research report shows.  
 Robust growth and relatively healthy fiscal management in
developing economies is attracting investment even after fiscal
concerns about Greece and other European nations erupted in May,
according to the paper, which was co-written by six Bank of
Japan officials and published today in Tokyo.  
 “Should central banks of emerging countries put too much
focus on the global market volatility” resulting from Europe’s
problems, “their accommodative monetary policy for an extended
period may fuel the risk of overheating asset prices and cause
big economic swings that would require adjustment,” it said.  
 The Bank of Japan began to guide short-term interest rates
higher in August 1987, only to abort the effort two months
later after the worldwide Black Monday stock-market crash. The
postponement of monetary tightening helped fuel an  asset bubble 
that burst in the early 1990s, the report said, leading to
deflation and economic stagnation that continues today.  
 Central bank Deputy Governor  Hirohide Yamaguchi  said this
week that emerging economies are “facing a critical turning
point” amid signs of overheating and inflation. A hard landing
poses as much threat to the Japanese economy as Europe’s
sovereign debt woes, the deputy governor said.  
 Policy makers in Asia have moved to withdraw monetary
stimulus, with central banks from Thailand to Taiwan, Malaysia
and South Korea boosting interest rates in recent weeks.  
 Laying the Ground  
 When the BOJ started to guide short-term rates higher in
August 1987 it was laying the ground for an increase of its
discount rate, which lends overnight cash to commercial banks,
to cool the economic expansion, the researchers said. Short-
term rates resumed falling after the bank abandoned the effort.  
 “Once the financial-market turmoil subsided, market
participants turned bullish amid expectations that the Bank of
Japan would maintain low interest rates, which had fueled
bubbles in Japan,” the report said.  
 The paper was jointly written by Risa Okawa,  Yoshihiro Takada , Eiichi Tamura,  Satoe Aoki , Masato Higashi and  Yasunari Inamura  of the BOJ’s international department.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        