-- Beazley Plans to Increase Hedge-Fund Assets as Investment Returns Decline
-- Kevin Crowley
-- 2010-07-23T07:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/beazley-plans-to-increase-hedge-fund-assets-as-investment-returns-decline.html

          
          
             Beazley Plc , a Lloyd’s of London
insurer, plans to increase its hedge-fund holdings as record-low
interest rates squeeze investment returns.  
 Beazley will raise the proportion of its assets invested in
hedge funds to as much as 13 percent in the next six months from
about 10 percent now, Finance Director  Martin Bride  said in a
telephone interview today. The insurer may then increase the
holding to 20 percent depending on market movements, he said.  
 “The prospects for investment yields going forward are
very linked to how interest rates move, and we don’t expect any
sudden and sharp increases in interest rates,” Bride said. “We
don’t want to generate investment losses.”  
 Central banks in the U.S. and U.K. have cut interest rates
to record lows to stimulate economic growth following the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression, forcing insurers to
seek alternative investments to generate returns. The chief
executive officer and finance director of fellow Lloyd’s of
London insurer Chaucer Holdings Plc were forced to step down
last year after the firm’s hedge-fund holdings plunged in 2008.  
 Beazley said today its investment income for the first half
dropped to $8.5 million from $40.5 million a year earlier.  
 “We took the view we don’t want a lot of credit in the
portfolio because credit spreads are relatively volatile and we
don’t want any direct equities in the portfolio because equities
are very volatile,” Beazley CEO  Andrew Horton  said in the
interview. “Hedge funds have the possibility of dampening some
of the volatility.”  
 Bonds and Cash  
 Outside of its hedge-fund holdings, Beazley’s investments
are mostly in U.S. and U.K. government bonds and cash, Horton
said.  
 The insurer, the first Lloyd’s of London firm to post its
half-year earnings, said today in a statement that profit more
than tripled on higher sales and a foreign-exchange gain. Net
income climbed to $97.9 million in the six months to June 30,
from $31.2 million a year earlier. That beat the $43.1 million
median estimate of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 The stock climbed 0.8 pence, or 0.7 percent, to 122.8 pence
at 8:24 a.m. in London, valuing the firm at about 648 million
pounds.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kevin Crowley  in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        