-- Bernanke Says Tax-Cut Extension Maintains Stimulus
-- Ryan J. Donmoyer
-- 2010-07-23T14:29:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/bernanke-says-extending-bush-tax-cuts-would-maintain-stimulus-to-economy.html

          
          
             Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said extending at least some of the tax cuts set to
expire this year would help strengthen a U.S. economy
still in need of stimulus and urged offsetting the move with
increased revenue or lower spending.  
 “In the short term I would believe that we ought to
maintain a reasonable degree of fiscal support, stimulus for the
economy,” Bernanke said yesterday under questioning from the
House Financial Services Committee’s senior Republican. “There
are many ways to do that. This is one way.”  
 While Democrats want to keep the 2001 and 2003 tax
reductions passed during former President  George W. Bush ’s
administration for families earning as much as $250,000,
Republicans aim to continue the cuts for high-income people as
well. Bernanke didn’t endorse either party’s position or
recommend a time period for an extension.  
 “In the longer term, I think we need to be taking steps to
reassure the American people and the markets that our fiscal
situation is going to be well controlled,” Bernanke said under
questioning from Representative  Spencer Bachus  of Alabama, the
committee’s senior Republican. “That means that if you extend
the tax cuts, you need to find other ways to offset them.”  
 Bernanke aims to bolster the faltering economic recovery
while urging lawmakers to reduce federal budget deficits in the
medium term, which he defined as the period from 2013 to 2020.
His predecessor,  Alan Greenspan , last week said lawmakers should
allow the tax cuts to expire at the end of 2010, citing a need
for the revenue to reduce the budget gap.  
 Monetary Policy  
 Bernanke, in the second day of semiannual congressional
testimony on monetary policy, said the central bank will act to
spur growth should the economy sputter. A top lieutenant, New
York Fed President  William Dudley , said yesterday that the
“road to recovery is turning out to be a bit bumpy.”  
 The Fed chief reiterated three central bank options for
further steps, including giving more information on the Fed’s
commitment to low  interest rates , reducing the rate paid on
banks’ reserves held at the Fed and buying more securities.  
 “There is an implicit message from various Fed speakers
that monetary policy is less useful now than most times,” said
 Tom Gallagher , senior managing director at International
Strategy & Investment Group in Washington. “It is a fair
inference that Bernanke thinks it would be good to avoid fiscal
restraint rather than have more monetary ease if the outlook for
2011 is poor.”  
 Stocks Rebound  
 U.S. stocks rebounded yesterday, with the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index  gaining 2.3 percent to 1,093.67 at the 4 p.m. close of
trading in New York. Today, the S&P 500 was little changed at
1,093.27 at 9:43 a.m. The index fell 1.3 percent on July 21
after Bernanke signaled he needs to see signs of deeper weakness
in the economy before pushing the bounds of monetary policy
further.  
 Tax cuts for “the most fortunate 2 or 3 percent of
Americans” should be allowed to expire, Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  told reporters yesterday in Washington.
“That will help us begin the process of making a contribution
to bringing down our long-term deficits. That’s the sensible
approach going forward.”  
 Budget rules adopted by Congress earlier this year allow
lawmakers to extend the middle-income tax cuts without
offsetting revenue increases. Keeping the cuts for households
earning less than $250,000 will cost about $255 billion a year,
according to the Joint Committee on Taxation. There are 130
million such households, the Internal Revenue Service estimates.  
 Marginal Rates  
 There is no similar budgetary escape hatch that would let
Republicans extend the tax cuts for the wealthy. They must find
$55 billion in revenue to make up for the cost of keeping top
marginal rates at 35 percent and dividend and capital gains
taxes at 15 percent, among other reductions.  
 Bernanke, 56, a former Princeton University economics
professor, didn’t say whether Congress should find a way to
offset extending just the middle-income cuts.  
 “The real pain will be in his suggestion that over the
long term they need to be paid for,” said  Clint Stretch ,
managing principal of tax policy for Deloitte Tax LLC and a
former congressional attorney. “That will play very strongly
into the hands of those people who want to extend the Bush tax
cuts for a year or two and kick the whole issue of deficit
reduction down the road.”  
 Bush Adviser  
 Appointed a Fed governor by Bush in 2002, Bernanke was
named chairman of Bush’s Council of Economic Advisers in 2005
and became Fed chief in 2006. Obama, elected in 2008,
reappointed Bernanke to a second four-year term that began in
February.  
 “In an ideal world, I agree with him,” House Majority
Leader  Steny Hoyer , a Maryland Democrat, said in an interview
when asked about Bernanke’s remarks.  
 Asked whether the combination of Bernanke and Greenspan’s
comments would have an impact on the debate, Hoyer said, “It’ll
have some effect. But with all due respect, Mr. Greenspan didn’t
share that in ‘01 when he could have had a real effect, and we
wouldn’t be in this pickle.”  
 Greenspan, 84, whose backing of Bush’s 2001 tax cuts helped
persuade Congress to pass them, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Conversations with  Judy Woodruff ” last
week that Congress “should follow the law and let them lapse.”
Ending the cuts “probably will” slow growth, Greenspan said.  
 Ohio Senator  George Voinovich , a Republican, said
Bernanke’s comments validate his own views. “Either you pay for
it, or you don’t do it,” Voinovich told reporters yesterday. He
said he didn’t know whether Bernanke’s comments would help
persuade other senators to see it his way.  
 Summers Comments  
 Earlier this week, White House economic adviser  Larry Summers  rejected Republican arguments for extending the Bush
administration’s tax cuts for high-income families. The
reductions are a “relatively inefficacious measure for pushing
the economy forward,” Summers, director of the White House
National Economic Council, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview.  
 Bernanke bristled at comments from Representative  David Scott , a Georgia Democrat, who said he hasn’t seen
“aggressiveness” by the Fed to meet its congressional mandate
for maximum employment, in addition to the objectives for stable
prices and moderate long-term interest rates.  
 The chairman said the Fed takes “very seriously” its
responsibility to reduce high unemployment and has already
pushed its stimulus to a record. Congress has the ability to
authorize more spending for stimulus, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve, listens to opening statements during his semiannual monetary policy report to the House Financial Services Committee in Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
