-- BNP Lowers Dollar Forecast Versus Euro as Economy `Abruptly Reversed Gear'
-- Lisa Pham
-- 2010-07-23T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/bnp-lowers-dollar-forecast-versus-euro-as-economy-abruptly-reversed-gear.html

          
          
             BNP Paribas SA lowered forecasts for
the dollar against the euro, dropping a prediction it would
reach parity, on prospects the Federal Reserve will increase
stimulus and Europe’s bank stress tests will prove successful.  
 Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said July 21 that
the outlook for U.S. economy is “unusually uncertain.” Housing
starts in the U.S. fell in June to the lowest level since
October and consumer confidence in July tumbled, reports this
week showed. BNP Paribas, France’s largest lender, said the euro
will trade at $1.20 in the third quarter, after earlier saying
it would be at $1.16. The greenback will rise to $1.12 per euro
by March 31, 2011, rather than to $1, BNP said.  
 “Over the past three months, the U.S. economy has abruptly
reversed gear as the housing market has been weakening again,”
analysts including  Hans-Guenter Redeker , global head of currency
strategy in London at BNP Paribas, wrote in a report today.
“The prospect of another round of U.S. quantitative easing will
keep the dollar on the back foot.”  
 The U.S. currency has risen more than 11 percent against
the euro this year, touching a four-year high of $1.1877 on June
7. It traded at $1.2892 per euro as of 1:12 p.m. in Tokyo.  
 Stress Tests  
 Regulators are relying on today’s results of bank stress
tests to reassure investors that the euro can withstand the
fallout from the Greek-led debt turmoil. The euro has rallied
8.1 percent since June 7 as Greece, Spain and Portugal sold 50
billion euros ($64 billion) of debt since May 10, when the need
to save the single currency forced finance ministers to create a
nearly $1 trillion rescue fund.  
 “It is clear that the European authorities will use the
results of the stress tests as best they can,” the BNP Paribas
analysts wrote. “In this sense, the stress tests will be a
public-relations effort and will probably be successful as
such.”  
 The bank predicted that the euro would reach $1.15 by year-
end from a previous forecast for $1.08.  
 It also raised its outlook for the Australian dollar to
trade at 88 U.S. cents in the third quarter from an earlier
forecast of 86 U.S. cents.  
 The so-called Aussie was trading at 89.20 cents.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lisa Pham  in Sydney at 
 lpham14@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        