-- BofA Said to Lose 30 Private-Equity Employees to New Bank-Linked Ventures
-- David Mildenberg
-- 2010-07-23T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/bofa-said-to-lose-30-private-equity-employees-to-new-bank-linked-ventures.html

          
          
             Bank of America Corp. , under
government pressure to curb private-equity investments, plans to
sell $1.2 billion of commitments to funds managed by Warburg
Pincus LLC as about 30 employees join two new bank-affiliated
ventures, said two people with direct knowledge of the matter.  
 Jason Cipriani , head of strategic fund investments, and
about 10 colleagues are forming an office for  Sterling Stamos ,
the New York investment firm, the people said, speaking on
condition of anonymity because the moves haven’t been publicly
announced.  Travis Hain , a managing director who guides direct
investments in companies, and about 20 bank employees are
forming a separate firm, according to Bank of America spokesman
 Jerry Dubrowski .  
 Both groups will be based in the bank’s home town of
Charlotte, North Carolina, and manage investments for the bank
and their own clients, the people and Dubrowski said.  
 The Dodd-Frank Act, signed this week by President  Barack Obama , forces some lenders to limit private-equity investments,
and the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision may force banks
to hold more capital to back their stakes. In April, Bank of
America sold a $1.9 billion portfolio of private-equity fund
interests to AXA Private Equity.  
 “There’s a general sentiment among many big organizations,
and especially the banks, to move away from alternative
assets,” said  John Fennebresque , managing director of
Fennebresque & Co., a Charlotte-based investment bank for mid-
sized companies. “But any wise investor would still see private
equity as a very viable asset class.”  
 Baseball’s Stamos  
 Sterling Stamos was formed in 2002 by  Peter Stamos ,
chairman of the investment advisory board for Major League
Baseball. Merrill Lynch bought a minority stake in the firm in
2007 before the securities firm’s acquisition by Bank of
America.  
 The bank is focusing on “private equity opportunities
that will offer the best potential return for our company,”
Dubrowski said. While the Dodd-Frank Act wasn’t the catalyst,
“the decisions are also weighed against pending changes in
capital requirements that will affect our industry,” he said.  
 Sterling Stamos General Counsel Jared Kanover referred
comment to Bank of America, which said Cipriani and Hahn weren’t
available for comment. The Wall Street Journal yesterday
reported the bank’s plans to sell the fund stakes managed by
Warburg Pincus.  
 Bank of America’s global principal investments firm had
$14.8 billion of investments as of June 30, compared with $15.9
billion at the end of the previous quarter.  
 Dodd-Frank limits a bank’s investments in private-equity
and hedge funds to 3 percent of capital. The new law gives
lenders several years to reduce their holdings.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        