-- Bovespa Stock Index Advances as Earnings Boost Economic Recovery Outlook
-- Alexander Ragir
-- 2010-07-23T20:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/bovespa-stock-index-futures-rise-on-commodities-economic-growth-outlook.html

          
          
             The  Bovespa  stock index rose for a
fifth day, capping its biggest weekly gain since May 2009, as
better-than-estimated earnings in the U.S. boosted confidence in
the global economic recovery.  
 Cyrela Brazil Realty SA Empreendimentos e Participacoes ,
Brazil’s biggest homebuilder by revenue, climbed 2.4 percent
after reporting that its exclusive stake of second-quarter
preliminary contracted sales increased 77 percent. Usinas
Siderurgicas de  Minas Gerais SA , Brazil’s second-largest
steelmaker, climbed 1.4 percent as metals prices increased after
companies from Ford Motor Co. to Verizon Communications Inc.
reported earnings that beat analysts’ estimates.  
 “It was a very strong week with good results coming in the
U.S., and then people began pricing in lower increases from the
central bank,” said  Felipe Casotti , who helps manage the
equivalent of $346 million in assets at Maxima Asset Management
in Rio de Janeiro. “Today the markets are stable.”  
 The Bovespa stock index added 0.9 percent to 66,322.99,
after earlier falling as much as 0.5 percent. Forty-four stocks
rose on the index while 19 fell. The BM&FBovespa Small Cap index
gained 0.7 percent, while the real gained 0.2 percent to 1.7553
per U.S. dollar.  
 The Bovespa climbed 6.4 percent this week after commodities
rallied and policy makers slowed the pace of interest-rate
increases, signaling they may stop raising borrowing costs.  
 Markets around the world rallied this week as earnings
bolstered the outlook for the global economic recovery. Of the
149 companies on the U.S. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index that have
reported earnings since July 12, about 85 percent have beaten
forecasts for earnings per share, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Fund Inflows  
 Latin American equity funds posted back-to-back weeks of
inflows for the first time since early April, the EPFR Global
research firm said today.  
 Cyrela gained 2.4 percent to 23.10 reais. The company’s
exclusive stake of the sales was 1.1 billion reais ($626.5
million), up 77 percent compared with the same period last year.  
 Brazil’s government is considering tax breaks to stimulate
long-term lending for infrastructure investment, helping to
reduce the lending burden on the state development bank, Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  said.  
 Cut Income Taxes  
 Mantega, in an interview in Sao Paulo, said that among the
measures being considered is to cut income taxes for investment
in debentures and to develop a secondary market for them. He
said the measures will be ready before President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva leaves office in January.  
 Usiminas gained 1.4 percent to 53.25 reais. The Bloomberg
Base Metals 3-Month Price Commodity Index advanced 0.7 percent
to the highest level in two months.  
 Natura Cosmeticos SA gained for a second day, rising 2.1
percent to 41.05 reais. Brazil’s largest cosmetics maker said
July 21 second-quarter profit increased 14 percent from a year
earlier on growing consumer demand.  
 The fastest economic growth since 1995 and the largest
tumble in equity valuations among emerging markets still can’t
persuade the world’s biggest investors that Brazilian stocks are
cheap.  
 Templeton Asset Management Ltd.’s  Mark Mobius  is concerned
a flood of shares led by Petroleo Brasileiro SA’s planned $25
billion offering in September may limit gains after the Bovespa
index dropped 3.3 percent this year. Baring Asset Management
expects increased government control over the economy from  Dilma Rousseff , the chosen successor of President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da
Silva. Schroders Plc and Prudential Financial Inc. say growth
has peaked as interest rates rise.  
 The  Bovespa index  trades for 11.8 times analysts’ 2010
earnings estimates, compared with 11.6 times for the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index of 21 developing nations’ stocks and 15.3
times for Mexico’s IPC index, according to weekly data compiled
by Bloomberg. The Bovespa trades at 13.4 times the reported
profits of its companies after fetching 25.5 times in November,
the most in almost six years, weekly data show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        