-- BP Bid to Permanently Plug Oil Well Delayed as Storm Nears
-- Jim Polson
-- 2010-07-24T07:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/bp-s-well-to-remain-sealed-as-tropical-storm-passes-delaying-final-kill.html

          
          
             BP Plc  disconnected ships that had
been drilling relief wells near its Macondo spill site in the
Gulf of Mexico because of an approaching tropical depression
that could arrive today.  
 The depression, named Bonnie, moved into the Gulf of
Mexico yesterday, the National Hurricane Center said. If gale-
force winds from Bonnie reach the spill site this weekend, a
seal installed on Macondo July 15 will prevent resumption of
the worst U.S. oil spill, National Incident Commander  Thad Allen  said at a press conference in New Orleans.  
 “It was in the best interests of the operation, and in
minimizing the effect on the environment, to keep the well
capped as we move through the storm,” Allen said.  
 Bonnie may drive oil already spilled deep into marshes and
far onto beaches, Allen said. It also may break up slicks,
speeding the end of shoreline pollution, he said.  
 Crews are also disconnecting the Q4000, a rig that
controlled valves at the top of the well, Allen said. The well
has been sealed for a week to check for leaks.  
 Scientists have not resolved a debate on whether lower-
than-expected pressure in the well indicates an undiscovered
leak under the seabed or is a result of depletion after the
well gushed unrestricted for almost three months, Allen said.  
 For that reason, ships monitoring the well will remain as
long as possible, and equipment will be left behind to record
the sound of any leaks that may develop, he said. Ships
controlling remote-operated vehicles with cameras and other
sensors are expected to evacuate no longer than 48 hours and
may be able to ride out the storm, he said.  
 Pressure Rises  
 Pressure at the top of the well rose to 6,878 pounds per
square inch, with no sign of a leak, BP said yesterday in a
statement on its website. Before the test, BP and Allen said
pressure less than 6,000 pounds per square inch would indicate
a leak, while pressure of 8,000 pounds per square inch would
indicate none.  
 Disconnecting the relief-well rigs will delay the well-
killing operation by about two weeks,  Kent Wells , BP senior
vice president for exploration and production, said during a
conference call with reporters.  
 That setback includes a one-week delay triggered earlier
this week when the rig drilling the first well installed a
temporary plug in anticipation of the storm, Wells said.  
 BP fell 1.4 pence in London trading yesterday to 398.60
pence.  
 Shoreline Cleanup  
 Bonnie will reshape the slick, then knock aside floating
booms placed to keep oil-contaminated water away from shoreline
and bays as it makes landfall July 25 in Louisiana or
Mississippi,  Alex Sosnowski , a senior meteorologist for
Accuweather.com in State College, Pennsylvania, wrote in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  
 Shoreline cleanup may resume as early as the morning of
July 26 because the storm should pass quickly, he wrote.  
 Bonnie was moving west-northwest at a speed of 17 miles
(27 kilometers) per hour with maximum sustained winds of 35
miles per hour as of 2 a.m. local time, according to the
National Hurricane Center.  
 About 28 percent of the Gulf’s U.S. oil production and 10
percent of natural-gas output has been halted by the storm, the
government said.  
 Mississippi and Louisiana announced the state of emergency,
and the Coast Guard is removing plastic barriers on the water
because the boom might be damaged by the storm surge.  
 Pressure readings from the well will help estimate the
rate at which Macondo was spewing after the Deepwater Horizon
rig exploded on April 20 and sunk, Allen said. The latest
government estimate set the flow at between 35,000 barrels and
60,000 barrels a day before the well was shut on July 15.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Houston at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. Coast Guard National Incident Commander Thad Allen. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
