-- BP Sues Six Ex-Staff Over Breaches to Help Brightoil
-- Andrea Tan
-- 2010-07-23T10:06:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/bp-sues-six-former-singapore-staff-for-misusing-confidential-information.html

          
          
             (Corrects claim to breach of duties in headline and first
paragraph.)  
 BP Plc (BP/)  is suing six former members
of its energy team in Singapore claiming they breached their
duties to help rival Shenzhen Brightoil Group gain a “strategic
advantage.”  
 The six, including Quek Chin Thean, formerly global head of
residues trading, and legal manager Simon Cheong, had “access
to and possessed intricate knowledge” of BP’s business and
commercial strategies and trade secrets, according to papers
filed with the Singapore High Court. Unauthorized disclosure of
the information would harm BP “immeasurably” and create a
“significant new competitor that is well aware of our trading
strategies,” BP said in the court filing.  
 Quek, who was “widely respected on the trading floor” and
seen “as one of the symbols for local leadership,” together
with Cheong orchestrated the mass departures at BP by offering
sign-on bonuses, according to court papers. Both men “actively
assisted”  Brightoil (933) , a direct rival, in setting up a competing
business while still in the London-based company’s employment,
BP said in the papers.  
 Standard Chartered Ltd., Citigroup Inc.,  Societe Generale
SA (GLE) , Mercuria Energy Ltd.,  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL)  and Trafigura Beheer
BV are hiring energy traders in  Asia  amid rising demand in the
region for coal, oil and natural gas. Singapore, which is the
Asian oil-trading hub, is offering tax breaks and incentives to
lure companies to boost hiring.  
 Sign-on Fees  
 Five of the six were accused by BP of misusing confidential
information. Cheong wasn’t one of the five.  
 The six including Paul John Bradshaw, head of operations
eastern hemisphere, trading manager John Foo, regional marine
sales manager Clarence Chang, and executive assistant Laura Kuan
received a sign-on fee from Brightoil that constitutes a
“secret profit” and breaches their fidelity duties and code of
conduct to BP, the court papers showed.  
 The group had pledged not to compete with BP and act with
honesty and loyalty when they signed on their employment
contracts, BP said. Quek, who began working at BP in 1992, also
recruited three U.S.-based colleagues to Brightoil, according to
the lawsuit. Foo, Bradshaw and Kuan also made unauthorized
downloads from BP’s computer networks, BP said.  
 “Investigations are ongoing,” said Lau Lu Ching, a
Singapore-based spokeswoman at BP, declining to comment further.
Quek and Foo didn’t answer calls to their mobile phones. Shirley
Kwok at Brightoil’s investor relations department in  Hong Kong 
declined comment. Brightoil isn’t named as a defendant in this
lawsuit. The six have yet to file their defense as of today.  
 ‘Quick’ Departures  
 BP suspected the resignations were engineered after the
employees didn’t offer any reason for their departures, which
were in “quick succession,” according to the papers. The  oil
company  started an investigation and discovered the six had
acted wrongfully and breached their duties to BP. Evidence of e-mail correspondence between Quek and Brightoil Chairman Raymond Sit Kwong Lam as well as Vice President Michael Zhang indicated
they planned on setting up a Singapore-based oil-trading firm,
BP said in the court papers.  
 BP also found messages on Chang’s mobile phone that
indicated a BP employee was diverting the company’s customers to
Brightoil while another employee was “deliberately sabotaging”
and acting against BP’s interests.  
 BP said in the papers that it lost the opportunity to
address any human-resources issues and stem the loss of its
staff as a result of the sudden and mass resignations of “so
many valuable employees.”  
 The case is BP  Singapore  Pte vs Quek Chin Thean & Anor
S482/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        