-- Investigators Drill In on BP's Cost Concerns on Doomed Gulf Rig
-- Mark Chediak
-- 2010-07-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/bp-wasn-t-focused-on-cost-savings-well-official-tells-rig-disaster-panel.html

          
          
             Federal investigators focused their
inquiry into the cause of  BP Plc’s  Gulf of Mexico well disaster
on whether the company sacrificed safety to cut costs.  
 John Guide, BP’s well-site team leader who oversaw top BP
managers on the Deepwater Horizon rig, told officials economics
weren’t a factor when questioned about several decisions taken
before the disaster. These included the use of a less-expensive
well casing design, and limiting tests meant to ensure the
structural integrity of the Macondo well.  
 Guide testified at  a hearing  held by a joint U.S. Coast
Guard and Interior Department panel in Kenner, Louisiana
yesterday. “Cost savings is never in the picture,” Guide told
the panel. “When it comes to safety, never.”  
 The panel is investigating what caused the Transocean Ltd.-
operated rig to explode on April 20, about 40 miles (64
kilometers) off the coast of Louisiana. The blast killed 11
workers and triggered the worst oil spill in U.S. history. It’s
the third round of hearings, which started in May.  
 A  BP  e-mail said an alternative well casing design, called
a ‘tie-back liner,’ with more potential protective barriers
would cost $7 million to $10 million more, Jason Mathews, an
investigation board member with the Interior Department’s Bureau
of  Ocean Energy Management , said yesterday. The bureau is the
successor to the Minerals Management Service.  
 BP preferred a so-called ‘long-string’ casing “because it
gives you better long-term well-bore integrity,” Guide said.
“It just happened to also be a case when it did cost less, so
it was a win-win,” Guide said.  
 ‘Good Cement Job’  
 A backup test on the well seal, called a cement bond log,
wasn’t run because initial indications were that it was a
“good cement job,” Guide said. The procedure would have cost
more than $100,000 and taken more time, Donald Godwin, an
attorney for  Halliburton Co. , said at the hearing while
questioning Guide. Halliburton provided some well services to BP
on Macondo.  
 Guide said he didn’t review a Halliburton report that said
BP would face a greater risk of gas escaping into the well if it
failed to alter its design.  
 BP’s well site leader for the Deepwater Horizon and a
 Transocean  rig worker had raised concerns about feeling
pressured to speed up work on the vessel, according to testimony
given yesterday.  
 BP well leader  Robert Kaluza  told company investigators
that some procedures on the day of the explosion may have been
done to “save time,” according to a transcript of Kaluza’s
interview read aloud during the hearing. The document was read
by Steve Gordon, an attorney representing Transocean worker
Douglas Brown, who was on the rig when it exploded.  
 Feeling Pressure  
 “At the end of the well, they think about speeding up,”
Kaluza told BP investigators, according to the document.  
 Kaluza and Pat O’Bryan, BP’s vice president of drilling and
completions, were named "parties of interest’’ by the panel, U.S.
Coast Guard Captain and panel co-chairman Hung Nguyen said
yesterday. Kaluza and O’Bryan are the first two BP employees to
be named targets by government investigators.  
 The wife of Shane Roshto, a Transocean worker who died
during the rig blast, testified yesterday that her husband told
her he was feeling “pressure,” and she thought it was because
the rig was behind schedule.  
 “This is a well from hell,” Natalie Roshto quoted her
husband as saying. “He said Mother Nature just doesn’t want to
be drilled here.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Chediak  in New Orleans at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. Coast Guard Captain Hung Nguyen. Photographer Brett Duke/Pool via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Joseph Mason, a professor of finance at Louisiana State University, discusses the possible economic impact of the moratorium on new deepwater drilling following the BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.
     Mason is author of a study, commissioned by the American Energy Alliance, that finds the moratorium may cost the Gulf region 8,169 jobs and about $2.1 billion in economic losses in its first six months. The study also predicts that nationwide job losses will reach 12,000 in six months, costing the U.S. economy about $2.8 billion in lost growth and $219 million in tax revenue. Mason talks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
