-- Brazil Bonds Top Inflation Debt by Most Since '05 as Meirelles Cools GDP
-- Gabrielle Coppola
-- 2010-07-23T22:19:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/brazil-bonds-top-inflation-debt-by-most-since-05-as-meirelles-cools-gdp.html

          
          
             Brazilian fixed-rate bonds are
beating inflation-linked debt for a fourth straight month, the
longest streak since 2005, after central bankers confirmed
investor expectations that consumer price increases are slowing.  
 Fixed-rate bonds  gained 1.2 percent this month, compared
with a 1.1 percent return for  notes linked to the IPCA index ,
according to data compiled by Rio de Janeiro-based National
Association of Financial Market Institutions.  
 The benchmark securities are heading for their biggest
advance since May 2009 as consumer prices drop and growth slows
after expanding at the fastest pace in 15 years in the first
quarter. Central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  raised the
overnight lending rate 50 basis points on July 21, surprising 48
of 51 analysts in a Bloomberg survey who forecast an increase of
75 basis points, or 0.75 percentage point.  
 “The market is reacting to a more dovish central bank at
this stage,” said  Luiz Fernando Figueiredo , a former Brazilian
central bank director who oversees 1 billion reais ($569
million) at Sao Paulo-based hedge fund Maua Investimentos Ltda.
“We’ve seen some signs of deceleration in activity and more
benign inflation numbers.”  
 Yields on Brazil’s 10 percent bonds due in January 2012
fell 40 basis points in the past three months, the biggest drop
since March 2009, to 11.73 percent at 6:16 a.m. in New York. The
yield on the country’s 6 percent inflation-linked bonds maturing
in August 2012 fell 18 basis points to a three-month low of 6.26
percent.  
 Deflation Reading  
 The gap between the two securities, which reflects
investors’ expectations of the average inflation rate, narrowed
to 547 from 580 on May 4.  
 Investor demand for inflation protection is waning after
 consumer prices  fell 0.09 percent in the month through mid-July,
the first deflation reading since 2006, and retail sales climbed
10.2 percent in May, less than analysts forecast.  
 Meirelles, 64, and his colleagues voted in a unanimous
decision to lift the benchmark rate to 10.75 percent from 10.25
percent on July 21, saying in a statement that inflationary
risks have eased because of “the recent evolution of domestic
and external factors.”  
 U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told
lawmakers on July 21 that the outlook for the world’s largest
economy “remains unusually uncertain.” European countries are
implementing austerity measures to reduce budget deficits,
sparking concern their economic recoveries will falter.  
 ‘Soft Patch’  
 “Meirelles is concerned about the U.S. and European
economies, and he found a soft patch in the Brazilian economy,”
said  Guilherme Figueiredo , who oversees $1.3 billion as director
at M. Safra & Co. in Sao Paulo. The outperformance of the fixed-
rate bonds shows “the market is more comfortable with
inflation,” he said.  
 The yield on the interbank rate futures contract due in
January rose six basis points to 10.94 percent, a level that
indicates traders expect the central bank to raise its benchmark
target another 50 basis point by year-end. The yield has slumped
36 basis points in the past month, the biggest drop since March
2009.  
 Bonds tied to inflation may start to outperform as a
decline in the unemployment rate and an increase in wages fuel
consumer price increases, according to Maua’s Figueiredo.  
 Unemployment  fell to 7 percent in June from 7.5 percent in
May, the national statistics office said yesterday in Rio de
Janeiro. Annual inflation, while falling to 4.7 percent through
mid-July from 5.1 percent in June, remains above the central
bank’s target of 4.5 percent.  
 ‘Under Control’  
 “We are still seeing a tight labor market,” said  Marcelo Saddi Castro , who oversees 18 billion reais as chief investment
officer at SulAmerica Investimentos in Sao Paulo. “Inflation is
still a concern, and activity is in a good shape. The yield
curve will have to move higher.”  
 The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian dollar-
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed eight basis points to
210, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes. The yield gap
has fallen from a nine-month high of 251 on June 8.  
 The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years was little changed at 120, according to CMA
DataVision prices. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  
 The real fell 0.9 percent to 1.7738 per dollar.  
 Brazil’s fixed-rate bonds returned 2.3 percent in the
second quarter, following a 3.2 percent gain in the first three
months of this year. Inflation-linked notes with a maturity less
than five years gained 1.9 percent and 3.9 percent,
respectively.  
 Budget Minister  Paulo Bernardo  told reporters in Brasilia
yesterday that there is “no need” for the central bank to
raise rates again this year.  
 “Inflation is back under control,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at   yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
 Gabrielle Coppola  in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Brazil's central bank president Henrique Meirelles. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- Andrew Bosomworth, head of portfolio management at Pacific Investment Management Co. in Munich, talks about bond investments and the outlook for sovereign debt in Europe.
     Bosomworth speaks in Frankfurt with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
