-- Brazil Considering Tax Breaks to Encourage Long-Term Lending, Mantega Says
-- Cecilia Tornaghi
-- 2010-07-23T19:48:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/brazil-considering-tax-breaks-to-encourage-long-term-lending-mantega-says.html

          
          
             Brazil’s government is considering
tax breaks to stimulate long-term lending for infrastructure
investment, helping to reduce the lending burden on the state
development bank, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said.  
 Mantega, in an interview in Sao Paulo, said that among the
measures being considered is to cut income taxes for investment
in debentures and to develop a secondary market for them. He
said the measures will be ready before President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva leaves office in January.  
 The development bank, known as BNDES, needs to reduce its
dependence on government funding, and private banks should step
up long-term lending needed to boost Brazil’s economic growth
potential, Mantega said. Of the 700 billion reais ($397 billion)
invested in Brazil in 2010, about 120 billion reais will come
from the federal government and state-controlled companies and
130 billion reais with loans from BNDES, he said.  
 “We want to stimulate the private sector so it can supply
credit that has been the responsibility of BNDES,” said
Mantega, a former head of the Rio de Janeiro-based bank. If the
government hadn’t provided BNDES with 200 billion reais during
the global credit crisis, “Brazil would’ve suffered the same
fate as other economies” and contracted 3 percent, he added.  
 Yields on interest-rate futures contract maturing in
January, the most traded on Sao Paulo’s BM&F exchange, rose six
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 10.94 percent at 3:44
p.m. New York time.  
 The real, whose 33 percent appreciation last year was the
biggest among major currencies, has fallen 0.8 percent against
the dollar this year to 1.7587 reais per dollar.  
 Growth Slowing  
 Latin America’s biggest economy will expand 0.5 percent to
1 percent in the second quarter, and 7 percent from a year ago,
Mantega said.  
 Mantega, 61, would not comment on the central bank’s
decision to raise interest rates this week by a less-than-
expected 0.50 percentage point, though he said Brazil’s economy
is already growing at a slower pace.  
 Central Bank  
 The central bank signaled it may leave the Selic unchanged
for the rest of 2010 after policy makers increased the benchmark
rate to 10.75 percent from 10.25 percent on July 21,  surprising 
48 of 51 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg who expected a third
straight 75 basis-point increase.  
 Following the central bank’s rate decision, Budget Minister
 Paulo Bernardo  said that “inflation is back under control” and
there is no need for another increase before Lula steps down in
January.  
 Brazil’s $1.6 trillion economy is showing signs of slowing,
after expanding  9 percent  in the first quarter, the fastest pace
in 15 years. Brazil created  fewer jobs  and collected  less tax
revenue  than expected in June, while  retail sales  and industrial
output missed estimates in May.  
 Consumer prices  fell 0.09 percent in the month through mid-
July, the first drop in four years, the statistics agency said
this week. Annual inflation slowed to 4.74 percent, the lowest
since February, while still above the bank’s 4.5 percent target.  
 Mantega today said he expects GDP to expand 6.5 percent to
7 percent this year. That’s below the median 7.2 percent
estimate in the latest central bank survey.  
 BNDES Lending  
 Mantega said it’s possible to wean BNDES off government
funding and use tax breaks to stimulate long-term investment.  
 “BNDES needs to rely more on the market and less on the
government,” he said.  
 The Rio de Janeiro-based bank  lent  137.4 billion reais last
year, more than double the 64.9 billion lent in 2007, as credit
and investment dried up during the global financial crisis.
Lending jumped 41 percent to 46 billion reais during the first
five months of this year compared with the same period a year
ago.  
 The $11 billion Belo Monte hydroelectric dam in the Amazon
rain forest is among the projects that could benefit from the
development of a debenture market in Brazil.  
 “It’s better to stimulate the private market than to
insist with the state-controlled banks,”  Roberto Padovani ,
chief economist at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA, said in a phone
interview from Sao Paulo. “Subsidized loans by BNDES end up
curtailing incentives for the private banks to increase loans.”  
 BNDES’s key interest rate for loans, known as  TJLP , is 6
percent, or 475 basis points below the central bank’s 10.75
percent benchmark lending rate.  
 Lula appointed Mantega to become his finance minister in
2006, after serving as budget minister and head of BNDES. The
former economics professor at Sao Paulo’s Getulio Vargas
Foundation has been an adviser to Lula since 1993.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cecilia Tornaghi  in Sao Paulo at 
 ctornaghi@bloomberg.net ;
 Andre  Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Guido Mantega, Brazil's minister of finance, speaks to the media during the Group of 20 summit in Toronto. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
