-- BT Group, Mattel, Pirate Party, Gucci, Capcom, BYD: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-07-23T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/bt-group-mattel-pirate-party-gucci-capcom-byd-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             BT Group Plc’s  British
Telecommunications unit sued chipmaker Analog Devices Inc. in
the U.S., demanding patent royalties for an invention related to
data compression and encoding.  
 Analog Devices is making chipsets for mobile phones that
violate a patent issued in 1992 for “encoding, decoding and
transmitting data in compressed form,” London-based British
Telecom said in a complaint filed July 21 in federal court in
Boston. It asked the court to order compensation for the use of
its invention.  
 BT Group, the U.K.’s largest telephone company, has filed a
half-dozen lawsuits against chipmakers including  Broadcom Corp. ,
 Texas Instruments Inc.  and  Freescale Semiconductor Inc.  in an
effort to collect royalties on the patent, which expired in
October.  
 Under U.S. law, patent owners can seek compensation over
expired patents for infringements that occurred when the patent
was in force. They can’t get a court order affecting sales.  
 BT Chief Executive Officer Ian Livingston has slashed jobs
and replaced executives at the global-services unit to combat
falling sales amid the economic slowdown. The company in May
said it plans to increase its investment for a high-speed fiber
network serving U.K. homes.  
 Officials with Norwood, Massachusetts-based Analog Devices
didn’t immediately return a message seeking comment.  
 The case is British Telecommunications Plc v. Analog
Devices Inc., 10cv11227, U.S. District Court, District of
Massachusetts (Boston).  
 Nuance Sued by Vlingo Over Voice-Recognition Patents  
 Vlingo Corp.,  whose products help mobile telephones
recognize voice commands, sued rival  Nuance Communications Inc. 
alleging infringement of five U.S. patents.  
 Vlingo, based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, is seeking a
jury trial, an order to stop the infringement and unspecified
damages, according to a complaint filed July 21 in federal court
in Wilmington, Delaware.  
 “Nuance’s acts of infringement have caused harm, reparable
and irreparable, to Vlingo” and “Nuance will continue to
infringe” unless stopped by the court, the plaintiff’s  lawyers 
said in court papers.  
 Nuance, with $950.4 million in sales last fiscal year, sued
Vlingo in federal court in Texas in 2008, asserting its own
patent against Vlingo. That case was transferred to
Massachusetts in 2009 and is continuing with document gathering.  
 Richard Mack, a spokesman for Burlington, Massachusetts-
based Nuance, didn’t immediately return voice and e-mail
messages seeking comment on the Delaware lawsuit.  
 In dispute are patents 5,956,681; 6,563,911; 6,606,611;
6,671,354; and 6,813,603.  
 The case is Vlingo Corp. v. Nuance, 10CV621 U.S. District
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 For more patent news, click here.  
 Copyright  
 Mattel Loses Appeal Court Ruling on Bratz Dolls Copyright  
 Mattel Inc., which won the rights to rival MGA
Entertainment Inc.’s Bratz dolls after a copyright trial, had
them taken away by an appeals court whose ruling may force the
Barbie-doll maker to retry the matter.  
 The U.S. Court of Appeals in San Francisco overturned a
December 2008 order that gave Mattel the rights to most of MGA’s
Bratz products after a jury found the designer who created the
dolls was working at Mattel when he conceived of them and made
the initial drawings for them.  
 “It is not equitable to transfer this billion-dollar
brand, the value of which is overwhelmingly the result of MGA’s
legitimate efforts, because it may have started with two
misappropriated names,” Judge Alex Kozinski wrote for the
appeals court panel in yesterday’s ruling.  
 The appellate court said it was likely that a significant
portion of the jury verdict and damages award would need to be
vacated and that the entire case will probably be retried.  
 Kozinski also said the trial court gave the designs too
broad a range of copyright protection.  
 “Producing small plastic dolls that resemble young females
is a staple of the fashion doll market,” he wrote. The
expression of an attractive young, female fashion doll with
exaggerated proportions is “highly constrained” because some
exaggerations would make the dolls “freakish, not idealized,”
he said.  
 Because of the narrow range of possible expression, the
preliminary pattern for the doll “is entitled to only thin
copyright protection against virtually identical copying,”
Kozinski wrote in the court’s opinion.  
 “We look forward to a full trial on all Mattel’s claims
against MGA,” El Segundo, California-based Mattel said in a
statement. “We believe that such a trial will present a
comprehensive and even more compelling case for Mattel than was
possible with a divided trial.”  
 The trial court jury in Riverside, California, found that
ex-Barbie designer Carter Bryant came up with the Bratz idea and
made most of the original sketches for it while he was still at
Mattel. It awarded Mattel $100 million in damages, 5 percent of
the $2 billion the toymaker sought.  
 “This is a breathtaking opinion by a unanimous panel of
the Ninth Circuit,” Thomas Nolan, a lawyer with Skadden, Arps,
Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, who represented Van Nuys, California-
based MGA during the trial, said in a statement. “The panel
endorsed all of the arguments that MGA has been advancing
throughout this protracted litigation.”  
 Mattel’s case was argued by  Daniel Paul Collins  of  Munger
Tolles & Olson LLP  of Los Angeles. MGA’s case was argued by  E.
Joshua Rozenkranz  of San Francisco’s  Orrick, Herrington &
Sutcliffe LLP .  
 The case is MGA Entertainment Inc. v. Mattel Inc., 09-
55673, 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (San Francisco). The
district court case is Bryant v. Mattel, 2:04-09049-DOC-RNB,
U.S. District Court, Central District of California (Riverside).  
 Pirate Party to Set up ISP Through Sweden’s Parliament  
 The Pirate Party, which opposes copyright and other forms
of intellectual-property law, said it will become an Internet
service provider for a search engine used for music and film
downloading, the Stockholm News  reported .  
 The party plans to host the site through Sweden’s
parliament because the nation’s constitution guarantees that
members of parliament cannot be sued or prosecuted for actions
that are part of their political mandate, according to Stockholm
News.  
 In a statement published in Sweden’s Aftonbladet newspaper,
the party said this act would buy its Internet customers “a
short respite from the copyright industry’s legal barrage,”
according to Stockholm News.  
 For more copyright news, click here.  
 Trademark  
 Gucci Stops Founder’s Descendant From Using Name for Hotel  
 Gucci, the luxury-goods company owned by  PPR SA,  said it
won an injunction preventing unauthorized use of the Elisabetta
Gucci name, thwarting plans by the great-granddaughter of the
founder to open a chain of hotels under her moniker.  
 The use of Elisabetta Gucci’s name “has caused customer
confusion and has been harmful to Gucci’s business,” the
company said in an e-mail yesterday that was confirmed by a
spokeswoman. The ruling by a Florence court “will hopefully act
as a significant deterrent for those who intend to unlawfully
license or commercially exploit the Gucci trademarks.”  
 Calls and e-mails to Elisabetta Gucci’s Dubai office
weren’t immediately answered. Lorens Ziller, managing partner of
her eponymous company, didn’t immediately return e-mails seeking
comment.  
 Elisabetta Gucci had plans to open an 87-suite hotel in
Dubai by the end of the year, Ziller said last month. Branded as
 EG Hotels & Resorts by Elisabetta Gucci , the property was to
showcase furniture she designed and to be built by Formitalia
Srl, Ziller said.  
 Ziller and Formitalia must “immediately cease any use of
the mark at issue as well as of the domain name ‘Elisabetta
Gucci’ for any business or advertising purpose,” Gucci said.
The same applies to Mirabili Srl and Formitalia Group SpA, it
said. The court imposed a penalty for any violation and awarded
Gucci legal fees, the company said.  
 The Dubai hotel will be the first of 40 to open globally in
the next 15 years, Ziller said last month. Elisabetta Gucci’s
partner is Baitek International Investment, owned by Saudi
Arabian investor Abdulla Al Sayegh.  
 Capcom Looks to Enter Social Networks, Application Indicates  
 Capcom Co. , an Osaka, Japan-based video-game developer, may
be planning to enter the social-network space, if a recent
trademark application is any indication.  
 The company, publisher of the “Resident Evil” and
“Street Fighter” game series, said in May it was planning to
introduce a game on Facebook Inc.’s social-network site.  
 According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, Capcom filed an application July 16 to register
“Comuken” as a trademark. The company said it plans to use the
mark for online social-networking services, providing computer
games to others that may be accessed via the Internet, and
computer software for use in social-networking database
management.  
 The application was submitted on Capcom’s behalf by  Curtis
B. Hamre  of Minneapolis-based  Hamre Schumann Mueller & Larson
PC .  
 The patent office database indicates Capcom submitted an
additional trademark application in July, this time to register
“Lil’ Pirates” for computer game software.  
 Vietnamese Province Urged to Get Trademarks for Coffee, Tea  
 Vietnam’s Lam Dong province should obtain a trademark for
its coffee as a key to further economic development, Prime
Minister Nguyen Tan Dung told a meeting of the province’s
leaders,  according to  the Voice of Vietnam news website.  
 The prime minister said that with the province’s potential
for organic farms and food processing, brand names should be
built for coffee and tea, Voice of Vietnam reported.  
 For more trademark news, click here.  
 Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  
 Hon Hai Sues BYD Employees in Illinois Over Trade Secrets  
 Hon Hai Precision Industry Co.  sued three employees of
Chinese competitor  BYD Co.  in an Illinois court, alleging they
participated in an international conspiracy to steal its trade
secrets and hire away company employees.  
 Stella K. Li, Michael Austin and Sun Jian are alleged to
have orchestrated the actions while employed at BYD in order to
gain business from Taipei-based Hon Hai, also known as Foxconn,
according to a copy of the complaint filed yesterday in state
court in Chicago.  
 Hon Hai is seeking return of its proprietary and
confidential information as well as compensatory and punitive
damages.  
 BYD didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail requesting
comment.  
 Hon Hai is represented by J. Patrick Herald, Michael L.
Morkin and Michael C. McCutcheon of  Baker & McKenzie LLP .  
 The case is Hon Hai Precision Industry Ltd. v. Stella K.
Li, 2010-L-008374, Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois
(Chicago).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        