-- Can't Get to the Bat Cave, Robin, as U.S. Seals Lairs Amid Virus Outbreak
-- Arielle Fridson
-- 2010-07-23T12:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/bug-eating-bats-bite-the-dust-in-midwest-endangering-u-s-soy-corn-crops.html

          
          
             Hikers may be locked out of hundreds
of caves and 30,000 abandoned mines in the U.S. West and Midwest
in a government plan to protect bat from man.  
 The cave closings may come “as early as this week,”
according to U.S. Forest Service spokeswoman Janelle Smith, and
are the latest efforts to combat a disease called  White Nose
Syndrome  that decimated bat communities in 13 states and two
Canadian provinces. The disease, perhaps caused by a fungus, may
spread to more states as hikers and tourists inadvertently carry
spores on their clothing, Smith said.  
 The loss of swaths of the U.S. bat population may threaten
corn and soybean crops and other parts of the U.S. agriculture
and timber industries, said Mollie Matteson, a conservation
advocate at the  Center for Biological Diversity  in Tucson,
Arizona, in an interview. Bats help control insect pests, eating
as much as two-thirds of their body weight per night, said  Holly
K. Ober , assistant professor at the University of Florida in
Quincy, Florida, in a 2008 Department of Wildlife Ecology and
Conservation  document .  
 “It’s a catastrophic situation for bats,” said Jeremy
Coleman, a biologist with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service who
studies White Nose Syndrome in Cortland, New York. “We don’t
have any tools at our ready to treat them or to control the
spread, other than closing access to humans,” he said in a July
16 telephone interview.  
 “There are just too many unknowns” until research
uncovers more information showing how to thwart the disease,
Coleman said.  
 Insect Feast  
 The  big brown bat , a species widely distributed in North
America, feasts on insects that destroy corn, soybean and cotton
crops, according to the report by University of Florida’s Ober.  
 The fungus thought to cause the disease was first detected
in New York in 2006 and may have killed more than one million
bats, according to a May  report  from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service. The agency called the disease “the worst wildlife
health crisis in memory.”  
 The disease only affects hibernating bat species, which
account for a little over half of the 45 varieties in North
America, said Matteson. So far nine species, including the big
brown bat, are known to be affected. Some of them are now
threatened with extinction, the May report said.  
 “It’s a huge loss in the natural pest control system,”
said Ober in a telephone interview yesterday. “There has never
been anything like this before in terms of a pest control
population dying.”  
 ‘Bat Death Zone’  
 Federally managed mines and bat caves in Colorado, Kansas,
Nebraska, South Dakota and parts of Wyoming will be closed,
according to Smith, a spokeswoman for the  Rocky Mountain
Regional Office  of the Forest Service in Denver, Colorado.
Thousands of caves and mines on federal land have already been
closed to “cavers,” or cave hikers, across the country.  
 The new closures were proposed in May when the disease
appeared to be traveling into the Southwest after a case was
confirmed in Western  Oklahoma . The disease spread from New York
into Ontario, as well as into the Midwest and the South along
the Appalachian chain, Coleman said. The wildlife service now
refers to this extended area as “the bat death zone.”  
 “We want to take action soon but we haven’t made the
decision final yet,” Smith said in a July 19 telephone
interview. The delay is caused by the Forest Service’s need to
coordinate with the  National Park Service  and the  Bureau of Land
Management. All  three must close sites at the same time in order
to slow the rate of infection in the region, she said.  
 Hikers Help  
 Individual caves that are not home to hibernating species
might be closed for one year or less, Smith said. Limiting the
closures in this way is a priority for the American cave-hiking
community, which has been instrumental in identifying afflicted
bat populations, she said. While supportive of state efforts,
cavers are reluctant to curtail their explorations.  
 Cavers are angry about the closures because they say it’s
not proven that humans transmit the disease, according to Alan
Hicks, a wildlife biologist directing a White Nose Syndrome
investigation for the New York State  Department of Environmental
Conservation .  
 Bats, not people, are mainly responsible for spreading the
disease, Hicks said in an interview. The animals fly several
hundred miles over their lives so they’re capable of spreading
the fungus, he said.  
 ‘Pursuing Their Passion’  
 “You need to have a good reason to prevent people from
pursuing their passion,” said Hicks. “You have this natural
 constituency of cavers  that’s pro-conservation. If you start
making decisions about not letting people into these caves for
reasons that don’t make sense, you risk alienating these folks,
who are your natural allies.”  
 Coleman, the federal biologist, said people travel much
greater distances than bats and have the ability to infect bat
populations that would otherwise never encounter the fungus.  
 “I know several cavers who’ve put their gear away and say
they may never go caving again, but it’s their hobby versus the
bats’ survival,” said Matteson. “All we can do now is to buy
some time for bats in areas that are not affected, so that
researchers can find out more about the disease.”  
 Research and monitoring  of White Nose Syndrome is funded by
five organizations at the national level, said Marc Bosch, the
leader of the National Threatened, Endangered & Sensitive
Species Program in Washington, in an interview. They are the
 U.S. Forest Service , an agency of the U.S. Department of
Agriculture; the  U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service ; the  U.S. Bureau
of Land Management ; the  U.S. National Parks Service , and the
 U.S. Geological Survey , which is the research arm of  Department
of the Interior .  
 $1.9 Million for Study  
 In October, President Obama signed a law awarding the Fish
and Wildlife Service’s White Nose Syndrome research effort  $1.9
million , according to the service. Several states and
universities are also backing studies, Bosch said, partly in
recognition of the potentially dire consequences of bat
extinctions for agriculture.  
 Corn futures for December delivery fell 3.25 cents, or 0.8
percent, to $3.9025 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade. The
most-active contract has gained 13 percent since June 29, the
day before the government said that U.S. farmers planted less
this year than they had planned.  
 Soybean futures for November delivery rose 1 cent, or 0.1
percent, to $9.795 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, after
dropping as much as 0.6 percent. The most-active futures have
risen 8.5 this month on speculation that too much rain in June
will reduce the U.S. harvest.  
 Difficult to Study  
 Complicating government countermeasures is the fact that
bats are difficult to study, said Matteson, the conservation
advocate. The first challenge is figuring out how many of them
there are and where they live. Many inhabit caves that can only
be entered through passages too narrow for humans to access. An
untallied number of the caves are on  private estates  that don’t
welcome the researchers, she said.  
 Unable to count either the total population or the number
of bats that have perished, researchers can’t pin down the
severity of the crisis. In spite of the hurdles, New York
investigator Allan Hicks estimated that the disease has wiped
out 95 percent of the bats in his state.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arielle Fridson  in New York at 
 afridson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A little brown bat showing symptoms of White Nose Syndrome. Photographer: Greg Thompson/ U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A little brown bat with White Nose Syndrome hangs in the Greeley Mine in Vermont. Source: U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
