-- California City's $800,000 Manager Quits Amid Outcry
-- Christopher Palmeri
-- 2010-07-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/california-city-manager-earning-800-000-quits-amid-disclosure-questions.html

          
          
             When Bell, California, resident
Roger Ramirez heard in 2008 that the manager of his town of
38,000 residents may be the state’s highest-paid municipal
employee, he asked City Hall. He got only part of the answer.  
 City Clerk Rebecca Valdez sent him a one-page memo that
gave Chief Administrative Officer Robert Rizzo’s annual salary
as $185,736 and that of city council members as $8,076.  
 “I should have asked for other benefits,” Ramirez, an
emergency-call operator, said in a telephone interview. “I went
in and just asked for the  salary  and that’s what they sent me.”  
 Rizzo resigned July 22 after the Los Angeles Times  reported 
July 15 that his total compensation was almost $800,000 a year
and that Bell’s part-time council members took in almost
$100,000 annually, mostly by serving on city-affiliated boards
and commissions. Had Rizzo been an executive at a public
company, his total compensation would have been available on the
Securities and Exchange Commission’s website, a convenience not
open to citizens or bondholders of local governments.  
 “Transparency, there is none,” former Los Angeles Mayor
 Richard Riordan  said of municipal disclosure in an interview.
“The things they hide from the public are just monstrous.”  
 California Attorney General  Jerry Brown , a Democrat running
for governor, and the California Public Employees’ Retirement
System, which administers the state’s pensions, said on July 22
that they would investigate compensation paid by California
local governments.  
 Serious Questions  
 “These outrageous salaries in Bell are shocking and beyond
belief,” Brown said in a  statement . “With record deficits and
painful budget cuts facing California cities, astronomical local
government salaries raise serious questions and demand a
thorough investigation.”  
 The financial regulatory overhaul that President  Barack Obama  signed this week calls for a two-year study of municipal
finance disclosure, including whether to scrap a 1975 law that
prevents the SEC from imposing the same requirements on local
governments that it does on corporations.  
 “One of the issues we are going to look at very, very
closely is disclosure in the markets,” SEC Commissioner  Elisse Walter  said in an interview last week. “We’ve heard from market
participants that there are real questions as to both the
quality, and above all, the timeliness of that disclosure.”  
 Inquiry Under Way  
 Dave Demerjian, head of the public integrity division of
the Los Angeles County District Attorney’s office, said in an
interview that his office had begun an inquiry into Bell council
members’ pay, which he said was $8,083 monthly, or $96,996 a
year. He didn’t have figures for Rizzo. Valdez, the city clerk,
didn’t respond to a request for comment.  
 Bell, 10 miles (16 kilometers) south of Los Angeles, has a
largely Latino population with a per-capita income of $24,800 in
2008, according to the city’s 2009 annual report. That compares
with an average of $32,819 nationwide, 2010 figures from the
U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis show. More than a quarter of
its residents live below the poverty level, according to the
website  City-Data.com . The city has about $150 million in debt
outstanding, the annual report says.  
 The resignation of Rizzo, Assistant City Manager Angela
Spaccia and Police Chief Randy Adams July 22 came after a six-
hour closed session of the council. At least 200 citizens waited
in and outside City Hall, clapping for council members to end
their private meeting. One wore a T-shirt that read “My City Is
More Corrupt Than Your City.”  
 Interim Chief Administrative Officer Pedro Carrillo read a
statement about the resignations before the meeting ended. Mayor
 Oscar Hernandez  left without comment.  
 No Severance  
 Bell City Attorney Edward Lee said the three were resigning
without severance. The Times  reported  July 22 that Rizzo may
become the highest-paid retiree in the Calpers system, with an
estimated pension of $600,000 annually. He was Bell’s city
manager for 17 years.  
 “There’s no way we can legally affect those,” Lee said
when asked by a resident about the pensions.  
 After the meeting ended, some attendees chanted “recall”
and demanded the mayor and council resign.  
 “I’m not satisfied,” Sandra Orozco said in an interview.
“They’re the ones who should step down.”  
 Hernandez, the mayor, released a  statement  yesterday.  
 “We recognize that today’s economic climate and the
financial hardships so many families are suffering put our past
compensation decisions in a new light,” he said.  “To the
residents of Bell, we apologize.”  
 $463 Documents  
 Nestor Valencia, who ran unsuccessfully for City Council in
2007 and 2009, said he, too, had trouble getting information on
city salaries. After his request in February, he was told he
would have to pay $463 for the documents, he said. Valencia, who
is unemployed, didn’t follow up.  
 “You have to have money and time” to get information,
Valencia said in an interview at the council meeting.  
 After the meeting, council member  Lorenzo Velez , who was
appointed last year, answered questions. The 55-year-old heavy-
machinery operator said he didn’t receive the same compensation
as other council members and wasn’t aware of their pay until the
Times report. He said the others should resign.  
 “Don’t close your eyes to the everyday business of your
city,” Velez said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Palmeri  in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        