-- Canada's Budget Deficit Narrows 41% in First Two Months on Sales Tax Gains
-- Theophilos Argitis
-- 2010-07-23T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/canada-s-budget-deficit-narrows-41-in-first-two-months-on-sales-tax-gains.html

          
          
             Canada’s budget deficit narrowed 41
percent in the first two months of its current fiscal year
because of higher sales tax receipts and falling payments to
unemployed workers.  
 Canada recorded a deficit of C$4.43 billion ($4.26 billion)
in April and May, down from C$7.53 billion in the first two
months of the previous fiscal year, according to a statement
released today by the finance department.  
 Faster-than-expected growth suggests Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  will have more scope to reduce record deficits.
Flaherty has come under pressure from opposition parties for
pressing ahead with corporate tax cuts even as the government
runs budget gaps.  
 Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s government released a
fiscal plan in March that eliminated tariffs for manufacturing
imports and confirmed a schedule for corporate tax cuts that
Canada says will give it the lowest tax rate in the Group of
Seven. The governing Conservatives have pledged to balance the
budget within five years by controlling spending for defense,
international aid and government operations.  
 The government projected March 4 that its deficit for the
fiscal year that began April 1 will narrow to C$49.2 billion,
down from an estimated record C$53.8 billion last year.  
 Revenue from the federal sales tax jumped 87 percent in the
two month period to C$4.28 billion, the finance department said
today. Total revenue increased 7 percent to C$36.9 billion.  
 Jobless payments fell 3.3 percent in April and May, while
total expenses declined 1.6 percent. Public debt charges fell
3.4 percent to C$5 billion on lower borrowing costs.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        