-- Canadians Should Invest More Abroad to Tap Growth, Franklin Templeton Says
-- Matt Walcoff
-- 2010-07-23T18:29:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/canadians-should-invest-more-abroad-to-tap-growth-franklin-templeton-says.html

          
          
             Canadians should invest more abroad
to tap cheaper stocks after indexes in the U.S., Europe, the U.K
and Japan underperformed the Toronto stock market over the past
three years, Franklin Templeton money managers said.  
 Canada’s performance versus other developed markets has
been a historical anomaly,  Lisa Myers , lead manager of the
flagship Templeton Growth Fund, said in Toronto yesterday. MSCI
World Index stocks now trade at  $1.70 per dollar of book value ,
down from an average of $2.70 in the 13 years ending in August
2008, Bloomberg data shows. Stocks in the Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite Index trade at $1.88 per dollar of book value.  
 “Investors seem to be overlooking some very powerful
countervailing forces to the world’s debt problems,” said
Myers, whose fund has $15.8 billion in assets. She cited share
valuation and prospects of growth after corporate cash on hand
at Stoxx Europe 600 and S&P 500 index non financial companies
soared to more than $2 trillion at the end of last year.  
 The S&P/TSX has outperformed rival equity benchmarks since
July 2007 as Canada, which expects to be the first G-7 country
to start running budget surpluses again, lured investors with
its fiscal strength and a banking system that has made it
through the financial crisis without a bailout or failure.  
 Templeton International Stock Fund is overweight in the
U.K., Netherlands and Norway, meaning it has a greater
percentage of its holdings in those countries than a benchmark
index would.  
 Cadbury Stake  
 Franklin Templeton’s Mutual Discovery Fund has kept its
foot in Europe through stakes in companies like Cadbury Plc,
which was acquired by Kraft Foods Inc. in March for about 11.7
billion pounds ($17 billion), the managers said.  
 “There are a great number of European companies which have
very little to do with Europe, which derive a very great portion
of their revenue and earnings from regions like North America
and particularly Asia,” said  Philippe Brugère-Trélat , co-lead
manager of the $15.7 billion Mutual Global Discovery Fund, which
has outperformed 83 percent of funds with similar objectives
this year. “These companies have been painted with the same
brush in the indiscriminate markdown of European equities.”  
 One such company is A P Moller-Maersk A/S of Denmark, owner
of the world’s largest container line, which got 52 percent of
its revenue from outside of Europe in 2008, the last time it
reported such a figure.  
 The Mutual Global Discovery Fund, which has  almost doubled 
over the past decade, became interested last year when the
company was “probably the most-heavily shorted stock in the
European equity universe,” Brugère-Trélat said.  
 “We like to go where it’s unpopular. We like to go where
it’s complicated. We like to go where analysts shy away because
it’s opaque,” Brugère-Trélat said.  
 Maersk shares have soared  62 percent  over the past year,
compared with an 8.3 percent gain for the MSCI World Index.  
 Myers, Brugère-Trélat and other managers from units of San
Mateo, California-based Franklin Resources Inc. spoke at
Franklin Templeton’s Investment Outlook and Opportunities Forum
2010.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        