-- Canadian Currency Erases Decline as Stock Rebound Overshadows Drop by Oil
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-07-23T20:40:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/canada-s-dollar-declines-after-report-shows-inflation-rate-slows-in-june.html

          
          
             Canada’s dollar erased a decline as
a rebound in stocks overshadowed a drop in the price of crude
oil, the nation’s largest export.  
 The loonie, as Canada’s currency is nicknamed, earlier fell
versus its U.S. counterpart as a government report showed the
annual inflation rate slowed in June, reducing pressure on the
Bank of Canada to raise  interest rates  later this year. The
central bank cut the nation’s growth forecast this week.  
 “The Canadian dollar is caught in the middle here,”  Steve Butler , director of foreign-exchange trading in Toronto at Bank,
of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit, said by e-mail. “Stocks
are having a great day and a great week, but I think the Bank of
Canada has taken a little bit of the shine off the Canadian
dollar this week.”  
 The currency traded at C$1.0360 per U.S. dollar at 4:35
p.m. in Toronto, compared with C$1.0371 yesterday. Earlier it
fell as much as 0.7 percent to C$1.0438. One Canadian dollar
buys 96.53 U.S. cents.  
 Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  raised the benchmark
interest rate on July 20 by a quarter-percentage point for a
second month, to 0.75 percent, and said further action will be
“weighed carefully against domestic and global economic
developments.”  
 Carney also cut the nation’s growth forecast by 0.2
percentage point this year and next, to 3.5 and 2.9 percent
respectively, and said inflation will stay close to his 2
percent target through 2012.  
 Stress Tests  
 Canada’s currency, which gained 2.1 percent this week,
tracked U.S. stocks higher after the Committee of European
Banking Supervisors released results of stress tests that seven
of 91 banks failed, with a combined capital shortfall of 3.5
billion euros ($4.5 billion).  
 The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index  rose 0.8 percent. Crude for
September delivery fell as much as 1.1 percent to $78.40 a
barrel in New York. The loonie tends to rise and fall with
stocks and equities.  
 Government bonds fell, with Canada’s benchmark 10-year note
yield rising 3 basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.23
percent. The 3.5 percent security due in June 2020 fell 24 cents
to C$102.28.  
 The  consumer price index  rose at an annualized 1 percent in
June, the slowest in seven months, after a 1.4 percent gain in
May, Statistics Canada said today. The core rate that excludes
eight volatile items slowed to an annual 1.7 percent, from 1.8
percent. Economists forecast the inflation rate would be 1
percent and the core rate 1.9 percent, according to the median
of 18 estimates gathered by Bloomberg News.  
 ‘Marginal Weakness’  
 “Probably suggests some marginal weakness” in the
Canadian dollar,  Sebastien Galy , a currency strategist in New
York at BNP Paribas, said by phone from New York, referring to
the effect of the report on the Canadian currency.  
 European Union regulators scrutinized the banks to assess
whether they have enough capital to withstand a recession and
sovereign-debt crisis, with a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6 percent
as a floor. Governments are seeking to reassure investors about
the health of the region’s financial institutions.  
 The loonie, which traded on a one-for-one basis with the
greenback on April 6 for the first time in almost two years, has
gained 5 percent this year, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indices, the second-best performance among its
10 developed world counterparts behind the yen’s 10.5 percent
increase.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        