-- Carbon Emission Reductions Depend on U.S. Agencies, States, Group Says
-- Simon Lomax
-- 2010-07-23T22:11:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/carbon-emission-reductions-depend-on-u-s-agencies-states-group-says.html

          
          
             Federal agencies and state
governments can get the U.S. close to President  Barack Obama ’s
goal for reducing greenhouse-gas emissions after the “apparent
collapse” of congressional efforts to pass new pollution laws,
according to the World Resources Institute.  
 The agencies and states might achieve a 14 percent cut in
U.S. carbon dioxide emissions by 2020 from 2005 levels if they
act with “high ambition,” the Washington-based institute said
in a report today. Obama said last year the U.S. should aim for
a 17 percent carbon cut by 2020.  
 “It is possible to make significant reductions using
existing tools,”  Jonathan Lash , the institute’s president, told
reporters in Washington. The carbon cuts depend on regulations
from the Environmental Protection Agency and other parts of the
federal government together with state-level programs such as a
10-state carbon trading program for power plants in the
Northeast, Lash said.  
 Senate Democrats said yesterday that carbon dioxide cuts
won’t be included in energy legislation scheduled for debate
next week. Cap-and-trade legislation, in which companies buy and
sell carbon pollution rights, stalled in the Senate after
narrowly passing the U.S. House last year.  
 ‘Need Road Map’  
 Agency- and state-imposed carbon cuts aren’t a substitute
for legislation that would set yearly pollution targets out to
2050, Lash said.  
 “We need that long-term road map,” Lash said.  
 If the agency and state actions are “lackluster,” the
2020 reduction in carbon dioxide emissions could be as little as
6 percent, according to the report.  
 U.S. carbon dioxide emissions from the use of coal, oil and
natural gas have already fallen from their 2005 level, according
to Energy Information Administration estimates. After a record
drop in U.S. carbon dioxide output due to the recession last
year, emissions fell to 9.5 percent below the 2005 baseline,
according to EIA data.  
 Carbon dioxide emissions are expected to rise this year
with economic growth up to 6.6 percent below the 2005 level,
according to the EIA.  
 Starting next year, the EPA plans to regulate greenhouse
gases from motor vehicles through tougher fuel-economy
standards. The agency will also phase-in a requirement that new
and modified industrial sources like power plants use the “best
available” technology to curb carbon dioxide emissions.  
 Economic Recovery  
 Republicans and some Democrats in Congress have tried
unsuccessfully to block the EPA’s carbon regulations, arguing
they could hinder the U.S. economy’s recovery from the worst
recession since the Great Depression.  
 Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat, said
today that delaying the EPA’s carbon dioxide regulations for
power plants and factories should be a “high priority” when
lawmakers take up energy legislation next week.  
 Rockefeller said he’ll “push hard” for a two-year delay
of the regulations to prevent “real harm to our economy” and
to give Congress more time to pass legislation that deals with
climate-change.  
 Lash said environmentalists will fight to defend the EPA’s
authority to regulate carbon dioxide, which stems from a 2007
Supreme Court decision on the scope of the Clean Air Act. It
would be a “terrible error” for Congress to “tinker with EPA
jurisdiction” before it’s ready to pass a new law that sets
greenhouse-gas reduction targets for the U.S. economy, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Lomax  in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        