-- Carlyle Said to Withdraw Bid for Stake in San Miguel's Hot-Dog Business
-- Cecilia Yap
-- 2010-07-23T11:03:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/carlyle-said-to-withdraw-bid-for-stake-in-san-miguel-s-hot-dog-business.html

          
          
             The Carlyle Group, the world’s
second-largest private-equity firm, dropped out from bidding
for a stake in  San Miguel Corp. ’s hot dog and poultry unit on
price concerns, two people familiar with the matter said.  
 Carlyle and other bidders had valued the company at about
$1 billion or less, said the people, who requested anonymity
because the discussions are private.  Chris Ullman , a Carlyle
spokesman, declined to comment.  
 San Miguel , the biggest food and drinks maker in the
Philippines, today said there are two remaining bidders for a
minority stake in  San Miguel Pure Foods Co. , down from as many
as five. President  Ramon Ang  earlier this year valued the unit
at $1.8 billion.  
 “The bids may not be close to the value that San Miguel
has stated so the negotiations could take time,” said  Allan Yu ,
who helps manage about $3.5 billion at Manila-based
Metropolitan Bank & Trust Co. and holds preferred shares in San
Miguel. “Pure Food’s strength is in its dominant market share
in the segments it’s in.”  
 A sale would help replenish the acquisition funds of  San
Miguel , which is  expanding  into industries including railways,
energy, telecommunications and mining that it says have a
return on equity that’s triple that of its “traditional” food
and beverage businesses.  San Miguel  had 121.07 billion pesos
($2.6 billion) in cash and near-cash assets as of March 31,
compared with 209.4 billion pesos three months before then.  
 San Miguel’s  A shares , which are reserved for Filipinos,
rose 0.75 percent to close at 67.50 pesos in Manila trading.,
paring their decline this year to 1.5 percent. The company’s  B
shares , which don’t have ownership restrictions, were unchanged
at 68 pesos.  
 JG Summit  
 The Gokongwei, Aboitiz and Campos families had also
submitted bids, Ang said July 20.  
 The Gokongweis’ “JG Summit Group has a good chance of
winning this deal,” said  Peter Lee , senior investment officer
at Manila-based IGC Securities Inc. “Pure Foods will contribute
value to the group’s food and drinks portfolio.”  
 JG Summit Holdings Inc.  owns Universal Robina Corp., the
second-largest Philippine food and drinks company. President
 Lance Gokongwei  declined to comment whether the company or his
family is bidding for Pure Foods.  
 “The two bidders will proceed to further due diligence
prior to final negotiations,” Ang said today, without naming
them. He didn’t reply to requests for comment on the identities
of the bidders.  
 JG Summit rose 3 percent to 17.25 pesos at the noon close
of trading in Manila on speculation it will succeed in its bid
for the hot-dog maker.  
 Pure Foods’ profit  will probably rise 10 percent to 15
percent this year and sales may grow about 10 percent to 83
billion pesos, President  Francisco Alejo  said May 14.  
 The company, which has 44 percent of the Philippine
poultry market and 63 percent of hotdog sales, had record
earnings of 2.6 billion pesos in 2009 on 75.04 billion pesos
sales. It posted 77.19 million pesos net income in 2008.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cecilia Yap  in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        