-- Chinese Banks Need to Raise More Capital to Meet Lending Growth, S&P Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-23T08:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/chinese-banks-need-to-raise-more-capital-to-meet-lending-growth-s-p-says.html

          
          
             Chinese banks will need to raise
more funds to cope with tighter capital requirements and loan
growth in the world’s third-largest economy, a Standard & Poor’s
analyst said.  
 “Banks all want rapid growth and they are keen to extend
credit,” said  Liao Qiang , a credit analyst at S&P, in an
interview in Beijing today. Fitch Ratings warned last week that
first-half Chinese lending was higher than official data suggest
as more loans were repackaged into investment products.  
 China’s five-largest lenders, including  Agricultural Bank
of China Ltd. , plan to raise as much as $53.5 billion to
replenish capital after last year’s $1.4 trillion credit boom
weakened buffers, prompting stricter controls. China Everbright
Bank Co. said yesterday it plans a Shanghai listing that
analysts say may raise as much as $2.7 billion.  
 “With tighter capital requirements, their capital buffer
is not enough,” Liao said. “That’s why you see AgBank and
Everbright pushing so hard to raise capital despite the weak
market.”  
 The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index  has fallen 22
percent this year. Chinese  stocks  rose for a fifth day today on
speculation slowing economic expansion will prompt the
government to relax property curbs and allow more bank lending.
Agricultural Bank gained 2.9 percent to 2.81 yuan, the highest
since its July 15 debut in Shanghai.  
 Chinese companies raised 215.3 billion yuan ($31.8 billion)
from initial public offerings in the first half of 2010, the
most this decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Capital Shortfall  
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., China
Construction Bank Corp., Bank of China Ltd. and Bank of
Communications Ltd. will face a capital shortfall of 480 billion
yuan to comply with requirements for financial strength, ICBC
President  Yang Kaisheng  wrote in an article published in the
21st Century Business Herald in April.  
 China’s banks face rising credit risks and non-performing
loan ratios are likely to increase as the nation’s economy slows
and lending for government projects comes due for repayment, S&P
said in a report yesterday. S&P kept its “stable” outlook on
China’s banking industry, citing “sufficient strength.”  
 It’s “highly likely” that some loans to local government
financing vehicles will turn bad over the next few years, S&P
said in the report. Loans to these entities account for about 18
percent to 20 percent of total lending, the rating company said.  
 Capital Ratios  
 The central bank raised banks’ reserve ratio requirement
three times this year to contain property prices and inflation.
China should lower its reserve requirement for the nation’s
banks, the Financial News reported today, citing Wang Songqi,
deputy director of financial research at the Chinese Academy of
Social Sciences.  
 China’s loan growth will slow in the second half of 2010,
S&P’s Liao said today, with full-year loan growth coming in at
about 20 percent.  
 Chinese policy makers are grappling with risks from last
year’s $1.4 trillion  credit boom  that fueled the nation’s
comeback from the global recession. The banking regulator aims
to cap new loans at 7.5 trillion yuan this year, down 22 percent
from 2009, and has told lenders to report risk exposure to
local-government financing vehicles by the end of June to
prevent a pileup of bad loans.  
 The China Banking Regulatory Commission requires the
country’s largest lenders to have a minimum capital adequacy
ratio of 11.5 percent.  
 The industry’s non-performing loan ratio will rise from an
estimated 3 percent to 4 percent currently, though it will
remain below 10 percent by the end of 2012, S&P projects. S&P’s
estimates include policy banks and rural cooperatives.  
 At the end of the second quarter, the ratio at all
commercial lenders in China, excluding policy banks and rural
cooperatives, fell to 1.3 percent, the banking regulator said
yesterday.  
 China’s annual growth will slow to 8.9 percent in 2011 from
a projected 10 percent for this year, according to the median
forecasts in Bloomberg News surveys. Growth eased to 10.3
percent in the three months to June from a year earlier, from a
pace of 11.9 percent in the first quarter.  
 -- Luo Jun ,  Eva Woo . Editors:  Joost Akkermans ,  Andreea Papuc   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Liao Qiang, a Beijing-based analyst at Standard & Poor’s, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the health of the Chinese banking industry.
     Chinese banks face rising credit risks and their non-performing loan ratios are likely to climb as the nation’s economy slows and lending for government projects comes due for repayment, according to S&P. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
