-- China's Vehicle Prices May Decline Steadily in Second Half, Agency Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-23T02:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/china-s-vehicle-prices-may-decline-steadily-in-second-half-agency-says.html

          
          
             China’s vehicle prices may decline
steadily in the second half of 2010 because of increasing
inventories and pressure by wholesalers to meet sales targets,
the country’s planning ministry said.  
 Automakers may join dealers in offering discounts in the
fourth quarter,  Cheng Xiaodong , an official with the National
Development and Reform Commission, said today in a statement.
China’s car prices fell 1.18 percent in the first half from a
year earlier, according to the agency.  
 Demand  in the world’s biggest auto market may fall from
year-earlier levels in the last six months of 2010, sparking
price wars as dealers compete to clear inventories, according to
Credit Suisse Group AG and consultant IHS Automotive. Wholesale
passenger-car deliveries last month rose at the slowest pace in
15 months as inflation eroded consumers’ buying power.  
 “The high prices we saw last year are long gone,” said  Yu Bing , an analyst at PingAn Securities Co. in Shanghai, who
expects a 5 percent price drop for vehicles that cost about
100,000 yuan ($14,750). “Car prices are no doubt coming down.”  
 China’s vehicle sales, which have risen every month since
February 2009, began growing at a slower rate in April amid
 increasing prices  for consumer goods and signs of a cooling
economy.  
 Sales Tax  
 The government also boosted the sales tax on small cars to
7.5 percent this year, after cutting it in half to 5 percent in
2009 as part of economic stimulus measures. The tax cut helped
last year’s vehicle sales jump 46 percent to 13.6 million,
surpassing the U.S. for the first time.  
 Wholesale passenger-car sales in June rose 19 percent from
a year earlier, the slowest pace since March 2009, as China’s
inflation rate stood at 2.9 percent, the second-highest monthly
rate this year. The nation’s  gross domestic product  expansion
eased to 10.3 percent in the second quarter from 11.9 percent in
the preceding three months, the statistics bureau said on July
15.  
 Domestic auto production exceeded sales by 1.29 million
vehicles in the first half of this year, the China Automotive
Technology & Research Center said on July 5. The average
stockpile period, a measure of the time between car production
and registration, was 55 days in June, compared with 41 days in
February, the center said.  
 New Models  
 Automakers are introducing new models at a faster pace in
the second half, with an average of three being added every week
in July and more than 20 scheduled to come in the next two
months, the Development and Reform Commission said today.  
 Price reductions of as much as 5 percent on average are
likely, according to  Yale Zhang , a Shanghai-based analyst at
consultant IHS Automotive.  
 The Chinese government has been subsidizing rural
residents’ automobile purchases since last year. The country
gave out 7.92 billion yuan to rural residents to help them buy
motorcycles and automobiles in the first half, according to the
planning agency.  
 The government also handed out 2.44 billion yuan to
subsidize trade-ins of old vehicles during the period, the
agency said.  
 -- Tian Ying  in Beijing. Editors:  Terje Langeland ,  Ian Rowley .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ying Tian  in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        