-- China Battles Spreading Oil Slick Off Dalian With Bare Hands, Garbage Bags
-- 
-- 2010-07-23T02:31:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/china-battles-spreading-oil-slick-off-dalian-with-bare-hands-garbage-bags.html

          
          
              
By Keith B. Richburg
     July 23 (Washington Post) -- BEIJING -- Hundreds of
firefighters and civilian volunteers used bare hands, chopsticks
and plastic garbage bags Thursday to wage a low-tech battle
against a giant oil slick spreading off China's northeastern
coast.
     The slick, near the oil port of Dalian, in Liaoning
province, was caused when two pipelines exploded last Friday as
crude was being unloaded from a Libyan tanker. Government
officials said the accident released about 1,500 tons -- or
400,000 gallons -- of oil into the Yellow Sea, where the slick
now covers up to 170 square miles, according to news reports,
making it China's largest recorded spill.
     The BP oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico is estimated in the
tens of millions of gallons.
     "I used small wood planks to scoop up the oil and put it
into big plastic garbage bags," said Liu Jia, a worker at the
Dalian beach resort. "Some of my colleagues used chopsticks. . .
. It works, because the oil is quite sticky. Sometimes, we just
used our hands to pick up the sand that is covered with oil."
     Liu described the methods being used as "quite primitive,
quite time-consuming."
     China National Petroleum Corp. said Thursday that no more
oil was leaking from the damaged pipelines, but the port at
Dalian remained closed as the black oil continued to wash up
onshore. Fishing has been banned in the vicinity at least through
August, and several nearby beaches were also declared off-limits
at the height of the summer tourist season.
     "It should be the best season for the beach right now," said
Bao Wulan, head of public relations for the Dalian Golden Beach
Tourism Group. She said that 70,000 to 80,000 visitors would
normally be in the area this time of year -- "but now, no
tourists."
     She added: "I don't know how our business can go back to
normal. Our beach is almost all polluted."
     The environmental group Greenpeace China said it has found
oil in bays six miles from Dalian, and Jinshitan Golden Beach,
more than 20 miles away, was also reportedly affected. Workers
were laying straw mats at Jinshitan on Thursday in a bid to suck
up the crude.
     Greenpeace said 10,000 shellfish farms have been
contaminated.
     The battle against the spreading oil slick has claimed the
life of one worker, a firefighter who drowned Tuesday.
     Although hundreds of civilian volunteers have been mobilized
to help with the cleanup, the lack of equipment has hindered the
ad hoc effort.
     "We're using rubber gloves, spades, chopsticks and homemade
rakes," said Bao, the tourism group official. She said that the
oil began arriving on the beach around midnight Monday and that
almost all the company's workers were on the beach Tuesday to
help clean up.
     Bao said her company has since moved bulldozers and
earth-moving machines from nearby construction sites to the
beach, and the government said it has dispatched 40 oil-skimming
vehicles and tons of oil-dispersing bacteria to the site.
     Environmental groups warned that the damage could last
years.
     "The oil is impossible to clean up completely," said Zhong
Yu, senior action coordinator of Greenpeace China. "The pollution
will affect the ecological system on the shore and the creatures
in the ocean and will enter the air and soil. It will take a long
time to eliminate the effects."
     She added: "Because we don't know how much oil spilled into
the sea, it's hard to evaluate the impact on the environment
now."
     Zhong said that local fishermen have joined the cleanup
effort but that most lack basic protective equipment.
     "They just wear work overalls," she said. "They have no
masks or other protective equipment to protect their skin and
lungs. It's quite dangerous for them."
     Researcher Zhang Jie contributed to this report.
 
          
          


  


        