-- China Stocks to Start `New Bull Cycle' If Rally Holds: Technical Analysis
-- Shiyin Chen
-- 2010-07-23T02:09:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/china-stocks-to-start-new-bull-cycle-if-rally-holds-technical-analysis.html

          
          
             China’s stocks  may be starting a
“new bull market” that could help the benchmark Shanghai
Composite Index rally 21 percent by the end of the year,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. technical analysts.  
 The  Shanghai Composite  touched 2,319.74 on July 2, reaching
the lower trend line that had marked its decline from the August
2009 high. That’s the last of three major downside targets
needed to “build a positive macro case” for the resumption of
the “bull cycle” that started in October 2008, according to
chief technical strategist  Michael Krauss  and  David Cohen .  
 A rally in Chinese shares this week helped the Shanghai
index end the  trading day  above the 2,500 level for three
consecutive sessions, the “first positive sign,” according to
the analysts. They said closes above 2,650 over the next few
weeks would be “very bullish confirmation” of a rebound that
may take the index to as high as 3,100 by the end of 2010,
representing a 21 percent gain from yesterday’s close.  
 “Chinese stocks have been huge underperformers for the
past 12 months and now show potential to outperform all global
equity indexes in the next six to 12 months,” the analysts
wrote in a report.  
 The Shanghai Composite has advanced 5.7 percent this week,
set for the biggest weekly gain since Dec. 4, on expectations
the government will relax property curbs and allow for more bank
lending to counter a slowdown in economic growth.  
 Over the next one to two years, the  Shanghai index  may
rally to between 3,900 and 4,400, the analysts said. These are
the 50 percent and 61.8 percent retracements of the decline from
the October 2007 high, according to the Fibonacci sequence.  
 Global Bellwether  
 Fibonacci analysis is based on the theory that prices rise
or fall by certain percentages after reaching a high or low. The
ratios are based on the sequence pioneered by 13th century
mathematician Leonardo Pisano Fibonacci and used in technical
analysis to determine highs and lows for prices and predict
direction.  
 Two consecutive weeks of closes below 2,275 to 2,300 for
the Shanghai Composite would suggest that the analysts’ thesis
is wrong, according to the report.  
 A rally in the Shanghai Composite suggests that global
stocks led by industrials and materials companies should “do
well” in the second half because China is “increasingly
important for perceptions of global economic activity,” the
analysts said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Ally Ma, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in Hong Kong, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the outlook for Chinese airline stocks. 
     Chinese airlines carried 21.8 million passengers in June, 23.2 percent more than a year earlier, the Civil Aviation Administration of China said on its website yesterday. Ma also discusses China's aerospace industry. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
