-- Chinese Banks See Risks in 23% of $1.1 Trillion Loans
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-23T18:50:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/china-banks-said-to-see-risks-in-23-of-1-1-trillion-public-project-loans.html

          
          
             Chinese banks may struggle to recoup
about 23 percent of the 7.7 trillion yuan ($1.1 trillion)
they’ve lent to finance local government infrastructure
projects, according to a person with knowledge of data collected
by the nation’s regulator.  
 About half of all loans need to be serviced by secondary
sources including guarantors because the ventures can’t generate
sufficient revenue, the person said, declining to be identified
because the information is confidential. The China Banking
Regulatory Commission has told banks to write off non-performing
project loans by the end of this year, the person said.  
 Commission Chairman  Liu Mingkang  said this week borrowing
by the so-called local government financing vehicles may
threaten the banking industry. The nation’s five-largest banks,
including  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd ., plan to raise as much
as $53.5 billion to replenish capital after the sector extended
a record $1.4 trillion in credit last year.  
 “In China now, it is the same as the people getting loans
in Phoenix here in the U.S. three years ago,” said Vikas Pershad, chief executive officer of Chicago-based Veda
Investments LLC. “People who want money get money, and then
they all lose track of it.”  
 Highways, Airports  
 Local governments set up the financing vehicles to fund
projects such as highways and airports due to limits on their
ability to directly borrow money. The central government this
year restricted borrowing on concern money isn’t being used for
viable projects.  
 “The issue is symptomatic of the way the stimulus package
was rolled out in 2008,” said Nicholas Consonery, Asia
specialist at the Eurasia Group. “It is difficult for local
governments to finance these projects. It is written under the
Chinese constitution that local governments cannot offer their
own debt.”  
 Only 27 percent of the loans to the financing vehicles can
be repaid in full by cash generated by the projects they funded,
the person said.  
 Calls to the banking regulator’s press office in Beijing
after business hours weren’t answered.  
 Fitch Weighs In  
   China  last month ordered local governments to ensure
repayment and to concentrate on completing projects already
under way. Financing units that fund only public projects and
rely on the fiscal income of local governments to repay debt
should stop spending, the State Council said June 13. Local
governments have also been barred from guaranteeing loans taken
by their financing vehicles.  
 To minimize losses, the banking regulator has ordered
lenders to create teams to discuss loan repayments with local
governments and protect the rights of creditors, the person
said.  
 The government has been grappling with how to rein in the
credit-fuelled stimulus before it leads to overheating,
according to a July 14 report by Fitch Ratings analyst Charlene Chu. Lending hasn’t slowed as much as official data suggests
because Chinese banks are shifting loans off balance sheets by
repackaging them into investment products that are sold to
investors, the report showed.  
 “The growing popularity of this activity is increasingly
distorting credit growth figures at an institutional and system
level,” Chu wrote. “Consequently, Chinese banks’ loan loss
reserves and capital are more exposed to credit losses than
current data suggests.”  
 Chairman Liu said in April that inspectors would visit
banks in the third quarter to check on loan reports that had to
be submitted by the end of June. Those reports showed the banks
had 7.7 trillion yuan of outstanding loans to the local
financing vehicles at the end of last month, the person said.  
 --Andreea Papuc. With assistance from Laura Keeley in  New York .
Editors: Joost Akkermans, Stephen Foxwell, Alec McCabe.  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Andreea Papuc at +852-2977-6641 or
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Liu Mingkang, chairman of the China Banking Regulatory Commission, speaks at the Boao Forum for Asia in Boao, China. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
