-- Cisneros Group Bids More Than $2 Billion for California Offices
-- Nichola Saminather
-- 2010-07-23T21:56:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/cisneros-group-bids-2-billion-in-california-s-sale-of-office-properties.html

          
          
             An investment group that includes
 Henry Cisneros ’s CityView real estate firm bid more than $2
billion for 11  California  office buildings that the state is
selling to raise cash.  
 CityView, based in Los Angeles, has joined with the U.S.
unit of Australian pension manager AE Capital Advisers for the
bid, according to Cisneros, a former U.S. Secretary of Housing
and Urban Development. The team, which includes other investors,
is a finalist for the almost  7.3 million square feet  (678,192
square meters) of properties, he said in an interview yesterday.  
 “The state had hundreds of inquiries and it’s down to a
few,” Cisneros said by telephone. Proceeds from a sale may be
used toward California’s budget deficit and a winning bidder
won’t be chosen until lawmakers and Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  agree on a budget deal, he said.  
 California , the most populous U.S. state, began its fiscal
year July 1 with no budget and an unresolved $19.1 billion
deficit. It had enough cash to pay its bills through August. The
state put the buildings -- which include offices in Los Angeles,
San Francisco, Oakland, Sacramento and Santa Rosa -- up for sale
in February in what is set to be the government’s biggest
commercial real estate deal in history.  
 Final Bidders  
 A review of final bids has been ongoing since early June,
Eric Lamoreaux, a spokesman for the Sacramento-based Department
of General Services, said in a telephone interview today. The
agency manages state-owned real estate.  
 “We don’t comment on any potential buyers,” he said.  
 AE Capital  invests in infrastructure and property globally
and advises Australian pension funds. The U.S. office in
Stamford, Connecticut, reviewed the California portfolio and has
worked with Cisneros, Kui Ng, AE Capital’s Sydney-based head of
property, said in an interview.  
 Ng said he couldn’t confirm if the firm is among the
bidders on the properties. Calls to AE Capital’s U.S. office
weren’t returned.  
 Cisneros, President Bill Clinton’s HUD secretary from 1993
to 1997, founded CityView 10 years ago. The company is focused
on urban real estate, housing and infrastructure and has
partnered with funds including the California Public Employees
Retirement System and police and firefighter pension plans in
Los Angeles, according to its website. It has invested in 45
U.S. communities.  
 CityView has a 3 percent to 5 percent interest in the
California property bid, Vice Chairman  Victor Miramontes  said
today in a phone interview.  
 Paying Debt  
 Proceeds from the state’s sale would be used to retire more
than $1 billion in bond debt and add at least $660 million to
the state’s general fund, the Department of General Services
said in a Feb. 26 statement.  
 “This sale will allow California to pay off debt, tap
equity and lock in some of the lowest rental rates seen in
years,” Ron Diedrich, the agency’s acting director, said in the
statement. “The short- and long-term financial gains will be
real to help shore up the state budget in the years to come.”  
 The properties include two office complexes with a combined
3.3 million square feet in Sacramento, the state capital; two
buildings in Los Angeles with almost 1.2 million square feet;
two buildings in the San Francisco Civic Center with 900,000
square feet; and an Oakland office tower with 700,000 square
feet, according to the agency’s website.  
 The offering went to bid with specific terms, including 20-
year initial leases and six five-year options for each property;
3 percent annual rent increases for inflation; and 10 percent
jumps in base rent every five years, according to information
provided by the Department of General Services last month.
Initial rents ranged from $23.40 a square foot per year in Santa
Rosa to $39.11 a square foot in  San Francisco .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dan Levy  in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net ;
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 Nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Henry Cisneros, former US Housing and Urban Development Secretary, delivers a speech in Mexico City. Photographer: Hector Guerrero/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
