-- Clorox Said to Get More Than 12 Bids for STP, Armor All Brands
-- Cristina Alesci
-- 2010-07-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/clorox-said-to-get-more-than-12-preliminary-bids-for-stp-armor-all-brands.html

          
          
             Clorox Co. , the maker of household-
cleaning products, received more than 12 preliminary bids for
its STP and Armor All auto-care brands, according to people with
knowledge of the matter.  
 Blackstone Group LP, Golden Gate Capital and Castle Harlan
Inc. are among the private-equity firms and consumer-products
companies interested in the  assets , said four people, who
declined to be identified because the sale is private. Clorox is
seeking about $750 million for the assets, the people said.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. is handling the sale for Clorox, and
first-round bids were due two weeks ago, said the people. Clorox
Chief Executive Officer  Don Knauss  said in May the bleach maker
would explore options for auto care because the business has
languished for years and isn’t a good fit.  
 Bidding is now in the second round and  management  is making
presentations to some potential buyers, the people said. The
process is expected to last several more weeks and wrap up in
late August or early September, said one of the people.  
 Spokespeople for JPMorgan, Blackstone, and Castle Harlan
declined to comment. Golden Gate, based in San Francisco, didn’t
immediately return calls. The private-equity firm owns retail
brands such as Eddie Bauer. Castle Harlan this week agreed to
sell its lawn and garden tool business, Ames True Temper Inc.,
to Griffon Corp. for $542 million in cash and debt.  
 Dan Staublin , a spokesman for Oakland, California-based
Clorox, declined to comment on the bidding process.  
 Auto-Care Sales  
 Proceeds from a sale could be used to help bolster
household and professional-cleaning businesses in Latin America
and Asia, areas where  Clorox  has said it wants to expand.  
 STP and Armor All have annual sales around $300 million and
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization
around $95 million, the people said.  
 Clorox is telling interested parties that the brands offer
slow and steady growth, and could benefit on their own instead
of tucked inside a consumer-products conglomerate, said people
who have looked at the assets.  
 Clorox rose 49 cents to $65.43 yesterday in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . The stock has gained 7.3 percent
this year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 Calesci2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        