-- Conrad Black, Free on Bail, Faces Fight to Stay Out of U.S. Federal Prison
-- Andrew M. Harris
-- 2010-07-23T16:48:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/conrad-black-free-on-bail-faces-fight-to-stay-out-of-federal-prison.html

          
          
             Conrad Black , set to be formally
freed on bail, may be sent back to prison if he can’t convince
an appeals court that a U.S. Supreme Court ruling requires that
his fraud and other convictions be set aside.  
 The former Hollinger International Inc. chairman arrived in
a Chicago court today to sign his release papers and hear bail
rules spelled out by U.S. District Judge  Amy J. St. Eve.  In
2007, she sentenced Black to 6 1/2 years. On July 21, after more
than two years at a Florida prison, he posted a $2 million bond
with the help of a Wall Street friend. He had no assets
available as bond collateral, according to his lawyer.  
 Beyond his criminal appeal, Black has to grapple with the
U.S. Internal Revenue Service, which wants almost $71 million in
unpaid taxes and penalties, and the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, which sued claiming he and former Hollinger
President  David Radler  stole $85 million from the company.  
 To stay free, Black, 65, must convince a federal appeals
court in Chicago that the Supreme Court ruling, which limited
prosecutors’ use of a law used to convict him, supports voiding
his convictions for fraud and obstruction of justice.  
 “Black’s strategy of sweeping all outstanding government
litigation under what is in reality a very limited victory
strikes me as fanciful,” said lawyer  A. Jeff Ifrah , co-author
of “Federal Sentencing for Business Crimes.”  
 Even if Black does reverse his convictions, it probably
won’t help him in his fights with the IRS and SEC, Ifrah said.
Radler settled his liability in the SEC case by agreeing in 2007
to pay $29 million.  
 ‘Lots of Luggage’  
 Black arrived yesterday at the Four Seasons Hotel in
Chicago with “lots of luggage,” after flying in from Miami
with his wife,  Barbara Amiel , according to CBC News. A telephone
operator at the hotel said she had no record of guests named
Black or Amiel.  
 The Supreme Court ruled June 24 that the so-called honest-
services  fraud law  invoked by prosecutors was intended for cases
involving bribery or kickbacks. Black was accused of neither. He
has argued that jurors were improperly instructed on the honest
services law as well as money-and-property fraud, then given the
option of convicting him for fraud under either theory, making
it impossible to know whether the guilty verdict was valid.  
 The obstruction charge, which resulted in its own 6 1/2-
year prison term, wasn’t dealt with by the Supreme Court.
Black’s five-year sentence for fraud ran concurrently with the
obstruction one.  
 ‘Strong Possibility’  
 “There’s a strong possibility he goes back to jail,” said
former Assistant U.S. Attorney  Jeffrey Cramer , who helped
prosecute Black and who is now managing director at the
investigative firm of Kroll Inc. in Chicago. “At the very
least, obstruction stands. The judge could send him back to
serve the rest of his sentence.”  
 St. Eve may consider Black’s request for permission to
travel to Toronto, where he has a home in the city’s Bridle Path
neighborhood. The judge told defense lawyers July 21 that she
wouldn’t allow him to leave the U.S. without seeing a financial
statement and an assessment from a federal agency on the risk of
letting him out of the country.  
 Black renounced his Canadian citizenship in 2001 to accept
a life peerage in the U.K. House of Lords.  
 Net Worth Unknown  
 Black hasn’t said where he will live if restricted to the
U.S. His fortune in 2003, when he still ran Hollinger, was
estimated by the Sunday Times Rich List at 136 million pounds
(then $222.5 million). Black’s current net worth isn’t known.  
 Joan Maida, an assistant to Black, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking an estimate of Black’s wealth after
deducting his payment of fines and other amounts related to his
Hollinger conduct.  
 Currently, Black has no equity in his former Palm Beach
house, and his Canadian assets are tied up by a court order,
 Miguel A. Estrada , an attorney for Black, told the judge at the
July 21 bail hearing.  
 The IRS said Black failed to pay taxes on his personal use
of Hollinger jets, corporate money he spent on papers by
President  Franklin D. Roosevelt  and his private secretary, and
Hollinger’s 2000 purchase of a $5.9 million New York apartment
for his use. Black wrote a biography of Roosevelt.  
 ‘Sloppy and Careless’  
 Black has asked the U.S. Tax Court to throw out its
assessment, which covers payments due for 1998 to 2003. He said
in a petition that the IRS relied on “sloppy and careless”
findings, from an investigation that led to his conviction, when
authorities compiled estimates of his income and unpaid taxes.  
 Black said he wasn’t required to file tax returns because
he wasn’t a U.S. resident, court records show.  
 The IRS suit against Black was filed in April in U.S. Tax
Court in Washington.  
 Black led Hollinger as its CEO from 1995 to 2003, and he
served as its chairman from November 2003 to January 2004. The
Chicago-based company is now known as the  Sun-Times Media Group
Inc.   
 A Canadian court froze Black’s assets in 2006 after his
former holding company Hollinger Inc. sued him for $700 million,
the Chicago Sun-Times reported.  
 Black and three associates were found guilty of stealing
$6.1 million from Hollinger International as they engineered
sales of its assets.  
 If Black succeeds in getting all his convictions
overturned, prosecutors have the option of retrying him.  Randall Samborn , a spokesman for Chicago U.S. Attorney  Patrick Fitzgerald , whose office prosecuted Black, declined to say if
that is what the government would do.  
 “That hasn’t happened yet,” Samborn said.  
 The trial court case is U.S. v. Black, 05-cr-00727, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago). The
appellate case is U.S. v. Black, 07-4080, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Seventh Circuit (Chicago).  
 -- With assistance from  Frederic Tomesco  in Montreal and  Leslie Patton  in Chicago. Editors:  Patrick Oster ,  Andrew Dunn   
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Linda Sandler  in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Conrad Black, former chief executive officer of Hollinger International, leaves the Dirksen Federal Building in Chicago. Photographer: Tim Boyle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
