-- Copper Heads for Best Week in Five Months as Inventories Shrink
-- Anna Stablum
-- 2010-07-23T12:23:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/copper-heads-for-best-week-in-five-months-as-falling-stocks-signal-demand.html

          
          
             Copper headed for the best week in
five months in New York and London as shrinking inventories
signaled an improved outlook for demand.  
 Stockpiles  tracked by the London Metal Exchange slid for a
22nd week in a row this week, the longest streak since 2004,
data compiled by Bloomberg shows. Bookings to remove  metal  from
warehouses increased 15 percent, the most in two months.
Inventories also contracted in China, the world’s biggest user
of the metal.  
 “Supply dynamics look quite tight over the next couple of
years, so we’d expect to see a growing deficit eating
progressively into current stock levels,”  Nic Brown , an analyst
at Natixis Commodity Markets Ltd. in London, said by phone.  
 Futures for September delivery gained 0.6 cent, or 0.2
percent, to $3.1705 a pound at 8:06 a.m. on the Comex in New
York. The most-active contract is up 8.2 percent this week, the
most since the week ended Feb. 19. Copper for delivery in three
months lost 0.1 percent to $7,000 a metric ton on the LME.  
 “After the recent bounce, there may yet be some setbacks,
but we would see any corrections as good buying opportunities,”
Brown said.  
 Prices climbed this week as global equity markets rallied.
The U.S. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has added 2.7 percent, and
the  Shanghai Composite Index  is up 6.1 percent, the most since
the week ended Dec. 4. Chinese shares gained on speculation the
government will refrain from taking more steps to curb bank
lending and property prices.  
 Chinese Expansion  
 Copper’s advance this week “seems to have been based on
the recovery in Chinese equities,” Brown said. Investors were
looking beyond recent policy tightening on the view that the
government would be more tolerant of “future Chinese growth,”
he said.  
 LME copper has dropped 5.1 percent this year, partly on
concern about steps taken by China’s government to restrain the
country’s surging economy. Prices also retreated on speculation
that Europe’s sovereign debt-crisis might stall the region’s
economic rebound. European regulators will publish results of
“stress tests” on banks today.  
 “I’m not sure the stress tests are too important for base
metals, except to the extent that they might hit equity markets
or result in another bout of risk aversion,” said Brown.  
 Europe probably will account for about 20 percent of global
copper usage this year, according to Barclays Capital.  
 Dollar Rebounds  
 Prices pared gains today as the dollar rebounded. The U.S.
Dollar Index, a six-currency gauge of the greenback’s strength,
was recently little changed after dropping as much as 0.5
percent. A weaker dollar makes metals priced in the currency
cheaper in terms of other monies.  
 LME-tracked copper  inventories  rose today after 25 drops in
a row, climbing 0.8 percent to 419,650 tons. The streak of
declines was the longest in more than a year. Stockpiles are
still down 16 percent this year and headed for the first annual
drop since 2004.  
 Copper stockpiles in Shanghai declined to 113,922 tons this
week, the lowest level in almost six months, according to a
weekly statement from the city’s futures exchange today.  
 Bookings  to remove copper from LME warehouses fell for the
first day in four, sliding 2.5 percent to 37,575 tons. Yesterday
they reached the highest level since June 2, 2009.  
 Investor Survey  
 Copper may rise next week on speculation that demand will
maintain its pace as output from mines drops at leading
producers, a survey showed. Nine of 15 analysts, investors and
traders surveyed by Bloomberg, or 60 percent, said the metal
will gain.  
 Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc ., the world’s largest
publicly traded copper miner, said this week second-quarter
mined copper output slid 13 percent from a year earlier. Also
this week, BHP Billiton Ltd., the third-biggest producer, said
output of the metal from mines dropped 5 percent from the prior
year in the three months through June.  
 Tin for three-month delivery on the LME gained 0.5 percent
to $18,670 a ton after reaching $18,801, the highest intraday
price since April 27. Aluminum fell 0.7 percent to $2,030 a ton
and zinc dropped 1.4 percent to $1,921 a ton. Lead advanced 0.4
percent to $1,948 a ton and nickel climbed 1 percent to $20,450
a ton.  
 To contact the reporter on the story:
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        