-- Corporate Bond Risk Pares Decline After Seven Banks Fail EU Stress Tests
-- Abigail Moses
-- 2010-07-23T17:25:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/corporate-bond-risk-declines-in-europe-credit-default-swap-market-shows.html

          
          
             The cost of insuring against losses
on European corporate bonds pared a decline after seven of the
region’s banks failed regulators’ stress tests.  
 The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to 25 banks and
insurers fell 1 basis points to 133 at 6 p.m., according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. The gauge earlier dropped to 127.5, the
lowest level since May 12, after a report showed the U.K.
economy grew almost twice as much as economists forecast in the
second quarter.  
 The bullish sentiment was tempered by concern the European
Union bank tests on 91 banks were too lenient and don’t confirm
lenders can withstand a crisis. The tests took into account
potential losses only on government bonds they trade, rather
than those they hold to maturity, according to the Committee of
European Banking Supervisors.  
 “The long awaited bank stress tests do not seem to have
been that stressful,”  Gary Jenkins , a credit strategist at
Evolution Securities Ltd. in London, wrote in a note after the
results were published “The last thing the authorities would’ve
wanted was set a series of assumptions that led to a broad
failure across the euro area as this could only do more damage
to the already frail markets.”  
 ‘Sovereign Haircuts’  
 Regulators tested portfolios of sovereign five-year bonds,
assuming a loss of 23.1 percent on Greek debt, 12.3 percent on
Spanish bonds, 14 percent on Portuguese bonds and 4.7 percent on
German state debt, according to CEBS.  
 The tests also assessed the impact of a four-step credit
rating downgrade on securitized debt products, a 20 percent
slump in European equities in both 2010 and 2011 and 50 other
macroeconomic parameters, including a drop in the EU’s gross
domestic product over two years, CEBS said.  
 “One of the key criteria we were looking for was whether
sovereign haircuts would be applied to all books,”  Charles Mount , a financial strategist at broker-dealer Knight Libertas
LLC in Greenwich, Connecticut, wrote in a note to clients. “On
balance, more stringent haircuts is a positive, but the focus
only on trading books of sovereign portfolio is a significant
negative.”  
 Credit-default swaps on Spanish savings bank Caja Madrid
dropped 32 basis points to 333 and Bank of Ireland declined 23
to 324 after passing the stress tests, according to data
provider CMA.  
 Contracts on BNP Paribas SA fell 4 basis points to 104,
Societe Generale SA dropped 1 basis point to 118, Credit
Agricole SA was 3 basis points lower at 128 and Natixis declined
1 basis point to 166, according to Markit Group Ltd.  
 U.K. Tighter  
 Swaps on U.K. government debt dropped 2 basis points to 67,
the lowest since Nov. 18, after growth in services,
manufacturing and construction fueled Britain’s fastest
expansion for four years, boosting investor confidence the
global economic recovery is accelerating.  
 U.K. gross domestic product rose 1.1 percent in the three
months through June after increasing 0.3 percent in the previous
quarter, the Office for National Statistics said in London
today. Economists forecast a 0.6 percent gain, according to the
median of 32 predictions in a Bloomberg news survey.  
 “Data is better than expected and the earnings season
continues to beat forecasts,” said  Harpreet Parhar , a credit
strategist at Credit Agricole SA in London. “That probably does
allay ‘double dip’ concerns.”  
 The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
linked to 50 companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings
decreased 6.5 basis points to 506.5 and the Markit iTraxx Europe
Index of 125 companies with investment-grade ratings fell 2.25
basis points to 112, JPMorgan prices show.  
 A basis point on a credit-default swap contract protecting
10 million euros ($12.8 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A decline signals
improvement in perceptions of credit quality.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        