-- Daniel Schorr, Veteran Broadcast Reporter, NPR News Analyst, Is Dead At 93
-- Kathryn Harris
-- 2010-07-23T16:59:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/daniel-schorr-veteran-broadcast-reporter-npr-news-analyst-is-dead-at-93.html

          
          
             Daniel Schorr , the relentless radio
and television reporter whose career spanned more than 60 years,
from the dawn of the Cold War through the war in Iraq, has died.
He was 93.  
 The veteran newsman, who served as a senior analyst for
National Public Radio since 1985, died after a short illness,
NPR said today in a statement citing his family.  
 Schorr was the last full-time journalist from a group known
as the “Murrow Boys” -- a team of brilliant reporters
assembled by the fabled CBS newsman  Edward R. Murrow  in the
1940s and 1950s. He covered Senator  Joseph McCarthy ’s hearings
on alleged communist infiltration of the U.S. Army on his first
day at the network in 1953, and two decades later, ranked high
on the so-called enemies list compiled by President  Richard Nixon ’s staff for his coverage of the Watergate scandal.  
 He combined untiring hustle with terse prose and a forceful
on-air delivery. He lobbied hard for airtime and sometimes
antagonized his colleagues as much as the subjects of his
reporting.  
 His CBS career unraveled in 1976 after he secretly gave a
Congressional report to the Village Voice newspaper for
publication in defiance of a House of Representatives ban.
Briefly, he permitted a CBS colleague to fall under suspicion
for the leak.  
 Schorr later said that he mishandled leaking the document,
but he was unapologetic in his conviction that the House
shouldn’t suppress its own committee report on illicit Central
Intelligence Agency activities.  
 Quitting CBS  
 Summoned before a House ethics committee, he narrowly
escaped a contempt citation. Public opinion swung in Schorr’s
favor after he spoke eloquently in defense of a free press
during a televised hearing. CBS executives reconsidered their
plan to fire him, but Schorr resigned anyway, convinced that his
CBS career was over.  
 Three years later,  Ted Turner  recruited Schorr as the first
employee of Cable News Network to lend credibility to his
upstart broadcasting venture.  
 Schorr was born in the Bronx, New York, on Aug. 31, 1916,
two years after his parents arrived in the U.S. from Belarus.  
 Schorr’s father died when he was six. His younger brother,
Alvin, was stricken with scarlet fever and polio. Schorr worked
as an after-school paperboy to supplement his widowed mother’s
income.  
 In his 2001 memoir, “Staying Tuned: A Life in
Journalism,” Schorr said he had suppressed memories of an
unhappy childhood and “how I felt fat, unattractive, Jewish, an
outsider struggling for a way in.”  
 Reporting Tool  
 Schorr attributed his emotional detachment to his early
hardships, though he concluded that his dispassion was useful in
reporting. He sold his first story at 12 when he witnessed a
woman’s death in a fall from the roof of his apartment building.
Coolly, he summoned the police, interviewed them about the
victim and telephoned the Bronx Home News to collect $5 for his
news tip.  
 At DeWitt Clinton High School, Schorr settled on journalism
as his career. He edited the school newspaper and the senior
yearbook before his graduation in 1933.  
 He then enrolled in City  College of New York , which was
tuition-free and “a hotbed of radicalism,” as he put it.
Although Schorr covered campus demonstrations for the college
paper, he preferred to take paying jobs off campus. Schorr
completed his college education in 1939 by attending night
school.  
 During college, Schorr wrote first for the Jewish Daily
Bulletin and then for its parent organization, the Jewish
Telegraphic Agency, where he stayed until 1941. Shortly before
Pearl Harbor, he took a job as U.S. editor of a Dutch news
agency, rewriting cables from overseas.  
 War Duty  
 Drafted in 1943, Schorr spent the duration of World War II
in Texas after the Army ignored his requests to be a war
correspondent.  
 At the war’s conclusion, Schorr returned to the Dutch news
agency and seized an offer in 1946 to work in the Netherlands.
He mastered the language and became a freelance contributor to
the Christian Science Monitor, the New York Times and the
American Broadcasting Co. before he joined CBS in 1953.  
 Schorr worked in the network’s Washington bureau until
1955, when he returned to Europe to reopen a Moscow office for
CBS. He then served in Warsaw and Bonn. Returning to Washington
at the age of 50, he soon met and married Lisbeth Bamberger, a
health expert who worked in an anti-poverty program.  
 In 1970, Schorr wrote “Don’t Get Sick in America,” the
first of several non-fiction  books . A popular speaker, Schorr
sometimes upset the CBS brass with his candor on the lecture
circuit. But Schorr survived until 1976 by dint of his reporting
skills.  
 ‘Like You’  
 Bill Small, his Washington bureau chief, told Schorr in
1972: “‘You know, I think you are one prize son of a bitch. And
I wish I had a dozen sons of bitches like you,’” Schorr later
recounted, adding, “That about encapsulated my relations with
CBS.”  
 His tenure at CNN was shorter, though less tumultuous.
Schorr joined the fledging network in 1980, but he was pushed
out in 1985. He said at the time that new managers wouldn’t
renew the deal he had struck with Turner to decline assignments
that he regarded as a professional breach. He elaborated on the
problems in his memoir, saying he objected to being paired as a
“co-commentator” with former Texas Governor  John Connally .  
 Schorr was soon invited to expand on the commentaries he
had provided occasionally for  National Public Radio . Among other
duties, he agreed to join Scott Simon, the host of “Weekend
Edition Saturday,” for a nine-minute discussion reviewing the
week’s news.  
 Even as an octogenarian, Schorr hustled for NPR. President
 Bill Clinton  changed the time of his Saturday radio address
after Schorr advised him of a conflict with “Weekend Edition.”  
 Survivors include his wife, son Jonathan, daughter Lisa and
brother Alvin L. Schorr, former dean of the Graduate School of
Social Work at New York University.  
 For Related News and Information:
For more obituaries: NI OBIT <GO>
For more media news: NI MED <GO>
For more radio industry news: NI RADIO <GO>  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Daniel Schorr talks about his book "Staying Tuned: A Life in Journalism" at the NBC studios in Washington, DC. Photographer: Alex Wong/Newsmakers  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
