-- De Beers CEO Penny Quits as Biggest Diamond Miner Posts Record Sales Jump
-- Ron Derby
-- 2010-07-23T09:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/de-beers-says-diamond-sales-advanced-84-to-2-6-billion-during-first-half.html

          
          
             De Beers , the world’s largest
diamond producer, said Chief Executive Officer  Gareth Penny  will
step down later this year after getting the company “back on
its feet” with its biggest jump in half-year sales.  
 Penny, 48, has headed De Beers for the past five years and
will leave after leading the company through a global recession
that slashed demand for diamonds, and the company’s “subsequent
recovery,” De Beers said in an earnings statement today.  
 “I feel it’s the right time” to leave, he said by phone
from London. “We’ve come out of a difficult period.” Penny
hasn’t decided what he plans to do and will continue as CEO
until the end of September, before working part-time until the
end of the year.  
 Penny is a “pretty impressive character” and his
resignation “will overshadow the results,” said  Peter Davey ,
head of mining research at  Ambrian Capital Plc . “Why let him
step down if you haven’t got a replacement? It’s not an ideal
situation,” he said by phone from London.  
 Chief Financial Officer  Stuart Brown  and Chief Commercial
Officer  Bruce Cleaver  will act as joint-CEOs while De Beers
finds a permanent successor, it said.  
 Earlier, De Beers, which produces about 40 percent of the
world’s diamonds, said first-half sales of unpolished and uncut
stones climbed 84 percent to $2.6 billion, boosted by improved
demand from Asia.  
 ‘Measured Optimism’  
 Output more than doubled to 15.4 million carats as the
company reopened mines in  Botswana  and Namibia that were
shuttered as gem consumption slumped amid the recession. Sales
were helped by improved retail demand, particularly in India and
China, and also in the U.S., the largest market, De Beers said.  
 “It’s a good result and in line with expectations,”
Ambrian’s Davey said.  
 While rough diamond prices have risen in the past year,
returning to levels last seen in June 2008, the global economic
climate remains fragile, especially in the U.S., Japan and
Europe, De Beers said. “We look to the remainder of 2010 with
caution and measured optimism,” it said.  
 U.S. retail sales are growing at the fastest pace in four
years, driven by an 8 percent jump at luxury chains this year,
the International Council of Shopping Centers said on July 7.
The U.S. accounts for half of the world’s diamond demand.  
 With demand recovering, De Beers expects to produce between
30 million carats and 32 million carats this year, rising to
about 40 million carats next year, Penny said.  
 De Beers, which traces its history back to 1888, is 45
percent-owned by  Anglo American Plc  and 40 percent by the
Oppenheimer family. Botswana controls the remaining 15 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        