-- Obama Law May Cost Children as Insurers Drop Coverage
-- Alex Nussbaum
-- 2010-07-23T20:34:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/health-care-law-may-cost-children-as-unitedhealth-ends-kid-only-coverage.html

          
          
             UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  and insurers
in  Florida  and  Oklahoma  stopped offering children-only health
coverage because of the potential added costs of sick youngsters
under the new U.S. health-care law, state officials said today.  
 UnitedHealth’s  Golden Rule  subsidiary won’t sell new
policies that cover only children, foreclosing an option for
parents seeking cheaper care, Kevin McCarty, Florida’s insurance
commissioner, said at a meeting of the  National Association of
Insurance Commissioners  in  Washington , D.C. Tyler Mason, a
UnitedHealth spokesman, disputed the statement in a telephone
interview, saying the company still issues such coverage.  
 The law championed by President  Barack Obama  bans insurers
from denying coverage to children based on their health. That
makes it more difficult for health plans to predict costs
because families can wait until a child is sick to buy coverage,
according to  Kim Holland , Oklahoma’s commissioner. She and  Sandy Praeger ,  Kansas ’ commissioner, said insurers in their states
have dropped child-only plans as well, or discussed the idea.  
 “A parent that’s losing coverage and may only be able to
afford to cover their child, they’ll have limited if any
options,” Holland said at a news conference. Among Oklahoma’s
500,000 uninsured are “some percentage of children that might
have had access to coverage and that’s going to be difficult.”  
 Already Covered  
 The commissioners said it’s unclear how many children
nationwide are covered under the policies. The insurance
companies are continuing to serve youngsters already in such
plans, Holland said.  
 While families may put children on state-subsidized health
plans or the Medicaid program for the poor, those plans have
income limits, Holland said. New high-risk insurance pools set
up by the health overhaul only cover people denied because of
pre-existing conditions and without insurance for six months or
more, she said.  
 UnitedHealth, based in  Minnetonka ,  Minnesota , is the
largest insurer by sales. The company hasn’t left the children-
only market, Mason said.  
 “Where we have been writing these policies, we are still
writing them,” he said.  
 The insurer’s shares declined 8 cents, or less than 1
percent, to $30.92 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite  trading . UnitedHealth has gained 14 percent in the
past 12 months.  
 6.2 Percent  
 A 2009 study by  EHealth Inc. (EHTH) , the online insurance broker,
found 6.2 percent of individual policies were written for
children younger than age 18, said Sande Drew, a spokeswoman for
the  Mountain View , California-based company, in an e-mail. That
represented about 20,000 policies, Drew said.  
 The Obama administration is ‘disappointed that a small
number of insurance companies are taking this unwarranted and
unnecessary step,” said  Jessica Santillo , a spokeswoman for the
U.S. Health and Human Services Department, in an e-mail. “We
are working with the  insurance industry  to help ensure that
quality coverage is available nationwide for children with pre-
existing conditions.”  
 The commissioners’ association is helping the Obama
administration draft rules to implement the health overhaul
signed in March. The group has approached the federal health
department seeking a way to address the problem, Holland said.  
 The issue may be a harbinger of 2014, when the health law
requires insurers to cover adults regardless of medical
condition, said Praeger, Kansas’s commissioner. While the
legislation requires all Americans to find coverage, insurers
have said its penalties are too low to force people to comply.  
 Shrinking Base  
 That may drive the cost of insurance up as companies
struggle to cover rising medical costs on a shrinking customer
base, Florida’s McCarty said at the news conference.  
 “The impact it will have on the cost of insurance for
everyone, you can’t underestimate that,” he said. “It’s going
to add a significant amount to the cost.”  
 One option may be to let people buy insurance only during
one or more enrollment periods each year, said Holland. Those
who missed the window would be unable to jump onto a policy
until the next period, encouraging customers to keep continuous
coverage, she said. Holland and Praeger said they’ve discussed
the idea with state insurers as well as the administration.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Children's Health Care  
                       
                         
                           Joe Raedle/Getty Images 
                         
                         Pediatrician, Dr. Gwen Wurm, does a checkup on Christina Brownlee, 5, at the University of Miami Pediatric clinic. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Pediatrician, Dr. Gwen Wurm, does a checkup on Christina Brownlee, 5, at the University of Miami Pediatric clinic. Photographer: Joe Raedle/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
