-- Medtronic Spinal Fusion Device Faces U.S. FDA Review
-- David Olmos
-- 2010-07-23T20:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/medtronic-spinal-fusion-device-faces-u-s-fda-review-update1-.html

          
          
             Medtronic Inc .’s experimental spinal
fusion device Amplify didn’t work as well after five years as it
did in two-year tests previously reported by the company,
according to U.S. regulators weighing its approval for sale.  
 After two years, surgeries were successful in 61 percent of
Amplify patients, compared with 56 percent for those who had
standard procedures using a bone graft from the hip, the Food
and Drug Administration said today in a  report . Amplify resulted
in successful operations in 44 percent of patients after five
years, compared with 35 percent for standard care, the agency
said. A higher number of cancer cases were seen in the Amplify
group, FDA reviewers said in the report.  
 Medtronic, the world’s largest maker of heart-devices, has
been trying to reinvigorate growth in its spinal products
business, which  accounted  for 22 percent of the Minneapolis-
based company’s $15.8 billion in revenue for its 2010 fiscal
year ended in April. Spine division sales grew 3 percent to $3.5
billion last year. If approved, Amplify may add as much as $175
million, or 8 cents a share, to earnings in its first year,
Leerink Swann analyst  Rick Wise  said in a research report today.  
 “We now put the likelihood of a positive panel
recommendation at just 40 percent,”  Michael Weinstein , a New
York-based analyst at JPMorgan Securities, wrote in a note to
investors today. “Cancer risk could trip up approval.”  
 Two-Year Data  
 After two years, 3.8 percent of Amplify patients had
cancer, compared with 0.9 percent on standard surgery. The
malignancy rate for Amplify increased to 5 percent after five
years, compared with 1.8 percent for traditional grafts,
according to the FDA report.  
 Medtronic  shares  fell 19 cents to $36.58 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has
increased 6.4 percent in the past 12 months.  
 Outside advisers to the FDA will meet July 27 to evaluate
Amplify. The agency generally follows the recommendations of its
advisory panels, though it isn’t required to do so.  
 “At the panel, we will present preclinical and clinical
study data, along with expert opinion, that no plausible
biological mechanism for cancer induction or promotion has been
identified,” Medtronic spokeswoman  Marybeth Thorsgaard  said in
a July 21 telephone interview.  
 ‘Borderline’ Significance  
 The five-year rates don’t show a statistically significant
increase in cancer rates between the two study groups, Weinstein
wrote in the note. “However, the documents do note that this
numerical difference comes close to reaching significance with
the FDA describing it as ‘borderline,’” he wrote.  
 The advisers will focus on the clinical and statistical
significance of cancer rates, especially pancreatic cancers, in
current studies and determine whether additional evaluations are
needed, the FDA said in its report.  
 The panel also will look at how the overall surgical
success rates for the two study groups were determined and at a
greater number of serious back and leg pain side effects
reported by patients in the Amplify group, according to the
documents. A successful surgery was defined as an operation in
which the vertebrae or bones were joined together and
stabilized.  
 About 660,000 back surgeries were performed in the U.S. in
2009, according to  Millenium Research Group , a medical market
research company in Toronto. In spinal fusion surgery, doctors
use bone grafts in an area of the spine to lock together, or
“fuse,” the area between two or more vertebrae to treat back
pain cause by spinal disease and injuries.  
 Standard Surgery  
 A standard  spinal-fusion procedure  requires two surgeries,
often done at the same time, Martin Yahiro, Medtronic’s senior
director of clinical and regulatory affairs, said in a July 21
telephone interview. First, doctors operate to take a section of
hip bone for use as a graft for the second procedure that
repairs the spine, he said.  
 Amplify combines the company’s bone growth protein, known
as rhBMP-2, with a ceramic device implanted in the spine for
posterior spinal fusion through the patient’s lower back. The
bone protein, marketed as Infuse, won U.S. approval in 2002 for
anterior fusion surgeries, a lower-back operation performed
through an incision in the front of the patient. It is also
cleared for dental procedures and to repair lower leg fractures.  
 Infuse  generates as much as $800 million in annual revenue
for Medtronic, with sales unchanged the past two years,
Weinstein said.  
 The Amplify product uses a higher dose of the bone mineral
protein than the Infuse device, the FDA staff report noted.  
 Medtronic Study  
 In the two-year study of 463 patients that Medtronic used
to seek approval of Amplify, those treated with the device had
shorter surgical times, less blood loss, and needed fewer repeat
operations compared with those who had the standard procedure,
according to results published in July 2009 in the  Journal of
Bone and Joint Surgery.   
 If the FDA decides to approve Amplify, Weinstein said it is
likely to require a large study after the product goes onto the
market to assess cancer risk.  
 “The FDA is saying that the historical data on Infuse
safety is of limited significance because you’ve upped the
dosing by three times,” Weinstein said in a telephone
interview. “So even if there’s not a significant cancer risk
with Infuse, you’ve tripled the dosage and how do you get the
FDA panel comfortable with that?”  
 Amplify’s advantage “seems to boil down to saving 20
minutes in the operating room,” said  Richard Deyo , a spine
expert at  Oregon Health & Science University i n Portland, in a
July 21 telephone interview. Complications from the hip bone
grafts “should not be trivialized but it’s not clear to me that
there is a big problem there.” Deyo was not involved in
Medtronic’s study.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net ;
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Medtronic Inc Spinal System  
                       
                         
                           Lance Murphey/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Medtronic Inc., engineer measures the mechanical properties of a spinal system in a Medtronic Inc. biomechanical testing laboratory. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Medtronic Inc., engineer measures the mechanical properties of a spinal system in a Medtronic Inc. biomechanical testing laboratory. Photographer: Lance Murphey/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
