-- Televisa, NII to Get Airwave Ruling in Three Weeks, Mexican Regulator Says
-- Crayton Harrison
-- 2010-07-23T19:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/televisa-nii-to-get-airwave-ruling-in-three-weeks-mexican-regulator-says.html

          
          
             Grupo Televisa SA and NII Holdings
Inc., seeking to challenge America Movil SAB in Mexico, will
learn within three weeks whether their bid for mobile-phone
airwaves will pass muster with regulators.  
 The government’s airwave auction appears to have met its
goals of boosting competition and providing capacity to the
wireless industry,  Mony de Swaan , president of Mexico’s  Federal
Telecommunications Commission , said yesterday in an interview.
The agency must review the results carefully, in part because
Televisa and NII would get airwaves at a discount, he said.  
 NII, which operates the Nextel brand in Latin America,
needs the airwaves to cement its partnership with  Televisa , the
world’s largest Spanish-language broadcaster. Televisa plans to
spend $1.44 billion to buy one-third of NII’s Mexican unit if
the wireless company gets the spectrum.  
 “The ultimate end of these tenders was to foment
competition: Were those conditions satisfied? I think so,” de
Swaan said by phone from Mexico City. “But I frankly reserve my
position until I discuss it with my colleagues and we arrive at
a collegial conclusion.”  
 The agency must deliberate carefully, because it will
probably have to defend its decision in court if companies
challenge the ruling, he said.  
 Televisa gained 27 centavos to 47.88 pesos at 2 p.m. New
York time in Mexico City trading. Reston, Virginia-based NII
gained 40 cents, or 1 percent, to $39.58 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading.  
 Chosen Leader  
 De Swaan, 40, was named by President  Felipe Calderon  as one
of the telecommunications agency’s five commissioners in June,
replacing  Hector Osuna . The commissioners, who vote among
themselves to elect a president, chose de Swaan earlier this
month.  
 The auction of 90 megahertz of airwaves in the 1.7
gigahertz band drew four participants, including the NII-
Televisa partnership.  America Movil , Latin America’s largest
wireless carrier, spent 3.79 billion pesos ($298 million) to
place the top bids on 20 megahertz of spectrum across the
country and an additional 10 megahertz in three regions.  
 Telefonica SA, Mexico’s second-biggest wireless carrier
after America Movil, spent 1.27 billion pesos to get 10
megahertz of spectrum in six regions. Grupo Iusacell SA, the
third-biggest wireless operator, didn’t place any high bids.  
 NII , Mexico’s smallest wireless carrier, and Televisa
offered 180 million pesos for 30 megahertz of spectrum
nationwide, the same amount of airwaves America Movil and
Telefonica spent a combined 5.1 billion pesos to acquire. NII
and Mexico City-based Televisa were able to win the airwaves
with a much lower offer because they were the only qualified
bidders for that piece of spectrum under rules that capped the
total airwaves each participant could own.  
 Not Frightened  
 The difference in prices “doesn’t necessarily frighten
me,” de Swaan said. Including annual payments required by
Congress, NII and Televisa will pay 18.3 billion pesos over 20
years for the airwaves it’s acquiring. America Movil and
Telefonica will pay a total of 23.2 billion pesos in the same
two-decade span.  
 “Sometimes this kind of difference is desirable,” de
Swaan said. “That’s simply because there are different network
investments, because there are different economies of scale and
because part of the intent of these tenders was precisely to
promote the entry of a new participant in the industry.”  
 NII, which has 3.6 percent of Mexico’s mobile-phone
subscribers, said this week it plans to spend 18.9 billion pesos
over six years to upgrade and operate a new mobile-phone network
capable of high-speed Internet downloads, offering consumers
technology that is now available only from America Movil and
 Iusacell .  
 Mobile-Phone Market  
 America Movil had 71 percent of Mexican mobile-phone
customers at the end of March, followed by Telefonica’s 21
percent and Iusacell’s 4.4 percent.  
 Televisa said it intends to package the video, Internet and
phone services offered by the satellite and cable companies it
controls with NII’s wireless plans to attract Mexican consumers.
If the companies are awarded their airwaves, they would begin
offering plans together by the end of this year,  Gustavo Cantu ,
a vice president of NII’s Mexico unit, said this week in an
interview.  
 Each commissioner of the telecommunications agency must
decide whether to void the auction results or approve them, and
each will have to offer a rationale for his vote, de Swaan said.
The agency won’t retroactively change the auction rules, since
that would “send an awful message” to investors in Mexican
companies, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Crayton Harrison  in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        