-- Emerging Market Bonds Safer Than Developed-Nations', Ashmore's Booth Says
-- Jason Webb
-- 2010-07-23T15:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/emerging-market-bonds-are-among-safest-investments-ashmore-s-booth-says.html

          
          
             Emerging-market bonds will
outperform developed-nation debt over the next three to four
years as developing countries allow their currencies to
appreciate, said  Jerome Booth  of Ashmore Investment Management
Ltd.  
 Fear of losing exports has been among the reasons China and
other countries haven’t allowed their currencies to appreciate,
said Booth, who helps oversee $33 billion in emerging-market
assets as Ashmore’s head of research. Eventually a country such
as India, with a relatively closed economy and building
inflationary pressure, or a competitive exporter, such as South
Korea, may lead a wave of revaluations, he said.  
 Booth recommends emerging-market dollar bonds in the near
term, and local-currency debt longer term, as those nations are
less indebted than Western countries, he said. Eighty percent of
the return on locally denominated debt is likely to come from
currency gains over the next three to four years, he said.  
 “Local-currency debt, at the short end in particular, I
would say is arguably the safest asset class in the world, safer
than gold, safer than Treasuries,” Booth said. “Therefore I
want Korea won and I want rupee in the portfolio early. But once
they start moving then I want Malaysia, I want Indonesia, I want
lots of other countries in Asia, and I want obviously Brazil,
Colombia, Peru.”  
 Dollar-denominated emerging-market bonds have returned  8.7
percent  so far this year, while domestic government debt has
returned 5 percent, according to an  index  compiled by JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  
 Yuan, Rupee  
 The People’s Bank of China last month indicated it would
abandon the 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar adopted during the
global crisis to shield exporters. While the yuan has gained 0.7
percent against the dollar so far in 2010, other major emerging
currencies including the Brazilian real, Russian ruble, Indian
rupee and South Korean won have declined.  
 Emerging-market economies have less than half as much
public debt as a proportion of output as developed nations,
according to the  International Monetary Fund.   
 Investors may have to wait for a year or longer for big
moves in emerging-market currencies, Booth said. India’s
wholesale-price index jumped 10.55 percent in June after
climbing 11.23 percent in April, the most in 19 months, a report
showed earlier this month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        