-- Emerging-Market Stocks Rise to 11-Week High on Earnings, Economic Outlook
-- Jason Webb
-- 2010-07-23T21:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/emerging-market-stocks-rise-to-11-week-high-on-earnings-economic-outlook.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks rose for a
fourth day, driving the benchmark index to its highest level in
11 weeks, as better-than-estimated earnings boosted confidence
in the global economic recovery.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  climbed 0.8 percent to
981.42 at 5:50 p.m. in New York, its highest close since May 4.
The Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.4 percent, increasing its
advance this week to 6.1 percent, the most since December 2009.
Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index rose for a fifth day, capping its
biggest weekly gain since May 2009.  
 “You’re seeing a slew of report cards from these big
companies where  more than 80 percent  have beaten estimates,
that’s where the investor enthusiasm is coming from,” said
 Pankaj Kumar , who oversees about $560 million as chief
investment officer of Kurnia Insurans Malaysia Bhd. Still,
“some economic indicators are not that exciting, which will
linger on investors’ minds,” he said.  
 Cyrela Brazil Realty SA Empreendimentos e Participacoes ,
Brazil’s biggest homebuilder by revenue, climbed 2.4 percent
after reporting that its exclusive stake of second-quarter
preliminary contracted sales increased 77 percent.  Usinas
Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA , Brazil’s second-largest
steelmaker, climbed 1.4 percent as metals prices increased after
companies from Ford Motor Co. to Verizon Communications Inc.
reported earnings that beat analysts’ estimates.  
 Possible Downgrade  
 Hungarian stocks and the forint fell after Moody’s
Investors Service and Standard and Poor’s placed the
government’s credit rating on review for possible downgrade
following the collapse of loan negotiations with the
International Monetary Fund and European Union.  
 Hungary’s BUX Index declined for a second week, dropping
1.5 percent. The forint extended its depreciation to as much as
2.3 percent versus the dollar after S&P said it was also
reviewing Hungary for a possible downgrade, taking its debt
rating to junk.  
 OAO Norilsk Nickel, Russia’s biggest mining company, jumped
as much as 3.5 percent after three people familiar with the
situation said the government was considering buying a stake.
 OAO Gazprom  fell 0.4 percent as the price of crude oil slipped
0.4 percent to $79 a barrel.  
 Technology companies gained as Microsoft Corp.’s fourth-
quarter earnings beat analysts’ estimates. Shares of  Acer Inc. ,
a supplier of notebook computers, advanced 2.9 percent in
Taipei. Asustek Computer Inc., the maker of the Eee PC low-cost
netbook, gained 2.1 percent.  
 Investors poured money into equity funds focused on India
and China in the week ended July 21 as concerns economic growth
will slow spurred withdrawals from developed-market stocks, EPFR
Global said today. India funds received a net $187 million, the
most in 51 weeks, while China money managers took in $138
million, EPFR said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        