-- Enbridge Credit Risk Falls as U.S. Pipeline Boosts Cashflow: Canada Credit
-- Gene Laverty
-- 2010-07-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/enbridge-credit-risk-falls-as-u-s-pipeline-boosts-cashflow-canada-credit.html

          
          
             Credit-default swaps on Enbridge
Inc. and TransCanada Pipeline Ltd., Canada’s biggest pipeline
companies, were among the country’s largest decliners over the
last month, as new pipeline links to the U.S. boost cash flow.  
 The cost to protect Enbridge’s bonds from default fell 15.9
basis points over the last 30 days, the fourth-biggest drop
among the 30 Canadian companies tracked by Bloomberg. Swaps on
TransCanada Pipeline fell 13.3 basis points. Credit-default
swaps decline as investor confidence improves.  
 Both companies recently completed pipeline systems that
will carry crude oil and  tar-like bitumen  to refineries in the
U.S. from northeastern Alberta. The resulting revenue streams
are expected to bolster the company’s creditworthiness,
according to  Matthew Kolodzie , a credit analyst at RBC Capital
Markets in Toronto.  
 “It appears to be a turning point,” said Kolodzie. “They
are both in growth mode and the type of assets they are building
are contracted so you get a stable source of cash flow from
counterparties.”  
 TransCanada’s  Keystone  pipeline, part of which is a
converted natural-gas conduit, has a capacity of 435,000 barrels
a day. The pipeline will be operating at full capacity to the
U.S. by yearend, said  Terry Cunha , a TransCanada spokesman.  
 Clipper, the Enbridge line that runs 1,609 kilometers
(1,000 miles) to Superior, Wisconsin, from Hardisty, Alberta,
has a capacity of 800,000 barrels per day. The Calgary-based
company is in the process of filling the line to start
deliveries by the end of the third quarter.  
 Rate Increases  
 Credit swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying security if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point, 0.01
percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the  Bank of Canada  said
yesterday its economic forecast includes gradual interest-rate
increases to control inflation in an  economic recovery  hampered
by slower foreign demand.  
 Europe’s debt crisis will reduce Canada’s output by 0.1
percent this year and 0.3 percent in 2011, and spending will be
sluggish in the U.S., Canada’s biggest trade partner, the
central bank said in a Monetary Policy Report.  
 Toronto-Dominion Bank  sold $2 billion of five-year covered
bonds yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This
year Canadian lenders have sold a record C$12.5 billion ($12.1
billion) in covered bonds, according to Bloomberg data. Covered
bonds are debt backed by mortgages or government securities.  
 Energy Rally  
 The extra yield investors demand to own Canada company
bonds instead of government debt ended yesterday at 144 basis
points, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Canadian
Corporate Index.  
 Enbridge and TransCanada are among companies in the oil and
gas industry benefiting from a rebound in fuel prices and a
rally in BP Plc stocks and bonds after the U.K. company capped
an offshore oil leak in the Gulf of Mexico. Bonds in the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch global energy index returned 1.8 percent
this month, adding to a 4.4 percent gain in the first half of
the year.  
 The Canadian pipeline operators are rated A- with stable
outlooks by Standard & Poor’s.  
 “Both companies have completed projects and had some
favorable regulatory rulings,” said Nicole Martin, an analyst
with Standard & Poor’s in Toronto. “We would characterize that
as business as usual, thus the stable outlook.”  
 Bond Returns  
 Enbridge’s 10-year bond issued in November has a total
return of 5.1 percent this year, compared with 8.7 percent for
the company’s stock, according to Bloomberg data. TransCanada’s
five-year corporate bond issued in February of 2009 has returned
2.4 percent, compared with 3.8 percent for its shares.  
 Canada is the largest supplier of crude oil to the U.S. and
the second-largest global exporter of natural gas. Enbridge,
TransCanada and other companies run more than 100,000 kilometers
of pipelines in Canada and the U.S. that gather and distribute
the fuels, according to the  Canadian Energy Pipeline
Association .  
 Enbridge’s credit-default swaps rose 33 basis points over
the past three months, making it the fifth-worst performer in
Canada. TransCanada was ninth worst, gaining 29 basis points.  
 The companies have been facing challenges from
environmental groups including the  Environmental Protection
Agency , which raised concerns that the pipelines could pollute
air and water supplies.  
 The EPA said earlier this month that the draft
environmental impact study for TransCanada’s proposed Keystone
XL extension from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico is inadequate and
should be revised.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Irene Shen  in Calgary at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net .
 Gene Laverty  in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        