-- Ericsson Misses Estimates as Global Network Sales Decline
-- Diana ben-Aaron
-- 2010-07-23T13:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/ericsson-second-quarter-net-income-rises-to-258-million-misses-estimates.html

          
          
             Ericsson AB , the world’s largest
maker of wireless networks, missed analysts’ estimates for
second-quarter profit as phone companies spent less on
telecommunications infrastructure.  
 Ericsson fell as much as 8.1 percent. Net income rose to
1.88 billion kronor ($260 million) from 831 million kronor a
year earlier, the Stockholm-based company said in a  statement 
today. Analysts had predicted profit of 3.12 billion kronor, the
average of 17  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue dropped 8
percent to 48 billion kronor, missing the 50.8 billion-kronor
average estimate of 30 analysts.  
 “Most other regions are still fairly weak,” said  Haakan Wranne , a Stockholm-based analyst at Swedbank Markets who rates
Ericsson “buy.” “Europe is not performing that well, most
emerging markets are in low capex mode. Acquisitions and
contracts in the U.S. are what save the report.”  
 Ericsson’s equipment business suffered as operators held
back on spending and merged networks to cut costs. The unit’s
sales declined 12 percent, with revenue in India, China and
southeast Asia falling the most. Sales in India declined 63
percent as the government imposed new regulations on
telecommunications gear.  
 Ericsson fell  as much as 7.15 kronor to 81.7 kronor, the
biggest drop since October. The stock was 7.6 percent lower at
82.10 kronor as of 3:50 p.m. in Stockholm.  
 Ericsson’s woes are similar to rivals supplying network
equipment to telecommunications operators. Nokia Siemens
Networks yesterday  reported  an operating loss of 179 million
euros on a 5 percent sales drop.  
 Indian Market  
 “The conditions we saw in the second half of 2009 with
mixed operator investment behavior prevailed also in the first
half of this year,” Ericsson Chief Executive Officer  Hans Vestberg  said in the statement. Component shortages and supply
bottlenecks also cut sales in networks and services, it said.  
 Tight supplies of radio technology components worsened in
the quarter, holding up the delivery of 3 billion kronor to 4
billion kronor in orders, Vestberg said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television. Suppliers who cut production after the
economic crisis in 2008 weren’t prepared for the speed of the
recovery, he said.  
 Component Supply  
 The company expects the component shortages to ease
gradually in the second half, he said.  
 In India, the government is stepping up scrutiny of
imported switches and routers as phone operators plan to roll
out high-speed services later this year. Phone carriers must
obtain government security clearance before importing equipment,
the Department of Telecommunications said this spring.  
 “There has been a security clearance process for all
vendors and we got approval from only one vendor to ship at the
end of the quarter, and after the quarter were cleared on a
couple of others so we can start shipping,” Vestberg told
Bloomberg Television.  
 The arrangements are a short-term solution and the
situation for the longer term isn’t clear yet, Vestberg said.
Indian operators also pulled back on spending while waiting for
the outcome of 3G license auctions, Ericsson said.  
 Nokia Siemens cited the problems of security clearances in
India and component shortages for its performance and said it
sees both difficulties continuing this quarter.  
 Nortel Purchase  
 China and Northeast Asia declined by more than a third on
timing of 3G spending in China. Ericsson won contracts to expand
3G networks both last year and this year as the Chinese
government invested to expand broadband to more provinces to
stimulate the economy.  
 Ericsson added wireless assets from Nortel Networks Corp.
in the quarter, completing the  acquisition  of the Canadian
carrier’s North American GSM business and a stake in a  joint
venture  with Korea’s LG Electronics Inc. It also won managed
services contracts with  Telefonica SA  in Brazil and  Mobilicity 
in Canada.  
 North American revenue more than doubled with the
integration of the Nortel assets and accounted for more than one
quarter of Ericsson’s network business in the period.  
 The services business had flat sales as increased network
management contracts balanced lower network rollouts. Ericsson
has the world’s largest wireless services business, including a
seven-year contract to manage Sprint Nextel Corp.’s networks.  
 “We have one currency exposure that is large, the U.S.
dollar to the Swedish krona,” Vestberg said. “Everything else
we can mitigate.” The effect was “very slight” in this
quarter, compared with last year when the dollar-krona rate had
“huge volatility,” he said.  
 Social Networking  
 Vestberg said the company aims to grow faster than the
market. He’s eliminating 6,500 positions to cut costs and has
reorganized sales into 10 geographical areas.  
 Nokia Siemens this week agreed to buy Motorola Inc.’s
wireless network equipment business, cementing its position as
the second-largest vendor worldwide ahead of Huawei Technologies
Co. and setting the stage for competition with Ericsson for
contracts from Verizon Wireless, Sprint Nextel Corp. and others.  
 Ericsson is counting on demand for data, driven by social
networking and richer information via mobile devices, in the
long term to overshadow operators’ efforts to cut costs by
sharing network towers and other measures.  
 Ericsson and rivals are upgrading older networks to cope
with data torrents to smartphones and netbooks, and are vying
for so-called fourth-generation networks that could provide
mobile broadband at fiber-optic speeds.  
 Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB , the mobile-phone
venture with Sony Corp., reported second-quarter net income of
12 million euros, its second consecutive profit, as it shipped
new touch-screen handsets using Google Inc.’s Android software.
ST-Ericsson, the semiconductor business with STMicroelectronics
NV,  reported  a net loss of $139 million.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ericsson AB chief executive officer Hans Vestberg pauses during the company's second-quarter press conference. Photographer: Casper Hedberg/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
