-- EU Bank Stress Tests Fail to Reassure Investors Wary of Capital Criteria
-- Craig Trudell
-- 2010-07-23T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/eu-bank-stress-tests-fail-to-reassure-investors-wary-of-capital-criteria.html

          
          
             European regulators  found that seven
banks need to raise a combined 3.5 billion euros ($4.5 billion)
of capital, underwhelming analysts who said the stress tests may
not have been strict enough.  
 “The amount of capital needed is much lower than the
market expected,” said  Mike Lenhoff , chief strategist at
London-based Brewin Dolphin Securities Ltd., which oversees
$33 billion. “It seems quite trivial considering the concerns
about losses from the sovereign crisis.”  
 Germany’s  Hypo Real Estate Holding AG ,  Agricultural Bank of
Greece SA  and five Spanish savings banks didn’t have adequate
reserves to maintain a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6
percent in the event of a recession and sovereign-debt crisis,
lenders and regulators said yesterday. The banks that failed the
stress tests are in “close contact” with national authorities
over how they will raise capital, said the Committee of European
Banking Supervisors, which ran the assessments of 91 lenders.  
 European governments are using their first coordinated
stress tests to reassure investors about the health of financial
institutions after the debt crisis pummeled the bonds of Greece,
Spain and Portugal. Rising budget deficits in those countries
raised concern that they won’t be able to pay their debts.  
 “This is not reassuring at all,” said  Komal Sri-Kumar ,
who helps manage $118 billion as chief global strategist at TCW
Group Inc. in Los Angeles. “These tests were set in such a way
that most of them would pass. That doesn’t say to me that the
banking system is stable.”  
 ‘Not Very Rigorous’  
 Before the results were published yesterday, analysts at
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  estimated that lenders would need to
raise 38 billion euros and Barclays Capital said they would
require as much as 85 billion euros. Tests carried out in the
U.S. last year found that 10 lenders, including Bank of  America
Corp.  and Citigroup Inc., needed $74.6 billion.  
 “I don’t think the market is so stupid as to think that
they were so wrong,” said  Jason Brady , a managing director at
Thornburg Investment Management in Santa Fe, New Mexico, which
oversees about $57 billion. “The right explanation here is that
the testing was not very rigorous.”  
 European banks have already raised 220 billion euros in the
past 18 months, Credit Suisse Group AG analysts said in a report
this week. With that amount already raised, it was likely that
most European banks would pass the tests, the analysts said.  
 Trading Books  
 Analysts and investors said the European tests may not have
been strict enough because they ignored the majority of banks’
holdings of sovereign debt. The evaluations took into account
potential losses only on government bonds the banks trade,
rather than those they are holding until maturity, CEBS said.  
 Lenders hold about 90 percent of their Greek government
bonds in their banking book and 10 percent in their trading
book, according to a survey by Morgan Stanley analysts led by
 Huw van Steenis . They have to write down the value of bonds in
their banking book only if there is serious doubt about a
state’s ability to repay in full or make interest payments.  
 “The long-awaited stress tests do not seem to have been
that stressful,”  Gary Jenkins , an analyst at Evolution
Securities Ltd. in London, wrote in a note to clients. “The
majority of these bonds are held on the banking books.”  
 The European Central Bank said banks that failed the stress
tests should seek to raise capital from investors before turning
to national governments. Spain and Greece both moved to support
their lenders that require capital.  
 Greek Rights Offering  
 “The ECB welcomes the commitment made by national
authorities with regard to back-stop facilities to recapitalize
the institutions that may have fallen below the minimum
threshold of 6 percent,” the ECB said in a statement.  
 Agricultural Bank of Greece, the only one of the nation’s
lenders to flunk, said it’s  preparing  a rights offering after
posting a shortfall of 242.6 million euros. The government,
which owns 77 percent of the bank, said it will take part in the
share sale.  
 Hypo Real Estate, the German commercial-property lender
rescued by the government during the financial crisis, had a
capital shortfall of about 1.25 billion euros. An “immediate
need for capital would arise only if the hypothetical stress
scenario actually did materialize,” the Bundesbank and
financial regulator BaFin said.  
 Spanish savings banks CajaSur; a group led by Caixa
Catalunya; a group led by Caixa Sabadell; Caja Duero-Caja
Espana; and Banca Civica all, posting a combined capital
shortfall of 2 billion euros.  
 Stocks Little Changed  
 Bank of Spain Governor  Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez  said
the central bank will set a deadline for the banks to raise
capital privately before turning to public funds. Civica said
yesterday it would raise 450 million euros by selling a
convertible bond to U.S. leveraged buyout firm J.C. Flowers &
Co.  
 The results of the U.S tests helped the  Standard & Poor’s
Financials Index  jump 36 percent in the following seven months.
The 54-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index rose 0.1 percent yesterday.  
 “The seven that failed the tests were already banks that
had failed or were in the watch list, and that says to me that
these tests are not telling us anything we don’t already know,”
Sri-Kumar said. “I don’t think the markets will buy it. We’ll
have to wait until the Europe markets open on Monday.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew MacAskill  in London at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bank of Spain Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez said the central bank will set a deadline for the banks to raise capital privately before turning to public funds. Photographer: Adeel Halim/ Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Constance Hunter, managing director and chief economist at Aladdin Capital Management LLP, and Marcus Mabry, an editor at the New York Times, talk about European Union-wide stress tests results released today.
     They speak with Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- David Forrester, a currency economist at Barclays Capital in Singapore, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the outlook for the euro. 
     The combination of growing confidence in Europe’s economy and mounting evidence of a slowdown in the U.S. is driving euro bears into hiding. After tracking the euro’s slide from about $1.45 at the beginning of 2010, the median forecast of currency strategists has stayed within two cents of $1.20 since the start of June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Forrester, speaking from Singapore, also discusses the results of stress tests on European banks released last week. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
