-- EU Stress Tests Only Consider Bank Trading Book Bond Losses
-- Andrew MacAskill
-- 2010-07-23T15:40:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/eu-bank-stress-tests-apply-only-to-traded-bond-portfolios-document-shows.html

          
          
             European Union stress tests are set
to ignore the majority of banks’ holdings of sovereign debt
after regulators decided against testing securities held in
their banking books.  
 “The haircuts are applied to the trading book portfolios
only, as no default assumption was considered,” the European
Central Bank said in a confidential document July 22 entitled
“EU Stress Test Exercise: Key Messages on Methodological
Issues.”  
 Lenders hold about 90 percent of their Greek government
bonds in their banking book and 10 percent in their trading
book, according to a survey by Morgan Stanley analysts led by
 Huw van Steenis . They only have to write down the value of bonds
in their banking book if there is serious doubt about a state’s
ability to repay its debt in full or make interest payments.  
 “The tests need to be across the board -- including the
banking book,” said  Andrea Williams , who manages about 1.1
billion pounds ($1.69 billion), including BNP Paribas SA and
Credit Suisse Group AG shares, at Royal London Asset Management
in London. “It does undermine the whole credibility of the
tests.”  
 The stress tests will assume a loss of 23.1 percent on
Greek debt, 14 percent on Portuguese bonds, 12.3 percent on
Spanish debt, and 4.7 percent on German state debt, according to
the document obtained by Bloomberg News. U.K. government bonds
will be subject to a 10 percent haircut, and France 5.9 percent.  
 ‘Interest Rate Shocks’  
 The tests assume the weighted average yield on euro-area
five-year government bonds will rise to 4.6 percent in 2011 from
2.7 percent at the end of 2009. The tests also include an
increase in the yield on five-year Greek government bonds to as
much as 13.9 percent after “interest rate shocks,” the
document shows.  
 “The haircuts on government debt in the trading book
increase according to the introduction of sovereign risk, which
is modeled as an increase in government bond spreads in line
with market developments since the beginning of May 2010,”
according to the document.  
 The decision “allows banks to basically underestimate
their exposure to distressed peripheral debt,”  Win Thin , a
senior currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman in New
York, wrote in a note to clients today. “By leaving out stress
tests on the banking book, then a true picture of bank balance
sheets will clearly not be obtained.”  
 Accounting Rules  
 Under accounting rules, banks have to adjust the value of
sovereign bonds held in the trading book according to changes in
market prices. For government debt held in the banking book,
lenders must write down the value only if there is serious doubt
about a state’s ability to repay its debt in full or make
interest payments.  
 The bank stress test scenarios also include securitized
debt products being downgraded four levels by credit ratings
companies, a 20 percent fall in the value of European equities
in both 2010 and 2011 and tests in 50 other macroeconomic
parameters, according to the  Committee of European Banking
Supervisors , which is overseeing the tests.  
 European Union Regulators examined the effect on banks’
balance sheets of an increase in short-term interest rates of
125 basis points. Banks’ overall liquidity wasn’t tested because
it might clash with studies being carried out by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision while it decides on the details
of new capital requirement rules.  
 Sovereign-Bond Holdings  
 Regulators are examining the strength of banks to determine
if they can survive potential losses on sovereign-bond holdings.
They are counting on the tests to reassure investors about the
health of financial institutions from Germany’s WestLB AG and
Bayerische Landesbank to Spanish savings banks as the debt
crisis pummels the bonds of Greece, Spain and Portugal.  
 The 54-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and  Financial Services
Index  traded up 0.18 percent at 4:30 p.m. London time. The euro
weakened against the dollar, sliding 0.46 percent to $1.2847.  
 CEBS is scheduled to release the criteria and the results
from 5 p.m. London time today. CEBS deputy secretary general
Patrick Amis declined to comment on the document, referring
questions to the ECB. The ECB declined to comment.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Meera Louis  in Brussels at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     European Central Bank president Jean-Claude Trichet. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Guillermo de la Dehesa Romero, chairman of the Centre for Economic Policy Research, talks about the prospects for Spanish banks passing the European stress tests that are due to be published today.
     De la Dehesa speaks in Madrid with Manus Cranny on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Analytics Inc., discusses the outlook for extending the Bush tax cuts, which are set to expire at the end of this year.
     Zandi, talking with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "In Business," also discusses the stress tests of European banks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
