-- European Stocks Advance as Mining Stocks Rally
-- Sarah Jones
-- 2010-07-23T15:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/european-stock-index-futures-are-little-changed-ericsson-shares-may-fall.html

          
          
             European stocks  rallied for a fourth
day as the fastest growth rate for the U.K. in four years and an
unexpected surge in German business confidence overshadowed
concern about the results of bank stress tests.  
 Adidas AG, the world’s second-largest sporting-goods maker,
and Akzo Nobel NV paced advancing shares as the companies
reported earnings that topped estimates. Banco Santander SA
gained 1.3 percent before the results of the stress tests on
European lenders are released. Dana Petroleum surged 13 percent
after Korea National Oil Corp. raised its offer for the U.K. oil
and gas explorer.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rose 0.6 percent to 255.97 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in London, extending this week’s advance to
3.2 percent. Stocks briefly erased gains earlier after a draft
ECB document showed that the 91 banks being stress-tested by
regulators were only examined on European sovereign debt losses
for the bonds they trade, rather than those they hold to
maturity.  
 “The hope from these stress tests is that we get the clear
and transparent information that the market has been looking
for,” said  Azad Zangana , chief European economist at Schroder
Investment Management Ltd. in London. “Ideally all banks should
pass but of course we know there are some problematic banks out
there.”  
 The benchmark Stoxx 600 has fallen 6.1 percent from this
year’s high on April 15 amid concern that the recovery may stall
as indebted European governments slash spending. Even so, data
today showed the U.K.  economy grew  1.1 percent in the second
quarter, almost twice as much as economists forecast. In
Germany, the Ifo institute’s business climate index showed the
country’s business confidence surged to a three-year high.  
 Banks Fluctuate  
 National benchmark indexes rose in 10 of the 18 western
European markets today. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 lost
Less than 0.1 percent, while Germany’s DAX advanced 0.4 percent.
France’s CAC 40 gained 0.2 percent.  
 Santander, Spain’s largest bank, rose 1.3 percent to 10.12
euros. Credit Agricole, France’s biggest bank by branches,
retreated 1.1 percent to 9.36 euros, as a  gauge  of banks shares
closed up 0.2 percent. Portugal’s Banco Espirito Santo SA
tumbled 2.5 percent to 3.47 euros.  
 Results from the stress tests will be published starting at
6 p.m. Brussels time today. Regulators are scrutinizing banks to
assess if they have enough capital, defined as a Tier 1 ratio of
at least 6 percent, to withstand a recession and sovereign-debt
crisis, according to a document from the Committee of European
Banking Supervisors. Lenders that fail the trials will be made
to raise additional capital.  
 Little Consensus  
 “The results of the European bank stress tests have been
widely anticipated,” London-based analysts  Jernej Omahen  and
 Peter Oppenheimer  at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. wrote in a report
to clients. “There appears to be very little consensus about
the outcome, how much will be raised and what the impact will
be.”  
 Adidas  rose 2.2 percent to 42.56 euros after the sporting-
goods maker reported a surge in second-quarter net income to 126
million euros from 9 million euros a year earlier on the soccer
World Cup. Earnings beat the 70.9 million-euro average estimate
of four analysts. Revenue rose 19 percent to 2.9 billion euros.  
 Akzo Nobel , the world’s biggest maker of paints, gained 2.6
percent to 45.44 euros after the company reported second-quarter
profit of 273 million euros, driven by a recovery in demand for
industrial coatings and growth in emerging markets. The compares
to 155 million euros a year earlier and the 190 million-euro
average analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  
 Dana Petroleum surged 13 percent to 1,706 pence, a two-year
high. Korea National Oil raised its offer for the U.K. company
to 1.7 billion pounds ($2.6 billion), or 1,800 pence a share.  
 Most-Watched  
 Societe Television Francaise 1 jumped 6.4 percent to 12.45
euros after the owner of France’s most-watched TV channel posted
a 51 percent jump in first-half profit to 74 million euros and
raised its full-year revenue growth target to 7 percent from 5
percent.  
 Ericsson AB  dropped 7.1 percent to 82.55 euros after the
world’s largest maker of wireless phone networks reported net
income of 1.88 billion kronor ($260 million). That missed
analysts’ average estimate of 3.12 billion kronor as phone
companies spent less on telecommunications infrastructure.  
 Revenue dropped 8 percent to 48 billion kronor, also
missing the 50.8 billion-kronor average analyst  estimate .
Ericsson shares dropped 5.7 percent to 83.75 kronor.  
 STMicroelectronics NV retreated 3.6 percent to 6.50 euros
as Europe’s largest semiconductor maker posted second-quarter
profit, excluding items, of 18 cents a share, in line with the
average analyst estimate. The company posted net income of $356
million compared to a net loss of $318 million a year earlier.  
 Raised Forecast  
 Pernod-Ricard SA  fell 2.3 percent to 62.61 euros as sales
excluding revenue from acquisitions advanced “close to 3
percent” in the fiscal fourth quarter. That missed the average
prediction of a 4.2 percent gain in a Bloomberg survey of four
analysts. The shares declined even as the maker of Absolut vodka
raised its full-year profit forecast for the second time this
year.  
 ARM Holdings Plc  jumped 12 percent to 353.3 pence after the
company signed a licensing pact with Microsoft. Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc raised its recommendation for the  shares  to
“buy” from “hold,” saying the company’s deal with Microsoft
could be a “game changer.”  
 Alstom SA  rallied 3.7 percent to 38.55 euros after the
world’s third-largest power-equipment maker won two contracts
worth 450 million euros ($582.5 million) to design, build, and
maintain two combined-cycle gas units for an Indian company.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       German business confidence unexpectedly surged  
                       
                         
                           Guenter Schiffmann/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Soccer balls sit on display at an Adidas AG outlet store. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Soccer balls sit on display at an Adidas AG outlet store. Photographer: Guenter Schiffmann/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- David Kotok, chairman and chief investment officer of Cumberland Advisors in Sarasota, Florida, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about European bank stress tests, and his investment strategy for the region's stocks.
     European stocks climbed for a third day yesterday as unexpected growth in the region’s manufacturing and services industries and rising U.K. retail sales eased concern that the economic recovery may be faltering. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
