-- Euro Climbs as German Sentiment Outweighs Stress-Test Worries
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-07-23T06:43:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/euro-loses-gains-versus-yen-dollar-before-europe-bank-stress-test-results.html

          
          
             The euro fell against the dollar on
concern stress-test results today will reveal loan losses at
European banks, reducing demand for the region’s assets.  
 Europe’s currency dropped against 10 of its 16 major
counterparts on concern the findings will force the region’s
banks to raise funds to bolster their balance sheets. The yen
pared losses on speculation Japan’s exporters bought the
currency. The British pound strengthened before a report today
that is forecast to show the nation’s economic growth doubled in
the second quarter.  
 “The stress tests won’t deliver a perfect score,” said
 Daisuke Karakama , a market economist in Tokyo at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd., Japan’s second-largest publicly traded
lender. “I’m betting the results will revive negative sentiment
about the euro.”  
 The euro fell to $1.2868 as of 7:36 a.m. in London from
$1.2893 in New York yesterday, set for a 0.5 percent weekly loss.
It traded at 111.99 yen from 112.10. The yen was at 87.05 per
dollar from 86.95, after earlier falling as low as 87.24. The
pound rose to $1.5290 from $1.5259, and appreciated to 84.27
pence per euro from 84.49 pence.  
 European regulators are scrutinizing banks to assess if
they have enough funds, defined as a Tier 1 capital ratio of at
least 6 percent, to withstand a recession and sovereign debt
crisis, according to a document from the  Committee of European
Banking Supervisors . Lenders that fail will be made to raise
additional capital. The results will be published by CEBS and
national regulators from 6 p.m. Brussels time today.  
 Bank Breakdowns  
 Banks may give breakdowns of their sovereign debt holdings.
Regulators have asked them to publish a list of each lender’s
gross and net exposure to central and local governments in 30
countries in the region, including Greece, Spain, Ireland, Italy
and Portugal, according to a July 15 confidential draft template
by CEBS that was obtained by Bloomberg News.  
 Several Spanish savings banks that have participated in
mergers and received money from Spain’s bank rescue fund may
fail stress tests, El Pais reported today, citing unidentified
people in financial markets.  
 Europe’s shared currency has declined 8.3 percent this year,
the biggest loss among its developed-world counterparts,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
has gained 3.3 percent, and the yen has advanced 12 percent.  
 Japan Exporters  
 The yen trimmed this week’s drop against the dollar on
speculation Japanese exporters purchased the currency.  
 The nation’s large manufacturers expect the currency to
average 90.16 against the dollar in the six months to March 2011,
according to Bank of Japan’s Tankan survey released July 1.  
 “There’s talk that exporters are buying the yen,” said
 Masato Mori , a senior manager at NTT SmartTrade Inc., a unit of
Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp. “In Tokyo time, the market
is sensitive to capital flows from Japanese firms.”  
 The pound headed for its first weekly advance against the
euro region’s single currency in four.  
 Gross domestic product rose 0.6 percent in the three months
through June after increasing 0.3 percent the previous quarter,
according to a Bloomberg news survey. The data, the first for
the quarter from a Group of Seven nation, will be released by
the Office for National Statistics at 9:30 a.m. in London.  
 The pound has fallen 3 percent against its global peers
this year, according to the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indices.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Deutsche Bundesbank president Axel Weber. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Ray Attrill, global research director at Forecast Ltd. in Sydney, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the European Union's bank stress tests and his forecast for the euro.
     The euro headed for a weekly decline against the dollar on speculation stress-test results today will reveal loan losses at European banks, reducing demand for the region’s assets. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
