-- European Stocks Post Weekly Advance as Earnings Top Forecasts; SSL Surges
-- Adam Haigh
-- 2010-07-23T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/european-stocks-post-weekly-advance-as-earnings-top-forecasts-ssl-surges.html

          
          
             European stocks  advanced as earnings
reports from Fiat SpA to Apple Inc. reassured investors that the
global economic recovery is intact amid signs the region is
weathering the sovereign debt crisis.  
 Fiat rallied as the carmaker reported its first profit in
three quarters. Rio Tinto Group led a gauge of basic-resource
stocks to the best performance among 19  industry groups  in the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index as Europe’s manufacturing and services
industries unexpectedly grew. SSL International Plc soared 33
percent after Reckitt Benckiser Plc agreed to buy the maker of
Durex condoms for 2.54 billion pounds ($3.9 billion).  
 The  Stoxx 600  climbed 3.2 percent to 255.97 this past week.
The gauge plunged 15 from the this year’s high on April 15
through the lowest level reached on May 25 amid concern that
governments’ attempts to trim their budget deficits will curb
economic growth. The measure has since rallied 10 percent.  
 “The season has certainly got off to a good start,” said
 Piers Hillier , who manages $12 billion as the chief investment
officer of Liverpool Victoria Asset management in London.
“Perhaps unsurprisingly given the macro backdrop, companies
have been a little bit more cautious with outlook statements.”  
 In U.S., about 85 percent of companies in the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index  that have reported results since July 12 beat
analysts’ per-share earnings forecasts, Bloomberg data show. In
Europe, 66 percent of Stoxx 600 companies have topped estimates,
including Fiat and Accor SA.  
 U.S. Economy  
 The U.S. economy will avoid its second recession in three
years, helping global stock markets recover losses in the second
half of 2010, according to RCM Asia Pacific Ltd.’s Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Konyn . This contrasts with Barclays
Wealth, which reduced its estimate for this year’s gain in
European and U.S. stocks because the chance of a slowdown in
economic growth has increased. Barclays Wealth manages $231
billion in client assets.  
 Rio Tinto, the world’s third largest mining company,
rallied 11 percent. BHP Billiton, the biggest, advanced 8.5
percent. Copper rose every day this week as shrinking
inventories signaled an improved outlook for demand.  
 A  composite index  based on a survey of euro-area services
and manufacturing purchasing managers increased to 56.7 in July
from 56 last month, Markit Economics said July 22. Economists
had projected a drop to 55.5, according to a Bloomberg survey. A
reading above 50 indicates expansion.  
 U.K. Growth  
 The  U.K. economy  grew at the fastest pace in four years in
the second quarter as rebounding services, manufacturing and
construction ignited the recovery, the Office for National
Statistics said yesterday. In the U.S., sales of previously
owned homes fell less than forecast last month, according to the
National Association of Realtors.  
 Meanwhile, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told
the Senate Banking Committee that Fed officials “recognize that
the economic outlook remains unusually uncertain” while
signaling they need to see signs of further weakness before
pushing the bounds of monetary policy.  
 Fiat  rallied 6.9 percent. Second-quarter net income was 90
million euros ($116 million), compared with a 168 million-euro
loss a year earlier. Earnings before interest, taxes and one-
time gains or losses more than doubled to 651 million euros,
beating the 359 million-euro average estimate of analysts
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Apple posted a 78 percent surge in third-quarter profit as
customers began flocking to the new iPad tablet computer and
latest version of the iPhone.  
 SSL Surges  
 SSL soared 33 percent to 1,177 pence. Reckitt’s offer is
worth 1,171 pence a share.  
 International Power Plc  jumped 14 percent. GDF Suez SA
started talks to gain control of the London-based company as
France’s second-largest utility bids to expand power generation
in the Middle East and Asia.  
 Tomkins rallied 33 percent. The Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board and Onex Corp. said July 19 they are
considering a 2.9 billion-pound bid for Tomkins to add
businesses spanning car parts and bath tubs.  
 Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc slumped 19 percent, the
biggest decline in the Stoxx 600. Full-year profit will be
“around the lower end” of analysts’ estimates following U.K.
government spending cuts, the company said July 20.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        