-- Euro-Area `Family' Can't Eject Members, Finance Ministry's Kampeter Says
-- Sara Eisen
-- 2010-07-23T13:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/euro-area-family-can-t-eject-members-finance-ministry-s-kampeter-says.html

          
          
             Euro-area states can’t be thrown out
of the “family,” said German Deputy Finance Minister  Steffen Kampeter , rowing back from the government’s earlier stance that
ejection should be possible to deter against excessive deficits.  
 Europe is much more than a “technical assembly,” Kampeter
said in a Bloomberg Television interview in New York yesterday.
“The biggest misperception is to understand Europe just as an
economic project -- it’s a political project, like the United
States.”  
 Countries that are committed to the common political ideal
of Europe shouldn’t be expelled because “you can’t throw
anybody out of your family,” he said. Rather, European Union
President  Herman Van Rompuy  is heading a group that will tighten
the rules protecting the euro, with the first elements of the
revamped accord expected to be operational in the fall, he said.  
 Chancellor  Angela Merkel  has called for the ouster of
overspending members of the 16-member currency area as a last
resort. Yet the means of enforcing budget discipline are
limited, and the proposal was lambasted by some fellow euro-
region states. The idea is a “political provocation” and won’t
win the majority needed to be adopted, Italian Foreign Minister
 Franco Frattini  told the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung in June.  
 Faced with the prospect of a Greek default, euro-region
ministers agreed to a 110 billion-euro ($142 billion)  rescue 
package in May, with Germany shouldering more than 25 percent of
the euro-countries’ share. Merkel’s government went on to back
loan guarantees of as much as 148 billion euros the same month
to backstop the euro.  
 ‘Our Greek Friends’  
 “If you’re benefiting most, you have to invest something
in this stability,” Kampeter said at Bloomberg headquarters,
 citing exports  to euro members as the biggest economic advantage
for Germany. “That sometimes can mean we have to help our Greek
friends to come back to a fiscal consolidation path and growth
path again.”  
 The euro has rallied 7.5 percent from a four-year low last
month. Germany, France and Spain are meanwhile among the euro-
area governments that are reducing budget deficits to stem the
debt crisis emanating from Greece, even as President  Barack Obama  calls for more focus on economic growth.  
 Those efforts are reflected in the financial markets,
Kampeter said, with the euro’s recovery suggesting that the
currency’s worst crisis in its 11-year history is over.  
 “Fiscal consolidation and growth aren’t contradictory,”
he said, forecasting that  German economic growth  will be closer
to 2 percent this year than the government’s official outlook of
1.4 percent.  
 The euro fell 0.5 percent to $1.2827 as of 3:38 p.m. in
Berlin. Earlier it jumped as much as 0.6 percent after German
business confidence unexpectedly surged to a three-year high in
July, defying concerns that the government’s 81.6 billion-euro
program of budget savings from next year will undermine the
economy.  
 “I was concerned about growth too, but the figures in
Germany are positively beyond expectations,” said Kampeter.
Even so, “I’m very much aware that we have to go on. Reform is
not just a one-week step, it’s ongoing.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
 Sara Eisen  in New York at 
 seisen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        