-- Hewitt Associates Sued Over `Inadequate' $4.9 Billion Acquisition by Aon
-- Andrew M. Harris
-- 2010-07-23T22:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/hewitt-associates-sued-over-inadequate-4-9-billion-acquisition-by-aon.html

          
          
             Hewitt Associates Inc. , the human
resources consulting firm, was sued in an Illinois state court
by investors claiming its $4.9 billion acquisition by the
Chicago insurance brokerage  Aon Corp.  is “inadequate.”  
 Aon, the world’s largest broker, said it would buy Hewitt
on July 12, for $50 per share, comprised of $25.61 in cash and
63 percent of an Aon share, a 41 percent premium over Hewitt’s
July 9 closing price of $35.40.  
 Separate complaints were filed in the city’s Cook County
Circuit Court today by an electrical workers union pension fund
and by an individual investor, objecting to the offer that Aon
said was agreed upon by Hewitt’s board.  
 “The proposed transaction is a result of a flawed process
and a grossly inadequate offer price,” according to both
filings.  
 Also named as defendants are Hewitt chairman Russell P.
Fraidin and nine directors. All are accused of breaching their
fiduciary duties to Hewitt stockholders.  
 Aon, too, is named as a defendant in both cases. “We are
aware of them and we have no comment,” company spokesman  David Prosperi  said by e-mail.  
 The plaintiffs seek class action, or group, status on
behalf of all Hewitt shareholders other than the defendants,
plus a court order blocking the transaction and declaring it
“unfair.”  
 “These types of lawsuits are not unexpected in response to
a transaction of this size,” Hewitt spokeswoman Maurissa Kanter
said in an e-mailed statement. “We are confident that the board
acted appropriately and in the best interests of Hewitt’s
stockholders.”  
 The firm is based in the Chicago suburb of Lincolnshire,
Illinois.  
 The cases are IBEW Local 164 Pension Fund v. Hewitt
Associates Inc., 10CH31612 and Calamore v. Hewitt Associates
Inc., 10CH31613, Cook County Circuit Court, Chancery Division
(Chicago).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        