-- Ex-Wife Reaps $1 Million Award From SEC in Pequot Trading Probe
-- Jesse Westbrook
-- 2010-07-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/ex-wife-reaps-1-million-from-sec-for-pequot-insider-trading-information.html

          
          
             The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission will pay the ex-wife of a former Microsoft Corp.
employee $1 million for helping the agency successfully sue
 Arthur Samberg ’s Pequot Capital Management for insider trading.  
 Karen Kaiser got the SEC’s biggest-ever whistleblower award
after providing evidence that was used to win a $10 million fine
from Samberg and Pequot, the agency said yesterday. In a May
 complaint , the SEC said Kaiser turned over e-mails contained on
a computer hard drive that indicated Samberg received nonpublic,
market-moving information from her ex-husband,  David Zilkha .  
 “Karen Kaiser, the ex-wife of Zilkha, and her husband,
Glen Kaiser, discovered key evidence that ultimately led to the
filing of a settled enforcement action,” the SEC said in a
statement. The award was approved this week, the agency said.  
 Samberg, 69, and Pequot, once the world’s biggest hedge
fund, agreed to pay almost $28 million, including forfeiture of
profits and interest, to settle with the SEC. David Zilkha, who
joined Pequot from Microsoft, is fighting the agency’s claims
that he gave Samberg information that helped the money manager
profit on trades of the software maker in 2001.  
 The SEC, which has until now paid bounties only in insider-
trading cases, has new authority under the financial-regulation
overhaul signed into law this week to reward any tip that
results in fines exceeding $1 million.  
 The agency, which has had authority to pay insider-trading
tipsters since 1989, has paid a total of $159,537 to five
claimants, SEC Inspector General, H.  David Kotz  said in a March
report that urged better use of the program.  
 Second Probe  
 The settlement with Samberg resolved the SEC’s second probe
of Pequot, after the regulator’s lawyers said in 2006 that there
was insufficient evidence to support a case. Investigators’
interest rekindled last year after they got copies of e-mails
showing Zilkha obtained advance information about Microsoft’s
 earnings  from colleagues at the Redmond, Washington-based
technology company.  
 Karen Kaiser copied the hard drive of the family’s shared
computer during her and Zilkha’s divorce proceedings, according
to her lawyers.  
 “We initially got involved to figure out why David Zilkha
seemed so reluctant to tell Karen about this $2.1 million
payment from Pequot,” Kaiser’s attorney Mark Sherman said in a
statement yesterday referring to money Zilkha received from the
hedge fund in 2007. “Once we analyzed the family hard drive, we
were able to help the SEC connect the dots.”  
 Samberg agreed to be barred from working as an investment
adviser as part of the SEC settlement. He told investors last
year he was winding down Pequot, based in Wilton, Connecticut.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        