-- Ford Posts $2.6 Billion Second-Quarter Profit on Pricier Cars
-- Keith Naughton
-- 2010-07-23T20:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/ford-posts-2-6-billion-second-quarter-profit-as-cars-fetch-higher-prices.html

          
          
             Ford Motor Co.  reported second-
quarter  net income  of $2.6 billion, completing its most
profitable first half in more than a decade, as car buyers pay
more for its new models.  
 Ford earned $4.7 billion in the year’s first six months,
its largest first-half profit since 1998, and posted its fifth
straight profitable quarter. Excluding some items, profit was 68
cents a share, topping the 41-cent average  estimate  of 12
 analysts  compiled by Bloomberg. The second-largest U.S.
automaker earned $2.26 billion a year earlier, helped by an
accounting gain.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  overhauled Ford’s
lineup, redesigning cars such as the Taurus and Fusion, and
adding extras like heated leather seats and voice-activated
electronics. He also boosted quality, winning Ford price gains
of $1.1 billion on cars and trucks in the quarter and helping
all of its auto units worldwide to become profitable.  
 “Ford’s on an amazing roll right now,” said  Rebecca Lindland , an analyst at IHS Automotive in Lexington,
Massachusetts. “They just have a ton of momentum.”  
 Second-quarter sales rose 15 percent to $31.3 billion from
$27.2 billion a year ago. Excluding Volvo, which the company is
selling, the year-ago revenue was $26.8 billion, Dearborn,
Michigan-based Ford said today in a statement. The average of
eight analysts’ estimates was for revenue of $29.4 billion.  
 The shares rose 63 cents, or 5.2 percent, to $12.72 at 4:02
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading , its highest
close since May 4. The stock has gained 27 percent this year.  
 Automotive Cash  
 Ford’s automotive operations had $21.9 billion in  cash  on
June 30, down from $25.3 billion on March 31. Ford paid down
 automotive debt  by $7 billion in the second quarter, lowering it
to $27.3 billion from $34.3 billion at the start of the quarter.  
 Ford said today it will have a positive automotive net cash
position by the end of 2011.  
 “We remain on track to deliver solid profits and positive
automotive operating-related cash flow for 2010, and we expect
even better financial results in 2011,” Mulally said in the
statement.  
 Ford said it won’t earn as much in the second half because
of high costs “to support growth and key product introductions,
as well as higher commodity costs and smaller reductions in
reserves at Ford Credit.” Ford will begin selling the
redesigned Explorer sport-utility vehicle and Focus small car in
the second half. Ford said it expects the costs associated with
new models will rise $1 billion this year in addition to $1
billion in extra costs for raw materials such as  steel .  
 Auto-Sales Forecast  
 U.S. auto sales in 2010 will be about 11.5 million to 12
million vehicles, Ford said. That’s down from the company’s
previous forecast 11.5 million to 12.5 million. Last year’s 10.4
million vehicles was the lowest annual total since 1982.  
 “Consumers are worried about their personal balance
sheet,”  Lewis Booth , Ford’s chief financial officer, said in an
interview. “While they’re paying back their debts, they’re
reluctant to take on more debt. And a car is a big purchase.”  
 Profit will increase in the company’s credit unit this
year, Booth told reporters today. The company previously said
the unit’s profit would be about the same as last year.  
 “We think 2010 is going to be a really great year,” Booth
said. “And we expect next year, based on our planning
assumptions, to be even better.”  
 Ford’s U.S. light-vehicle sales rose 20 percent in the
quarter, exceeding the industrywide gain of 18 percent. The pace
of U.S. auto sales slowed to an  annual rate  of 11.1 million
vehicles in June from 11.6 million in May as consumers stayed
out of showrooms.  
 Ford Debt  
 Ford has more debt than its U.S. rivals because it borrowed
$23 billion in late 2006, before credit markets froze. The cash
cushion helped the company withstand the recession and avoid the
bankruptcies that befell General Motors Corp. and Chrysler LLC.
The borrowing left Ford with  obligations  that Mulally says now
put it at a competitive disadvantage.  
 “They were fortunate enough to mortgage the entire company
to get that loan,” said  Efraim Levy , automotive equity analyst
at Standard & Poor’s. “They were lucky that they were so
desperate.”  
 Mulally, 64, has said Ford will deliver “solid profits”
this year and generate positive automotive operating cash flow.
Ford may have 2010 net income of $5.49 billion, the average
estimate of four analysts.  
 Mulally is boosting profit by reducing discounts while
selling new models such as the Taurus and Fiesta subcompact with
more options that fetch higher prices.  
 Buyers paid an average of $30,309 for Ford cars and trucks
in June as they splurged on extras like voice-activated phones
and stereo systems, according to Edmunds. Ford held 17.5 percent
of its U.S. market in the first half, up from 16.1 percent last
year. U.S. sales of its profitable F-Series pickup line rose 34
percent in the first half.  
 “Their cars are a touch better than their competitors,”
said  Jessica Caldwell , director of pricing and industry analysis
for Edmunds. “And when you offer something that is a step ahead
of the competition, people expect to pay a higher price.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Alan Mulally, chief executive officer of Ford Motor Co. Photographer: Bradley C. Bower/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Alan Mulally, chief executive officer of Ford Motor Co., talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton and Julie Hyman about the outlook for the automaker.
     Ford posted a second-quarter net income of $2.6 billion, completing its most profitable first half in more than a decade. Mulally says 2010 will be a "terrific year" and that 2011 will even better. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
