-- Forint Snaps Three-Day Gain as Moody's Puts Hungary Debt Ratings on Review
-- Piotr Skolimowski
-- 2010-07-23T13:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/forint-drops-as-moody-s-puts-hungary-s-sovereign-debt-ratings-on-review.html

          
          
             Hungary’s forint slid for first time
in four days and bonds fell as Moody’s Investors Service and
Standard & Poor’s said they were reviewing country’s credit
rating for a possible downgrade after talks with foreign lenders
broke off.  
 The forint lost 0.8 percent to 286.81 per euro as of 2:37
p.m. in Budapest. It slid the most among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The extra yield investors
demand to own Hungary’s debt over U.S. Treasuries rose 13 basis
points to 357 basis points, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index . The benchmark  BUX index  dropped 1 percent to
22,048.28, led by the country’s biggest lender, OTP Bank Nyrt.  
 The International Monetary Fund and European Union on July
17 suspended their review of Hungary’s 20 billion-euro ($25.8
billion) emergency bailout without backing the government’s
budget plans. The country has been relying on an emergency loan
since 2008 and the rescue package has served as a backstop to
reassure investors.  
 Standard & Poor’s will consider lowering Hungary’s debt
rating to a junk, saying that without the IMF aid the country
may “face higher and more volatile funding costs.” Moody’s
also put the country on review for possible downgrade earlier
today. S&P rates Hungary BBB-, its lowest investment grade. The
Moody’s rating is two steps higher at Baa1.  
 The “Hungarian government needs pressure from external
factors to realize that it needs IMF agreement to boost
credibility,” said  Koon Chow , an emerging-market strategist at
Barclays Capital in London. “These external factors include
ratings downgrades and currency depreciation. Otherwise they may
do nothing.”  
 Adverse Effect  
 Hungary’s credit-default swaps widened 14.5 basis points to
343 basis points, according to data provider CMA. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  
 An agreement with the IMF and the EU would give
“reassurance to the fiscal path,”  Dietmar Hornung , vice
president of Moody’s Investors Service, said today. Hungarian
lawmakers yesterday approved a bank tax three times larger than
levies proposed elsewhere in Europe, defying criticism from
international institutions. The IMF said on July 17 that the tax
would “adversely affect lending and growth.”  
 The forint has been the world’s worst-performing currency
in the past three months with an 8.2 percent decline against the
euro. Hungary’s debt management agency has missed its sales
target at four forint-denominated auctions since June 3, when an
official of the ruling Fidesz party said Hungary had a “slim
chance to avoid a Greek situation.”  
 Suspended Bond Auctions  
 The country turned to international lenders in 2008 to
avert default after demand for its debt dried up. At the time,
the government suspended bond auctions, relying solely on its
IMF credit line to repay debt and finance the budget. Regular
debt sales resumed in April 2009, and Hungary has tapped
international bond markets twice since.  
 “There is no way for Hungary to survive without the IMF
agreement,”  Lutz Karpowitz , emerging-markets currency
strategist at Commerzbank AG, said by phone in Frankfurt. “The
markets still believe that this is going to happen. Otherwise we
would have seen the forint at 300 per euro already.”  
 Hungary’s government will discuss its efforts to cut the
budget deficit with the European Union and not the International
Monetary Fund, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said on July 21.  
 The Hungarian government seems “to misunderstand the
dynamics between the International Monetary Fund and the
European Union under the IMF program framework,” Societe
Generale SA strategists  Fabien Manach  and  Benoit Anne  wrote in a
note today e-mailed before the Moody’s announcement. The French
bank has turned “short-term bearish” on the forint as the
currency is expensive “relative to the mounting fundamental
risks,” it said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        