-- Four Al-Qaeda Prisoners Are on the Run After Breaking Out of Baghdad Jail
-- Caroline Alexander
-- 2010-07-23T14:58:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/four-al-qaeda-prisoners-are-on-the-run-after-breaking-out-of-baghdad-jail.html

          
          
             Four al-Qaeda members are on the run
after escaping from a Baghdad prison that the U.S. military
handed over to Iraqi authorities last week.  
 The escapees include al-Qaeda’s local so-called ministers
of finance and interior, state-sponsored  al-Iraqiyah  television
reported today. It provided no further information on the
prisoners and didn’t identify them by name. Umar Khamis, the
prison’s warden, has also disappeared, al-Iraqiyah said.  
 American officials transferred the maximum-security site to
Iraq’s Justice Ministry on July 15 as part of an agreement that
paves the way for the exit of U.S. troops by the end of 2011.
Al-Iraqiyah said the U.S. had “imposed” Khamis as warden,
citing unidentified officials. The U.S. military, when asked for
comment, referred all questions to the Iraqi government.  
 An al-Qaeda “judge” is among the two other escapees,
Agence France-Presse reported, citing an unidentified police
official. The four were detained by U.S. forces in the northern
city of Mosul in 2008 and escaped two days ago, it said.  
 The American military called the prison Camp Cropper. The
Iraqis renamed it al-Karkh. It holds about 1,500 detainees and
stands on the outskirts of Baghdad near the airport.  
 The U.S. maintains a presence on the site, where it holds
about 200 prisoners in a special bloc at the request of the
Iraqi government. Eight of those prisoners are members of  Saddam Hussein ’s former regime and many of the others are linked to al-
Qaeda, American and Iraqi officials have said.  
 The Obama administration plans to scale back its force in
Iraq to about 50,000 by the end of August from a peak of about
165,000 in 2007.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Alexander  in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        