-- France's Four Stress-Tested Banks Pass European Exam, Central Bank Says
-- Fabio Benedetti-Valentini
-- 2010-07-23T17:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/france-s-four-stress-tested-banks-pass-european-exam-central-bank-says.html

          
          
             France’s four largest banks have
enough capital to outlast an economic downturn and a sovereign-
debt crisis, passing a European Union stress test, the Bank of
France said.  
 The aggregate Tier 1 ratio of capital held by  BNP Paribas 
SA, Societe Generale SA, Groupe  Credit Agricole  and BPCE SA
would fall to 9.3 percent from 9.9 percent at the end of last
year in case an economic slump leads to falling values for real
estate and government bonds, Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer  told reporters today. European regulators had said any
bank testing below 6 percent would have to raise capital.  
 “The French banking system once again shows its capacity
to resist crises,” Noyer said in Paris.  
 The four French institutions, which account for 80 percent
of the nation’s banking assets, were among 91 lenders in 20
countries subjected to the stress tests. The exercise was
intended to assuage investor concern about banks’ ability to
cope with a so-called “double-dip” recession.  
 For France, the worst-case scenario involved the economy
growing 0.7 percent this year and shrinking 0.1 percent in 2011,
 unemployment  going to 10.5 percent and property values falling 5
percent this year and 5 percent again next year.  
 Noyer said a greater success rate for European banks than
for U.S. banks in tests last year doesn’t mean European tests
were less stringent.  
 ‘Cleaning Out’  
 “The U.S. did its tests before all its banks had
recapitalized,” Noyer said. “European banks have now been
through recapitalizations, restructurings, cleaning out of their
portfolios. We’re arriving after the battle. A few years ago it
would have been different.”  
 Under the most severe conditions -- a slowing economy and
sovereign-debt crisis --  BNP Paribas , France’s largest bank,
would see its Tier 1 ratio, a key indicator of financial
strength falling to 9.6 percent from 10.1 percent, the French
banking regulator said on its website.  Societe Generale  would
see its ratio dropping to 10 percent from 10.7 percent.  
 Credit Agricole , France’s largest bank by branches, would
have Tier 1 capital of 9 percent, down from 9.7 percent. BPCE,
France’s second-largest bank by branches, would see its Tier 1
cut to 8.5 percent from 9.1 percent.  
 The total net exposure to Greece, Spain, Portugal, Ireland
and Italy at the end of March amounted to 34 billion euros at
BNP, 17.9 billion euros at Credit Agricole, 10.6 billion at
Societe Generale, and 8.8 billion at BPCE, with Italy
representing the largest share at every bank.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        