-- Gay Men Don't Engage in Riskier Sex When Taking AIDS Pills, CDC Study Says
-- Simeon Bennett
-- 2010-07-23T15:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/gay-men-don-t-engage-in-riskier-sex-when-taking-aids-pills-cdc-study-says.html

          
          
             Gay and bisexual men didn’t have
riskier sex or suffer serious side effects while using  Gilead
Sciences Inc. ’s Viread in a study of whether taking pills to
prevent HIV infection would loosen inhibitions or harm health.  
 Gay and bisexual men who took a daily pill -- either Viread
or a placebo -- were no more likely to take greater sexual risks
on the assumption they were protected than those who didn’t take
one, researchers from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention said at the  International AIDS Conference  in Vienna
today. The study also compared the rate of side effects between
those who received Viread and those who got a placebo, and found
no significant difference.  
 The  study  supports efforts to test whether drugs approved
to treat AIDS patients can also be used to prevent infections in
the first place. That theory, called pre-exposure prophylaxis,
or PrEP, was partially validated this week when a vaginal gel
containing Viread was shown to reduce infections by 39 percent
among women in South Africa.  
 “It is encouraging to hear there were no serious safety
concerns and that the men in the study did not appear to
increase risk-taking behaviors while taking a pill,” said
 Mitchell Warren , executive director of the New York-based AIDS
Vaccine Advocacy Coalition, in an e-mailed statement. “Much
more safety, adherence and risk data will be needed before PrEP
can be implemented if it is proven effective.”  
 400 Men  
 The study involved 400 HIV-negative gay and bisexual men in
San Francisco, Atlanta and Boston. About half received either
Viread or placebo immediately, and the other half started nine
months later.  
 There were seven HIV infections overall, and none in the
group that took Viread. The trial wasn’t designed to test
whether the drug prevented infections and no conclusions about
its effectiveness can be drawn from the study, the researchers
said. The distribution of infections could be due to chance,
said Lisa Grohskopf, a CDC researcher who presented the results.  
 “PrEP is one of the most-promising new prevention
approaches being explored, and if effective, could help address
an urgent need for additional solutions to help slow the HIV
epidemic in the U.S. and around the world,” the CDC said in a
statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simeon Bennett  in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        