-- Genzyme Rally Prompts Two Circuit Breakers, Spurring Complaints
-- Whitney Kisling
-- 2010-07-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/genzyme-rally-trips-circuit-breakers-prompting-complaints-from-investors.html

          
          
             Genzyme Corp. ’s rally after reports
the drugmaker was approached about a takeover triggered two
halts under market circuit breakers adopted in June, frustrating
traders trying to speculate on the stock.  
 Shares  of the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company were
paused for five minutes at 1:18 p.m. New York time yesterday
after surging 10 percent in less than a minute. A second halt
began at 1:25 p.m., when Genzyme climbed another 10 percent.  
 Genzyme’s halt, triggered by curbs enacted after the May 6
market plunge erased $862 billion in 20 minutes, was the first
that wasn’t spurred by orders that were later canceled. While
the pauses worked as designed, the halt at 1:25 p.m., which came
after the Wall Street Journal reported France’s Sanofi-Aventis
SA approached Genzyme, made no sense, according to U.S. Global
Investors Inc.’s  Michael Nasto  and Raymond James Financial
Inc.’s  Dan McMahon .  
 “The second is inexcusable,” said McMahon, director of
equity trading at Raymond James in New York. “At some point,
you need to let efficient market theory rule how stocks trade.”  
 A goal of the curbs is to help prevent swings in individual
stocks from causing another crash like the one on May 6. The
Securities and Exchange Commission is testing a program that
pauses trading for 5 minutes in Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
companies when their stock rises or falls 10 percent or more in
less than 5 minutes after 9:45 a.m. New York time.  
 Anadarko, Citigroup  
 “We don’t comment on rumors and speculation,” said  John Lacey , a spokesman for Genzyme Sanofi spokesman  Jean-Marc Podvin 
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  
 “Genzyme was a case of two circuit breaker halts that
happened one after the other,” Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. spokesman
 Robert Madden  wrote in an e-mail. Genzyme’s shares are listed on
the Nasdaq Stock Market.  
 Washington Post Co., Andarko Petroleum Corp. and  Citigroup
Inc.  have all had their stocks halted since the pilot program
began June 14. All of those executions were later canceled.
Genzyme’s trades yesterday weren’t been voided.  
 “Increased regulation is taking away opportunities for
traders who might have noticed this before others and failed to
profit from the trade due to regulation,” Nasto, a senior
trader at U.S. Global Investors, wrote in an e-mail in reference
to the second pause. His firm manages about $2.5 billion in San
Antonio. The shares “shouldn’t have been stopped the second
time,” he added.  
 Russell 1000  
 The circuit breakers that apply to  S&P 500  stocks will soon
expand to Russell 1000 Index companies and to more than 300
exchange-traded funds. Brokers and firms such as Credit Suisse
Group AG, Getco LLC and Allston Trading LLC have suggested the
SEC should consider an alternate mechanism that prevents trading
below a specified level instead of halting all transactions when
a circuit breaker is triggered.  
 While the first halt gave  Andrew Ross , partner and global
equity trader for First New York Securities LLC, time to check
orders and position for when trading began again, he said the
second halt was unnecessary.  
 “The stock should be up 20 percent on the news,” he said.
“The first halt provided an amazing opportunity to buy.”  
 The shares rose 15 percent, the most since 2000, to $62.52
at 4 p.m. in New York. The surged as much as 24 percent. Sanofi,
France’s biggest drugmaker, is waiting for a response to the
approach and hasn’t entered substantive negotiations, said two
people familiar with the matter, who declined to be named
because the talks are private. The offer values Genzyme at less
than $20 billion, they said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney Kisling  in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        