-- German Business Confidence Unexpectedly Surges
-- Simon Berberich
-- 2010-07-23T09:19:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/german-business-confidence-unexpectedly-climbs-to-highest-level-since-2007.html

          
          
             German business confidence
unexpectedly surged to a three-year high in July after exports
boomed and economic growth accelerated.  
 The  Ifo institute  said its  business climate index , based on
a survey of 7,000 executives, jumped to 106.2, the highest since
July 2007, from 101.8 in June. That’s the biggest monthly
increase since records for a reunified Germany began in 1990.
Economists expected a decline to 101.5, according to the median
of 41 forecasts in a Bloomberg News  survey .  
 The report is the latest to suggest Europe’s recovery may
be stronger than economists forecast even as governments cut
spending to rein in budget deficits and investors fret over the
health of the region’s banks. Growth in Europe’s  services and
manufacturing   industries  unexpectedly accelerated in July,
consumer confidence improved this month and  industrial orders 
rose in May, data released yesterday showed.  
 “The outlook for economic growth in Europe has been too
pessimistic,” said  Klaus Baader , chief euro-area economist at
Societe Generale in London. German data in particular “show
astonishing strength in all sectors of the economy,” he said.  
 The euro jumped almost a cent to $1.2966 after the report.
Ifo’s measure of executives’ expectations rose to 105.5 from
102.5. The gauge of the current situation increased to 106.8
from 101.2.  
 Raised Forecasts  
 The Bundesbank on June 11 raised its growth forecasts for
Europe’s largest economy, predicting expansion of 1.9 percent
this year and 1.4 percent in 2011, up from 1.6 percent and 1.2
percent respectively. The economy contracted 4.9 percent last
year, the most since World War II.  
 The U.K. economy, one of Germany’s biggest export markets,
grew 1.1 percent in the three months through June, almost twice
as much as economists forecast, the Office for National
Statistics said in London today.  
 German exports leapt 9.2 percent in May and unemployment
fell for a 12th straight month in June.  
 The economy is experiencing a “powerful” recovery, with the
labor market witnessing a “minor miracle,” Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said this week.  
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the world’s largest luxury
carmaker, on July 13 raised its 2010 sales and earnings
forecast. Its rival  Daimler AG , the second-largest luxury car
manufacturer, increased its full-year forecast last week after
second-quarter profit beat analysts’ estimates.  
 Slowing Dynamic  
 Volkswagen AG ’s Audi luxury division said on July 8 that
sales rose 8.7 percent last month, led by growth in China, the
U.S. and the U.K.  
 Still, the benchmark  DAX share index  has dropped 1 percent
in the past month and  investor confidence  declined for a third
straight month in July.  Factory orders  unexpectedly fell for the
first time in five months in May.  
 “The environment for the second half of the year looks
more solid than initially expected,” said  Alexander Koch , an
economist at UniCredit in Munich. “Nevertheless, although a
deceleration in the economic dynamic is likely to be postponed,
it still remains inevitable.”  
 European regulators are testing 91 banks to examine whether
they can withstand a shrinking economy and a drop in government-
bond values. Governments are counting on the tests on firms
including Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank AG  to reassure investors
about the strength of the financial system and the amount of
state support lenders may need. The results are due to be
published at 6 p.m. today Frankfurt time.  
 “Should a German machine builder worry about bank stress-
test results?” said  Jens Kramer , an economist at NordLB in
Hanover. “I see no reason why. I don’t think that credit supply
will suffer.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
 Simon Berberich  in Frankfurt at 
 sberberich@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bayerischen Motoren Werke AG chief executive officer Norbert Reithofer. Photographer: Guenter Schiffmann/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
