-- GIC Says Risk of Shocks May Trigger World Recession `Sooner Than Expected'
-- Netty Ismail
-- 2010-07-23T10:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/gic-says-risk-of-shocks-may-trigger-world-recession-sooner-than-expected-.html

          
          
             The global rebound is “fragile”
and shocks could push the world toward another recession,
according to Government of Singapore Investment Corp., manager
of more than $100 billion of the nation’s foreign reserves.  
 Risks to the global recovery have increased due to Europe’s
debt turmoil, continued deleveraging in the U.S. and
protectionist pressures,  Tony Tan , deputy chairman of  GIC , said
in a speech in Singapore today. The fund is ranked the world’s
sixth-largest state investment company by Sovereign Wealth Fund
Institute in California.  
 “The economic recovery, while real, is fragile and there
is a risk that negative shocks could push the global economy
towards a recession sooner than expected,” Tan said. “The
strong rebound in global industrial production is peaking while
monetary and fiscal policies, particularly in the larger
emerging economies, are being normalized.”  
 Policy makers in most developed economies have refrained
from raising interest rates from record lows amid concern the
global recovery will falter. The International Monetary Fund
this month said financial-market turmoil has increased the risks
to the rebound, and Moody’s Investors Service lowered its credit
ratings on Portugal and Ireland.  
 Bernanke’s Comments  
 “The challenge for policy makers in many developed
economies will be to convince markets that they have credible
plans to ensure sustainable public finances over the medium to
long term, while minimizing the negative short-term impact on
growth,” Tan said. “While markets have focused on Greece,
Portugal, Spain, Ireland and Italy, this risk remains high for
the U.K., U.S., and Japan.”  
 U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said July 21
the economic outlook remains “unusually uncertain,” adding to
concern the global recovery is losing steam. The comments sent
crude oil and metal prices lower and triggered declines in
stocks in the U.S. and Asia.  
 Developed economies will take a “long time” to recover
fully from the global crisis and emerging nations such as
Brazil, Russia, India and China will gain importance, Tan said.  
 The world economy may grow 4 percent in 2010, before
expanding at a more moderate pace next year, he said. Growth in
Asia excluding Japan may reach 8 percent this year, with China
and India expanding 8 percent to 10 percent, Tan estimated.  
 Emerging Markets  
 “For investors, the rise of emerging markets will mean
that a larger proportion of their investments will be in these
markets,” he said. “Far from being a risky and perhaps
optional part of their portfolios, emerging markets will become
a core and unavoidable asset class in global portfolios.”  
 GIC’s investments in stocks accounted for 38 percent of its
portfolio in the year to March 31, 2009, while bond investments
represented 24 percent, according to its annual report released
in September. Allocations to alternative investments, including
private equity, real estate and hedge funds, made up 30 percent
of its portfolio.  
 GIC bought stakes in  Citigroup Inc . and UBS AG in 2008 as
the collapse in the U.S. subprime mortgage market in 2007 froze
credit markets and led to almost $1.8 trillion in losses and
writedowns at financial institutions worldwide.  
 The global financial crisis of 2008 and 2009 will likely
“accelerate the shift in economic power from the developed to
the emerging world,” Tan said. “Asia is at the cusp of the
next stage in its development.”  
 Domestic demand will be a key source of Asia’s economic
growth, which has been largely dependent on exports, and
“extensive” infrastructure investment will be needed as cities
develop, Tan said. Higher wages and investment inflows will over
time result in “significantly stronger currencies” in the
region, he said.  
 The need for capital to finance Asia’s growth will also
fuel the growth of the region’s foreign-exchange, bond and
equity markets as well as its financial institutions, he said.
Asia, led by China, will also increase research and development
of technologies that address environmental constraints such as
renewable technology, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Government of Singapore Investment Corp. deputy chairman Tony Tan. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Luca Silipo, chief Asia-Pacific economist at Natixis, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the outlook for results of the European Union's bank stress tests.
     Regulators are scrutinizing banks to assess if they have enough capital, defined as a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6 percent, to withstand a recession and sovereign debt crisis, according to a document from the Committee of European Banking Supervisors. Lenders that fail the trials will be made to raise additional capital. The results will be published by CEBS and national regulators from 6 p.m. Brussels time today. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
