-- Goldman Sachs Sues to Overturn Arbitration Award in Bayou Group Bankruptcy
-- Bob Van Voris
-- 2010-07-23T23:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/goldman-sachs-sues-to-overturn-20-5-million-finra-arbitration-decision.html

          
          
             A  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  unit sued
to overturn a $20.5 million arbitration award to creditors of
the failed hedge fund firm Bayou Group LLC.  
 The  Financial Industry Regulatory Authority , the
independent regulatory group for the securities industry, on
June 24 issued the decision in favor of Bayou’s creditors in an
arbitration targeting Goldman Sachs Execution and Clearing LP
for its role as the prime broker and clearing broker for Bayou’s
hedge funds.  
 The creditors claimed the unit facilitated the fraud
committed at Stamford, Connecticut-based Bayou, which filed for
bankruptcy protection in May 2006. Bayou co-founder  Samuel Israel  pleaded guilty to directing a $400 million fraud and is
serving 22 years in prison.  
 “In rendering its award, the arbitration panel manifestly
disregarded the law and exceeded its authority,” Goldman said
in its complaint filed today in federal court in New York.  
 John Rich, a lawyer who represented the Bayou unsecured
creditors in the arbitration, said the grounds for overturning
an arbitration award are very narrow.  
 “We think it’s completely without basis,” Rich said. “We
look forward to recouping the full award to the Bayou
creditors.”  
 Israel is incarcerated at the same federal prison complex
in North Carolina where Bernard Madoff is serving a 150-year
sentence for orchestrating the biggest Ponzi scheme in history.  
 In addition to Israel’s 20 year sentence for the fraud, the
court added two years for faking his suicide and disappearing on
the day he was to begin his sentence.  
 The case is Goldman Sachs Execution & Clearing LP v.
Official Unsecured Creditors’ Committee of Bayou Group LLC, 10-
CV-5622, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        