-- Grupo Mexico to Merge Mining Units in $6 Billion Deal After Asarco Gains
-- Carlos Manuel Rodriguez
-- 2010-07-23T20:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/grupo-mexico-proposes-combining-asarco-southern-copper-mining-operations.html

          
          
             Grupo Mexico SAB , the nation’s
largest mining company, said it plans to merge its Asarco LLC
and  Southern Copper Corp.  units into a single business to save
costs after regaining control of Asarco late last year.  
 Investors would receive 1.237 shares of Americas Mining
Corp., which owns Asarco, for each share of Southern Copper,
Grupo Mexico said today in a statement. The transaction values
Asarco at $5.94 billion, Grupo Mexico said. Americas Mining
would list its shares in the U.S. and in Peru after the deal.  
 Combining the units would place all Grupo Mexico’s mining
operations into one publicly traded company, allowing investors
to value that separately from Grupo Mexico’s railroad and oil-
drilling units. The merger would also cut transportation costs
and capital investments, Grupo Mexico said.  
 Asarco’s “good fundamentals” should “generate more value
for the group,”  Rodrigo Heredia , an analyst with Ixe Grupo
Financiero in Mexico City, said in a telephone interview.  
 As of yesterday, Grupo Mexico’s 80 percent stake in
Phoenix-based metals producer Southern Copper was worth about
$21.8 billion or 10 percent more than the Mexico City-based
company’s own market value.  
 Combining units simplifies options for investors who may be
interested exclusively in mining stocks, Heredia said. The next
step for Grupo Mexico to increase shareholder value would be to
list its transportation division, he said.  
 Railroad IPO  
 Grupo Mexico plans to sell shares in its railroad business
in an initial public offering, Chief Financial Officer Daniel
Muniz said in a May 21 interview. Grupo Mexico is controlled by
billionaire German Larrea.  
 Southern gained 21 cents to $32.26 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares rose 11 percent in
the four days before the announcement. Grupo Mexico added 1.21
pesos, or 3.7 percent, to 33.62 pesos in Mexico City trading,
the biggest increase since June 10.  
 Americas Mining is fully owned by Grupo Mexico. Tucson,
Arizona-based Asarco was in bankruptcy until Grupo Mexico
regained control on Dec. 9.  
 After the transaction, Southern Copper’s minority
shareholders would own 16.6 percent of Americas Mining, which
would own 100 percent of Southern Copper, Grupo Mexico said.  
 Southern Copper plans to create a special committee of
independent directors to evaluate the offer, Grupo Mexico said.  
 Morgan Stanley is the financial adviser to Grupo Mexico,
and Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP is the company’s legal
counsel.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos M. Rodriguez  in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net ;
 Crayton Harrison  in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        