-- Microsoft Rides Windows 7 Success to Record in Fourth-Quarter Revenue
-- Dina Bass
-- 2010-07-23T20:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/microsoft-rides-windows-7-success-to-record-for-fourth-quarter-revenue.html

          
          
             Microsoft Corp. , the world’s largest
software maker, posted record fourth-quarter revenue after the
most successful debut of its flagship operating system.  
 Sales gained 22 percent, the biggest quarterly increase in
more than two years, to $16 billion, the company said yesterday.
Net income topped analysts’ predictions, as did revenue for the
division that sells Windows.  
 Expectations for Microsoft’s results ran high after
quarterly reports this month from Intel Corp. and  Apple Inc. 
blew away analysts’ projections. Still, sales at Microsoft’s top
three  businesses  exceeded estimates. The company also said it
has sold 175 million copies of Windows 7 since the program’s
October release, the fastest pace for its main operating system.  
 “It was a big beat,” said  Sandeep Aggarwal , an analyst at
Caris & Co. in San Francisco who recommends  buying  the stock.
“Street expectations have only gone up in the last two, three
weeks.”  
 Revenue in the Windows unit rose 44 percent to $4.55
billion, topping the $4.3 billion projection of  Brent Thill , an
analyst at UBS AG in San Francisco. Business division sales,
made up mostly of Office software, were $5.25 billion, above his
$5.05 billion estimate. Microsoft released a new version of
Office during the quarter.  
 Server software  sales of $4.01 billion topped Thill’s $3.85
billion estimate.  
 Microsoft fell 3 cents to $25.81 on the  Nasdaq Stock Market 
at 4 p.m. New York time. It has lost 15 percent this year.  
 Falling Behind?  
 Brendan Barnicle , an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities in
Portland, Oregon, said he expected the  shares  to rise on the
results. The stock may be held back on investor concern that
Microsoft is falling behind in areas like mobile-phones and
tablet computers. He said his clients are less focused on
results from Windows and Office.  
 “All I can conclude is that shareholders are just not
interested in paying for Windows and Office earnings,” he said.
“If the stock is not going to move on this, what’s it going to
take to make it move?”  
 Fourth-quarter net income climbed 48 percent to $4.52
billion, or 51 cents a share, exceeding the 46-cent average of
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Analysts had predicted
Microsoft would have total sales of $15.3 billion in the period,
which ended June 30.  
 Apple, which competes with Microsoft in operating systems
for computers, tablets and mobile phones, reported quarterly
sales this week of $15.7 billion, topping estimates. Intel, the
world’s biggest chipmaker, posted record second-quarter sales
last week and said corporate spending is strengthening.  
 Multiyear Contracts  
 Microsoft’s fourth-quarter unearned revenue, a measure of
multiyear contracts, was $14.8 billion, above the $14.7 billion
estimate of  Heather Bellini , an analyst at ISI Group in New
York.  
 Signs of demand by businesses for bigger purchases improved
in the quarter. Renewal rates of multiyear enterprise agreements
reached the highest for the year, returning to Microsoft’s
historical average of 66 percent to 75 percent, Chief Financial
Officer  Peter Klein  said in an interview. The company doesn’t
provide a more specific figure. Billings, a measure of future
revenue, grew 27 percent, he said.  
 Revenue from agreements that have been signed but for which
customers haven’t yet been billed rose to about $15 billion,
Microsoft said. That’s from about $13.5 billion at the end of
the third quarter.  
 Mobile Competition  
 Shareholders  may remain unimpressed by Microsoft’s
successes, with the company facing accelerating competition in
mobile and tablet devices from Apple and  Google Inc. , Barnicle
said.  
 Steve Ballmer , Microsoft’s chief executive officer, said in
June that the company “missed a whole cycle” in mobile-phone
software, underscoring the company’s challenges from rivals.  
 Sales in the Online Services unit fell short of Thill’s
prediction. Still, the Bing Internet search engine gained a
point of U.S. market share in the quarter, rising to 12.7
percent, according to ComScore Inc. in Reston, Virginia. Google
had 62.6 percent, followed by 18.9 percent for Yahoo! Inc.,
which is switching over to using Bing’s technology.  
 “All these threats may not be anywhere near as big as what
they are perceived to be,” Barnicle said. “But it’s perception
that moves the stock.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dina Bass  in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Jim Yin, an analyst at Standard & Poor's, discusses Microsoft Corp.’s fourth-quarter earnings and the outlook for the company.
      Fourth-quarter net income climbed 48 percent to $4.52 billion, or 51 cents a share, exceeding the 46-cent average of analysts’ estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales advanced 22 percent to $16 billion, the company said yesterday in a statement. Yin speaks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.” (Source: Bloomberg) 
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
