-- Rupee Outlook Is Turning `Outright Bearish,' Morgan Stanley Analyst Says
-- Patricia Lui
-- 2010-07-23T04:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/indian-rupee-s-outlook-is-turning-outright-bearish-morgan-stanley-says.html

          
          
             Morgan Stanley is “poised to turn
outright bearish” on India’s rupee on signs the economy is
slowing and as a technical chart signaled the currency may be
poised to weaken.  
 The rupee’s economic fundamentals are deteriorating as
growth slows, the balance of payments declines and because
monetary policy may not be sufficient to temper inflation, Hong
Kong-based strategists  Stewart Newnham  and  Yee Wai Chong , wrote
in a research report today. Morgan Stanley’s outlook for the
currency may be more “negative” should the central bank
refrain from raising borrowing costs next week, they said.  
 “Three of the rupee’s fundamentals are softening: macro-
dynamics, balance of payments and monetary policy credibility,”
the note read. “Our negative bias is reinforced by the fact
that the rupee’s technicals are pointing in the same direction
as the fundamentals. However, we wait to go outright negative on
the Reserve Bank of India delaying its policy tightening and/or
a decisive break above the 46.80 neckline” on the rupee’s chart,
the strategists wrote.  
 The rupee rose 0.3 percent to 46.90 per dollar as of 9:36
a.m. in Mumbai, and is down 0.5 percent from a week ago,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month non-
deliverable forwards
signal the currency may drop 0.2 percent to 47.20 in a month.  
 A head-and-shoulders formation that earlier suggested rupee
gains, will be invalidated if dollar-rupee closes the week above
46.80, according to the report. The pattern is formed by three
consecutive peaks that mark the head and the shoulders, with a
neckline forming as an asset price declines to previous lows on
the chart. The head-and-shoulders typically indicates a reversal.  
 ‘Confirmation Signal’  
 India’s  current-account  deficit widened to a record $13
billion in the first quarter from a shortfall of $12.2 billion
in the previous period, official data show. Foreign net capital
flows into stocks reached $8.8 billion this year, half of the
$17.6 billion in 2009, an all-time high. Industrial production
rose 11.5 percent in May from a year earlier, slowing from the
16.5 percent pace in April, a report on July 12 showed.  
 The government estimates the economy will expand 8.5
percent in the year to March 31, the fastest pace in three years.  
 The currency was ranked by economists at the start of the
year as Asia’s second-most promising for 2010. Instead, it has
dropped 1 percent, the second-worst performance among Asia’s 10
most-active currencies after South Korea’s won.  
 “Downside risks to growth are appearing,” Morgan
Stanley’s research report said. “Our India economics team has
thus revised down its 2011 gross domestic product forecast to
8.4 percent from 8.8 percent.”  
 India’s central bank will raise the  reverse-repurchase rate 
by a quarter of a percentage point to 4.25 percent on July 27,
according to all 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 “If the RBI does delay its tightening, then this would
immediately confirm our bearish view on the rupee,” the note
read. Even if the central bank raises rates, it “does not
cancel our confirmation signal outright, rather only postpones
it.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        