-- India's 'You Name It' Inflation Escalates Pressure on Singh, Central Bank
-- Kartik Goyal
-- 2010-07-23T03:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/india-s-you-name-it-inflation-increases-pressure-on-singh-central-bank.html

          
          
             In mid-July the Gujarat Cooperative
Milk Marketing Federation, an Indian dairy-products maker,
raised milk prices in  New Delhi  by as much as 2 rupees (4.2 U.S.
cents) a liter, to almost 30 rupees (64 cents).  
 The increase has a real impact on the city’s poor, who
scrape by on as little as $2 a day. And the government of Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  is indirectly responsible: Singh is
trying to lower India’s  budget deficit  -- it’s at a 16-year high
-- and has started to roll back $5.5 billion in subsidies for
gasoline and diesel. With gas prices suddenly higher, it’s a lot
more expensive to run a fleet of milk trucks.  
 “We were left with no choice but to hike prices as
transportation costs have jumped,” says R.S. Sodhi, the milk co-
op’s chairman,  Bloomberg BusinessWeek  reports in its July 26
issue.  
 This should have been a good summer for Singh. The economy
will probably grow more than 8.5 percent for the year through
March, faster than the 7.4 percent for the last fiscal year. The
prime minister no longer needs the two big communist parties in
his coalition to pass legislation, so he can push market-
friendly policies such as the elimination of fuel subsidies,
which eat up 2.5 percent of the budget.  
 Yet the specter of  inflation  is haunting Singh’s government.
The benchmark wholesale price index jumped 10.5 percent in June
from the year before, after a 10.1 percent gain in May. Consumer
prices paid by industrial and farm  workers  in India are
increasing at almost 14 percent annually, the highest among 17
countries tracked by Bloomberg in the Asia-Pacific region.  
 Impact on Inflation  
 In the long run, the fuel-price increase will encourage
companies to use energy more efficiently. For this year, though,
the rise will add about a percentage point to wholesale
inflation, according to the Reserve Bank of India, the central
bank.  
 Two other factors are driving inflation. Food prices jumped
after 2009’s disastrous monsoon resulted in poor harvests of
rice, lentils and sugar. The revival of the industrial economy
has created bottlenecks in the supply chain even as the middle
class buys more cars, apparel, and other goods.  
 “I’ve never seen such a time when we had to struggle so
hard to make ends meet,” says Shweta Kapoor, a housewife
haggling over vegetables with a vendor in Faridabad township
near New Delhi. “You name it, everything has become expensive.”  
 Emergency Reserve  
 Singh is under attack for not containing the situation.  
 “Why didn’t you release more grains in the market to reduce
the impact of the drought?” ex-central bank governor  Bimal Jalan 
asks rhetorically in a Bloomberg interview. “We heard inflation
will come down by March, then April,” says Jalan, who ran the
central bank between 1997 and 2003. “It was supposed to come
down by now.”  
 The government keeps stores of grain and meat for
emergencies.  
 “They could have done a good job making it available,” says
D.K. Aggarwal, chairman of New Delhi-based fund manager SMC. The
opposition Bharatiya Janata Party organized a nationwide strike
on July 5 when Singh reduced the fuel subsidies.  
 Reserve Bank of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao  has
reversed last year’s loose money policy and raised rates three
times since March, to 5.5 percent.  
 “They still have more work to do,” says  Brian Jackson , an
emerging markets strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in Hong Kong.
Subbarao wants to curb prices without strangling the recovery.  
 RBI Decision  
 Singh’s government is calling on Subbarao to get tough.
 Montek Singh Ahluwalia , deputy chairman of the powerful Planning
Commission, said recently the central bank should make “whatever
adjustments it feels necessary,” as inflation above 10 percent
is “not acceptable.” Another rate hike is forecast when the
central bank meets on July 27.  
 Singh and Subbarao are both counting on lower food prices
by September, when the harvest starts to come in. The 2010
monsoon season is off to a better start. If food prices don’t
abate, inflation could settle in and require major tightening by
the central bank to bring it under control. That may endanger
growth -- and weaken Singh’s government. When milk prices go up,
voters take note.  
 The bottom line: Inflation is becoming a political and
economic issue in India. Food prices are largely to blame, and
the central bank is under pressure to act.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Rahul Chadha, head of India equities at Mirae Asset Global Investment, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about Indian stocks and the economy. 
     Chadha, speaking in Hong Kong, says Indian companies may increase earnings by as much as 25 percent this year, with first-quarter results suggesting that profit growth is "on track".  (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
