-- India Faces Coal Deficit of 50% of Expected Power Plant Demand, KPMG Says
-- Natalie Obiko Pearson
-- 2010-07-23T00:52:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/india-faces-coal-deficit-of-50-of-expected-power-plant-demand-kpmg-says.html

          
          
             India may face a coal shortfall of
189 million metric tons a year by 2015, about 50 percent of the
power sector’s expected demand, leading to a twofold increase in
imports, KPMG said.  
 Electricity generators are likely to add 75 gigawatts of
capacity, which will require an additional 375 million tons a
year of coal, only half of which will be met by domestic
production based on current trends, said Arvind Mahajan,
executive director at KPMG Advisory Services Pvt. The world’s
third-fastest growing major economy generates more power from
thermal coal than any other fuel.  
 “That leaves a gap of 189 million tons, some of which will
need to be covered though improvements in the domestic coal
sector,” Mahajan said by telephone from Mumbai. “There will be
a significant gap that will need to be covered through
imports.”  
 Imports may rise to as much as 150 million tons per year,
he said. That would be 250 percent above the amount India was
estimated to have imported in the fiscal year ended March 30 by
N.C. Jha, a director at  Coal India Ltd.,  the nation’s monopoly
producer.  
 India has traditionally looked to Indonesia for imports.
Rising domestic demand there and the large volumes involved are
prompting Indian companies to look further afield at mines in
Mozambique, Botswana and Australia, Mahajan said.  
 “Indian companies have an advantage in that they’re
looking for lower-quality coal,” which other importers in Japan,
South Korea and Europe with older plants can’t use, he said.  
 Buying Overseas  
 Private power companies, including  Tata Power Co. ,  Reliance
Power Ltd. ,  GMR Infrastructure Ltd.  and  JSW Energy Ltd. , have
acquired coal assets overseas in Indonesia and South Africa.
NTPC Ltd., the state-run utility and country’s biggest generator,
plans to buy mines overseas to source 67 percent of its imports,
Chairman  R.S. Sharma  said by telephone on July 14.  
 South Africa and Colombia, which last year were the biggest
exporters of steam coal to countries with ports on the Atlantic
Ocean, are also boosting shipments to India where they get
better prices.  
 Steps can be taken to increase India’s domestic production
by as much as 80 million tons a year with better machinery and
by developing deeper and new mines, Mahajan said.  
 India is increasingly forced to import, “not for the want
of reserves. It’s the speed at which we’re developing them,” he
said. Commercializing a mine can take 15 years, three times
longer than in other countries, he said.  
 Poor infrastructure to transport coal and an inefficient
supply chain is also unnecessarily boosting imports because
power stations are unable to count on reliable, on-time
deliveries locally and forced to secure their own supplies from
elsewhere, Mahajan said.  
 India’s annual coal output is 535 million tons,  Alok Perti ,
additional secretary to the coal ministry, said on July 7. The
government aims to expand current installed power capacity by 77
percent to 286,756 megawatts by the end of the financial year
ending March 2017, according to the Planning Commission.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Frederic Neumann, an economist at HSBC Holdings Plc, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about India's competition with  China for natural resources.
     Indian Oil Minister Murli Deora traveled to Nigeria, Angola, Uganda, Sudan, Saudi Arabia and Venezuela this year, leading a record number of delegations to gain oil for the world’s third-fastest-growing major economy. The flurry of visits is part of a new drive to find oil for India’s 1.2 billion people after losing out to China in at least $12.5 billion of contracts in the past year. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
