-- Investec of South Africa Targets Rich in New U.K. Structured Products Push
-- Sarfraz Thind
-- 2010-07-23T14:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/investec-of-south-africa-targets-rich-in-new-u-k-structured-products-push.html

          
          
             Investec Plc  is targeting U.K. high-
net worth investors for the first time with a new series of
structured products linked to major stock indexes.  
 The South African investment and private banking group is
issuing three products next week, according to Gary Dale, head
of intermediary sales at Investec in London. One is a tradeable
security and the other two take the form of so-called structured
plans, deals usually sold to retail buyers with more marketing
information provided about the transactions.  
 Investec has so far focused on the mass retail market with
its structured products business, Dale said. The two “plan”
deals are similar to products Investec has traditionally done,
though they require a minimum investment level of 25,000 pounds
($38,600) compared with the normal level of 1,500 pounds. The
tradeable securities are for wealth managers to buy and sell on
behalf of clients.  
 “We have not had much of a market in the high-end, most of
which has been going to large investment banks,” Dale said.  
 Investec’s Portable Beta Plan provides investors with
returns tied to the MSCI Emerging Markets Index and FTSE 100
index of U.K. stocks. The five-year structure pays 100 percent
of any rise in the emerging-market index. Investors won’t incur
a loss if emerging markets decline, but may lose money if the
FTSE 100 drops more than 50 percent between the notes’ issue and
maturity date. The securities will be offered July 28.  
 New Products  
 The bank is likely to offer additional products which link
potential gains to one asset and losses to another, Dale said.  
 “We offered a similar product which had  BP Plc  as the
upside and the FTSE as the downside a few months ago, though it
didn’t see that much take-up at the time,” he said.  
 The bank’s Geared Return Plan is also linked to the FTSE
100. Investors get a 33 percent coupon if the index is above the
deal’s issuance level after three years. The return is cut to
16.5 percent if the U.K. index falls as much as 50 percent.
Investors incur a loss equal to the decline of the index if it
slumps more than 50 percent.  
 Investec is also selling an “autocallable” security, Dale
said, which is redeemed, or called, early if the underlying
asset is at or above specific levels on certain dates.  
 The bank’s three-year notes pay a 12.5 percent coupon and
are automatically called if the FTSE 100 is above the issuance
level at the end of the first year, Dale said. If the notes
aren’t called, the coupon steps up to 25 percent in year two,
and to 37.5 percent in the third year. If the index isn’t above
its initial level at any of the three anniversary dates,
investors get back their initial investment and no coupon.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarfraz Thind  in London at 
 Sthind3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        