-- Israel to Return Three Turkish Ships From Gaza Flotilla, Davutoglu Says
-- Benjamin Harvey
-- 2010-07-23T15:10:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/israel-to-return-three-turkish-ships-from-gaza-flotilla-davutoglu-says.html

          
          
             Israel agreed to return to Turkey
three vessels it seized in a raid on a flotilla carrying aid to
the Gaza Strip, Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  said.  
 “This was in any case something Israel had to do,” the
state-run news agency Anatolia quoted Davutoglu as telling
reporters today during a visit to the Vietnamese capital, Hanoi.
“We hope the other necessary steps will also be taken.”  
 Turkey has demanded that Israel submit to an international
investigation into the May 31 raid, pay compensation and
apologize to the families of the nine Turkish activists killed,
as conditions for its restoration of full diplomatic relations
with Israel. Turkey withdrew its ambassador to Israel and is
still threatening to cut off relations completely if Israel
doesn’t meet the demands.  
 Mark Regev , spokesman for the Israeli prime minister’s
office, declined to comment on the issue of the Turkish ships
when contacted by telephone today. Calls to an Israeli Foreign
Ministry spokesman weren’t immediately returned.  
 The Turkish Foreign Ministry said that there had been
positive developments and the two sides were discussing
technical details and timing of the vessels’ return, according
to a spokeswoman who declined to be identified in keeping with
department custom.  
 The Turkish citizens were killed after Israeli commandos
raided one of six aid ships in a flotilla trying to breach
Israel’s embargo of Gaza. Israel and Egypt loosened restrictions
on road shipments into the Palestinian territory following
international criticism of the operation.  
 Israel has rejected calls for an international inquiry and
set up its own civilian and military probes.  
 Hamas in Control  
 Israel and Egypt have restricted shipments to Gaza since
Hamas seized full control there in 2007 after winning
Palestinian parliamentary elections the previous year. The
Islamic group is considered a terrorist organization by the
U.S., the European Union and Israel.  
 Palestinians, backed by the United Nations and human-rights
groups, say the restrictions on food imports and construction
materials have created a humanitarian crisis.  
 Israel’s Cabinet agreed on June 20 to allow in all foods
and lift some restrictions on construction materials. Israel has
said building supplies could be used to build rockets, bunkers
or bombs.  
 Israel began a three-week military offensive in Gaza in
December 2008 that it said was meant to stop the firing of
rockets by Hamas and other Palestinian militants into its
territory. More than 1,000 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were
killed in the conflict.  
 More than 400 rockets and mortars have been fired from Gaza
into Israel since the end of the war, killing a foreign worker,
the Israeli army said.  
 Israeli bombing and ground operations during the offensive
destroyed more than 3,000 homes, and Israel’s restrictions on
construction materials have prevented Palestinians from being
able to rebuild, the UN said.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Benjamin Harvey  at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        