-- Japanese Bonds Rise for Second Week on Yen, Lingering Deflation Concerns
-- Yasuhiko Seki
-- 2010-07-23T22:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/japanese-bonds-rise-for-second-week-on-yen-lingering-deflation-concerns.html

          
          
             Japan’s 10-year  bonds  completed a
two-week advance on concerns lingering deflation and a strong
yen will encourage the central bank to continue liquidity
operations, boosting demand for fixed-income securities.  
 Ten-year yields dropped to a seven-year low as the yen
stayed near a seven-month high versus the dollar and economists
said a report next week will show  consumer prices  fell for a
16th month. Japan’s government bonds returned 0.2 percent so far
this month, adding to a gain of 2.2 percent between January and
June, the best first half since 2001, according to an index
compiled by Bank of America Corp’s Merrill Lynch & Co. unit.  
 “There is no clear sign that Japan will come out of
deflation, while a strong yen adds to such pressure,” said
 Takeshi Minami , chief economist in Tokyo at Norinchukin Research
Institute Ltd. “The Bank of Japan is nowhere near the exit from
monetary easing, allowing bond yields to stay low.”  
 The yield of the benchmark 10-year bond fell two basis
points this week to 1.065 percent in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading
Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The price of
the 1.1 percent bond due in June 2020 rose 0.179 to 100.313 yen.
Yields reached 1.045 percent on July 22, the lowest since August
2003. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Ten-year bond futures for September delivery gained 0.03
this week to 141.69 yen at the Tokyo Stock Exchange after
touching 142.08 on July 22, the most since August 2003.  
 CPI, Yen  
 Consumer prices  excluding fresh food slid 1.1 percent in
June from a year ago after dropping 1.2 percent in the previous
month, according to a Bloomberg survey ahead of the July 30 data.  
 The yen touched a seven-month high of 86.27 reached on July
16. The country’s large manufacturers expect the yen to average
90.16 per dollar in the six months to March 2011, according to
the Bank of Japan’s quarterly Tankan survey released on July 1.  
 “Japan is close to foreign-exchange intervention, with the
pain threshold probably between 80 to 85 per dollar,” wrote
 Richard Jerram , Asian economics head at Macquarie Securities Ltd.
in Tokyo. “We would expect the Bank of Japan to accommodate any
intervention with a parallel expansion of its balance sheet, but
it is far from clear that even this would be effective.”  
 Vice Finance Minister Motoshisa Ikeda told reporters in
Tokyo on July 22 that the government wants to “avoid excessive
gains in the yen.” The day before, Trade Minister  Masayuki Naoshima  said the currency’s gains pose a risk to growth.  
 Yield Gap  
 Bonds also gained on speculation the U.S. economic recovery
will slow as stimulus measures expire.  
 The Conference Board’s  confidence  index fell to 51.8 this
month from 52.9 in June, according to a survey before the July
27 data. The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc.’s
 business barometer  slid to 56.0 in July from 59.1 the previous
month, a separate survey showed before the July 30 report.  
 “Shrinking yield gaps between Japan and the U.S. stemming
from concerns about the U.S. economy leave the risk of a strong
yen, which will add to the deflationary pressure in Japan,”
said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd.
in Tokyo. “The BOJ may need to take more action if the yen
appreciates to beyond 85 per dollar, thereby giving impetus for
yields to stay low.”  
 The premium on U.S. two-year swap rates over same-maturity
instruments in Japan dropped to as little as 34 basis points
this week, the narrowest since 1993.  
 Bonds fell yesterday, ending a two-day advance, as signs
of a sustainable recovery in the world’s second-largest economy
and gains in Asian stocks cut demand for the safety of debt.  
 No Collapse  
 “The economy is not going to collapse, contrary to extreme
concerns that had engulfed the market recently,” said  Hirokata Kusaba , a senior economist in Tokyo at Mizuho Research Institute
Ltd., a unit of Japan’s second-largest banking group. “Bond
yields, which have fallen to current levels on such concerns,
are not sustainable.”  
 Japan’s  exports  rose for a seventh month, gaining 23.5
percent in June from a year earlier, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of economists ahead of the data on July 26.  Factory 
 output  increased for a fourth month, climbing 0.2 percent in
June from May, a separate survey showed before the July 30 data.  
 The Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 2.3 percent yesterday
and the MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares added 1.6 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 Yseki5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        