-- Japan Is Close to Intervening to Stem Yen's Rise, Macquarie's Jerram Says
-- Russell Ward
-- 2010-07-23T02:42:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/japan-is-close-to-intervening-to-stem-yen-s-rise-macquarie-s-jerram-says.html

          
          
             Japanese authorities are “close”
to stepping into the currency market to stem the yen’s advance
and aid the nation’s exporters, though such a move may have
limited effect, Macquarie Research said.  
 “Japan is close to foreign-exchange intervention, with the
pain threshold probably between 80 to 85 per dollar,” wrote
 Richard Jerram , head of Asian economics at Macquarie in Tokyo.
“We would expect the Bank of Japan to accommodate any
intervention with a parallel expansion of its balance sheet, but
it is far from clear that even this would be effective.”  
 Policy makers recognize the recovery is being led by
exporters who need the yen to be at “a level that maintains an
adequate level of competitiveness,” Jerram wrote in a report
dated yesterday. Officials including Trade Minister  Masayuki Naoshima  this week expressed concern at the currency’s gains,
while Bank of Japan Deputy Governor  Hirohide Yamaguchi  said it’s
too early to determine the impact on corporate sentiment.  
 The yen headed for a weekly loss against the dollar and the
euro on speculation Japanese policy makers will seek to weaken
the currency. It traded at 86.77 per dollar at 11:09 a.m. in
Tokyo. Japan’s currency has climbed 8.3 percent against the
dollar and 12 percent per euro in the past three months,
threatening to erode exporters’ profits earned abroad.  
 Jerram said there were two reasons why intervention
probably wouldn’t be effective “in anything other than the
short term.”  
 Different From Before  
 First, unlike when Japanese authorities most recently sold
the yen in 2003-04, other central banks have near-zero interest
rates and have been pumping cash into the financial system.  
 “More subjective perceptions on the likely duration” of
those monetary policies are becoming important, Jerram said.
“It is possible for the BOJ to intervene and expand its balance
sheet without necessarily changing those perceptions.”  
 Second, Japan’s real effective exchange rate is only
slightly below its long-term average, he said.  
 The International Monetary Fund said this month that the
yen’s current value is “consistent with medium-term
fundamentals,” and the effective exchange rate was “estimated
close to its medium-term equilibrium value” as of March.  
 “We want to avoid excessive gains in the yen,” Vice
Finance Minister  Motohisa Ikeda  told reporters yesterday,
referring to the government’s economic growth strategy released
last month. Trade Minister Naoshima said on July 21 that the
currency’s gains pose a risk to the export-led expansion.  
 In contrast, Yamaguchi said that while financial markets
have become more volatile, the central bank won’t be compelled
to act based on a specific exchange-rate level.  
 He said  business confidence  has “improved considerably”
and the threat of a double-dip recession has diminished since
the central bank unveiled a bank-loan program at an emergency
meeting on Dec. 1, days after the yen climbed to a 14-year high
of 84.83 against the dollar. It doubled the facility to 20
trillion yen ($230 billion) in March.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Russell Ward  in Tokyo at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        