-- Jolie Pricks Spider, Dons Elvira Wig; Russian Spy Secrets: Film
-- Rick Warner
-- 2010-07-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/jolie-pricks-spider-wears-elvira-wig-russian-spy-secrets-rick-warner.html

          
          
             In “ Salt ,”  Angelina Jolie  wears an
outlandish black wig she might have borrowed from Elvira, kicks
the tar out of brawny security men, leaps onto moving trucks and
sticks a needle into a spider.  
 Ostensibly about Russian spies planning to unleash a
crippling attack on the U.S.,  Phillip Noyce ’s supercharged,
nonsensical thriller showcases the world’s most famous actress
in another turn as an action star.  
 Jolie played an assassin in “Mr. & Mrs. Smith” and
“Wanted” and a female Indiana Jones in the “Tomb Raider”
movies. Here she’s a combination of  Bruce Lee , Jason Bourne and
James Bond in a part  Tom Cruise  was originally supposed to play.
Cruise backed out and the role was rewritten for Jolie -- maybe
the most notable sex change since tennis player Richard Raskind
became  Renee Richards .  
 The movie is timely, coming out two weeks after a highly
publicized spy swap between the U.S. and Russia. But timing, as
we know, isn’t everything.  
 Jolie plays Evelyn Salt, a married CIA officer accused by a
Russian defector of being a Russian spy. She flees from her CIA
colleagues, including her boss ( Liev Schreiber ) and her main
pursuer ( Chiwetel Ejiofor ), and spends the rest of the movie
trying to prove her innocence. But her actions, many of which
result in dead bodies, cast doubt on her motives.  
 ‘Day X’  
 While it’s fun watching a sex goddess turn into a killing
machine, the plot -- a network of Russian spies entrenched in
the U.S. for decades suddenly surfaces for a “Day X” assault
on the country -- is riddled with holes.  
 For instance, why does the defector point his finger at
Salt? And why doesn’t Russia launch an all-out attack on the
U.S., along with the internal sabotage? Even after all the
twists and turns, the answers aren’t completely clear.  
 Another glaring flaw: Anyone with half a brain will figure
out who the major bad guy is long before his secret is revealed.  
 “Who is Salt?” the film’s poster asks. A better question
would be, “What the heck is going on here?”  
 “Salt,” from Columbia Pictures, is playing across the
U.S. Rating: **  
 ‘Farewell’  
 “Farewell,” based on the true story of a KGB colonel who
gave top secrets to a French businessman working in Russia in
the early 1980s, is a much better spy picture.  
 This riveting drama features intelligent, sympathetic lead
characters and masterful storytelling by French director
Christian Carion.  
 The KGB officer, disillusioned with the Communist system
under  Leonid Brezhnev , hands over documents that include the
names of dozens of Soviet spies in the U.S. and other Western
countries.  Ronald Reagan , who was president at the time, called
it “one of the most important espionage cases of the 20th
century.”  
 Carion slowly builds the suspense as Grigoriev ( Emir Kusturica ) feeds highly sensitive information to Pierre
(Guillaume Canet), an unassuming Frenchman acting as a middleman
in the spy game.  
 At first Grigoriev treats Pierre with disdain, viewing him
an “amateur” who’s in over his head. But Grigoriev, a cultured
man who fancies French poetry and Champagne, comes to trust the
Frenchman who is putting his wife and children at risk by merely
meeting with the turncoat.  
 Reagan Imitation  
 When Grigoriev clandestinely photographs top-secret
documents in his boss’s office and Pierre is stopped at the
Finnish border while trying to escape Russia with his family,
the tension is palpable. Carion lets the scenes play out in real
time, eschewing the kind of rapid-fire editing that spoils
similar moments in other movies.  
 Kusturica and Canet, both accomplished directors as well as
actors, underscore the human connection between their characters
rather than the political one.  Fred Ward  does a passable Reagan
imitation, while  Willem Dafoe  plays a cynical CIA agent.  
 I won’t tell you what happened to Pierre and Grigoriev.
Secrets, after all, are what the film is all about.  
 “Farewell,” from NeoClassics Films, is playing in New
York and Los Angeles. Rating: ***1/2  

 

What the Stars Mean:

****          Excellent
***           Good
**            Average
*             Poor
(No stars)    Worthless
 
 ( Rick Warner  is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Angelina Jolie  
                       
                         
                           K.C. Bailey/Columbia Pictures via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Angelina Jolie in "Salt." Jolie stars in her new film as CIA officer Evelyn Salt, on the run after she is accused of espionage. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Angelina Jolie in "Salt." Jolie stars in her new film as CIA officer Evelyn Salt, on the run after she is accused of espionage. Photographer: K.C. Bailey/Columbia Pictures via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Actors Chiwetel Ejiofor, left, and Liev Schreiber in "Salt." Ejiofor, as agent Peabody, and Schreiber, as agent Ted Winters, pursue fellow CIA officer Evelyn Salt (Angelina Jolie), who is accused of espionage. Photographer: Andrew Schwartz/Columbia Pictures via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Actors Ingeborga Dapkunaite and Emir Kusturica in "Farewell." The film opens in New York on July 23, 2010. Source: Neoclassics Films via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Actors Guillaume Canet, left, and Emir Kusturica in "Farewell." In the film, Colonel Grigoriev (Kusturica) passes KGB documents to Pierre (Canet). Source: Neoclassics Films via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
