-- Kerry Says Democrats May Take Up Broad Climate Legislation After Election
-- Viola Gienger
-- 2010-07-23T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/kerry-says-democrats-may-take-up-broad-climate-legislation-after-election.html

          
          
             U.S. Senator  John Kerry  said
Democrats may take up his comprehensive climate-change bill in a
lame-duck session after the November elections, while calling on
President  Barack Obama  to escalate his advocacy for the measure.  
 Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  yesterday introduced a
more limited energy bill that doesn’t include a cap on
greenhouse gas emissions, citing the lack of support for a
broader bill.  
 The bigger measure “is not dead,” Kerry, a Massachusetts
Democrat, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital With  Al Hunt ” airing this weekend. “If it
is after the election, it may well be that some members are free
and liberated and feeling that they can take a risk or do
something.”  
 Kerry, who co-authored the Senate climate measure with
Senator  Joe Lieberman , a Connecticut independent, urged Obama to
lobby for the bill in private meetings with undecided senators
and at public events.  
 “People have to know it really counts,” said Kerry, 66.  
 On the war in Afghanistan, Kerry, the chairman of the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said President  Hamid Karzai ’s government must make more progress toward building a
stable government.  
 “I am disappointed that not enough of the reform agenda
has been implemented in Afghanistan,” said Kerry, who has close
relations with Karzai and has been more supportive of the Afghan
leader than some other U.S. officials. “And there is too much
corruption within the government itself at various levels.”  
 Afghan Troops  
 Last year, Kerry won praise from Obama for helping prod
Karzai to break a presidential election impasse. He said the
U.S. also needs to increase the number of Afghan fighters
participating in military operations and do a better job of
establishing civilian structures to take over government
functions in Afghanistan.  
 The current policy, Kerry said, isn’t “fine-tuned
enough.”  
 On climate legislation, Kerry said Democrats have “well
over 50” votes for a cap-and-trade program that requires power
plants to buy and sell carbon-dioxide pollution rights. At least
five Democrats from rural and Rust Belt states say they won’t
support the plan and no Republican supports the bill, which will
need 60 votes to pass the Senate.  
 “There is basically sort of a political shutdown going on
here in Washington,” Kerry said.  
 Scaled-Back Legislation  
 The scaled-back legislation introduced by Reid mandates new
offshore oil and gas drilling regulations, energy-efficiency
programs and incentives for natural-gas-fueled vehicles. The
bill will also increase the $75 million liability cap for
companies that cause oil spills.  
 Legislation passed by the Senate Environment and Public
Works Committee in June would eliminate the cap entirely, while
Republican proposals would double the current cap to $150
million or expose a company to damages equal to the last four
quarters of its profits.  
 Kerry said the Senate is more likely to raise the cap than
eliminate it entirely.  
 “We ought to find out what the political market here and
the Senate will bear and get to a realistic figure,” he said.  
 In his foreign-affairs role, Kerry is shepherding Senate
ratification of Obama’s treaty with Russia to further cut each
nation’s nuclear arsenal, an agreement that has drawn opposition
from Republicans.  
 The senator said he would help Republicans get some of the
assurances they’re looking for from the administration, such as
pledges on adequately maintaining the country’s existing
stockpile.  
 “I believe we will pass it this year,” Kerry said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lisa Lerer  in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Senator John Kerry Global Climate Change  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Senator John Kerry, a Democrat from Massachusetts. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Senator John Kerry, a Democrat from Massachusetts.  Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Senator John Kerry, a Massachusetts Democrat, says his comprehensive climate-change bill is "not dead" after Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid introduced a more limited energy bill that doesn't include a cap on greenhouse gas emissions.
     Kerry spoke in an interview on Bloomberg Television's "Political Capital With Al Hunt" airing this weekend. Hunt discusses the Kerry interview and new House ethics charges against U.S. Representative Charles Rangel on "InBusiness With Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
