-- New York Fed Appoints Dahlgren as Top Bank Supervisor to Succeed Rutledge
-- Caroline Salas
-- 2010-07-23T16:54:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/new-york-fed-appoints-dahlgren-as-top-bank-supervisor-to-succeed-rutledge.html

          
          
             Sarah Dahlgren , who manages assets
acquired by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York during the
financial crisis, will become its top bank supervisor after
the regulatory overhaul enacted this week expanded the central
bank’s authority.  
 Dahlgren, 46, will oversee firms including JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. when she takes over on Jan. 1
to succeed  William Rutledge , who is retiring. Under the
legislation signed by President  Barack Obama , the New York Fed
will also have responsibility for non-bank financial firms in
its district that might pose a risk to the system.  
 “We are determined to apply the lessons of the crisis in a
way that strengthens our supervision and oversight and ensures
we have a sound and well-functioning financial system,” New
York Fed President  William Dudley  said in a statement today.
“Sarah is a proven leader who has been battle-tested in the
crisis.”  
 Dahlgren has run the district bank’s Special Investments
Management Group since it was formed in January to oversee the
Fed’s loans to New-York based insurer American International
Group Inc. and assets acquired in the rescue of Bear Stearns
Cos. Dahlgren, a native of Alaska, has run the AIG
“relationship team” since September 2008.  
 In September she will transfer to the Bank Supervision
Group that has been headed by  Rutledge , 61, since 1999. She has
also been responsible for the bank’s credit-risk management,
relationship management in the bank supervision group and the
department’s information technology and payments systems exam
programs.  
 Native of Alaska  
 Dahlgren brings “broader experience” to the post, said
former Atlanta Fed research director  Robert Eisenbeis , now chief
monetary economist at Cumberland Advisors Inc. in Atlanta.  
 The Dodd-Frank financial overhaul bill “significantly
expands the scope and reach of the Federal Reserve’s supervisory
functions, not only as it relates to systemically important
institutions but also as it relates to the payment system and
settlement and clearing systems,” Eisenbeis said.  
 The law, named after its principal authors, Connecticut
Senator  Christopher Dodd  and Massachusetts Representative  Barney Frank , gives the government new authority to unwind failing
financial firms that may threaten the system, imposes new rules
on derivatives markets and creates a consumer-protection agency
at the Fed to monitor everything from home loans to credit
cards.  
 Financial Stability  
 “The Federal Reserve’s mandate has been broadened to
ensure financial stability,” Dudley said. “This includes tough
curbs on excessive risk-taking, an expanded set of major
financial institutions subject to our supervision, and enhanced
oversight to guard against the build-up of systemic risk.”  
 Dahlgren managed a team of about 20 regulators monitoring
the AIG’s operations after the New York Fed saved the insurer in
September 2008. AIG owes $23.9 billion on a Fed credit line
after handing over stakes in two overseas life divisions that
paid down its debts by $25 billion.  
 Dahlgren was present at board meetings of AIG, according to
a person with knowledge of the gatherings. She objected to AIG
CEO Robert Benmosche’s threat to quit unless Chairman Harvey
Golub left at a June 25 meeting and called it inappropriate,
said the person. Golub left three weeks later, saying that
Benmosche had told him their relationship had become
“unsustainable.”  
 Dahlgren, who has a bachelor’s degree from Cornell
University and a master’s degree from Duke University, joined
the New York Fed in 1990 as a bank examiner. Before joining the
Fed, she directed policy for the substance abuse intervention
division at New York’s Rikers Island prison complex.  
 Roseann Stichnoth, a senior vice president in the New York
Fed’s Markets Group in charge of the Term Asset-Backed
Securities Loan Facility program, is being promoted to executive
vice president. Stichnoth, 54, will replace Dahlgren as head of
the Special Investments Management Group.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Sarah Dahlgren speaks during a Congressional Oversight Panel hearing on the financial assistance provided to American International Group Inc. under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) and other financial stability programs in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
