-- Nigerian Banks, Including Union, Rally as Funding Plan Boosts Confidence
-- Vincent Nwanma
-- 2010-07-23T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/nigerian-banks-including-union-rally-as-funding-plan-boosts-confidence.html

          
          
             Nigerian banks surged for a fourth
day as a pledge by companies and the central bank to provide 1.5
trillion naira ($10 billion) to help fund an entity that will
buy bad debts from lenders boosted sentiment.  
 Union Bank Plc  rose to a five-week high of 5.64 naira by
the 1 p.m. close in Lagos, the commercial capital.  Oceanic Bank
International Plc  climbed 4.9 percent to 1.95 naira, the highest
since May 11.  Afribank Plc  advanced for a fifth day, the longest
winning streak since April, rallying to 2.17 naira, the highest
in a month. The  Bloomberg NSE Banking Index  of the top 10
capitalized and most liquid lenders jumped 2.2 percent to
401.16, a five-week high.  
 Nigeria’s healthy banks will contribute 1 trillion naira
while the central bank will provide 500 billion to fund Asset
Management Corp. of Nigeria, or Amcon, which will take the toxic
assets off the balance sheets of banks, Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede,
chief executive officer of Lagos-based Access Bank, said in
Abuja on July 21.  
 “It is now a government-private sector partnership towards
resolving the banking crisis, which should boost investor
confidence,” Razaq Ahmed, an analyst with Meristem
Stockbrokers, said by phone from Lagos today.  
 The central bank sacked the chief executive officers of
eight of the country’s 24 lenders for their handling of a debt
crisis that arose after stock-market speculators failed to repay
bank loans after share prices slumped. The Central Bank of
Nigeria provided 620 billion naira to bail out the industry.  
 Total non-performing loans of the eight troubled lenders
are estimated at 2.2 trillion naira, Aig-Imoukhuede said.  
 About 1.5 trillion naira may be recovered, leaving a gap to
be met by Amcon, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vincent Nwanma  in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        