-- Northwest's `Systemic' Directives Compliance Lapses Escaped FAA, U.S. Says
-- John Hughes
-- 2010-07-23T17:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/northwest-air-s-systemic-compliance-lapses-escaped-regulator-u-s-says.html

          
          
             Northwest Airlines Corp., now part
of  Delta Air Lines Inc. , had a “systemic” failure to comply
with federal safety directives and regulators were lax in
pursuing enforcement, U.S. investigators found.  
 Northwest had a 10-year history of not following Federal
Aviation Administration directives, the Office of Special
Counsel said yesterday in a  letter  to President  Barack Obama .
Transportation Department investigators weren’t able to
determine if the airline had complied with more than 1,000
directives, Associate Special Counsel William Reukauf said.  
 The FAA “should have pursued enforcement action,” Reukauf
said. The FAA’s own inspectors “were reluctant to recommend
civil penalties because they believed the regional office was
too lenient,” he wrote.  
 The report renews criticisms the  FAA  was overly
collaborative with carriers in recent years. The agency came
under fire from lawmakers in 2008 for allowing Southwest
Airlines Co. to fly 46 planes without required inspections.  
 In Northwest’s case, the Transportation Department
inspector general found in 2009 that the FAA allowed the airline
to operate 61 Boeing Co. 757 aircraft for more than three months
without following a maintenance directive designed to limit the
possibility of a fuel-tank explosion, the letter said.  
 Suspensions Proposed  
 Delta spokesman  Anthony Black  said in an e-mail the report
is being reviewed. “As always, we will fully cooperate with the
government agencies to ensure our core values of safety, quality
and compliance are not compromised,” he said. Atlanta-based
Delta, the world’s largest carrier, bought Eagan, Minnesota-
based Northwest in 2008.  
 FAA spokeswoman  Laura Brown  said in an e-mail she couldn’t
immediately comment.  
 As a result of the investigation, the FAA has proposed
suspensions of 10 days and 5 days for two employees who helped
oversee Northwest, according to the letter.  
 Mark Lund, an FAA inspector who worked in the agency’s
Bloomington, Minnesota, office, filed a whistleblower complaint
with the Office of Special Counsel, which referred the matter to
the Transportation Department for an investigation in November
2008.  
 Investigators found that the agency’s failure to discover
14 instances of directive noncompliance in 2008 showed “serious
deficiencies in FAA’s regular oversight,” according to
Reukauf’s letter.  
 The FAA accepted 12 voluntary disclosures of noncompliance
in fiscal 2007 and 2008, thus exempting the carrier from
enforcement actions and possible fines, Reukauf said.  
 Regulators “should not have accepted the voluntary
disclosures, not only because it was contrary to FAA guidance,
but because of NWA’s history of noncompliance,” Reukauf said,
referring to Northwest.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Northwest Airlines Corp. airplane taxis at Ronald Reagan International Airport in Arlington, Virginia. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
