-- North Korea Warns of Nuclear Response to Naval Exercises
-- Bill Varner
-- 2010-07-23T22:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/north-korea-claims-innocence-over-sinking-of-south-s-ship-won-t-apologize.html

          
          
             North Korea said it would counter
U.S. and South Korean joint naval exercises with “nuclear
deterrence” after the Obama administration said the government
in Pyongyang shouldn’t take any provocative steps.  
 North Korea will “legitimately counter with their powerful
nuclear deterrence the largest-ever nuclear war exercises to be
staged by the U.S. and the South Korean puppet forces,” the
National Defense Commission said, according to the Korean
Central News Agency.  
 The maneuvers, which involve 20 vessels and 200 aircraft
from the U.S. and South Korea, pose a threat to the country’s
sovereignty and security, Ri Tong Il, an official with North
Korea’s delegation to the  Asean  Security Forum, told reporters
in Hanoi yesterday.  
 Ri’s comments came after North Korean Foreign Minister  Pak Ui Chun  sat in the same room with Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  in Hanoi for a security meeting of Asia’s largest
powers. Clinton condemned North Korea for being “on a campaign
of provocative, dangerous behavior,” urging  Kim Jong Il ’s
regime to change.  
 Still, the “door remains open for North Korea,” Clinton
later told reporters. “We are willing to meet with them,
willing to negotiate, to move toward normal relations” if North
Korea commits itself to giving up its nuclear weapons program,
she said.  
 U.S. State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said in
Washington yesterday that North Korea “would be better served
by reflecting on the current situation, not taking any further
aggressive actions or provocative steps.”  
 USS George Washington  
 The U.S. said this week it will intensify sanctions against
North Korea and conduct military exercises with South Korea in
waters surrounding the peninsula. The  USS George Washington , a
nuclear-powered carrier, and three destroyers called into South
Korean ports this week in a show of force.  
 “North Korea may very well go ahead with missile launches
or even a third nuclear test to show it won’t bend to U.S.
pressure,” said  Yang Moo Jin , a professor at the University of
North Korean Studies in Seoul. “North Korea must have sensed
that the U.S. and South Korea are after its regime’s collapse.”  
 Ri said the George Washington’s presence threatened
security on the peninsula, which has been divided for more than
half a century. Pak maintained the need for a peace treaty to
replace a cease-fire, signed in 1953, to guarantee the
peninsula’s security, Ri said.  
 “It’s no longer the 19th century with gunboat diplomacy,”
Ri said. “It is a new century and the Asian countries are in
need of peace and development.”  
 Cheonan Sinking  
 An international panel concluded that the March 26 sinking
of the corvette Cheonan was caused by a torpedo fired from a
North Korean mini-submarine. The United Nations Security Council
condemned the attack, which killed 46 sailors, without naming a
culprit.  
 The investigation’s results have been “fabricated,” Ri
said, adding that North Korea wouldn’t apologize for the
incident as demanded by South Korea.  
 “If anyone should apologize, it should be South Korea,
responsible for driving the situation on the Korean peninsula to
the brink of an explosion,” Ri said. “We won’t tolerate any
attempt to put the blame on us.”  
 North Korea’s economy has been battered by UN sanctions
limiting cross-border financial transactions, imposed after its
nuclear tests in 2006 and last year. North Korea is willing to
return to the so-called six-party talks on its nuclear weapons
program “on an equal footing,” Ri said, repeating demands that
the sanctions be removed.  
 Japan Role  
 The disarmament talks, also involving China, Japan, Russia,
South Korea and the U.S., haven’t convened since December 2008.
All members of that forum attended this week’s security meeting
in Vietnam.  
 Japan will send four naval officers to the drills, the
government’s top spokesman said today.  
 Four officers of Japan’s Maritime Self-Defense Force will
board a U.S. ship as observers for the joint military exercise
from tomorrow to July 28 in the sea between South Korea and
Japan, said  Yoshito Sengoku , chief cabinet secretary.  
 “It’s important to promote coordination among Japan, U.S.
and South Korea,” Sengoku told reporters in Tokyo.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Bomi Lim in Hanoi at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net ;
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Pak Ui Chun, North Korea's foreign minster, arrives at the 43rd Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Ministerialand related meetings at the airport in Hanoi, Vietnam. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
