-- Obama Arms-Trade Treaty Shift Spurs Progress in First UN Talks
-- Bill Varner
-- 2010-07-23T18:27:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/obama-s-global-weapons-trade-treaty-shift-spurs-progress-in-first-un-talks.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama ’s support for
a treaty to regulate the $55 billion-a-year trade in
conventional weapons has spurred broad agreement on the elements
of global regulation, diplomats said today.  
 “The principle of an arms trade treaty is now agreed by
all countries, even if some have reservations,” Eric Danon,
France’s envoy, said after two weeks of preliminary negotiations
ended at the  United Nations  in New York. “Trying to have a
comprehensive universal treaty in the arms trade is quite a new
step in the history of the world.”  
 The U.S. voted in October to support UN-sponsored treaty
talks, reversing President  George W. Bush ’s policy. Under Bush,
the U.S. was the only nation to oppose a 2006 UN resolution to
create an international treaty on the sale of small arms and
light weapons. The Bush administration argued that national
controls would be more effective.  
 The U.S. shift has contributed to consensus among the UN’s
192 member governments that a treaty is needed and that the
negotiations will be successful, according to Danon and Roberto
Garcia Moritan of Argentina, head of the talks.  
 “The evolution of all members, in particular of the main
arms producer, is always important,” Moritan said.  
 The U.S. trade in conventional weapons amounts to 40
percent of the global total, according to  Brian Wood ,
disarmament expert for London-based Amnesty International.  
 The Obama administration has also pursued reductions in
nuclear weapons this year. The U.S. signed an arms-reduction
treaty with Russia, pledged to limit potential use of atomic
weapons, won commitments from 46 nations to protect stockpiles
of uranium and plutonium, and reached agreement at the UN in May
on ways to strengthen the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.  
 ‘Substantive Ideas’  
 “The U.S. made clear last October our desire to see a
negotiation that would produce an effective Arms Trade Treaty as
a means of addressing many of the enduring global challenges
caused by unregulated arms,”  Don Mahley , who represented the
U.S., said in a statement. “We have been pleased with
discussions thus far, in which many countries have shown
willingness to present substantive ideas.”  
 The envisioned treaty would “establish the highest
possible international standards for the import, export and
transfer of conventional arms,” Moritan said in a draft outline
of a future accord. It would “prevent, combat and eradicate the
illicit transfer, production and brokering” of such weapons.  
 Consensus Emerges  
 Diplomats said the talks were noteworthy for the absence of
strong opposition by China, Egypt, Indonesia, Iran, Pakistan and
Russia. They have expressed some of the most serious concerns,
based largely on the issue of potential infringement of their
sovereignty.  
 “There is a common understanding that we need a treaty,”
Khodadad Seifi Pargou, Iran’s delegate to the talks, said.  
 Moritan’s text said conventional weapons contribute to
“armed conflict, serious violations of international human
rights law and international humanitarian law, the displacement
of people, transnational organized crime, terrorism and the
illicit trade in narcotics.”  
 Amnesty International , U.K.-based Oxfam and leaders of
dozens of arms-control advocacy groups released a statement
saying the talks showed that “a majority of states has clearly
recognized the need for the treaty.” The world is “one step
closer to a treaty that will make it harder for warmongers and
human rights abusers to obtain weapons,” the statement said.  
 The first round of talks will be followed by sessions in
February and July 2011, and February 2012, before the final
conference.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. President Barack Obama makes a statement in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington. Photographer: Ron Sachs/Pool via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
