-- Obama Cracks Down on For-Profit Colleges, Links Loans to Income
-- John Lauerman
-- 2010-07-23T09:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/obama-cracks-down-on-for-profit-colleges-links-u-s-student-aid-to-income.html

          
          
             The Obama administration released a
proposal that would tighten for-profit colleges’ access to
 federal student aid , threatening growth in the industry that
received $26.5 billion in U.S. funds last year.  
 The proposed rules released today by the U.S. Department of
Education would link U.S. student aid eligibility at  Apollo
Group  Inc.,  ITT Educational Services  Inc.,  Career Education 
Corp. and other education companies to former students’ salaries
and debt repayment rates. The rules may cut off access to
federal student grants and loans at about 5 percent of all for-
profit education programs, Secretary  Arne Duncan  said in a
telephone call with reporters yesterday.  
 Students earning two-year associates’ degrees at for-profit
colleges had an average student-loan debt of $14,000 in 2007-
2008, about twice that of students at nonprofit colleges, the
department said in a statement. While most education companies
provide valuable training and skills, high-cost education
programs that lead to low-wage jobs are harming students,
leaving them with hard-to-pay debts, Duncan said.  
 “We want to hit the ones at the bottom, those that simply
aren’t working for students,” Duncan said in the press
briefing. “The 5 percent would frankly be the bottom of the
barrel.”  
 Stocks Decline  
 Education companies have been hurt as investors have waited
for the Education Department to write its regulations. The
 Standard & Poor’s 1500 Education Services Sub-Industry Index ,
which tracks nine education companies, fell 13 percent over the
past 12 months as of yesterday’s close.  
 Apollo, the Phoenix-based operator of the University of
Phoenix and the biggest U.S. education company,  fell 32 percent 
over the past 12 months in Nasdaq Stock Market composite
trading. ITT Educational  slid  20 percent.  
 If the rules were in effect today, programs enrolling about
8 percent of the students at for-profit colleges nationwide
would lose eligibility, the Education Department said. There
were about 1.8 million students enrolled in education companies’
programs in 2008, according to a June 24 report from Iowa
Democratic Senator  Tom Harkin , chairman of the Senate Health,
Education, Labor and Pensions Committee.  
 Tuition Impact  
 The rules may hurt Carmel, Indiana-based ITT Educational,
Hoffman Estates, Illinois-based Career Education and Santa Ana,
California-based Corinthian Colleges Inc., because they may not
meet the repayment standard and they offer high-priced programs,
said  Trace Urdan , an analyst with Signal Hill Capital Group in
San Francisco. Expensive courses of study that lead to
relatively low-paying careers, such as those in criminal
justice, may begin to disappear, he said yesterday in a
telephone interview.  
 “You will see some programs being terminated,” Urdan
said. “No one’s going to be kicked out into the street, but
programs that are no longer profitable at contemplated prices
will be ended.”  
 Under the proposed rules, the Education Department would
monitor loan repayments and starting salaries among graduates of
for-profit colleges. To remain fully eligible for student loans,
education companies would have to show the agency that at least
45 percent of their former students are paying off their student
loans, or that graduates pay less than 8 percent of their total
income or less than a fifth of their “discretionary income” on
student loan payments.  
 Lose Eligibility  
 When a program’s repayment levels and debt-to-income ratios
both miss those targets, its access to federal student aid may
be restricted, the statement said. That may mean that the
program would have to limit enrollment growth or warn applicants
that the program’s graduates have high debt levels. About 55
percent of for-profit college programs would have to issue such
warnings if the proposed regulations were now in effect, the
statement said.  
 Companies would lose their eligibility for aid if less than
35 percent of former students are repaying and their educational
debt is at least 12 percent of their annual total income or 30
percent of discretionary income, the statement said. No more
than 5 percent of programs nationally will lose U.S. aid access
under the regulations during their first year, the department
said.  
 Average annual tuition at for-profit colleges was $14,000
in 2009, compared with $2,500 at community colleges, Harkin’s
report said.  
 Industry Reaction  
 Congressional staffers who were briefed on the proposed
rules said they expected the education industry to fight them.
The  Career College Association , a Washington-based industry
group, didn’t respond to telephone calls and e-mails requesting
comment. Apollo company officials declined to comment because
they hadn’t seen the new regulations.     “Apollo cautions
against policy with the potential for unintended consequences
that could restrict educational access, limit students’ choices
or unfairly disadvantage hundreds of thousands of historically
underserved students,”  Manny Rivera , a spokesman, said in an e-
mail.  
 Robert Jaffe, a spokesman for Corinthian,  Lauren Littlefield , a spokesman for ITT Educational and Jeff Leshay, a
spokesman for Career Education, didn’t immediately return
telephone calls seeking comment.  
 While the proposed rules are a step in the right direction
that may eliminate many abuses of the student financial aid
system, the government may have set the standard for loan
repayment too low, said  Barmak Nassirian , associate executive
director of the  American Association of Collegiate Registrars &
Admissions Officers  in Washington.  
 ‘Rampant Waste’  
 “I defy anyone to say that an institution with a 45
percent loan-repayment rate represents the gold standard,” he
said in a telephone interview. “This says something about how
rampant waste and fraud and abuse are in this sector.”  
 While the expectations for repayment appear low, the rules
appear to have some “real teeth” in them, said Pauline
Abernathy, who oversees policy and advocacy for the  Institute
for College Access and Success  in Washington. Her group will
urge the administration to strengthen the regulations in the 45-
day comment period that starts today.  
 “This regulation is plain common sense,” Harkin said in a
statement. “If a school can’t show that its students are
repaying their college debt and not defaulting, this is a sure
sign that the school is failing to prepare its students for
gainful employment, as the law requires.”  
 An earlier draft of the proposal said that starting
salaries would be estimated using data from the  U.S. Bureau of
Labor Statistics . The proposed rules instead call for the salary
data to come directly from graduating students’ Internal Revenue
Service filings, the Education Department said.  
 ‘Actual Wages’  
 “Therein lies the problem for the sector given that actual
wages are generally lower than the Bureau of Labor Statistics
data,” said Jarrell Price, an analyst with Height Analytics in
Washington who follows the for-profit education sector.
“There’s a lot of uncertainty about the income levels of
graduates of for profit colleges.”  
 Federal aid to for-profit colleges jumped to $26.5 billion
last year from $4.6 billion in 2000, according to the Education
Department. About 96 percent of students who graduated from for-
profit colleges in 2008 had taken out student loans, and 24
percent of that graduating class had more than $40,000 in U.S.
student loan debt, according to the June report from Harkin.  
 Taxpayers’ Right  
 “These schools -- and their investors -- benefit from
billions of dollars in subsidies from taxpayers, and in return,
taxpayers have a right to know that these programs are providing
solid preparation for a job,” Duncan said in the statement.
“The rules we’ve proposed today will help ensure that career
college and training programs use federal student aid to prepare
students for success.”  
 The government has been determining for-profit programs’
eligibility for student grants and loans in part by monitoring
default rates. Those rates underestimate the proportion of
students who don’t pay back loans on time, because many receive
postponements known as forbearances or deferments. The new rules
link a program’s eligibility for federal aid to the percentage
of former students who are repaying principal on their loans
three years after leaving school, the department said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Lauerman  in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. secretary of education Arne Duncan. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
