-- Mobius on Hold in Brazil as Petrobras Overwhelms Bulls Amid Soaring Growth
-- Michael Patterson
-- 2010-07-23T20:25:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/mobius-on-hold-in-brazil-as-petrobras-overwhelms-bulls-amid-soaring-growth.html

          
          
             The fastest economic growth since
1995 and the largest  tumble  in equity valuations among emerging
markets can’t persuade the world’s biggest investors that
Brazilian stocks are cheap.  
 Even Templeton Asset Management Ltd.’s  Mark Mobius  is
concerned a flood of shares led by  Petroleo Brasileiro SA ’s
planned $25 billion offering in September may limit gains after
the Bovespa index  dropped  4.1 percent this year. Baring Asset
Management expects increased government control over the economy
from  Dilma Rousseff , the chosen successor of President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva. Schroders Plc and Prudential Financial
Inc. say growth has peaked as interest rates rise.  
 Managers who oversee $1 trillion say it’s too early to add
to holdings in Brazil even after improving earnings prospects
and lower stock prices sent the Bovespa to 11.2 times  profit
estimates  from 14.3 at the start of the year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The decline is the biggest for the 21 markets
included in MSCI Inc.’s benchmark  index  for developing nations.  
 “What happened is the market ran ahead of itself and
outperformed, and it’s a natural correction,” Mobius, who
oversees about $34 billion as the Singapore-based chairman of
Templeton Asset Management, said in a July 14 phone interview.
Brazilian companies are “in search for money and that has a
natural depressing effect on the market,” he said.  
 Bovespa Retreat  
 The Bovespa’s retreat is the third-biggest among equity
benchmarks in major emerging markets after the 22 percent drop
in China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  and 6.4 percent retreat for
Taiwan’s Taiex Index through yesterday. The  MSCI All-Country
World Index  sank 4.6 percent on signs spending cuts by European
governments and Chinese efforts to curb real-estate speculation
will slow global growth.  
 Brazilian consumer and bank stocks fell from near-record
highs as the central bank raised its  benchmark rate  three times
this year while Brasilia-based  Banco do Brasil SA  sold 9.76
billion reais ($5.4 billion) of equity.  
 Petrobras, based in Rio de Janeiro, was the biggest drag on
the Bovespa. The state-controlled oil producer lost $48 billion
of market value, or 24 percent, on concern the government will
force the company to pay more than investors projected for crude
reserves as part of its share sale.  
 ‘Headwinds’  
 Brazilian stock valuations “probably have become more
attractive, but with interest rates and the Petrobras overhang,
investors may not be ready to get back so easily,” said  John Praveen , who helps oversee about $693 billion as the Newark, New
Jersey-based chief investment strategist at Prudential
International Investments Advisers LLC. “The market is facing a
lot of headwinds.”  
 The Bovespa gained 2 percent to 65,748.10 yesterday after
the central bank raised its benchmark interest rate by 0.5
percentage point, less than the 0.75 percentage point median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 51 economists, and policy
makers signaled they may stop increasing borrowing costs. The
Bovespa climbed 0.9 percent at the close of trading in Sao Paulo
at 4 p.m. New York time today.  
 At a price 11.2 times projected earnings for the next 12
months, the 65-stock Bovespa trades at a 35 percent discount to
India’s  Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index , which is  valued 
at 17.4 times, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Bovespa compares with 15  times  for the Shanghai Composite and 14
for Mexico’s IPC  Index . Russia’s  Micex  index trades at 7.2 times
estimated profit, the data show.  
 The biggest emerging-market stock fund managers cut their
Brazil holdings to a consensus “neutral” weighting relative to
the MSCI emerging index in May from “overweight” the previous
month, according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co. report citing EPFR
Global data.  
 Petrobras Stake  
 “I don’t think the time is right now that the market will
take off,” said  Eric Anderson , head of Latin American equities
at ING Asset Management in New York, which oversees about $66
billion in the region.  
 Investors may sell Brazilian  raw-materials  producers to buy
stock in the Petrobras offering, said Anderson, who is
“underweight” Brazil in his Latin America fund.  
 The government may take a bigger stake of oil industry
profits when lawmakers craft the nation’s new oil legislation
after the October elections, said  Geoffrey Pazzanese , a New
York-based money manager at Federated Investors, which oversees
about $330 billion.  
 Government Intervention  
 Petrobras, Brazil’s biggest  company  by market value,
delayed its share offering by two months to September, saying on
June 22 that the government needed more time to come up with the
price of oil reserves Petrobras will buy in exchange for stock.  
 The value of the oil will determine the size of the share
sale, potentially the biggest in the Western Hemisphere since at
least 1999, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Petrobras 
plans to use proceeds to help fund $224 billion of investment
through 2014.  
 “The overhang, uncertainty and lack of transparency with
regards to the upcoming capitalization of Petrobras” is making
investors cautious on Brazil, said  Deborah Medenica , the global
head of emerging-market equities at PineBridge Investments,
which has about $90 billion under management in New York and
holds a smaller percentage of its assets in Brazilian stocks
than the allocation of the MSCI emerging index.  
 Rousseff, Lula’s former cabinet chief, stepped down as
chairwoman for Petrobras in March to campaign for president. The
62-year-old may accelerate government intervention into business
started by Lula during the past year, said  Roberto Lampl , head
of Latin America equities at Baring Asset Management, which
oversees about $45 billion.  
 “We have an important presidential election and there is
uncertainty there,” Lampl said.  
 Tax Cuts  
 Rousseff vowed to cut tax rates and “continue changing
with more growth and social inclusion” when she was confirmed
as the presidential candidate of Lula’s Workers’ Party on June
13. Her main rival for the presidency is  Jose Serra , the former
Sao Paulo state governor. Rousseff and Serra tied in an Ibope
poll published July 3, with both candidates supported by 39
percent of voters polled.  
 Equity markets fell across the world this year on concern
debt-strapped European nations including Greece, Spain and
Portugal will struggle to finance their deficits. Gross domestic
product growth in China, Brazil’s biggest trade partner, eased
to 10.3 percent in the three months to the end of June from a
year earlier, less than an 11.9 percent increase in the first
quarter, the statistics bureau said on July 15.  
 ‘Price Fluctuations’  
 “We haven’t sold in Brazil, but we haven’t added
aggressively either,” said Mobius, who holds more stocks in the
country than in any other emerging market. “We have to live
with price fluctuations.”  
 Itau Unibanco Holding SA , Brazil’s biggest securities firm,
says stocks got too cheap and the Bovespa will surge 29 percent
by year-end. F&C Asset Management and Hermes Fund Managers Ltd.
have been adding this year, moving closer to weightings in
benchmark indexes.  Jeff Chowdhry , F&C’s London-based head of
emerging equities, said he purchased shares of Sao Paulo-based
Itau and Banco do Brasil, the biggest federally controlled
lender, this year on “attractive” prices. F&C manages more
than $150 billion.  
 Samir Patel  of Hermes, which oversees $2.5 billion in
emerging-market stocks, has been buying financial and
telecommunications companies and says the two leading
presidential candidates will probably be “positive” for Brazil
even if the market is “bumpy” during the campaign season. The
Bovespa retreated to a 3 1/2 year low before Lula was elected in
October 2002 on concern his administration would default on the
country’s debt, then  rallied  more than 70 percent over the next
12 months.  
 Peak Growth  
 Earnings growth is “peaking” and rising interest rates
will cool Brazilian consumer demand, said  Nicholas Field , an
emerging-market money manager in London at Schroders, which
oversees $255 billion.  
 Brazil’s economy expanded 8.95 percent in the first
quarter. Growth will end the year at 7.2 percent, the fastest
expansion since 1986, before slowing to 4.5 percent in 2011,
according to a July 19 central bank survey of economists.  
 Central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  will boost the
benchmark lending  rate  to 12 percent by year-end from 10.75
percent today, according to the survey. Traders expect the bank
to boost the rate to about 11.25 percent by then, according to
rates futures contracts.  
 “The Brazilian story is very impressive,” said  Stefan Hofer , an emerging markets equity strategist at Bank Julius Baer
& Co. in Zurich. “But rates will have to go up and this comes
at a time that’s a lot more politically sensitive.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Mark Mobius, chairman of Templeton Asset Management Ltd. Photographer: Munshi Ahmed/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Marcelo Salomon, chief Brazil economist at  Barclays in Sao Paulo, talks with Bloomberg's Scarlet Fu about the candidates vying to replace Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva as president of Brazil. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
