-- Toddler-Killer Venables Gets 2-Year Sentence for U.K. Child-Porn Charges
-- James Lumley
-- 2010-07-23T14:48:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/toddler-killer-venables-pleads-guilty-in-london-to-child-porn-charges.html

          
          
             Jon Venables , one of the killers of
Liverpool toddler James Bulger, was sentenced to two years in
jail after pleading guilty to having child pornography.  
 Venables, 27, gave his plea via video link from prison to
Judge  David Bean  at a hearing today in London’s Old Bailey
criminal court.  
 Police discovered scores of indecent photographs of
children when they examined his computer in February, prosecutor
Louis Mably said. The images ranged in seriousness from
“provocative posing” to the anal rape of an 8-year-old girl,
he said.  
 In 1993, when he was 10, Venables was convicted with
another boy of the abduction and murder of 2-year-old  James Bulger  in Merseyside, northwest England. He was imprisoned at an
institution for young offenders until his release in 2001. The
case resulted in public protests and his identity was changed to
protect him.  
 The case caused controversy in the U.K. earlier this year
when the government refused to give any public explanation about
why Venables was returned to prison. At a March 4 press
conference, the then Prime Minister  Gordon Brown  said that,
while he “understood the public outrage” caused by the case,
releasing information might prejudice legal proceedings.  
 Venables felt “shame and remorse” for what he had done,
defense lawyer Ed Fitzgerald said.  
 ‘Drink and Drugs’  
 At the time of the offenses he had “a real problem with
drink and drugs,” Fitzgerald said. “In no sense was he in
control of his life.”  
 Reporting restrictions put in place for the case to protect
Venables’ identity prevent the media from describing his
appearance or using his new name. He is currently  in prison  for
violating the terms of his 2001 release.  
 “Accessing child pornography is not a victimless crime,
since the people who do it encourage the exploitation of the
children,” Bean said in issuing the sentence. “Even
downloading such images, let alone distributing them, is in
itself a form of child abuse.”  
 Jamie Bulger’s mother Denise Fergus said she thought the
sentence Venables received was too lenient.  
 “Once again we have had to sit through proceedings where
justice has not been done,” she said in a statement read by her
spokesman Chris Johnson. “These are very serious offenses and
two years is simply not enough,” the statement said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        