-- Oil Drops From 11-Week High on Speculation Prices Rose Too Fast
-- Mark Shenk
-- 2010-07-23T20:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/oil-drops-from-11-week-high-on-speculation-prices-rose-too-fast.html

          
          
             Crude oil fell from an 11-week high
on speculation that Tropical Storm Bonnie won’t be strong enough
to damage production platforms in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 Oil slipped 0.4 percent after the  National Hurricane Center 
said that slight strengthening is possible when Bonnie reaches
the Gulf tomorrow. Prices surged this week as global stock
markets rallied on signals that economic growth will accelerate.  
 “You had such a big lift yesterday that it makes sense to
give back some of it,” said  Bill O’Grady , chief market
strategist at Confluence Investment Management in St. Louis.
“One reason we ended so strong yesterday was the tropical
storm. The path is threatening but it probably will only be a
tropical storm, and not much of one.”  
 Crude for September delivery fell 32 cents to settle at
$78.98 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Yesterday,
the contract rose to $79.30, the highest settlement since May 5,
as stock markets advanced. September oil increased 3.4 percent
this week.  
 Brent crude for September settlement on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange declined 37 cents, or 0.5 percent,
to end the session at $77.45 a barrel.  
 An Air Force Reserve Hurricane Hunter plane found signs
that Bonnie’s circulation is becoming less defined. “If this
trend continues it is possible for Bonnie to degenerate,”
according to a hurricane center forecast discussion.  
 Storm Outlook  
 “The storm probably won’t turn into anything,” said  Adam Sieminski , chief energy economist at Deutsche Bank AG in
Washington. “After surviving the big hurricanes of the last
five years, the remaining production platforms will be harder to
knock out.”  
 All platforms in the Gulf were shut after hurricanes
Katrina and Rita battered the region in 2005. The Gulf accounts
for about 31 percent of U.S. oil output and 10 percent of its
natural-gas production, according to the Energy Department. The
coast along Louisiana and Texas is home to 42 percent of U.S.
refining capacity.  
 Tropical Storm Bonnie has idled about 28 percent of crude-
oil production in the Gulf of Mexico and 10 percent of natural-
gas output, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation
and Enforcement said today in a statement on its website.  
 “The important thing to keep in mind is that production
won’t be shut in for any length of time,” Sieminski said.  
 BP Plc said the storm’s high seas made it necessary to move
ships working on the relief wells that will be used to kill the
wrecked Macondo well in the Gulf, site of the worst oil spill in
U.S. history. The delay will set back completion of the work to
plug the well to the end of August.  
 Equity Market  
 Oil moved in the opposite direction of the Dow Jones
Industrial Average for the first time in seven sessions. The Dow
erased its 2010 loss as reports that Genzyme Corp. has been
approached with a takeover offer spurred optimism that a rebound
in mergers and acquisitions is accelerating.  
 The Dow gained 0.9 percent to 10,418.25 and the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.6 percent to 1,100.73 at 2:30 p.m.  
 “It’s interesting that we are trailing the S&P 500
today,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures
Perspective in New York. “We’ve been in the habit of
correlating with the S&P 500 lately, which doesn’t make a lot of
sense. Petroleum markets are quite different from equities and
have their own fundamentals.”  
 Crude oil may fall next week on speculation that U.S.
inventories will climb as imports increase, a Bloomberg News
survey showed. Thirteen of 34 analysts, or 38 percent, forecast
crude oil will decline through July 30. Eleven respondents, or
32 percent, predicted that futures will be little changed and 10
saw an increase.  
 Oil volume on the Nymex was 346,568 contracts as of 3:07
p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 576,007 contracts yesterday, 20
percent below the average of the past three months. Open
interest was 1.24 million contracts.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        