-- Montreal Port Shipping Companies and Locked-Out Workers End Labor Dispute
-- Frederic Tomesco
-- 2010-07-23T15:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/montreal-shippers-longshoremen-end-labor-dispute-agree-to-reopen-port.html

          
          
             Shipping companies and workers at
the Port of Montreal agreed to reopen the port tomorrow, ending
a six-day lockout that closed Canada’s second-biggest terminal.  
 The port will resume operations at 8 a.m. local time, the
Maritime Employers Association said in a  statement . Port workers
today approved the agreement unanimously, Sébastien Goulet, a
spokesman for the  Canadian Union of Public Employees , said in a
telephone interview.  
 Longshoremen, who have been without a labor agreement since
Dec. 31, 2008, were locked out July 18. Mediators appointed by
Canada’s federal government supervised talks between the parties
yesterday in Montreal. The two sides agreed to resume contract
talks on July 26.  
 The Port of Montreal is Canada’s second-largest after
 Vancouver . It handled 1.25 million 20-foot equivalent units, or
containers, last year, according to its  website . The port also
handles liquid bulk including gasoline and jet fuel, and dry
bulk such as iron ore and raw sugar. The lockout was costing
member companies of the employers association about C$800,000
($769,000) weekly, Gilles Corriveau, a spokesman for the group,
has said.  
 Lockout Imposed  
 Maritime employers imposed the lockout after union
officials introduced pressure tactics such as extended lunch
breaks and the refusal to work overtime. Longshoremen were told
to start refusing overtime starting July 9 at 11:59 p.m.,
according to a  note to workers  posted on the union’s website.  
 Both parties still need to reach a new labor accord. The
conflict that led to the lockout involves the number of workers
guaranteed full-time pay even if they aren’t called in to work,
Corriveau said, adding that the cost of the program has doubled
in the past five years. Shippers want to reduce the number by
about 13 percent, he said.  
 Montreal serves as a gateway for imports and exports of
goods between North America and Europe. Politicians in
Newfoundland, which depends on Montreal for food products and
construction materials, had expressed  concern  about the impact
of a lengthy shutdown on the province’s economy.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Frederic Tomesco  in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        