-- Orange Juice Rises to Two-Week High on Florida Storm Outlook; Cotton Gains
-- Jennifer A. Johnson
-- 2010-07-23T20:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/orange-juice-rises-to-two-week-high-on-florida-storm-outlook-cotton-gains.html

          
          
             Orange-juice futures rose to a two-
week high on speculation that a tropical storm heading toward
Florida will damage citrus groves in the state, the world’s
second-largest producer. Cotton rose to a two-week high.  
 Tropical Storm Bonnie may produce heavy rain across the
extreme southern end of Florida’s orange-growing region, said
 Chris Hyde , a meteorologist at MDA EarthSat Weather Inc. in
Rockville, Maryland. Prices have jumped 52 percent in the past
year as farmers harvested an estimated 18 percent fewer oranges
than the previous season.  
 The threat of storm damage is “definitely why we are
seeing prices pick up,” said  Carlos Sanchez , an associate
director of research at CPM Group in New York, a commodities
consulting firm. “Even strong wind has the potential to damage
the orange crop.”  
 Orange juice for September delivery rose 1.6 cents, or 1.1
percent, to $1.4565 a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York,
after touching $1.4575, the highest level for a most-active
contract since July 7. The commodity gained for a sixth straight
day, the longest rally since January, and 3.9 percent for the
week.  
 “It’s very unusual for a tropical storm to hit Florida at
this time of year,” MDA EarthSat Weather’s Hyde said. “Storms
normally don’t start until August or September.” Bonnie is the
second named storm of the Atlantic hurricane season, which lasts
through November.  
 The orange harvest in Florida this year, estimated at 133.6
million boxes, will be the  second-smallest  in two decades, the
U.S. Department of Agriculture said on July 9. A box of oranges
weighs 90 pounds, or 41 kilograms.  
 Storm Warnings  
 Tropical storm warnings are posted along the northern coast
of the Gulf of Mexico from Destin, Florida, to Morgan City,
Louisiana, and remain in effect for the northwestern Bahamas, as
well as Florida’s east coast from Deerfield Beach to the Keys,
the National Hurricane Center said. A warning means that
tropical-storm conditions are expected within 36 hours.  
 In another New York market, cotton futures rose on signs
that overseas demand is eroding inventories in the U.S., the
world’s largest exporter.  
 Stockpiles monitored by ICE dropped to 55,389 bales
yesterday, down 27 percent from July 21 and 95 percent since
June 2, exchange  data  show. China, the biggest user, will
consume 47.5 million bales for the marketing year ending July
31, up 8 percent from a year earlier, according to the USDA.  
 “Mills have been scurrying to find cotton, which can be
darn hard to find this time of year,” said  Sharon Johnson , a
senior analyst at First Capitol Group LLC in Atlanta. Chinese
mills are “leading the parade” for cotton imports, she said.  
 Cotton futures for December delivery rose 0.63 cent, or 0.8
percent, to 75.34 cents a pound, after touching 75.54 cents, the
highest price for the most-active contract since July 6. For the
week, cotton gained 1.9 percent, the first increase in five
weeks.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer A. Johnson  in Chicago at 
 Jjohnson133@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        