-- Mortgage Investors With $500 Billion Urge End of Practices, Lawyer Says
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-07-23T19:25:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/mortgage-investors-with-500-billion-urge-end-of-practices-lawyer-says.html

          
          
             Investors owning about a third of
U.S.  mortgage  securities without government backing are urging
bond trustees to help end practices that damage their holdings,
according to Dallas lawyer  Talcott Franklin .  
 Bondholders want more bad loans to be repurchased by
lenders and seek changes in how troubled debt is dealt with,
said Franklin, whose firm sent letters to trustees on the
group’s behalf this week detailing the size of its holdings and
explaining investor concerns.  
 “We’re telling them, ‘Hey, we’re here,’ and we’re offering
to cooperate with them,” Franklin, 45, a former partner at
Washington-based Patton Boggs LLP, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “We’re hoping it’s a fresh start for everybody. If
you want to help, now’s the time to do it.”  
 The letters show investors in the $1.5 trillion market, who
have yet to recover from the credit crisis, are escalating
efforts to minimize their losses. BlackRock Inc., the world’s
largest asset manager, and Fortress Investment Group Inc., the
buyout and hedge-fund investment firm co-founded by  Wesley Edens , are among investors that have complained about the
handling of loans backing mortgage securities during
conferences, congressional testimony and interviews.  
 “This is a turning point in favor of investors,” said
 Josh Rosner , an analyst at independent research firm Graham
Fisher & Co. in New York who predicted the collapse of the
market in 2007. “The trustees and servicers probably never
expected 25 percent of deals to come together.”  
 Passing Payments  
 Government-supported  Fannie Mae  said in its annual report
that it “was working to enforce investor rights” on its
holdings of so-called non-agency mortgage securities.  
 Mortgage securities have been among the largest sources of
the $1.8 trillion of writedowns and credit losses suffered by
the world’s biggest financial companies since the start of 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Mortgage-bond trustees are responsible for passing payments
collected from borrowers to investors, handling suggested
amendments to transaction terms and overseeing loan servicers,
which manage the underlying loans.  
 Franklin declined to identify the trustees or members of
his group which is using what he calls an  RMBS Investor Clearing
House . The vehicle allows investors to pool holdings to protect
their interests without disclosing their holdings to each other,
he said.  
 Reuters reported on the letters earlier this week.  
 Loan servicers are requiring too few home loans to be
repurchased, partly because their companies would be taking back
the debt, according to the letters. Lenders can be required to
buy back securitized mortgages if there were misrepresentations
about their quality.  
 Sufficient Resources  
 “It’s widely known in the industry that reps and
warranties have not been well-enforced by servicers or
trustees,” said  Scott Simon , the head of mortgage bonds at
Newport Beach, California-based Pacific Investment Management
Co., manager of the world’s biggest bond fund. He declined to
say if Pimco is part of Franklin’s group.  
 The bondholders also are concerned that lenders may not be
devoting sufficient resources toward renegotiating debt for
troubled borrowers, the letters said. New York-based BlackRock
and Pimco have also complained about conflicts of interest
related to banks owning home-equity loans on properties that
have first mortgages held by securities they service.  
 Investors who are sharing information and coordinating
through Talcott Franklin PC own pieces of 6,000 home-loan
securities transactions, the lawyer said. They own bonds giving
them 25 percent of “voting rights” in about 2,300 deals, 50
percent in more than 900, and 66 percent in more than 450,
Franklin said.  
 Force Actions  
 Those levels exceed thresholds that allow investors to
force actions such as declaring loan servicers in default of
their contracts, requiring them to share loan files, creating
changes to deal terms and replacing trustees, with the details
varying by the deal, Franklin said.  
 U.S. Bancorp,  Deutsche Bank AG  and Bank of New York Mellon
Corp. signed on as trustees for the most new U.S. securitized
debt in 2005 and 2006 as sales of home-loan securities without
government-backed guarantees peaked at $1.2 trillion each year,
according to newsletters  Asset -Backed Alert and Inside  Mortgage 
Finance.  
 Deutsche Bank’s trustee business hasn’t received a letter,
John Gallagher, a spokesman for the Frankfurt-based company,
said, declining to comment further. Kevin Heine, a spokesman for
 Bank of New York , declined to comment. Steve Dale, a spokesman
for Minneapolis-based U.S. Bancorp, didn’t return an e-mail
message requesting comment.  
 No Comments  
 Bank of America Corp.,  Wells Fargo & Co. , JPMorgan Chase &
Co., and Citigroup Inc. are the biggest U.S. home-mortgage
servicers, managing almost 70 percent of outstanding loans,
according to newsletter National Mortgage News.  
 Spokesmen for the banks, which have said they have been
acting in investors’ best interests as required by their
contracts, either declined to immediately comment or didn’t
return e-mail messages. Spokesmen for BlackRock, Washington-
based Fannie Mae and Fortress of New York either declined to
immediately comment or didn’t return e-mail messages.  
 ‘Servicer Conflicts’  
 Franklin, co-author of the “ Mortgage and Asset-Backed
Securities Litigation Handbook ,” started his firm earlier this
year, after resigning as a partner at Patton Boggs, Washington’s
biggest lobbying law firm. His firm has been allowing investors
to retain other lawyers, he said.  
 “Tal and I worked very closely together on the investor
issues when the Mortgage Investors Coalition was formed last
year to focus on the public policy issues on Capitol Hill,”
said  Micah Green , a Patton Boggs partner and former head of the
Bond Market Association.  
 That group was started to lobby against a legal “safe
harbor” that Congress created for servicers changing debt under
a federal program’s guidelines, and then tried to influence the
modification plan’s form.  
 Franklin said “a common sentiment” among investors has
been that trustees haven’t been helpful in protecting their
interests. The group’s letter said trustees had duties under
their contracts, and could be liable where actions, such as
inappropriate  foreclosures , were performed in their names.  
 “Whether they’ll take us up on this, I don’t know,”
Franklin said. “We’ve got a lot of options at our disposal and
we are serious about seeing improvements and we’ll go shelf by
shelf and deal by deal to exercise those options.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        