-- Most U.S. States Cut Jobs as Tax Collections Erode, Study Says
-- William Selway
-- 2010-07-23T19:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/most-u-s-states-cut-jobs-as-tax-collections-erode-rockefeller-study-says.html

          
          
             Most U.S. states cut government jobs
last quarter as cities, counties and public agencies coped with
falling tax revenue in the wake of the recession, a study found.  
 State government payrolls dropped in 28 states in April
through June, compared with the same period a year earlier,
while employment in  local government  fell in 30 states,
according to an analysis released today by the  Nelson A.
Rockefeller Institute of Government  in Albany, New York.  
 State payrolls have fallen 0.8 percent and local government
employment has dropped 1.4 percent since their peak in mid-2008
after the recession began, according to the institute. Those
declines are less than the 6.8 percent drop in private-sector
jobs, according to the institute.  
 “This is broadly consistent with past recessions, in
which state and local government employment has been far more
stable than private sector employment,”  Donald Boyd  and  Lucy Dadayan  wrote in the report. “The state and local government
declines, while widespread, are nowhere near as large or as
numerous as the declines in private sector employment.”  
 While the economy has been expanding and businesses have
begun adding jobs, state and local government officials are
still struggling to erase budget shortfalls that followed the
longest recession since the Great Depression. Those deficits
emerged as tax revenue fell and they faced increase demand for
services, such as Medicaid, by unemployed residents.  
 Budget Deficits  
 States have projected  total budget deficits  of $127 billion
through 2012, according to a report last month by the National
Governors Association and the National Association of State
Budget Officers. At the  city level , spending cuts are expected
to accelerate if taxes and fees aren’t raised, according to a
majority of officials surveyed by the National League of Cities.  
 The cutbacks have weighed on the economy. State and local
 government spending  fell at an annual pace of 3.8 percent during
the first three months of this year, the steepest drop since the
onset of the recession, and has dropped in all but one quarter
since October 2008, according to the U.S. Department of
Commerce.  
 Jan Hatzius , Goldman Sachs Group Inc. chief U.S. economist,
said in a research note this week that cutbacks in state and
local governments will shave 0.75 percentage point off the
annualized pace of real growth in U.S. gross domestic product.  
 Hawaii, Nevada  
 Among those states that cut jobs, public payrolls shrank
1.9 percent in New York, 1.8 percent in California and 1.3
percent in Illinois last quarter, according to the Rockefeller
Institute’s analysis of U.S. Labor Department data. Hawaii and
Nevada led the declines with drops of 3.8 percent and 3.6
percent, respectively. Employment rose in states including New
Jersey, Massachusetts and Texas.  
 The disappearance of some federal aid, which helped local
governments since last year, may accelerate jobs cuts to
teachers, according to the Rockefeller Institute. The U.S.
Senate yesterday, when it approved funding for the war in
Afghanistan, didn’t include $10 billion in state aid sought by
the House to prevent the dismissal of an estimated 140,000
teachers.  
 “With states continuing to face harsh fiscal realities,
declines in education employment are likely just beginning,”
the Rockefeller researchers wrote.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        