-- Palm Oil Headed for Second Weekly Gain on Demand, Weather Threat to Output
-- Thomas Kutty Abraham
-- 2010-07-23T08:41:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/palm-oil-headed-for-second-weekly-gain-on-demand-weather-threat-to-output.html

          
          
             Palm oil was headed for the second
straight weekly gain on speculation demand may increase among
Asian nations and as weather threatens to disrupt output in the
biggest producers of the tropical commodity.  
 October-delivery futures climbed as much as 0.6 percent to
2,535 ringgit ($784) metric a ton on the Malaysia Derivatives
Exchange, the highest price since May 10. The most-active
contract traded at 2,522 ringgit at 4:15 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur.
Prices jumped 2.5 percent yesterday, the most in more than three
months, taking the week’s gain to 2 percent.  
 “Demand has been good all through this year and that
continues because of pre-stocking for Ramadan festival,” said
 Arhnue Tan , an analyst with ECM Libra Capital Sdn. “Malaysian
palm oil stockpiles are down at a time when there’s speculation
La Nina may affect production later this year.”  
 China, India, Pakistan and Indonesia mark their important
festivals in the quarter ending September, with communal meals
stoking edible oils consumption. Malaysia’s exports increased
5.5 percent to 1.44 million tons in June, beating estimates by
cargo surveyors Intertek and Societe Generale de Surveillance.  
 Greater-than-expected exports of palm oil from in Malaysia,
the second-largest producer, pared June stockpiles to a 10-month
low of 1.45 million tons, the country’s Palm Oil Board said on
June 12. Exports rose 5.5 percent to 1.44 million tons.  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc . this week forecast crude palm oil
for  immediate delivery  would gain 15 percent to 20 percent this
year after dry weather hurt Malaysian production.  
 ‘Weather Concerns’  
 “The weather concerns persist not just in palm oil
producing countries, even the U.S. weather for soybean is
reportedly not great,” ECM Libra’s Tan said. “If there’s
flooding in Southeast Asia that hurts palm oil output, one could
expect dry weather in the U.S.” because of the La Nina weather
event, she said.  
 Palm oil may trade between 2,200 ringgit and 2,600 ringgit
a ton until October, she said. Palm and soybean oils are direct
substitutes.  
 Argentina yesterday levied anti-dumping duties on some
Chinese products a week after the presidents of the two
countries failed to end an embargo by the Asian nation on
Argentine soybean oil imports.  
 China in April banned Argentine soybean oil imports in
retaliation for anti-dumping probes on products ranging from
elevators to textiles. Argentina is the largest exporter of
soybean oil. Until the start of the embargo, the South American
nation supplied about 75 percent of imports by China, the
world’s biggest consumer of the edible oil.  
 Soybeans Rally  
 Soybeans advanced for the fourth straight day in Chicago
after a drought in Europe cut output of canola and sunflowers,
increasing global demand for oilseeds from the U.S. November-
delivery futures gained 0.4 percent to $9.83 a bushel at 4:09
a.m. Singapore time. The oilseed, up 9 percent this month, began
the rally after the U.S. government said reserves as of June 1
were at a six-year low.  
 Soybean oil for delivery in December rose 0.1 percent to
39.59 cents, extending a 1.7 percent advance yesterday. Soybean
oil’s  premium  over palm oil narrowed to $88.32 a ton from $90.21
yesterday, according to Bloomberg data.  
 CME Group Inc.’s October-delivery palm oil contract, which
is pegged to the Malaysian benchmark price, surged 2.8 percent
to $780.75 a ton yesterday.  
 On the Dalian Commodity Exchange, January-delivery palm oil
Added 0.5 percent to 6,628 yuan ($978) a ton, while soybean oil
advanced 0.5 percent to 7,624 yuan a ton.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        