-- Pernod Drops Most in Two Months as Liquor Sales Miss Estimates
-- Clementine Fletcher
-- 2010-07-23T17:24:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/pernod-declines-most-in-two-months-in-paris-as-liquor-sales-miss-estimates.html

          
          
             Pernod-Ricard SA , the maker of
Absolut vodka and Chivas Regal whiskey, dropped the most in more
than three weeks in Paris trading after fourth-quarter sales
missed analysts’ estimates.  
 Pernod said late yesterday that revenue rose “close to 3
percent,” excluding acquisitions, in the period, missing the
4.2 percent average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of four
analysts. The stock declined 2.3 percent, the most since June
29, to close at 62.61 euros.  
 Western  European sales  in the three months ended June 30
were hurt by the U.K., Spain and Greece, the company said, as
declining consumer confidence deterred shoppers from buying
premium liquor brands. Pernod raised its profit forecast for the
second time this year on “buoyant” markets in Asia and Latin
America and improving conditions in eastern Europe and the U.S.  
 “Europe remains troubling,” Credit Suisse analyst  Anthony Bucalo  said in a note. Greece, Spain and the U.K. have “clearly
become more challenging as economic weakness and austerity
programs take hold.” Bucalo has a “neutral” rating on Pernod.  
 Earnings from recurring operations increased 3 percent to
4 percent for the year, according to Pernod, which in April
forecast growth of “around 3 percent.”  
 Comparable sales in the second half rose 9 percent, “aided
by a gradual recovery in consumer spending in mature markets,
higher growth momentum in emerging markets and favorable
comparatives,” the company said.  Revenue  growth was boosted by
Pernod’s “Top 14” brands, which include Mumm Champagne and
Glenlivet whiskey. The company increased spending on advertising
and promotion “as planned,” it said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Clementine Fletcher  in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        