-- Singapore Targets Sukuk as Khazanah Nasional Plans Sale: Islamic Finance
-- Khalid Qayum
-- 2010-08-03T03:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/petronas-sukuk-stage-record-rally-on-dbs-fidelity-demand-islamic-finance.html

          
          
             Singapore is seeking to develop its
Islamic finance market and attract investors as global growth in
products that comply with Shariah law tops 20 percent annually.  
 Islamic services in the island republic are “small and
still emerging” and reflect the overall trend, according to an
e-mail statement on July 27 from the  Monetary Authority of
Singapore . “Greater depth and liquidity will in turn draw even
more participants into using Islamic finance for their funding
and investment needs. For the industry to grow further, we need
more intermediaries, more products and more investors.”  
 Khazanah Nasional Bhd., Malaysia’s state investment company,
hired three banks to advise on the sale of Singapore dollar-
denominated sukuk, a person familiar with the matter said on
July 28. A “few companies” are looking to sell notes in
Singapore that adhere to the religion’s ban on interest, the
authority known as MAS said, without specifying the names.  
 Financial products that meet Shariah guidelines, which are
typically backed by assets or cash flows, account for less than
5 percent of the total market worldwide, the MAS said. Globally,
about $1 trillion is invested in Islamic products.  
 The government started a S$200 million ($148 million) sukuk
issuance program in January 2009, which was set up to provide
“regulatory assets” to institutions offering Islamic services,
according to the MAS. Several portions have been sold so far and
the debt was offered at similar yields to notes that don’t
comply with the ban on interest, the central bank said.  
 ‘Critical Mass’  
 Singapore’s Islamic finance industry “doesn’t have the
critical mass but it is heading in the right direction,”
Jonathan King, director at Singapore-based  AEP Investment
Management Ltd. , which is 80 percent owned by Saudi Arabia’s Al-
Rajhi Group, said in an interview yesterday. “We are encouraged
by MAS’ pro-active strategy.”  
 Global sales of Islamic bonds have fallen 29 percent to
$6.7 billion so far this year, compared with $20.2 billion in
2009. Malaysia, which accounts for more than 60 percent of the
global sukuk market, sold $1.25 billion of notes in May,
attracting orders for more than five times the debt it initially
offered.  
 The spread between the average yield on emerging-market
sukuk and the London interbank offered rate, has narrowed 58
basis points, or 0.58 percentage point, to 385 since the end of
June, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index .
The difference reached this year’s low of 369 on April 15.  
 Sukuk Returns  
 The debt returned 9 percent this year, according to the  
Index , while bonds in developing markets gained 10 percent,
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  EMBI Global Diversified Index  shows.  
 The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent note due June 2015
fell six basis points to 2.89 percent today and has dropped 100
basis points since the securities were sold in May, according to
prices from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  
 Singapore’s central bank said it had “undertaken a series
of regulatory and fiscal measures since 1994 to create a
conducive environment for Islamic finance transactions.”  
 Islamic Development Bank, the Jeddah, Saudi Arabia-based
multi-lateral lender, sold S$200 million of three-year notes
last September in a private placement. AEP Investment plans to
double the $100 million in Islamic funds raised this year and
invest some of the money in Singapore, including “high quality”
real estate that meets Islamic finance guidelines, King said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        