-- Philippine National Bank Says It's Not for Sale, Instead Seeking Takeovers
-- Ian Sayson
-- 2010-07-23T09:28:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/philippine-national-bank-is-not-for-sale-lender-seeks-acquisitions.html

          
          
             Philippine National Bank  said it is
not in talks with investors seeking to buy the company and plans
to acquire smaller rivals once it completes the takeover of
Allied Banking Corp.  
 “We are not for sale and in fact, we, ourselves, will be
hunting as opportunities arise, preferably once we’ve completed
the merger with Allied scheduled by the latter part of the
year,” President  Eugene Acevedo  said in a phone interview today
in Manila. “We are not in negotiations with any buyer.”  
 Acevedo made the comments after the bank shares  surged 13
percent , their biggest gain since April 2009, in part on
speculation the nation’s fifth-largest lender was an acquisition
target. Shares in the bank, known as PNB and controlled by
billionaire  Lucio Tan , have risen 43 percent this month.  
 “There’s value in PNB, even without these talks of the
bank getting acquired,” said  Erwin Balita , an analyst at
Manila-based SB Equities Inc. “The stock is below book value
and this speculation is hastening the recovery in PNB’s share
price.”  
 Philippine National is boosting staff in treasury and sales
as it aims to regain the lead in handling  overseas remittances ,
bolster trading gains, attract more retail and credit card
customers and boost asset management,  Acevedo said in an
interview in June. He was formerly Citigroup Inc.’s managing
director and head of global markets for Hong Kong and Taiwan.  
 ‘Positive Changes’  
 The bank, which recently hired  Ricky Cebrero  to head its
treasury and  Malou Liwag  to lead marketing, announced today that
former treasurer  Ramon Lim  will be Acevedo’s chief of staff.  
 “We’d like to think that the share price is due to the
positive changes that are taking place and also because of the
impending merger,” Acevedo said.  
 Allied, also controlled by Tan, has agreed to sell a 28
percent stake in U.S.-based Oceanic Holding Ltd., one of the
requirements for the merger to proceed.  
 PNB is trading at 0.99 of its estimated 44.08 peso  book
value a share , according to Bloomberg data. PNB is worth 28.81
billion pesos ($622 million) based on today’s closing share
price. The bank had 280.7 billion pesos of assets at the end of
the first quarter. Allied Bank, which is not publicly traded,
had 158.4 billion pesos in assets.  
 “We would like to look at banks with branch networks and
into customer segments we don’t currently service,” he said.  
 PNB closed at 43.50 pesos a share at the noon end of
trading in Manila. That’s the highest since January 2008.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Clarissa Batino  in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        