-- U.K. Pound Jumps, Gilts Slide After Report Shows Surge in Economic Growth
-- Chris Kay
-- 2010-07-23T16:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/pound-rises-against-dollar-euro-before-report-on-british-economic-growth.html

          
          
             The pound surged and gilts fell
after a government report showed the U.K. economy grew at the
fastest pace in four years in the second quarter.  
 Sterling surpassed $1.54 against the dollar and climbed
against the euro and yen as the Office for National Statistics
said gross domestic product rose 1.1 percent in the three months
through June, compared with 0.3 percent growth in the previous
quarter. That was almost twice the 0.6 percent median prediction
from 32 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 “The U.K. GDP figures are really tremendous,” said  Lutz Karpowitz , a senior currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt. “It will put more pressure on the dollar.”  
 The pound advanced 1 percent to $1.5405 at 5:30 p.m. in
London, approaching the three-month high of $1.5472 reached on
July 15. The pound rose 1.23 percent to 83.44 pence per euro,
and advanced 1.42 percent to 134.6 pence against the yen.  
 Sterling kept its gains after European regulators posted
the results of bank stress tests, showing seven banks in the
region failed.  
 The British growth figures, driven by a rebound in
services, manufacturing and construction, followed a German
report that showed business confidence in Europe’s biggest
economy unexpectedly surged to a three-year high. The data may
suggest European economies are faring better than the U.S.,
where Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said yesterday
that the nation still needs stimulus.  
 Sterling ‘Breakout’  
 Britain’s growth pickup may sharpen the divide among policy
makers as the Bank of England considers whether the economy
faces a greater threat from inflation or needs more support to
avert a return to recession.  
 “The market was prepared for a strong number, but that has
exceeded that figure,” said  Ian Stannard , a senior currency
strategist at BNP Paribas SA in London. “Gains from the
breakout we have seen in sterling will continue.”  
 The yield on the 10-year U.K. bond rose 9 basis points to
3.45 percent and the two-year note advanced 8 basis points to
0.88 percent, both the monthly highs.  
 Gilts returned 5.78 percent this year, compared with a gain
of 3.04 percent for bonds in the euro area, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. German debt handed investors 6.5 percent,
the indexes showed.  
 Britain is the first of the Group of Seven nations to
report second-quarter GDP and today’s estimate is the first of
three. The statistics office uses data for the first two months
of the period from about 40 percent of companies assessed, or
about 40,000 businesses, and three-month figures for a further
20,000 firms.  
 The nation is enduring the deepest budget squeeze since
World War II while facing a debt crisis in the euro region, its
biggest trading partner. Prime Minister David Cameron said this
week that his government is “getting on top of Britain’s
economic and financial problems” after Chancellor of the
Exchequer George Osborne’s June 22 emergency budget.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Kay  in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        