-- China Property Prices May Fall 30% as Economic Growth Slows, Nikko Says
-- Shigeki Nozawa
-- 2010-07-23T03:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/property-prices-may-tumble-30-percent-in-china-as-growth-slows-nikko-says.html

          
          
             China’s  property prices  may drop as
much as 30 percent and economic  growth  will slow below 8 percent
following government measures to cool the real-estate market,
according to Nikko Cordial Securities Inc.  
 Officials from China’s State Council and real-estate
industry have estimated property prices will fall a minimum 20
percent, said  Chiyuki Shiraiwa , an economist at the securities
company in Tokyo, citing a survey she conducted this month.  
 “The Chinese government seems to expect that the nation
will withstand a 30 percent drop in prices and that there will
be a minimum macroeconomic impact,” Shiraiwa said yesterday at
a forum in Tokyo.  
 Shiraiwa cited a stress test the China Banking Regulatory
Commission conducted in June that forecast the bad-loan ratio at
banks may climb to 1.41 percent from 1.04 percent if home prices
decline by 30 percent.  
 China’s government has raised bank  reserve ratios  three
times this year and introduced controls on lending for second
and third homes in a bid to prevent a bubble forming in the
property market. Prices in 70 cities dropped 0.1 percent in June
from a month earlier, the statistics bureau reported July 12.  
 A slide in property prices will likely push down the
nation’s economic growth in the three months ended Dec. 31,
Shiraiwa said.  
 At the State Council “there’s even talk that growth will
slide below 8 percent in the October-December period,” she said.
The authorities believe the nation must seek to maintain growth
of at least 8 percent and if this appears in danger they are
likely to introduce more stimulus measures, she said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shigeki Nozawa  in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        