-- Rand Strengthens to More Than Two-Month High on Rate Hold, Metals Increase
-- Janice Kew
-- 2010-07-23T11:02:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/rand-strengthens-to-more-than-two-month-high-on-rate-hold-metals-increase.html

          
          
             The rand appreciated to the
strongest level more than two months after the central bank kept
its benchmark interest rate unchanged and gold and platinum
prices rose.  
 The currency of Africa’s biggest economy climbed as much as
0.5 percent to 7.4082 per dollar in Johannesburg from a close of
7.4414 yesterday, the strongest intraday level since May 5. It
traded 0.1 percent stronger at 7.4351 as of 1 p.m. The rand has
gained 2.6 percent this week, heading for its biggest weekly
rally in six.  
 Monetary-policy makers yesterday kept the  repurchase rate 
at 6.5 percent, in line with the forecast of 18 of 26 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg. Gold, which together with platinum
accounts for almost a quarter of South Africa’s export earnings,
climbed above $1,200 an ounce in London on speculation investors
will increase purchases of the precious metal as a means of
protecting wealth. Platinum surged to the highest level this
month, rising 1 percent to $1,541.85 an ounce.  
 “The Reserve Bank’s decision to keep the repo rate on hold
despite mounting expectations for a rate cut boosted the rand,”
analyst  Michael Keenan  wrote in a client note today. “With
commodity prices rising and Asian markets in the black this
morning, we expect further rand strength today,” Keenan said.  
 Net purchases of bonds by foreign investors surged more
than sevenfold to 10.6 billion rand ($1.43 billion) of bonds in
the week through July 16, according to JSE Ltd., which manages
the Johannesburg-based stock exchange.  
 Inflows  
 “You just have to look at the bond inflows in the last few
weeks to see that there were quite a few people in the market
that expected a rate cut,” said  Kieran Curtis , a fund manager
at Aviva Investors in London. “South African bonds do look
quite good value now in the global context.”  
 Inflation , which reached 4.6 percent in May, will stay
within the 3 percent to 6 percent target until the end of next
year, Marcus said. The inflation rate will probably average 4.5
percent in the third quarter and “increase moderately
thereafter,” with the bank’s inflation forecast remaining
unchanged from the previous meeting, South African Reserve Bank
Governor  Gill Marcus  said.  
 South Africa’s main interest rate compares with benchmark
deposit returns of 0.1 percent in Japan and 0.25 percent in the
U.S., making the rand an attractive purchase for so-called carry
trades. The transactions, which involve borrowing money in
countries with low rates to invest in markets that offer higher
returns, have helped the rand rally 22 percent since the start
of last year.  
 Money-market futures rose for a second day as investors
reduced bets the central bank will cut rates when it announces
its decision on Sept. 9. Forward-rate agreements showed that
contracts for three-month cash due in three months rose 8.5
percentage points to 6.365 percent.  
 Government bonds fell, with the price of the 13.5 percent
security due September 2015 declined the most in a month,
dropping 40 cents to 123.89 rand, raising the yield by 8 basis
points to 7.72 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janice Kew  in Johannesburg at 
 jkew1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        