-- U.S. Two-Year Yields Near Record Low on European Stress-Test Speculation
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-07-23T15:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/treasuries-fall-as-u-k-german-reports-stoke-optimism-for-global-economy.html

          
          
             Treasury  two-year note yields were
near a record low for a fourth day on speculation stress tests
of European lenders won’t prove they’re strong enough to weather
a government default.  
 Ten-year yields fell from a one-week high after a draft
document said the 91 banks being tested were only examined on
European sovereign-debt losses for the bonds they trade, rather
than those they hold to maturity. Treasuries fell earlier as
signs that Europe’s economic recovery is gathering steam curbed
demand for the safest fixed-income assets.  
 “There’s a lot of concern about these stress tests -- no
one in the U.S. knows what to expect,” said  Ray Remy , head of
fixed income in New York at Daiwa Securities Group Inc., one of
18 primary dealers that trade with the Federal Reserve. “If
they are only going to measure the losses only to traded bond
portfolios, then that’s not what everyone thought was going to
be measured.”  
 The two-year  note  yielded 0.57 percent at 11:31 a.m. in New
York, according to BGCantor Market Data. It earlier rose to 0.58
percent after dropping to a record 0.5516 percent. The 0.625
percent security maturing in June 2012 traded little changed at
100 3/32.  
 The 10-year note  yielded  2.95 percent after earlier rising
to 3 percent, the highest level since July 16. It touched 2.85
percent on July 21, the lowest level since April 2009.  
 Majority of Holdings  
 The stress tests, which were conducted to ensure European
lenders can withstand a recession and potential losses on
government bonds, are set to ignore the majority of banks’
holdings of sovereign debt after regulators decided against
testing securities held in their banking books.  
 “The haircuts are applied to the trading book portfolios
only, as no default assumption was considered,” the European
Central Bank said in a confidential document July 22 titled “EU
Stress Test Exercise: Key Messages on Methodological Issues.”  
 Lenders hold about 90 percent of their Greek government
bonds in their banking book and 10 percent in their trading
book, according to a survey by Morgan Stanley analysts led by
 Huw van Steenis . They only have to write down the value of bonds
in their banking book if there is serious doubt about a state’s
ability to repay its debt in full or make interest payments.  
 Treasuries fell earlier after U.K. GDP rose 1.1 percent in
the three months through June following a 0.3 percent increase
in the previous quarter, the Office for National Statistics
said. Economists forecast a 0.6 percent gain, according to the
median of 32 predictions in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 The Ifo institute said its German business climate index
jumped to 106.2, the highest since July 2007, from 101.8 in
June, the biggest monthly increase since records for a reunified
Germany began in 1990.  
 Weekly Loss  
 While U.S. economic reports over the past month were weaker
than some analysts projected, 10-year notes were still poised
for a weekly loss amid optimism corporate earnings and a law
extending payments to the unemployed would maintain growth.
Technical considerations also point to Treasury declines,
according to primary dealer Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  
 “There are growing signs in the technicals that the
honeymoon in Treasuries is coming to an end for the near-term,”
 William O’Donnell , managing director at RBS Securities in
Stamford, Connecticut, wrote in a note to clients. “I see signs
of brewing bearish divergence in the charts of all benchmark
Treasury securities -- save for the 30-year bond.”  
 The 10-year yield, a benchmark for corporate borrowing and
mortgages, will climb to 3.31 percent by year-end, according to
a Bloomberg survey of banks and securities companies with the
most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  
 Company Earnings  
 Ten-year yields rose 6 basis points yesterday, the most in
more than a week.  Microsoft Corp.  posted its biggest sales gain
in 2 1/2 years, and AT&T Inc., United Parcel Service Inc. and
EBay Inc. also beat earnings estimates.  
 President  Barack Obama  signed an extension for jobless
benefits into law yesterday, granting $34 billion of extra
payments to the unemployed. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told
lawmakers unemployment is “the most important” problem. The
U.S. faces an “unusually uncertain” economy, he said July 21.  
 A Labor Department report yesterday showed initial claims
for unemployment benefits jumped by 37,000 to 464,000 in the
week ended July 17, exceeding the highest estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 “Data in the U.S. has softened slightly and Bernanke is
reiterating that the Fed’s mandate is growth and employment,”
said  Peter Chatwell , an interest-rate strategist at Credit
Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “He’s saying
there’s still ammunition they could use.”  
 Futures on the CME Group Inc. exchange show a 33 percent
chance policy makers will boost the  target lending rate  for
overnight bank loans at least a quarter-percentage point by
April, compared with a 55 percent likelihood a month ago.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        