-- Treasury Two-Year Yields Decline to Record Low on European Bank Concerns
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-07-23T08:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/treasury-two-year-yields-decline-to-record-low-on-european-bank-concerns.html

          
          
             Treasury two-year yields reached a
record low for a fourth-straight day as speculation that
European stress tests will find some lenders are too weak to
withstand a recession boosted demand for the safest assets.  
 The two-year securities headed for a weekly advance after
the El Pais newspaper reported some Spanish savings banks may
fail examinations being conducted by European regulators before
officials announce results of the study today. The difference in
yield between two- and 10-year securities headed for a weekly
increase on signs the Federal Reserve may have to consider more
stimulus to sustain the U.S. recovery.  
 “We have to get past the stress test before we can see any
reduction in the risk premium,” said  Karsten Linowsky , a fixed-
income strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich. “It’s
clear already there are still some problems out there and it is
keeping a safety bid. Treasuries will be affected.”  
 The two-year  note  yielded 0.56 percent as of 8:37 a.m. in
London, according to BGCantor Market Data, after dropping to a
record 0.5516 percent. The 0.625 percent security due June 2012
was little changed at 100 1/8.  
 The 10-year yield was less than one basis point lower at
2.95 percent, with the yield premium over two-year securities
widening to 238 basis points from 233 basis points on July 16.  
 After crafting a rescue package worth almost $1 trillion to
ward off speculators betting on a break-up of the euro region,
regulators started the tests on European banks’ to ensure they
can withstand a recession and potential losses on government
bonds. Europe’s largest banks may give breakdowns of their
sovereign-debt holdings when they release the stress-test
results, according to a document from the Committee of European
Banking Supervisors.  
 Spanish Banks  
 Some Spanish savings lenders that participated in mergers
and received money from Spain’s bank-rescue fund may not pass
the stress tests, El Pais reported, citing unidentified people
in financial markets. The banks may need additional capital if
the economy worsens significantly, the Spanish newspaper said.  
 President  Barack Obama  signed an extension for jobless
benefits into law yesterday, granting $34 billion of extra
payments to the unemployed.  
 Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told lawmakers the
same day that unemployment is “the most important” problem.
The U.S. faces an “unusually uncertain” economy, the Fed chief
said July 21.  
 Labor Department data yesterday showed initial jobless
claims jumped by 37,000 to 464,000 in the week ended July 17,
exceeding the highest estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  
 Softer U.S. Data  
 “Data in the U.S. has softened slightly and Bernanke is
reiterating that the Fed’s mandate is growth and employment,”
said  Peter Chatwell , an interest-rate strategist at Credit
Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “He’s saying
there’s still ammunition they could use.”  
 Futures on the CME Group Inc. exchange show a 32 percent
chance policy makers will boost the  target lending rate  for
overnight bank loans at least a quarter-percentage point by
April, compared with a 61 percent chance a month ago.  
 The Treasury said yesterday it will auction $38 billion in
two-year notes, $37 billion of five-year debt and $29 billion in
seven-year securities over three days starting July 27.  
 The U.S. has cut the size of these monthly sales to $104
billion from $108 billion in June and $113 billion in May.  
 The U.S.  budget deficit  shrank to $68.4 billion in June
from $94.3 billion a year earlier, the Treasury reported on July
13. Even so, the government projects the deficit for the year
ending Sept. 30 will reach a record $1.6 trillion.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        