-- Treasury 10-Year Notes Head for Weekly Loss as Corporate Earnings Increase
-- Wes Goodman
-- 2010-07-23T05:20:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/treasury-10-year-notes-head-for-weekly-loss-as-corporate-earnings-increase.html

          
          
             Treasury 10-year notes headed for a
weekly loss on speculation corporate earnings and a law granting
$34 billion of extra payments to the unemployed will keep the
U.S. economy from falling back into recession.  
 Longer maturities slid as stocks around the world rallied,
reducing demand for the relative safety of government debt.  Two-
year  yields, which track the Federal Reserve’s target for
overnight lending because of their short maturity, stayed near a
record low as traders bet the central bank will keep borrowing
costs down to foster the economic expansion.  
 “We’re not having a double dip recession,” said  Rob da Silva , who helps oversee $220 billion at Principal Global
Investors in Sydney, part of Principal Financial Group Inc. in
Des Moines, Iowa. “Our outlook for Treasuries is that yields
will go up. Risk sentiment seems to be relatively positive.”  
 Ten-year notes  yielded  2.94 percent as of 6:19 a.m. in
London, according to BGCantor Market Data. The 3.5 percent
security due May 2020 traded at 104 23/32. The rate climbed two
basis points this week. Two-year  notes  yielded 0.56 percent,
versus yesterday’s record low of 0.5519.  
 The 10-year yield, a benchmark for corporate borrowing and
mortgage rates, may rise as high as 3.75 percent in the 12
months, da Silva said. The yield will increase to 3.31 percent
by year-end, according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and
securities companies with the most recent forecasts given the
heaviest weightings.  
 Microsoft Earnings  
 MSCI’s Asia Pacific  Index of shares rose 1.8 percent after
 Microsoft Corp.  yesterday posted its biggest sales gain in 2 1/2
years. AT&T Inc., United Parcel Service Inc. and EBay Inc. also
reported earnings that surpassed analysts’ estimates. The  MSCI
World  Index of shares gained 2.2 percent this week.  
 President  Barack Obama  signed the extension for jobless
benefits into law yesterday. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told
lawmakers the same day that unemployment is “the most
important” problem. The U.S. faces an “unusually uncertain”
economy, the Fed chief said July 21.  
 Futures on the CME Group Inc. exchange show a 32 percent
chance will boost its  target lending rate  for overnight bank
loans at least a quarter-percentage point by April, compared
with a 61 percent chance a month ago.  
 European regulators examining banks in the region are
scheduled to deliver results of their tests today, as
governments seek to ease concern that lenders aren’t strong
enough to withstand a recession.  
 Slowing Growth  
 Treasuries have benefitted this year as a slowing in the
global economy led investors to seek the safest assets. U.S.
government securities returned 6.3 percent in 2010, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The MSCI World index
handed investors a 3.1 percent loss after accounting for
reinvested dividends.  
 “People are more concerned about the outlook for the
economy,” said Tomohisa Fujiki, an interest-rate strategist in
Tokyo at BNP Paribas Securities Japan Ltd. “That’s leading
people to buy even at these levels.”  
 Ten-year yields will fall to 2.9 percent by the end of
September, he said, approaching the 15-month low of 2.85 percent
set July 21.  
 Yields indicate investors are becoming more willing to lend.
The London interbank offered rate, which banks pay for three-
month dollar  loans , fell for a seventh day yesterday to 0.498
percent, the lowest level in two months.  
 The TED spread, the difference between what banks and the
U.S. Treasury pay to borrow for three months, slid to 35 basis
points from this year’s high of 49 basis points in June.  
 Japanese Demand  
 The spread between yields on U.S. corporate bonds and
Treasuries shrank to 2.98 percentage points from 3.25 percentage
points in June, according to the Bank of America indexes.  
 Japanese investors are snapping up foreign bonds, according
to government data released today. They  bought  1.3 trillion yen
($15 billion) more in overseas bonds and notes than they sold
during the week ended July 16, the most in 10 months, a Ministry
of Finance report showed.  
 Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance Co., which has the equivalent
of $65.6 billion in assets, is among investors seeking higher
yields in the U.S. than they can get at home, said  Satoshi Okumoto , a general manager at the Tokyo-based company.  
 Two-year yields in Japan are 0.14 percent, the lowest of 30
bond markets tracked by Bloomberg data. Investors can earn an
additional 42 basis points by buying same-maturity securities in
the U.S. The  spread  has narrowed from about 1 percentage point
in April.  
 The Treasury said yesterday it will auction $38 billion in
two-year notes, $37 billion of five-year debt and $29 billion in
seven-year securities over three days starting July 27.  
 The U.S. has cut the size of these monthly sales to $104
billion from $108 billion in June, $113 billion in May and $118
billion in April.  
 The U.S.  budget deficit  to $68.4 billion in June from $94.3
billion a year earlier, the Treasury reported on July 13. Even
so, the government projects the deficit for the year ending Sept.
30 will reach a record $1.6 trillion.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        