-- Record Sri Lanka Stock Rise to Boost Initial Share Sales, NDB Bank Says
-- Asantha Sirimanne
-- 2010-07-23T10:55:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/record-sri-lanka-stock-rise-to-boost-initial-share-sales-ndb-bank-says.html

          
          
             Sri Lanka’s stock market, the
world’s second-best performer this year, may see a near
threefold rise in share sales in the second half from the first
six months amid rising investor demand, according to National
Development Bank Plc.  
 “The recent high oversubscriptions of new issues show the
liquidity that is available,”  Vajira Kulatilaka , head of
investment banking at NDB Bank, the nation’s largest non-
government corporate lender, said by telephone today. “Now that
the war is over, there is a lot of hope and good sentiment.”  
 The South Asian island’s Colombo  All-Share Index  has
climbed 45 percent this year and is the best performer after
Mongolia among benchmarks tracked by Bloomberg as the end of the
island’s civil war spurred an economic recovery. Five Sri Lankan
companies announced plans to raise $7.6 million in initial share
sales in the first half. Colombo-based retailer Odel Ltd. this
month received demand for 63 times the 250.5 million rupees
($2.2 million) offered.  
 Kulatilaka said he’s working with companies in finance,
power, engineering and agriculture industries that may seek
listings worth about 2 billion rupees this year. NDB Investment
Bank Ltd., the lender’s investment banking unit, is arranging
the 630 million rupee initial share sale of Sri Lanka’s PC House
Ltd., a computer distributor. The firm in 2005 arranged the
country’s biggest IPO for Dialog Axiata Ltd., the biggest
mobile-phone operator.  
 Sri Lanka is aiming to accelerate economic  growth  to 7
percent in 2010, the fastest pace in four years. Gross domestic
product rose 7.1 percent in the three months ended March 31 from
a year earlier, after gaining 6.2 percent in the previous
quarter.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anusha Ondaatjie  in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        