-- Relativity Media Buys Overture Films From Cable Billionaire John Malone
-- Ronald Grover
-- 2010-07-23T20:31:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/relativity-media-buys-overture-films-from-cable-billionaire-john-malone.html

          
          
             Relativity Media LLC,  Ryan Kavanaugh ’s film finance and production company, agreed to take
over the marketing and distribution operations of  Liberty Media
Corp. ’s Starz Overture Films.  
 Kavanaugh’s company, which bought Rogue Pictures from NBC
Universal last year, plans to hire two-thirds of Overture’s
staff, about 45 people, Relativity said today in an e-mailed
statement. Financial terms weren’t disclosed.  
 The agreement marks an exit from feature films by Starz,
part of the Liberty Media empire controlled by cable television
billionaire  John Malone . Starz, led by President and CEO  Chris Albrecht , operates premium cable television channels and
produces its own programming.  
 Among those joining West Hollywood, California-based
Relativity will be Overture’s top marketing and distribution
executive,  Peter Adee , as well as Kyle Davies, Overture’s
executive vice-president of theatrical distribution.  
 Overture will release its remaining titles -- “Jack Goes
Boating,” “Stone” and “Let Me In” -- through a distribution
services agreement with Relativity, the companies said.  
 Closely held Relativity announced on July 6 an accord to
offer as many as 30 films to subscribers of Netflix Inc., the
mail-order and Internet film service, at the same time premium
cable channels show the movies.  
 “As we’ve been expanding this area of our business,
finding a team with the experience and breadth and depth that
Peter and Kyle’s have couldn’t have been more perfect fit,”
Kavanaugh, Relativity’s CEO, said in the statement.  
 Liberty Capital, the Liberty Media tracking stock that
includes the Starz assets, rose $1.26, or 2.8 percent, to $46.57
at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . Shares
of the Englewood, Colorado-based company have gained 95 percent
this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ron Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 Rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        