-- Rice Export Ban Must End to Reduce Food Bill for Half the World, Sen Says
-- Prabhudatta Mishra
-- 2010-07-23T09:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/rice-export-ban-must-end-to-reduce-food-bill-for-half-the-world-sen-says.html

          
          
             India, the second-biggest producer
of rice, must end a ban on exports to help pare prices of Asia’s
most important staple, according to a member of the nation’s top
planning body.  
 “India not exporting is hurting a lot of other people in
the world,”  Abhijit Sen , a member of the Planning Commission,
said in an interview in New Delhi yesterday. “We should allow
exports as it will bring down world prices.”  
 Lifting the two-year restriction may lead to shipments of
as much as 500,000 metric tons of parboiled rice to Bangladesh,
the Middle East, South Africa and Nigeria, pressuring prices in
Thailand, the top supplier, according to Emmsons International
Ltd., a grain exporter in New Delhi.  
 “Exports will definitely create a problem for Thailand,”
said  Rakesh Singh , a trader at Emmsons.  
 Thai rice  prices , the benchmark for Asia, dropped to the
lowest level in more than two years, the Thai Rice Exporters
Association said this week. The price of 100-percent grade-B
white rice fell 1.1 percent to $458 a ton from a week earlier,
the lowest level since January 2008, according to data from the
association’s website.  
 Rice futures in Chicago, which climbed to $16.27 per 100
pounds last December on concern that India may become a net
importer for the first time in more than two decades, traded at
$10.36 at 2:17 p.m. Mumbai time.  
 India banned exports of all grades, except the aromatic
Basmati variety, in April 2008, to increase domestic supplies.
The restriction persists as a drought in 2009 pared production
by 10 percent to 89.13 million tons in the year ended June 30,
according to the farm ministry.  
 Plantings Increase  
 The government may permit exports in limited quantities as
output of monsoon-sown crops including rice, cotton and oilseeds
this season will be higher than a year ago because of increased
plantings, Farm Minister  Sharad Pawar  said July 16.  
 “The decision to allow exports couldn’t be taken last year
because of drought and even this year there’s a certain
hesitation on allowing export as rainfall figures still suggest
that we are below normal,” the Planning Commission’s Sen said.  
 The monsoon, the main source of irrigation for the nation’s
235 million farmers, is 12 percent below the long-period average
since June 1, according to the weather office. Still, total food
grain output may rise 6 percent to 230 million tons in the year
to March 31, as the La Nina weather event brings more rain after
a weak start to the monsoon season, Normura Holdings Inc. said
in a report on July 21.  
 “We have enough supplies for exports,” trader Singh said.  
 India’s rice reserves on July 1 totaled 24.26 million tons,
more than twice the buffer norm of 9.8 million tons, according
to data compiled by state-owned Food Corp. of India.  
 The Planning Commission is a state agency that sets growth
and spending targets.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pratik Parija  in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        