-- Storm Bonnie Weakens Over Florida, Heads Into Gulf of Mexico
-- Brian K. Sullivan
-- 2010-07-23T18:25:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/tropical-storm-bonnie-may-weaken-over-florida-u-s-hurricane-center-says.html

          
          
             Tropical Storm Bonnie may fall apart
as it continues across southern Florida and the Gulf of Mexico,
where it has delayed efforts by  BP Plc  to plug its wrecked
Macondo well, the National Hurricane Center said.  
 Computer models suggest the storm may weaken as it passes
over Florida and dissipate, and conditions in the Gulf aren’t
conducive for Bonnie to gain much strength, according to a
center  analysis.   
 About 28 percent of the Gulf’s U.S. oil production and 10
percent of natural-gas output has been halted by the storm, the
government said.  
 “Bonnie could degenerate into a tropical wave as it
crosses Florida, but the official forecast still shows some
slight strengthening over the Gulf of Mexico,” the center said.
The difference between the two outlooks is caused by statistical
guidelines used when making forecasts.  
 Bonnie’s impact on the BP oil slick, the worst in U.S.
history, is still unknown because forecasters can’t exactly say
where the storm will go and how strong it will be when it gets
there.  
 BP said the storm’s high seas made it necessary to move
ships working on the relief wells that will be used to kill
Macondo by pumping it full of mud and cement. That will set back
completion of the plugging project to the end of August.  
 Oil Impact  
 “It is a balloon in the wind, so whatever the pull is and
the push is, is where it is going to go,” said Ken Graham, the
National Weather Service meteorologist in charge of the Slidell,
Louisiana, office. “It is all going to depend on the track.”  
 Graham said Bonnie may bring 8- to 10-foot seas to the
slick and that may help break up the oil. He has been
forecasting the weather specifically for the spill area since
April and has seen some rough weather in the area since then.  
 “Whenever we get the high seas it is going to beat things
up a lot,” Graham said. “When you start getting 8- to 10-foot
seas it speeds up the biodegradation process.”  
 However, the storm could end up pushing the oil on shore
and into marshes. Last month, waves from Hurricane Alex, the
season’s first storm, drove oil into the coast.  
 Strengthening Unlikely  
 Two weather systems on either side of Bonnie will likely
keep it from developing, Graham said.  
 A high-pressure system over the U.S. East Coast, which will
bring 95 to 100 degree temperatures to New York and
Philadelphia, is east of the storm. To its west is an upper-
level low-pressure system over the Gulf itself, Graham said.  
 Those two systems are creating high-level winds that are
tearing at Bonnie, Graham said. They are also steering the
storm, according to the hurricane center’s analysis.  
 Commercial forecasters are also calling for the storm to
fail to develop.  
 “AirDat tropical models keep Bonnie as a minimal tropical
storm through its lifespan with no period of real
intensification,” wrote Allan Huffman, a meteorologist for
 AirDat LLC  in North Carolina, which installs weather-gathering
sensors on commercial aircraft.  
 AccuWeather Inc.  predicts Bonnie will fluctuate between a
tropical storm and tropical depression through Saturday,
according to a statement from the State College, Pennsylvania-
based forecaster.  
 Watches, Warnings  
 Tropical storm warnings are posted along the northern Gulf
coast from Destin, Florida, to Morgan City, Louisiana, as well
as the state’s west coast as far north as Englewood. Warnings
for the northwestern Bahamas as well as Florida’s east coast
have been dropped. A warning means tropical storm conditions are
expected within 36 hours, the hurricane center said.  
 Tropical-storm-strength winds extend about 85 miles from
the center of the storm mainly on its northern and eastern
sides, according to the center. Bonnie was about 55 miles east-
southeast of Naples, Florida, and moving west-northwest at 18
mph shortly before 2 p.m. Miami time.  
 The storm is forecast to leave as much as 5 inches (13
centimeters) of rain over southern Florida and will raise water
levels by as much as 2 feet above ground level, according to the
hurricane center.  
 It has also prompted the evacuation of non-essential
personnel from rigs and platforms owned by  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc , Enbridge Energy Partners LP and  Transocean Ltd.   
 Shutdowns  
 Murphy Oil Corp. is shutting all of its production in the
Gulf because of Bonnie. Platforms that have been shut or are in
the process of halting output include ThunderHawk, Habanero,
Medusa and Front Runner,  Mindy West , a company spokeswoman, said
in an e-mail.  
 Williams Cos.  is shutting gas production and evacuating
personnel at its Canyon Station platform in the eastern Gulf,
the company said in a bulletin. It shut its Devils Tower station
yesterday.
and 10 percent of natural-gas output, the U.S. government said.  
 Oil and gas producers report that 2 rigs and 11 production
platforms have been evacuated due to the storm, the Bureau of
Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement said today
in a  statement on its website . About 452,000 barrels of daily
oil production are shut-in, along with 667 million cubic feet of
gas.  
 The Gulf of Mexico is home to about 31 percent of U.S. oil
output and about 10 percent of gas production, according to the
Energy Department.  
 Bonnie is the second named storm of the Atlantic hurricane
season, which is expected to be one of the most active on
record, according to forecasters including the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration and Colorado State University.
The season, which began June 1, runs through November.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        