-- Tropical Storm Chanthu Kills Two, Destroys 3,000 Homes in Southern China
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-23T03:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/tropical-storm-chanthu-kills-two-destroys-3-000-homes-in-southern-china.html

          
          
             Tropical storm Chanthu drenched
southern China today after killing two people and knocking down
thousands of homes in  Guangdong province .  
 Almost 3,000 homes collapsed in the storm’s strong gales
and heavy rains, leading to 2.2 billion yuan ($325 million) of
estimated losses and affected 1.35 million people as of 8 p.m.
local time yesterday, Xinhua News Agency reported. Chanthu moved
late yesterday northwest from Guangdong into neighboring Guangxi
province, which was ravaged by floods in June, the  China
Meteorological Administration  said.  
 Downpours from Chanthu are set to deluge four southern
provinces today, with western and central regions of China also
forecast to receive torrential rains, as President Hu Jintao
called for increased flood control and relief efforts. Flooding
in China has killed more than 700 people this year, the most in
more than a decade.  
 At least 45 people have been killed by flooding and
landslides in western China’s  Shaanxi  province, triggered by
downpours in the region from July 14, the local government said
in a statement posted to the State Council Information Office.
The storms also destroyed 27,160 houses and damaged 101,000
hectares of farmland, with losses estimated at 2.49 billion yuan,
Xinhua reported.  
 Floods in neighboring  Sichuan  province have killed 32
people, left 38 missing and forced the evacuation of almost 1
million residents, Xinhua reported separately.  
 Rain Forecast  
 Both Shaanxi and Sichuan are forecast to receive heavy rain
today along with the provinces of Guangdong, Guangxi, Hainan,
Yunnan, Henan and Gansu.  
 Flooding in China has killed 701 people and left 347 others
missing this year, Ministry of Water Resources and the flood
control office said in a July 21 joint statement. Since July 8,
floods have killed 187 people and left 173 missing, according to
the statement.  
 Premier Wen Jiabao visited southern China twice last month,
when flooding in the provinces of Guangxi, Guizhou, Hunan,
Jiangxi, Zhejiang and Fujian killed more than 200 people.
Downpours from Chanthu may again cause floods and landslides in
parts of southern China, the  Office of State Flood Control and
Drought Relief Headquarters  said on its website.  
 For Related News and Information:
Stories on natural disasters in China: TNI CHINA NAT BN <GO>
Bloomberg weather center: WEAT <GO>
Bloomberg mapping: BMAP <GO>
China economic statistics: ECST CH <GO>  
          
          


  


        