-- Rottneros Says May Withdraw From Project to Build South African Paper Mill
-- Nicky Smith
-- 2010-07-23T13:27:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/rottneros-says-may-withdraw-from-project-to-build-south-african-paper-mill.html

          
          
             Rottneros AB , a Swedish maker of
pulp used in papermaking, may pull out of a project to build a
paper mill in South Africa after delays in implementation and
increased financial demands from its South African partners.  
 Additional guarantees sought by its partner in the project
“go beyond what we consider to be reasonable,” the Upplands
Vaesby, Sweden-based company said in a statement today, without
giving details on the demands. “It now appears less certain
that the project will, in fact, be implemented.”  
 In 2008, Rottneros said it would build a 165,000 metric ton
mill at Richards Bay on South Africa’s east coast in partnership
with  NCT Forestry Co-operative Ltd.  They planned to use
equipment from Rottneros’ shut mill in Utansjoe and export
products to Europe and Asia. Rottneros has intensified efforts
to find alternative uses for its equipment and skills, it said.  
 The project may still go ahead should Rottneros pullout,
Peter Keyworth, the manager for NCT in the proposed Pulp United
project, said in an interview on his mobile phone today.
Rottneros can contribute plant and equipment to the project, act
as the engineering contractor or provide financing and take
equity in United Pulp, he said.  
 NCT requires “standard guarantees” associated with
construction projects that will “provide security for clients
so that they are not left in the lurch” if something goes
wrong, Keyworth said.  
 “From our perspective the project could still have life
without Rottneros,” he said, adding there will be more
certainty on funding by September. “They have a real interest
in this project going ahead.”  
 Rottneros is “not as confident” about the venture as it
was when it first became involved, Rottneros Chief Financial
Officer Thomas Hedstrom said in an interview from Stockholm
today. Guarantees on the project went beyond what was initially
required, he said, declining to say how much more money
Rottneros was being asked to contribute.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        