-- Rubber Climbs From Six-Week Low as Rally in Equities Boosts Confidence
-- Aya Takada
-- 2010-07-23T07:58:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/rubber-climbs-from-six-week-low-as-rally-in-equities-boosts-confidence.html

          
          
             Rubber recovered from a six-week low
as the nearby contract surged amid speculation that low
stockpiles in Japan may make physical delivery difficult at its
expiry on July 26.  
 Futures in Tokyo climbed as much as 3.5 percent after
slumping yesterday to the lowest level since June 9. The price
also increased as a rally in global stocks boosted investor
confidence in economic growth.  
 The July-delivery contract surged by 11.2 percent after
data showed this week that natural-rubber  stockpiles  monitored
by the Tokyo Commodity Exchange dropped by 29 percent to 1,341
tons as of July 10. It was the lowest level since at least 2001,
according to exchange spokesman Seiki Ichimura.  
 “Reduced inventories spurred a short-covering rally,
leading to a jump in the price of the July contract,”  Shuji Sugata , research manager at Mitsubishi Corp. Futures Ltd. in
Tokyo, said today by phone. Speculators with short, or sell,
positions in the nearby contract must buy them back by the
expiry date, unless they can deliver the raw material.  
 December-delivery rubber increased as much as 8.9 yen to
266.2 yen per kilogram ($3,059 a metric ton) before settling at
265.6 yen on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange.  
 July-delivery rubber surged 40 yen to 397.2 yen. In April,
the nearby contract jumped to 455.4 yen, the highest-ever expiry
price, exchange spokesman Ichimura said.  
 Equities Gain  
 Rubber futures also advanced as Asian  stocks  increased
after U.S. companies from AT&T Inc. to United Parcel Service Inc.
raised profit forecasts. The yen fell against all of its major
counterparts on speculation Japanese policy makers may act to
weaken the currency to support economic growth.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  gained 1.7 percent to 117.55 at
4:29 p.m. Tokyo time, extending its increase this week. Asian
equities may “surprise on the upside” in the second half of
the year because the global economy is likely to avoid a
recession, according to Nomura Asset Management Co.  
 Economic growth in emerging markets including China will
counter any slowdown in the U.S. and Europe, helping to boost
Asian equities, said  Graham Muirhead , Singapore-based head of
investment for the Asia-Pacific region outside Japan at Nomura
Asset. His firm, which holds $12 billion in Asian equities, is a
unit of Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s largest brokerage.  
 November-delivery rubber on the Shanghai Futures Exchange
gained 2.8 percent to 22,220 yuan ($3,278) a ton.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        