-- Russia Eyes Norilsk Nickel Stake Amid Ownership Fight
-- Yuriy Humber
-- 2010-07-23T13:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/russia-said-to-consider-buying-norilsk-nickel-stake-amid-ownership-battle.html

          
          
               Russia  is considering buying a stake
in OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, the country’s biggest mining company,
amid an ownership battle between two of its largest
shareholders, three people familiar with the matter said.  
 The government has approached Norilsk shareholders about
buying a stake in the Moscow-based company, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the talks are private. Oleg Deripaska, the biggest shareholder in United Co. Rusal, has
discussed selling Rusal’s 25 percent stake to state-owned
companies, one of the people said. Two of the people said talks
concern other shareholders’ stakes, not Rusal’s.  
 President  Dmitry Medvedev  held talks in January 2009 with
Deripaska and  Vladimir Potanin , whose Interros Holding Co. owns
25 percent of Norilsk, on proposals to create a merged commodity
producer from six Russian companies. The plan was abandoned a
month later. Deripaska and Potanin are now involved in a dispute
over the composition of Norilsk’s board.  
 “Quite a lot of people in government would like for
Norilsk to evolve into a national mining champion,” said  Chris Weafer , chief strategist with UralSib Capital LLC. “We’re
getting to the point where that decision has to be taken, and
this agitation is reflected in the shareholder dispute. The
state must choose by 2012 or call it off.”  
 Norilsk shares rose as much as 3.5 percent today and traded
up 2.1 percent at 5,111 rubles on the Micex Index as of 2:02
p.m. in Moscow. The Micex gained 0.2 percent.  
 ‘Strategic Asset’  
 Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s spokesman,  Dmitry Peskov ,
said he had “nothing to say” when asked about the possible
purchase of a stake in Norilsk. Erzhena Mintasova, a Norilsk
spokeswoman, said the company “doesn’t comment on the actions
of our shareholders.”  
 Maxim Sokov, Rusal’s head of strategy, said the Norilsk
stake is a strategic asset and there are no plans to sell it.  
 “We strongly believe that the only reason the government
could decide to look at buying a stake in Norilsk Nickel is
because of the potential damage to the company being caused by
past and possible future backstage deals between Interros and
management of Norilsk Nickel,” Sokov said in an e-mail.  
 Interros denied any plans to sell its stake in Norilsk.  
 “We never considered that issue because we’ve been
investing in this company quite heavily,” Andrei Bugrov,
managing director of Interros, said by phone July 21.  
 Russian Technologies  
 State-controlled companies, including Russian Technologies
Corp., have begun talks with Potanin and minority shareholder
Alisher Usmanov’s OAO Metalloinvest about purchasing their
shares in Norilsk, one of the people said.  
 Usmanov acquired about 5 percent of Norilsk in 2008 when
the conflict over control of the company emerged between
Deripaska and Potanin. Usmanov, asked by Potanin to act as a so-
called white knight to stave off Norilsk’s merger with Rusal,
called for the nickel company to consider a tie up with
Metalloinvest, Russia’s biggest iron-ore producer.  
 Usmanov proposed the idea to Medvedev in January 2009,
along with Deripaska and Potanin. Talks were abandoned after
Metalloinvest and Norilsk couldn’t agree on merger terms.
Metalloinvest cut its ownership in Norilsk to 4 percent after
the nickel company’s share buyback in 2008.  
 Yulia Mazanova, a spokeswoman for Metalloinvest in Moscow,
declined to comment as did Valery Kartavtsev, a spokesman for
Russian Technologies.  
 Rusal Debt  
   Vladimir Zhukov , an analyst with Nomura International Plc
in Moscow, said Rusal may sell its Norilsk stake if it receives
a good price. Rusal is trying to repay $12 billion of debt.  
 “Keep in mind that this would allow Rusal quickly to
reduce its leverage and resume investment in a large pipeline of
products currently shelved until debt reduction covenants are
met,” Zhukov said.  
 “As the buyer would have to come from Russia, and given
the lack of cash at most of the other private mining companies,
the most natural buyer would be one of the state-controlled
commercial banks, which are already involved either as creditors
or shareholders in Norilsk or Rusal,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Oleg V. Deripaska, chief executive officer of Russia's Basic Element, participates in a panel discussion titled "Managing the Growth of Nuclear Power" on day three of the 2010 World Economic Forum (WEF) annual meeting in Davos, on Jan. 29, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Russian billionaire Vladimir Potanin, president of United Export Import Bank, speaks during a news conference in Sochi, Russia on Feb. 20, 2007.  Photographer: Dmitry Beliakov/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
