-- RWE Shifts Carbon Trading to European Energy Exchange, Curbing ECX Volume
-- Mathew Carr
-- 2010-07-23T17:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/rwe-shifts-some-carbon-trade-to-european-energy-exchange-from-ecx-exchange.html

          
          
             RWE AG, Europe’s biggest emitter,
shifted some of its carbon trading to Germany’s European Energy
Exchange, trimming business handled by the European Climate
Exchange in London.  
 EEX, based in Leipzig, will enable RWE to trade power and
European Union carbon allowances on the same exchange, said  Mats Ahl , head carbon trader for RWE Supply & Trading, a unit of
Germany’s second-largest utility.  
 “The services EEX is offering made us rethink our model,”
Ahl said today in a phone interview. “We are trading more and
more on EEX. We are natural sellers of power and natural buyers
of carbon.”  
 The EEX, the EU’s biggest bourse for power trading, cut
fees for emissions trades by 10 percent starting July 1. The
company, which started offering carbon contracts last month for
delivery in 2013 and 2014, is gaining a bigger share of Europe’s
carbon market, the world’s biggest.  
 The EEX handled 779,000 metric tons of December carbon
dioxide futures, the emissions-trading benchmark, in the past 20
business days, according to exchange data. That’s 6.2 percent of
the average handled by ECX, which was acquired earlier this
month by Intercontinental Exchange Inc. In the 20 days through
May 31, EEX had 0.7 percent of ECX’s volumes on average for that
benchmark.  
 Richard Sandor  agreed to sell ECX parent company Climate
Exchange Plc to  ICE  in April, exiting the biggest carbon market
before he could establish a global mechanism for curbing
greenhouse gas. The deal valued Climate Exchange at 395 million
pounds ($610 million). Company spokesman Lee Underwood declined
to comment immediately on RWE.  
 Margin Expenses  
 Carbon permits fell 1.6 percent to close at 14.02 euros
($18.29) a ton, EEX data show. They have risen 11 percent so far
this year.  
 Traders need to pay a so-called margin to the exchange as a
cover for when prices move against their trades. Carbon and
power prices generally track each other. “So it makes sense to
put these trades on the same exchange,” Ahl said.  
 The EEX extended trading hours for carbon contracts,
following recommendations of a working group that included
utilities and banks, said EEX spokeswoman Eileen Hieke.  
 “We notice an increased trading activity of the existing
EEX trading participants,” Hieke said today by e-mail. “We
have also seen existing members who never traded in our CO2
market before starting now to trade.”  
 Auctions  
 EEX already runs two auctions a week of German carbon
allowances. Germany and the U.K. are among nations that sought
to maintain their own auction platform for the next phase of
trading in the EU cap-and-trade system. The EU plans to hold a
tender to operate the main auction platform.  
 “The ECX will definitely be participating in the process
and hopes to secure the tender,”  Patrick Birley , the outgoing
ECX chief executive officer, said yesterday in an interview in
London. The EEX said July 15 it will bid for the contract to
hold the regional auctions.  
 Electricity trading in western Europe’s seven biggest
markets rose to a fifth consecutive record in 2009 as banks and
utilities including Barclays Capital and  E.ON AG  bought and sold
amid a 40 percent drop in power prices.  
 Volumes in Germany, the Nordic region, Britain, France, the
Netherlands, Spain and Italy increased to 9,944 terawatt-hours
from 9,929 terawatt-hours in 2008, London-based consultant
 Prospex Research Ltd.  said in a report scheduled to be released
today. They have advanced 21 percent since 2005, the data show.  
 RWE said in April it would shift some of its near-term U.K.
power trading focus from over-the-counter deals to Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc. and Nord Pool Spot AS’s N2EX electricity market. The
utility generates as much as 10,000 megawatts, or 8 percent of
U.K.’s generation, from its fossil-fueled stations.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mathew Carr  in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        