-- Sanofi-Aventis Is Said to Make Takeover Approach to Genzyme
-- Elizabeth Lopatto
-- 2010-07-23T20:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/sanofi-aventis-said-to-approach-genzyme-on-takeover-genzyme-shares-climb.html

          
          
             Sanofi-Aventis SA  made a takeover
approach to  Genzyme Corp. , the largest maker of medicines for
genetic diseases, about two weeks ago, said two people with
knowledge of the matter.  
 Sanofi, France’s biggest drugmaker, is waiting for a
response to the approach and hasn’t entered substantive merger
negotiations, said the people, who declined to be named because
the talks are private. The offer values Genzyme at less than $20
billion, they said. Genzyme surged 15 percent to $62.52 at 4
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading.  
 Acquiring Genzyme, the world’s largest maker of medicines
for genetic diseases, would help Sanofi expand in biotechnology.
Sanofi Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  briefed Sanofi’s
board the week of June 28 on plans for a major acquisition in
the U.S., two other people with knowledge of the situation said.  
 “This is plausible, it’s not ridiculous,” said  Geoffrey Porges , an analyst at Sanford Bernstein & Co. in New York, in a
telephone interview today on Sanofi’s potential bid for Genzyme.
He has an  “outperform”  rating on Genzyme.  
 John Lacey , a spokesman for Genzyme, said, “We don’t
comment on rumors and speculation,” in an interview today.
Sanofi spokesman  Jean-Marc Podvin  didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment.  
 Genzyme Surges  
 Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Genzyme’s stock market value
was about $14.5 billion at the close of trading yesterday. The
Wall Street Journal and CNBC reported on the approach earlier
today.  
 Viehbacher is counting on acquisitions to help replace
 revenue  the Paris-based company is losing as its medicines face
competition from lower-priced generic drugs. Sanofi has spent
about $17 billion on 25  acquisitions  since Viehbacher joined the
company in 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The shares of Genzyme,  Allergan Inc.  and  Biogen Idec Inc. 
rallied in U.S. trading on July 2 after Bloomberg reported that
Viehbacher was considering a major acquisition in the U.S.
Allergan dropped $1.49, or 2.4 percent, to $61.07 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. Biogen declined $2.70, or 4.8
percent, to $53.47 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, the biggest
drop since Oct. 23, 2009.  
 ‘Not For Sale’  
 Genzyme Chief Executive Officer  Henri Termeer  said in a
June 14 interview that the company wasn’t for sale. The company
is focused on fixing manufacturing defects that cut into sales
of its biggest products, Termeer said. He is seeking to revive
the drugmaker after sales slumped 2 percent to $4.5 billion last
year, following a virus contamination at Genzyme’s Allston
Landing factory in Boston.  
 Genzyme has said it will spin off three business units.
Sanofi may have reviewed those businesses and decided to buy the
whole company and restructure it, Porges said today.  
 Activist investors  Carl Icahn  and  Ralph Whitworth , both of
whom have representation on Genzyme’s board, will likely push
for a sale, Porges said.  
 Last year, Sanofi acquired  Merck & Co. ’s half of their
Merial animal-health venture for $4 billion, Viehbacher’s
biggest purchase so far. In March, Sanofi bought Chattem Inc.,
the U.S. maker of Gold Bond medicated powder and other non-
prescription health products, for $1.9 billion.  
 Drugmakers have announced about $83.5 billion of
acquisitions in the past year. In the past month, Celgene agreed
to buy Abraxis Bioscience Inc., a maker of drugs for solid-tumor
cancers, for $2.9 billion. Grifols SA struck a $3 billion deal
for Talecris Biotherapeutics Holdings Corp., and Valeant
Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Biovail Corp. signed a merger pact.  
 Amy Reilly , a spokeswoman for Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based Biogen, and  Caroline Van Hove , a spokeswoman for Allergan,
of Irvine, California, said they don’t comment on market rumors.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Chris Viehbacher, chief executive officer of Sanofi-Aventis SA, speaks in Chicago. Photographer: Tim Boyle/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Geoffrey Porges, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., talks about a potential acquisition of Genzyme Corp. by Sanofi-Aventis SA.
     Sanofi, France’s biggest drugmaker, made a takeover approach to Genzyme, the largest maker of medicines for genetic diseases, about two weeks ago, said two people with knowledge of the matter. Porges talks with Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." Bloomberg's Dominic Chu also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
