-- HSBC Forms Energy-Trading Alliance With Total, Europe's Largest Refiner
-- Rachel Graham
-- 2010-07-23T14:54:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/hsbc-forms-energy-trading-alliance-with-total-europe-s-largest-refiner.html

          
          
             HSBC Holdings Plc  and Total SA
formed an alliance to offer energy derivatives to the bank’s
clients, boosting trading flows and market share for Europe’s
largest oil refiner.  
 The venture by Europe’s biggest bank by market value is in
contrast to some of its competitors who enter the energy
business by setting up crude and oil-product trading teams.
Paris-based  Total  said the partnership could help develop its
business in areas such as Asia and Latin America.  
 “The alliance will increase our trading flows,”  Pierre Barbe , President, Trading and Shipping said by phone from
Geneva. “We will be dealing through the bank with people who
are not necessarily our clients today.”  
 Banks such as Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Citigroup Inc.,
Morgan Stanley, and Societe Generale SA are hiring energy
traders amid rising demand in emerging nations for coal, oil and
natural gas. JPMorgan acquired a Bear Stearns & Co. energy unit
in 2008 and RBS Sempra Commodities this year.  
 “This would seem to be a natural extension to HSBC’s fixed
income and commodities business,” said  Mike Trippitt , a London-
based analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd.  
 HSBC will benefit from Total’s experience in managing
exposure to energy by combining physical infrastructure and risk
management capabilities, the London-based bank said in a
statement. HSBC will retain the relationship with its clients
and the associated counterparty risks.  
 Focus on Crude  
 Total, Europe’s second-largest oil company by market value,
will continue to focus on crude and oil products trading, Barbe
said. Crude accounts for about 80 percent of its physical
volumes, with the remainder in oil products, Barbe said.  
 Total is one of the biggest sellers of oil from North Sea,
owning fields which supply crude grades including benchmark
Forties. The company also owns and operates fields in the Gulf
of Mexico, Nigeria and Angola.  
 The companies are finalizing the initial slate of products
and operational platform and expect to offer the first ones in
the next few months, subject to regulatory approvals, according
to the statement. HSBC officials couldn’t be immediately reached
for comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Graham  in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        