-- Schlumberger Fails to Match Halliburton Onshore Gains
-- Edward Klump
-- 2010-07-23T14:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/schlumberger-fails-to-keep-pace-with-halliburton-s-onshore-services-gains.html

          
          
             Schlumberger Ltd. , the market-share
leader for oilfield services in countries outside North America,
failed to match the second-quarter profit gain of its top rival
as energy producers accelerated U.S. onshore exploration.  
 Net income at Schlumberger, based in Houston and Paris,
climbed 33 percent from a year earlier to $818 million, or 68
cents a share, according to a company statement today. Profit
matched the average of 30 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Earlier this week,  Halliburton Co. , the world’s
second-biggest oilfield-services provider, posted an 83 percent
jump in profit and topped  estimates  by 15 cents a share.  
 Both companies increased business outside the Gulf of
Mexico enough to more than make up for a U.S. ban on new deep-
water drilling permits after BP Plc’s record oil spill.
 Halliburton  generated more than half of its earnings in North
America, compared with about 11 percent at Schlumberger.  
 “I didn’t expect them to have the same kind of benefit
that Halliburton did because they have a little bit less
exposure to the U.S. land,” said  Philip Weiss , an analyst at
Argus Research in New York who has a “hold” rating on
Halliburton shares and a “sell” on  Schlumberger . “They did
well in U.S. land, but I guess it wasn’t well enough or there’s
just not enough of it there.”  
 Schlumberger  dropped $1.69, or 2.8 percent, to $59.61 at
10:34 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
Houston-based Halliburton, which was down 0.8 percent today,
jumped 6 percent after its July 19 earnings report.  
 ‘Slow Build’  
 Weatherford International Ltd., the world’s fourth-largest
oilfield contractor, reported earnings July 20 and exceeded
analyst estimates by 4 cents a share. Houston-based  Baker Hughes
Inc. , the No. 3 oilfield-services provider, is scheduled to
release its earnings report on Aug. 3.  
 “Schlumberger had an OK quarter in an environment where
the peers are having better than OK quarters relative to
expectations,” said  Dan Pickering , an analyst at Tudor
Pickering Holt & Co. in Houston whose firm has a “buy” rating
on Schlumberger shares.  
 Schlumberger expects a “continued slow build” in services
demand around the world in this year’s second half, Chief
Executive Officer  Andrew Gould  said in the company’s statement.  
 “Their outlook remains positive but measured,” Pickering
said. “In other words, business isn’t exploding to the upside
but kind of grinding higher.”  
 U.S. Onshore Boom  
 Exploration and production spending by oil companies will
rise 12 percent this year, even as the permit moratorium slows
drilling in the Gulf, Barclays Capital estimated last month.  
 The number of active U.S. onshore rigs jumped 76 percent
from a year earlier at the end of June to a 17-month high as
producers increasingly targeted oil and natural-gas deposits
trapped in shale formations and so-called tight sands.  
 Schlumberger plans to add more North American work through
its agreement announced in February to buy Houston-based  Smith
International Inc.  The companies are partners on the M-I Swaco
drilling-fluids joint venture. About half of Smith’s first-
quarter revenue came from North America.  
 Schlumberger  derived about 17 percent of its revenue from
North America last year, compared with 39 percent at
Halliburton, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Baker
Hughes and  Weatherford  were at 37 percent and 31 percent,
respectively.  
 Overseas Push  
 Halliburton opened a Middle East headquarters in Dubai and
added technology centers in Russia and Asia in 2008 to help
reduce its reliance on North American markets. It stock has
historically traded at a lower price-to-earnings  ratio  than
 Schlumberger , partly on Schlumberger’s superior overseas growth.  
 Halliburton remains the market-share leader in onshore oil
and gas services in North America. Schlumberger cut about 12,000
jobs between mid-2008 and early 2010 and plans to eliminate some
overlapping corporate  staffing  after buying Smith. Halliburton
added 1,700 jobs in the second quarter and 1,200 in the first
quarter.  
 “The rebound in North America was key to Halliburton,”
said  Brian Youngberg , an analyst at Edward Jones in St. Louis
who has “buy” ratings on Halliburton and Schlumberger shares.
“While they’re trying to close the gap internationally with
Schlumberger, for the time being, North America is leading their
strong rebound.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edward Klump  in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Schlumberger Ltd. chief executive officer Andrew Gould. Photographer: Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Andrew Gould, chairman and chief executive officer of Schlumberger Ltd., speaks in Houston, Texas. Photographer: F. Carter Smith/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
