-- SEC Grants Six-Month Delay for Ratings Disclosure on Asset-Backed Bonds
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-07-23T04:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/sec-grants-six-month-delay-for-ratings-disclosure-on-asset-backed-bonds.html

          
          
             The Securities and Exchange
Commission will allow issuers of asset-backed bonds to omit
credit ratings from filings for six months, helping them adjust
to rules passed into law this week as part of the financial
regulations overhaul.  
 “This action will provide issuers, rating agencies and
other market participants with a transition period in order to
implement changes to comply,”  Meredith Cross , the director of
the SEC’s division of corporate finance, said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement.  
 The most sweeping regulatory legislation for Wall Street
since the Great Depression, signed into law by President  Barack Obama  on July 21, makes ratings companies vulnerable to lawsuits
when underwriters include their assessments in documents used to
sell debt. The law subjects firms such as Moody’s Investors
Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings to so-called expert
liability, meaning they would face the same legal risks as
accountants and other parties that participate in bond sales.  
 Under the new law, issuers weren’t able to obtain
permission from ratings firms to include their rankings in their
registration filings, according to the SEC.  
 As a result, sales were held up, said  Malcolm Dorris , a
senior partner in the securitization group at law firm Dechert
LLP. Companies were considering alternatives to the public
markets, such as selling in the 144a market, where sales aren’t
registered with the SEC, Dorris said.  
 Ford Sale Canceled  
 Ford Motor Co.’s finance arm canceled a planned sale of
asset-backed debt, the Wall Street Journal reported July 21 on
its website, citing market participants it didn’t name.  
 Brenda Hines , a spokeswoman for Ford Motor Credit, declined
to comment.  
 Fitch Ratings remains concerned that including its rankings
in prospectuses and registration statements under the new law
may expose the firm to expert liability, though the SEC action
should offer market participants a window to modify practices as
appropriate, spokesman  David Weinfurter  said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 “We strongly support efforts to remove ratings from
regulation and will continue to work with regulators and market
participants to implement relevant aspects of the Dodd-Frank
bill as quickly as possible,” said  Michael Adler , a Moody’s
spokesman.  
 Ed Sweeney , an S&P spokesman, declined to comment.  
 Legislative Struggle  
 The financial overhaul, capping a year-long legislative
struggle, was spurred by the 2008 financial crisis that
triggered the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
dragging down Wall Street and the U.S. economy. Obama vowed the
law will bring an end to taxpayer bailouts of financial firms
and said adjustments to the regulations may have to be made
along the way.  
 Investors including public pension funds have accused the
ratings firms of helping to fuel the financial crisis by giving
top rankings to mortgage bonds that plunged in value when the
U.S. housing market collapsed in 2007. Congress scrutinized the
companies at hearings.  
 Driving issuance toward the private market would be
counterproductive because regulators would lose jurisdiction
over the offerings, said  Richard D’Albert , co-chief investment
officer at Seer Capital Management LLC, a New York-based hedge
fund specializing in asset-backed securities.  
 “I don’t think this is a permanent solution because on
some level it skirts the intent of Congress to make the rating
agencies more accountable,” D’Albert said.  
 An additional section of the law, unrelated to the use of
credit grades in offering documents, is set to also increase the
dangers for ratings firms by changing the “pleading” standards
for securities fraud lawsuits, Moody’s said in a July 15
statement. It says they must conduct “a reasonable
investigation” of facts about deals or have one done by an
independent source, to avoid potential legal risk.  
 “Moody’s is exploring various ways of addressing this
revised pleading standard,” which applies to all securities
types, the company said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah Mulholland  in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net ;
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        