-- Senator Kerry Says Democrats May Take Up Broad Climate Plan (Transcript)
-- 
-- 2010-07-23T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/senator-kerry-says-democrats-may-take-up-broad-climate-plan-transcript-.html

          
          
             Senator John Kerry of
Massachusetts said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with Al Hunt” airing this
weekend that Democrats still may take up a comprehensive
climate-change plan after the November elections.  
 (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  
 AL HUNT: And we begin the program with the Chairman of
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, John Kerry.
Senator, you were the architect of the most - one of the
most ambitious energy bills. It now appears that that may
be dead. The calendar is short, would you bring up
Kerry/Lieberman in the lame duck session after the voters
have voted?  
 SENATOR JOHN KERRY: I think what we have to do, Al, is
work over these next weeks to see if we find 60 votes. We
don’t have one Republican - not one Republican in the
United States Senate has stepped forward even though
several say they believe in pricing carbon because there is
basically sort of a political shutdown going on here in
Washington.  
 And so, you know, we are not going to ask colleagues
to go through something for nothing here. I think we have
to try to find and continue to find the 60 votes.  
 HUNT: But when you talk about -  
 KERRY: But let me just say to you it is not dead, not
by any sense of the imagination. First of all, this issue
is not going away.  
 HUNT: Including the possibility of a lame duck
session?  
 KERRY: Including the possibility of a lame duck, sure,
absolutely.  
 HUNT: Okay.  
 KERRY: When we think it is possible to pass this,
Senator Reid is prepared to bring it forward. The president
today committed very, very strongly to me and to Senator
Reid and others that he is going to be personally engaged
in helping to try to find this coalition. We are going to
see if it is possible for the interests of our country -
not party, this is not Democrat or Republican.  
 We are losing jobs to China. We are losing to India.
We are losing to other countries because we are not in the
game. We need to get into the alternative, renewable
energy, energy efficiency, and the best way to do it is by
pricing carbon, send a signal to the market, let the
marketplace do this.  
 HUNT: Let me get to the president in a moment, but you
talked about the Republicans. Fair enough, it is certainly
right. But Ben Nelson, Mary Landrieu, Jay Rockefeller -  
 KERRY: Well, Mary Landrieu is prepared to be
supportive. And others are prepared to -  
 HUNT: But Rockefeller, Nelson, Dorgan -  
 KERRY: We have a couple of people who don’t support
the bill -  
 HUNT: But I mean -  
 KERRY: - with their ideas.  
 HUNT: - wasn’t it your own party that cut the legs out
from Kerry/Lieberman?  
 KERRY: We have several Republicans who have indicated
the possibility. Look, are we supposed to do this all
alone?  
 HUNT: Right.  
 KERRY: You need one or two Democrats. You can’t live
in a difficult state and respond to that reality, where
others in the country could have stepped up? I do not
accept that. We have well over 50 votes, Al, to proceed
forward in one fashion or another.  
 HUNT: Right.  
 KERRY: And the question now is whether or not we can
get together. It is the getting together that is proving
difficult.  
 But I have to tell you, this is not dead. We are going
to continue to work. It may well be that after the election
- if that is what happens - I mean we will continue to try
over the next weeks, but if it is after the election, it
may well be that some members are free and liberated and
feeling that they can take a risk or do something. Or, you
know, the whole political landscape may have changed in
some way. I don’t know.  
 HUNT: You mentioned the president a moment ago. Some
environmentalists have been very critical of the White
House for not being aggressive enough on this. What
specifically do you want President Obama to do now? You
said he has committed to you. What do you want him to do?  
 KERRY: Well, I think we have to have some key meetings
with key players from the utilities and others to bring
people together, including senators, to work towards the
kind of compromise that is necessary here. People have to
know it really counts.  
 HUNT: And he has to be part of that?  
 KERRY: People - yes, I believe the White House has to
be part of that. He doesn’t have to be part of every
meeting. But I think it is important for him to weigh in
with some colleagues, to be - even to go to some of the
difficult states at the right moment and talk to people
about why -  
 HUNT: So public and private?  
 KERRY: - this is important for America.  
 HUNT: You are going to bring a scaled back version to
the Senate floor I gather in the next -  
 KERRY: Well, I would not even call it a scaled back
version. We are bringing what Harry Reid has determined
represents a bipartisan offering that we could do without a
lot of complications that gets us started.  
 HUNT: And what do you think the Senate will do on the
oil, on the cap, the liability cap on oil? Something that
is really -  
 KERRY: Well, I think we ought to look -  
 HUNT: Will you eliminate it or just raise it?  
 KERRY: Well, I think we ought to raise it.  
 HUNT: And raise it to what?  
 KERRY: Oh, I’m not going to throw out a casual number,
but I think we ought to find out what the political market
here and the Senate will bear and get to a realistic
figure.  
 HUNT: Okay.  
 KERRY: But I think most people agree that $75 million
is -  
 HUNT: But more likely to raise it than eliminate it?  
 KERRY: Oh, I would think so.  
 HUNT: Okay. Let me ask you about Afghanistan. You have
spent a lot of time, you have been very, very involved in
that, and you have raised recently the possibility we may -
that we could have to slow down that troop withdrawal
schedule - the beginning of troop withdrawal schedule for
next year.  
 In last week’s Bloomberg poll, three out of five
Americans said it was a lost cause. You have acknowledged
that that sentiment exists. Should the U.S. be considering
then also perhaps accelerating the withdrawal rather than
slowing it down?  
 KERRY: No, I think what the U.S. needs to do - what we
need to do is get a policy that works. Make sure that what
we are doing works. That is what the American people want.
We have very legitimate national security interests.  
 HUNT: Do we have a clear policy now?  
 KERRY: I think we have a clearer policy. I am not sure
it is fine tuned enough to some of the needs that we have.
And I do think it is possible that it might need to be
changed somewhat. That does not mean it is not clear. I
think what we are doing -  
 HUNT: What do you mean by change? Can you give me a
sense of -  
 KERRY: Well, I think that the governance component of
this is not yet adequate. And -  
 HUNT: Well, when I talked to you eight months ago, I
remember we interviewed you, and you talked about Karzai
then and you were pretty darn supportive. You said he was
prepared to embrace reforms. You have a very - you know him
well.  
 More recently, you have questioned that government’s -
I am quoting you, “willingness to assume ownership,” and
you said Karzai must do bigger lifting. Are you
disappointed in Karzai?  
 KERRY: I am disappointed that not enough of the reform
agenda has been implemented in Afghanistan. And there is
too much corruption within the government itself at various
levels. We will be releasing a report shortly in the
Foreign Relations Committee that will lay out the specifics
of some of that corruption and make some recommendations
about it. So that part of things does disappoint me.  
 What I also think has not happened sufficiently is a
linking of Afghan presence to any military operation also
linked to the presence of Afghan governance ability also
linked to the civilian construction and development
ability. The three components - I laid those components
out, Al, months ago when the president - before the
president even announced what he was going to do.  
 I said there are three requisites to any kind of
additional military operation. One, Afghan presence in the
operation; two, sufficient governance capacity at a local
level that is identified and present and ready to go
immediately underneath the operation; and three, you have
got to have a civilian development and construction
capacity come in underneath that. We have not had that.  
 And I think that - I think there are the possibilities
of transforming this still in a way that keeps the
commitment, which I think is important, but which does not
do it in a way that leaves as many questions unanswered or
as many doubts in people’s minds -  
 HUNT: Another key -  
 KERRY: - about what is feasible.  
 HUNT: Another key issue for your committee is the
proposed treaty with Russia to cut nuclear weapons. What
are the odds the Senate will pass that before the November
elections?  
 KERRY: I don’t want to get into the odds-making on it.
What is important is the Senate will pass it.  
 HUNT: This year?  
 KERRY: I believe we will pass it this year.  
 HUNT: Okay.  
 KERRY: And we are going to press very hard to meet the
concerns of many of our colleagues on the Republican side
who want to have certain questions answered, which we have
requested and they are coming in now - those answers. They
want a certain kind of access, whether it is a summary or
otherwise is being negotiated -  
 HUNT: Right.  
 KERRY: - on the negotiating record. And they want
assurances with respect to the modernization program on
nuclear weapons. They ought to have that and we are willing
- you know, I am going to try and get two out of three of
those and the third is really up to the administration. The
question on the negotiating record is the administration’s
decision.  
 HUNT: Right. Your committee is going to hold a hearing
on whether BP pressured the British government to release
the Lockerbie terrorist. David Cameron acknowledges that
was a mistake, but says Congress really should not hold an
inquiry on this. You are not going to get the guy back.
What can you achieve from a hearing?  
 KERRY: Well, I think what he said - I think what he
said is that there should not be an investigation. We are
not engaged in an investigation.  
 HUNT: So what do you think you will accomplish?  
 KERRY: They are having a hearing. Well, when
colleagues of mine who I respect greatly - some of them
members of the committee, some of them not - all of them
write me letters of concern about their constituents who
have deep concerns about what happened. I believe you have
to honor that and listen to it and respect it and provide
them the opportunity they’ll get some answers.  
 I have families in Massachusetts who were just
devastated by the release of Megrahi. It was just beyond
comprehension. They deserve answers. So do the families in
New Jersey, in New York, in Connecticut and elsewhere where
senators have said they want to find out what happened.  
 I think they are doing their job on behalf of their
constituents and we need to do that. Now it is not going to
be a circus. We are not going to allow it become some kind
of a zoo. It will be a dignified and appropriate
questioning of appropriate people to find out on behalf of
those families what happened. And that’s all. I think it is
a question of transparency in governance. Let the sun shine
in. People have a right to know and I think that is what we
are trying to achieve.  
 HUNT: Mr. Chairman, thank you so much for being with
us. When we come back, we’ll talk to our reporters about
the new financial regulation bill.  
 ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  
 THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY
CONTAIN MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS
TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED “AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND. BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO
THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL,
NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-
PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN THIS
TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES IN
CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION
EXPRESSED IN THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF
THE PURCHASE OR SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY
OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG LP.  
 #<610771.1204164.2.1.46.17993.25>#
-0- Jul/23/2010 10:00 GMT
  
          
          


  


        