-- Senate Passes U.S. War Bill Without State Aid for Teachers Sought by House
-- Brian Faler
-- 2010-07-23T04:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/senate-passes-u-s-war-bill-without-state-aid-for-teachers-sought-by-house.html

          
          
             The U.S. Senate approved a $60
billion measure to fund the troop buildup in Afghanistan after
refusing to include $10 billion in state aid sought by the House
to prevent an estimated 140,000 teacher layoffs.  
 The House plan, which the Obama administration had
threatened to veto, was blocked late yesterday on a 46-51
procedural vote, with 60 needed. The Senate then voted
unanimously to pass its version of the war bill and send it to
the House for approval.  
 “The funding included by our colleagues in the House of
Representatives for education jobs is critical,” said Senate
Appropriations Committee Chairman  Daniel Inouye , a Hawaii
Democrat. Still, he said “we cannot delay further the funds
necessary to ensure that our servicemen and women have
everything they need to do their jobs.”  
 The Obama administration had threatened to veto the House
version because it would partly finance the aid to states by
rescinding $800 million provided last year to the Department of
Education, including money for a grant program that is one of
its top educational priorities.  
 The Senate dropped a House provision that would have
restricted brand-name drug companies from paying generic-drug
makers to delay putting lower-priced pharmaceuticals on the
market. That proposal was intended to cut drug costs in
government health-care programs, freeing up money for aid to
states.  
 The Senate also cut $5 billion for Pell college tuition
grants, $1 billion to promote summer jobs for teens and $700
million to improve border security.  
 Defense Secretary  
 Lawmakers are under pressure to complete the legislation
before their August recess. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said
he may have to furlough some staff if he doesn’t receive the
money by mid-August.  
 About half of the measure passed by the Senate would pay
for the troop surge in Afghanistan. Another $13.4 billion would
pay for an expansion of the number of ailments presumed to be
tied to use of the defoliant Agent Orange during the Vietnam
War. Another $5 billion would go to disaster relief.  
 Republicans opposed the added aid to states.  
 “We’re losing sight of the purpose of these war
supplemental bills,” said Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican. “They are not for funding
projects that won’t pass elsewhere.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        