-- Seven EU Banks Fail Tests With $4.5 Billion Shortfall
-- Charles Penty
-- 2010-07-23T19:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/seven-of-91-eu-banks-fail-stress-test-face-4-5-billion-capital-shortfall.html

          
          
             Seven of the 91 European Union banks
subject to stress tests failed with a combined capital shortfall
of 3.5 billion euros ($4.5 billion), stirring concern the
evaluations were too lenient.  
 Hypo Real Estate Holding AG , Agricultural Bank of Greece SA
and five Spanish savings banks have insufficient reserves to
maintain a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6 percent in the
event of a recession and sovereign-debt crisis, lenders and
regulators said today.  
 The banks are in “close contact” with national
authorities over the results and the need for more capital, said
the Committee of European Banking Supervisors, which coordinated
the tests. Governments are seeking to reassure investors about
the health of financial institutions after the debt crisis
pummeled the bonds of Greece, Spain and Portugal.  
 “The amount of capital needed is much lower than the
market expected,” said  Mike Lenhoff , London-based chief
strategist at Brewin Dolphin Securities Ltd., whose parent
company oversees $33 billion. “The amount does seem quite
trivial considering the concerns about losses from the sovereign
crisis.”  
 Part of the reason the amount of capital needed was lower
than analysts predicted may be because the evaluations took into
account potential losses only on government bonds the banks
trade, rather than those they are holding to maturity. That
means the tests ignored the majority of banks’ holdings of
sovereign debt.  
 What’s more, European banks have raised 220 billion euros
in the last 15 to 18 months, which dwarfs the amount of money
that U.S. banks raised following their stress tests, Credit
Suisse Group AG analysts said in a note this week.  
 Test Criteria  
 Still, estimates for the amount banks would need to raise
ranged from 30 billion euros at Nomura Holdings Inc. to as much
as 85 billion euros at Barclays Capital. Tests carried out in
the U.S. last year found 10 lenders including  Bank of America
Corp.  and Citigroup Inc. needed to raise $74.6 billion of
capital.  
 “The long awaited stress tests do not seem to have been
that stressful after all,” said  Gary Jenkins , an analyst at
Evolution Securities Ltd., in a note. “The most controversial
area surrounds the treatment of the banks’ sovereign debt
holdings.”  
 The results were released after the close of European stock
markets. The euro was little changed against the dollar, falling
0.02 percent to $1.2896 as of 7:39 p.m. in London.  
 Bond Losses  
 Regulators tested portfolios of sovereign five-year bonds,
assuming a loss of 23.1 percent on Greek debt, 12.3 percent on
Spanish bonds, 14 percent on Portuguese bonds and 4.7 percent on
German state debt, according to CEBS.  
 The tests also assessed the impact of a four-step credit
rating downgrade on securitized debt products, a 20 percent
slump in  European equities  in both 2010 and 2011 and 50 other
macroeconomic parameters, including an economic contraction in
the EU, according to CEBS.  
 In Germany,  Hypo Real Estate , the commercial-property
lender rescued by the government following the financial crisis,
was the only bank to fail among the 14 that were tested. Its
capital ratio dropped to 4.7 percent in the most severe
scenario, said the Bundesbank and the nation’s financial
regulator, BaFin.  
 The German bank has a capital shortfall of about 1.25
billion euros. An “immediate need for capital would arise only
if the hypothetical stress scenario actually did materialize,”
the Bundesbank and BaFin said. Germany’s Soffin bank-rescue fund
already provided Hypo Real Estate with more than 7 billion euros
in funds through the end of June.  
 Spanish Banks  
 Agricultural Bank of Greece, 77 percent owned by the Greek
state, reported a shortfall of 242.6 million euros and said it
would proceed with a share capital increase.  
 Spain, with 27 tested banks, makes up the biggest portion
of the exams. The savings banks that failed were CajaSur; a
merger group led by Caixa Catalunya; a group led by Caixa
Sabadell; Caja Duero-Caja Espana, and Banca Civica. Spain’s
largest bank,  Banco Santander SA , maintained its Tier 1 capital
ratio at 10 percent under the most stringent scenario.  
 The savings banks have a combined capital shortfall of
about 2 billion euros, according to documents posted on the CEBS
website. Bank of Spain Governor  Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez 
said the central bank will set a deadline for savings banks to
raise new capital privately, before turning to public funds. The
end of the year would be a reasonable deadline, although it
could be brought forward, he said. Banca Civica today announced
plans to raise 450 million euros by selling bonds convertible
into shares to J.C. Flowers & Co., a U.S. buyout firm.  
 Near the Threshold  
 Banks that showed a drop in capital to near the 6 percent
threshold include Greece’s Piraeus Bank SA, with a ratio of 6
percent, Allied Irish Banks Plc, with 6.5 percent, Italy’s Monte
Dei Paschi di Siena SpA, with 6.2 percent, and Nova Ljubljanska
Banka in Slovenia, with 6.3 percent.  
 Norddeutsche Landesbank, a German state-owned lender, and
 Deutsche Postbank AG , the German retail bank partially owned by
Deutsche Bank AG, reported ratios of 6.2 percent and 6.6
percent, respectively, in the sovereign-shock scenario.  
 In France,  BNP Paribas , Societe Generale SA,  Credit
Agricole  and BPCE SA each have enough capital to outlast an
economic slump and a sovereign debt crisis, the Bank of France
said. In Britain,  HSBC Holdings Plc , Barclays Plc, Lloyds
Banking Group Plc, and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc passed
the tests, the Financial Services Authority said.  
 The evaluations, which came two years after the U.S.
subprime mortgage crisis roiled global financial markets, cover
65 percent of the EU banking industry.  
 Publication of stress-test results in the U.S. helped lift
the  Standard & Poor’s Financials Index  36 percent from the start
of May through the end of last year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jann Bettinga  in Frankfurt at 
 jbettinga@bloomberg.net ;
 Charles Penty  in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Hypo Real Estate Holding AG company headquarters sits in Munich, Germany. Photographer: Guenter Schiffmann/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Spanish Deputy Finance Minister Jose Manuel Campa talks with Bloomberg's Manus Cranny about the results of the European Union's bank stress tests.
     Campa says the publication of Spain’s stress tests would help build confidence, even as he doesn’t expect a big market reaction to the data. Campa speaks on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Komal Sri-Kumar, chief global strategist at TCW Group Inc., discusses the European Union bank stress test's and the U.S. budget deficit.
     Sri Kumar talks with Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
