-- Singapore May Require Further `Calibration' of Monetary Policy, IMF Says
-- Sandrine Rastello
-- 2010-07-23T16:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/singapore-may-require-further-calibration-of-monetary-policy-imf-says.html

          
          
             Singapore’s inflation is likely to
accelerate and policy makers should stay vigilant on the outlook
for growth and prices, which may require the “further
calibration” of monetary policy, the International Monetary
Fund said.  
 The city-state’s exchange rate regime remains
“appropriate,” the board of directors said in a statement
concluding a July 16 meeting and released yesterday. In its
annual assessment of the country’s economy discussed by the
board, the IMF staff said the Singapore dollar appears
“somewhat weaker” than its medium-term equilibrium level.  
 Singapore expanded at a record pace in the first six months
of 2010, putting the economy in contention for the world’s
fastest-growing this year. The central bank uses the Singapore
dollar instead of interest rates to manage inflation, and on
April 14 allowed a revaluation and shifted to a stance of
gradual appreciation.  
 “The return to a modest and gradual appreciation of the
Singapore dollar in nominal effective terms is consistent with
internal and external stability,” the IMF said. “Directors
pointed out that changes in the outlook for growth or inflation
warrant vigilance and could call for a further recalibration of
monetary policy in the period ahead.”  
 The IMF said that the currency “would likely strengthen in
real effective terms over time” amid an expanding economy and
policies to boost productivity growth.  
 Growth Forecast  
 The Washington-based IMF expects economic growth of 9.9
percent this year, after a contraction of 1.3 percent in 2009,
and expansion of 4.9 percent in 2011.  
 The fund welcomed the authorities’ move to contain risks in
some property markets and urged them to monitor the situation
closely.  
 Singapore’s private home prices surpassed the previous all-
time peak achieved in 1996, after they rose 5.3 percent in the
second quarter following a 5.6 percent gain in the first three
months of the year, according to data released this month from
the Urban Redevelopment Authority.  
 Policies makers should “build on the measures already
taken if necessary” in the property market, the IMF staff said
in the report.  
 “Directors also noted that because of the special features
of Singapore’s economy, building strong foreign exchange and
fiscal reserve buffers has been a central element of economic
strategy which has served the country well,” the IMF said.
“They considered that, over time, a slower pace of reserve
accumulation could be expected given Singapore’s demographic
profile going forward.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        