-- Singapore Bourse Considers Scrapping Midday Trading Break, CEO Bocker Says
-- Jonathan Burgos
-- 2010-07-23T08:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/singapore-bourse-considers-scrapping-midday-trading-break-ceo-bocker-says.html

          
          
             Singapore Exchange Ltd. , operator of
the city’s derivatives and securities exchange, is mulling the
possibility of scrapping its midday trading break, Chief
Executive Officer  Magnus Bocker  told reporters today.  
 Eliminating the break could boost trading volumes by
between 8 percent to 10 percent, Bocker said at a lunch
organized by the Foreign Correspondents Association of Singapore.
Discussions with stockbrokers are on-going, he said.  
 “I hope there will be a good acceptance of continuous
trading,” Bocker said. “We need to cater to a larger and
broader international market.”  
 The removal of the bourse’s trading break -- reported
yesterday by the Today newspaper -- will add Singapore to
Australia, South Korea, the Philippines, India, Sri Lanka and
Bangladesh to the list of Asia-Pacific markets that trade
without an interval. Singapore’s  trading day  runs from 9 a.m. to
12:30 p.m. local time, followed by a 90 minute break and an
afternoon session between 2 p.m. and 5 p.m.  
 The value of stock traded in Singapore daily on average in
the past three months has tumbled 16 percent from the same
period a year earlier as Europe’s debt crisis and China’s steps
to curb property prices fueled concern that global economic
growth will slow. That compares with a 17 percent decline for
 Hong Kong , and a 29 percent drop for  Malaysia .  
 No Change  
 Removing the trading break won’t boost trading volumes by
much because the brokers and investors who trade in the market
will remain the same, leaving demand for Singaporean equities
little changed, according to  Toshihiko Takamoto , a Singapore-
based portfolio manager who helps oversee about $600 million in
assets at Diam Co.  
 “It may attract private investors on their lunch break,
but it would generate more volume if the exchange extends its
trading hours past the current close to catch European
investors,” Takamoto said.  
 Bocker also said the bourse has a “good pipeline” of
initial public offerings and that companies may list once market
sentiment stabilizes. The benchmark  Straits Times Index  is down
1.6 percent from its high this year on April 14.  
 Malaysia’s Mewah Group is among companies that have
announced plans to list in Singapore. The vegetable oils company
is planning an IPO to raise S$250 million ($182 million) to
S$400 million, Chief Financial Officer Rajesh Chopra said on
July 5.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        