-- Singapore's Consumer Prices Rise a Sixth Month on Transport, Housing Costs
-- Shamim Adam
-- 2010-07-23T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/singapore-s-consumer-prices-rise-a-sixth-month-on-transport-housing-costs.html

          
          
             Singapore’s  consumer prices  rose for
a sixth month in June as an increase in car and electricity
prices pushed transportation and housing costs higher.  
 The consumer price index climbed 2.7 percent from a year
earlier, Singapore’s Department of Statistics said in a
statement today. That was less than the 3.5 percent median
estimate of eight economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News. Prices
fell 1 percent from May, without adjusting for seasonal factors.  
 Singapore  expanded  at a record pace in the first six months
of 2010, putting the economy in contention for the world’s
fastest-growing this year. Faster inflation this year may prompt
the central bank to maintain a policy of allowing the currency
to appreciate to contain prices at its next review in October.  
 “You have to nip the inflation threat as quick as
possible,”  Geoff Howie , a senior vice president at MF Global
Singapore Ltd., part of the world’s largest broker of exchange-
traded futures and options, said before the report. “We see
more gradual and modest appreciation” of the Singapore dollar.  
 The Monetary Authority of Singapore, which uses the
currency instead of interest rates to conduct monetary policy,
said in April it would undertake a one-time revaluation of the
currency and allow a gradual and modest appreciation. Inflation
will probably average between 2.5 percent and 3.5 percent this
year, the central bank said.  
 Housing prices, the biggest component of the consumer price
index, climbed 2.3 percent from a year earlier, and transport
costs increased 10.3 percent. Food prices rose 1.2 percent.  
 The cost of buying cars and motorcycles has surged as
rising demand and falling supply caused the prices for some
vehicle permits to more than double since the end of December.
Singapore controls pollution and congestion on its roads by
selling a limited number of permits every year for each category
of vehicles.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        