-- STMicroelectronics Posts Second-Quarter Profit as Auto Revenue Increase
-- Matthew Campbell
-- 2010-07-23T09:52:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/stmicroelectronics-posts-second-quarter-profit-as-auto-revenue-increase.html

          
          
             STMicroelectronics NV , Europe’s
largest semiconductor maker, posted a second-quarter profit as
sales surged in its auto, consumer and industrial segments.  
 Net income was $356 million, compared with a net loss of
$318 million a year earlier, the Geneva-based  company  said in a
statement today after the close of trading in New York.
Excluding items, profit was 18 cents a share, in line with the
average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales 
rose to $2.53 billion from $1.99 billion.  
 For the rest of the year orders are “building up very
nicely,” Chief Executive Officer  Carlo Bozotti  said on a
conference call with reporters. “There’s a solid buildup of
the backlog, and we are very pleased to see this is very much
across the board.”  
 Semiconductor producers are returning to growth as demand
climbs for consumer electronics and cars that require computer
chips.  Intel Corp. , the world’s biggest chipmaker, on July 13
forecast third-quarter sales of about $11.6 billion, topping
analysts’ estimates.  
 STMicroelectronics  fell as much as 4.1 percent in Milan
after its ST-Ericsson unit reported a loss. The stock traded
3.9 percent lower at 6.485 euros at 11:50 a.m.  
 Chipmakers and the manufacturers that rely on their
products have struggled to complete orders this year as a rapid
increase in demand constrained supplies. Hitachi Ltd. had
trouble supplying electronic controls to Nissan Motor Co.
because of a lack of chips, Nikkei reported July 14.  
 “Demand has actually come back quite quickly,” and is
likely to remain strong as inventories are rebuilt, Adrien
Bommelaer, an analyst at Piper Jaffray in London, said by
phone. “I don’t expect a hard landing.”  
 Increasing Capacity  
 Alcatel-Lucent SA , the largest French telecommunications
equipment manufacturer, blamed a first-quarter loss on a lack
of basic components including semiconductors.  
 “The demand is very, very strong and we and our
competitors are not always able to serve all of the demand,”
Bozotti said today. The company is boosting capacity at
European facilities to increase production, he said.  
 STMicroelectronics’ gross margin, the percentage of
revenue remaining after manufacturing costs, was 38.3 percent,
compared with 26.1 percent a year earlier.  
 Revenue will increase 13 percent to 19 percent in the
third quarter, Bozotti said in the statement. That equates to
as much as $2.71 billion, compared with an average estimate of
$2.63 billion, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Growth Forecast  
 Sales of chips, used in products from mobile phones to
television set-top boxes and washing machines, are picking up
after the global recession cut demand for consumer goods. In
April, Bozotti predicted the company’s market may grow 15
percent to 20 percent this year.  
 In June, the  Semiconductor Industry Association  and
researcher  Gartner Inc.  raised their forecasts for global sales
of microchips this year to growth of 28 percent and 27 percent,
respectively.  
 ST-Ericsson, a 50-50 joint venture with Ericsson AB that
makes chips used in mobile phones, said in a separate statement
its second-quarter loss narrowed to $139 million from $213
million a year earlier. Clients of ST-Ericsson include  Nokia
Oyj  and  Samsung Electronics Co. , the world’s top two handset
makers.  
 STMicroelectronics’s  sales  to the automotive market
advanced 48 percent, consumer sales climbed 42 percent,
telecommunications sales retreated 3 percent, and industrial
sales increased 43 percent, according to the statement.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chiara Remondini  in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Campbell  in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        