-- Stocks to Mirror '66-82 as Debt Purge Kills Growth, Bedlam's Compton Says
-- Alexis Xydias
-- 2010-07-23T05:50:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/stocks-to-mirror-66-82-as-debt-purge-kills-growth-bedlam-s-compton-says.html

          
          
             Stocks will stagnate for years as
governments cut spending and financial stimulus measures,
according to  Jonathan Compton , the manager who sold bank shares
in September 2007 after warning markets would “break down.”  
 Stocks may mirror the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  from
1966 to 1982, when the U.S. benchmark gauge failed to make
progress after swinging between gains and losses, Bedlam Asset
Management’s Compton said. Record levels of sovereign debt will
likely trigger higher interest rates and defaults, sending bonds
into a “tail spin” and creating a “gale-force headwind” for
stocks, according to Bedlam, which gets its name from a British
hospital for the mentally ill.  
 “We are clearly in a prolonged period of very anemic
economic growth,” Compton, 57, who helps oversee about $600
million, said in an interview from London. “Economies and
business have to adjust to the end of a prolonged period of
government support and easy credit. It is non-negotiable that
the outlook for leading governments, thus all debt markets and
hence many other asset classes, is poor.”  
 Reports this month on U.S. manufacturing, employment and
home sales have triggered concern that growth will slow in the
second half of the year, just as governments from the U.K. to
Spain cut spending and record-low borrowing costs stop central
banks from further lowering interest rates to stimulate the
economy. The  MSCI World Index  has fallen 4.9 percent in 2010.  
 Drastic Measures  
 Compton said that his strategy was influenced by a March
paper on public debt from the Bank for International Settlements
in Basel, Switzerland, which said that “drastic measures are
necessary to check the rapid growth of current and future
liabilities of governments and reduce their adverse consequences
for long-term growth and monetary stability.”  
 Aiming to avoid the problems of Greece, which was forced
into a bailout from the European Union and International
Monetary Fund, European governments are leading the trend in
cutting spending. The U.K. has embarked on what the government
calls the biggest budget cuts in peacetime.  
 Compton’s  Bedlam Global Fund  has about 14 percent in shares
of producers of precious metals including gold in a bet that
investors seeking protection against an economic downturn will
boost the value of the commodity, he said. Companies that rely
on government spending and those that are highly indebted are
“toxic,” he said.  
 Gnashing of Teeth  
 Concerned by a “cross-infection” of financial markets as
a credit boom ended, Compton sold all financial and property
companies in September 2007 and hoarded 21 percent of his fund
in cash. Banks and real-estate stocks accounted for 24 percent
of the  MSCI World  in September 2007, and 25 percent of the fund
in January 2007.  
 “Despite a gnashing of teeth equity markets continue to
move in an upward trading channel,” Bedlam wrote in its monthly
bulletin on Jan. 10, 2007. “At some point in the first half of
2007, we expect them to break down, possibly sooner rather than
later.” The Dow peaked at 14,164.53 on Oct. 9, 2007 and fell 54
percent through March 9, 2009 as the subprime-debt crisis
triggered the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  
 The  Bedlam Global Fund , which accounts for three quarters
of the company’s assets under management, held no bank shares
through 2009 and now has less than 2.5 percent of total assets
in financials, documents show.  
 Make Money  
 Investors can still make money in equities, as long as they
buy companies “with leading industry positions,” Compton wrote
in a report in April. Stocks will also benefit from “rampant
takeover activity,” he added.  
 The fund owns shares in consumer-staples companies
including Sara Lee Corp., the maker of Jimmy Dean foods, and
also  Central Japan Railway Co. , which Compton says isn’t
affected by government spending.  
 About 17 percent of the fund’s assets are in industrial
companies, data as of July 12 shows. Consumer-staples and
pharmaceuticals companies follow with 16 percent and 14 percent
holdings, respectively. The fund has 5 percent of assets in
cash.  
 The fund, measured in pounds, fell 15 percent in 2008 and
rose 3.3 percent in 2009. The MSCI World, valued in dollars,
slumped 42 percent in 2008 and rallied 27 percent the following
year. The Bedlam Global fund was  down  2.7 percent this year
through July 16.  
 Debt Upon Debt  
 Faced with “waning” credit growth and a “stuttering”
economic recovery, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
“will attempt one last heave with ‘Quantitative Easing II,’”
Compton wrote in the July 16 review of his fund. “Piling record
debt upon record debt to escape a record debt problem fails
simple common sense tests. The eventual solution must be to
shrink the government’s share” of gross domestic product.  
 Bernanke told the U.S. Senate July 21 that central bankers
“remain prepared” to act as needed to aid growth because “the
economic outlook remains unusually uncertain.”  
 While stocks might rally in if the Fed resorts to more
stimulus, any gains will likely be short-lived, Compton said.  
 “Equity indices may enjoy an Indian summer as QEII
temporarily makes all assets look cheap,” he added. “Yet such
policy is doomed as the quantity of money needed to work will
terrify bond markets already suffering oversupply and sovereign
stress.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Xydias  in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        