-- U.S. Stocks, Euro Gain, Treasuries Drop on M&A, Stress Tests
-- Elizabeth Stanton
-- 2010-07-23T20:12:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/stocks-euro-drop-on-concern-over-bank-strength-in-europe-chinese-loans.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks rallied, sending
benchmark indexes to one-month highs, after Genzyme Corp.
received a takeover approach and General Electric Co. boosted
its dividend. The euro appreciated after 84 of 91 European banks
passed stress tests. Treasuries dropped.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  climbed 0.8 percent to
1,102.66 at 4 p.m. in New York, its first gain above 1,100 since
June 22. Genzyme, the  largest maker  of medicines for genetic
diseases, surged 15 percent and GE rose 3.3 percent. The euro
strengthened above $1.29 after dropping 0.8 percent earlier. The
10-year Treasury yield increased five basis points to 2.99
percent. Copper rose for a fifth day, capping its best weekly
gain since February, while oil fell from an 11-week high.  
 The  S&P 500  drifted between gains and losses for most of
the day before early afternoon reports that Sanofi-Aventis SA
made a takeover approach for Genzyme bolstered optimism that a
rebound in mergers and acquisitions is accelerating. GE helped
the Dow Jones Industrial Average briefly erase its 2010 loss
after lifting its payout by 20 percent.  
 “Companies are sitting on records amount of cash which are
they either returning to shareholders or using for
consolidation,” said  Frank Ingarra , a Stamford, Connecticut-
based money manager at Hennessy Advisors Inc., which oversees
about $800 million. “The GE dividend news was positive and
industry consolidation is good for shareholders.”  
 Takeover Growth  
 U.S. companies have been the targets of $397 billion in
announced takeover offers so far this year, 11 percent more than
at the same time last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Drugmakers and medical companies have been the top
acquirers, accounting for $37 billion in deals, the data show.  
 Verizon Communications Inc. jumped 3.8 percent to lead
gains in the Dow after new phones helped the company add
subscribers and top analysts’ earnings estimates. The Dow closed
up 102.32 points, or 1 percent, to 10,424.62, trimming its
decline for the year to less than 0.1 percent. The 30-stock
gauge rallied 3.2 percent this week and the S&P 500 climbed 3.6
percent.  
 The S&P 500 has risen 7.8 percent since July 2 on optimism
that corporate profit reports will signal a stabilizing economy.
Of the 149 companies in the S&P 500 that have reported earnings
since July 12, about 85 percent have beaten forecasts for
earnings per share, according to Bloomberg data. Fewer than 70
percent have topped sales estimates, the data show.  
 Stress Tests  
 The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 0.6 percent before the
stress test results revealed that seven of 91 banks subject to
the evaluations failed with a combined capital shortfall of 3.5
billion euros ($4.5 billion).  
 Hypo Real Estate Holding AG, Agricultural Bank of Greece SA
and five Spanish savings banks have insufficient reserves to
maintain a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6 percent in the
event of a recession and sovereign-debt crisis, lenders and
regulators said today.  
 The euro remained lower immediately after the release of
the results before gaining 0.2 percent to $1.2912 later in the
day.  
 The pound advanced 1.1 percent to $1.5431 as it
strengthened against all 16 major counterparts. U.K. GDP rose
1.1 percent in the three months through June after increasing
0.3 percent in the previous quarter, the Office for National
Statistics said in London today. Economists forecast a 0.6
percent gain, according to the median of 32 predictions in a
Bloomberg News survey.  
 German Confidence  
 Germany’s DAX index increased 0.4 percent after the
nation’s business confidence unexpectedly surged to a three-year
high in July. The  Ifo institute  said its  business climate index ,
based on a survey of 7,000 executives, jumped to 106.2, the
highest since July 2007, from 101.8 in June. Economists had
expected a decline to 101.5, according to the median of 41
forecasts in a Bloomberg News  survey .  
 Hungary’s bonds and currency declined after Moody’s
Investors Service put the nation’s debt rating under review for
possible downgrade following the government’s failure to
persuade the International Monetary Fund and EU that its
deficit-reduction plans are sustainable.  
 The forint weakened for the first time in four days,
falling more than 1.4 percent against the euro. The extra yield
investors demand to own the Hungary’s foreign-currency debt over
U.S. Treasuries rose 8 basis points to 3.52 percentage points,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  
 Emerging Markets  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  gained for a fourth day,
climbing 0.9 percent to the highest closing level since May 4.
Technology companies including Chinese computer maker Lenovo
Group Ltd. and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. led the
advance.  
 Copper rallied as shrinking inventories signaled an
improved outlook for demand. Copper futures for September
delivery gained 2.05 cents, or 0.6 percent, to $3.185 a pound on
the Comex in New York. That leaves the metal up 8.7 percent this
week, the most since the week ended Feb. 19.  
 Crude oil fell from an 11-week high on speculation that
Tropical Storm Bonnie won’t be strong enough to damage
production platforms in the Gulf of Mexico. Crude for September
delivery fell 32 cents, or 0.4 percent, to $78.98 a barrel in
New York.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
 Elizabeth Stanton  in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A trader works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Courtney Donohoe reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     Stocks rose, almost wiping out the Dow Jones Industrial Average’s 2010 loss, after speculation that Genzyme Corp. may be bought spurred optimism that a rebound in acquisitions is accelerating and General Electric Co. boosted its dividend. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Komal Sri-Kumar, chief global strategist at TCW Group Inc., discusses the European Union bank stress test's and the U.S. budget deficit.
     Sri Kumar talks with Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- David Blanchflower, an economics professor at Dartmouth College, talks with Bloomberg's Julie Hyman about the European Union banks' stress test results. (This report is a excerpt of the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Don Hays, founder of Hays Advisory Group, discusses his view of the European bank stress tests, and the prospects of a double-dip recession. 
     Hays speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness.” (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
