-- Stress Tests Show Banks' Strength, Weren't Too Soft, EU Policy Makers Say
-- Simon Kennedy
-- 2010-07-23T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/stress-tests-show-banks-strength-weren-t-too-soft-eu-policy-makers-say.html

          
          
             European policy makers said the
results of bank stress tests highlight the strength of their
financial systems and rejected criticism the probes were too
soft as 92 percent of the lenders passed.  
 “The French banking system once again shows its capacity
to resist crises,” Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer  said
yesterday after the four largest French banks were ruled to have
enough capital to outlast an economic slump and sovereign debt
crisis. In Germany, where  Hypo Real Estate Holding AG  was the
only one of 14 banks to fail the test, the Bundesbank and
financial regulator BaFin said the “banking system has shown
itself to be robust and proved its resilience.”  
 Finance chiefs carried out health checks of 91 banks in a
bid to reassure investors about the state of financial
institutions after the public-debt crisis pummeled the bonds of
Greece, Spain and Portugal. The seven banks said to have
insufficient reserves faced a combined capital shortfall of 3.4
billion euros ($4.4 billion), raising concern the evaluations
weren’t strict enough.  
 The European Central Bank said banks that failed need to
raise fresh capital or resort to government aid. It said the
study “represents an important step forward in supporting the
stability of the EU and euro-area banking sectors” and called
the criteria “substantially adverse in macroeconomic and
financial terms.”  
 The “exercise is an important contribution to bolstering
confidence in the European banking system and strengthening the
resilience and robustness of the global financial system,”
Financial Stability Board Chairman  Mario Draghi  said in a
statement. “The results provide additional clarity and
transparency on the strength of the European banking sector.”  
 Capital Plan  
 In Greece, where the public-debt turmoil started at the end
of last year, Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said
Agricultural Bank of Greece SA, the state-controlled lender that
failed the test, will be required to present a plan to bolster
capital by the end of the year and that the government would
help if investors wouldn’t. The bank said it will proceed with a
share-capital increase.  
 “The results are positive and show that the Greek banking
system can cope even in conditions far worse than the present,”
he said.  
 Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said there is no
“urgency” for the five Spanish lenders that fell short in the
tests to raise new capital. Italy renewed an offer to buy bonds
from lenders that need to raise capital after Monte dei Paschi
di Siena SpA passed a stress test with a capital buffer of less
than 235 million euros.  
 Traded Bonds  
 The evaluations took into account potential losses only on
government bonds the banks trade, rather than those they are
holding to maturity, according to the Committee of European
Banking Supervisors, which coordinated the initiative. That
means the tests ignored the majority of banks’ holdings of
sovereign debt, investors said. They also didn’t allow for a
country defaulting.  
 Bank of Italy Deputy General Director  Anna Maria Tarantola 
said she was confident the results would “put an end to the
rumors and uncertainty that has formed in the market, and create
a climate of confidence.” ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio 
called the tests “severe” and explained they didn’t include a
scenario of a national default because “we don’t believe there
will be a default.”  
 Former Bank of England policy maker  David Blanchflower  said
the criteria suggest a “relatively loose stress test.”  
 “It strikes me that the scenarios being tested aren’t
particularly tough,” Blanchflower said. “What if it’s much
worse than that? There are too many questions and it doesn’t
look that convincing.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        