-- Stress Tests for Banks Assume Loss of 23.1% on Greek Debt, 12.3% on Spain
-- Ben Moshinsky
-- 2010-07-23T15:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/stress-tests-for-banks-assume-loss-of-23-1-on-greek-debt-12-3-on-spain.html

          
          
             The 91 banks undergoing stress tests
were examined on European sovereign debt losses only for the
bonds they trade, rather than those they hold to maturity, which
may make the tests easier to pass.  
 Portfolios of sovereign five-year bonds were tested on
trading books with banks needing to keep a Tier 1 capital ratio
of 6 percent to pass, according to the  Committee of European
Banking Regulators , which is overseeing the exams. The stress
tests assume a loss of 23.1 percent on Greek debt, 12.3 percent
on Spanish bonds, 14 percent on Portuguese bonds and 4.7 percent
on German state debt.  
 “The haircuts are applied to the trading book portfolios
only, as no default assumption was considered,” according to a
confidential European Central Bank document obtained by
Bloomberg News dated July 22 and titled “EU Stress Test
Exercise: Key Messages on Methodological Issues.”  
 European Union regulators are examining the strength of
banks to determine if they can survive potential losses on
sovereign-bond holdings. They are counting on the tests to
reassure investors about the health of financial institutions
from Germany’s WestLB AG and Bayerische Landesbank to Spanish
savings banks as the debt crisis pummels the bonds of Greece,
Spain and Portugal.  
 ‘Lenient Treatment’  
 The “lenient treatment of bank book exposures” is part of
a “sugarcoating” of the stress test results, Sony Kapoor,
managing director of policy group Re-Define Europe, said before
the criteria was released.  
 Banks and regulators will release the results today
starting at 5 p.m. U.K. time. The banks may also publish how
much they will need to raise in capital if their Tier 1 ratio, a
key measure of financial strength, falls below 6 percent.  
 U.K. government bonds will be subject to a 10.2 percent
haircut, and France 5.9 percent according to the ECB document.  
 The tests assume the weighted average yield on euro-area
five-year government bonds will rise to 4.6 percent in 2011 from
2.7 percent at the end of 2009. The tests also include an
increase in the yield on five-year Greek government bonds to as
much as 13.9 percent after “interest rate shocks,” the
document shows.  
 “The haircuts on government debt in the trading book
increase according to the introduction of sovereign risk, which
is modeled as an increase in government bond spreads in line
with market developments since the beginning of May 2010,”
according to the document.  
 ‘Underestimate Exposure’  
 The decision “allows banks to basically underestimate
their exposure to distressed peripheral debt,” Brown Brothers
Harriman, the New York private bank founded almost 200 years
ago, said in a note to clients today. “By leaving out stress
tests on the banking book, then a true picture of bank balance
sheets will clearly not be obtained.”  
 Banks’ stress test scenarios also include securitized debt
products being downgraded four levels by credit ratings
companies, a 20 percent fall in the value of European equities
in both 2010 and 2011 and tests in 50 other macroeconomic
parameters including a fall in European Union gross domestic
product of three percent over two years, CEBS said.  
 European regulators examined the effect on banks’ balance
sheets of an increase in short-term interest rates of 125 basis
points. Banks’ overall liquidity wasn’t tested because it might
clash with studies being carried out by the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision while it decides on the details of new
capital requirement rules.  
 The 54-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and  Financial Services
Index  was little changed at 4:05 p.m. London time. The euro
weakened against the dollar, sliding 0.51 percent to $1.2827.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        