-- Sumitomo, Usiminas May Expand Iron Ore Capacity in Brazil, Furihata Says
-- Ichiro Suzuki
-- 2010-07-23T00:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/sumitomo-usiminas-may-expand-iron-ore-capacity-in-brazil-furihata-says.html

          
          
             Sumitomo Corp. , Japan’s third-
largest trading company, said its venture with Brazil’s Usinas
Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA may expand iron ore production
by two thirds amid rising demand in Asia.  
 The venture with Usiminas may be able to boost estimated
annual iron ore output to 50 million metric tons, Sumitomo’s
Managing Executive Officer  Toru Furihata  said in an interview at
its Tokyo headquarters. That’s an increase on its plan to
produce 30 million tons by 2015 from 7 million ton by expanding
capacity at its mine in the state of Minas Gerais.  
 Sumitomo has agreed to pay $1.93 billion for a 30 percent
stake in a unit of Usiminas, Brazil’s second-largest steel mill,
as rising steel consumption in China and India drives demand and
prices for the ore. The venture could further expand output by
buying or developing mines, or paying royalties to producers
near its project in the Serra Azul region, Furihata said.  
 “We see a huge potential in the region,” Furihata said in
a July 21 interview. “We will consider how to develop there
with Usiminas.”  
 Sumitomo shares, which have declined 5.5 percent this year,
yesterday fell 3.1 percent to 891 yen in Tokyo.  
 Sumitomo will boost its iron ore supplies 10-fold by 2015
to about 10 million tons by taking a stake in the venture with
Belo Horizonte-based Usiminas, the Tokyo-based company said July
1. Sumitomo intends to sell the material to mills in Japan,
China, India, South Korea and Taiwan, Furihata said.  
 Nippon Steel  
 Usiminas is seeking to profit from surging iron ore prices
by selling a stake and spinning off the unit, which the company
said may be worth $6.43 billion. The company is 27.8 percent
owned by a Japanese group led by  Nippon Steel Corp. , the
nation’s largest mill.  
 Sumitomo’s operating profit may increase by between 10
billion yen ($116 million) to 20 billion yen by 2015 because of
the investment, Senior Managing Executive Officer  Kuniharu Nakamura  said July 1.  
 The contract price of iron ore will rise more than 20
percent in the July-September quarter,  Eiji Hayashida , the
president of JFE Holdings Inc.’s steel unit, said June 22. This
would follow a 90 percent gain in the preceding quarter.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Masumi Suga  in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        