-- Superman Hometown Losing to Honeywell in Lockout
-- Leslie Patton
-- 2010-07-23T20:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/superman-hometown-losing-to-honeywell-in-monthlong-uranium-plant-lockout.html

          
          
             What the fictional kryptonite did to
Superman, a real-life element, uranium, is doing to the comic-
book hero’s honorary hometown in southern Illinois.  
 Honeywell International Inc.’s  monthlong lockout of workers
at its uranium-processing plant is draining power from
Metropolis, host of an annual Superman festival.  
 “This whole uranium thing is turning into kind of a big
dose of kryptonite,” said  Jim Hambrick , owner of the Super
Museum, which draws about 200 people a day. “I wish it were one
of those things where Superman could solve the problem.”  
 The lockout has idled about 220 union workers and squeezed
spending at local businesses, from Bill’s BBQ to Charlie’s Party
Hut, as  unemployment  in surrounding Massac County rose to 10.9
percent in June from 8.9 percent in May. It’s also raising
public health questions for the workers and the community.  
 “Local businesses are trying to survive until the economy
recovers,” U.S. Senator  Richard Durbin  of Illinois wrote in a 
July 6 letter  published on his website. “I am also concerned
that the residents of Massac County are being put at risk
because nuclear chemicals are now being handled by workers
unfamiliar with that Honeywell plant.”  
 Durbin, the No. 2 Democrat in the Senate, asked the union
to reach a settlement. Negotiations won’t resume until next week
at the uranium-processing facility, the only one of its kind on
U.S. soil.  
 Insurance Costs  
 Honeywell, based in Morris Township, New Jersey, said it
offered a contract that would increase wages and asked union
members to take on more of their medical insurance costs,
consistent with what non-union employees pay.  
 Employees are concerned about those proposals because of
the nature of their work, said Tim Goines, vice president of
United Steelworkers  local 7669 .  
 “We use a product called  hydrofluoric acid ,” Goines said.
“It automatically goes to your bone, there’s no way to stop
it.”  
 Twice a month, plant workers’ urine is tested for radiation
levels, Goines said. If it’s too high, they have to stay home or
work in a safer part of the plant. Some have had to wait weeks
for their bodies to return to normal, he said.  
 In response to Durbin’s concerns, Honeywell said in a
statement that all temporary replacement workers have been
trained in accordance with the company’s license from the U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission. The company said it has spent
more than $7 million in the past four years on improvements to
support health and safety at the plant.  
 ‘Rare Occasions’  
 Honeywell on “rare occasions” has adjusted work
assignments in response to test results, “but not for extended
periods,”  Peter Dalpe , a Honeywell spokesman, said in a
statement. “This is consistent with practices throughout the
industry.”  
 “We regret that the union is resorting to misleading
claims, media stunts and scare tactics, all of which draw
attention from the economic challenges facing the Metropolis
Works plant,” he said in the statement.  
 The facility processes uranium yellowcake into pure uranium
hexafluoride gas, or UF6. The gas is cooled to a liquid, then
poured into cylinders, where it eventually solidifies. The UF6
is shipped to a handful of fuel processors for further
enrichment.  
 Walking the Line  
 Picketers began walking the line June 28 after talks
stalled, about two weeks after the 32nd annual  Superman
Celebration . The four-day festival drew more than 8,000 visitors
the day that guest celebrities attended, said Karla Ogle, owner
of Creations the Florist and a co-chairman of the event. Laura
Vandervoort and Sam Witwer, stars of “ Smallville ,” a TV show
that has renewed interest in Superman, signed autographs. Some
festival-goers dress as their favorite characters.  
 “It’s almost kind of like Six Flags meets Halloween,”
Ogle said.  
 Metropolis sits at the tip of Illinois on the Ohio River,
about 365 miles from Chicago. The town has about 6,500
residents, Mayor Billy McDaniel said. The biggest employer,
Harrah’s riverboat casino, opened in  1993  and has about 700
workers.  
 The Honeywell plant, which employs about 380, sits a
quarter-mile outside town, said McDaniel, 66, a lifelong
resident. It was opened in the late 1950s.  
 Job Cuts  
 Honeywell trimmed more than 4,400 jobs to adjust for
reduced demand as sales fell 15 percent last year. The company
today said second-quarter net income rose 4 percent, the first
increase in six quarters on demand for turbochargers, gas
detectors and other products.  Shares  have gained 11 percent this
year, topping performance of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,
which dropped 1.1 percent.  
 Since 1972, Metropolis has embraced the “Hometown of
Superman” moniker bestowed by D.C. Comics. Besides its museum,
the town has a weekly newspaper called the “Metropolis
Planet,” and a 15-foot statue of Superman sits in front of the
Massac County courthouse on Superman Square. The plinth is
inscribed: “Truth-Justice-The American Way.”  
 “Being a Superman fan and never being to Metropolis is
like being an Elvis fan and never going to Graceland,” said Lin
Workman, a Memphis tombstone designer who has attended the
festival since 1999. “You gotta go at least once.”  
 Power Loss  
 The Honeywell plant hasn’t been a superpower of
profitability, losing $100 million in the past 10 years, with an
estimated loss of  $20 million  in 2010, said Larry Smith, the
plant manager. He blamed global competition and high costs.  
 The material produced at Metropolis is used only for
commercial nuclear power, Dalpe said in a statement. The company
plans to resume full production in August, using both salaried
and temporary workers until an agreement is reached with the
union, Smith said.  
 The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission had workers there
watching operations for 72 hours after the lockout began and
will return if needed, said  Joey Ledford , an NRC spokesman.  
 The plant is part of Honeywell’s Specialty Materials unit,
which represented about 13 percent of sales in 2009. The lockout
began a week after the collective-bargaining agreement expired,
according to Honeywell’s  website . The plant is being run by
salaried workers and employees contracted from Baton Rouge,
Louisiana-based  Shaw Group Inc.   
 Base pay for union workers at the plant is $60,456,
according to the union’s  website . The average annual total
compensation paid to hourly employees in 2009, including
overtime and benefits, was $103,000, Honeywell said in a
statement. The company is continuing to pay contributions toward
employee medical care and life insurance during the lockout.  
 Uranium Supplies  
 The lockout likely won’t disrupt uranium supplies to
nuclear reactors, as there’s usually enough buildup in the
system, said Suzanne Phelps, senior project manager for fuel
supply for the  Nuclear Energy Institute , a trade association for
the U.S. commercial nuclear industry.  
 The 104 commercial reactors in the U.S. typically refuel
every 18 months, usually in the spring or fall, said  Julian Steyn , president of Energy Resources International, a
Washington-based consultant to electric companies.  
 “There are long lead times in the nuclear fuel cycle,” he
said. “I would estimate that the inventories are well over a
year.”  
 In Metropolis, the lockout is hurting sales at Charlie’s
Party Hut, said Charles Eichorn, 79, who owns the liquor store
and used to work at the plant. He has a letter board out front
that reads: “Honeywell & 7669 Find a Solution. We Don’t Need a
Lockout.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Will Daley  in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net  or:
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Locked out union workers take part in a demonstration against Honeywell International Inc. in Metropolis, Illinois. Photographer: Leslie Patton/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A 15-foot, 4,400-pound statue of Superman stands outside the Metropolis county courthouse on "Superman Square." Photographer: Leslie Patton/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Charlie Eichorn, owner of Charlie's Party Hut, says that sales at his liquor store have been hurt by the month-long Honeywell International lockout. Photographer: Leslie Patton/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     An inflatable rat put up by demonstrators in Metropolis against Shaw Group Inc., which is providing temporary workers during a lockout at Honeywell International Inc.'s uranium processing plant. Photographer: Leslie Patton/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
