-- Swiss Stocks Decline as Syngenta, Roche Fall; ABB Shares Rise in Zurich
-- Adam Ewing
-- 2010-07-23T10:23:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/swiss-stocks-decline-as-syngenta-roche-fall-abb-shares-rise-in-zurich.html

          
          
             Stocks in Switzerland fell as a
slide in  Syngenta AG  and Roche Holding AG offset gains in ABB
Ltd. as investors waited for the results of stress tests of 91
European banks.  
 Syngenta fell 1.9 percent after it was downgraded by
Vontobel Holding AG. Roche and Novartis each fell more than 1
percent. ABB rose 1.4 percent after the stock was upgraded at
Societe Generale SA. Financial shares slipped ahead of a report
that will show which banks need more capital.  
 The benchmark  Swiss Market Index  fell 0.4 percent to
6,168.65 at 12:11 a.m. in Zurich, on course to end the week down
0.3 percent. The SMI has retreated 12 percent from this year’s
high on April 15 amid speculation that Europe’s debt crisis may
derail the economic recovery and concern that Chinese
authorities are cooling their nation’s rate of growth. The
broader  Swiss Performance Index  slipped 0.2 percent today.  
 European banking regulators will publish stress tests from
6 p.m. Brussels time today. The regulators have assessed whether
the banks have enough capital, defined as a Tier 1 ratio of at
least 6 percent, to withstand a recession and a sovereign-debt
crisis, according to a document from the Committee of European
Banking Supervisors. Lenders that fail the tests will have to
raise additional capital.  
 Syngenta Falls  
 Syngenta fell 1.9 percent to 225 francs, extending
yesterday’s 5.3 percent loss after it was downgraded to “hold”
from “buy” at Vontobel.  
 “Pricing is likely to remain in negative territory in the
coming quarters and margins will hence be under pressure,”
 Patrick Rafaisz , an analyst at Vontobel Equity Research, said in
a note to clients today. “The tailwind from lower raw materials
prices is receding at a time when Opex is on the rise. We fail
to identify any short-term triggers.”  
 Roche , the world’s biggest maker of cancer drugs, slipped
1.7 percent to 136.1 francs, erasing its 1 percent gain
yesterday after it reported a 58 percent increase in first-half
net income.  
 Novartis AG , the maker of the Diovan hypertension drug,
dropped 1.1 percent to 51.25 francs, erasing yesterday’s 1.1
percent climb.  
 ABB gained 1.4 percent to 20.77 francs, rising for the
third day. The world’s largest builder of electricity networks
was upgraded to “hold” from “sell” at Societe Generale.  
 UBS AG , the Swiss bank, slumped 0.6 percent to 15.41
francs, its first loss in four days.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        