-- Europe Shows Strength as U.K., German Indicators Top Forecasts
-- Christian Vits
-- 2010-07-23T10:52:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/u-k-expansion-german-confidence-indicate-europe-s-recovery-strengthening.html

          
          
             The British economy grew at the
fastest pace in four years in the second quarter and German
business confidence surged to a three-year high this month,
indicating Europe’s recovery may be stronger than forecast.  
 U.K.  gross domestic product  rose 1.1 percent in the three
months through June, almost twice as fast as the 0.6 percent
gain predicted by economists in a Bloomberg News survey, the
Office for National Statistics said in London today. In Munich,
the Ifo institute said its  business climate index , based on a
poll of 7,000 executives, jumped to 106.2 this month,
confounding expectations of a decline.  
 The reports suggest two of Europe’s largest economies are
being buoyed by slides in the pound and the euro just as
factories step up production to meet global demand. At the same
time, government efforts to cut budget deficits and a weakening
U.S. economy may damp European growth, while publication of bank
stress-test results today could weigh on market sentiment.  
 “Europe is coming in relatively strong, stronger than
expected,” said  Laurent Bilke , an economist at Nomura
International Plc in London. “It’s unlikely we’ll sustain this
level for long.”  
 The euro rose against the dollar, reversing earlier losses,
and the pound also gained. The euro climbed 0.4 percent to
$1.2945 at 10:56 a.m. in London, while sterling climbed 1
percent to $1.5410.  
 Double-Dip Scenario  
 Today’s indicators may help ease concern among investors
that the world economy is veering back into recession.  
 “The latest data are reducing the risk of double-dip
recession,” European Central Bank Executive Board member  Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo  said today in San Sebastian, Spain. “The
first indicators for July, for example, are quite positive.”  
 Economists expected Germany’s Ifo gauge to fall from June’s
101.8. The increase capped a week in which reports showed growth
in Europe’s services and manufacturing industries unexpectedly
accelerated this month and European consumer confidence also
improved.  
 Germany’s  Bayerische Motoren Werke  AG, the world’s largest
luxury carmaker, on July 13 raised its 2010 sales and earnings
forecast. Its rival  Daimler  AG, the second-largest luxury car
manufacturer, increased its full-year forecast last week after
second-quarter profit beat analysts’ estimates.  
 ‘Strong’ Investment  
 “Manufacturing is doing extremely well, economic growth is
strong and sustainable, driven by strong impulses from exports
to emerging markets,” said  Jens Kramer , an economist at NordLB
in Hanover. “Germany is strong in investment goods and
investment cycles are going up.”  
 The Bundesbank forecasts German growth of 1.9 percent
this year and 1.4 percent in 2011. The International Monetary
Fund predicts the British economy will expand 1.2 percent this
year and 2.1 percent next.  
 Rebounds in services, manufacturing and construction
ignited the U.K.’s recovery in the second quarter after the
economy grew 0.3 percent in the first. That pickup may sharpen
the divide among policy makers as the Bank of England considers
whether the economy faces a greater threat from inflation or
needs more stimulus to avert another recession.  
 The nation is enduring the deepest budget squeeze since
World War II while facing a debt crisis in the euro region, its
biggest trading partner. In the U.S., Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said this week that the outlook for growth is
“unusually uncertain.”  
 ‘Encouraging Sign’  
 “It’s a very encouraging sign that the recovery is
establishing itself, strengthening and broadening,” said
 Neville Hill , an economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in London
and a former British Treasury official. “Looking forward, the
issue is not so much what’s happening inside the U.K. but
outside it. This is more than strong enough to withstand the
kind of fiscal tightening we’re going into.”  
 The U.K.’s Office for Budget Responsibility, the
government’s new fiscal monitor, said last week that the
coalition government’s spending cuts have increased the chance
the economy may plunge back into recession.  
 German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  last month unveiled an 81.6
billion-euro ($105.6 billion) program of budget cuts and
revenue-raising measures.  
 European regulators are also testing 91 banks to examine
whether they can withstand a shrinking economy and a drop in
government bond values. Governments are counting on the tests on
firms including Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG to reassure
investors about the strength of the financial system and the
amount of state support lenders may need. The results are due to
be published at 6 p.m. today Frankfurt time.  
 Interest Rates  
 The fiscal and banking strains may leave central bankers
having to maintain record low interest rates.  
 Bank of England officials have become more pessimistic even
with a benchmark rate of 0.5 percent. It is “likely” the
budget measures “pushed down a little on the most likely path
for output,” they said in minutes of the July 8 decision
released yesterday. “Considerable uncertainties remained”
because of the euro-region debt crisis, they said.  
 ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  wrote in today’s
Financial Times that a “credible medium-term fiscal
consolidation strategy” should now be pursued by all
industrialized countries. Doing so would help stabilize and
sustain growth, he said.  
 Elsewhere in Europe, Italy’s Isae Institute reported today
that an index of consumer confidence unexpectedly rose to 105.6
from 104.4. Still, household spending in France fell 1.3 percent
in June from the previous month, conflicting with a forecast for
a gain of 0.3 percent, the Paris-based Statistics Office said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       European regulators are testing 91 banks  
                       
                         
                           Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg 
                         
                         European Central Bank president Jean-Claude Trichet. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     European Central Bank president Jean-Claude Trichet. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Amit Kara, an economist at UBS AG, talks about about the rise in the U.K.'s gross domestic product during the second quarter.
     The U.K. economy grew almost twice as much as economists forecast in the second quarter in the fastest expansion for four years as rebounding services, manufacturing and construction ignited the recovery. Kara speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Germany's Deputy Finance Minister Steffen Kampeter says that his country is committed to supporting troubled banks and that he's "bullish" on the U.S. economy. Bloomberg's Sara Eisen reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
