-- U.K. FSA Can't Offer Comprehensive List of Firms That Pose Systemic Risk
-- Nandini Sukumar
-- 2010-07-23T15:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/u-k-fsa-can-t-offer-comprehensive-list-of-firms-that-pose-systemic-risk.html

          
          
             The Financial Services Authority
said it can’t provide a comprehensive list of “entities” that
pose a risk to disrupting the financial system because each
crisis is different.  
 “Activities that may not be considered a risk to financial
stability during normal market conditions may in fact create
such risks, if the markets they relate to are under stress or
become unusually volatile,” Britain’s financial watchdog wrote
in a 115-page  consultation paper  today.  
 A specific firm or a financial instrument may become
“relevant” to stability depending on the size and liquidity of
the market in which it operates, the interconnectedness between
participants and the amount of business the firm does, the FSA
said in the document. The FSA  previously listed  hedge funds and
some structured investment vehicles among possible risks.  
 The FSA’s comments come as regulators are assessing whether
banks have enough capital, defined as a Tier 1 capital ratio of
at least 6 percent, to withstand a recession and sovereign-debt
crisis. The  Committee of European Banking Supervisors  will
publish the results of its so-called stress tests along with
national regulators starting at 6 p.m. Brussels time today.
Lenders that fail the tests will have to raise more capital.  
 The 54-member  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index  has risen 9.3 percent this month, boosted by optimism that
lenders will pass.  
 To Be Abolished  
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said June 17
that he plans to abolish the FSA and give most of its power to
the Bank of England. The FSA’s enforcement unit, which
prosecutes insider trading and market abuse, will be combined
with the U.K. Serious Fraud Office and the  Office of Fair
Trading  to create an economic-crime agency.  
 The FSA also said today it will stand firm on its short-
selling disclosure requirements.  
 “We will re-cast all the rules requiring those who hold
significant net short positions in U.K. financial sector
companies, and companies engaged in a rights issue, to disclose
those,” the agency said. The holders’ identities should also be
made clear to “the market as a whole,” the FSA said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        