-- U.S. Asks Appeals Court to Reinstate Moratorium on Deep-Water Oil Drilling
-- Laurel Brubaker Calkins
-- 2010-07-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/u-s-asks-appeals-court-to-reinstate-moratorium-on-deep-water-drilling.html

          
          
             U.S. regulators, seeking to overturn
a judge’s ruling throwing out a moratorium on deep-water oil
drilling in the Gulf of Mexico, said opponents of the ban should
be required to file a new lawsuit to pursue their claims.  
 The shorter, less restrictive moratorium was imposed this
month after U.S. District Judge  Martin Feldman  in New Orleans
threw out a six-month ban on oil and gas drilling in waters
deeper than 500 feet. In the lawsuit brought by offshore
services companies, Feldman blocked the government from
enforcing the ban, calling it overly broad and punitive to the
regional economy.  
 The government yesterday asked the U.S. Court of Appeals in
New Orleans to reject Feldman’s June 22 order, arguing that the
risk of a second spill outweighs the economic effects of the
drilling ban. On July 8, a three-judge panel of the same
appellate court refused regulators’ request to put Feldman’s
order on hold while the government appeals.  
 The government’s drilling moratorium “is fully supported
in the record and consistent with Interior’s authority to
suspend lease operations,” the U.S. said yesterday in its
filing. “The district court’s order misperceives the
secretary’s authority, the rationale for the suspensions, and
the relative harms present in the Gulf, and was an abuse of its
discretion.”  
 The appeals court is scheduled to hear oral arguments in
the case on Sept. 1. The U.S., which previously filed motions to
dismiss the lawsuit over the six-month ban, said in yesterday’s
filing that the plaintiffs should be required to file a new
lawsuit if they want to challenge the revised moratorium, which
expires Nov. 30.  
 Deep-Water Moratorium  
 President  Barack Obama  imposed the suspension on deep-water
drilling in May in reaction to the  BP Plc  oil spill, the worst
in U.S. history, caused by the sinking of the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig off the Louisiana coast in April.  
 Government lawyers stressed in hearings and court papers
that the public interest requires improvement in drilling safety
before a resumption of deep-water operations to prevent another
disaster.  
 “Our resources are taxed to the max,” Justice Department
environmental lawyer Michael Gray told the appeals panel on July
8. “It makes perfect sense.”  
 Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc.  and other offshore service
and supply companies on June 7 sued U.S. regulators, including
Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar , seeking to lift the
moratorium.  
 “It’s not over,” Hornbeck General Counsel  Samuel Giberga 
said yesterday in a phone interview. “We believe Judge
Feldman’s original ruling was correct and is still the ruling
that governs this dispute overall, and will be upheld by the
appellate court.”  
 Irreparable Harm  
 The offshore companies, which were joined by Louisiana
Governor  Bobby Jindal , argued the firms and regional economy
would suffer irreparable economic harm from the suspension in
drilling.  
 Government lawyers said in court papers that the ban was
based on findings in an Interior Department safety report made
following the sinking of the Deepwater Horizon, owned by
 Transocean Ltd.   
 Feldman said the six-month ban was too far-reaching a
response to that investigation.  
 “The court is unable to divine or fathom a relationship
between the findings and the immense scope of the moratorium,”
Feldman said in his 22-page decision. “The blanket moratorium,
with no parameters, seems to assume that because one rig failed
and although no one yet fully knows why, all companies and rigs
drilling new wells over 500 feet also universally present an
imminent danger.”  
 The U.S. filed a notice of appeal on June 24 and sought a
delay in enforcement of Feldman’s decision. Two members of the
appellate panel voted July 8 to reject the government’s request
to keep the ban in place during its appeal. The third sided with
Salazar.  
 Lawsuit Irrelevant  
 On July 12, Salazar issued new restrictions on deep-water
oil drilling that may allow new wells if the industry shows it
has raised safety standards. The U.S. that day filed motions in
the appeals court and before Feldman to dismiss the Hornbeck
suit, calling the original claim irrelevant in light of the new
order.  
 Hornbeck and the other offshore companies asked Feldman on
July 20 to reject the government’s request for a dismissal.
Feldman has scheduled arguments on the government’s motion in
the lower-court case for Aug. 11.  
 While pursuing the appeal, the U.S. believes the original
lawsuit should be dismissed, government lawyers said in
yesterday’s filing.  
 ‘Abused’ Discretion  
 “If the preliminary injunction is not moot,” the
appellate panel should rule that Feldman “abused his discretion
by entering a preliminary injunction,” they said.  
 The plaintiffs “have not demonstrated that they will
suffer irreparable harm absent the injunction,” the U.S. said.
“And the public interest in developing the resources of the
outer continental shelf in an orderly and safe manner weighs
against injunctive relief given the serious harm a second spill
would entail.”  
 The case is Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar,
2:10-cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans). The appeal case is 10-30585, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  
          
          


  


        