-- Clinton Signals U.S. Role in China Territorial Disputes After Asean Talks
-- Nicole Gaouette
-- 2010-07-23T11:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/u-s-says-settling-south-china-sea-disputes-leading-diplomatic-priority-.html

          
          
             Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said resolving territorial disputes off China’s southern coast
is “a leading diplomatic priority,” signaling her intention to
intercede in a region claimed in full by the Chinese government.  
 Ending disagreements in the South China Sea “is pivotal to
regional stability” and ensuring “unimpeded commerce,”
Clinton told the 27-member Asean Regional Forum in Hanoi today,
according to a State Department transcript.  
 “If you look at a map of this region, there are many
countries that are increasing their trade, their commercial
maritime traffic,” Clinton told reporters after her meetings,
which included a bilateral discussion with Chinese Foreign
Minister  Yang Jiechi  “There is a concern that we all abide by
the international rules.”  
 The Chinese government considers the entire  South China Sea 
as its own, dismissing rival claims to islands such as the
Spratlys, and is building a blue-water fleet to project power
beyond its own borders. China told  Exxon Mobil Corp.  and  BP Plc 
to halt exploration in offshore areas that Vietnam considers
part of its territory, according to U.S. government agencies.  
 “China’s assertiveness has caused anxieties in the
region,” said  Carlyle A. Thayer , professor of politics at the
Australian Defense Force Academy in Canberra. Countries around
Asia “are quite happy the U.S. is doing the heavy lifting.”  
 In their separate meeting, Yang said China was willing to
discuss all of the issues raised by Clinton, including the South
China Sea, a U.S. administration official traveling with Clinton
said on condition of anonymity. China prefers such issues to be
discussed bilaterally, the official said.  
 ‘Core Interest’ Status  
 Raising the South China Sea to the level of a “core
interest” would put it on the same standing as Taiwan, which
China views as a breakaway province to be reunited by force, if
necessary. China cut military links with the U.S. in January in
protest at arms sales to Taiwan.  
 China has also protested military exercises by the U.S. off
the coast of South Korea that Gates said are aimed at deterring
further acts of aggression by North Korea after the sinking of a
South Korean warship in March.  
 In a show of the U.S.’ strategic commitment to the region,
Clinton and Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , together with
Admiral  Mike Mullen , the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
and other senior defense officials met in Seoul on June 21 on
the 60th anniversary of the outbreak of the Korean War.  
 U.S. Naval Force  
 The 97,000-ton USS George  Washington  and three destroyers
arrived in the country the same day, ahead of military exercises
due next week that will involve F-22 stealth fighter-bombers and
hundreds of other aircraft, ships and thousands of U.S. and
Korean personnel.  
 The U.S. drills mask a hidden aim to “pressurize and
contain other big powers by force of arms in the region,” the
state-run Korea Central News Agency said July 21. North Korea
denies any involvement in the sinking and today accused the U.S.
of “gunboat diplomacy” in sending the George Washington to the
region.  
 “There will be a physical response against the steps
imposed by the United States militarily,” Ri Tong Il, an
official with North Korea’s delegation to the Asean Regional
Forum, told reporters in Hanoi today.  
 China, North Korea’s main ally and source of economic
support, is “firmly opposed” to any threatening foreign
military activities in waters off its shores, the foreign
ministry said in a statement posted on its website. It has so
far refused to join international condemnation of North Korea
for the ship sinking.  
 Claims Disputed  
 Asean Secretary-General  Surin Pitsuwan  said there was
“very, very open, sometimes heated discussion” in the forum on
issues including the Korean peninsula and South China Sea.  
 The Chinese government formally disputed the claims of
Vietnam and Malaysia to part of the South China Sea’s Spratly
Islands when it submitted a  map  to the United Nations last year
asserting ownership over most of the sea. Brunei, the
Philippines and Taiwan also lay claim to all or part of the
island chain, which may contain oil and gas reserves.  
 There is a growing chorus among Southeast Asian countries
to begin a more substantive process for settling disputes, said
the U.S. official.  
 China has beefed up its military over the past decade,
enhancing the capability to deter U.S. ships and enforce
territorial claims off its shores. Last year, Chinese fishing
boats harassed two U.S. naval vessels in the South China Sea,
where American forces have patrolled since World War II.  
 Taiwan, Tibet  
 Chinese officials told U.S. counterparts in March they
consider the sea a “core interest” on par with Taiwan, Tibet
and Xinjiang, Kyodo News reported on July 3, citing unidentified
officials.  
 “The development of China’s national defense capabilities
is not aimed at challenging, threatening or invading any other
country but at, first and foremost, maintaining its own
security,” the PLA’s Ma said in Singapore.  
 Clinton yesterday discussed military cooperation with
Vietnam and  Gates  restored ties with special forces in
Indonesia. The two countries border the South China Sea.  
 “The United States supports a collaborative diplomatic
process by all claimants for resolving the various territorial
disputes without coercion,” Clinton said. “We oppose the use
or threat of force by any claimant.”  
 Asean foreign ministers are negotiating an agreement with
China on a code of conduct in the sea to build on a 2002
accordthat called for disputes to be resolved peacefully.
Ministershope the deal can be concluded by year’s end, Asean’s
Surin said yesterday.  
 Open shipping lanes in the sea are “really the lifeline of
our commerce, of our transport for all of us,” Surin told
reporters in Hanoi. China, Japan and South Korea “recognize
that 85 to 90 percent of their energy source comes either from
or through Southeast Asia,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Hanoi at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. secretary of state Hillary Clinton. Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
