-- U.S. Credit Risk Gauge Declines to Two-Month Low After Stress Test Results
-- Shannon D. Harrington
-- 2010-07-23T22:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/u-s-credit-risk-gauge-declines-to-two-month-low-after-stress-test-results.html

          
          
             A benchmark indicator of corporate
credit risk in the U.S. fell to the lowest level in more than
two months as 84 of 91 European Union banks passed stress tests.  
 Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which decline as investor confidence
improves, dropped 1.9 basis point to a mid-price of 106.5 basis
points, the lowest level since May 13, as of 6:03 p.m. in New
York, according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd. Swaps
on Ford Motor Co. and Verizon Communications fell after they
reported better-than-expected quarterly profits.  
 EU regulators scrutinized the bloc’s banks as the region’s
governments seek to reassure investors about the health of
financial institutions after a debt crisis pummeled the bonds of
Greece, Spain and Portugal. Releasing details on the stress
tests had little effect on credit swaps because the results were
so broad, said  Brian Yelvington , head of fixed-income strategy
at broker-dealer Knight Libertas LLC in Greenwich, Connecticut.  
 “It’s a huge non-event, it’s like the Y2K of banking,”
Yelvington said. “The broad expectation was it wouldn’t be
transparent and it wouldn’t be stringent and that’s exactly what
we had delivered.”  
 The seven banks that failed the tests had a combined
capital shortfall of 3.5 billion euros ($4.5 billion), according
to the Committee of European Banking Supervisors, which
coordinated the initiative.  
 “National authorities are in close contact with these
banks to assess the results of the test and their implications,
in particular in terms of need for recapitalization,” the
committee said today in a statement on its website.  
 Not ‘Granular Enough’  
 The evaluations took into account potential losses only on
government bonds the banks trade, rather than those they are
holding to maturity, according to CEBS. That means the tests are
set to ignore the majority of banks’ holdings of sovereign debt,
investors said.  
 The results weren’t “granular enough for people to use
their own assumptions,” Yelvington said. “There may be a point
now where the market presses for that additional release of
detail.”  
 The cost of insuring against losses on European financial
company bonds pared a decline after a report showed the U.K.
economy in the second quarter grew almost twice as much as
economists forecast. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to
25 banks and insurers fell 2.5 basis points to 130.5, after
earlier dropping to 127.5, according to CMA.  
 The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings decreased 2.4 basis points to 111.8,
Markit prices show.  
 Ford, Verizon Fall  
 Swaps on  Ford  declined 23.5 basis points to 582.3 and those
on Verizon dropped 2 basis points to 87.6, CMA data show. Ford
said it had its most profitable first half in more than a decade
as buyers pay more for its new models, while Verizon’s new
phones spurred subscriber growth.  
 “This week has been slightly better in terms of news,”
said  Nick Burns , a credit strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in
London. “Earnings have been fairly decent.”  
 Credit swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying security if a borrower fails to meet its debt
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis
point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net 
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        