-- U.S. Stocks Advance as Genzyme Rallies on Takeover Speculation
-- Nikolaj Gammeltoft
-- 2010-07-23T20:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/u-s-stock-index-futures-rise-in-sign-s-p-500-index-may-extend-weekly-gain.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks rose, almost wiping out
the Dow Jones Industrial Average’s 2010 loss, after speculation
that  Genzyme Corp.  may be bought spurred optimism that a rebound
in acquisitions is accelerating and General Electric Co. boosted
its dividend.  
 Genzyme jumped 15 percent, the most since 2000, as two
people with knowledge of the matter said Sanofi-Aventis SA
approached the drugmaker about taking it over. GE advanced 3.3
percent. Ford Motor Co. rose 5.2 percent after reporting its
most profitable first half in more than a decade as buyers pay
more for new models. Verizon Communications Inc. rallied 3.8
percent after new phones spurred growth in subscribers.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 0.8 percent to
1,102.66 at 4 p.m. New York time, closing above 1,100 for the
first time in a month. The Dow climbed 102.32 points, or 1
percent, to 10,424.62, cutting its loss since Dec. 31 to less
than 0.1 percent.  
 “The market is reacting to an M&A rumor in the health-care
sector and people who are light in equities start getting
uncomfortable,” said  Tom Mangan , who helps manage $2 billion as
a money manager at James Investment Research Inc. in Xenia,
Ohio. “It’s an environment where investors get scared to death
if they’re light on equities at the top and it makes you wish
you owned nothing when we’re at the bottom.”  
 Indexes Fluctuate  
 Stocks fluctuated for most of the day before the Wall
Street Journal reported Sanofi-Aventis “made an informal
acquisition approach” to Genzyme. U.S. companies have been the
targets of $397 billion in announced takeover offers so far this
year, 11 percent more than at the same time last year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Drugmakers and medical companies
have been the top acquirers, accounting for $37 billion in
deals, the data show.  Genzyme  soared 17 percent to $63.39.  
 GE  raised its quarterly dividend by 20 percent to 12 cents
a share and will resume stock buybacks sooner than it had
predicted. The company extended stock repurchases through 2013
from the end of this year, and plans to begin buying shares this
quarter. The shares gained 3.3 percent to $15.71.  
 Benchmark indexes fluctuated earlier in the day as
investors scrutinized the results of European bank stress tests.  
 The seven banks that failed the region’s stress tests had a
total capital shortfall of 3.5 billion euros ($4.5 billion), the
Committee of European Banking Supervisors said today. Hypo Real
Estate Holding AG, the commercial-property lender rescued by the
German government, was the nation’s only bank to fail. A merger
led by Caixa Catalunya failed, according to information
published by the Spanish savings bank association.  
 Beating Estimates  
 The S&P 500 has risen 7.8 percent since July 2 on optimism
about corporate profits. Of the 149  S&P 500 companies  that have
reported earnings since July 12, 85 percent have beaten the
average analyst earnings forecast, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Ford  gained 5.2 percent to $12.72 as the carmaker earned
$4.7 billion in the year’s first six months, its largest first-
half profit since 1998 and the fifth consecutive profitable
quarter. Excluding some items, the second-quarter profit was 68
cents a share, topping the 41-cent average estimate of 12
analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Verizon  rose 3.8 percent to $28.02. The largest U.S.
wireless carrier’s second-quarter earnings beat analysts’
estimates after winning customers with Android smartphones that
browse the Web and capture video. Profit, excluding costs to cut
jobs, fell to 58 cents a share from 63 cents a year earlier.
Analysts on average forecast 56 cents in profit, a Bloomberg
survey showed.  
 Unexpected Profit  
 E*Trade Financial Corp.  jumped 7.6 percent to $14.36 after
the online brokerage unexpectedly reported its first quarterly
profit in almost three years.  
 Amazon.com Inc.  slumped 1 percent to $118.87, paring a loss
of as much as 12 percent. The company posted second-quarter
profit that missed analysts’ estimates as some consumers curbed
online spending and falling European currencies may have eroded
overseas sales.  
 SanDisk Corp.  fell 3.9 percent to $41.43. The biggest maker
of flash-memory cards reported second-quarter profit excluding
some items that topped the average analyst estimate by 20
percent, the smallest beat since the first quarter of 2009.
 Daniel Berenbaum , an analyst at Auriga Securities in New York,
said investors were looking for more upside.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange in New York. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Courtney Donohoe reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     Stocks rose, almost wiping out the Dow Jones Industrial Average’s 2010 loss, after speculation that Genzyme Corp. may be bought spurred optimism that a rebound in acquisitions is accelerating and General Electric Co. boosted its dividend. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Komal Sri-Kumar, chief global strategist at TCW Group Inc., discusses the European Union bank stress test's and the U.S. budget deficit.
     Sri Kumar talks with Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- David Blanchflower, an economics professor at Dartmouth College, talks with Bloomberg's Julie Hyman about the European Union banks' stress test results. (This report is a excerpt of the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Don Hays, founder of Hays Advisory Group, discusses his view of the European bank stress tests, and the prospects of a double-dip recession. 
     Hays speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness.” (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
