-- U.S. Natural-Gas Futures in Backwardation For a Week Amid Storm Threat
-- Raj Rajendran
-- 2010-07-23T09:50:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/u-s-natural-gas-futures-in-backwardation-for-a-week-amid-storm-threat.html

          
          
             U.S. natural gas futures for prompt
delivery are poised to complete a whole week at a premium to the
second-month for the first time since February as Tropical Storm
Bonnie heads for the Gulf and summer demand rises.  
 The price pattern known as backwardation, last seen during
the first two months of 2010 and similar periods in 2009, is
often viewed as a sign of strong demand for immediate delivery.
The  National Hurricane Center  said Bonnie was on a path that
threatens gas and oil production in the Gulf of Mexico. A
tropical storm watch was posted for the coastline from Destin,
Florida, to Morgan City, Louisiana.  
 Natural gas for August delivery climbed 2.9 percent to
$4.643 a million British thermal units yesterday on the New York
Mercantile Exchange, the highest settlement since July 6. The
contract was little changed at 10:48 a.m. London time at $4.625
while the September contract was 0.7 cent cheaper at $4.618.  
 Cooling requirements in the U.S. will be 24 percent higher
than normal from tomorrow through July 29, according to Weather
Derivatives of Belton, Missouri. The Gulf accounts for about 31
percent of U.S. oil output and 10 percent of its natural-gas
production, according to the Energy Department.  
 Some rigs and platforms are already being evacuated, though
the storm will likely weaken before reaching land,  Scott Speaker , JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s natural-gas strategist in New
York, said in a note to clients yesterday. “Any production
impact will be extremely brief, and infrastructure damage
unlikely,” the note said.  
 The U.K. gas futures market, on London’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange, has been in backwardation since the beginning of July.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Farey  in London at 
 bfarey@bloomberg.net 
 Raj Rajendran  in London at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        