-- UBS Hires Back Mason, Who Predicted Stock Crash, as Derivatives Strategist
-- Nikolaj Gammeltoft
-- 2010-07-23T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/ubs-hires-back-mason-who-predicted-stock-crash-as-derivatives-strategist.html

          
          
             UBS AG  named  Carl Mason  of BNP
Paribas an executive director and equity derivatives
strategist, rehiring the analyst who said options showed
investors were bracing for a stock-market crash a month before 
shares peaked in October 2007.  
 Mason, 40, will be based in Stamford, Connecticut, and
report to Javed Ashraf, a senior quantitative analyst at the
Zurich-based bank, according to  Kelly Smith , a spokeswoman for
UBS in New York. Mason is rejoining UBS, where he worked in
derivatives from 1995 to 2002, according to his profile on
LinkedIn Corp.’s website. Before BNP, he was head of U.S.
equity-derivatives strategy at Morgan Stanley from 2006 to 2008,
and was at Deutsche Bank AG starting in 2003.  
 Wall Street firms are adding jobs for the first time in two
years as they rebuild businesses cut during the financial crisis
and offer guaranteed payouts to lure top bankers. In New York,
6,800 financial-industry positions were added from the end of
February through May, the largest three-month increase since
2008, according to the New York State Department of Labor.  
 “Hiring in the banking sector has picked up dramatically
both on the cash side and on the derivatives side,” said
 Gustavo Dolfino , senior managing director at Accretive Solutions
Inc., a Melville, New York-based executive recruitment firm.
“The market has changed and people are getting jobs in the U.S.
where they had to go to Singapore or Hong Kong before.”  
 Mason, who has a doctorate degree in physics from the
University of Bristol, declined to comment. He said in a
September 2007 Bloomberg Television interview that U.S. options
were pricing in the highest risk of a stock-market drop since
the technology-stock bubble burst at the start of the decade.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index began a 57 percent plunge in
October 2007.  
 UBS recently hired  Mitchell Revsine , an options strategist
from Citigroup Inc., as the U.S. derivatives strategist in New
York.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        