-- Hungary's Credit Rating May Be Lowered by Moody's After IMF-EU Talks Fail
-- Edith Balazs
-- 2010-07-23T10:53:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/hungary-s-credit-rating-may-be-lowered-by-moody-s-after-imf-eu-talks-fail.html

          
          
             Moody’s Investors Service said it
will review Hungary’s credit rating for possible downgrade, the
first rating company to react to the collapse of negotiations
with the International Monetary Fund and European Union.  
 The IMF and EU on July 17 suspended talks with the
government without endorsing Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s plans
to control the  budget deficit . The creditors provided Hungary
with a 20 billion-euro ($25.9 billion) rescue package in 2008,
which has served to reassure investors.  
 “The focus of our review is to assess the ability and
willingness of the Hungarian government to formulate a credible
reform agenda,”  Dietmar Hornung , a vice president at Moody’s,
said in an interview. “A continued program with the IMF and the
EU would represent a substantial policy anchor and give
reassurance to the fiscal path.”  
 A rating downgrade would raise the cost of borrowing for
Hungary at a time when the country is struggling to repair
investor confidence after ruling party officials in June
compared the country’s economy to Greece. Moody’s rates
Hungary’s debt Baa1, its third-lowest investment grade. That’s
higher than Fitch Ratings, which gives Hungary its second-lowest
investment grade, and Standard & Poor’s at the lowest.  
 The forint fell 0.8 percent to 285.77 as of 12:20 p.m. in
Budapest. The forint has dropped 7.8 percent in the past three
months, making it the worst performer among more than 170
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Credit default swaps on
Hungary’s five-year debt widened by 7.6 basis points to 336
after the Moody’s statement, according to data provider CMA.  
 Deficit Target  
 The government has said it is committed to meeting an IMF-
approved budget deficit target of 3.8 percent of gross domestic
product for this year.  
 Hungary will discuss efforts to cut next year’s deficit
with the EU and not the IMF, Orban said July 21 in Berlin,
suggesting the Cabinet may step back from earlier promises to
seek a “precautionary” loan from the Washington-based lender
in 2011. The current IMF program ends in October.  
 Hungary must “restore its economic self rule” and focus
on growth, Orban said yesterday in Parliament.  
 Moody’s said the loan program backed by the IMF and EU is a
“crucial policy anchor” for Hungary.  
 “The progress of negotiations with the IMF is a key
consideration,” Hornung said.  
 ‘Cannot Ignore’  
 The collapse of Hungary’s talks with international lenders
prompted Societe Generale SA to turn “short-term bearish” on
the forint,  Benoit Anne , the bank’s head of global emerging
markets, said in a note today.  
 “The government simply cannot ignore the need for proper
discussions with the IMF team on a revised fiscal program,”
Anne said. A forint rate of around 284 per euro is “expensive
relative to the mounting fundamental risks.”  
 The government and central bank had gross foreign-currency
debt of 37.4 billion euros ($48.1 billion) as of March 31,
according to data from the central bank. Debt swelled to 78.3
percent of Hungary’s  gross domestic product  last year, compared
with a European Union average of 73.6 percent, the European
Commission said on May 5.  
 Hungary’s budget defict was 4 percent of GDP last year,
above the EU limit of 3 percent.  
 ‘Issues Remain Open’  
 The IMF suspended its review of Hungary’s emergency bailout
because “a range of issues remain open,” the Washington-based
lender said in a July 17 statement. The government must make
“tough decisions, notably on spending,” to comply with deficit
requirements, the EU said.  
 The IMF delegation is expected to return to Budapest in
September, and Hungary will eventually reach an agreement with
its lenders, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said July 19 at a
news conference in Vienna.  
 The government refused to implement further austerity
measures and pushed creditors to widen next year’s deficit
target of 2.8 percent of GDP, Matolcsy said.  
 The country turned to international lenders in 2008 to
avert a default after demand for its debt dried up. At the time,
the government suspended bond auctions, relying solely on its
IMF credit line to repay debt and finance the budget.  
 Regular debt sales resumed in April 2009, and Hungary has
tapped international bond markets twice since. The debt
management agency has missed its sales target at four forint-
denominated auctions since June 3, when an official of the
ruling Fidesz party said Hungary had a “slim chance to avoid a
Greek situation.”  
 Moody’s “believes that the country’s economy remains
vulnerable because of the high foreign-currency indebtedness of
both its private and public sector,” the rating company said.
“Consequently, market confidence in both the government’s
fiscal consolidation program and the value of its currency are
considered very important.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Balazs Penz  in Budapest at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The forint fell 0.7 percent  
                       
                         
                           Balint Porneczi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Hungary'S prime minister Viktor Orban. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Hungary'S prime minister Viktor Orban. Photographer: Balint Porneczi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
