-- Hungary Credit Rating May Be Cut to Junk After IMF Talks Fail
-- Edith Balazs
-- 2010-07-23T14:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/hungary-s-credit-rating-may-be-downgraded-by-moody-s-after-imf-talks-fail.html

          
          
             Standard & Poor’s said it may cut
Hungary’s credit rating to junk after the collapse of talks with
the International Monetary Fund and European Union. Moody’s
Investors Service said it may also lower the country’s grade.  
 The IMF and EU on July 17 suspended talks with the
government without endorsing Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s plans
to control the  budget deficit . The creditors provided Hungary
with a 20 billion-euro ($25.9 billion) rescue package in 2008,
which had served to reassure investors.  
 “We believe that without an EU/IMF program to anchor
policy, Hungary is likely to face higher and more volatile
funding costs, which in our view could weigh on financial sector
balance sheets, the public finances, and economic growth,” S&P
said today in a statement.  
 A rating downgrade would raise the cost of borrowing for
Hungary at a time when the country is struggling to repair
investor confidence after ruling party officials in June
compared the country’s economy with Greece. S&P rates Hungary
BBB-, its lowest investment grade. The Moody’s rating is two
steps higher at Baa1.  
 S&P will lower Hungary’s rating if in the coming year it
concludes “government policies are unlikely to result in a
meaningful decline in public debt,” it said in the statement. A
downgrade would reduce Hungary’s rating to junk at S&P for the
first time since 1992, putting the country on par with
Azerbaijan and Romania.  
 Forint Falls  
 Hungary’s currency fell 1.1 percent to 287.66 per euro as
of 4:15 p.m. in Budapest. The forint has dropped 8.4 percent in
the past three months, making it the worst performer among more
than 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The cost of insuring
Hungary’s government debt against default rose 14.5 basis points
to 343, according to data provider CMA.  
 “Running a higher budget deficit while losing your biggest
potential supplier of capital isn’t a good mix,” said  Kieran Curtis , who manages $2 billion in emerging market debt at Aviva
Investors in London. “The market isn’t going to finance a
higher budget deficit without an IMF agreement.”  
 Hungary’s government said credit rating companies “don’t
understand” that fiscal responsibility needn’t come at the
expense of independent economic policy.  
 “We’re going to continue a disciplined fiscal policy,
which doesn’t equal the usual austerity policy that affects
families and businesses,” the Economy Ministry said in an e-
mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News.  
 Bank Tax  
 An agreement with Hungary’s creditors may hinge on changing
a special tax on the financial industry approved by parliament
yesterday, S&P said.  
 The levy may “impede the functioning of the financial
system” by impairing banks’ ability to raise capital and make
loans, the rating company said. The tax and some of the
government’s other fiscal plans will be detrimental to growth,
according to S&P.  
 The government this week reiterated its commitment to
meeting the IMF-approved budget deficit goal for this year of
3.8 percent of gross domestic product, while saying it won’t
impose new austerity measures. Hungary’s deficit will be close
to that target, S&P said.  
 Hungary will discuss efforts to cut next year’s deficit
with the EU and not the IMF, Orban said July 21 in Berlin,
suggesting the Cabinet may step back from earlier plans to seek
a “precautionary” loan from the Washington-based lender in
2011. The current IMF program ends in October.  
 Hungary must “restore its economic self rule” and focus
on growth, Orban said yesterday in Parliament.  
 Moody’s Review  
 Moody’s also put Hungary on review for possible downgrade.
The IMF and EU-backed loan program is a “crucial policy
anchor” for Hungary, Moody’s said.  
 “The focus of our review is to assess the ability and
willingness of the Hungarian government to formulate a credible
reform agenda,” Moody’s Vice President  Dietmar Hornung  said in
an interview. “The progress of negotiations with the IMF is a
key consideration.”  
 The collapse of Hungary’s talks with international lenders
prompted Societe Generale SA to turn “short-term bearish” on
the forint,  Benoit Anne , the bank’s head of global emerging
markets, said in a note today.  
 ‘Cannot Ignore’  
 “The government simply cannot ignore the need for proper
discussions with the IMF team on a revised fiscal program,”
Anne said. A forint rate of around 284 per euro is “expensive
relative to the mounting fundamental risks.”  
 The government and central bank had gross foreign-currency
debt of 37.4 billion euros ($48.1 billion) as of March 31,
according to data from the central bank. Debt swelled to 78.3
percent of Hungary’s  gross domestic product  last year, compared
with a European Union average of 73.6 percent, the European
Commission said on May 5.  
 Hungary’s budget deficit was 4 percent of GDP last year,
above the EU limit of 3 percent.  
 The IMF suspended its review of Hungary’s emergency bailout
because “a range of issues remain open,” the Washington-based
lender said July 17. The government must make “tough decisions,
notably on spending,” to meet deficit requirements, the EU said.  
 The government refused to implement further austerity
measures and pushed creditors to widen next year’s deficit
target of 2.8 percent of GDP, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy 
said at the time.  
 The country turned to international lenders in 2008 to
avert a default after demand for its debt dried up amid the
global financial crisis. At the time, the government suspended
bond auctions, relying solely on its IMF credit line to repay
debt and finance the budget.  
 External Debt  
 Regular debt sales resumed in April 2009, and Hungary has
tapped international bond markets twice since. The debt
management agency has missed its sales target at four forint-
denominated auctions since June 3, when an official of the
ruling Fidesz party said Hungary had a “slim chance to avoid a
Greek situation.”  
 Hungary’s external debt rose to 125 percent of GDP at the
end of last year from 105 percent two years earlier, according
to Deutsche Bank AG.  
 Moody’s “believes that the country’s economy remains
vulnerable because of the high foreign-currency indebtedness of
both its private and public sector,” the rating company said.
“Consequently, market confidence in both the government’s
fiscal consolidation program and the value of its currency are
considered very important.”  
 Debt and deposit ratings may also be downgraded for the
local units of Erste Group Bank AG and KBC Groep NV as well as
OTP Bank Nyrt., Foldhitel es Jelzalogbank Nyrt. and state-owned
development bank Magyar Fejlesztesi Bank Nyrt., Moody’s said in
a separate statement.  
 General Electric Co.’s Budapest Bank Zrt. Budapest Bank
isn’t affected, Moody’s said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Balazs Penz  in Budapest at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The forint fell 0.7 percent  
                       
                         
                           Balint Porneczi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Hungary'S prime minister Viktor Orban. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Hungary'S prime minister Viktor Orban. Photographer: Balint Porneczi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
