-- Muni `Race to Bottom' May Cost $1 Trillion, Former Los Angeles Mayor Says
-- Christopher Palmeri
-- 2010-07-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/muni-race-to-bottom-may-cost-1-trillion-former-los-angeles-mayor-says.html

          
          
             U.S. cities and states may need more
than $1 trillion of federal assistance in the next three years
to stave off financial failure, former Los Angeles Mayor  Richard Riordan  said.  
 Local governments are in a “race to the bottom” and U.S.
taxpayers will inevitably be called on to bail them out, Riordan
said in an interview at Bloomberg News’s Los Angeles office. The
federal government should make pension, health-care and school
reform a condition of receiving the aid, he said yesterday.  
 “It’s not just L.A., it’s not just California, it’s all
over the country, you’re going to see all these entities become
totally insolvent,” Riordan said. “I think the federal
government has to come in and have a list of what the states
have to do to be saved.”  
 Riordan envisions incentives modeled on President  Barack Obama ’s “Race to the Top” aid to school districts. To receive
funds, state and city officials should be prodded to cut public-
employee pension benefits, renegotiate union work rules and add
charter schools to improve student performance and save on
costs, he said.  
 Riordan said the need for federal help will be unavoidable
and when it comes Obama will have to demand concessions from
unions.  
 “I think he would have zero chance of getting reelected if
he didn’t,” Riordan said.  
 States, recovering from the longest recession since the
Great Depression, have projected budget deficits of $116 billion
for fiscal 2011 and 2012, according to a report last month by
the National Governors Association and the National Association
of State Budget Officers.  
 Pension Funds  
 State public-employee pensions are underfunded by $438
billion and estimates using different accounting methods suggest
a number as large as $3 trillion, according to an April report
from the  American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy
Research .  
 States can’t count on the federal government for more aid,
 Erskine Bowles , co-chairman of the National Commission on Fiscal
Responsibility and Reform, said at the governors association
meeting in Boston this month.  
 Investors won’t keep buying municipal debt to help cash-
strapped cities and states finance operations, Riordan said.  
 The 80-year-old Republican, who predicted insolvency for
Los Angeles by 2014 in a Wall Street Journal commentary in May,
said the city will have to declare bankruptcy to reduce its
pension and health-care obligations to public employees.
Politicians understand they won’t succeed in raising taxes to
dig out of deficits, Riordan said.  
 “If a government can’t sell bonds, they might as well
close the door,” Riordan said. “If you can’t do that, you’re
out of cash, you’re out of business.”  
 Borrowing Costs  
 Los Angeles paid a higher yield on $1.16 billion in short-
term notes issued three weeks ago than it did on similar debt a
year earlier, Riordan said. The notes were sold at yields of
0.55 percent to 0.85 percent, and underwriter J.P. Morgan
Securities bought $252 million of the securities after buyers
balked, City Administrator  Miguel Santana  said in a July 2  memo .  
 California may experience similar difficulty in coming
months when it seeks to borrow, Riordan said. He said he
supports Republican  Meg Whitman  for governor in November over
Democrat  Edmund G. “Jerry” Brown .  
 Riordan served as the mayor of Los Angeles from 1993 to
2001. Prior to entering public service, he started a law firm,
Riordan & McKinzie, which was acquired by Los Angeles-based
 Bingham McCutchen  in 2003, and private-equity company Riordan,
Lewis & Haden, in 1982.  
 ‘No Out-Sized Risk’  
 Los Angeles faced a financial crisis in April after the
Department of Water & Power withheld a payment to the city and
Controller  Wendy Greuel  said the nation’s second-largest
metropolis by population would run out of cash in a month. Mayor
 Antonio Villaraigosa , a Democrat, has said Los Angeles will not
declare bankruptcy as long as he is mayor.  
 Some investors and analysts say odds of a wave of municipal
defaults is low.  
 “Even in a Draconian scenario such as the Great
Depression, we believe that there is no out-sized risk in the
municipal bond market,”  Bijan Moazami , an insurance analyst
with FBR Capital, said in a July 20 research note.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christopher Palmeri  in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Richard Riordan, former mayor of Los Angeles, speaks during an interview in Los Angeles on July 22, 2010. Photographer: Jonathan Alcorn/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Richard Riordan, former mayor of Los Angeles, speaks during an interview in Los Angeles on July 22, 2010. Photographer: Jonathan Alcorn/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
