-- Vantage Punished By Investors With $960 Million Bond at 13 Percent Yield
-- Tim Catts
-- 2010-07-23T16:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/vantage-punished-by-investors-with-960-million-bond-at-13-percent-yield.html

          
          
             Vantage Drilling Co. , the offshore
oil driller seeking $960 million of bonds, may be forced to pay
a 13 percent yield as investors punish some energy companies in
the wake of BP Plc’s oil-rig explosion.  
 Jefferies Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG are managing the
notes sale, graded B3 by Moody’s Investors Service, said a
person familiar with the offering. The debt may pay 448 basis
points, or 4.48 percentage points, more than the average yields
for securities of that grade, according to a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index.  
 Even as energy company debt outpaces corporate bond returns
this month, it’s still trailing the broader market index since
the oil-rig explosion in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20.
That’s casting a “general cloud” over offshore drillers, said
 Martin Fridson , global credit strategist at BNP Paribas Asset
Management in New York.  
 “Based on the ratings you would think a company like this
could probably get a deal done in the high 9s to low 10s,” said
 Sabur Moini , who manages $1.7 billion of high-yield debt at
Payden & Rygel in Los Angeles. “It’s healthy in that not
everything is getting done and tougher deals are having to pay
up.”  
 Vantage Chief Executive Officer  Paul Bragg  didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment.  Tom Tarrant , spokesman
for New York-based Jefferies, declined to comment. Deutsche Bank
AG spokesman  Scott Helfman , also in New York, didn’t immediately
return a call.  
 Offshore Drillers  
 Energy company debt has gained 2.17 percent this month,
outpacing returns for the broader corporate bond market of 1.5
percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. The
sector’s bonds have returned 2.51 percent since April 20,
compared with 2.91 percent for the broader corporate bond
market.  
 Vantage may sell the senior secured debt for as low as 96
cents on the dollar as soon as July 26, said the person.  
 “Because of that general cloud over the offshore drillers,
even though it’s mitigated by the fact they’re not in the Gulf,
I think that’s going to be a concern,” said Fridson.  
 Proceeds from the transaction will help pay for the
purchase of 55 percent of Mandarin Drilling Corp. that Vantage
doesn’t already own, for completion of an ultra-deepwater
drilling ship and for debt refinancing, the company said July
19.  
 High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
and lower than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Katie Evans  in New York at 
 kevans28@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        