-- Verizon Beats Estimates on Demand for Droid Phones
-- Amy Thomson
-- 2010-07-23T20:11:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/verizon-earnings-beat-estimates-on-demand-for-smartphones-running-android.html

          
          
             Verizon Communications Inc. , the
largest U.S. wireless carrier, rose the most in a year in New
York trading after reporting earnings that beat analysts’
estimates and forecasting rising profit for the second half.  
 Second-quarter profit, excluding costs to cut jobs, fell to
58 cents a share from 63 cents a year earlier, the New York-
based company said in a statement today.  Analysts  had forecast a
56-cent profit, according to a Bloomberg survey.  
 Verizon introduced several phones running on Google Inc.’s
Android software, including Droids from Motorola Inc. and HTC
Corp., to compete against AT&T Inc.’s iPhone. The new devices
helped Verizon add 665,000 contract  customers  -- beating AT&T’s
gains -- and the mobile business relieved some of the costs from
job cuts in the company’s home-phone unit.  
 “They’re doing far better than AT&T both from a margin
standpoint and a net-add standpoint,” said  Christopher King , an
analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore, who advises
investors  to buy  the shares and doesn’t own any. “While there’s
no question that Verizon would like to have the iPhone all else
being equal -- it’s still the premier handset out there -- it’s
not a necessity for them.”  
 Verizon rose $1.02, or 3.8 percent, to $28.02 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite  trading , the biggest gain
since July 2009. The stock has lost 9.5 percent this year.  
 Android vs. IPhone  
 Profit, excluding the results from properties sold this
year, will rise 5 percent to 10 percent in the second half,
Chief Financial Officer  John Killian  said on a conference call.  
 That would equate to earnings of as high as $1.11. Analysts
in a Bloomberg survey had forecast $1.08. Smartphone users and
the data plans they buy to access the Internet and download
programs will help drive revenue, Killian said in an interview.  
 Second-quarter  revenue  fell less than 1 percent to $26.8
billion. The net loss was $198 million, or 7 cents a share,
after a profit of $1.48 billion, or 52 cents, a year ago. The
company had costs of 52 cents a share from job cuts.  
 The wireless unit, which accounted for more than half of
revenue, fended off competition from  AT&T , the exclusive U.S.
carrier for Apple Inc.’s iPhone. The division boosted sales 3.4
percent to $16 billion.  
 Verizon customers hoping to buy the HTC Incredible will
have to wait until next month for the phone to ship, according
to carrier’s  Web site . The Droid X, by Motorola, went on sale
July 14 and sold out of some stores in the first few days.  
 The Android operating system, which is available to any
phone maker, is gaining on the iPhone, according to research
from Gartner Inc. The iPhone operating system’s share of the
global smartphone market grew to 15.4 percent in the first
quarter from 10.5 percent a year ago. Android rose to 9.6
percent from 1.6 percent.  
 Monthly Bills  
 The popularity of smartphones and the data plans that let
users access the Internet and download programs has helped
Verizon increase average monthly bills even as some customers
spend less for voice plans. Average revenue per user grew almost
a percent to $51.56 last quarter. Monthly sales from data plans
increased 19 percent to $17.85 per customer.  
 “They continue to run the most profitable wireless
business, and by a wide margin,” said  Craig Moffett , an analyst
at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York. Growth in mobile
customers’ bills “is the potential driver of future revenue
growth for the company as a whole.”  
 Moffett had forecast 500,000 contract-customer additions
for Verizon. AT&T, based in Dallas, added 496,000 contract
customers last quarter, as it activated 3.2 million iPhones for
new and existing subscribers.  
 Job Cuts  
 Verizon said in January that it planned to cut 13,000  jobs 
in its fixed-line phone business to balance subscriber losses.
The company reduced a similar number of employees in this
business last year.  
 The unit, which includes home-phone, Internet, TV and
business customers, is suffering as newer technologies replace
the traditional telephone and corporations curb spending. The
unit’s sales fell 3.3 percent to $11.1 billion last quarter.  
 The company has invested in more advanced fiber-optic
technology to lure customers with faster Internet and high-
definition television. Verizon added 196,000 FiOS Internet
customers, giving it a base of 3.8 million. The company signed
up 174,000 new TV customers, bringing the total to 3.2 million.  
 The new subscribers helped push wireline bills up 11.4
percent, Verizon said.  
 Verizon  shrunk  its traditional fixed-line holdings further
this year, selling 4.8 million rural phone lines Frontier
Communications Corp. in an $8.6 billion deal.  
 Verizon shareholders received about $5.25 billion in
Frontier stock, the companies said when they announced the deal
on May 13, 2009.  Frontier  will take on about $3.3 billion in
debt and pick up accounts in 14 states including Idaho, Michigan
and Oregon, tripling its phone lines.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Pedestrians pass a Verizon Wireless store in New York. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Christopher Larsen, an analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co., discusses Verizon Communications Inc.'s second-quarter earnings reported today and prospects for the company to carry Apple Inc.'s iPhone 4.
     Larsen talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.” (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
