-- Vodafone Says Service Revenue Rises on IPhone Demand
-- Jonathan Browning
-- 2010-07-23T08:57:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/vodafone-service-revenue-unexpectedly-climbs-as-iphone-fuels-calls-data.html

          
          
             Vodafone Group Plc , the world’s
largest mobile-phone company, unexpectedly returned to service
revenue growth after a year and a half, riding demand for  Apple
Inc. ’s iPhone in the U.K. and other markets.  
 Service revenue excluding currency swings and acquisitions
in the three months ended June 30 rose 1.1 percent to 10.6
billion pounds ($16.2 billion), beating analyst’s estimates for
a 0.4 percent drop. The company also said it will announce a new
strategy in the fall focusing on its mix of assets and data use.  
 “Results are better than expected with the group returning
to organic growth,” said  Mandeep Singh , an analyst at Berenberg
Bank in London. “Data revenue growth has accelerated.”  
 Vodafone, which had forecast a return to organic service
revenue growth this year, started selling the data-hungry iPhone
in the U.K. in January after initially missing out on offering
the device. The Newbury, England-based company also has reduced
expenses to counter declining sales in markets including Italy
and Spain.  
 Vodafone’s shares rose as much as 3.8 pence, or 2.6
percent, to 152.85 pence in London and were up 2.1 percent at
9:19 a.m.  
 “The data bet is the right bet,” Chief Executive Officer
 Vittorio Colao , who took charge two years ago, said today on a
conference call. “Two years down the road it’s about time to
refresh and update” strategy, he said.  
 Strategy Review  
 The review will focus on the company’s data strategy and
range of units. The company this week received a demand from
investor Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan calling for a re-
examination of its acquisition record.  
 OTPP, which owns 0.42 percent in Vodafone has focused on
Vodafone’s “disastrous” mergers and acquisitions after the
company wrote down the value of its Indian acquisition by 2.3
billion pounds in May. The investor has demanded the resignation
of Chairman John Bond and Deputy Chairman  John Buchanan , saying
that board changes are needed for a restructuring. OTPP, which
voted against directors’ pay in 2007, said it won’t vote against
the election of Colao.  
 Colao reiterated in June that he was reviewing the
company’s holdings in French operator SFR and U.S. wireless
operator Verizon Wireless. Vodafone hasn’t received a dividend
from its 45 percent stake in Verizon Wireless since 2005.
 Vivendi SA , which owns 56 percent of SFR, has said it would be
interested in buying Vodafone’s holding in France’s second-
biggest mobile-phone operator.  
 ‘Substantial Discount’  
 OTPP said Vodafone trades at a “substantial, persistent”
discount to its asset value.  Jerry Dellis , an analyst at
Jefferies International said this week the enterprise value of
Vodafone’s holdings may be as much as 129.8 billion pounds ($197
billion) including net debt. The company’s market value today is
79 billion pounds.  
 “We think that we will see a portfolio review and clearer
commitment to change whether in the form of disposals or
structural change,”  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C
Bernstein said today in a note to clients.  
 Colao, a former McKinsey & Co. partner who took over in
July 2008, tweaked his predecessor  Arun Sarin ’s strategy. Under
Sarin, Vodafone entered markets such as India and Turkey to
counter a slowdown in Europe. Colao is pushing managers to eke
out more profit from existing operations.  
 Service sales returned to growth in Germany, the company’s
biggest market, and in the U.K. Sales declined 6.2 percent in
Spain fell 2.5 percent in Italy. Service sales include voice,
data, messaging and broadband. It excludes handsets and
accessories.  
 Sales Growth  
 Total sales increased 4.8 percent to 11.3 billion pounds in
the fiscal first quarter. The company confirmed its full-year
forecast.  
 Separately, the company said today it agreed to settle a
U.K. corporate tax case on taxation on its European units based
outside the U.K. Vodafone will pay tax authorities a total of
1.25 billion pounds.  
 The settlement comprises 800 million pounds in the current
financial year with the balance to be paid in installments over
the following five years.  
 India has so far failed to become the emerging-market
powerhouse the company had hoped for as the growth in the
world’s second-largest wireless market attracted a flurry of
global companies, eroding prices and pushing up license fees.  
 When Vodafone agreed to buy a 67 percent stake in Hutchison
Essar Ltd. for $10.7 billion in 2007, it predicted “major
contributions.” Instead, Vodafone in May booked a charge for
the unit, citing “intense price competition.” Vodafone’s
outlook for India soured a year after its entry, when six new
national licenses were awarded.  
 Essar Agreement  
 In the first quarter, service sales rose 13.7 percent to
954 million pounds in India.  
 Vodafone’s India partner Essar Group has an option to sell
its entire 33 stake in Vodafone Essar to Vodafone for $5
billion. The window to sell the stake opened in May for 12
months.  
 Vodafone said today it agreed to alter payments if Essar
chooses to sell a part of its 33 percent stake at fair market
value. In that case, Vodafone will pay Essar 510 million pounds
to take into account costs for fast-Internet licenses.  
 Essar is considering an initial public offering for a stake
in the companies’ local venture, four people familiar with the
matter said on July 16.  
 Essar has invited banks to advise on options including
selling part of its 33 percent stake in Vodafone Essar Ltd., the
people said, declining to be identified because the discussions
are confidential. A sale of a 10 percent stake may take place
early next year, two of the people said.  
 A public listing of a part of Essar’s stake, “is their
right, and we would support them, this was part of the original
agreement,” Colao said today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A member of staff holds an Apple iphone at a Vodafone store. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
