-- Wal-Mart Apparel Chief Leaves After Retailer Splits Job Duties
-- Matthew Boyle
-- 2010-07-23T20:16:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/wal-mart-apparel-chief-mattison-leaves-after-retailer-splits-job-duties.html

          
          
             Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  apparel chief
 Dottie Mattison  resigned, less than two months after the
retailer decided to split her  responsibilities  with another
executive because of slow growth in clothing sales.  
 The resignation was effective yesterday, said  Greg Rossiter , a Wal-Mart spokesman. Mattison reported to Chief
Merchandising Officer  John Fleming , who is leaving Aug. 1.  
 Lisa Rhodes , who had worked under Mattison, was tapped by
Wal-Mart in June to co-run the apparel business. Both work in
Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart’s New York design office.  
 Rhodes took on more duties after Wal-Mart, the world’s
biggest retailer, posted apparel sales that fell short of
expectations last fiscal quarter. The performance made the
business “a work in progress,” then-U.S. stores chief  Eduardo Castro-Wright  said June 4. Target Corp. benefited from increased
clothing purchases in the same period.  
 Wal-Mart’s U.S. chief operating officer,  Bill Simon , last
month took charge of U.S. stores, the company’s largest unit.
Castro-Wright, who had run that business, was reassigned to
California, where his wife was recovering from surgery.  
 Apparel accounted for 10 percent of the  total sales  at Wal-
Mart’s U.S. stores in the fiscal year that ended Jan. 31, down
from 12 percent two years ago, according to company filings.  
 Skinny Jeans  
 Wal-Mart rose 81 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $51.67 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares have
dropped 3.3 percent this year, compared with a 1.1 percent
decline in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  
 Mattison previously worked at Gap Inc. and replaced  Claire Watts , who resigned three years ago this month after her attempt
to make Wal-Mart’s apparel more upscale failed, according to
 Bill Dreher , an analyst with Deutsche Bank AG in New York.  
 Watts introduced higher-end fashion items including skinny
jeans. Mattison’s apparel strategy included less expensive,
brightly colored merchandise, as well as an exclusive line with
performer Miley Cyrus, which has so far failed to spur sales
growth.  
 “We are going back to basics in terms of the product,”
Castro-Wright said in a June presentation. “We do well when we
sell everyday needs for customers, from socks and underwear to
jeans and t-shirts -- that is where we excel.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        