-- Washington Airport Sells as Transportation Muni Bonds Widen Over Utilities
-- Esme E. Deprez
-- 2010-07-23T04:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/washington-airport-sells-as-transportation-muni-bonds-widen-over-utilities.html

          
          
             Metropolitan Washington Airports
Authority led about $1.5 billion in transportation-bond sales
this week as the risk premium on the municipal securities is at
an 18-month high relative to debt backed by utility payments.  
 Twenty-five-year transportation-revenue debt yielded about
7 basis points more than utility notes for comparably rated
issues,  the biggest difference  since January 2009, according to
Bloomberg Fair Market Value indexes. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point. The group yields about 57 basis points more
than top-rated, tax-exempt muni debt,  the most  in more than nine
years, according to data from Municipal Market Advisors.  
 “Airports are subject to airlines, looked at as more
volatile than say a water-revenue bond,” said  Anthony Greco , a
trader at Boston-based Breckinridge Capital Advisors, which
manages about $12.5 billion in municipal debt.  
 Washington’s $577 million sale for Dulles and Reagan
National airports was the week’s largest muni sale and its
biggest segment was a 25-year maturity. Florida’s Miami-Dade
County issued $503 million to finance an expansion at Miami
International, and Port Authority of New York and New Jersey,
whose debt is backed by system revenue including airport fees
and bridge tolls, borrowed $400 million, Bloomberg data show.
All three deals priced with yields below the comparably rated
Bloomberg Fair Market Value transportation indexes.  
 Airlines, which pay airports landing and passenger
conveyance fees, are regaining the pricing power they lost
during the recession, according to the  Air Transport Association 
trade group. Domestic yields, or average fare per mile, rose
each month this year through June after falling every month in
2009, the group said.  
 Airline Recovery  
 Delta Air Lines Inc .,  AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines and the
other seven largest U.S. carriers posted a combined 4.5 percent
increase in traffic for June, the biggest gain in a year-and-a-
half, according to data provided by the airlines. Traffic,
measured in miles flown by paying passengers, had fallen every
month of 2009 when businesses curbed travel spending and leisure
travelers postponed trips.  
 The Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority, which had
about $530 million in revenue in 2009, forecasts that to
increase to more than $825 million by 2016, according to
preliminary offering documents. Miami-Dade, Florida’s largest
county, had almost $604 million in revenue last year, which is
projected to surpass $1 billion by 2016, the documents show.  
 ‘Essential Services’  
 “The major metropolitan area airports are certainly
essential services,” said  Philip Condon , head of municipal bond
portfolio management for DWS Investments, which oversees about
$10 billion in its municipal bond funds. “They trade cheap as a
sector compared with other essential services” even though
“Miami certainly won’t decide to give up its airport and New
York certainly won’t decide to give up its airport,” he said.  
 Next week’s issuance will include bond sales for
Minneapolis Metropolitan Airport and San Francisco Airport,
Bloomberg data show.  
 The sales this week came as yields on top-rated, tax-exempt
general obligations due in 10 years fell 2 basis points this
week to an average of  2.86 percent , the lowest in at least nine-
and-a-half years, according to Concord, Massachusetts-based MMA
data since January 2001.  
 Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  
 NEW YORK CITY, the third-largest U.S. municipal borrower,
plans to sell $800 million in general-obligation bonds as early
as next week to refinance debt. The bonds, rated Aa2 by Moody’s
Investors Service and AA by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings,
all third-highest, will be marketed by a group led by Barclays
Plc. (Updated July 20)  
 TEXAS TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION, which oversees the
department that manages highway, rail, port and rural transit
systems in the  second-largest  U.S. state, plans to sell $1.5
billion in securities including $1.38 billion of Build America
Bonds and $116 million in tax-exempt debt on July 26 to pay for
highway improvements.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . will lead the
marketing of the bonds, which have top ratings from S&P and
Moody’s.  Alaska  is the biggest U.S. state by area. (Added July
21)  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Esmé E. Deprez  in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        