-- Wheat, Little Changed, Caps Fourth Weekly Gain as Weather Hurts World Crop
-- Tony C. Dreibus
-- 2010-07-23T19:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/wheat-rises-as-adverse-weather-in-russia-canada-reduces-grain-production.html

          
          
             Wheat futures, little changed today,
capped the fourth straight weekly gain as adverse weather
slashed production in Russia and Canada, two of the world’s
four-biggest exporters.  
 Drought in Russia damaged 32 percent of the planted grain,
Agriculture Minister  Yelena Skrynnik  said today. Harvests in
Canada and Ukraine will decline after excessive rainfall reduced
seeding and hurt crop prospects. The price gained 1.5 percent
this week and is up 24 percent in July.  
 “Canada has some problems, and there’s concern about
severe drought in Russia and Eastern Europe and drought in
China,” said  Dan Kuechenmeister , the manager of the commodities
department at RBC Dain Rauscher in Minneapolis. “Wheat’s had a
good surge. Now we need to make sure the underlying fundamentals
support the move.”  
 Wheat futures for September delivery fell 0.25 cent to
$5.9625 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade. Yesterday, the
grain reached $6.10, the highest level for a most-active
contract since June 16, 2009.  
 Wheat rose as much as 1.2 percent today, before settling
lower. The price may have declined from its highs as investors
weighed evidence of ample global stockpiles and increased U.S.
output against concerns that supplies are dropping from some
major exporters.  
 “U.S. supplies are good and we have no real problems
here,” Kuechenmeister said. “The market needs to catch its
breath.” Some speculative investors also may be closing
positions before the weekend, especially if they had bet prices
would rise, he said.  
 The U.S. is the biggest exporter, followed by Canada,
Australia and Russia. Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop,
valued at $10.6 billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay,
government data show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony C. Dreibus  in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        