-- White-Collar Prisons Open as Black Goes First: Ann Woolner
-- Ann Woolner
-- 2010-07-23T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/white-collar-prisons-open-as-black-goes-first-commentary-by-ann-woolner.html

          
          
             A prison gate in Florida opened this
week to free former newspaper magnate  Conrad Black . The first
white-collar convict helped by a new decision from the U.S.
Supreme Court, Black won’t be the last.  
 The ruling isn’t going to empty U.S. prisons of all ex-
executives and public officials accused of cheating shareholders
or taxpayers. Total exoneration will be rare at best, and Black
might find himself back in custody once his case plays out.  
 The court said it is no longer a stand-alone crime to
deprive others of the so-called intangible right to honest
services. Without an actual bribe or kickback, forget about it.  
 OK, so the honest services  law  was too vague and broad to
be constitutional. It is, after all, not possible to outlaw
every type of ethical breach and send to prison those who engage
in them.  
 And yet it’s impossible not to lament the un-
criminalization of such sleazy corporate and political conduct
that, well, cheated shareholders and citizens of honest
services.  
 “You violated your duty to Hollinger International
shareholders,” U.S. District Judge  Amy St. Eve  in Chicago told
Black as she sentenced him in 2007.  
 Skimming Millions  
 The jury found Black and cohorts guilty of skimming $6.1
million from the sale of company properties and claiming it was
for non-compete payments when it wasn’t. Plus, jurors said he
obstructed justice by trying to hide documents.  
 “I frankly cannot understand how someone of your stature,
at the top of the media empire, could engage in the conduct you
engaged in,” St. Eve said when she sentenced him to 6 1/2
years.  
 Today, 28 months after he entered a low-security prison,
Black faces the same judge in Chicago. Only now she is telling
him the parameters of his new freedom. An appeals court ordered
bond to be set for him after the Supreme Court weakened the law
used to convict him.  
 For Black and others whose convictions include an honest-
services fraud count, the ruling might shave time off their
sentences. Among those hoping for that, or for total reversals
of their convictions, are former Enron Corp. Chief Executive
Officer  Jeffrey Skilling , ex-Alabama Governor  Don Siegelman  and
HealthSouth Corp. founder  Richard Scrushy .  
 Abramoff Protégé  
 Also hopeful is Kevin Ring, a former congressional aide
charged but not convicted as a protégé to busted lobbyist  Jack Abramoff .  
 After a hung jury last year, Ring was set to be retried
next month on bribery, honest-services fraud and obstruction of
justice counts.  
 Given the new ruling, the judge is considering knocking out
some of the charges.  
 “I am worried about whether there is sufficient evidence
to sustain an indictment with the new definition of
bribery/materiality,” U.S. District Judge  Ellen Huvelle  said at
a hearing earlier this month, the Washington Post  reported .  
 Likewise, she postponed the sentencing of another Abramoff
associate, Michael Scanlon.  
 As for Abramoff, he is nearing the end of his four-year
sentence on public corruption and fraud charges. He pleaded
guilty and helped investigators build cases against others. Some
19 congressional aides, members of Congress and other officials
were convicted, according to the Post.  
 Would Abramoff have been as vulnerable to prosecution if
it weren’t for the honest-services law? It would have been a
closer call.  
 Been Here Before  
 We have gotten to this point before. In 1987, the Supreme
Court struck down a similar law for similar reasons. A Kentucky
official had been convicted after throwing the state’s insurance
business to a friend, but the justices said there was no showing
of public harm. No one had been deprived of tangible property,
and the court found the law unconstitutional.  
 So Congress wrote another law, one members hoped would pass
constitutional muster. It was the honest services statute, and
it worked for more than 20 years, until now.  
 The new ruling presents a reason for lawmakers to try
again, as well as a good excuse not to. The Supreme Court has
made it clear it won’t accept a broadly written law, and so far
Congress hasn’t been able to write one narrowly enough to outlaw
that which it wishes to without covering conduct that shouldn’t
be criminal.  
 They need to try. The corporate self-dealing the Black case
represents and the influence-peddling at the heart of the
Abramoff cases can’t possibly be legal.  
 But they are, unless Congress acts.  
 ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Ann Woolner  in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        