-- White House Narrows 2010 Deficit Estimate to $1.47 Trillion
-- Roger Runningen
-- 2010-07-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/white-house-narrows-2010-federal-deficit-estimate-to-record-1-47-trillion.html

          
          
             A mid-year budget review by the
Obama administration forecasts the  deficit  will be $1.47
trillion this year and $1.42 trillion next year as the U.S.
struggles to recover from the recession.  
 This year’s budget shortfall is $84 billion less than
President  Barack Obama ’s budget office projected in February
because of lower than projected spending for unemployment and
some government programs. Still, the total would be a record and
represent 10 percent of gross domestic product.  
 The administration projects the U.S. economy will grow 3.2
percent this year, compared with 2.7 percent forecast in
February. Growth is projected at 3.6 percent next year and 4.2
percent in 2012. The review says the  unemployment  rate will
average 9.7 percent this year, 9 percent next year and won’t
fall below 6 percent until 2015.  
 “The most pressing danger we now face is unacceptably weak
growth and persistent unemployment,” budget director  Peter Orszag  said in a conference call with reporters yesterday as the
White House released the  annual report .  
 The review was published less than four months before the
midterm elections that will decide control of Congress.
Republicans, seeking to overturn Democratic majorities in the
House and Senate, say they will make government spending and
debt a top issue in the campaign.  
 Representative  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin, the top Republican
on the House Budget Committee, said Obama, after 18 months in
office, must take ownership of the budget instead of laying
blame on the previous administration.  
 ‘Relentless Expansion’  
 The mid-year review is “a revealing look at the costly
consequences of this administration’s relentless expansion in
the size and scope of the federal government,” Ryan said in a
statement.  
 Even as the economy returns to growth, the OBM projects tax
receipts will be lower over the next decade than originally
forecast in February.  
 The revised numbers reflect “the slow pace of the economic
recovery,” said  David Primo , a political science professor who
tracks budgets and politics at the University of Rochester.
“This spells trouble for Obama’s goal to cut the deficit in
half by the end of his first term.”  
 The White House report says the projections show the budget
is “still on track” to meet the president’s goal, going from
9.2 percent of gross domestic product when Obama took office in
January 2009 to 4.3 percent of GDP for fiscal 2013.  
 Long-Term Effects  
 “The collapse of the housing bubble and the subsequent
financial crisis have taken a significant toll on the economy,
and many of the after-effects are likely to be felt for years to
come,” the Office of Management and Budget report says.  
 Senator  Kent Conrad  of North Dakota, the Democratic
chairman of the budget committee, said “the real challenge”
facing the government is dealing with deficits over the longer
term because of the aging U.S. population and rising health-care
costs.  
 “What we should be doing now is putting in place deficit
reduction policies that will kick in after the economy has more
fully recovered,” Conrad, a member of the president’s deficit
commission, said in a statement. “If we fail to act, we could
see deficits return to current levels or worse, and continue
unabated into the future.”  
 Obama created the 18-member deficit commission to recommend
by December, after the midterm elections, ways to curb deficits
to about 3 percent of the GDP by 2015, a level most economists
say is sustainable.  
 Public Debt  
 The federal debt, the sum of all prior deficits, is
projected to rise to $10.6 trillion, or 68.9 percent of the GDP
in 2011 and will continue increasing over the next decade to a
projected 77.4 percent of GDP in 2020, according to the report.  
 “The problem is, we have these structural deficits over
the longer term, and without big changes to taxes and spending,
that presents a problem to longer-run economic growth,” Gus
Faucher, an economist at  Moody’s Analytics Inc. , said before the
report’s release.  
 The report cites signs indicating continued economic
growth, including expanded consumer and business spending. “The
U.S. economy still faces strong headwinds,” the document says,
including constrained credit markets, an “overhang” of unsold
houses and cuts in spending by state governments.  
 Another impediment is the European debt crisis, which is
putting the continent’s recovery at risk, the budget office
says. “The European Union has acted forcefully, however, to
confront these issues,” it says.  
 Inflation  
 The new budget forecast sees inflation under control,
rising 1.6 percent this year, against a 1.9 percent increase
forecast in February. Prices may rise 1.3 percent next year,
compared with 1.5 percent forecast when the budget was issued in
February.  
 A CNN-Opinion Research Corp.  poll  released yesterday showed
42 percent of those surveyed approved of Obama’s handling of the
economy while 57 percent disapproved. It was the lowest approval
rating since he took office. The survey conducted July 16-21
among 1,018 adults had an error margin of plus or minus 3
percentage points.  
 The budget review is one of Orszag’s last major actions
before he leaves his post this month. Obama has nominated  Jack Lew , a former budget chief under President  Bill Clinton , to
succeed Orszag as director of the OMB.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. President Barack Obama makes remarks at the White House in Washington. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Analytics Inc., discusses the outlook for extending the Bush tax cuts, which are set to expire at the end of this year.
     Zandi, talking with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "In Business," also discusses the stress tests of European banks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
