-- Wipro Profit Beats Estimates on Outsourcing Demand
-- Jay Shankar
-- 2010-07-23T08:46:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/wipro-reports-first-quarter-profit-increase-beating-analysts-estimates.html

          
          
             Wipro Ltd. , India’s third-largest
software exporter, posted a 31 percent jump in profit and
beat analysts’ estimates as demand for computer services rose.
The shares rose.  
 Net income  gained to 13.2 billion rupees ($281 million)
in the three months ended June 30, compared with 10.1 billion
rupees a year earlier, Bangalore-based Wipro said today. That
surpassed the 12.1 billion rupees average of 34 analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Wipro’s results add to those of industry leader  Tata
Consultancy Services Ltd.  in signaling rising demand for
India’s software services as companies step up technology
spending. Wipro’s billionaire Chairman  Azim Premji , who
responded to a global slowdown last year by freezing pay for
almost 100,000 workers, today said the company added a record
number of “billable” employees in the first fiscal quarter.  
 “Since the recession, companies in the West have become
extremely conscious on the cost front,” said  Jayesh Shroff ,
who manages more than $1.4 billion in equities at SBI Funds
Management Pvt., in Mumbai, including 1.2 million shares of
Wipro. “Outsourcing of IT has become that much more
imperative. Earlier, it was primarily Fortune 500 that were
looking to outsource. Now that universe is rapidly
expanding.”  
 Strong Demand Environment  
 Sales  rose 16 percent to 72.4 billion rupees. That
compared with the 71.9 billion rupees average of analysts’
estimates.  
 Wipro  gained as much as 4.2 percent and traded 0.5
percent higher at 417.50 rupees, the highest since April 27,
as of 1:11 p.m. in Mumbai. The benchmark Sensitive Index rose
0.2 percent.  
 “We are seeing a strong demand environment across our
industry verticals,” Premji said in a  statement .  
 Wipro provides computer services such as designing and
building software programs, product-engineering and back-
office support to  BP Plc , William Morrison Supermarkets Plc,
Pitney Bowes Inc. and other customers. The company, which
also makes soaps, light bulbs and hydraulic equipment, added
22 clients in the last quarter.  
 Worldwide information technology spending, which
includes computer equipment and software purchases, will grow
7.8 percent this year after falling 8.9 percent to $1.5
trillion in 2009, according to a July 21 report from
Forrester Research Inc. The U.S. will lead the growth,
spending an estimated $564 billion on information technology
this year.  
 Spending in the U.S. will outpace gross domestic product
growth as companies make up for orders delayed during last
year’s recession, according to the Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based research firm.  
 Economists surveyed by Bloomberg this month said U.S.
GDP will expand 3.1 percent in 2010 after the world’s largest
economy grew at the fastest pace in six years in the fourth
quarter, with a 5.6 percent annual rate.  
 ‘Up For Grabs’  
 Infosys Technologies Ltd. , India’s second-ranked
software provider, on July 13 reported profit fell 2.6
percent to 14.9 billion rupees after a 30 percent jump in
taxes offset a 13 percent increase in first-quarter sales.
“While the global economic environment remains uncertain, we
continue to see greater demand for services,” Chief
Executive Officer  S. Gopalakrishnan  said at the time.  
 Tata Consultancy Services last week reported a fifth
consecutive quarterly increase in net income as revenue
jumped 14 percent to 82.2 billion rupees. The company is in
negotiations to add 15 “large” software-services contracts,
Chief Executive Officer  N Chandrasekaran  said at the time.  
 “Based on the performances we’ve seen from Infosys and
Tata Consultancy Services, it’s become clear that there are
volumes up for grabs in the near future,” said  Vihang Naik ,
an analyst at MF Global Ltd. in Mumbai. “On the pricing
front, we’re not seeing any pressure from clients. Maybe in a
couple of quarters you might even see a pricing uptick.”  
 ‘Much More Stable’  
 Indian software vendors cut prices and renegotiated
contracts last year to keep clients who were less willing to
spend on technology during the recession. The pricing
environment was “much more stable” now, Wipro’s Chief
Financial Officer  Suresh Senapaty  said today.  
 Revenue from the company’s information technology
services business may increase as much as 6.1 percent from
the previous quarter to $1.28 billion in the three months
ending Sept. 30, Wipro forecast.  
 Wipro, which  derived  57 percent of its information
technology services revenue from North America and 25 percent
from Europe last quarter, won  orders  in the period from three
Indian state governments and reached an agreement to manage a
data center for Citigroup Inc. near Dusseldorf, Germany.  
 Wipro added a net 4,854  employees  at its technology unit
last quarter to end the period with 112,925 workers,
according to a statement from the company. In June, Premji
said the company could add as many as 20,000 employees in the
next three years.  
 ‘Warning Sign’  
 Still, workers at the company’s technology services unit,
excluding the back-office and India and Middle East
businesses, left Wipro at a rate of 23 percent in the quarter,
up from 17 percent the previous quarter, and 8.4 percent a
year earlier. The rise in attrition rates is a “warning
sign” that “needs watching,”  Bhavtosh Vajpayee , head of
technology research with CLSA Ltd. in Hong Kong, wrote in a
note to clients.  
 The company increased salaries for its Indian workers by
9 percent in the quarter ended March 31, Senapaty said on a
conference call in April, while larger rival Infosys gave 14
percent to 16 percent wage increases to retain Indian workers.  
 “Currency impacts and wage inflation are the main
things to be wary of,” in information technology companies,
MF Global’s Naik said. The experienced employees who help the
company command a better billing rate from its customers
“are in short supply and the poaching in those areas is
causing attrition and wage hikes,” he said.  
 Euro Slump  
 The euro’s weakness, the currency has lost 10 percent
against the dollar this year, and ripples from the Greek debt
crisis could result in a 12 percent to 15 percent loss in
income for the Europe-based businesses of Indian IT vendors,
according to estimates from Forrester. If the euro continues
to depreciate, companies may lose more than 20 percent on
each European deal, Sudin Apte, a Pune, India-based analyst
at Forrester, wrote in a July 1 note to clients.  
 “It’s certainly having an impact on Indian IT
vendors,” Forrester analyst  Andrew Bartels  said in a phone
interview last week. Much of the impact from “lagging”
Europe will be offset by an increase in demand from the U.S.
and emerging markets in Asia and Latin America, he said.
“There’s a strong recovery underway this year, driven by
investments in smart computing technologies” that can adapt
to location and conditions.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ketaki Gokhale  in Mumbai 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;
 Jay Shankar  in Bangalore at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Azim Hasham Premji, chairman and chief executive officer of Wipro Ltd, listens during an interview in New York. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          May 10 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg-UTV's Balakrishnan reports on how concerns about euro-region's economic outlook are affecting sales of Indian information-technology companies. 
     European policy makers unveiled an unprecedented loan package worth almost $1 trillion and a program of bond purchases as they spearheaded a global drive to stop a sovereign-debt crisis that threatened to shatter confidence in the euro. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
