-- South Korean Won, Malaysian Ringgit Lead Gains in Asia on Growth Prospects
-- Lilian Karunungan
-- 2010-07-23T22:11:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/won-ringgit-lead-advance-in-asian-currencies-on-prospects-for-growth.html

          
          
             South Korea’s won and Malaysia’s
ringgit led weekly gains among  Asian  currencies on signs global
investors are seeking higher returns in emerging markets because
of their faster economic growth.  
 Asian equities and emerging-market debt attracted more fund
inflows last week as investors withdrew money from developed-
market stocks, according to Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
research company  EPFR Global . Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who has kept benchmark rates near zero since December
2008, said July 21 U.S. policy makers are prepared to take steps
to aid growth because of an “unusually uncertain” outlook.  
 “The comments on the U.S. economic outlook will support
risk-taking momentum and demand for higher yields,” said Godwin
Chan, a trader in Kuala Lumpur at OSK Investment Bank Bhd.  
 The won rose 0.4 percent this week to 1,199.15 per dollar
in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The ringgit
and the Singapore dollar each appreciated by the same amount in
the week to 3.1965 and S$1.3709, respectively.  
 The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index has climbed 0.4
percent in the past five days as the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  of
regional stocks had a third straight weekly advance. Developing
economies in Asia will expand 9.2 percent in 2010, compared with
2.6 percent for advanced countries, the International Monetary
Fund said on July 7.  
 South Korea  
 A report next week will probably show South Korea’s economy
grew for a sixth straight quarter.  Gross domestic product , the
fourth largest in Asia, grew 1.3 percent in the second quarter
from the prior three months, according to the median of seven
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey before data due on July 26.  
 The Bank of Korea boosted its benchmark  interest rate  this
month to 2.25 percent from a record-low 2 percent. Bank Negara
Malaysia raised its overnight rate three times so far this year
to 2.75 percent after first-quarter economic growth accelerated
at the fastest pace in a decade.  
 “Any currency belonging to a country with rising growth is
attractive relative to the U.S. dollar,” said  Douglas Borthwick ,
Connecticut-based managing director and head of trading for
Faros Trading LLC.  
 Taiwan’s dollar, which is little changed for the week,
gained 0.1 percent to NT$32.152 yesterday. Foreign investors
have pumped $1.2 billion into the island’s stocks this month,
according to exchange data. A government report released after
the market closed yesterday showed factory output rose 24
percent in June from a year earlier, exceeding the median
 estimate  in a Bloomberg Survey of economists for a 22 percent
increase.  
 “Hot money is pouring into the stock market,” said  Eric Hsing , a debt trader at First Securities Inc. in Taipei. “The
central bank will continue to slow the Taiwan dollar’s growth to
keep its edge on exports.”  
 Indian Rupee  
 The Indian rupee climbed 0.4 percent yesterday to 46.945
per dollar, paring its loss for the week to 0.4 percent, after
the EPFR report showed investors poured money into equity funds
focused on India and China in the week ended July 21. India
funds received a net $187 million, the most in 51 weeks, while
China money managers took in $138 million, EPFR said. Funds
investing in stocks in Asia excluding Japan got more than $800
million for the second week in a row, it said.  
 The baht strengthened 0.2 percent yesterday to 32.22 per
dollar, paring its weekly loss, on speculation foreign funds are
flowing into Thailand and after the improved profit outlook by
U.S. companies eased concern the global economic recovery is
faltering.  
 United Parcel Service Inc. and AT&T Inc. increased their
profit forecasts on July 22, bolstering optimism for corporate
earnings in the U.S.  
 Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah and Philippine  peso  are
little changed for the week at 9,048 and 46.315 against the
dollar, respectively.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net ;
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        