-- Won, Ringgit Lead Weekly Advance in Asia as Funds Bet on Growth Prospects
-- Khalid Qayum
-- 2010-07-23T05:06:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/won-ringgit-lead-weekly-advance-in-asia-as-funds-bet-on-growth-prospects.html

          
          
             South Korea’s won and Malaysia’s
ringgit led weekly gains among  Asian  currencies on signs global
investors are seeking higher returns in emerging markets because
of their faster economic growth.  
 Asian equities and emerging-market debt attracted more fund
inflows last week as investors withdrew money from developed-
market stocks, according to research company  EPFR Global .
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, who has kept benchmark
rates near zero since December 2008, said July 21 U.S. policy
makers are prepared to take steps to aid growth because of an
“unusually uncertain” outlook.  
 “The comments on the U.S. economic outlook will support
risk-taking momentum and demand for higher yields,” said Godwin
Chan, a trader in Kuala Lumpur at OSK Investment Bank Bhd.  
 The won rose 0.5 percent this week to 1,196.85 per dollar
as of 1:49 p.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The ringgit appreciated 0.2 percent to 3.2025 in the
week.  
 The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index has climbed 0.3
percent in the past five days as the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  of
regional equities headed for third straight weekly advance.
Developing economies in Asia will expand 9.2 percent in 2010
compared with 2.6 percent for advanced countries, the
International Monetary Fund said on July 7.  
 South Korea  
 A report next week will probably show South Korea’s economy
grew for a sixth straight quarter.  Gross domestic product , the
fourth largest in Asia, grew 1.3 percent in the second quarter
from the prior three months, according to the median of seven
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey before data due on July 26.  
 “Any currency belonging to a country with rising growth is
attractive relative to the U.S. dollar,” said  Douglas Borthwick ,
Connecticut-based managing director and head of trading for
Faros Trading LLC.  
 Taiwan’s dollar, which is little changed for the week,
gained 0.2 percent to NT$32.118 today. Foreign investors have
pumped $811.5 million into the Taiwan stock market this month,
according to stock exchange data. Government data today will
show factory output rose 22 percent in June from a year earlier,
gaining for the 10th straight month, according to the median
 estimate  in a Bloomberg Survey of economists.  
 United Parcel Service Inc. and AT&T Inc. increased their
profit forecasts yesterday, bolstering optimism for corporate
earnings in the U.S., Taiwan’s second-largest overseas market.  
 “Hot money is pouring into the stock market,” said  Eric Hsing , a debt trader at First Securities Inc. in Taipei. “The
central bank will continue to slow the Taiwan dollar’s growth to
keep its edge on exports.”  
 Indian Rupee  
 The Indian rupee climbed 0.3 percent to 47.02 per dollar,
paring its loss for the week to 0.5 percent, after the EPFR
report showed investors poured money into equity funds focused
on India and China in the week ended July 21. India funds
received a net $187 million, the most in 51 weeks, while China
money managers took in $138 million, EPFR said. Funds investing
in stocks in Asia excluding Japan got more than $800 million for
the second week in a row, it said.  
 Thailand’s baht strengthened 0.1 percent to 32.26 per
dollar, paring its weekly loss, on speculation foreign funds are
flowing into Thailand and after increased profit outlook by U.S.
companies eased concern the global economic recovery is
faltering.  
 Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah and Philippine  peso  are
little changed for the week at 9,051 and 46.395 against the
dollar, respectively.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        