-- Woodside Sales Rise 48% on Oil Prices, `Ramps Up' Gas Search for Pluto LNG
-- James Paton
-- 2010-07-23T04:47:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/woodside-second-quarter-sales-increase-48-on-higher-prices-for-oil-gas.html

          
          
             Woodside Petroleum Ltd. , Australia’s
second-biggest oil and gas producer, said sales rose 48 percent
in the second quarter and it “continues to ramp up” efforts to
find gas to expand a liquefied natural gas project.  
 Sales increased to $1.07 billion in the three months ended
June from $728 million a year earlier, Woodside said in a
statement today to the Australian stock exchange. UBS AG
had expected revenue to climb to $927 million, while analysts at
JP Morgan Chase & Co. estimated sales of $971 million.  
 Benchmark crude oil prices averaged about 30 percent higher
in New York in the quarter from a year earlier, helping Woodside
overcome a 10 percent drop in production to 17.5 million barrels
of oil equivalent. Output weakened from the preceding three
months because of maintenance shutdowns at the North West Shelf
project, the sale of the company’s Otway assets and aging fields,
the Perth-based company said.  
 Woodside  advanced 2.4 percent to A$42 at 2:43 p.m. in
Sydney trading, compared with a 2.1 percent gain in the
benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 Index .  
 A decision to expand the A$13 billion ($11.6 billion) Pluto
project, one of more than a dozen proposed LNG ventures in
Australia targeting Asian demand for cleaner-burning fuels,
depends on the results of a drilling campaign or talks with
other gas suppliers, Woodside said.  
 ‘Challenging’ Target  
 The company’s year-end target for making an investment
decision on the expansion “looks challenging,” JPMorgan
analyst  Benjamin Wilson  said.  
 “The longer Woodside goes without defining a resource, the
greater the imperative there is to do a deal with other resource
owners,” Wilson said by telephone from Sydney today. New York-
based Hess Corp. is the company most likely to feed gas to the
Pluto development from fields off Western Australia, he said.  
 Pluto  was 91 percent complete at the end of June, Woodside
said. Crane operations restarted at the Pluto site in Karratha,
about 1,600 kilometers (994 miles) north of Perth, after the
national labor tribunal, Fair Work Australia, it said.  
 Some 12 crane drivers and forklift operators, employees of
Dutch contractor Mammoet, began striking on April 28 seeking pay
raises, Woodside said last month. The Pluto venture is due to
start exports in early 2011, even though labor disputes have
disrupted construction, the gas producer said in June.  
 Drilling to find gas to support an expansion of Pluto
“continues to ramp up” with the arrival of the Ocean America
rig in late June, and the company is preparing to drill the
Alaric prospect off the Western Australian coast, Woodside said
today. “In addition, discussions continue with other resource
owners.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        