-- Police Raid Woori Bank in Korea on Construction Loans
-- Seonjin Cha
-- 2010-07-23T08:20:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/woori-bank-headquarters-raided-by-korean-police-on-project-financing-loans.html

          
          
             Police raided  Woori Bank , the
lending unit of South Korea’s third-largest financial company,
to investigate the role of employees in construction loans that
may turn sour.  
 The police began searching Woori Bank’s headquarters in
Seoul at 10 a.m. today after the lender asked authorities to
examine real estate project financing loans, spokesman  Jung Hee Kyung  said today by telephone.  
 South Korea plans to spend 2.8 trillion won ($2.3 billion)
to acquire impaired construction loans from small savings banks
and lenders have been told to set aside an additional 2.2
trillion won in reserves to help construction, shipbuilding and
shipping companies restructure debt. The police probe comes as
the government prepares a plan on how to privatize  Woori Finance
Holdings Co. , the bank’s parent company.  
 “The morale and reputation of some Woori Bank employees
will be hurt by this, but I don’t see it affecting earnings,”
said  Han Jeong Tae , an analyst at Hana Daetoo Securities Co. in
Seoul. “This is a case of corruption by individuals and I don’t
think it reflects wider risk at Woori Bank or its parent.”  
 Woori Finance shares rose 3.9 percent to 14,650 won in
Seoul today, compared with a 1.3 percent gain in the benchmark
Kospi stock index.  
 Privatization Plan  
 The Financial Services Commission said last week it would
complete discussions by the end of this month on plans to
privatize Woori Finance. The government holds a 57 percent stake
in the company.  
 The police investigation today coincides with the Financial
Supervisory Service’s examination of  Woori Finance ’s Kyongnam
Bank unit after learning that employees in the structured
finance division used the lender’s seal inappropriately for debt
guarantees. The company said in June it was monitoring the
Kyongnam case probe and would take appropriate action after the
regulator makes its conclusion. Jung declined to comment on this
case today.  
 Woori Finance holds 99.9 percent stake in Kyongnam and owns
all of Woori Bank.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        