-- Wynn Resorts, Calpine Sell Debt as High Yield Company Bond Issuance Climbs
-- Tim Catts
-- 2010-07-23T21:52:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/wynn-resorts-calpine-sell-debt-as-high-yield-company-bond-issuance-climbs.html

          
          
             Wynn Resorts Ltd. , billionaire
 Stephen Wynn ’s casino company, and Houston-based  Calpine Corp. 
issued debt this week as sales of speculative-grade corporate
bonds climbed to the highest in almost three months.  
 Calpine, the biggest U.S. producer of power from natural
gas, raised $1.1 billion in its fourth debt sale since May 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Las Vegas-based Wynn
Resorts issued $1.32 billion of notes in its biggest-ever bond
sale. They led $5.83 billion of high-yield, high-risk issuance,
the most in a week since April 30.  
 Companies sold $23 billion of debt, matching or exceeding
the 2010 average for the fourth time in five weeks, as investors
gained confidence in the economic recovery and the financial
regulatory overhaul signed into law by President  Barack Obama 
won’t cripple bank profits. With flows into high-yield mutual
funds climbing, issuance may continue to grow, said  Richard Inzunza , a money manager at Northern Trust Global Investments.  
 “New issuance has increased, but not enough to absorb all
that cash that’s sitting out there on the sidelines,” Inzunza,
who’s based in Chicago, said in a telephone interview. “That’s
very conducive for issuers to come back to the market.”  
 The extra yield investors demand to own speculative-grade
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries declined 18 basis points to 659
basis points, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
U.S. High Yield Master II Index. Overall yields fell to 8.647
percent, the lowest since May 6, the index data show.  
 High-yield debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  
 Falling Yields  
 Yields on investment-grade corporate debt declined for the
fourth straight week, falling to 4.16 percent after touching
4.11 percent, the lowest since March 2004, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show. Spreads on the bonds tightened 5
basis points to 193 basis.  
 Treasury-bond yields fell after Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said central bankers “remain prepared to take
further policy actions as needed” amid an “unusually
uncertain” economic outlook in testimony to the Senate Banking
Committee on July 21.  
 The yield on the 10-year  Treasury note , the market
bellwether, fell as low as 2.85 percent, the least since April
2009, on July 21, ending the week at 2.99 percent. The two-year
notes yield traded as low as 0.5519 percent on July 23, the
lowest on record, ending the day at 0.5842.  
 Weekly Average  
 This week’s corporate bond sales compare with a 2010
average of $19.6 billion and issuance last week of $26.9
billion.  
 The sales of speculative-grade bonds by Calpine and Wynn
Resorts this week, led the  most  since the period ended April 30
and were 31 percent above this year’s average of $4.46 billion,
Bloomberg data show.  
 Among the week’s other high-yield sales, Indosat Palapa
Co., a unit of Indonesia’s second-largest phone operator, sold
$650 million of 10-year debt and Sao Paolo-based JBS SA, the
world’s biggest beef producer, issued $700 million of notes
maturing in January 2018.  
 Investors deposited $948 million in high-yield mutual funds
in the week ended July 21, following inflows of $1.1 billion a
week earlier, according to EPFR Global, a Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based firm that tracks fund flows.  
 High-yield bond sales plunged from $34 billion in April to
$6.71 billion in May and $7.84 billion in June as investors shed
risky assets amid concerns that Europe’s sovereign debt crisis
would spread, slowing global growth. Issuance is recovering even
as buyers demand more yield and stronger creditor protections to
buy low-rated debt, Northern Trust’s Inzunza said.  
 ‘More Rational’  
 “New issuance always seems to go in cycles, and toward the
end people will buy anything at any price,” Inzunza said. “It
seems more like we’re at the beginning of the cycle where people
are more rational.”  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley each sold $3
billion of debt to lead $17.1 billion of investment-grade
corporate bond sales, Bloomberg data show. That’s 13 percent
above the 2010 weekly average of $15.2 billion.  
 The sales came after Obama signed into law on July 21 the
most sweeping overhaul of financial regulation since the Great
Depression, ending a yearlong legislative battle. They also
follow New York-based Goldman Sachs’s settlement with the
Securities and Exchange Commission of a lawsuit alleging it
misled investors in a collateralized debt obligation.  
 “Fixed-income investors are going to enjoy the fact that
Goldman’s out of the spotlight,” said  Mitchell Stapley , chief
fixed-income officer for Fifth Third Asset Management, which
oversees $13 billion of bond-market investments in Grand Rapids,
Michigan.  
 “It feels like you’ve taken the level of acrimony between
Washington and Wall Street down a bit. That’s good news for
spreads,” Stapley said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        