-- Xstrata Bid for Lonmin Is More Likely After Share Decline, Bernstein Says
-- Carli Lourens
-- 2010-07-23T09:29:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/xstrata-bid-for-lonmin-now-more-likely-after-share-decline-bernstein-says.html

          
          
             Xstrata Plc , the biggest exporter of
coal for power stations, is more likely to revive a takeover bid
for  Lonmin Plc  after the platinum producer’s shares declined 30
percent from an April peak, according to Sanford C. Bernstein.  
 Xstrata is also in a better financial position to restart a
bid after cutting the proportion of its debt to assets,  Paul Galloway , a senior mining analyst at Sanford, wrote in a note.  
 The mining  company , based in Zug, Switzerland, abandoned a
hostile bid for Lonmin in October 2008 after a plunge in metal
prices. Xstrata Chief Executive Officer  Mick Davis  said in
December that his company, which still owns a quarter of Lonmin,
doesn’t want to remain a minority investor. Xstrata spokeswoman
 Pam Bell  declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg today.  
 “The possibility of Xstrata rebidding for Lonmin has
increased,” Galloway wrote. Xstrata “is becoming rapidly de-
geared,” he said.  
 Shares in  Lonmin , the world’s third-largest platinum
producer, were “much higher” when Xstrata acquired its stake
than they are now, “which surely is giving Mick Davis food for
thought,”  Ambrian Capital Plc  said in a note.  
 Xstrata offered 3,300 pence a share, or 5 billion pounds
($7.7 billion) for Lonmin in August 2008. Lonmin traded at 1,501
pence at 10:15 a.m. in London today, giving it a market value of
3 billion pounds.  
 Operational improvements must also make Lonmin a more
attractive target for Xstrata, RBC Capital Markets said in a
note dated yesterday.  
 Xstrata also dropped a bid for Anglo American Plc, which
controls the world’s largest  platinum producer , in October.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        