-- Japan Says Yen Climb May Hurt Economy, Increasing Policy-Intervention Risk
-- Toru Fujioka
-- 2010-07-23T09:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/yen-s-rapid-advance-may-hurt-japan-s-export-led-expansion-minister-says.html

          
          
             Japanese policy makers for a third
straight day signaled that a stronger yen poses a danger to
growth in the world’s second-largest economy, spurring
speculation they will take steps to counter that risk.  
 “An abrupt drop in stock prices or an appreciation in the
yen could hurt the economy” because Japan relies on overseas
demand, National Strategy Minister  Satoshi Arai  said in Tokyo.
Cabinet Office official  Keisuke Tsumura  said the yen, which has
risen 9 percent since early May, has been “a bit too high.”  
 Executives of companies from  Sony Corp. , one of the world’s
three biggest consumer electronics firms, to Nippon Yusen K.K.,
the nation’s No. 1 shipping line, said the yen shouldn’t
appreciate further. Macquarie Research said Japan’s authorities
are “close” to intervening in the currency market, and the
central bank may pump additional funds into the financial system.  
 “The yen has strengthened to a point where government
officials can no longer ignore it,” said  Masafumi Yamamoto ,
chief currency strategist at Barclays Plc in Tokyo who used to
work as a currency trader at the Bank of Japan. “When the
Japanese currency reaches 85, we are likely to see verbal
intervention by the officials. If that doesn’t work and the yen
appreciates rapidly to 80 or below, chances become high for
actual intervention.”  
 Yen’s Climb  
 Against the dollar, the yen traded at 87.01 at 5:44 p.m. in
Tokyo, about 2.5 percent from the 14-year high it reached in
November. It was also at 112.80 per euro, after surging 11
percent since early May. The gains threaten to erode exporters’
profits earned abroad.  
 Japan’s authorities haven’t intervened to sell yen in the
currency market since 2004, and Group of Seven members have
refrained from coordinated intervention for almost a decade,
since an effort in 2000 to buttress the euro.  
 Officials including Trade Minister  Masayuki Naoshima  this
week also expressed concern at the currency’s gains, while Bank
of Japan Deputy Governor  Hirohide Yamaguchi  said it’s too early
to determine the impact on corporate sentiment.  
 “Japan is close to foreign-exchange intervention, with the
pain threshold probably between 80 to 85 per dollar,”  Richard Jerram , head of Asian economics at Macquarie in Tokyo, said in a
report yesterday. “We would expect the Bank of Japan to
accommodate any intervention with a parallel expansion of its
balance sheet, but it is far from clear that even this would be
effective.”  
 Mizuho’s Take  
 Authorities may intervene when the yen reaches 85, close to
the 14-year high of 84.83 reached in November, according to
 Makoto Noji , a senior market analyst in Tokyo at Mizuho
Securities Co.  
 “The current foreign-exchange level seems a bit too
high,” Tsumura, a parliamentary secretary at the Cabinet Office,
told reporters in Tokyo today. “We need to pay attention to how
this may affect the rebound given that domestic demand is
weak.”  
 Jerram said intervention probably wouldn’t be effective
“in anything other than the short term.” Unlike in 2004, other
central banks have near-zero interest rates and have been
pumping cash into the financial system, he said. Japan’s real
effective exchange rate is only slightly below its long-term
average, Jerram said.  
 Sony’s View  
 Executives predict that the currency will weaken. Sony Vice
Chairman  Ryoji Chubachi  said today the yen can’t appreciate much
further given the Japan’s economic conditions.  
 “The yen has appreciated too much,”  Koji Miyahara ,
chairman of Nippon Yusen, said today at a forum in Nagano,
central Japan. “I’m hoping the yen will depreciate to a range
of 95 to 100 to the dollar as soon as possible.”  
 The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  rose 2.3 percent today,
reversing a five-day drop. The gauge has declined 14 percent in
the past three months.  
 “We want to avoid excessive gains in the yen,” Vice
Finance Minister  Motohisa Ikeda  told reporters yesterday,
referring to the government’s economic growth strategy released
last month. Trade Minister Naoshima said on July 21 that the
currency’s gains pose a risk to the export-led expansion.  
 In contrast, Yamaguchi said that while financial markets
have become more volatile, the central bank won’t be compelled
to act based on a specific exchange-rate level.  
 He said  business confidence  has “improved considerably”
and the threat of a double-dip recession has diminished since
the central bank unveiled a bank-loan program at an emergency
meeting on Dec. 1. It doubled the facility to 20 trillion yen
($230 billion) in March.  
 “Breaking the 85 yen level will be the trigger for the
Bank of Japan to reintroduce easing policies, as was the case
last year,” said Mizuho’s Noji.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
 Toru Fujioka  in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Japan's minister of national strategy Satoshi Arai. Photographer: Kimimasa Mayama/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
