-- Euro Falls as Stress Test Said to Only Consider Trading Losses
-- Oliver Biggadike
-- 2010-07-23T20:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/yen-weakens-versus-euro-as-stocks-gain-boosting-appetite-for-risk-assets.html

          
          
             The euro declined versus a majority
of the most-traded currencies this week as results showing that
only seven banks flunked European Union-wide stress tests failed
to ease concern lenders may not have sufficient capital.  
 “This doesn’t really do a lot to alleviate concerns about
transparency,” said  Win Thin , a senior currency strategist at
Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York. “It looks like the
stress tests weren’t that stressful.”  
 The euro rose today as traders closed out bets that the
currency would weaken further when equities rallied. The yen
fell versus the dollar today as Japanese policy makers signaled
for a third straight day that a stronger currency poses a danger
to growth, spurring speculation they will take steps to counter
that risk. Hungary’s forint snapped a three-day gain as Moody’s
Investors Service said it may reduce the nation’s credit rating.  
 The 16-nation share currency fell 0.1 percent this week to
$1.2914 at 4:28 p.m. in New York, from $1.2930 on July 16. The
yen weakened 1 percent to 87.43 per dollar from 86.57 last week.  
 Seven European Union banks failed the region’s stress tests
with a combined capital shortfall of 3.5 billion euros ($4.5
billion), according to the Committee of European Banking
Supervisors, which coordinated the initiative.  
 EU regulators scrutinized 91 of the bloc’s banks to assess
whether they have enough capital to withstand a recession and
sovereign-debt crisis, with a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6 percent
as a floor. Governments are seeking to reassure investors about
the health of financial institutions after the debt crisis
pummeled the bonds of Greece, Spain and Portugal.  
 ‘Lack of Creditability’  
 The evaluations took into account potential losses only on
government bonds the banks trade, rather than those they are
holding to maturity, according to CEBS. That means the tests are
set to ignore the majority of banks’ holdings of sovereign debt,
investors said.  
 “There’s a lack of credibility,” said  Brian Dolan,  chief
strategist at FOREX.com, a unit of online currency trading firm
Gain Capital in Bedminster, New Jersey. “They don’t think the
scenarios were stressfull enough.”  
 Regulators tested portfolios of sovereign five-year bonds,
assuming a loss of 23.1 percent on Greek debt, 12.3 percent on
Spanish bonds, 14 percent on Portuguese bonds and 4.7 percent on
German state debt, according to CEBS.  
 The European currency fell against 13 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts this week, rising the most against the Japanese
yen. The shared currency drop this week snapped a three-week
rally versus the dollar. It has climbed 5.2 percent in July.  
 Futures Bets Trimmed  
 Futures  traders decreased their bets for a third week that
the euro will decline versus the dollar, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The
difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and other
large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with those
on a gain, known as net shorts, was 24,251 on July 20, compared
with net shorts of 27,050 a week earlier.  
 “What investors recognize and will continue to believe is
that the road for euro-zone banks and euro-zone policy makers is
a long one,” said  Samarjit Shankar , a managing director for the
foreign-exchange group in Boston at BNY Mellon, the world’s
largest custodial bank, with more than $20 trillion in assets
under administration. “It’s going to boil down to
fundamentals.”  
 Europe’s shared currency has declined 8.5 percent this
year, the biggest loss among its developed-world counterparts,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
has gained 3.5 percent, and the yen advanced 11 percent.  
 ‘Cyclical Bet’  
 The 16-nation currency may retrace its 8 percent rally
since trading at the four-year low of $1.1877 on June 7 as
investors borrow euros and sell them to purchase assets in other
nations, according to  Sebastien Galy , a currency strategist at
BNP Paribas SA in New York.  
 “The euro’s likely seen its top,” Galy said. “The
question going forward is whether people are going to make a
cyclical bet the euro versus the dollar as a funding currency.”  
 The euro carry trade investing in Brazilian reais, South
African rand and Australian and New Zealand dollars earned as
much as 17 percent this year through June 28 before the shared
currency’s rally started eroding profits from the trade,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A similar trade funded
in yen has lost 5 percent so far this year, while a dollar-carry
strategy made 2 percent.  
 Intervention Speculation  
 “An abrupt drop in stock prices or an appreciation in the
yen could hurt the economy” because Japan relies on overseas
demand, National Strategy Minister  Satoshi Arai  said in Tokyo.
Cabinet Office official  Keisuke Tsumura  said the yen, which has
risen 9 percent since early May, has been “a bit too high.”  
 Officials including Trade Minister  Masayuki Naoshima  this
week also expressed concern at the currency’s gains, while Bank
of Japan Deputy Governor  Hirohide Yamaguchi  said it’s too early
to determine the impact on corporate sentiment.  
 Japan’s authorities haven’t intervened to sell yen in the
currency market since 2004, and Group of Seven members have
refrained from coordinated intervention for almost a decade,
since an effort in 2000 to buttress the euro.  
 Hungary’s forint dropped 1.9 percent this week against the
euro to 287.60. Moody’s placed the nation’s Baa1 rating, its
third-lowest investment grade, on review for possible downgrade.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Oliver Biggadike  in New York at 
 obiggadike@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A 5 and 20 Euro notes are arranged in Paris. Photographer: Alastair Miller/Bloomberg  
                   
    

 
     
         Audio Download:  Lewis on European Banks, Mellor on Currencies 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
