-- Zijin Checks All Plants After Spill in Fujian; Gold Production Is Normal
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-23T04:08:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-23/zijin-checks-all-plants-after-acid-waste-spill-gold-production-is-normal.html

          
          
                  July 23 (Bloomberg) --  Zijin Mining Group Co. , China’s
largest gold producer, said it checked all its plants to avoid a
repeat of a waste leak that poisoned almost 2,000 tons of fish
this month.  
 “We’ve taken measure to prevent any potential safety
hazards at other plants,” spokesman  Zhao Jugang  said today by
phone, “Our gold production is normal at present.”  
 Zijin was forced to  shut  its copper plant at Zijinshan in
Fujian province last week after waste poisoned enough fish to
feed 72,000 residents for a year. The Guangdong government
stopped all fishing in the Ting River until at least the end of
July amid concerns the spill is widening to a second province.  
 The Guangdong and Fujian provincial governments are
studying compensation demands for the fishing losses, Zhao said.
Zijin hasn’t been told of a penalty or compensation it would
have to pay yet, he said.  
 Zijin  gained as much as 4.4 percent to HK$5.02 today in
Hong Kong, trading at HK$5.00 at 11:23 a.m. local time. The
benchmark Hang Seng Index rose 1 percent.  
 The Guangdong government bought about 450,000 kilograms
(992,000 pounds) of fish from locals and put them into the
Qingxi reservoir as a precaution after finding elevated copper
content in the river, it said in a statement this week.  
 Copper content in the lower reaches of the Ting River in
Guangdong is now meeting national environmental standards, Zijin
said in a statement yesterday on its website.  
 Compensation for fisheries in Fujian may reach about 5
million yuan ($738,000), Zhao said July 13. Zhao today didn’t
give updated figures on possible compensation demands.  
 -- Helen Yuan , with assistance from Diao Ying in Beijing. Editors:
 Tan Hwee Ann ,  Keith Gosman .  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        