-- Boeing Future Combat Program Cut 23 Percent by U.S. House Panel
-- Tony Capaccio
-- 2007-05-09T19:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-05-09/boeing-future-combat-program-cut-23-percent-by-u-s-house-panel.html

          
          
             The U.S. Army's $3.7 billion budget
request for its largest weapons program -- a family of armored
vehicles connected by drones and radio networks -- was cut about
23 percent today by the  House Armed Services Committee .  
 The panel endorsed a cut made last week by a subcommittee in
the Future Combat Systems program, which is jointly managed by
Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA)  and San Diego-based  Science Applications
International Corp. (SAI)  The committee rejected an amendment to
restore $200 million.  
 The $867 million cut is the largest since the program was
proposed in 2003. Cuts in the last two years have averaged about
10 percent. This latest cut could be overturned by the Senate
Armed Services Committee when it completes its version of the
fiscal 2008 spending measure later this month.  
 At $161 billion, the Future Combat Systems is the Pentagon's
second-most costly program, behind the $276 billion Joint Strike
Fighter.  
 Congress has been skeptical that the complex program can be
achieved without major cost growth and schedule delays. Since
fiscal 2003, the program's research and development phase has
slipped five years and the final fielding date by seven years.  
 Representative Neil Abercrombie of  Hawaii , who chairs the
subcommittee and proposed the cut, said the money was transferred
to more pressing needs such as providing armor for vehicles in
 Iraq  and improving the National Guard.  
 `Immediate Needs'  
 ``It's not like we took the money away and hid it or put it
against the national debt,'' Abercrombie, a Democrat, said in an
interview. ``We reallocated it to the immediate needs of the
fighting men and women, particularly the Army.''  
 ``We are not against the system and we made sure there was
sufficient funding to spin out the first practical production'' -
- small unmanned drones and sensors for on-ground reconnaissance
-- that could be fielded to U.S. troops in Iraq next year,
Abercrombie said.  
 The Army's fiscal 2008 and 2009 budgets continue to fund the
program's advanced development phase, with some production
funding also in fiscal 2009.  
 In a separate action, the full committee for the second time
in two years has rejected a Defense Department request to
terminate a backup engine made by  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/)  for the  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  Joint Strike
Fighter program.  
 The committee also voted to kill the  Textron Inc. (TXT)  Armed
Reconnaissance Helicopter, a $3.6 billion program.  
 Backup Engine  
 GE, the world's largest aircraft-engine maker, and Rolls-Royce, the second-largest, were awarded a $2.4 billion engine-development contract in August 2005 that included producing 14
test models, with the first production model expected in 2012.
Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE was responsible for 60 percent of
the contract; London-based Rolls-Royce Group had 40 percent.  
 The development program will cost $1.8 billion through 2011,
and Pentagon officials are satisfied with the current  Pratt &
Whitney  engine, Pentagon Comptroller Tina Jonas said in February.
Pratt & Whitney is a unit of Hartford, Connecticut-based  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX)   
 The committee recommended that the armed reconnaissance
helicopter program be reopened to competition. In voting to kill
Textron's stewardship, the committee cited a long list of
problems.  
 The program's development phase has grown to more than $300
million from $210 million, and the per-aircraft price has nearly
doubled -- to almost $10 million from $5.2 million, according to
Army officials. The helicopter is being made at Textron's Bell
Helicopter unit in Forth Worth,  Texas .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Forsythe at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        