-- Sulzer First-Quarter Orders Rise 4.5% on Oil Industry
-- Antonio Ligi
-- 2008-04-17T15:46:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-04-17/sulzer-first-quarter-orders-rise-4-5-on-oil-industry-update3-.html

          
          
             Sulzer AG (SUN) , the world's second-biggest maker of pumps, said first-quarter orders rose 4.5
percent as higher crude prices boosted investment in new
equipment by energy companies in  emerging markets .  
 Orders rose to 1.13 billion Swiss francs ($1.13 billion)
from 1.09 billion francs a year earlier, the Winterthur,
Switzerland-based company said today in a statement. Analysts
predicted 1.1 billion francs of new work, according to the
median of six estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  
 ``The positive surprise is the pumps business. Oil and gas
is still driving,'' said Zurich-based Vontobel analyst Fabian Haecki, who has a ``hold'' rating on the stock. ``Overall this
is a solid result.''  
 Soaring crude oil prices have lifted profit for producers
and spurred investment in exploration and drilling. The oil-and-gas industry accounts for about 50 percent of  revenue  at Sulzer,
which makes multiphase pumps built to withstand a broad range of
pressures and temperatures caused by  oil wells . Orders climbed
19 percent at the pumps division, Sulzer's biggest.  
 ``Most of the key markets are expected to remain in good
condition, driven by the developments in emerging markets,'' the
company said. Currency moves will continue to have a significant
effect on results, it said.  
 Crude oil for May delivery increased to $115.21 a barrel
in after-hours electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest since futures began trading in 1983. The
price has risen 20 percent this year and was at $114.82 a barrel
as of 9:17 a.m. local time in Zurich.  
 Currency Challenge  
 Orders adjusted for currency effects rose 11 percent. The
Swiss franc gained 14 percent against the  U.S. dollar  in the
first quarter and is now trading near parity.  
 Sulzer, whose clients include Exxon Mobil Corp. and BP Plc,
gained as much as 3.7 percent to 127 francs in Zurich trading
and closed up 1.4 percent at 123.9 francs, giving the company a
market value of 4.5 billion francs.  
 The Swiss company, founded in 1834, also makes engine
coatings for Volkswagen AG and other carmakers as well as parts
for  jet engines . Flowserve Corp., based in Irving,  Texas , is the
world's biggest manufacturer of pumps.  
 Orders fell 16 percent at the Chemtech division, which
makes separation and mixing equipment for the petrochemicals,
chemicals, oil and plastic industries. In the first quarter of
last year the company had benefited from a large order for a
plant project in Qatar. Excluding this project, the order intake
increased, Sulzer said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Antonio Ligi in Zurich at 
 alig@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        