-- `Business Death Penalty' for Hiring Illegal Aliens Unites Obama, Companies
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-12-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/-business-death-penalty-immigrant-case-unites-obama-companies.html
In 2007, Arizona enacted a law
containing what then-Governor  Janet Napolitano  called the
“business death penalty,” a provision threatening companies
that hired illegal aliens with revocation of their corporate
charters.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s challenge to the law is now
before the  U.S. Supreme Court , which hears arguments today. With
states and cities seeking to crack down on illegal border
crossing, a ruling upholding the measure would spur enactment of
similar laws elsewhere, advocates on both sides say.  “Once the principles are in place, the floodgates will
open around the country,” said Michael Hethmon, a lawyer with
the Washington-based Immigration Reform Law Institute, which
supports the Arizona law.  The case also may provide a hint as to the court’s approach
to other state immigration measures, including a separate
Arizona statute that gives local police a greater role in
arresting illegal immigrants. President  Barack Obama ’s
administration, which backs the Chamber of Commerce in the case,
is  urging  the court to declare immigration policy to be a matter
almost exclusively for the federal government, not the states.  “The court hasn’t ruled broadly on the appropriate role of
the states in immigration enforcement in more than 30 years,”
said  Peter Spiro , a law professor at Temple University who
specializes in immigration law. “This could be the vehicle for
tipping its hand one way or the other on the question.”  E-Verify System  The court also will consider an issue that  Carter Phillips ,
the Chamber of Commerce’s attorney in the case, says may be of
even greater importance to big corporations. It will decide
whether Arizona can require employers to participate in E-
Verify, a system designed to allow confirmation of worker
eligibility for employment through federal databases. The system
is voluntary under U.S. law.  Napolitano, now Obama’s homeland security secretary, signed
the Arizona measure into law. A San Francisco-based federal
appeals court upheld both aspects of the statute, which is also
being challenged by civil rights groups and a labor union.  The law, which took effect in 2008, makes the hiring of
illegal aliens a state offense, in addition to a federal one,
and subjects violators to penalties including the revocation of
their charter.  The challengers say the employer-sanctions provision runs
afoul of a 1986 federal statute that bars states and cities from
penalizing employers for hiring illegal aliens except through
“licensing and similar laws.” A central question in the case
is whether that exception is broad enough to let a state revoke
the charter of a company that hires illegal workers.  National Policy  The opponents also say the employer-sanctions provision
undermines Congress’s intent to have a national policy govern
immigrant employment.  “It’s an enormous burden on the employers because you now
have a completely separate parallel set of regulations out
there,” Phillips said. “It’s pretty clear Congress didn’t
intend that.”  Arizona Attorney General  Terry Goddard  is defending the
law, saying the sanctions provision doesn’t create any
obligations that aren’t already imposed by the federal ban on
employment of illegal aliens. Federal law lays out both civil
and criminal sanctions that employers may face for violations.  “Permitting states to take actions against licensees who
are knowingly employing unauthorized aliens supports the
congressional interest in vigorous enforcement,” Goddard argued
in  court papers .  So far, Arizona officials have filed only three enforcement
actions against employers, all in Maricopa County, which
includes Phoenix and Scottsdale.  State Laws  Only Arizona and Hawaii allow revocation of a business
license to punish companies for hiring illegal aliens. Eight
other states and two cities impose lesser sanctions, according
to a  brief  filed in support of the Chamber of Commerce by 17
other business trade groups.  One question for the court is what Congress’s intent was
when it enacted the 1986 law.  Sri Srinivasan , a Washington
lawyer with O’Melveny & Myers who represents the business
groups, says Congress had multiple goals in mind: preventing the
employment of illegal aliens while minimizing the burdens on
employers and avoiding discrimination against job applicants.  “Congress sought to balance a number of considerations in
its carefully calibrated employer-sanctions provisions,”
Srinivasan said.  Hethmon, the lawyer whose  group  supports the law, said
cracking down on the hiring of illegal immigrants was by far
Congress’s top priority.  “They wanted to stop illegal immigration across the border
by removing the magnet,” he said.  Central Issue  With E-Verify, the central issue is whether Congress’s
decision to make the program voluntary means that states can’t
make it mandatory.  The Chamber of Commerce says Congress sought to minimize
the burdens on businesses until it determined whether the system
was workable. “It is not for Arizona or any other state to
disregard Congress’s judgment,” the trade group argued in court
papers.  Goddard argued that the state law “helps to advance the
federal government’s interest in ensuring a lawful workforce and
developing an effective employee-verification program.”  One lurking question in the case is how reliable E-Verify
is. The system produced inaccuracies in an estimated 4.1 percent
of cases, primarily because of an inability to detect
unauthorized workers using a false identity, according to a
December 2009  report  submitted to the Department of Homeland
Security.  In his brief, Phillips called the system “error prone.”
That puts him at odds with his ally in the case, the Obama
administration, which hailed “E-Verify’s successful track
record, which is borne out by findings documenting the system’s
accuracy and participants’ satisfaction.”  The case, which the court will resolve by early July, is
Chamber of Commerce v. Whiting, 09-115.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 