-- ’Heights’ Playwright, Vet Cup Maker Receive $50,000 USA Grants
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2010-12-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/-heights-playwright-war-vet-ceramics-maker-receive-50-000-usa-grants.html
A Tony Award-winning playwright, the
designer of the New York Metropolitan Transit Authority’s
MetroCard vending machine touchscreen and a Gulf War veteran-
turned-ceramicist were among the 52 creators chosen to receive
the  United States Artists  fellowships.  The $50,000 no-strings-attached grants, announced Tuesday
night at a ceremony at  Jazz at Lincoln Center ’s Allen Room in
Manhattan, went to a diverse group of artists ranging in age
from 32 to 71, and representing 18 states and Puerto Rico.  The winners include  Quiara Alegria Hudes , who wrote “In
the Heights”; New York-based classical and jazz pianist  Uri
Caine ; conceptual artist  Glenn Ligon , whose work explores themes
of race and identity; and graphic designer  David Reinfurt  for
his transit touchscreen.  USA Artists was set up in 2005 with $22 million in seed
money from supporters, including the Ford,  Rockefeller ,
Prudential and  Rasmuson  foundations. The Los Angeles-based group
provides funds for artists who struggle to maintain a steady
income.  Since the recession began in December 2007, financial
support for the arts has declined as corporate, foundation and
individual donations dried up.  “The grants are appreciated now more than ever,”
Katharine DeShaw, USA’s executive director, said in a phone
interview. “We’re seeing a little bit more need for paying
their daily living expenses.”  Capital Campaign  As it begins its fifth year, USA Artists said it’s
launching a $50 million endowment and capital campaign for the
grant program. So far, the Ford, Rockefeller, Rasmuson and the
Omaha-based Todd and Betiana Simon foundations have led the
effort with a total of $14 million in gifts.  After being nominated anonymously by a group of arts
leaders, critics and scholars, the artist is then encouraged to
make a formal application for the grant.  USA Artists also announced yesterday the official launch of
 USA Projects , a “micro-philanthropy” program that lets the
public donate money online directly to artists who have won
national awards. Since its soft launch in May, more than 75
artists have received pledges totaling $500,000 in gifts and
matching funds.  “It’s very tough for artists,” DeShaw said. “They stand
at the end of a very long line traditionally, and with this
program they get their own line.”  Hand Grenades  Other winners announced last night include ceramicist  W.A.
Ehren Tool , a former U.S. Marine and Gulf War veteran who
invokes bomblets and  hand grenades  in his work; political poet
and activist  Martin Espada ; Idaho-based choreographer  Trey
McIntyre ; architect Teddy Cruz, who makes functional and
colorful low-income housing; and documentary filmmaker  Laura
Poitras , an Academy Award nominee for her 2006 film about the
U.S. occupation of Iraq, “My Country, My Country.”  For a complete list of winners, click on
 http://www.unitedstatesartists.org .  To contact the writer on this story:
 Patrick Cole  in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 