-- India Crime Bureau Raids Homes of Former Minister as Telecom Probe Widens
-- B y   S u b r a m a n i a m   S h a r m a   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2010-12-08T12:35:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/-incriminating-documents-found-as-india-deepens-probe-in-telecom-awards.html
Indian investigators said they found
“incriminating” documents as they searched the homes of former
telecommunications minister  Andimuthu Raja  and other officials
in a deepening probe into a sale of airwave licenses.  The  Central Bureau of Investigation  raided 14 locations
including residences of Raja in New Delhi and his home state of
Tamil Nadu. It also combed premises of his former personal
secretary, three other ex-officials in the telecommunications
department and a managing director of a Chennai-based export
company, the agency said in an e-mailed statement today. The
searches are still underway, it said. Raja couldn’t immediately
be reached on his mobile phone.  Raja resigned from Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s cabinet
on Nov. 14, two days before India’s chief auditor said in a
report that a 2008 sale of airwaves at below-market prices may
have cost the state exchequer as much as $31 billion.  Telenor
ASA  and Emirates Telecommunications Corp. were among operators
that purchased stakes in Indian companies the auditor said
weren’t qualified for the licenses.  “Once the investigations are completed, we will have more
certainty on what’s going to happen in the telecom sector,”
said  Kunal Bajaj , who heads Analysys Mason India Pvt., a
telecommunications strategy consultant, in New Delhi. “We’ll
know what’s legal and what isn’t.”  Parliament Stalled  India’s parliament has been stalled for close to a month as
opposition members demand a cross-party probe into the spectrum
allocation. Raja is a member of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam
party, a key member of Singh’s ruling coalition.  The government sold wireless airwaves in 2008 for 123.9
billion rupees ($2.7 billion), though they were worth as much as
1.5 trillion rupees, the  Comptroller and Auditor General of
India  said in its report. Raja has denied any wrongdoing.  The  Supreme Court , which is hearing public interest
petitions on the issue, asked the government to form a special
court because of the magnitude of the alleged offence. The
nation’s most senior judges also want probes to be extended back
to 2001 when a policy of first-come-first-served was adopted for
spectrum allocation.  The government last month said it will ask companies that
won some of the permits to respond within two months to an audit
that found they fraudulently bought the licenses in 2008 by
suppressing facts and submitted fictitious documents. The
Telecom Regulatory Authority of India said last month that it
recommended that 38 licenses awarded in January 2008 be canceled
and 31 be scrutinized for not meeting obligations.  Loan Probe  The Supreme Court earlier this month criticized Raja for
ignoring advice from the law ministry and Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  over the sale. Singh’s office Nov. 20 filed an
affidavit with the court rejecting allegations he had put off
bringing charges against Raja.  The CBI will complete its probe by March 31, its legal
counsel K.K. Venugopal told the Supreme Court on Nov. 22.  The agency, meanwhile, is also investigating 16 billion
rupees of loans extended by Life Insurance Corp. of India and
 LIC Housing Finance Ltd. , a finance ministry official said Nov.
27, declining to be identified. The CBI arrested  Ramachandran R. Nair , chief executive officer of LIC Housing Finance, and seven
other bank and brokerage officials last month as part of the
probe.  Uflex Ltd., a New Delhi-based maker of packaging material,
yesterday said a special court convicted Chairman  Ashok Chaturvedi  in a land allotment probe by the CBI.  Pradeep Tyle ,
chief executive officer didn’t respond to calls on his mobile
phone today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Subramaniam Sharma  in New Delhi at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net ;
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Hari Govind at   hgovind@bloomberg.net  