-- `Twilight Zone' Foreclosure Law Firm Draws Fine, Suits in New York Courts
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h   a n d   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 2010-12-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/-twilight-zone-foreclosure-law-firm-in-n-y-draws-fine-suits.html
Steven J. Baum ’s New York foreclosure
law firm has attracted lawsuits and fines for its actions during
the  housing crisis , with one judge likening its conduct to 
something out of the “Twilight Zone.”  As recently as last month,  Baum’s firm , which one lawyer
for homeowners said processes about half the  foreclosures  in New
York state, was ordered to pay $14,532.50 in legal fees and
costs and a $5,000 fine by Nassau County District Court Judge
Scott Fairgrieve in Hempstead, New York.  The judge said that when Paul Raia refused to vacate a
Garden City co-op after foreclosure, Baum’s firm filed an
eviction petition that misidentified the lender.  “Falsities were contained in five paragraphs out of only
ten paragraphs in the entire petition,” Fairgrieve wrote in his
Nov. 23 decision.  All 50 U.S. state attorneys general are investigating
whether banks, loan servicers and law firms properly prepared
documents to justify hundreds of thousands of foreclosures. The
probe came after  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Ally Financial Inc. ’s
GMAC mortgage unit said they would stop repossessions in 23
states where courts supervise home seizures and Bank of  America
Corp.  froze foreclosures nationwide.  Steven J. Baum PC, located in Amherst, New York, just north
of Buffalo, has been accused of overcharging, filing false
documents and representing parties on both sides of a mortgage
transfer. Baum runs the firm his father founded in 1972,
according to a fact-sheet provided by Earl V. Wells III, his
spokesman.  Syracuse Grad  Baum is a graduate of  Syracuse University , got his law
degree from the State University of New York at Buffalo and was
admitted to practice law in 1987, according to  Martindale.com , a
legal directory. Baum answered some questions via e-mails.  “Consumer activists and attorneys representing homeowners
have their own agenda in this process, including degrading the
legal work we conduct on behalf of our clients by using terms
like ‘foreclosure mill’ which I find personally and
professionally insulting,” he wrote.  At a continuing-education training session a couple of
years ago, “Steven Baum himself said they did 49 percent of
foreclosures” in the state, Rebecca Case-Grammatico, staff
attorney at Rochester, New York-based Empire Justice Center,
which represents poor people in foreclosures, said in a phone
interview. A complaint in one lawsuit against Baum’s firm says
it is “believed to be the largest foreclosure mill in the State
of New York.”  Baum declined to comment on the size of his business.  Pillar Processing  A company that processes foreclosure documents shares an
address with his law firm. That company, Pillar Processing LLC,
is owned by Manhattan private-equity firm Tailwind Capital LLC,
according to its  website . Brooke Gordon, spokeswoman for
Tailwind Capital, declined to comment.  “He’s opposing counsel for us on a huge percentage of our
cases,” Meghan Faux, project  director  of the Foreclosure
Prevention Project at South Brooklyn Legal Services, who
represents homeowners in predatory-lending cases, said in a
phone interview.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Arthur M. Schack in
Brooklyn called the firm’s explanations in one case “so
incredible, outrageous, ludicrous and disingenuous that they
should have been authored by the late Rod Serling.”  Schack threw out the case in part because he said the
assignment of the loan had been done improperly. The assignment
was made by a Baum lawyer on behalf of Mortgage Electronic
Registration Systems Inc. as the nominee for the mortgage bank,
according to the judge’s opinion. The same day, the Baum firm
represented the buyer of the loan by filing the foreclosure
action, the judge said. Schack said it was a conflict for the
firm to represent both sides.  ‘Parallel Mortgage Universe’  “Steven J. Baum PC appears to be operating in a parallel
mortgage universe, unrelated to the real universe,” the judge
wrote in that May decision. “Next stop, the Twilight Zone,” he
said, quoting from Serling’s TV series about science fiction and
the supernatural.  Baum said that in several cases where Schack stated the
firm represented both sides in a mortgage transfer, “we have
supplied to the court relevant documentation indicating that no
conflict of interest existed.”  Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, based in Reston,
Virginia, was set up by the mortgage industry to allow banks to
assign and reassign home loans without having to record the
changes with county land-records offices.  Federal Case  Last month, Baum’s firm was accused in a lawsuit in federal
court in Central Islip on Long Island of charging homeowners
illegally for attending foreclosure-settlement conferences. In
August, the firm was named in a civil suit in federal court in
Brooklyn that said the firm’s foreclosure practices amount to
racketeering.  In the Nassau County case, the firm filed the petition on
behalf of  Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. , or Freddie Mac, to
get Raia out of the Garden City apartment. That action was
thrown out in July when the court ruled the assignment to
Freddie Mac wasn’t made properly. Fairgrieve then held a hearing
on whether the Baum firm should be punished.  In his decision, the judge said the law firm “is highly
versed in issues of standing as evidenced by the firm’s
abundance of litigation in this area.”  Wells said Baum plans to appeal. Brad German, a spokesman
for Freddie Mac, didn’t have an immediate comment.  U.S. Trustee  In January,  Diana Adams , the U.S. trustee monitoring
bankruptcy cases in Manhattan, reserved the right to seek
sanctions against Baum’s firm in the bankruptcy case of a Bronx
homeowner. The trustee accused Baum client JPMorgan of filing
documents “that appear to be either patently false or
misleading,” according to a court a filing recommending
sanctions against the bank.  Thomas Kelly, a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to comment.  In April, the U.S. trustee, the Justice Department’s
representative to protect creditor interests in U.S. bankruptcy
courts in New York, objected to  Citigroup Inc. ’s bid to
foreclose on the Manhattan apartment of Gilles and Jennifer
Michaud, according to a court filing.  The trustee said Elpiniki M. Bechakas, a Baum lawyer, in
her capacity as assistant secretary and vice president of
Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, assigned the mortgage
to a Citigroup unit before Baum lawyers filed the motion with
the bankruptcy court on behalf of the bank. That put the firm on
both sides of the mortgage transfer, Adams said.  Electronic Registration  Wells didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the
U.S. trustee’s accusations. Bechakas didn’t return a call. Jane
Limprecht, a spokeswoman for the U.S. trustee, and Mark Rodgers,
a spokesman for New York-based Citigroup, declined to comment.  Susan Chana Lask, a New York-based lawyer, on Aug. 17 sued
Baum and MERS on behalf of two homeowners in Brooklyn and Rock
Hill, New York, accusing them of racketeering by forcing false
foreclosures. Baum has called the claims “unfounded” and asked
the court to dismiss them. That motion is pending.  Karmela Lejarde, a spokeswoman for MERS, declined to
comment. MERS has also asked that the case be dismissed.  Lask accused Baum of filing “tens of thousands of
foreclosures” involving mortgages that weren’t properly
assigned and of overcharging on foreclosure fees.  “This case represents an aggressive and unfounded attempt
by two homeowners who have defaulted on their mortgages to block
their foreclosure by claiming that their failure to pay their
mortgage was brought about by a massive conspiracy,” Baum’s
lawyer,  Brett A. Scher  of Kaufman Dolowich Voluck & Gonzo LLP in
Woodbury, New York, wrote in the motion to dismiss.  Defamation Suit  Scher didn’t return a call seeking further comment. Baum,
who declined to comment on the racketeering suit, sued Lask last
month for defamation over comments she made, including in a
press release announcing her lawsuit, on a YouTube video and in
a Buffalo News article.  Lask and her firm “have repeatedly made false statements
which they have published, or caused to be published, on
websites and newspapers,” according to the complaint filed Nov.
18 in state court in Buffalo.  Lask said she hasn’t been “personally” served with the
defamation suit. “There’s absolutely no defamation. Everything
I said is based on fact,” she said.  Baum “makes about $200 million a year from the
foreclosures,” Lask alleged in the racketeering complaint. Baum
said in the e-mail that the figure is inaccurate.  On Nov. 8, Jacob Menashe of Great Neck, New York, filed a
suit in federal court in Brooklyn accusing Baum of illegally
charging homeowners for attending settlement conferences. The
case was assigned to a judge in Central Islip.  Settlement Conferences  “They passed a law about not charging for settlement
conferences and they charge for settlement conferences,”
Menashe’s lawyer, Randall S. Newman of Manhattan, said in a
phone interview.  “The statute relating to settlement conferences was amended
and we believe plaintiff’s counsel has misinterpreted its
application,” Baum said in the e-mail.  Both Menashe’s and Lask’s suits seek class-action status on
behalf of homeowners in the state with similar circumstances.  “What is important now is that all parties attempt to work
together to resolve issues amicably,” Baum said in an e-mail.
“The barrage of accusations and litigation does little to help
the underlying problems.”  Cases mentioned in this story include Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corp. v. Raia, SP 002253/10, District Court of Nassau
County, New York (Hempstead); Campbell v. Baum, 10-cv-3800, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn); Menashe
v. Steven J. Baum P.C., 10-cv-5155, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of New York (Central Islip); and Baum v. Lask, 2010-
012048, New York Supreme Court, Erie County (Buffalo).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at 
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net ;
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 