-- 7-Eleven to Buy 183 Exxon Mobil Properties to Expand in Florida
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2010-12-08T21:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/7-eleven-plans-to-acquire-183-exxon-mobil-properties-to-expand-in-florida.html
7-Eleven Inc., the world’s largest
convenience-store chain, will buy 183 Florida properties from
 Exxon Mobil Corp.  as it accelerates North American acquisitions.  The cash transaction comprises 169 stores in markets
including Orlando and Palm Beach, five parcels of land and
contracts to supply gasoline to nine service stations owned by
dealers, Sean Duffy, 7-Eleven’s vice president of mergers and
acquisitions, said today in a telephone interview. The companies
declined to disclose the purchase price.  Closely held 7-Eleven, the Dallas-based unit of Japan’s
 Seven & I Holdings Co. , is considering another nine
transactions, with the number of stores ranging from fewer than
10 to as many as 200, Duffy said. The U.S. retailer has added
about 750 stores since 2007 and will bring its total to almost
800 in Florida with the Exxon acquisition, he said.  “There’s a great opportunity in the industry now that goes
with our aggressive approach to mergers and acquisitions,”
Duffy, 45, said. “We have access to a lot of capital and
lending rates are extremely favorable now. Our debt is close to
being extinguished.”  Duffy declined to disclose 7-Eleven’s debt or potential
acquisition targets. A lack of credit to some small- and medium-
size companies is impeding their efforts to borrow and refinance
debt, forcing them to consider selling stores, he said.  Switching Signs, Displays  Exxon, based in Irving, Texas, and the largest U.S. oil
company, started divesting its domestic retail outlets in 2008
to focus on higher-profit businesses.  7-Eleven plans to spend $250,000 to $500,000 a store to
remodel the Exxon locations in Florida during the next two
years, Duffy said. Most will be switched to 7-Eleven signs and
interior displays, taking advantage of the company’s marketing
and distribution for its 610 Florida stores, he said. All will
keep selling Mobil gasoline and let customers use the ExxonMobil
credit card.  The convenience chain ended discussions to buy Casey’s
General Stores Inc. on Nov. 3 after failing to agree on terms.
7-Eleven offered $2.1 billion including net debt, or $43 a
share, for the Ankeny, Iowa-based company, which rejected a deal
with Alimentation Couche-Tard Inc., a Laval, Quebec-based
convenience-store chain, earlier this year.  With the Florida acquisition, 7-Eleven will operate,
franchise or license almost 8,500 stores in the U.S., Canada and
Mexico, said  Margaret Chabris , a company spokeswoman. It
operates about 39,500 stores in 16 countries, generating
worldwide revenue of $58.9 billion in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Sherman  in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Burritt  in Greensboro, North Carolina, at   cburritt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editor responsible for thi
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 