-- 
Rove Says Obama in Trouble, Economic Policy Has ‘Utterly Failed’

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-08-21T14:26:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/labor-contract-bargaining-for-firefighters-fails-in-u-s-senate.html
Karl Rove , the former top strategist
to Republican President George W. Bush, said Democratic
President  Barack Obama ’s economic policies have “utterly
failed.”  “Americans are fed with up with it,” Rove said today on
“Fox News Sunday.” Obama had a Democratic Congress for two-
thirds of the time he’s been in office and he still hasn’t met
goals for improving the U.S. unemployment rate, said Rove.  “The president has yet to lay out a plan,” said Rove.
“There is no plan.”  Republicans passed a budget and “a slew of job-creating
measures,” said Rove. Obama has not debuted a jobs or deficit-
reduction plan in the past nine months, he said.  Bill Burton , former White House deputy communications
director for Obama, said on the Fox program that the president
has seen 2.3 million jobs added to the economy.  Obama will lay out a plan for jobs and “Republicans can
work with him or fight to stop progress,” said Burton.  Burton also defended Obama’s vacation on  Martha’s Vineyard ,
Massachusetts, saying no one can fault him for taking the time
with his daughters before their school year begins and that
“most Americans don’t need to see a lot of bickering in
Washington” now.  Deep Trouble  “The president is in deep trouble” said Rove, referring
to Obama’s approval rating on the economy dropping to a low in
Gallup polls. “I don’t think Barack Obama is going to be able
to pull off Harry S. Truman.”  Recent public opinion polls have showed Obama’s job
approval rating below 40 percent, the lowest of his presidency.  Rove said Sarah Palin, former Alaska Governor, may get into
the presidential race.  “Next week, she has a robust schedule” that seems “pre-
presidential,” said Rove. He also said Representative  Paul Ryan , a Republican from Wisconsin is getting a lot of pressure
to seek the Republican presidential nomination, along with New
Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , and both will have to consider
that support in deciding whether to run.  Former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum said on Fox that
he has a good track record and would go after entitlement
reform.  “I’ve gotten things done,” said Santorum, 53, a
Republican candidate whose political career was derailed in 2006
when he lost a re-election bid. He entered the race for next
year’s Republican presidential nomination June 6.  “I think I’m the best candidate for this”, he said,
adding that he is “the one who can accomplish things.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in  Washington  at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 