-- Above-Average Hurricane Season Will Strike Next Year, Colorado State Says
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   C h a r l o t t e   P o r t e r
-- 2010-12-08T16:35:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/above-average-hurricane-season-will-strike-next-year-colorado-state-says.html
Colorado State University  researchers
predict an above-average storm season for the Atlantic in 2011,
forecasting at least 17 named storms and nine hurricanes, five
of them major.  The early extended-range forecast today from the team led
by  William Gray  and  Phil Klotzbach  also predicted more
hurricanes will make landfall in the U.S. next year. There is a
73 percent chance at least one of them will be a “major”
storm, with winds of 111 mph (179 kph) or higher, they said in
an e-mail.  The Atlantic hurricane season is closely watched because
the storms are a threat to oil and natural gas interests in the
Gulf of Mexico and agriculture in the Southern states. Florida
is the second-largest citrus producer behind Brazil, and the
Gulf accounts for 31 percent of U.S. oil output and 43 percent
of the country’s refining capacity.  This year, 19 storms received names, which happens when
winds hit 39 mph, and 12 of them became hurricanes with winds of
74 mph or more. An average season has 11 named storms, according
to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.  In their forecast as the season began in June, Gray and
Klotzbach called for 18 named storms and 10 hurricanes. Last
December, they predicted 16 named storms, with eight becoming
hurricanes.  U.S. ‘Lucky’  The 2010 hurricane season was the third-most active in
history. It ended eight days ago.  “The U.S. was extremely lucky in 2010 in that none of the
12 Atlantic basin hurricanes that formed crossed the U.S.
coastline,” Klotzbach said in the e-mail. “On average, about
one in four Atlantic basin hurricanes makes U.S. landfall, and
therefore we would expect to see more landfalling hurricanes in
2011.”  The  odds are near even  that a major hurricane will strike
the East Coast, including Florida, and the Gulf Coast between
the Florida Panhandle and Brownsville, Texas, CSU said.  This year’s storm activity was affected by a La Nina, or
cooling of the Pacific Ocean. The phenomenon cuts down on wind
shear in the Atlantic that can prevent storms from forming.  Pacific Temperatures  Gray said the CSU team can’t forecast yet whether the La
Nina will continue. However, he said it is unlikely that there
will be a return to the Pacific warming known as an El Nino,
which can hinder storm growth.  In 2008, when a La Nina faded and the Pacific returned to
normal, 16 named storms formed and the U.S. was struck by six
consecutive tropical systems, according to  U.S. National
Hurricane Center records .  Some forecasters believe that the La Nina may linger into
at least July or August. When a La Nina is active, hurricanes
tend to form farther to the east in the Atlantic, which can mean
they track away from the U.S. mainland, said Tom Downs, a
meteorologist with Weather 2000 Inc. in New York.  In 2010, the U.S. received only one direct strike, when
Tropical Storm Bonnie crossed southern Florida before
dissipating in the Gulf of Mexico. Canada, Mexico and Central
America all received direct hits from much more powerful storms
that killed hundreds of people and caused at least $1.6 billion
in damage.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 Bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
 Charlotte Porter  in New York at ’
 Cporter11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  