-- Madoff Suit Says Money-Lust Blinded HSBC to Fraud: Ann Woolner
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 2010-12-08T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/madoff-lawsuit-says-greed-blinded-hsbc-to-fraud-commentary-by-ann-woolner.html
A firm handling billions of dollars
of your clients’ money sometimes said it settled trades on
weekends, when markets were closed. For three years, it had the
wrong name of a fund on statements sent to clients. And its
principal insisted on being the sole custodian of the assets, in
violation of standard practices. What could it all mean?  Who cares? You’re making unbelievable money through this
firm, and so are your clients, so why look behind the curtain?
OK, the kind of returns this firm produces can’t be replicated
by anyone else using the same formula. The due diligence folks
say they are “baffled” by what they see and disturbed by what
they aren’t allowed to see.  Then there are reports from a major accounting firm warning
of possible “sham trades” and a very real potential for fraud.  These are signs that hinted -- no, screamed -- for years
that something wasn’t right at Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC.  And yet to London-based bank  HSBC  and affiliates, these
signals worked not as an alarm but as a come-hither, according
to a lawsuit filed this week.  Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme -- which ended with $65
billion of nonexistent investments in 4,900 accounts -- came
crashing down two years ago, costing investors $20 billion in
lost principal and sending him into the care of the federal
Bureau of Prisons for the rest of his life.  The story still has the power to amaze and to warn others
tempted to overlook the obvious. It did so again this week when
lawyers appointed to hunt  Madoff ’s assets filed their biggest
lawsuit to date. It seeks at least $8.9 billion from HSBC,
affiliates and related funds, managers and others on claims they
directed billions into funds that were obviously phony.  Cautionary Tale  “Because of their institutional avarice, what was already
a terrible crime was transformed into one of the largest thefts
in history,” according to the lawsuit.  In an e-mailed statement,  HSBC  called the allegations of
wrongdoing “unfounded” and pledged to “defend itself
vigorously against these claims.”  It will take a vigorous defense to refute these claims. For
financial firms, funds and managers, the lawsuit serves as a
cautionary tale, one that shouldn’t have to be told.  The complaint describes warning signals even a financial
newbie would have recognized, assuming he knows the meaning of
the word “sham.”  But instead of running in the opposite direction,  HSBC  and
its codefendants created, promoted, managed and supported an
international network of feeder funds. They poured billions into
Madoff’s Ponzi scheme, collecting hundreds of millions of
dollars or more in fees.  Suing JPMorgan  So say lawyers at  Baker Hostetler  working with  Irving Picard , the trustee who is liquidating Madoff’s business and
gathering assets to distribute to victims.  The HSBC case is the latest of the suits Picard has filed
against financial institutions. Last week it was New York-based
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  for $6.4 billion.  As Madoff’s primary banker for two decades, JPMorgan “was
at the very center of that fraud, and thoroughly complicit in
it,”  David J. Sheehan , counsel for Picard, said in a statement.  (I’d quote from the suit, except that it’s under seal,
thanks to JPMorgan.)  Last month the same lawyers for Picard sued Zurich-based
UBS AG for $2 billion. UBS and JPMorgan also say these cases are
bogus.  This week Union Bancaire Privee, a private Swiss bank based
in Geneva, sidestepped a suit when it agreed to pay as much as
$500 million to resolve the trustee’s claims.  These are cases  Picard  is right to pursue. It’s impossible
to imagine Madoff could have stolen so much from so many without
banks turning a blind eye.  Net Losers  And while they stand or fall on their own merits, these
cases may take some of the sting out of less popular litigation,
which tries to  recover  money from so-called “net winners.”  Those are small and large investors who, during the last
six years of the scheme, withdrew more money from Madoff funds
than they put in. Their profits came from some other sucker’s
losses and should go into the pot to help the net losers, Picard
claims. Investors who can show hardship can get out from under
these claims.  The owners of the New York Mets -- including the baseball
team’s chief executive,  Fred Wilpon  -- are among those Picard is
suing, as they allegedly pulled out almost $48 million in profit
on an investment of less than $522 million.  Whether the cases against Madoff investors are cruel or
worthy, it’s clear that the fraud would have hurt far fewer
people if Madoff hadn’t gotten the imprimatur of banks willing
to lend him their credibility and the help of feeder funds
fueling his scheme.  ‘Unchecked Control’  As early as 2001,  HSBC  found reasons to be skeptical that
Madoff was earning his astounding returns legitimately, the suit
says.  By giving him “unchecked control” over funds supposedly
in HSBC custody, the defendants played an essential “role in
allowing Madoff’s scheme to grow and function for as long as it
did,” according to the 165-page complaint.  The suit is packed with sarcasm to show just how obvious
was the rot in Madoff’s firm. It mentions “Madoff’s
supernatural trading ability” and the “magic of Madoff.”  That these international financial sophisticates could have
been taken in by sloppy sleight of hand tricks is hard to
imagine. If you believe that, you could have also believed in
what the lawsuit calls Madoff’s “logic-defying returns.”  ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  