-- Madoff U.K. Trustee Seeks $80 Million in Suit Against Ex-Directors, Family
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2010-12-08T20:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/madoff-u-k-liquidators-sue-ex-directors-for-80-million-in-london-court.html
The liquidators of Bernard Madoff
Securities International Ltd., the U.K. arm of the convicted con
man’s investment firm, sued the unit’s former directors in a
London court seeking at least $80 million.  The suit, filed today, alleges the U.K. office acted “as a
cover” for the New York firm’s fraud, the liquidators said in a
joint statement with  Irving Picard , the U.S. trustee of Madoff’s
business and the other plaintiff in the suit. The defendants
include Madoff’s brother, his two sons and five directors
including  Stephen Raven , the former chief executive officer of
the European unit, the liquidators said.  The directors breached their duties “by making fraudulent
payments to various Madoff-related entities, including payments
for luxury goods and services enjoyed by Bernard Madoff and the
Madoff family, including a yacht, a home in the south of France,
and an Aston Martin car,” the liquidators at Grant Thornton LLP
said in a statement.  Madoff, 72, pleaded guilty in March 2009 to using money
from new investors to pay off old ones in a Ponzi scheme,
sparking investigations and dozens of lawsuits. U.K. prosecutors
dropped a criminal probe into Madoff’s London unit in February
after they found “insufficient evidence” to charge anyone.  More than $910 million was transferred between the London
unit and Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC in New York
between from the time of the office’s founding in 1983 until
firm’s collapse in December 2008, according to the statement.  ‘Facade of Legitimacy’  Raven’s lawyer, Nicola Finnerty, declined to immediately
comment.  Charles Spada , a lawyer for Madoff’s brother, Peter,
declined to comment.  Martin Flumenbaum , a lawyer who represented
Madoff’s sons Andrew and Mark in earlier cases, didn’t
immediately respond to messages seeking comment.  “The London operation was a critical piece of the facade
of legitimacy that Madoff constructed to conceal BLMIS’s lack of
actual trading,” Picard said. “Madoff represented to his
customers that BLMIS conducted trades on the over-the-counter
market, after hours, and substantiated this misrepresentation by
periodically transferring tens of millions of dollars to MSIL.”  Sonja Kohn , the former chairman of Bank Medici AG in
Austria, was also sued for funneling more than $27 million to
the London unit “in sham transactions purported to be payments
for research and other services, but which were actually
kickbacks,” according to the statement.  Calls to a Kohn spokesman and a lawyer that previously
represented her weren’t immediately returned.  ‘Onus’ on Picard  “The onus will be on Madoff’s trustee to establish that
the directors closed their eyes to Madoff’s fraud,” said Steven
Philippsohn, the head of law firm PCB Litigation in London.
“The trustee will no doubt claim that the directors should have
spotted, but chose to ignore, some fundamental red flags in
their business activity.”  Madoff is serving 150 years in prison for the fraud that
destroyed his New York-based firm, which collapsed in December
2008. Picard hired Taylor Wessing LLP, a London-based firm, last
week to file lawsuits in the U.K. and British Commonwealth
countries recovering assets for Madoff creditors.  The case is Madoff Securities International Ltd. v.  Stephen Ernest John Raven , 10-1468, High Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench
Division (London).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 