-- Madoff Trustee Sues UBS for $555 Million, Tremont Ahead of Claim Deadline
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2010-12-08T08:41:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/madoff-trustee-sues-ubs-for-555-million-tremont-ahead-of-claim-deadline.html
UBS AG  and Tremont Group Holdings
Inc., the hedge-fund firm owned by Oppenheimer Acquisition
Corp., were sued by the trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s
investment firm over claims they profited from his fraud.  The claim for at least $555 million against UBS comes after
a $2 billion suit against the Zurich-based bank last month,
 Irving H. Picard , the lawyer appointed as trustee by a New York
bankruptcy court, said in a statement yesterday.  Picard said in a separate statement that Tremont, its
funds, affiliates and owners including Massachusetts Mutual Life
Insurance Co. ignored obvious warning signs of fraud to maximize
their own profits and self-interest. The statement didn’t say
how much he was seeking from Tremont.  Any money recovered will be returned to Madoff’s victims on
a pro rata basis, said Picard, who has so far recovered about
$2.5 billion for creditors of Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC. Picard faces a Dec. 11 deadline to file claims
against parties alleged to have profited from Madoff’s fraud.  Chris Cockerill , a Hong Kong-based spokesman for UBS, said
today by e-mail that the bank would take “all appropriate
steps” to show Picard’s latest allegations are “false and
unfounded.”  Mark Cybulski , a spokesman for MassMutual, couldn’t be
reached by telephone after working hours and didn’t respond to
an e-mail requesting comment.  Madoff, 72, is serving a 150-year sentence in a federal
prison in North Carolina after admitting he directed the biggest
Ponzi scheme in history.  At the time of his arrest, Madoff’s account statements
reflected 4,900 accounts with $65 billion in nonexistent
balances.  Including the HSBC suit, Picard is seeking a total of more
than $33 billion from Madoff and his family, former employees,
banks, feeder funds and investors alleged to have profited from
the fraud. That amount is more than the estimated $20 billion in
principal lost by Madoff investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Debra Mao  in Hong Kong 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  