-- AIG Aims for Share Sale in 2011 as U.S. Reduces Stake
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2010-12-08T17:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/aig-may-sell-shares-in-early-2011-as-insurer-seeks-independence.html
American International Group Inc. ,
the bailed-out insurer, aims to sell shares early next year as
the government winds down its stake in the company.  “We hope to be able to go to the market with a public
offering of AIG this spring, but we have work to do to make that
happen,”  Mark Herr , a spokesman for the New York-based insurer,
said in a statement today. “We are working as diligently as we
can to achieve this as quickly as possible, subject to market
conditions.”  The Treasury Department said in September it plans to
convert its $49 billion preferred stake in the insurer into
common shares and sell the securities. The company and Treasury
may hold an offering for the stock in the first half of next
year and raise more than $10 billion, Reuters reported, citing
unidentified people. The Wall Street Journal said the U.S. aims
to dispose of more than $15 billion in shares, with the insurer
selling at least $2 billion in new stock.  The U.S. is selling holdings in financial firms that
taxpayers bailed out at the depths of the financial crisis. The
Treasury this week divested its remaining stock in  Citigroup
Inc.  for $10.5 billion.  AIG slipped 94 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $43.01 at 12:47
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The insurer
has advanced about 43 percent this year. The U.S. will hold
about 92 percent of the common shares after the conversion.  Capital Markets  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  is seeking funds
from private investors to replace U.S. capital. The company sold
 $2 billion  of bonds on Nov. 30 in its first offering since the
2008 bailout.  “We are completely focused on finishing work on the plan to
restructure AIG and put it in a stronger position to begin repaying
taxpayers and return fully to the private sector,” said  Mark Paustenbach , a Treasury spokesman. “We are making good progress on
the recapitalization plan but it is premature to speculate about next
steps.”  AIG is focusing on global property-casualty coverage and
U.S. life insurance after selling more than $50 billion in
assets to help repay its bailout. The $182.3 billion rescue
includes a $60 billion Federal Reserve credit line, an
investment of as much as $69.8 billion from Treasury, and up to
$52.5 billion to buy mortgage-linked securities owned or backed
by AIG.  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. and Lincoln National
Corp., the other two U.S. insurers bailed out by the Treasury,
repaid their rescues this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  