-- AIG Agrees to Retire $21 Billion Fed Credit Line in Wind-Down of Bailout
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-12-09T02:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/aig-plans-to-repay-20-billion-fed-credit-line-in-deal-with-u-s-treasury.html
American International Group Inc. 
struck a deal to repay the Federal Reserve, the regulator that
first bailed out the insurer in 2008, and then focus on retiring
obligations to the U.S. Treasury Department.  “It represents a great step forward for AIG and for the
taxpayers to effectively narrow the number of counterparties
from two to one,” said  Clark Troy , senior analyst at Aite Group
in Chapel Hill, North Carolina. “We’ve had a number of steps in
a row in AIG’s recovery process go off without a hitch.”  AIG will use proceeds from the sales of two non-U.S. life
insurers to repay the line, on which it owed about  $21 billion 
as of last week, the company said yesterday. Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Benmosche  is focusing on global property-casualty
coverage and domestic life and retirement units to entice
private investors to replace the government capital that propped
up the firm after  losses  tied to subprime home loans.  Treasury, which invested about  $49 billion  in New York-
based AIG, plans to convert its preferred stake into 1.66
billion shares of common stock, or 92 percent of the total, by
March 15. The securities will then be sold to  private investors .  Treasury expects underwriters to be selected by early next
year for an offering of some of its stake, and will determine
how many shares to sell based on market conditions, according to
a person familiar with the plan. The person, who declined to be
identified because the plan is private, said it’s too early to
estimate how much stock would be sold in the first offering.  ‘Selling Into Strength’  The insurer had gained about 41 percent this year through
yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange to $42.22. The Treasury
investment will break even if shares are sold at about $29 each.  AIG may raise as much as $3 billion in a share sale, under
the deal. The insurer last month sold  $2 billion  of bonds in its
first offering since the bailout.  Improving results at operating units will attract private
capital, said  Robert Haines , an analyst at CreditSights Inc. in
New York. Earnings from insurance operations that AIG intends to
keep exceeded $4 billion in the six months ended Sept. 30.  “They’ll be selling into  strength , and where they’re
selling into strength they’ll be moving a lot of stock,” Haines
said. “There’s a lot of interest in AIG again.”  The U.S. is selling holdings in financial firms that
taxpayers bailed out at the depths of the credit crisis. The
Treasury this week divested its remaining stock in  Citigroup
Inc.  for $10.5 billion and recorded a profit of about $12
billion from that bank’s bailout, including share appreciation,
dividends and gains from other securities.  ‘Utter Collapse’  Treasury aims to raise at least $15 billion from an
offering of AIG shares in the first quarter of next year, the
Wall Street Journal said, citing unidentified people.  AIG’s Fed credit line, originally $85 billion, was created
in 2008 to avoid a failure of the company and what Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said would have been an
“utter collapse” of the economy. AIG said it will take a
charge of about $4.7 billion tied to the close of the line.  The bailout swelled to $182.3 billion as it was revised at
least four times to make more funds available, lower interest
payments and to give the company additional time to sell assets.
AIG  divested  a majority stake in AIA Group Ltd. in October for
$20.5 billion and sold American Life Insurance Co. last month to
MetLife Inc. for $16.2 billion.  Insuring Trustees  As part of a deal announced in September, AIG may draw
additional funds from the Treasury to help retire Fed
obligations. If necessary, AIG may repay taxpayers with proceeds
from sales of its Taiwan unit,  plane-leasing  business and two
Japan units it agreed to sell to  Prudential Financial Inc.   The trust of overseers appointed to manage the government
stake will be terminated as part of the reorganization, and AIG
agreed to provide $250 million in insurance coverage to protect
the trustees against any claims that they failed to uphold their
duties. Treasury will have control over equity offerings until
its stake falls below 33 percent.  The plan announced in September also includes a new $2
billion backstop from Treasury after credit raters said the
company may need access to emergency capital as it regains
independence.  Yesterday’s agreement is a “milestone in the government’s
long-stated efforts to exit our investments in private companies
as soon as practical while protecting taxpayers,” said  Tim Massad , acting assistant secretary for financial stability, in a
 statement .  “We believe taxpayers will recover every dollar
invested in AIG and stand a good chance of making a profit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  