-- Haiti International Airport Shut by Protests Over Presidential Elections
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2010-12-08T23:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/haiti-international-airport-shut-by-protests-over-presidential-elections.html
Haiti’s election results triggered
protests that shut down the country’s only international airport
after the U.S. expressed concern that the results were
“inconsistent” with those of foreign observers.  Michel Martelly , who finished in third place, vowed to
contest results on alleged vote rigging after ruling party
candidate Jude Celestin beat him by less than 1 percent in the
first vote since January’s earthquake that killed up to 300,000.
Celestin goes on to a Jan. 16 second-round vote against front-
runner and former first lady  Mirlande Manigat .  “The streets are going up in flames,” Damian Merlo,
campaign manager for Martelly, said in a phone interview from
the capital, Port-au-Prince. “Obviously, the election was
ridden with fraud.”  Rioters threw rocks and clashed with UN peacekeeping forces
in the capital and attacked the headquarters of the ruling
party, UN police spokesman Jean Francois Vizena said by phone.
UN police were trying to confirm reports of at least two deaths
in southern Haiti as protests spread nationwide, he said.  “It’s your right to protest, but do not attack public
buildings, businesses and private property,” President  Rene Preval  told protesters in a national radio address.  American Airlines cancelled its flights for today and
tomorrow into Port-au-Prince as roadblocks obstructed personnel
and passengers from reaching the airport, spokeswoman Martha
Pantin said in a phone interview.  Manigat received 31.37 percent of votes, Celestin, a
protege of Preval, received 22.48 percent and Haitian pop star
Martelly 21.84 percent, according to preliminary results
published by Radio Metropole.  The second round will be held next month even as the
country battles a spreading cholera epidemic that has killed
2,120 and hospitalized more than 44,000, according to Haiti’s
Health Ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Blake Schmidt  in Granada, Nicaragua at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  