-- Taiwan's Energy Demand Falls After Petrochemical Plant Maintenance, Fires
-- B y   Y u - h u a y   S u n
-- 2010-12-08T02:35:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/taiwan-s-energy-demand-falls-after-petrochemical-plant-maintenance-fires.html
Taiwan’s  energy demand  fell for the
first time in more than a year after the island’s biggest
petrochemical maker shut plants for routine maintenance and
unscheduled repairs.  Combined consumption of coal, petroleum, gas, thermal
energy and electricity declined 0.1 percent in October from a
year earlier to the equivalent of 10.1 million kiloliters of
oil, or about 2 million barrels a day, according to an e-mailed
report from the  Bureau of Energy  in Taipei today. Demand last
dropped in August last year.  Formosa Petrochemical Corp. , Taiwan’s biggest petrochemical
maker, shut its second-largest ethylene plant on Oct. 5 for
scheduled repairs. The company also halted a residual fuel
processing plant and its smallest ethylene unit after fires in
July. The chemical is a raw material for plastics and fabrics.  Consumption of petroleum products dropped 3.7 percent to
the equivalent of 4.11 million kiloliters of oil in October,
according to the energy bureau.  Power consumption rose 2.3 percent to 20.9 billion
kilowatt-hours, the energy bureau said. Industrial and energy
companies accounted for 49 percent of the demand.  Crude Distillation  The combined utilization rate at crude oil distillation
units operated by Formosa Petrochemical and  CPC Corp. , Taiwan’s
two refiners, climbed to 66 percent from 59 percent in
September, the energy bureau said. The units separate crude into
oil products and form the main part of a refinery.  Coal imports in the month rose 8.9 percent from a year
earlier to 5.5 million metric tons and liquefied natural gas
shipments declined 19 percent to 977 million cubic meters, or
740,000 tons, the energy bureau report showed.  LNG is natural gas that’s been chilled to liquid form,
reducing it to one-six-hundredth of its original volume for
transportation by ship to destinations not connected by
pipeline. On arrival, it’s turned back into gas for distribution
to power plants, factories and households.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yu-huay Sun  in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  