-- Altschuler Concedes New York House Seat to Democratic Incumbent Bishop
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2010-12-08T19:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/altschuler-concedes-new-york-house-seat-to-democrat-bishop.html
Republican  Randy Altschuler  conceded
defeat to four-term New York Democrat  Tim Bishop  in the race for
the nation’s last disputed U.S. House seat.  With 977 absentee ballots left to be counted out of more
than 194,000 votes cast in the 1st congressional district at the
eastern end of Long Island, Altschuler’s campaign said today.
Bishop held a 263-vote lead. Altschuler dropped his legal
challenges to the remaining uncounted absentee ballots.  “After consulting with my family and campaign staff, I am
ending my campaign and offering congratulations to Congressman
Tim Bishop on his victory,” Altschuler said in an e-mailed
statement. He said he would decline to pursue a hand recount of
all ballots cast. “Its cost will place an unnecessary burden on
the taxpayers of Suffolk County,” he said.  Bishop called the race “a real lesson in civics” in a
conference call with reporters today. “It truly makes the case
that every vote counts.”  He said his efforts to work with Republicans to help his
district won him the votes to “withstand a Category 5 hurricane
leveled at Democratic incumbents” this year.  House Breakdown  Bishop’s win will give the Democrats 193 seats in the 435-
seat House session that convenes in early January, while
Republicans will have 242. Republicans had a net gain of 63
seats in November’s midterm elections to take control of the
House.  New York’s House delegation will have 21 Democrats and
eight Republicans. Before the election, the breakdown was 26
Democrats and two Republicans, with one seat vacant.  Altschuler, a businessman and former Wall Street banker,
spent $4.2 million on his campaign through Nov. 22, including
$78,000 after Election Day, according to federal  records . He
gave or loaned his campaign at least $3.6 million of his own
money, the records show.  Bishop, a former college administrator,  spent  $2.5 million
on his campaign, including $63,000 after Election Day. He
neither gave nor loaned his own campaign any money.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter S. Green  in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  