-- Manhattan 2011 Office Rents May Rise 10% on Economic Growth, Colliers Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2010-12-08T20:51:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/manhattan-office-rents-may-rise-10-on-economic-growth-colliers-projects.html
Manhattan office rents may rise as
much as 10 percent next year as global growth accelerates, the
chief economist of Colliers International’s New York regional
office said.  “Cash balances and corporate liquidity are almost at an
all-time high,” Peter Kozel said today at a press briefing in
Manhattan. “That’s enormous potential energy just waiting to be
released. And New York City is enormously tied into the global
economy.”  Kozel and other executives from Colliers, a Seattle-based
property broker, said office availability will decline and rents
will rise as New York rebounds from the credit crisis that began
in 2008. With emerging markets growing, foreign firms are
increasingly looking at New York as a base from which to boost
their U.S. market share, Kozel said.  Rents  sought by landlords in midtown Manhattan are
projected to average $60.56 a square foot this quarter, up 1
percent from the previous three months and 2.1 percent from a
year earlier. That would be the highest since mid-2009, Colliers
reported. Office  availability  probably will be 12.5 percent,
down from 14.9 percent at the end of last year.  Colliers New York Chairman Robert Freedman said that, for
the first time since the credit meltdown, he is telling
potential tenants, “Do not miss this market.”  Most economists expect 2011 to be a continuation of this
year, with U.S. unemployment staying above 9 percent, labor
rolls rising about 1 percent and interest rates on 10-year
Treasury bills remaining at less than 3 percent, Kozel said.  Corporate Investment  Economists predict U.S. gross domestic product will expand
2.5 percent next year after 2.7 percent this year, according to
the median of 63 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The jobless
rate is likely to fall to 9.3 percent.  Corporate investment probably will rise, possibly fueled by
the cut in Social Security withholdings included in President
 Barack Obama ’s tax compromise with congressional Republicans,
Kozel said.  Increases in mergers, acquisitions, and initial and
secondary stock offerings probably will boost hiring in New
York’s financial industry, spurring demand for office space.
Law, accounting and other business-service firms would grow as
well, according to Colliers’ projections. New York employment is
likely to rise 2 percent to 2.5 percent, resulting in office
availability dropping about 2 percentage points, Kozel said.  SL Green  Colliers’ forecast is consistent with an analysis offered
on Dec. 6 by SL Green Realty Corp., New York’s biggest office
landlord, during its annual investor day.  SL Green Chief Executive Officer  Marc Holliday  said he
expects between 10,000 and 20,000 office-using jobs to be
created next year in New York City.  With the only significant additions to Manhattan’s 400
million-square-foot (37 million-square-meter) office inventory
coming from the 4.4 million square feet under construction at
the  World Trade Center  site, “the opportunity for growth is
much more substantial,” Holliday said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  