-- Apax Partners Is Said to Be in Exclusive Talks to Buy ISS for $8.5 Billion
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2010-12-08T18:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/apax-partners-is-said-to-be-in-exclusive-talks-to-buy-iss-for-8-5-billion.html
Apax Partners LLP is in exclusive
discussions to buy Danish cleaning service provider ISS Holding
A/S for about 6.4 billion euros ($8.5 billion), in what would be
this year’s biggest leveraged buyout, said two people with
knowledge of the talks.  The London-based private equity firm has been given about
two months to arrange financing for its offer, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the talks are private.  Goldman Sachs Capital Partners and EQT Partners AB, which
acquired ISS, the world’s largest provider of cleaning services,
for 21.9 billion kroner ($3.9 billion) in 2005, said in August
they were considering a sale of the company and hired bankers to
review their options. ISS Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Gravenhorst  said last month the two firms would prefer an
initial public offering.  “The strategic ownership review continues, and as we have
said, the outcome could be an IPO, but we don’t have anything
new to report at this point,” Kaspar Bach Habersaat, a
spokesman for Copenhagen-based ISS, said by telephone today.  ISS has an enterprise value of 39.4 billion kroner ($7
billion), according to an August estimate by Jyske Bank A/S.
Officials at EQT, Goldman Sachs and Apax declined to comment.
The talks were reported by the Daily Telegraph earlier today.  China Investment  Apax, which oversees an 11.2 billion-euro  buyout pool  it
raised in 2007, is in talks with backers including sovereign
wealth fund China Investment Corp. to provide additional equity
to invest alongside the fund, the people said.  The purchase would be the second-largest private equity-led
transaction since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
brought dealmaking almost to a halt in September 2008, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It would surpass the $5.1 billion
acquisition of Del Monte Foods Co. by a group of three private
equity firms including  KKR & Co.  last month.  Private equity firms are resuming spending after the global
financial crisis. Firms have led $227 billion of takeovers in
2010, more than double the amount in the same period last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Leveraged buyout firms like Apax pool money from investors
to take over companies, financing their purchases mostly with
debt, with the intention of selling them later for a profit.
Apax’s investments include stakes in TDC A/S, Denmark’s biggest
telephone company, and Hit Entertainment Ltd., a children’s
entertainment company that owns Thomas the Tank Engine and Bob
the Builder.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  