-- Apple Displaces Samsung on Korean Home Turf With IPhone
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2010-12-09T11:53:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/apple-displaces-samsung-on-home-turf-with-iphone-s-big-bang-in-korea.html
For more than a decade, Kim Jung Yeon
only bought phones from  Samsung Electronics Co.  and  LG
Electronics Inc. , passing on best sellers made by non-Korean
companies such as Motorola Inc.’s Razr. Her loyalty ended with
 Apple Inc. ’s iPhone.  “The iPhone has a cool design and I love the feel and grip
of the phone,” said the 37-year-old Web designer in Seoul, who
bought the device last year, and enjoys using applications about
food recipes. “I don’t see any reason why I should return to LG
or Samsung phones again if I buy another smartphone.”  Samsung and LG, the world’s two-largest handset makers
after  Nokia Oyj , can no longer count on home-field advantage as
they play catch up in the fastest-growing segment of the $163
billion global industry. A year after  Apple’s phone  debuted in
Korea,  LG  is reeling from record phone losses while Samsung this
week unveiled the Nexus S phone equipped with Google Inc.’s
latest  Android  operating system to win back customers.  “Korean companies are going to face a tough situation
overseas going forward, given how much share they are losing at
home,” said Han Eui Lim, a consultant at ROA Group Inc. in
Seoul. “Especially in the case of LG, it’s very concerning.”  Samsung and  LG shares  have both underperformed the
benchmark  Kospi Index  this year.  Samsung  has gained 15 percent
and LG has declined 5.8 percent in 2010, compared with the
index’s 18 percent gain. Apple shares have surged 52 percent,
helping it overtake  Microsoft Corp.  as the world’s most  valuable 
technology company.  Fewer Carriers  The iPhone, available in Korea only through  KT Corp.  as
opposed to all of the nation’s three wireless carriers for
Samsung and LG, has sold about 1.6 million units since it went
on sale in the country in November 2009, according to KT.  South Korea had about 4.52 million users of smartphones --
devices that can be used to surf the Web, and play games and
video -- at the end of September, with a quarter of those being
the iPhone, according to Nomura Holdings Inc. analyst  Stanley Yang .  The iPhone created a “mobile big bang” by changing the
way Koreans live and work, according to  Digieco , a research
division of KT, in a report last month.  Espoo, Finland-based Nokia is the  world’s largest  maker of
mobile phones, accounting for 117.5 million of the 417.1 million
phones sold worldwide in the third quarter, according to
research firm Gartner Inc. Nokia’s share of 28 percent was
followed by Samsung’s 17 percent and LG’s 6.6 percent. Apple was
fourth with 3.2 percent, Gartner said last month.  Phone Software  Among smartphones, handsets using Nokia’s Symbian software
held market share of 37 percent in the quarter, with Android
surging to 26 percent from 3.5 percent last year. Apple had 17
percent, according to Gartner.  Global handset revenue is forecast to be approximately $163
billion this year compared with $154 billion last year,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG estimates.  Samsung and LG, which are adopting  Google ’s Android, may
have fallen behind in the smartphone market because of their
external reliance on software, according to  Peter Yu , a Seoul-
based analyst at BNP Paribas SA.  “The iPhone and smartphones in general are mostly about
software content -- it’s more of a cultural product,” said Yu,
who has a “reduce”  rating  on LG. “When the iPhone was
introduced, the Korean companies were in a state of denial, they
underestimated the potential.”  Short Films  LG replaced its chief executive officer and head of the
handset-making division in October after the mobile-phone
business posted  record losses  for two consecutive quarters.
Standard & Poor’s cut LG’s debt-rating outlook to “negative”
on Nov. 11, citing the  “deteriorating”  competitiveness of the
main handset business.  “If consumers in Korea choose iPhones because of better
usability in the local market, overseas customers will do the
same,” said Kim Jee Hyun, who wrote “Mobile Innovation,” a
book about the changes in the Korean mobile-phone industry.  To attract Korean users, KT is sponsoring local film
directors including Chung Yoon Chul, to make movies with the
device’s high-definition video capability.  Park Chan Wook, who won the Grand Prix at the 2004 Cannes
Film Festival with “ Old Boy ,” is making a 25-minute film that
will hit wide-screen theaters this month.  The Korean companies aren’t giving up.  New Models  Samsung in June introduced the  Galaxy S , equipped with a 4-
inch touch-screen that’s larger than the  iPhone ’s 3.5-inch
display. The Korean company has sold 8 million units of the
phone worldwide already, including 1.8 million locally, and the
aim is to double the number next year, according to the company.  Samsung is looking to boost sales by developing models
using multiple operating systems, including its own Bada
software, and by selling its products through a wide range of
carriers, said  James Chung , a company spokesman.  “In the next two or three years, Samsung’s position in
smartphones will be quite similar to or better than Apple,”
said  Stan Jung , a Seoul-based analyst at Woori Investment &
Securities.  Seoul-based LG introduced the Optimus One in October and
sold more than 1 million units of the model as of mid-November,
with a goal to sell 10 million globally.  LG added 500 research-and-development staff this year for
developing handsets, Chief Financial Officer  David Jung  said in
October. The company plans to introduce a “premium” model next
year, he said.  Until then, Kim’s loyalty toward the iPhone may deepen with
applications that let her find recipes to cook dinner.  “The iPhone’s operating system offers so much variety in
terms of applications, it seems to me it will take a while for
Samsung and LG to catch up,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jun Yang  in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net 
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 