-- ArcelorMittal to Spin Off Inox Unit in First Quarter
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2010-12-08T10:15:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/arcelormittal-plans-to-spin-off-inox-unit-in-1q.html
ArcelorMittal , the world’s largest
steelmaker, will spin off its Inox stainless-steel unit in the
first quarter after the failure of efforts to consolidate an
industry beset by overcapacity and rising costs.  Shareholders will get one Inox stock for every 20 shares
they own, Luxembourg-based ArcelorMittal said in a statement
today. Inox will be listed in Paris, Amsterdam and Luxembourg.  The plan follows the collapse of negotiations between
steelmakers that aimed to counter the industry’s problems by
combining their stainless businesses. ArcelorMittal Chief
Executive Officer  Lakshmi Mittal  said in July “many, many
years” of talks between producers had led to nothing, while
rival ThyssenKrupp AG abandoned plans for consolidation last
year when it couldn’t get a favorable valuation.  ArcelorMittal will take a charge of about $800 million on
the deal. Following the spinoff, the stainless-steel business
will have about $1 billion of net financial debt, it said.  The unit, with plants in Belgium and Brazil, produced 1.59
million metric tons of steel in the first nine months, creating
sales of $4.18 billion, or 6.8 percent of ArcelorMittal’s total
revenue. The division reported a $219 million operating profit
in the period. Last year, it posted a $172 million operating
loss and lost $119 on every ton it produced.  ThyssenKrupp ’s stainless unit posted a 946 million euro
($1.2 billion) loss last year, the biggest among its divisions.  European producers are struggling with higher raw-material
costs as prices of the metal decline and demand wanes. The cost
of iron ore, a steelmaking ingredient, almost doubled in the
April quarter and rose more than 20 percent from June through
September. Finland’s Outokumpu Oyj forecast in October that
stainless-steel prices would drop in the fourth quarter.  China’s Taiyuan Iron & Steel Group Co. is the largest maker
of stainless steel by 2009 output, followed by Posco in South
Korea, Taiwan’s Yieh United Steel Corp. and ThyssenKrupp in
Germany, according to Chinese researcher Mysteel.com. Outokumpu
and Spain’s Acerinox SA also produce the metal in Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Biesheuvel  in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  