-- Arizona Sanctions for Illegal-Alien Hiring Supported at High Court Hearing
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-12-08T19:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/arizona-sanctions-for-illegal-alien-hiring-supported-at-high-court-hearing.html
U.S. Supreme Court  justices signaled
they are inclined to uphold an Arizona law that threatens
companies with the revocation of their corporate charters if
they hire illegal aliens.  Chief Justice  John Roberts  and Justice  Antonin Scalia  took
the lead in aiming a barrage of questions at a lawyer
challenging the measure in an hour-long hearing in Washington.
Roberts pointed to a federal statute that carves out a role for
states while Scalia focused on what he said was the U.S.
government’s failure to enforce its immigration laws.  “What Arizona says has occurred here is that the scheme in
place has not been enforced, and Arizona and other states are in
serious trouble, financially and for other reasons, because of
unrestrained immigration,” Scalia said.  A ruling upholding the measure would spur enactment of
similar laws elsewhere, advocates on both sides of the issue
say. The case also may provide a hint as to the court’s approach
to other state immigration measures, including a separate
Arizona statute that gives local police a greater role in
arresting illegal immigrants.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is challenging the law
alongside civil rights groups and a labor union. President
 Barack Obama ’s administration also says the law should be struck
down.  A San Francisco-based federal appeals court upheld the
measure, and opponents need the votes of five justices to
overturn that ruling. The task is complicated by the absence of
Justice  Elena Kagan , who isn’t taking part because she played a
role in the litigation as an Obama administration lawyer.  Kagan’s Absence  That means the challengers must win over at least two of
the court’s five Republican appointed justices. A 4-4 split
would leave the lower court ruling -- and the Arizona law --
intact without setting a nationwide precedent. The federal law
bars the hiring of illegal aliens and subjects employers to
fines for violations.  The challengers say the Arizona provision runs afoul of a
1986 federal statute that bars states and cities from penalizing
employers for hiring illegal aliens except through “licensing
and similar laws.”  Roberts said that provision created ample room for Arizona
to take away a company’s license to do business within the
state. “Congress swept pretty broadly,” he said. “It said not
just ‘licensing laws’ but ‘licensing and similar laws.’”  The Chamber of Commerce’s lawyer,  Carter Phillips , argued
that Congress has enacted a “comprehensive scheme” and wanted
to have “uniform” rules governing the hiring of immigrants
across the country. He said states could strip a company’s
license only after an employer had been found by federal
officials to have violated the immigration laws.  Alito and Kennedy  Justice  Samuel Alito , another Republican appointee,
questioned the logic behind that argument. He said some states
would likely impose stricter punishment than others, undermining
the uniformity that Phillips said was important.  “It’s not going to be the same,” Alito said.  Justice  Anthony Kennedy , a Republican appointee who is
often a swing vote, directed questions at both sides. He
suggested to Phillips that the Arizona sanction is a licensing
law, permitted under federal statute.  At the same time, he voiced puzzlement that Congress would
intentionally let states strip a company of its right to do
business but not impose a lesser sanction, such as a fine. “Why
would Congress want to do that?” Kennedy asked.  Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  made a similar point, saying it
would be an “anomaly” if states could only impose a more
severe punishment.  Governor Attends  Arizona Solicitor General Mary R. O’Grady told the justices
that states “traditionally have the authority to regulate the
conduct of employment” within their borders. Those watching her
argument in the packed courtroom included Arizona’s governor,
Republican  Jan Brewer .  So far, Arizona officials have filed only three enforcement
actions against employers, all in Maricopa County, which
includes Phoenix and Scottsdale.  The justices spent far less time focusing on a second
question in the case: whether Arizona can require employers to
participate in E-Verify, a system designed to allow confirmation
of worker eligibility for employment through federal databases.
The system is voluntary under U.S. law.  Kennedy suggested he was on Phillips’s side on that
question. “That’s almost a classic example of a state doing
something that is inconsistent with a federal requirement,” he
said.  The fifth Republican appointee, Justice  Clarence Thomas ,
asked no questions, in keeping with his usual practice.  The case, which the court will resolve by early July, is
Chamber of Commerce v. Whiting, 09-115.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 