-- North Korea May Have Fired Shells Into Disputed Coastal Waters, South Says
-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 2010-12-08T02:52:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/artillery-shells-fell-in-n-korea-waters-near-baengyeong-island-ytn-says.html
North Korea may have fired artillery
shells into its water near the disputed western border with
South Korea today, a government official in Seoul said.  None of the shells fell crossed the border into South
Korean waters and the government is examining the incident, an
official at President Lee Myung Bak’s office said by telephone
from Seoul, confirming reports by  Yonhap News  and YTN television
broadcaster. The official declined to be named because of
government policy.  North Korea fired artillery toward South Korea’s
Baengyeong island as part of what appears to be regular drills,
Yonhap reported, citing an official at the presidential office
in Seoul it didn’t identify.  Tensions have risen on the Korean peninsula since North
Korea shelled South Korea’s Yeonpyeong island, also near the
western sea border, on Nov. 23, killing four people. South
Korea’s military this week began live-firing exercises off its
coastline in more than 20 areas, including near another border
island off the west coast.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding Japan index  was trading 0.7
percent down at 11:39 a.m. in Seoul, having been 0.25 percent
lower before the Yonhap report. South Korea’s benchmark  Kospi 
also dropped into negative territory before paring some of its
losses to trade little changed at 1961.76.  The won extended losses after the reports, sliding 0.9
percent to 1,141 won against the dollar.  The Ministry of National Defense and the Joint Chiefs of
Staff declined to comment on the reports.  Admiral  Mike Mullen , the chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs
of Staff is in South Korea for talks with military officials.  North Korea doesn’t recognize the so-called Northern Limit
Line demarcated by the United Nations after its 1950-53 war with
South Korea. The North demands the border should be redrawn to
include Baengyeong, Yeonpyeong and three other islands part of
its territory.  The attack on Yeonpyeong was North Korea’s first shelling
of South Korean soil since the war and came after Kim Jong Il’s
regime was blamed for torpedoing the South Korean warship
Cheonan in March, killing 46 sailors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  