-- Aston Sells Itochu 15% of Australian Coal Project to Help Fund Development
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 2010-12-08T01:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/aston-sells-itochu-15-of-australian-coal-project-to-help-fund-development.html
Itochu Corp. , Japan’s fourth largest
trading company, agreed to buy a A$345 million ($339 million)
stake in  Aston Resources Ltd. ’s Maules Creel project in New
South Wales state to secure supplies.  Itochu signed an agreement to buy a 15 percent stake in the
project in the Gunnedah Basin, Aston said today in a statement.
The trading company may buy an additional stake of as much as 10
percent depending on exclusive talks slated to end on June 14,
Brisbane, Queensland-based Aston said. Itochu spokesman Yasuhiro
Terashita confirmed the deal.  Overseas companies have targeted coal producers in
Australia, the world’s biggest exporter of the fuel. Prices are
expected to gain until 2012, according to forecasts from
Deutsche Bank AG. Itochu will also gain exclusive marketing
rights for Maules Creek coal in Japan and have the right to buy
as much as 15 percent of the coal produced there, Aston said.  “Aston now has a range of options to fully fund the
development of the project,” Chief Executive Officer  Todd Hannigan  said in the statement. “Aston intends to leverage this
optionality to achieve a highly competitive funding package.”  The deal is subject to approval from Australia’s Foreign
Investment Review Board. Upon completion, Aston and Itochu will
form the Maules Creek joint venture.  Maules Creek has proved reserves of 151 million metric tons
of steelmaking and power station coal, according to a Nov. 22
presentation from Aston.  Itochu agreed to buy a 2.75 percent stake in Aston for A$33
million and obtained exclusive negotiation rights to acquire a
stake in the coal project, the company said Aug. 9.  The Japanese trader plans to source 15 million tons of coal
from mines it has stakes in by March 2016, almost double the 8
million tons in the last fiscal year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
 Masumi Suga  in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  