-- Wheat to Climb Through March as Australian Quality Drops, U.S. Group Says
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-12-09T05:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/australia-wheat-growers-may-abandon-crops-cbh-says-update1-.html
Wheat prices may extend gains and
trade at high levels through early 2011 as crop downgrades in
Australia, the fourth-largest shipper, add to supply concerns, a
 U.S. Wheat Associates  executive said.  “The market may need to go higher before it is all over
with,”  Vince Peterson , the group’s vice-president of overseas
operations, said in an interview in Perth. “We are going to be
in these higher ranges at least through the first quarter.”  Wheat prices surged to a two-year high in August after
Russia, the third-largest exporter last year, banned shipments
amid the country’s worst drought in half a century. Wet weather
is downgrading crops in Australia and delaying the harvest after
rainfall had earlier damaged crop quality in Germany and Canada.  “There were a lot of buyers that were waiting for the
southern hemisphere crop in Argentina and Australia to come in
to see if that would moderate prices a little bit, but the
situation has just done the opposite,” Peterson said. Increased
demand for wheat from the U.S., the largest shipper, will depend
on the Australian harvest, he said.  Wheat for March delivery on the Chicago Board of Trade rose
0.6 percent to $7.89 a bushel at 12:23 p.m. in Singapore after
rising to a four-month high of $8.11 on Dec. 7. The price has
gained 46 percent this year.  ‘Fragile’ Market  “Frankly it tells you how fragile this wheat market really
is,” Peterson said. “Five months ago we were going to be
giving it away, we thought we had so much.”  Dry weather for the U.S. winter-wheat crop may also help to
underpin prices into next year, while futures will be driven by
the outlook for spring plantings, he said. The U.S. Wheat
Associates is an Arlington, Virginia-based market development
organization.  The U.S. may not have the logistical capacity to meet
rising global demand, after rains cut the quality of the harvest
in Canada and Australia,  Abdolreza Abbassian , an economist at
the United Nations’ Food & Agriculture Organization, said in an
interview.  As much as 8 million metric tons of Australia’s wheat
harvest may be downgraded because of excessive rains, while
Canada’s output suffered from wet weather, pushing importers to
seek alternative supplies, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Pugh in Melbourne at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  