-- Tax-Cut Deal Alone Won't Add Enough Jobs: Mohamed El-Erian
-- B y   M o h a m e d   A .   E l - E r i a n
-- 2010-12-08T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/tax-cut-deal-alone-won-t-add-enough-jobs-commentary-by-mohamed-el-erian.html
President  Barack Obama  made a very
important policy  announcement  Monday while also noting that it
was “not perfect.” If approved by Congress, which is likely,
its impact will be felt both inside and outside the U.S. Still,
the key objective -- to generate durable jobs -- will be
possible only if this is part of a broader policy push.  After protracted negotiations that crossed party lines,
Obama explained his willingness to maintain for two years the
Bush tax cuts for all income brackets, extend federal
unemployment insurance, cut payroll taxes by 2 percentage points
for one year and reduce other taxes.  The accord is important in three ways. First, it shows that
America’s unemployment problem is finally at the top of
Washington’s legislative agenda. Second, the measures take some
pressure off the Federal Reserve, which has been pushed into
unusual activism and policy experimentation to combat
 unemployment  that remains stuck at almost 10 percent. Third, it
signals that political compromises are possible in a city that
has been characterized by massive polarization and
fragmentation.  While important, the package is a product of political
compromise that is far from perfect. Its limitations are seen in
both what the deal does -- and doesn’t -- include.  Though it promotes economic activity, the package doesn’t
do so in the most efficient manner. And it does little to
address growing income inequality in the U.S.  Tensions Rise  This week’s announcement will also heighten tensions within
each of the two political parties, with the Democrats being most
at risk as the tax-cut compromise will disappoint Obama’s core
supporters, who backed the president’s campaign promise of
refusing to extend the tax cuts to the nation’s top earners.  These imperfections, while notable, are inevitable outcomes
of difficult political compromises. More important, they pale in
significance when weighed against what the policy approach
doesn’t include so far.  The impact of the measures on economic growth will erode
over time if not accompanied by two additional policy efforts.
Officials must explain how further short-term deterioration in
America’s budget  deficit  will eventually give way to medium-term
fiscal responsibility. In addition, we need a more meaningful
push to improve America’s long-term competitiveness, which has
been compromised by our lagging behind in infrastructure
improvements and education, as well as resource misallocations.  Multiple Challenges  Without these two features, the compromise plan’s ability
to generate durable job growth will be challenged by national
and international forces.  U.S. economic growth will rise in the short-term but at the
cost of complicating economic management elsewhere in the world;
and, over time, the U.S. will face an even greater challenge in
dealing with its large and rising public debt.  Markets understand this, judging from their immediate
reactions to Obama’s announcement.  The stimulus-induced boost to growth was reflected in an
immediate rally in global equities and other risk assets, which
fizzled by the end of the trading day in the U.S. yesterday.
Commodity prices and the currencies of emerging countries
strengthened, and Treasury bonds sold off sharply, consistent
with a rise in medium-term fiscal concerns.  These market reactions serve as a reminder to the Obama
administration that this week’s important policy announcement is
just a step in a long and complicated journey. More will be
needed if the U.S. is to decisively address its most pressing
economic and social problem: persistently high under-employment
and unemployment.  ( Mohamed A. El-Erian  is Pimco’s chief executive officer and
co-chief investment officer, and the author of the book “When
Markets Collide.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Mohamed A. El-Erian at  Mohamed.El-Erian@pimco.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  