-- Banks in Europe Fail Market Tests for Stress With No Authority
-- B y   S i m o n   C l a r k   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2010-12-08T10:57:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/banks-in-europe-failing-market-tests-for-stress-with-no-central-authority.html
In the five months after the U.S.
published results of its 2009 bank stress tests, the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Financials Index  rose 25 percent. Five months after
the European Union released its version, the  Bloomberg Europe
Banks and Financial Services Index  is down 4 percent.  The failure of the EU tests to restore confidence in the
region’s banks was underscored last month when Ireland directed
its two biggest lenders, both of which passed the exams, to
raise additional capital. Since the results were disclosed on
July 23, the cost of insuring the senior debt of 110 European
banks against default rose 113 basis points, or 1.13 percentage
points, while credit-default swaps on 34 of the largest U.S.
banks are unchanged, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Now, amid a widening European debt crisis, regulators from
27 nations are searching for ways to improve the tests, which
will be repeated next year. That won’t be easy as long as
national leaders and central banks remain unwilling to cede bank
oversight to a central authority, said  Nicolas Veron , a senior
fellow at Bruegel, a Brussels-based economics research group.  “Financial nationalism prevented the tests from being
credible or really useful,” said Veron, who’s also a visiting
fellow at the Washington-based  Peterson Institute for
International Economics . “Nations view the bank tests as a
competitive game among countries and not as a way to ensure the
common good of European financial stability.”  Sovereign Default  To be more credible, the next bank tests need to take into
account the risk of sovereign default -- something not all
nations may be willing to do, according to  Peter Hahn , a former
 Citigroup Inc.  banker who lectures on finance at Cass Business
School in London. With European lenders holding 191 billion
euros ($255 billion) of Greek, Irish and Portuguese debt,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc., any restructuring of
national debt could force banks to raise more capital.  “The concept of European government default and the
potential inability to backstop banks are the key issues for the
markets,” Hahn said in an interview. “Today, very few people
have much confidence in their bank. Confidence is in the nation
that backs up your bank, not in your bank.”  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps
linked to the senior debt of 25 banks and insurers rose 4 basis
points to 151 basis points today, and a similar index linked to
subordinated debt climbed 12.5 basis points to 302.5 basis
points, a sign that perceptions of credit quality are worsening.  Swaps on UniCredit SpA, Italy’s biggest bank, rose 24 basis
points to 383, while those on  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
jumped 9 basis points to 190, according to data provider CMA.  Book Value  Investors have less confidence in European banks than in
their U.S. competitors. The price-to-book ratio of the 50
largest European banks is 0.76, compared with 0.97 for the top
50 U.S. banks, Bloomberg data show. That means the market value
of European lenders is on average only 76 percent of the value
of their assets, suggesting investors don’t believe banks’
assets are worth what they say they are. In 2007, the ratios for
European and U.S. banks were 2.15 and 2.14.  Using stress tests to calm markets is “an abuse of the
technique,” said  Simon Gleeson , a financial regulatory lawyer
at Clifford Chance LLP in London.  “Stress tests are a useful tool if they are used by people
who know how to interpret the data well,” Gleeson said.
“Properly conducted stress tests require a wide variety of
scenarios and possible outcomes with no simple answers.”  The European Central Bank -- the regional counterpart of
the U.S. Federal Reserve -- isn’t responsible for bank
supervision. Instead, the exams were coordinated by the
 Committee of European Banking Supervisors , a London-based forum
for national regulators that will be renamed the European
Banking Authority Jan. 1.  ‘Very Small Operation’  Even with its new name, the group won’t have enough power
to conduct a successful test next time, Hahn said. CEBS has
about 30 employees compared with about 3,300 at the  Financial
Services Authority , the U.K. regulator.  “It’s a very big task for a very small operation,” he
said. “It will depend on what banks provide and what their
countries’ politicians or regulators want them to provide.”  Franca Rosa Congiu, a spokeswoman for CEBS, declined to
comment.  European institutions have been forced to play a greater
role in solving the region’s financial crisis, with the EU and
the  International Monetary Fund  offering a combined 177 billion
euros to rescue Greece and Ireland this year. ECB President
 Jean-Claude Trichet , who signaled on Nov. 30 that investors are
underestimating policy makers’ determination to shore up the
stability of member nations, said in Paris last week that euro-
area governments need a “quasi” fiscal union.  Bank Resilience  While this year’s test required 91 of Europe’s largest
banks to provide regulators with the amount of sovereign debt on
their books, not all nations and banks interpreted the test’s
requests and published the data in the same way, Hahn said.  The exercise, intended to measure banks’ resilience in the
event of a shrinking economy and a drop in government bond
values, didn’t consider what would happen if a nation defaulted.
Instead, the scenarios included the downgrading of securitized
debt products by credit-rating companies, a 20 percent fall in
the value of European equities, declines in real estate prices
and 50 other macroeconomic parameters.  The tests were criticized by some for not being stringent
enough. Regulators said the banks needed only 3.5 billion euros
of new capital, about a 10th of the lowest analyst estimate.
Nomura Holdings Inc. said European banks would need to raise 30
billion euros, while Barclays Capital said they’d need as much
as 85 billion euros.  ‘Really Scary’  The tests were “really scary,”  Kenneth Rogoff , a Harvard
University economics professor and former chief economist at the
IMF, said in a Bloomberg Television interview on Dec. 6. “We
were told everybody is fine; there is nothing to worry about.
Now their credibility is less than ever.”  Seven lenders, including Germany’s  Hypo Real Estate Holding
AG , Agricultural Bank of Greece SA and five Spanish savings
banks failed the EU tests.  Bank of Ireland Plc , the nation’s largest lender, and
 Allied Irish Banks Plc , the second-biggest, both based in
Dublin, were deemed to have enough capital to pass the exams.
When Ireland agreed to accept a 67.5 billion-euro aid package on
Nov. 28, its central bank directed Allied Irish to raise 5.3
billion euros of additional capital. Bank of Ireland was told to
raise 2.2 billion euros.  U.S. Tests  “The tests didn’t trigger the recapitalizations of enough
banks to restore faith in the strength of the European financial
system,” Veron said. “In the EU, there is the element of
competition among member states. Any country that restructures
its banking system without the neighbors doing the same runs the
risk that parts of its banking industry would be acquired by the
neighbors, with no reciprocity.”  By contrast, the U.S. test results, published in May 2009,
determined that 10 banks, including  Bank of America Corp.  and
Citigroup, needed to raise a total of $74.6 billion in capital.
The lenders raised almost $100 billion by the end of that month.  The U.S. test was more successful in part because it didn’t
require international cooperation, said  J. Christopher Flowers ,
the former  Goldman Sachs  partner who leads New York-based
leveraged buyout firm J.C. Flowers & Co.  ‘Uniform Market’  “The U.S. is a more uniform market; it’s one nation,”
Flowers said in an interview. “The difference between
California and New York is not nearly as big as the difference
between Portugal and Austria.”  National bank governors and regulators are reluctant to
cede supervisory authority over banks to the ECB after nations
from Italy to Belgium gave up their power to set monetary policy
when they adopted the euro, Veron said. He has argued for the
creation of a temporary cross- border  organization to resolve
Europe’s current banking crisis.  When European leaders announced the creation of the
 European Banking Authority  in June 2009, they didn’t give it the
power to transfer funds among national banking systems if they
needed to recapitalize, Veron said.  A year later, the decision to publish the stress-test
results required a summit of national leaders after Spanish
government officials unexpectedly pledged to release data on
individual banks.  “Spain said it would publish its results, and that forced
other nations to follow suit,” Hahn said. “As soon as the
political side got involved, though, people had to question what
information would come out, as it became a political exercise
rather than a regulatory exercise.”  ‘More Ambitious’  With the EU providing bailouts to Greece and Ireland, it
needs to play a more forceful role in monitoring the banks that
finance those economies, according to  Barbara Matthews , managing
director of BCM International Regulatory Analytics LLC, a
Washington-based company that advises on financial regulation.  “Policy makers have to be far more ambitious in their
definitions of what constitutes a stress scenario based on what
we’re living through this year,” said Matthews, who is a former
U.S. Treasury attache to the EU. “Why even wait until 2011 to
do a new stress test? The banks are going through the stress
test as we speak.”  Carlos Egea , a London-based Morgan Stanley credit
strategist, said banks should give a transparent and uniform
breakdown of assets, including loans to companies and
individuals by geography.  “The key benchmark for stress-test success is for
investors to have enough transparency to be able to convincingly
back-test them on their own,” Egea said.  The development of pan-European financial supervisory
authorities isn’t complete, Egea said.  ‘Contagion Risks’  “The argument against a European banking supervisor was
that, given that the fiscal cost of rescuing banks was domestic,
it was fair that bank supervision should remain domestic too,”
Egea said. “Given the contagion risks and the use of the
European Financial Stability Facility funds to rescue the Irish
banks, it is apparent that the true cost of any bank failure
extends well beyond national borders and is a common and serious
problem for the EU and especially the euro area.”  Lenders’ liquidity should be examined in the next round of
stress tests in the wake of the EU’s fiscal crisis,  Olli Rehn ,
the region’s economic and monetary affairs commissioner said
yesterday.  “A liquidity assessment needs to be included in the future
stress tests,” Rehn told reporters in Brussels.  Greek Lenders  Greek banks had the biggest amount of Greek, Irish and
Portuguese debt, with holdings of 62 billion euros, followed by
German banks with 44 billion euros and French institutions with
19 billion euros, according to a Nov. 29 Goldman Sachs report.  Hypo Real Estate Bank, which failed its stress test, has
21.9 billion euros of such debt, the most among its European
peers, the report said.  National Bank of Greece SA , which passed
the test, has 19.8 billion euros, and Edinburgh-based RBS has
8.2 billion euros at risk.  While  Jonathan Faull , the European Commission’s director
general of financial services, said the next round of stress
tests will be “demanding,” CEBS, the group that is weighing
changes, may not include sovereign risk in its metrics.  It isn’t “clear that a repeat of the sovereign risk
sensitivity analysis will be necessary in 2011,” the
committee’s secretariat wrote in a Nov. 23 evaluation of the
stress test obtained by Bloomberg News.  Avoiding stringent testing won’t help nations and banks
regain market confidence, Cass Business School’s Hahn said.  “A market-accepted stress test would help move the
pendulum” away from a focus on the solvency of nations, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Simon Clark  in London at
   sclark4@bloomberg.net ;  Gavin Finch  in London
at   gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  