-- Bank of America Muni Bid Rigging Payments May Be `Tip of the Iceberg'
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2010-12-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/bank-of-america-deal-in-muni-case-may-be-tip-of-the-iceberg-.html
Bank of America Corp.’s  agreement to
pay $137 million in restitution for taking part in a nationwide
bid-rigging conspiracy for municipal-investment contracts may
soon be followed by more settlements to repay the scheme’s
victims, the Justice Department’s Antitrust Division head said.  “Stay tuned to this channel -- I think you will see a lot
more activity in the coming weeks and months,”  Christine Varney , the antitrust chief, told reporters yesterday. “We are
committed to getting restitution, full restitution, to all the
municipalities that were victims of this scheme.”  Bank of America, which has assisted the government probe of
the $2.8 trillion municipal-bond market since at least 2007 in
return for leniency, has provided documents, e-mails and
recordings of phone calls, according to court records of civil
suits. In September,  Douglas Lee Campbell , formerly employed by
the bank’s municipal derivatives group, pleaded guilty to taking
part in a conspiracy to pay state and local governments below-
market rates on investments purchased with bond proceeds.  Bank of America’s settlement is “likely the tip of the
iceberg,”  Andrew Gavil , a law professor at Howard University in
Washington, D.C., said in an e-mail. He said other conspirators
may pay much higher penalties.  The government has identified more than a dozen firms,
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  UBS AG , and  Societe Generale  as
unindicted co-conspirators in a criminal case brought by the
Justice Department against a Los Angeles investment broker.  Facing Civil Suits  JPMorgan, UBS, a unit of  General Electric Co.  and a former
subsidiary of Belgian bank  Dexia SA  have also reported in
regulatory filings that they face civil suits by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The companies say they are
cooperating with the government.  Varney declined to provide details on the continuing probe.
Bank of America is the largest U.S. lender by assets.  The investigation centers on investment agreements that
municipalities enter into with money raised through bond sales.
The so-called guaranteed investment contracts let them earn a
return on the funds until the cash is needed for schools, roads
or other public works. The U.S. Treasury Department encourages
competitive bidding to ensure that localities get market rates.  Prosecutors have said that favored bankers got inside
information from brokers who handled bidding for the contracts
so they could carve up the market. In some cases, bankers
admitted paying kickbacks to brokers.  “I had conversations prior to the bid with the broker
about who the bidders were going to be and who was going to win
or lose,” Campbell, the former Bank of America executive, told
a federal judge when he pleaded guilty on Sept. 9, according to
a court transcript.  Leniency Program  Bank of America, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, has
been helping the Justice Department in return for leniency in
the case. The bank was the first to self-report illegal activity
and won’t be prosecuted as long as it continues to cooperate
with the government, Varney said.  “The bank’s participation in the leniency program has also
resulted in today’s resolution to address the harm caused by its
wrongdoing,” Varney said in yesterday’s statement. “As a
result of its voluntary disclosure of its anticompetitive
conduct and its ongoing cooperation, Bank of America will not be
required to pay penalties as a part of the agreements.”  Since the 1990s, the Antitrust Division’s leniency program
has been a major boon in helping federal investigators uncover
criminal cartels, according to antitrust lawyers. Lacking the
program’s protection, banks that are found to be part of the
conspiracy likely will pay much higher fines, Gavil said.  CDR Case  In the case against one firm, Los Angeles investment broker
 CDR Financial Products Inc. , prosecutors say it included more
than 200 deals involving about 160 state agencies, local
governments and nonprofits from California to Pennsylvania.  Three former CDR employees pleaded guilty to charges this
year and agreed to cooperate with investigators. Three others
have entered not guilty pleas. CDR itself is scheduled to go on
trial in September on related conspiracy charges, according to
the Justice Department.  CDR faces a fine of as much as $100 million, if convicted,
the government has said. In a statement on its website in
October 2009, the company said the charges are “without merit
and in fact, a total fiction based on a lack of understanding of
the municipal reinvestment market.”  Restitution Payments  Bank of America  agreed to pay $67 million in restitution
directly to states from California to Connecticut, and another
$70 million to the SEC, the Internal Revenue Service and the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, according to
statements from the agencies and states. Varney said the bank’s
agreement covers activity from at least 1997 through 2002. The
SEC  said  the bank neither admitted nor denied its findings in
agreeing to settle a related securities-fraud complaint.  “Bank of America is pleased to put this matter behind it
and has already voluntarily undertaken numerous remediation
efforts,” the company said yesterday in a statement.  The bank wasn’t the leader or organizer of the bid-rigging
conspiracy, according to the Justice Department. The bank agreed
to pay disgorgement and interest ranging from $8,418 for
Missouri’s development finance agency to $6.2 million for
Massachusetts, according to the SEC.  Over the next few months, 20 state Attorneys General and
Bank of America will work together to select an administrator
and identify municipalities who may have a claim against the
bank, said Jim Finefrock, a spokesman for  Jerry Brown ,
California’s attorney general and governor-elect.  Those who submit claims release Bank of America from other
civil restitution, according to  documents  released by Brown’s
office.  Eight one-time bankers and financial advisers, including
former employees of UBS, JPMorgan and Bank of America, have
pleaded guilty in connection with the municipal bid-rigging
probe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Bliss  in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum in New York at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 