-- Bankers Fail to Soften EU Bonus Rules, Lawyers Say
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2010-12-08T11:49:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/bankers-fail-to-win-concessions-on-european-union-bonus-rules-lawyers-say.html
Bankers failed to soften European
rules on bonuses that will limit cash payouts and impose minimum
share retention periods, lawyers said.  The rules, to be approved by European Union regulators at a
two-day meeting in London starting tomorrow, are likely to be
similar to those proposed earlier this year, which limited
bankers to receiving a maximum of a quarter of their bonuses in
immediate cash payouts.  Regulators throughout European Union must adopt the
proposals from the  Committee of European Banking Supervisors  as
part of a range of measures to rein in the risk-taking blamed
for causing the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression. Banking groups including the  British Bankers’
Association  lobbied to change the rules, arguing that any
agreement on bonuses needed to apply around the globe.  “I’ve not had any indication they’ll move away from the
proposals outlined in the consultation document,”  Stefan Martin , an employment law specialist at  Allen & Overy LLP  in
London, said in a telephone interview. European supervisors will
maintain that banks “must have an appropriate multiple of
salary to bonus.”  Bonus awards should be split between shares and cash, and
at least half of each segment of the bonus must be deferred for
three years or longer, according to rules proposed by London-
based CEBS. Franca Rosa Congiu, spokeswoman for CEBS, declined
to comment on the final guidelines.  ‘Smaller Players’  Large banks “aren’t going to be too worried,” Martin
said, “but some of the smaller players that pay cash aren’t
going to have any kind of equity arrangement.”  “I’m not expecting much in the way of change in the final
draft,”  Darren Fox , financial regulation partner at Simmons &
Simmons LLP in London, said in a telephone interview.  European rules will include provisions for national
regulators to take back bonuses paid to senior managers whose
risks are later found to have caused losses at a financial firm.  “We’ve already got clawback and its one of the essential
tenets of the bonus policy,”  Heidi Ashley , a spokeswoman for
the U.K. Financial Services Authority, said in a telephone
interview.  The U.K. regulator held meetings with hedge-fund managers
to determine how to make sure the national limits are in line
with the EU measures.  The FSA is “awaiting final CEBS guidelines” before
publishing its own bonus rules, Ashley said.  Fair Limits  Salaries for managing directors at large banks has more
than doubled to 350,000 pounds ($552,000) a year in anticipation
of bonus restrictions,  Hugo Gordon-Lennox , director at financial
services recruiter  Webber Chase  in London, said in a telephone
interview.  HSBC Holdings Plc  may double the base salary of some
investment bankers following similar increases by competitors,
said a person with knowledge of the plans in November.  “The links between individual effort and profit in finance
is much weaker than in real pursuits so limits on compensation
are fair,” Sony Kapoor, managing director of policy group
Re-Define Europe, said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 