-- Bayer to Spend $4.1 Billion on Research in 2011 as Xarelto Trials Near End
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2010-12-08T14:48:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/bayer-to-spend-4-1-billion-on-research-in-2011-as-xarelto-trials-near-end.html
Bayer AG  plans no increase in its
research budget next year, the first time its spending on
science has been unchanged since the 2006 Schering AG  takeover .  Spending will likely remain at the 2010 level of about 3.1
billion euros ($4.1 billion), after a 13 percent rise this year
amid final trials for the experimental blood thinner Xarelto,
the maker of drugs and chemicals said today at its headquarters
in Leverkusen, Germany.  Health spending cuts by governments including that of
Bayer’s home market are putting pressure on drugmakers to keep
costs down, Chief Executive Officer  Marijn Dekkers  said in a
Bloomberg Television interview today. Mandatory negotiations on
the prices of innovative medicines approved in Berlin’s lower
house of parliament last month may cost drugmakers 2 billion
euros a year, Dekkers said.  “For us it’s very important that we have under development
products that are really superior in performance to what’s
already out in the market,” Dekkers said. “When you truly have
superior products that address clinical needs, society will be
willing to pay for those innovations.”  Development costs for some products may rise 40 percent to
50 percent over time, he said.  Bayer repeated an estimate that Xarelto, a potential
replacement for warfarin for irregular heartbeat patients, may
bring peak annual sales of more than 2 billion euros in a market
valued at about 10 billion euros a year. Bayer said last month
it aims to shift resources to product development and emerging
markets in a reorganization that will cut about 800 million
euros a year in costs starting in 2013.  Job Cuts  The reshuffle announced last month will cut about 4,500
jobs around the world.  Bayer will spend 67 percent of this year’s research budget
on its pharmaceutical unit, Dekkers said. About 25 percent of
research spending is allocated to Bayer’s agricultural-chemical
unit, and the remainder to its plastics unit.  Bayer’s 2006 acquisition of Schering made the health-care
unit the company’s largest. Research spending rose 33 percent
that year to 2.3 billion euros and has risen every year since.  There are more than 50 projects in clinical tests today,
Dekkers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Leverkusen at  nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  