-- Benno Brings Tiny-Tailed Lobster to $20-Million Lincoln: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2010-12-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/benno-brings-tiny-tailed-38-lobster-to-20-million-lincoln-ryan-sutton.html
Eventually, Jonathan Benno’s $20
million Lincoln should become the destination restaurant it’s
meant to be. The food has a long way to go, but the digs are
really nice.  This occurred to me as I chewed, and chewed, on the pork
loin. The leathery texture seemed less challenging as I gazed at
the  Metropolitan Opera  across the plaza, enticingly framed by
Lincoln’s enormous glass walls.  So it goes at  Lincoln Center ’s latest addition, more than
just a fancy trattoria serving a mixed-bag of ridiculously
expensive entrees. Enter the glass and wood space, its roof a
grassy hillock where Juilliard dancers soak up sun, and you’re
part of one of the city’s great new gathering spots.  Then the  build-your-own  Negroni bar blurs the focus.  This aperitif is typically a tannic mix of gin, Campari and
sweet vermouth. Lincoln offers 125 variants. I paired Hendricks
(cucumbery), Aperol (orangey) and Lillet Blanc (flowery) for a
lighter riff on the original. It was lovely.  Sip your potable, swivel in your leather chair and
contemplate the reflecting pool outside -- if you’re sitting in
the East room.  You then look at the menu and probably grow despondent.
Benno’s backing comes from the  Patina Restaurant Group ,
responsible for the  Rockefeller Center Ice Rink , Macy’s Cellar
Bar & Grill,  Tortilla Jo’s  at Disneyland and various other
venues whose goal is to get you in, ply you with cost-effective
inoffensive fare and get you out in a fixed period of time. And
that’s exactly the type of efficiency many of Lincoln’s pre-
theater diners undoubtedly will seek out.  Lazy Salad  The first item listed is a $16 salad. When Benno was chef
at  Thomas Keller ’s Per Se, he paired sweet beets with a gel made
stringent with  Angostura bitters , a brilliant melange of earthy
textures and flavors. Lincoln’s mixed-green salad could be
anybody’s, and it’s oversalted.  There are easily assembled preparations like prosciutto
with burrata and squash ($22). It’s well executed, the
creaminess of the cheese offsetting the salty meat. Yet it’s no
more distinctive than one served at a catered dinner party.  What’s better than pate before the  Philharmonic ? Not much.
Lincoln ruins a $26 foie gras and oxtail terrine with bites of
gristly fat. Across Broadway at noisy Bar Boulud, you can get
some of the finest pate in the land for under $20.  Benno is best when he veers from the predictable.  Does any other cook plunge cod in a nutty prosciutto broth?
I doubt it. Does anyone else cut razor clams to the same length
as cavatelli? You don’t know which white batons are dough or
mollusk until they’re in your mouth.  Scrubbing Bubbles  Cacciucco ($36) sensuously balances the tingle of silky,
rare prawn and the cozy, fennel-infused broth they float in.  Fried lambs tongue, its musky tang lingering for minutes,
gets a sweet treat of beets to soften the heady blow. Pair it
with a glass of bone dry Lambrusco, a sparkling red whose
bubbles scrub the gaminess off your tongue.  Items from the $110 tasting menu can be ordered a la carte.
Be sure to ask for pricing in advance: A few little slices of
insipid steak with bone marrow custard were $40 and a far cry
from the massively flavorful rib cap Benno served at Per Se.  A single, stellar raviolo packed with a tiny, bisque-
drenched lobster tail was excellent. It also was $38.  More Risks  Malloreddus, little knob-shaped pasta with lemon and
preserved tuna, is a cheaper deal off the chef’s menu at $22.  Benno knows rustic food like this from his days at the
outstanding Craft. Buttered gnocchi evoke Tom Colicchio’s solid
dumplings. But sardine pasta that’s indistinguishable from home
cooked versions just isn’t worth $24, nor is mushy lasagna at
$26. Chicken confit packs a punch of concentrated flavor; the
accompanying breast is dry and pedestrian ($32).  Benno regains our trust with high-end versions of Italian-
American classics, including unexpectedly light, greaseless
eggplant Parmesan.  He wakes up tiramisu with coffee liqueur and a crispy
chocolate tuile on top -- creme brulee meets baba au rhum. The
typical sweetness of an airy ricotta cheesecake is delegated to
a side of cinnamon gelato. It’s half cheese-plate, half dessert.  What lingers, though, are the dishes like that nutty cod
and the intense lobster raviolo. They promise the kind of first-
rate experience that only Lincoln’s prices now suggest.
Rating: **  The Bloomberg Questions  Prices: About $150 per person.  Sound Level: Moderate, rarely above 70 decibels.  Date Place: Yes; great views.  Inside tip: Solid, albeit pricey tripe at $18.  Special Feature: Many wines on the heavily Italian list
under $60.  Will I be back: For the awesome, if exorbitantly pricey,
raviolo.  Lincoln is at 142 W. 65th St. Information: +1-212-359-6500
or  http://www.lincolnristorante.com .  
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels):  51 to 55: Church on a weekday. 56 to 60: The vegetable aisle at
the Food Emporium. 61 to 65: Keyboards clacking at the office.
66 to 70: My alarm clock when it goes off inches from my ear. 71
to 75: Corner deli at lunchtime. 76 to 80: Back of a taxi with
advertisements at full volume. 81 to 85: Loud, crowded subway
with announcements.  ( Ryan Sutton  writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 