-- Bernanke’s 21-Month Conversion Takes 60 Minutes: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2010-12-08T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/bernanke-s-21-month-u-turn-takes-60-minutes-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
He probably wishes he hadn’t said it,
the part about the Federal Reserve not printing money and his
100 percent confidence in his ability to raise interest rates at
the appropriate time to prevent an acceleration of inflation.  But he did. The Fed does (print money). And nothing is 100
percent certain in this world, except death and taxes.  So what on earth was  Ben Bernanke  thinking when he talked
to  Scott Pelley  on CBS’s “60 Minutes” Sunday night?  It was a different Bernanke than the one who sat down for
an  interview  with the same correspondent on the same TV news
magazine on March 15, 2009.  That Bernanke was humble. Viewers responded positively to
him. Here was arguably the most powerful man in the world who
hadn’t forgotten his small-town roots. A creature of neither
Wall Street nor Washington, Bernanke inherited a financial
system on the verge of collapse and, as he put it, he was forced
to bail out Wall Street to save Main Street.  Sunday’s Bernanke was different, defensive. He was
responding to his critics, both domestic and foreign, who are
opposed to the second round of quantitative easing as either
unnecessary, a case of overreach or  dollar-debasing  and
therefore inflationary.  He looked more rested than he did in March 2009. In
defending himself, Bernanke said some things that left critics
and admirers scratching their heads. For example, take his
contention about money printing. Here’s the comment in full to
provide context:  “We’re not printing money. The amount of  currency in
circulation  is not changing. The  money supply  is not changing in
any significant way. What we’re doing is lowering interest rates
by buying Treasury securities. And by lowering interest rates,
we hope to stimulate the economy to grow faster.”  Literal Interpretation  Unlike his predecessor,  Alan Greenspan , Bernanke isn’t
known for his nuanced and obfuscatory statements. So I doubt he
was referring to the physical act of printing coinage and notes
by the U.S. Mint and U.S. Bureau of Engraving and Printing,
respectively, which are part of the Treasury Department.  Of course the central bank prints (definition: manufactures
or produces out of pixie dust) money. Bernanke invoked that
power in 2002 to reassure the public that the Fed has the means
to prevent deflation, or a decline in the price level: a
“technology known as a  printing press  that allows it to produce
as many U.S. dollars as it wishes at essentially no cost.”  Broad money growth, which had been sluggish, is starting to
accelerate. The latest figures show  M2  growing at a 7.2 percent
three-month annualized rate.  Compare and Contrast  Let’s compare the Bernanke of March 2009, working on little
sleep and lots of adrenalin to keep the markets functioning and
economy afloat, to the Bernanke of December 2010.  Back then, Bernanke conceded that “It’s hard to forecast
where we’re going.” It is hard -- in both good times and bad.
The uncertainty principle applies to both phases of the business
cycle, not just a contracting economy.  Now, asked by Pelley what degree of confidence he had in
his ability to act at the appropriate time to prevent inflation
from accelerating, Bernanke said, “A hundred percent.”  Bernanke, who told Pelley he wished he had seen the crisis
coming and who told Congress in March 2007 the impact of the
subprime crisis was likely to be “ contained ,” is 100 percent
certain his model will alert him when it’s time to exit?  Political Posturing  Early last year, amid sightings of “green shoots” and a
200-basis-point spike in 10-year Treasury yields, it was all
“ exit strategy ” all the time for the Fed.  The shoots turned brown, and Bernanke’s exit strategy
became a revolving door to get back in.  What’s so troubling about the Sunday interview is that it
wasn’t Bernanke, the media-shy economist, talking. It was a
politician attempting to bolster confidence in his constituents
and support for his policies. That’s not an ideal character
trait for a central banker at a time when official interest
rates, already close to zero, can only go up. The opposition
from Congress to any rate increase will be intense, especially
since the Fed will have to embark on its journey to normalize
rates well before the  unemployment rate  falls to an acceptable
level.  In the March 2009 interview, Bernanke said that the biggest
risk was that the U.S. wouldn’t have the “political will” to
fight the crisis and would withdraw support for the economy too
early.  After Sunday’s interview, we no longer have to worry about
the Fed’s commitment to doing whatever it takes to promote a
self-sustaining recovery. The real concern is policy makers
won’t know when they’ve done enough. If history is any guide, we
can be almost 100 percent certain that they won’t.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  