-- Best Indonesia Sukuk Fund Expects Rating Boost on Returns: Islamic Finance
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   S u r y a n i   O m a r
-- 2010-12-09T07:58:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/best-indonesia-sukuk-fund-expects-rating-boost-on-returns-islamic-finance.html
Indonesia’s Islamic bonds may extend
this year’s rally that drove yields to record lows on prospects
of further ratings upgrades, according to the manager of the
world’s best-performing sukuk fund.  PT Bhakti Asset Management’s  BIG Dana Muamalah  fund, which
returned 13.4 percent this year, bought rupiah-denominated
government sukuk in March, the same month Standard & Poor’s
raised the nation’s rating to BB, two levels below investment
grade. BIG Dana, the top performer in 2010 among 67 Shariah-
compliant fixed-income funds tracked by Bloomberg, expects more
Indonesian companies to sell Islamic bonds next year.  “Yields will fall if the credit rating is upgraded to
investment grade and more corporate sukuk issuance comes on
board,” Jakarta-based  Akbar Syarief , who helps oversee 700
billion rupiah ($77.6 million) at Bhakti Asset, said in an
interview on Dec. 3. “Achieving similar returns for the coming
year is possible.”  Six of this year’s 10 best-performing Islamic funds are
from Indonesia as S&P and Moody’s Investors Service increased
their credit assessments because of the nation’s improving
economy and government finances. The yield on the rupiah-
denominated sukuk maturing in 2015 has dropped at more than five
times the pace of similar-maturity debt in Malaysia, which is
rated higher at A- by S&P.  Global Inflows  The yield on Indonesia’s 11.8 percent local-currency
Islamic bond due in August 2015 has declined 203 basis points,
or 2.03 percentage points, this year. The rate reached a record-
low 6.35 percent on Dec. 3, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Indicative yields on ringgit sukuk dropped 38 basis
points to 3.46 percent, according to an  index  compiled by Bank
Negara Malaysia.  Mega Dana Obligasi Syariah, managed by Jakarta-based PT
Mega Capital Indonesia, returned 12.1 percent this year to be
the second-best performing sukuk fund. Nany Susilowati,
president director of Mega Capital, didn’t return calls made to
her office or reply to e-mailed questions seeking comment.  “Rating upgrades are coming next year, although a two-
level increase can’t be expected until 2012,”  Helmi Arman , a
fixed-income analyst at PT Bank Danamon, Indonesia’s sixth-
largest lender, said in an interview from Jakarta yesterday.
“Yields on Indonesian bonds generally will fall further on two
reasons; rating upgrades and inflows of global funds.”  Moody’s on Dec. 1 placed Indonesia on review for a possible
upgrade to its Ba2 rating, two levels below investment grade.  “The economic recovery is being sustained alongside well-
managed external accounts and reasonably good inflation
fundamentals,” said  Aninda Mitra , a vice president at Moody’s
and its lead sovereign analyst for Indonesia, in a statement.  Foreign Holdings  Foreign  holdings  of Indonesian bonds rose 79 percent this
year to a record 192.9 trillion rupiah as of Dec. 3, according
to data from the finance ministry’s  website .  Global sales of sukuk, which pay returns based on asset
flows to comply with the religion’s ban on interest, fell 31
percent this year to $13.8 billion, Bloomberg data show.
Issuance reached a record $31 billion in 2007.  Shariah-compliant bonds returned 12 percent in 2010, the
 HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index  shows, while debt in
emerging markets gained 13 percent, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  The  difference  between the average yield for sukuk in
developing nations and the London interbank offered rate has
narrowed 151 basis points to 316 points since Dec. 31, according
to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index. The extra yield
investors demand to hold Dubai’s government sukuk rather than
Malaysia’s narrowed 51 basis points to 347 this month, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Draw Investors  Indonesia’s local-currency Islamic bonds beat the nation’s
only dollar-denominated global sukuk this year. The notes
returned 16.4 percent, compared with 9.3 percent for the U.S.
currency debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Indonesia plans to sell Shariah-compliant notes to
individual investors in the local market and a global sukuk in
the first half of 2011,  Rahmat Waluyanto , director-general at
the Finance Ministry’s debt-management office, said Dec. 2. In
February, the government sold 8.03 trillion rupiah of Islamic
bonds to the general public, more than the 3 trillion rupiah
target, Waluyanto said after the sale.  “We expect the returns to draw more investors to sukuk
funds,” said Bhakti Asset’s Syarief.  BIG Dana increased its fund to 113 billion rupiah from 19
billion rupiah at the start of the year, according to Syarief.
Mega Dana is 95 percent invested in bonds and 5 percent in
money-market instruments, according to its website.  “The limited supply of corporate sukuk prompted us to buy
more government sukuk,” Syarief said. “The opportunities from
higher yields and capital gains due to the liquidity of
government sukuk made it more attractive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
Suryani Omar in Singapore at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 