-- Billionaire Prokhorov Bets on High-Tech Companies as Commodities `Hedge'
-- B y   R y a n   C h i l c o t e ,   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2010-12-08T12:44:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/billionaire-prokhorov-bets-on-high-tech-as-hedge-against-commodities-drop.html
Mikhail Prokhorov  is changing tactics
to protect his fortune, moving some of his cash pile into high-
tech ventures to hedge against falling prices for commodities,
which account for the bulk of the Russian billionaire's
wealth.  “When you have a rising trend in commodities, usually you
have a downward trend in high-tech, and just the opposite,”
Prokhorov said in a Dec. 6 interview with Bloomberg Television
at his headquarters in central Moscow. “That means it’s very
important to have both.”  Prokhorov said he seeks to cut the share of commodities in
his fortune to below 40 percent in 4 to 10 years from about 70
percent now. He sold his 25 percent of  OAO Norilsk Nickel  to
fellow billionaire  Oleg Deripaska  in 2008 for at least $4.5
billion in cash and 17 percent of the biggest aluminum maker,
United Co. Rusal. He also owns 37 percent of OAO Polyus Gold,
Russia’s largest miner of the metal.  The billionaire has invested almost $500 million so far in
technology projects, including the development of Russia’s first
hybrid electric car, bulbs based on light-emitting diodes and
fiber-optic meters to measure power use. The value of his high-
tech holdings will rise a “minimum five times” within three or
four years, he said.  ‘Diversification’  The 45-year-old investor lost his top spot on Forbes
magazine’s list of rich Russians to OAO Novolipetsk Chairman
 Vladimir Lisin  in the monthly’s May edition, even as his fortune
swelled to $13.4 billion from $9.5 billion a year earlier. Since
then, the value of his Rusal and Polyus stakes alone have risen
about 20 percent to $7.8 billion.  “Nobody says that it’s bad to invest in commodities,”
Prokhorov said. “We are talking about diversification. It’s not
enough to invest only in commodities.”  A year ago, Prokhorov said in an interview that he viewed
his gold holding in Polyus as a hedge against his cash pile,
held mainly in U.S. dollars. His gold assets rise when the
dollar falls, and his dollar assets gain when the price of gold
declines, he said at the time. Now, he said, he intends to keep
less than 20 percent of his wealth in cash.  Prokhorov’s other investments include the New Jersey Nets
basketball team, which he acquired for $200 million in May, and
half of Moscow-based brokerage Renaissance Capital, for which he
paid $500 million in September 2008.  The fame that comes with being the first investor outside
of North America to own a major U.S. sport franchise has created
further opportunities, the investor said. He’s received at least
four “serious” proposals from American companies since taking
over the Nets, including a possible $5 billion tie-up between a
U.S. energy supplier and his OAO TGK-4 power utility in Russia.  “Every week, I receive a minimum 20 proposals from the
United States,” Prokhorov said. “Some are completely crazy.”  Medvedev, Putin  TGK-4 last year formed a venture with Dalkia SA of France
to work on energy saving and heating projects in Russia that the
two companies expect will produce $1 billion in sales by 2015.  Prokhorov’s own diversification away from commodities
dovetails with President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s goals for Russia’s
economy, and he’s a member of the government’s advisory board
for modernization. Still, the billionaire said his investment
decisions aren’t guided by the Kremlin.  “It’s up to me to decide in what direction and what is the
volume I am going to invest,” Prokhorov said. “But what is
important to me is that the president and the Russian government
are very serious about this. Don’t forget we were the first to
put a man into space.”  Prokhorov, an avid blogger, in March won approval from
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  to build a factory to produce
electric cars in Togliatti, the Volga River city that is home to
Renault SA partner  OAO AvtoVAZ , the country’s biggest automaker.  ‘Yo’  Onexim Group, Prokhorov’s holding company, decided to name
his hybrid car “Yo” after an Internet voting contest. Yo is
the name for the letter in the Russian alphabet that resembles
the English “e.” Prokhorov plans to unveil the first Yo next
week, with production slated for mid-2012. Powered by
combinations of gasoline, methane and a battery, the Yo will
retail for about $10,000 and have a maximum speed of 120
kilometers (75 miles) an hour, according to Onexim.  Prokhorov said the hybrid is designed to be small enough to
maneuver in downtown traffic, though it’s big enough to
accommodate his 2-meter (6-foot-7-inch) frame.  “I can sit there,” he said.  “It’s enough even to fit
me. I’ll send you a photo.”  Prokhorov said he’s constantly looking for ways his various
ventures can complement each other, citing the factory he opened
last month in St. Petersburg as an example. The plant makes LED
bulbs that will be used both in the Yo and in the arena being
built in Brooklyn to host the Nets.  “That’s an excellent advertisement,” Prokhorov said.
“It’s a great business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  