-- BNP Paribas Sued by Former Clients Claiming Deception, Fraud
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2010-12-08T08:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/bnp-paribas-sued-by-former-clients-in-singapore-claiming-deception-fraud.html
BNP Paribas Wealth Management  was
sued by two former private banking clients in Singapore who
claim they were deceived into buying high-risk investment
products that resulted in an $11 million loss.  The unit of the world’s biggest bank by assets and Wee Wan
Tin, a Singapore-based managing director, engaged in fraud to
sell two-year equity-linked investments tied to  Intel Corp., 
Advanced Micro Devices Inc. and Dell Inc. in 2007, Indonesian
businessman Henry Djuhari and his wife Nathaline Lie Djuhari
said in a lawsuit filed with Singapore’s High Court.  The loss was because of the global financial turmoil and
the couple’s decision to sell the investments, the Paris-based
bank said in its filing with the court. The Djuharis had also
“voluntarily consented” to taking on the risks involved, BNP
Paribas said. A closed hearing in the case was held yesterday.  See Tow Soo Ling, the lawyer for the Djuharis, didn’t
immediately reply to an e-mail and phone calls requesting
comment.  Yunis Lee , a Singapore-based spokeswoman at BNP Paribas,
said she couldn’t immediately comment on the case.  Henry, a university graduate and owner of a family-
controlled shipping company, “held himself out to be a
sophisticated investor with sufficient experience, skill and
knowledge of such investments,” the bank said in its filings.  The couple said in their filings they were conservative
investors and that they weren’t told the investments were
illiquid.  Citigroup, Societe Generale  Private banks in Asia have faced a number of lawsuits from
clients since the financial crisis precipitated by Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse.  Citigroup Inc. settled a lawsuit from a Singapore
businessman who had claimed he had been forced to unwind trades
at an adverse time. Societe Generale SA last month won an order
against a former client with a Hong Kong judge ruling that the
counterclaim was “practically moonshine.”  The Djuharis had bought $79 million of equity-linked
investments from BNP Paribas from August 2006 to July 2007,
according to the court papers. The Djuharis are also seeking the
return of $1.2 million in interest he incurred from using a
credit facility to buy the equity-linked investments.  K. Muralidharan Pillai from Rajah & Tann is acting for BNP
Paribas.  The case is Henry Djuhari & Anor vs. BNP Paribas Wealth
Management & Anor, S604/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Tan  in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  