-- Bond Traders Cut Inflation Bets as Bank Signals Rate Boost: Brazil Credit
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2010-12-08T11:28:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/bond-traders-cut-inflation-bets-as-bank-signals-rate-boost-brazil-credit.html
Bond traders are paring their bets
for higher inflation at the fastest pace in four months amid
speculation Brazil’s central bank will signal today that it’s
ready to raise borrowing costs next year.  Investor expectations for annual inflation over the next
two years, implied by the yield gap between the government’s
inflation-linked and fixed-rate bonds, fell to 6.31 percent
yesterday from a two-year high of 6.67 percent on Nov. 23,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The decline of 36 basis
points over the past two weeks is the biggest since August.  Alexandre Tombini , who is awaiting Senate confirmation this
week to become the next central bank president, will begin
increasing interest rates at his first meeting in January after
holding it at 10.75 percent today, trading in rate futures
shows. Policy makers boosted reserve requirements last week for
the first time since February, joining China and India in
tightening credit growth, as consumer prices rose at the fastest
pace since April 2009.  “We expect the central bank to send a very clear signal
that indeed they are going to hike in January,”  Virgilio Castro Cunha , the head of fixed-income strategy at Bank of America
Corp. in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone interview. “This is all
about credibility that the incoming administration will grant
full autonomy to the central bank. To show that more forcefully,
you start the tightening cycle with a new central bank
president.”  President-elect  Dilma Rousseff , who takes office on Jan. 1,
pledged “total operational autonomy” for the central bank
after she nominated Tombini last month.  Yields Drop  Bonds that offer investors protection against inflation
lagged behind fixed-rated securities in the past two weeks on
speculation policy makers are ready to take action to stem
increases in consumer prices. Yields on the government’s 6
percent inflation-linked notes maturing in August 2012 rose 36
basis points, or 0.36 percentage point, since Nov. 23, the
biggest two-week jump in seven months, to 6.15 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yields on Brazil’s 10 percent fixed-rate bonds due in
January 2013 held at 12.46 percent during the same period.  Traders in the interest-rate futures market are betting
Tombini will raise the benchmark rate, known as Selic, by at
least 25 basis points to 11 percent in January, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Last week, they scrapped wagers on
an increase at today’s meeting after President  Henrique Meirelles  boosted reserve and capital requirements to remove
about 61 billion reais ($36.2 billion) from the economy.  ‘Pave the Way’  The central bank is likely to signal it will raise interest
rates in its statement at the conclusion of the two-day meeting
that ends today, said  Marcelo Carvalho , the head of Latin
American research at Banco BNP Paribas Brasil SA.  “The authorities will pave the way for a subsequent hike
most likely in January,” Carvalho said in a telephone
interview.  All but three of 50 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg
forecast the central bank will keep the rate unchanged. The
remaining economists, including  Zeina Latif  at RBS Securities
Inc., predict an increase of at least 25 basis points.  The central bank will start raising borrowing costs in
January and bring the Selic rate to 12.5 percent by year-end,
according to  Kathy Jones , an emerging-markets bond strategist at
Morgan Stanley Smith Barney in a telephone interview.  “There’s a need to raise rates,” Jones said in a
telephone interview. “The fiscal policy needs to adjust as
well.”  Government Spending  President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva increased spending 27
percent in the first nine months of the year.  A spending cut that is equivalent to 1 percent of gross
domestic product would slow inflation by 0.32 percentage point,
according to the median estimate of economists in a central bank
survey published Nov. 8.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 1 basis point to 161
at 6:20 a.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell one basis point to
106, according to data compiled by CMA. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities
or the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  The real fell 0.2 percent to 1.6858 per dollar.  TIPS  Bonds tied to inflation gained 11.6 percent this year,
compared with a 10.8 percent advance for fixed-rate securities,
according to data compiled by the capital markets association,
known as Anbima. U.S. Treasury Inflation Protected Securities
are up 8.1 percent during the same period, while inflation-
linked bonds in Europe lost 1 percent, according to data
compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Bank of America’s Cunha said he recommends investors buy
the fixed-rate Brazilian bonds over the inflation-linked debt.  Credit growth, higher food prices and  government spending 
may push the inflation rate above target for a third consecutive
month in November.  Consumer prices, as measured by the  IPCA index , rose 5.63
percent in November from a year earlier, the highest level since
February 2009.  The central bank targets annual inflation of 4.5 percent,
plus or minus 2 percentage points.  ‘Credibility’  Tombini, who served on the central bank’s board for the
past five years, said at his Senate confirmation hearing
yesterday that he’s committed to the inflation-targeting regime
the country adopted in 1999 and that Brazil should create the
conditions for a lower target.  “Tombini is one of the intellectual fathers of Brazil’s
inflation-targeting regime,” Bank of America’s Cunha said.
“He’s not going to put his credibility at risk.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Bristow  in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  