-- BP, Contractors ‘Breathtakingly Inept,’ Reilly Says
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2010-12-08T16:03:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/bp-contractors-at-gulf-well-breathtakingly-inept-reilly-says.html
BP Plc ,  Transocean Ltd.  and
 Halliburton Co . were “breathtakingly inept” and made mistakes
that were “largely preventable” at the doomed Macondo well,  a
leader of a panel investigating the disaster said.  The U.S. shares blame for the April blowout and spill
because it lacks the ability to maintain adequate oversight of
the oil industry,  William K. Reilly  said today in remarks
prepared for an industry conference in New Orleans. Oil
companies should set up a self-regulating body to work with the
U.S. on increasing deep-water drilling safety, he said.  “The understanding and expertise of government regulators
has lagged far behind the technological advances that have made
deep-water drilling possible, and it will take time for them to
catch up,” said Reilly, co-chairman of the  National Commission
on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill .  The April 20 explosion at BP’s Macondo well killed 11
workers, spewed crude for 87 days and shut a third of the Gulf
to commercial fishing. The spill-investigating commission has
said decisions made by BP and its contractors suggest risks were
ignored before the explosion.  Reilly said the oil industry should create and manage a
Safety Institute, which would encourage early adoption of
revised drilling standards and insist that service providers
embrace the rules when hired for drilling in deep water. He said
the comments are his own because the commission hasn’t completed
its report, which is due on Jan. 12.  ‘Missteps, Miscalculations’  “There is virtual consensus among all the sophisticated
observers of this debacle that three of the leading players in
the industry made a series of missteps, miscalculations and
miscommunications that were breathtakingly inept and largely
preventable,” Reilly said in his remarks.  Oil companies must reconsider the industry’s response on
drilling and spills or face a “disproportionately severe”
reaction from government regulators, Reilly said. “If the
industry leaves this exclusively up to government and the
regulators, the industry will ultimately regret it,” he said.  BP faulted its engineers for the fatal drilling-rig blast
in an internal investigation, and said contractors Transocean
and Halliburton share the blame. The two other companies have
said BP was responsible for decision-making on the rig.  London-based BP owned the Macondo well in the Gulf.
Transocean Ltd. owned the rig that exploded. Halliburton
supplied cement to plug the well. The spill led to ban of deep-
water drilling in the Gulf that halted work on 33 rigs. The
moratorium was lifted on Oct. 12.  Halliburton “remains confident that all the work it
performed with respect to the Macondo well was completed in
accordance with BP’s specifications,” said  Zelma Branch , a
spokeswoman for the company.  Transocean, BP Engineers  Transocean followed the “calculations, blueprints and
step-by-step construction procedures” created by BP’s engineers
at the well, said Brian Kennedy, a company spokesman.
“Employees executed various steps in those plans at the
instruction of BP engineers on the rig and on shore,” he said.  A spokesman for BP didn’t return a call seeking comment.  The U.S. this week will provide guidance for companies
seeking permits to drill in the Gulf’s deep waters,  Michael Bromwich , director of the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management,
Regulation and Enforcement, said at the conference.  “We will not cut corners in the permit review process and
permits will be approved only when we are satisfied that all
applicable regulatory requirements are met,” Bromwich said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in New Orleans at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net . 