-- BP May Seek China Investors With Yuan Bond as It Meets U.S. Spill Costs
-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n   a n d   H e n r y   S a n d e r s o n
-- 2010-12-08T11:38:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/bp-may-sell-bonds-in-china-to-help-fund-gulf-of-mexico-spill-clean-up-cost.html
BP Plc , facing as much as $40 billion
in costs for the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, may sell bonds
targeting Chinese investors to diversify its sources of funding.  BP is considering debt sales in yuan as well as yen and
Australian and Canadian dollars,  Gary Admans , the London-based
company’s manager of debt capital markets, said at Euromoney’s
Corporate Financing Forum in Paris yesterday.  BP is a “very familiar name” with Chinese investors,
 Steve Wang , head of fixed-income research at Bank of China
Ltd.’s BOCI Securities unit, said in a phone interview from Hong
Kong. “The best bet for BP is to go into mainland China and do
yuan bonds there because the capacity there is much bigger.”  The British oil company is raising capital after an April
explosion at the Deepwater Horizon rig killed 11 workers and
triggered the worst U.S. oil spill. BP agreed to sell its 60
percent interest in Pan American Energy to Argentinean oil and
gas company Bridas Corp. last month for $7.06 billion, taking
asset sales this year to about $21 billion. It may sell North
Sea fields and infrastructure to raise a further $1 billion, a
person familiar with the matter said yesterday.  China’s interbank bond market expanded to 3.3 trillion yuan
($495 billion) in the year to Sept. 31 as the government sought
to wean borrowers off bank loans, according to market regulator
the  National Association of Financial Market Institutional
Investors , or NAFMII.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.’s China unit became the
first overseas company to sell local-currency notes in China
when it raised 1 billion yuan from variable-rate notes on May
17.  Yuan Bond Plans  VTB Group, Russia’s second-largest lender, is planning to
sell three-year bonds in yuan, a person with knowledge of the
deal said today. It will be the first in the currency by a
Russian issuer, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard Chartered Plc have said they
plan to issue yuan-denominated bonds in Shanghai as China’s bond
market develops. HSBC sold yuan-denominated bonds through its
China unit in Hong Kong last year, becoming the first foreign
bank to do so, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  BP, Britain’s  third biggest  company by market value, may
seek to raise at least $500 million in the Chinese currency,
according to BOCI’s Wang. At 3.3 billion yuan, a sale of that
size would be a challenge for Hong Kong’s fledgling market for
so-called dim sum bonds, he said.  Casino Bonds  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd., the casino operator part-
owned by Permira Advisers LLP, plans to sell 1 billion yuan of
bonds in Hong Kong,  Robert Drake , chief financial officer, said
in a phone interview on Dec. 6. Caterpillar Inc., the world’s
biggest maker of construction equipment, sold 1 billion yuan of
2 percent bonds in Hong Kong on Nov. 24, Bloomberg data show.  BP has issued bonds in the Japanese and Australian
currencies, the most recent being a A$325 million ($319 million)
offering of 6 percent five-year notes on March 3, according to
the data.  The company’s shares rose to the highest since May 28
yesterday, climbing as much as 2.4 percent to 461 pence in
London.  The stock  is still down 30 percent since the accident.  The cost of protecting the company’s debt using credit-
default swaps surged more than 13-fold in the wake of the crisis
and is now about twice as high as at the time of the explosion
at 95.5 basis points, according to CMA.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Martin  in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net 
 Henry Sanderson  in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  