-- Brazilian Central Bank Keeps Rate at 10.75% as Meirelles Leaves the Stage
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2010-12-08T22:19:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/brazil-keeps-rate-at-10-75-as-meirelles-leaves-any-increases-to-successor.html
Brazilian policy makers kept their
benchmark  overnight rate  unchanged today after curbs on credit
allowed central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  to leave
anticipated rate increases for his successor.  The policy committee voted unanimously, without a bias, to
keep the Selic rate unchanged at 10.75 percent for a third
straight meeting, matching the forecast of 48 of 51 analysts
 surveyed  by Bloomberg. Three economists forecast at least a
quarter-point increase.  The eight-member board, in a statement, said they faced a
“less favorable scenario” than in their last meeting. Still,
they judged it was “not opportune to re-evaluate the monetary
policy strategy” because “more time” is needed to gauge the
economic impact of the recent measures to slow credit growth.  Meirelles on Dec. 3 raised reserve and capital requirements
for banks as consumer prices and inflation expectations
accelerate in Latin America’s biggest economy, which is heading
for its fastest annual growth in over two decades. Traders are
betting the bank will raise borrowing costs by a half-point at
its next meeting in January, the first to be headed by  Alexandre Tombini , who is awaiting confirmation by the Senate.  “The measures allow them to postpone the decision a little
bit longer,” Jankiel Santos, chief economist at Espirito Santo
Investment Bank in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone interview.
Espirito Santo Investment “But it’s not going suffice for not
hiking interest rates.”  Analysts expect today’s rate pause to be the last before a
series of increases next year, beginning with a half-point
increase in January that would take the Selic to 11.25 percent,
the highest in almost two years, according to a weekly survey of
about 100 economists taken Dec. 3.  Tombini  A week earlier, economists were predicting that policy
makers would hold the rate at 10.75 percent at their Jan. 18-19
policy meeting.  The increase in reserve requirements for time deposits and
non-interest bearing accounts removed 61 billion reais ($38
billion) from the economy, according to the central bank.  Tombini, testifying before a Senate committee yesterday,
echoed Meirelles’ remarks that higher reserve levels would have
an impact on the economy, even though they aren’t a substitute
for traditional monetary policy tools.  Tombini, who has sat on the bank’s board since 2005, may
have his appointment confirmed by the full Senate as early as
today. Meirelles is Brazil’s longest-serving bank chief, having
cut inflation and interest rates by more than half since taking
office alongside President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva in 2003.  At his confirmation hearing yesterday, Tombini affirmed his
commitment to the country’s inflation-targeting system, and said
Brazil should try to lower its target from its current 4.5
percent, plus or minus 2 percentage points.  Real Rates  The country’s real interest rate, the highest in the Group
of 20 nations, is likely to continue on its long-term, declining
trend, he said. President-elect  Dilma Rousseff , who takes office
Jan. 1, pledged to give policy makers full autonomy to fight
inflation, he said.  “In the last few years, we brought inflation to a lower
and more stable level, and now we need to consolidate this
conquest,” Tombini told the committee, which voted 22 to 1 to
recommend his confirmation.  The world’s eighth-largest economy will grow 7.54 percent
this year, its fastest pace in more than two decades, according
to the most recent central bank survey.  Strong domestic demand and a record low 6.1 percent
unemployment rate will force the central bank to act to control
inflation as early as January, said  Marcelo Carvalho , head of
Latin American research at Banco BNP Paribas Brasil SA.  “The inflation picture is deteriorating quickly,”
Carvalho said in a report. “Timely policy action is key.
Without fiscal tightening, monetary policy needs to be used
sooner rather than later.”  Demand, Prices  Retail sales  grew 11.8 percent in the year through
September, the fastest pace since March. Carvalho expects
Tombini to raise rates 0.5 percentage point in January.  Consumer prices as measured by the benchmark IPCA index
rose 5.63 percent in the year through November. Prices rose 0.83
percent from October, the biggest increase since April 2005.
Inflation expectations for 2011 have accelerated to 5.2 percent,
from 4.8 percent in August, according to the bank survey.  Brazil’s real fell 0.5 percent to 1.6903 per U.S. dollar
today. The currency has gained 0.8 percent against the dollar
since the end of October, the second-best performer of 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the Taiwanese dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Bristow  in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  