-- Build America Bond Yields Climb to 11-Month High as U.S. Subsidy May End
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d   a n d   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-12-08T19:52:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/build-america-yields-climb-to-11-month-high-as-u-s-subsidy-set-to-expire.html
Build America Bond  yields  rose to the
highest in 11 months as the federal program subsidizing state
and local government borrowing costs is set to expire at year-
end unless lawmakers extend it.  The average yield on the taxable securities climbed to 6.35
percent yesterday, the most since Jan. 7, as investors demanded
a  larger premium  to buy the debt, according to a Wells Fargo
index. Signs that the global economic recovery is gathering pace
also pushed down Build America Bond prices, which move inversely
to yields, along with  U.S. Treasuries  and other fixed-income
markets.  “It’s uncertainty, the fact that people don’t know the
future of the program,” said  Christopher Mier , a municipal
strategist at Chicago-based Loop Capital Markets LLC, in an
interview at Bloomberg headquarters in New York today. Some
investors are saying they “may not participate in a market that
won’t exist in two weeks,” he said.  The  San Francisco Public Utilities Commission  today
postponed a $524 million debt sale, including $350 million in
Build Americas, after the surge in borrowing costs.  States and local governments are set to sell $4.3 billion
of the taxable securities this week, the fourth-highest since
borrowers began offering the debt in April 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The New Jersey Turnpike Authority
boosted its bond sale to $1.9 billion from $1.5 billion today,
Bloomberg data show.  Supply Concern  Some investors are concerned supply may increase ahead of
the program’s expiration, Mier said. The Pennsylvania Turnpike
Commission sold $600 million in Build Americas in August,
funding two years of projects in one issue, to take full
advantage of the federal subsidy while it lasts, Chief Financial
Officer  Nikolaus Grieshaber  said.  Borrowers have sold about $177 billion of Build America
Bonds since Congress created the program in the American
Recovery and Reinvestment Act last year to help repair the $2.8
trillion municipal market after the credit crisis. The Treasury
pays 35 percent of the interest cost on bonds for new public-
works projects if states and local governments sell taxable,
instead of tax-exempt, debt.  Left Out  President  Barack Obama  and congressional Republicans left
the program out of a tax deal they reached this week. An
extension was contained in a Democrat-backed tax-cut bill that
was defeated in the Senate over the weekend, and analysts
including those at  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  had previously expected
the program to be included in legislation continuing the Bush-
era tax cuts.  Senator  Max Baucus , the Montana Democrat who heads the
Finance Committee, said yesterday that the program is one of
several issues that are subject to further negotiation.  The jump in Build America yields comes amid a sell-off in
federal debt and tax-exempt munis, said  Cecilia Gondor , an
analyst at Thomas J. Herzfeld Advisors Inc. in Miami.  “Outside forces are putting pressure on municipal-bond
prices, and investors want to get out now rather than later,”
she said in a telephone interview. “Those outside forces are
the Build America Bond program possibly not being extended,
additional supply in the tax-exempt market and a rise in
interest rates.”  Exchange-Traded Funds  The  iShares S&P National AMT-Free Bond Fund , an exchange-
traded fund that seeks investment results that correspond to the
performance of the S&P Municipal Bond Index, lost as much as 1.4
percent today, touching $98.63, the lowest since March 18, 2009.
The fund was down 0.81 percent to $99.19 at 2:27 p.m. in New
York.  Prices of Treasuries dropped, pushing  yields  on 10-year
notes up the most over two days since September 2008, as signals
the global economic recovery is accelerating sapped demand for
the relative safety of U.S. government debt.  The 10-year Treasury note  yield  advanced 14 basis points,
or 0.14 percentage point, to 3.27 percent at 1:27 p.m. in New
York, according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 2.625
percent security maturing in November 2020 fell 1 3/32, or
$10.94 per $1,000 face amount, to 94 18/32.  Rates have jumped 36 basis points over two days, the most
since Sept. 19, 2008. Thirty-year yields climbed about 20 basis
points to 4.44 percent, the highest level since May 12.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net ;
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  