-- Irish Bonds Rise on Budget Vote; German Debt Falls as Auction Disappoints
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-12-08T16:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/bunds-decline-sending-10-year-yield-to-3-for-the-first-time-since-may-10.html
The extra yield investors demand to
hold Irish 10-year bonds instead of German bunds narrowed to the
least in a month after Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  won the
backing for lawmakers in an initial series of budget votes.  German 10-year bonds slid, sending the  yield  on Europe’s
benchmark government debt securities to more than 3 percent for
the first time since May, as Treasuries slumped amid increasing
optimism that global growth will be sustained. Two-year German
yields rose above 1 percent after investors bid for less than
the full amount of securities offered at an auction today.  Following the Irish vote, “we’ve seen a bit of a positive
reaction today; spreads are tighter,” said  Padhraic Garvey ,
head of developed-market debt strategy at ING Groep NV in
London. More generally, “the bond market is beginning to
discount some of the better economic news,” he said.  The 10-year Irish bond yield was little changed at 8.22
percent at 4:36 p.m. in London. The 5 percent security maturing
in October 2020 lost 0.04, or 40 euro cents per 1,000-euro
($1,322) face amount, to 78.79.  The 10-year bund yield rose seven basis points to 3.02,
after touching 3.03, the highest since May 4.  Lawmakers late yesterday passed an initial series of votes
on the 6 billion-euro Irish budget in parliament in Dublin.
Lenihan said the spending and tax plan for 2011 was the first
step to get Ireland “back firmly on our own feet.” The
government is under pressure to win approval for the austerity
plan to secure an 85 billion-euro bailout from the European
Union and the International Monetary Fund.  Peripheral Rally  Bonds from so-called peripheral nations rallied last week
as traders said the European Central Bank increased purchases of
government bonds. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on Dec.
2 that the central bank will maintain its bond-buying program
and continue to sterilize asset purchases.  The yield on 10-year Portuguese bonds was eight basis
points higher at 6.23 percent. Spanish bonds declined, with the
yield four basis points higher at 5.26 percent.  Similar-maturity Italian yields climbed three basis points
to 4.56 percent. Italy’s upper house of Parliament yesterday
passed the budget bill for 2011, paving the way for a confidence
vote next week on the government led by Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi .  The difference in yield between 10-year Irish bonds and
German bunds narrowed to 498 basis points, the least since
Nov. 4, according to Bloomberg generic data.  Bunds Under Pressure  “The latest periphery recovery will probably continue,”
 Michael Leister , a Dusseldorf, Germany-based fixed-income
analyst at WestLB AG, wrote in a research report today. “We
therefore expect bunds to remain under pressure.”  German two-year note yields jumped after the government
sold 4 billion euros of debt due in December 2012 today, less
than the maximum 5 billion euros on offer. It received bids for
4.58 billion euros. The notes were sold at an average yield of
0.92 percent.  “This is the third auction in a row going technically
uncovered for Germany,”  Chiara Cremonesi , a fixed-income
strategist at UniCredit SpA in London, wrote in an e-mailed
note. “At today’s auction, the unattractive level of the front
end of the German curve, coupled with the risk-on environment
over the last two days, have likely played a role in the weak
result.”  The two-year note yield rose 14 basis points to 1.01
percent, the biggest jump since May 10.  Global Recovery  The 10-year  Treasury yield  advanced 16 basis points to
3.29 percent after jumping 21 basis points yesterday, as
optimism that the global recovery is gathering pace sapped
demand for the safest fixed-income assets. Industrial production
in Germany rose almost three times as much as economists
forecast in October, data from the Economy Ministry showed
today. A separate report today showed that German exports
unexpectedly dropped the same month.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ended a trade recommendation to
buy five-year Treasuries against similar-maturity German debt
after the difference in yields between the securities narrowed.  The recommendation “was challenged by the steep selloff in
U.S. fixed-income yesterday, and as a result, the trade has
moved above the stop level for a potential loss of 16 basis
points,”  Mark Tan , an analyst in New York, wrote today in a
research note.  The difference in yield, or spread, between the government
notes narrowed to nine basis points from 12 points yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  