-- Business Confidence Gained in November on Job Growth, Household Sentiment
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2010-12-08T07:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/business-confidence-gained-in-november-on-job-growth-household-sentiment.html
French business confidence rose in
November as job creation and household sentiment suggested that
domestic demand will hold up in coming months.  The  Bank of France’s Business Sentiment Indicator  for
manufacturers increased to 107 from a revised 104 in October,
the central bank said in a statement today. Economists expected
a reading of 103, according to a Bloomberg survey. The central
bank had originally reported an October reading of 103.  The increase underlines a shift from export-led growth that
helped France pull out of recession last year to reviving
consumer demand. France posted its biggest drop in jobless
claims in more than two years in October and consumer sentiment
improved for a fourth month in November, signaling strength in
spending.  “The healthier job market outlook should benefit consumer
goods industries,” said Pierre-Olivier Beffy, chief economist
at Exane BNP Paribas in Paris.  The Bank of France also revised up its forecast for fourth-
quarter growth, saying the country’s economy is set to expand
0.6 percent in the final three months of the year instead of the
0.5 percent increase it was expecting a month ago.  “Industrial activity firmed overall” in November, the
central bank said. “The capacity-utilization rate rose
significantly,” order books expanded and “forecasts point to
further growth in output over the short term.”  ‘Ongoing Growth’  Sentiment in services rose to 98 from 96, according to the
survey. “Activity in services strengthened across the board and
especially in the temporary work sector,” the Bank of France
said. “Staff levels posted a further significant rise” and the
outlook “over the coming months points to ongoing growth.”  The number of unemployed actively looking for work in
France fell by 20,300, or 0.8 percent, the Labor and Finance
ministries said Nov. 26. The total number of jobseekers was 2.68
million. The decline was the biggest since February 2008, just
before France entered the recession, and reflects hiring this
year by companies from BNP Paribas SA to PSA Peugeot Citroen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Deen  in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  