-- Seidenberg Turns From Obama Critic to Advocate on Taxes, Trade
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-12-08T17:38:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/business-roundtable-urges-cuts-in-u-s-spending-revamped-taxes.html
Ivan Seidenberg , the  Verizon
Communications Inc . chief executive officer, turned from critic
to advocate for President  Barack Obama ’s policies after
administration deals this month on tax cuts and free trade.  Seidenberg issued a list of complaints against Obama and
Democrats in Washington six months ago, saying proposals to
raise corporate taxes and impose environmental regulations
threatened to undercut companies’ ability to expand and hire.  “The president has shown a willingness to learn,”
 Seidenberg , chairman of the Business Roundtable, the Washington
group that represents corporate CEOs, said today at a news
conference in Washington. “The things that occurred in the past
couple of days are extraordinary.”  Obama agreed with Republicans this week to extend tax cuts,
and he announced a deal with South Korea on Dec. 3 that would
allow a free-trade agreement between the two nations to proceed.
Preserving the decade-old tax rates and passing long-stalled
trade deals have been among demands of corporate advocates such
as the Business Roundtable.  Seidenberg’s group, representing CEOs from companies such
as JPMorgan & Chase Co. and  Exxon Mobil Corp ., released a
“ Roadmap for Growth ” today that called for changes to
corporate tax policy, a cut in spending and revisions in new
financial rules and health-care legislation. The group said it
shared Obama’s goal to retool the U.S. education system and
modernize the electricity grid.  Differences remain over Obama’s initiatives. The group said
290 environmental regulations being considered by the
administration would stifle economic growth. It called for
Congress to rescind a measure that would make it easier for
outside directors to get elected to corporate boards.  ‘Negative Consequences’  “Piecemeal policies to address specific issues in areas
such as energy, taxation or health care often have unintended
negative consequences for employers and the economy,” the group
said in its report.  Seidenberg said chief executives learn to “have a very
short memory” and he didn’t refer to the 54-page document the
group sent to the White House on June 21 listing administration
policies that it said were inhibiting economic growth.  The group complained in the document that Obama failed to
move on pending trade deals, and that he supported legislation
to raise taxes on companies’ overseas income and make it easier
for unions to organize. Obama now says he wants to get the
Korean trade deal approved by Congress, and neither of those
other two measures were passed by lawmakers.  “What we said before had its impact,” Seidenberg said
today. “We are at a moment now where we want to work with the
president and the new Congress to get the country on the right
track.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net  