-- California Budget Gap May Reach $28.1 Billion Over 18 Months, Brown Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M a r o i s
-- 2010-12-08T20:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/california-budget-gap-may-reach-28-1-billion-over-18-months-brown-says.html
California ’s budget gap may widen to
$28.1 billion over 18 months, according to Governor-elect  Jerry Brown , who takes charge of the most-populous U.S. state next
month. A cash shortage may force the use of IOUs by July,
Controller  John Chiang  said.  The deficit estimate takes into account a $2.7 billion drop
in projected estate-tax receipts, and compares with the most
recent forecast of a $25 billion gap for the period, Brown said
today at a public meeting of state officials. The cash accounts
may be short by $2.3 billion within eight months, Chiang said at
the meeting in Sacramento.  “I don’t want to say it, but this could mean IOUs and more
tax-refund deferrals,” Chiang said.  Chiang, who contemplated the use of warrants this year amid
a record 100-day budget impasse, issued $2.6 billion of the IOUs
to vendors in July 2009 while waiting for lawmakers to pass a
spending plan. Brown, a Democrat who takes office Jan. 3, faces
a widening gap after negotiators closed a $19 billion deficit
for the current fiscal year, which ends in June.  Chiang projected that the cash shortage will deepen to $3.5
billion in August and $4.6 billion by September. He said he’ll
have a better sense of the state’s cash position once Brown
proposes a budget, due next month.  ‘Serious’ Crisis  “California is facing a very serious budget crisis,”
Brown said. “This latest increase comes from actions that are
taking place in the Congress that will have an effect on
California.”  In an accord with Republican congressional leaders to
extend tax breaks enacted in 2001 and 2003, President  Barack Obama  proposed making the top estate-tax rate 35 percent. If
that rate goes into effect next year, it will be the lowest
since 1931, except for this year, when the levy was suspended.  The new estate-tax structure also would exclude the first
$10 million of a couple’s wealth. Current law sets the tax rate
at 55 percent next year, with an $8 million exemption per
couple. The lower rate would hold through 2012 under the tax
agreement negotiated in Washington.  Republican Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , who couldn’t
seek re-election because of term limits, and lawmakers closed
this year’s gap on Oct. 8.  Standard & Poor’s rates California general-obligation debt
A-, its fourth-lowest investment grade and lowest of any state.
Moody’s Investors Service gives it an A1, one step higher and
the same as it gives to  Illinois .  The extra yield investors demand above top-rated debt for
30-year general obligations from California issuers  reached  105
basis points yesterday, the most since the budget was enacted in
October, Bloomberg Fair Market Value data show. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  