-- Cameron to Ask U.K. Banks to Lend More to Military Personnel
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2010-12-08T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/cameron-to-ask-u-k-banks-to-lend-more-to-military-personnel.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  will ask
banks to look at ways of improving access to mortgages and loans
for British military personnel in an effort to increase home
ownership among members of the armed forces.  The Treasury will lead talks with leading banks, building
societies and mortgage brokers to find ways of expanding lending
to personnel whose credit rating has been lowered because of
their profession.  Hew Strachan , a professor of military history
at the University of Oxford, highlighted the issue in a report
commissioned by the government.  “It is important that service personnel are able to get
their foot on the housing ladder as the same way other people do
up and down the country,” Cameron said on a visit to
Afghanistan yesterday, during which he met British servicemen.
“I want to get to the root of these issues by making sure that
the inevitable disruption associated with military life does not
lead to greater problems.”  The step is part of a wider effort by Cameron to improve
conditions for the military through the Armed Forces Bill that
will be published in  Parliament  in London today. Cameron’s
spokesman,  Steve Field , said soldiers’ credit histories were
being hampered by them having to move frequently as they are
posted to different locations.  “A significant percentage can experience difficulties in
obtaining mortgages because they have poor or inadequate credit
history,” Strachan wrote in the report, which is scheduled to
be published today.  The Armed Forces Bill will also introduce a program to give
members of the armed forces better local support in the U.K.,
including free access to leisure services and sports facilities,
and extend a planned subsidy for schools in deprived areas,
known as the pupil premium, to the children of military
personnel.  The bill will also commit the government to publishing in
a report every year on what steps it is taking to improve
conditions for the military.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  