-- Canadian Dollar's Share of Russian Reserves May Reach 2%, Approaching Yen
-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2010-12-08T17:12:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/canadian-dollar-s-share-in-russian-reserves-may-reach-2-.html
The share of Canadian dollars in
Russia’s international reserves may rise to between 1 percent
and 2 percent, approaching the level of the Japanese yen,
central bank Chairman  Sergey Ignatiev  said today.  Ignatiev, who last month indicated Russia had begun buying
assets denominated in Canadian dollars, today said the central
bank doesn’t plan to add additional currencies after it expands
the stockpile to include Australian dollars. There probably
won’t be any “serious changes” in the structure of the world’s
third-biggest reserves in 2011, he told reporters in Moscow.  Russia’s reserves comprise 47 percent U.S. dollars, 41
percent euros, 10 percent British pounds, 2 percent Japanese yen
and a small amount in Swiss francs. The world’s largest energy
supplier is seeking to diversify the reserves as it promotes the
use of regional currencies in trade and finance to reduce risks
posed by the dominance of the  U.S. dollar .  Russia won’t begin to add the Australian dollar to its
reserves until the middle of next year,  Alexei Ulyukayev , first
deputy chairman of Russia’s central bank, said Dec. 1. The bank
will need at least six months to begin investing in assets
denominated in the Aussie after taking almost a year to add
Canadian dollars, he said.  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, came within less than a cent of
parity with the greenback today as it rose against most major
peers. The currency is benefiting from increased demand for
higher-yielding assets and raw materials. Commodities generate
about half of Canada’s export revenue.  Bank Rossii hasn’t discussed increasing its gold holdings,
Ignatiev said. Russia added about 4.4 million troy ounces of the
precious metal in the first 10 months of the year, boosting the
total to 24.9 million ounces, central bank data show.  Russia’s reserves declined by $14 billion last month to
$483.1 billion, paring this year’s increase to 10 percent, the
central bank said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 