-- Capital Shopping Snubs Simon Property's Request for Information to Aid Bid
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2010-12-08T16:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/capital-shopping-snubs-simon-property-s-request-for-information-to-aid-bid.html
Capital Shopping Centres Group Plc ,
the U.K.’s biggest shopping mall owner, refused to provide  Simon
Property Group Inc.  with information the U.S. company said it
needed to evaluate a possible takeover bid.  “CSC has not received any indicative offer from SPG,”
Capital Shopping said today in a statement. The board
“continues to believe that it is not appropriate to provide SPG
with the non-public due diligence information it has
requested.”  Simon , the biggest mall owner in the U.S., said today that
it will end its interest in buying Capital Shopping if its U.K.
counterpart doesn’t provide information needed for due diligence
ahead of any offer. Simon said last month that it was
considering an unspecified cash bid worth more than Capital
Shopping’s net assets.  Capital Shopping fell 5.3 percent in London trading, the
most since May 19. The shares dropped 21.8 pence to 386.2 pence,
reducing the company’s market value to almost 2.7 billion pounds
($4.3 billion). The stock traded at 337.4 pence the day before
Simon disclosed its interest in the company.  Capital Shopping  last month rejected a request from Simon
to delay selling shares and buying the Trafford Centre mall in
northwest England, a move that would have given the U.S. company
more time to prepare an offer.  Simon Exit  Simon may sell its stake in Capital Shopping if the
Trafford acquisition is approved, it said today in a separate
statement. The company owns 5.1  percent  of the London-based
company.  Capital Shopping agreed to buy the Trafford Centre from
closely held  Peel Group  for 1.6 billion pounds in stock and
assumed debt. The total purchase price would be the highest ever
paid for a single British property.  Simon, which has owned at least 3 percent of Capital
Shopping since August 2008, said the U.K. company is
“substantially overpaying” for the mall in a transaction that
would give Peel a stake of as much as 25 percent in Capital
Shopping. The deal would reduce the company’s cash flow by
almost 30 million pounds a year and make it more difficult to
pay dividends, the U.S. company said.  Simon was “disturbed and disappointed by the profound
value destruction proposed to be inflicted on CSC and its
shareholders,” it said. Investors are scheduled to vote on the
transaction on Dec. 20.  ‘Wrong-Footed’  “Simon looks distinctly wrong-footed, although some of its
arguments are fair,”  Daniel Horwood , an analyst at London-based
Liberum Capital Ltd., said in a note to clients today. “The
timing of a bid would be strategically wrong.”  The Trafford transaction is likely to be approved and the
bid premium will “evaporate” from CSC’s share price, said
Horwood, who has a “sell” rating on the stock.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Peter Woodifield  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 