-- Cephalon Buys Mesoblast Stake, Drug Rights in Potential $2 Billion Deal
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s   a n d   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2010-12-08T21:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/cephalon-buys-20-stake-in-mesoblast-rights-to-adult-stem-cell-therapies.html
Cephalon Inc.  took a 20 percent stake
in  Mesoblast Ltd.  and bought the rights to market the Australian
company’s adult stem-cell therapies for heart and nervous system
conditions in a deal potentially worth more than $2 billion.  Mesoblast  jumped  22 percent to a record A$4.05 in
Australian trading after Cephalon said it will pay $220 million
for the stake. Frazer, Pennsylvania-based Cephalon also will
give Mesoblast as much as $1.7 billion in milestone payments as
the therapies clear regulatory hurdles toward commercialization,
the companies said in a statement yesterday.  The agreement, the biggest so far in stem-cell therapies,
gives Cephalon potential new products to counter the loss of
revenue from Provigil, the sleep-disorder drug facing
competition from cheaper generic versions. The funds will help
Melbourne-based Mesoblast develop new stem-cell treatments for
diseases such as Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s, adding to ones for
heart-failure patients and bone-marrow donors.  “People have found that Mesoblast stem cells could be
useful in regrowing lost cells in the central nervous system,”
said  Stuart Roberts , a health-care analyst at Southern Cross
Equities Ltd. in Sydney. “There is a hint that you could use
stem cells in that area, and the payoff is outstanding if it
works.”  Roberts has  rated  Mesoblast “speculative buy” since at
least January, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stock Surges  Mesoblast, which began trading in December 2004, has
 tripled  this year. Cephalon fell $2.03, or 3.1 percent, to
$63.64 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite
trading for its biggest single-day decline in more than four
months.  The Australian company will initially receive $130 million
from Cephalon for the therapy rights, with $30 million of it due
upon approval of Mesoblast’s shareholders. It will pay for and
conduct some clinical trials while Cephalon will  fund  and
perform other later-stage tests, the companies said. Mesoblast
will hold the rights to manufacturing commercial supplies of the
stem-cell products to be marketed by Cephalon.  “This global licensing agreement positions Cephalon as a
leader in regenerative medicine while further strengthening our
late-stage pipeline with another innovative biologic platform,”
J.  Kevin Buchi , Cephalon’s chief operating officer, said in the
statement. Buchi also will join Mesoblast’s board of directors.  The Australian company, which is undertaking at least six
 human trials , will retain the rights to develop and market stem
cell treatments for diabetes, eye diseases and a number of
orthopedic, inflammatory and immunological conditions, according
to the statement.  Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. advised Cephalon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale at in Singapore
or  j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  