-- Cessna Targets Middle East for Business Jets on Interest in Egypt, Iraq
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2010-12-08T15:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/cessna-targets-middle-east-for-business-jets-on-interest-in-egypt-iraq.html
Cessna, the  Textron  Inc. unit that
makes the world’s fastest business jet, said the Middle East is
set to be among the first markets to recover as customers from
Iraq, Egypt and Saudi Arabia order more aircraft.  “Egypt has been one of the most successful markets overall
from a sales point, and we also expect more sales activity in
Saudi Arabia,” Trevor Esling, vice president for international
sales at Cessna, said at a press conference at the Middle East
Business Aviation air show in Dubai today. Oil companies based
in Iraq are also showing more interest, he said.  Bombardier Inc., maker of the Global 5000 and Global
Express XRS large business jet, also said today that the Middle
East is a “critical region,” and one where the effects of a
global economic downturn are relatively limited. The maker of
the Learjet this week opened a regional office in Dubai.  Optimism about sales in the Middle East comes as both
planemakers struggle with a slump in the wider market that’s
expected to last three years. Global deliveries will probably
fall to 675 to 700 planes in 2010, and stay below 700 next year,
down from 849 in 2009, according to a market survey by cockpit-
instrument maker Honeywell International Inc.  Cessna plans to eliminate 700 jobs, about 8 percent of its
workforce, as it pares production to match lower demand. Textron
Chief Executive Officer  Scott Donnelly  predicted in May that
earnings at Cessna, which has already cut its workforce by half
since 2008 to about 8,400, would bottom out this year.  Bombardier has also cut jobs at its aerospace division,
which builds regional planes, though the company has noted signs
of recovery.  Signs of Recovery  “If you look at where we are now and where we were last
year, there is definitely much more activity,” said  Bob Horner ,
senior vice president of sales for Bombardier’s business jet
division.  Bombardier’s been studying leading indicators including the
number of charter hours that are flown, how many used business
planes are being sold, he said, and the numbers all indicate
“that the market is definitely moving to a more positive place
and that’s been the case for several months now.”  Both planemakers are developing new models.  Cessna is developing the Citation Ten, which Esling said
will first fly late next year, with certification and delivery
due in 2013. The Citation Ten is a stretched version of the
Citation X model, the world’s fastest business jet.  The jet is 15 inches longer and will fly farther and carry
more weight than the $22 million, eight-seat Citation X. Cessna
 supplied  about 32 percent of Providence, Rhode Island-based
Textron’s revenue last year.  Orders Pending  Cessna has several orders pending for the aircraft, said
 Mark Paolucci , senior vice president for sales and marketing,
including one in the Middle East. Talks are continuing, he said.  Bombardier in October announced plans to offer two new
variants of its Global aircraft series that offer increased
range. The Global 700 will cover 7,300 nautical miles (8,200
miles) and the Global 8000, 7,900 nautical miles. Entry into
service for the two variants will begin 2016 and 2017.  The Canadian company today announced orders for five of its
midsize Learjet 85 and two large cabin Challenger 605 jets, all
from companies controlled by Jet Air Flug in Munich. The value
of the order is $155 million based on list prices, Bombardier
said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stefania Bianchi  in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net 
 Andrea Rothman  in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 