-- Cheniere Plans to Export U.S. Gas Into Caribbean Power Markets, CEO Says
-- B y   B e n   F a r e y
-- 2010-12-08T12:46:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/cheniere-plans-to-export-u-s-gas-into-caribbean-power-markets-ceo-says.html
Cheniere Energy Inc. , the Houston-
based liquefied natural gas terminal owner, said it plans to
sell shale gas in the Caribbean to cut the region’s dependence
on power generated from burning oil.  Jamaica, Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic are among
those that could save money by burning gas to generate
electricity instead of crude oil-based products such as fuel
oil,  Charif Souki , the company’s chief executive officer, said
in an interview in Barcelona last week.  Cheniere owns the Sabine Pass LNG terminal in Cameron
Parish, Louisiana. The company said in June that the plant might
become the first in the continental U.S. to export LNG, citing
increased domestic production from unconventional gas and
lagging demand. JPMorgan Chase & Co., which is boosting its LNG
trading in North America, said in August the country may see
more “development plans” for liquefaction facilities if low
prices boost export demand.  “At some point we’re going to become more active a little
bit further downstream,” Souki said. “I’m talking about
selling gas to some of these countries with a financial
partner,” he said, adding that the company has “an arrangement
with JPMorgan at the moment.”  Global electricity generation from burning oil products
equal as much as 50 billion cubic meters a year of potential gas
consumption, according to Souki.  Andrew Slocum, executive director of LNG marketing and
trading at JPMorgan’s global commodities unit, said last week in
Barcelona that he’d be surprised if his company didn’t announce
next year “something strategic and large in LNG.”  Physical Trading  JPMorgan’s commitment to LNG will focus on “physical
trading, marketing and hard assets,” Slocum said. It won’t
involve “upstream equity investment.”  The bank is now the second-biggest physical natural-gas
marketer in North America behind BP Plc after it completed the
purchase of the North American assets of RBS Sempra Commodities.  Cheniere’s Sabine Pass LNG terminal exported the first U.S.
cargo of liquid gas to the U.K. reloaded from storage tanks last
month. The shipment illustrates how the company’s business plan
has changed since North America’s need to import gas via ocean-
going tankers was negated by rising gas production from shale
rock and other so-called unconventional sources.  “If you’d asked me two years ago: ‘Are you going to be a
liquefier?’ I’d have said: ‘I’m not sure I understand your
question,’” Souki said.  Provisional Agreements  The first phase in the company’s plans to export gas from
as early as 2015 would include two liquefaction units with
capacity of approximately 1 billion cubic feet a day. As many as
four of the so-called trains to liquefy gas are planned,
amounting to as much as 16 million metric tons of LNG a year.  Three provisional agreements have already been signed with
Morgan Stanley, ENN Energy Trading Co. Ltd. of China and Gas
Natural SDG SA of Spain for import and export capacity at  Sabine
Pass , Souki said.  The company plans to have definitive agreements for the
first production train by April “subject only to a final
investment decision and permitting,” Souki said.  The impact on local gas prices will be “minimal” and
Souki said he doesn’t anticipate any serious political
opposition to exports from the U.S. Exports of 1 billion cubic
feet a day may create as many as 30,000 jobs, Souki said.  In a  submission  to the Department of Energy on Sept. 7,
Cheniere said 2 billion cubic feet a day of LNG exports may
increase gas prices by as much as 11 percent in 2015.  U.S. gas prices at Henry Hub in Louisiana have fallen 20
percent this year. Gas for January delivery rose 1.2 percent to
$4.446 a million British thermal units in New York trading today
as of 12:41 p.m. in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Farey in London at 
 bfarey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  