-- China's Stocks Fall on Concern About Rate Increases, Possible Property Tax
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-08T08:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/china-s-stocks-fluctuate-as-property-developers-drop-rail-shares-advance.html
China’s stocks  fell the most in a
week on speculation the government will increase interest rates
this weekend, boosting concern tightening measures will slow
corporate profit growth.  Industrial and Commercial Bank of  China Ltd.  and China
Construction Bank slid more than 1 percent after the government
moved forward the release of economic data including inflation
to Dec. 11 from next week.  China Vanke Co.  and  Gemdale Corp.  led
declines for real-estate developers after the China Securities
Journal reported Shanghai will be among the first cities to
undertake property tax trials.  “Investors will be very cautious before this weekend
pending the announcement of November inflation and a possible
interest-rate hike,” said Li Jun, a strategist at Central China
Securities Co. in Shanghai. “Uncertainty is about to peak and
this may drag the market down.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, slid 27.31, or 1 percent, to 2,848.55
at the 3 p.m. close, the most since Nov. 30.  The CSI 300 Index 
fell 0.9 percent to 3,171.88, led by financial companies.  China’s statistics bureau will release November economic
data on Dec. 11 at 10 a.m. local time, according to a  statement 
on its website today. The data, which includes consumer prices,
retail sales, fixed-asset investment and industrial output, was
originally scheduled to be released on Dec. 13.  The central bank may raise rates around the time set for
the release of November’s inflation data, the China Securities
Journal reported yesterday, citing Li Huiyong, an analyst at
Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co, who estimated consumer prices
may have risen 5.1 percent last month.  Rate ‘Window’  It is the second time in four months the bureau has changed
the publication date of its monthly economic figures. The bureau
said on Sept. 10 that its decision to bring forward the release
of August data to Saturday from Monday shouldn’t be “over
interpreted” after the move spurred speculation the central bank
was preparing to raise rates that weekend. The bank moved a
month later with a 25 basis point increase.  “This weekend is now regarded as a ‘window’ for China to
raise rates,” said Li. “Some investors may play safe before
the announcements.”  ICBC, the nation’s biggest lender, slid 1.4 percent to 4.25
yuan. China Construction Bank, the second largest lender,
dropped 1.2 percent to 4.77 yuan.  Benchmark  money-market rates  rose the most in more than a
week on speculation policy makers will boost rates for a second
time since October to help damp inflation. Consumer prices
gained 4.4 percent in October, the fastest pace in two years,
because of higher food costs.  The seven-day repurchase  rate , which measures lending costs
between banks, advanced 30 basis points to 2.5 percent,
according to the National Interbank Funding Center.  Property Tax  The  Shanghai gauge  has lost 9.8 percent since reaching an
almost seven-month high on Nov. 8 on concern that monetary
tightening will curb economic growth. The central bank last
month ordered banks to set aside larger reserves for the second
time in two weeks. The measure is down 12 percent this year,
Asia’s worst performer.  China Vanke, the biggest developer, lost 2 percent to 8.49
yuan. Gemdale retreated 1.8 percent to 5.91 yuan.  The property tax trial may start sometime between the
beginning of next year and the annual National People’s Congress
meetings held in March, the China Securities Journal reported,
citing Yang Hongxu, a researcher at E-House China R&D Institute.  PetroChina Co., the nation’s largest oil company, dropped
1.9 percent to 11.56 yuan.  Rail Stocks  Crude for January delivery lost as much as 1.2 percent to
$87.61 a barrel, in electronic trading on the New York
Mercantile Exchange. The contract was at $87.75 in Singapore.  China railway stocks  rallied  after the China Securities
Journal reported the government may invest 3 trillion yuan to 4
trillion yuan ($602 billion) in the industry as part of its
five-year plan for the period from 2011 through 2015. A draft of
the rail investment plan has already been completed, the
Beijing-based newspaper reported, citing an unidentified person.  China CNR Corp. and CSR Corp., the nation’s biggest railcar
makers, surged to the highest since their initial public
offerings. China CNR jumped 6 percent to 6.74 yuan, the highest
since December 2009. CSR Corp. gained 7 percent to 7.69 yuan,
its highest close since August 2008.  Future rally attempts for the Shanghai Composite may falter
after the benchmark gauge dropped below 3,000 last month, said
 Thomas Schroeder , managing director at Chart Partners.  ‘See Saw’  The Shanghai gauge gained 34 percent between this year’s
closing low on July 5 and high of 3,159.51 on Nov. 8, boosted by
expectations central banks around the world will inject more
cash into their economies. Since then, the index has lost 9.1
percent after the government intensified tightening.  “After the failed 3,000 breakout we have now declined back
to key support at 2,790, where trendline support and the 200-day
moving average coincide,” said Schroeder. The failure “does
increase odds that a future rally attempt will not only
disappoint but may very well turn south. See-saw swings above
and below key breakout points have a tendency to precede false
rally cycles.”  Chinese companies that are dependent on economic growth may
outperform the market next year as inflation will be “mild,”
valuations are “cheap” and the outlook for earnings is
“solid,” according to Morgan Stanley.  Investors should switch to so-called cyclical stocks, such
as banks, developers, steelmakers and energy producers, analysts
led by  Jerry Lou  wrote in a report today. The brokerage has an
“underweight” on consumer-related stocks because of “high”
valuations and earnings expectations.  -- Irene Shen . With assistance from  Zhang Shidong . Editor:  Allen Wan ,  Richard Frost   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Irene Shen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3049 or
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  