-- China Isn't Seeking to Replace U.S. as World Superpower, Dai Says in Essay
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-08T03:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/china-isn-t-seeking-to-replace-u-s-as-world-superpower-dai-says-in-essay.html
China isn’t seeking to replace the
U.S. as the dominant world power and wants peace and stability
in an increasingly interdependent “global village,” China’s
top foreign policy official said.  “The notion that China will overtake the U.S. and dominate
the world is a myth,” State Councilor  Dai Bingguo  said in an
 essay  dated Dec. 6 that was posted on the Chinese government’s
Web site. “Our fundamental policy and strategy is to not take
the lead and not seek hegemony.”  Dai said China isn’t trying to impose its own version of a
“Monroe Doctrine” in Asia, referring to a U.S. policy
introduced in 1823 that sought to keep European powers from
staking claims in the Western Hemisphere. China’s ties with
neighbors including Vietnam and Japan have been strained in the
past year over territorial disputes involving islands in the
South China Sea and East China Sea.  The U.S., Japan and South Korea have increasingly
criticized China’s foreign policy goals following the Nov. 23
North Korean shelling of a South Korean island that killed four
people. China is North Korea’s only ally and Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton , meeting with Japanese and South Korean
counterparts in Washington on Dec. 6, said China “has a special
role to play to shape North Korea’s behavior.”  Dai said joint military exercises conducted in the region
exhibited a “typical Cold War mentality.” The U.S. held naval
exercises with South Korea in the sea between Korea and China
last week and this week carried out naval exercises with Japan
and South Korea as an observer. The war games were not directed
“at any nation,” U.S. Lieutenant Colonel Kenneth Hoffman, an
Air Force spokesman, said in an e-mailed message earlier this
week.  “The international community should welcome and not be
afraid of China’s peaceful development, should help it rather
than hinder it, and should support it and not to contain it,”
Dai wrote.  -- Michael Forsythe . Editor: Patrick Harrington, John Brinsley  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Forsythe  in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  