-- China Hit With Tariffs After Tianjin Pipe Gets Subsidized Loans
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-08T17:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/china-hit-with-tariffs-from-u-s-after-tianjin-pipe-gets-subsidized-loans.html
Tianjin Pipe Corp.’s 850-acre campus
is unlike any other steel factory in the world. Ostriches,
spotted deer and peacocks roam the grounds amid willow trees,
bamboo bridges and Chinese pavilions. The plant has its own
light-rail stop and hotel.  Another feature -- the presence inside the fence of large
branch offices of  China ’s three biggest state-owned banks --
symbolizes the government financial support that puts Tianjin
Pipe at the center of a growing trade dispute, Bloomberg Markets
magazine reports in its January issue.  The U.S. International Trade Commission in October upheld
tariffs of 63 percent and higher on steel products from Tianjin
and other producers, finding that U.S. steelmakers are harmed by
subsidies the Chinese companies receive and by unfair pricing.  “While we say, ‘Let the markets work,’ China is building up
these national champions,” says Alan Price, a Washington lawyer
who has represented U.S.-based steelmakers in trade cases.  This battle over the government’s backing for its exporters
marks a further deterioration in Chinese-American relations,
already strained by charges and countercharges of currency
manipulation.  A review of bond prospectuses shows how Tianjin Pipe
benefits from close government ties. The company was insolvent a
decade ago. Its ownership fell entirely to four asset-management
companies set up by the central government to dispose of bad
debts owed to Industrial and Commercial  Bank of China ,  China
Construction Bank Corp. (601939) , Bank of China and  Agricultural Bank of
China , all of which are state-controlled.  Cheap Funding  The revival of Tianjin Pipe, based in the port city of
Tianjin in northeastern China, began after it was bought by the
local government in 2003. Since then, the company has thrived
with cheap funding from the banks, tapping capital at a rate
closer to that of a government entity than a commercial
borrower.  “The very existence of this company is due to massive
subsidies through state banks which will bail out state firms
favored by local and central governments endlessly,” says Victor Shih, a professor at  Northwestern University  in Evanston,  Illinois , who studies the Chinese financial system.  When Tianjin Pipe issued 3.48 percent one-year bonds in
July, China’s one-year benchmark bank lending rate was almost 2
percentage points higher, at 5.31 percent. The company’s funding
costs were closer to that of China’s Ministry of Railways, which
issued one-year bonds in July at 0.89 percentage points below
the rate on the Tianjin Pipe debt.  Tianjin’s Debt  Tianjin Pipe’s debt surged as China’s government directed
its state-owned banks to increase lending starting in late 2008
to combat the effects of the global economic slowdown. At the
end of March the company’s long-term debt stood 6.72 billion
yuan ($1 billion), up from 1.89 billion yuan at the end of 2008,
according to the company’s financial statements.  The profits of China’s government controlled companies
would be entirely wiped out if they paid market rates of
interest, according to a 2009  study  by the research institute of  Hong Kong ’s central bank.  Liu Yunsheng, the chairman of and Communist Party secretary
for Tianjin Pipe, who was  appointed  by the Tianjin government,
wasn’t available for an interview. The company declined to
answer faxed questions.  State-owned companies such as Tianjin Pipe fend for
themselves and are not aided by the state, Vice Commerce
Minister Chen Jian told reporters on Nov. 1. “The government
does not give any subsidies,” Chen said. “Maybe some people have
seen how Chinese enterprises are booming and they are feeling
confused.”  Tariffs and Retaliations    Michael Pettis , a finance professor at  Peking University 
and a former managing director at Bear Stearns Cos., says the
funding received by state-run companies such as Tianjin Pipe
allows them to undercut foreign rivals.  Trade complaints against China have surged since  Barack Obama  became president -- as have retaliatory steps by China.
The U.S. has slapped duties on Chinese-made tires, glossy paper
and aluminum products. China has put tariffs on poultry and
specialized steel.  State support for key companies is a policy that China
won’t easily abandon, says Price. “It’s a pattern we see to
varying degrees throughout Chinese industry,” he says.  In the case of Tianjin Pipe, whose exports to the U.S. have
plunged since the tariffs were imposed, China may have a
workaround. The company is set to begin construction next year
on a $1 billion steel pipe plant in south  Texas , near  Corpus
Christi , that is designed to produce 500,000 metric tons of pipe
from recycled steel scrap each year.  Texas Jobs  The  plant  will create 300 jobs in the first year it
operates and lead to a total of 600 jobs, says Josephine Miller,
executive director of the San Patricio County Economic
Development Corp. The company says the factory will have an
annual payroll of $18 million. In Texas, Tianjin Pipe is getting
a boost from government support of a different kind: State tax
breaks to offset the cost of pollution-control equipment and
property tax reductions.  The Tianjin investment “sounds strange, strange, strange,
but they have been selling pipe in the Houston area for 20
years,” Miller says in an interview. “If someone said they were
investing a billion dollars in your area, you would perk up.”  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robert Dieterich at 
 rdieterich@bloomberg.net ;  Bill Austin  at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  