-- China Eastern Sees Accord on Singapore Air, China Air Ventures This Month
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-08T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/china-eastern-expects-cargo-ventures-accord-this-month-after-acquisition.html
China Eastern Airlines Corp.  expects
to reach an agreement on combining air-cargo ventures this month
as it consolidates operations following the acquisition of
Shanghai Airlines Co.  “We want to come up with a plan to reorganize the cargo
stakes by the end of the year,”  Luo Zhuping , board secretary
for the Shanghai-based carrier, said by phone on Dec. 6,
declining to elaborate further on the talks. “Then, next year,
we can focus on streamlining the operations.”  China Eastern plans to combine its main freight business
with two other cargo carriers part-owned by Singapore Airlines
Ltd. and Taipei-based EVA Airways Corp. to better utilize
capacity. The move may also help China Eastern compete with an
Air China Ltd.-Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. cargo venture that is
set to begin operations in Shanghai around yearend.  China Eastern, the nation’s second-biggest carrier, was due
to receive its parent’s 51 percent stake in  Great Wall Airlines
Co.  this year, Chairman  Liu Shaoyong  said in March. Singapore
Air’s cargo unit owns 25 percent of Great Wall, while Temasek
Holdings Pte, a Singapore state-owned investment company, holds
the rest. China Eastern is already managing operations.  Singapore Air Cargo is involved in discussions about the
future of Great Wall, it said in an e-mailed response to
Bloomberg News questions, without elaboration.  EVA Air own 25 percent of a cargo venture with Shanghai Air.
The Taipei-based carrier hasn’t decided what to do with the
stake, said  Katherine Ko , a public-relations officer for parent
Evergreen Group.  China Eastern had a group fleet of 338 aircraft, including
320 passenger planes and 18 freighters, as of June 30, according
to its interim report. The carrier bought Shanghai Air in
January to boost its market share in China’s financial capital.  Cathay and affiliate Air China are setting up a cargo
venture in Shanghai as the global economic revival spurs demand
for shipments of consumer electronics and fresh foods.  International air-cargo traffic rose 24 percent worldwide
in the first 10 months of the year, according to the
International Air Transport Association.  -- Tian Ying  with assistance from  Chan Sue Ling  in Singapore and
 Yu-huay Sun  in Taiwan. Editors:  Dave McCombs ,  Neil Denslow   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7571 or
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  