-- China `See-Saw' Stocks Signal False Rally Will Falter: Technical Analysis
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-08T02:34:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/china-see-saw-stocks-signal-false-rally-will-falter-technical-analysis.html
Future rally attempts for the
 Shanghai Composite Index  may falter after the benchmark gauge
dropped below 3,000 last month, according to Chart Partners
Group Ltd.  “After the failed 3,000 breakout we have now declined back
to key support at 2,790, where trendline support and the 200-day
moving average coincide,” said  Thomas Schroeder , managing
director at Chart Partners in Bangkok. The failure “does
increase odds that a future rally attempt will not only
disappoint but may very well turn south. See-saw swings above
and below key breakout points have a tendency to precede false
rally cycles,'' he said.  The  Shanghai gauge  gained 34 percent between this year’s
closing low on July 5 and high of 3,159.51 on Nov. 8, boosted by
expectations central banks around the world will inject more
cash into their economies. Since then, the index has lost 9.1
percent to 2,870.35 after the government raised interest rates
for the first time in three years in October and twice ordered
banks to set aside larger reserves last month.  Schroeder, who predicted in October that the mid-year rally
might falter, said the index needs to “sustain action above”
3,000 to reach a “major pivot point” of 3,200. The measure may
advance to a “macro resistance point” of 3,500 if it stays
above 3,200, he wrote in an e-mailed response to questions by
Bloomberg News.  Copper prices will also determine whether China’s stocks
can resume a rally that drove the Shanghai Composite to a seven-
month high on Nov. 8, he said. The metal’s price rose to a
record in London and reached $4.11 a pound in New York, the
highest level since May 5, 2009. Higher prices underscore
economic expansion in China, the biggest consumer of the metal.  Copper is Key  “One important variable is copper and its ability to clear
the key $4.10 major top barrier, representing a bull/bear bias
for China,” Schroeder said.  The Shanghai measure has fallen 12 percent this year,
Asia’s worst performer, on concern that monetary tightening will
curb economic growth.  In technical analysis, investors study charts of trading
patterns and prices to predict changes in a security.  -- Allen Wan . Editors:  Reinie Booysen ,  Richard Frost   To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  