-- Citigroup Picks OneMain as New Name for CitiFinancial
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2010-12-08T21:42:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/citigroup-picks-onemain-as-name-for-consumer-loan-unit-in-step-toward-sale.html
Citigroup Inc.  picked OneMain
Financial as the new name for its CitiFinancial consumer-finance
business, under a plan to prepare the unit for sale and sever
its marketing ties to the parent company.  The new name is being announced to the Baltimore-based
unit’s 7,000 U.S. employees today, CitiFinancial Chief Executive
Officer  Mary McDowell  said in an interview. The company aims to
change the name on signs by July 2011 at the unit’s 1,300
branches.  “We’re located throughout the U.S., and we’re on a lot of
different Main Streets, but we really mean it to be a nod to one
main purpose for our customers,” McDowell said. “Hopefully
we’re their one main source for lending.” She declined to
disclose the cost of the rebranding.  Citigroup CEO  Vikram Pandit , 53, has been trying to sell
CitiFinancial since January 2009, one of more than two dozen
businesses tagged for disposal following the bank’s $45 billion
government bailout. Rival financial firms including  Wells Fargo
& Co . have shuttered similar non-bank consumer-finance networks
or sold them to cut losses.  CitiFinancial, which traces its roots to the founding in
1912 of Commercial Credit, lends “money for life’s
emergencies,” according to its website. Purposes include car
repairs, furniture purchases, vacations and medical bills as
well as debt-consolidation loans that can be used to pay off
credit cards and other bills. Customers tend to have difficulty
getting credit elsewhere, Pandit said in July.  Focusing on Sale  In June Citigroup said it would shift customers in need of
loan modifications to 182 “servicing centers,” under a plan to
turn continuing operations into a profitable business that would
be more appealing to buyers. The resulting relocation of
employees and transfer of 750,000 customer files disrupted
collections, causing CitiFinancial personal loans more than 90
days overdue to jump by $57 million.  With the file transfers and selection of a new name now
completed, “we really can focus our attention on potential sale
opportunities,” McDowell said today. “This will be a 2011
process.”  The new name is only for the CitiFinancial branches in the
U.S. that make new loans, McDowell said. The CitiFinancial
servicing centers for loans being modified may also get a new
name, she said.  “From a customer perspective, if you’re driving down the
road and you see both, we just would like to avoid future
confusion, and that’s the reason we would potentially look at
changing the name of the remaining service centers,” she said.  New Logo  A new logo features the OneMain name written in a
“friendly and approachable” font that’s “probably a little
less corporate than what you typically see at other financial
institutions,” McDowell said.  The new symbol consists of five red and blue houses
arranged with their rooftops pointing inward to form a white
star. The color scheme is “a modern and patriotic nod to the
American flag,” McDowell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bradley Keoun  in New York at 
 Bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 