-- Citigroup Leads Decline in U.S. Bank Swaps to Below Europe: Credit Markets
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-12-08T17:55:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/citigroup-leads-decline-in-u-s-bank-swaps-to-below-europe-credit-markets.html
U.S. bank bonds are about the  safest 
on record relative to debt from European financial institutions
as a growing economy allows Citigroup Inc. to wean itself off
government support and a fiscal crisis roils Europe.  The  average cost  of protecting the notes of the six biggest
U.S. banks including Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase & Co. against
default fell yesterday to 12.16 basis points below the Markit
iTraxx Financial Index of 25 European banks and insurers.
Credit-default swaps on U.S. banks were 341 basis points higher
than their European counterparts at the height of the credit
crisis in October 2008.  Derivatives traders are penalizing firms in Europe for the
bailout of Greece and Ireland while U.S. institutions are
benefiting from perceptions the  Federal Reserve  will succeed in
bolstering the economy and financial system. The Treasury
Department sold the last of its stock holdings in New York-based
Citigroup this week.  “The largest U.S. banks are outperforming European
banks,” said  Rajeev Shah , a credit strategist at BNP Paribas in
London. “The Citigroup unwind, although it does nothing to
strengthen the capital structure, is a sentiment booster and
should be viewed as positive for U.S. financials. European
financials still have the peripheral concerns.”  The U.S. has been winding down bank-bailout and emergency-
lending programs introduced at the height of the subprime-
mortgage crisis, making a profit of about $12 billion on the
Citigroup deal for taxpayers. In Europe, traders are betting
lenders will suffer losses on their government debt holdings as
the region’s budget deficit problems worsen.  Bond Spreads  Investors demand an extra 225 basis points, or 2.25
percentage points in yield to hold European bank bonds rather
than government debt, the same as for U.S. banks, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The spread on U.S. bank
notes was as much as 44 basis points wider than on their
European counterparts in October.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the yield premium on company
bonds worldwide fell 2 basis points to 173 basis points, after
reaching a 12-week high of 177 on Nov. 30, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s  Global Broad Market Corporate index shows.
Yields averaged 3.87 percent.  Kellogg Co., the largest U.S. maker of breakfast cereals,
plans to sell $1 billion of 10-year senior unsecured notes as
soon as today, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. Proceeds may be used for retirement contributions
and to repay short-term debt maturing through Dec. 13, the
Battle Creek, Michigan-based company said today in a regulatory
filing that didn’t specify the sale’s size, timing or maturity.  Default Swaps Fall  The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. fell for a sixth day, the longest streak of declines since
June. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 0.2 basis point to a
mid-price of 89.75 basis points as of 12:44 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The credit-swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, has declined
from 99.4 on Nov. 30. Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The divergence in U.S. and European bank credit-default
swaps mirrors the performance of each region’s economies. Growth
in the U.S. will likely be 2.5 percent next year, compared with
1.4 percent for the euro zone, according to the median estimate
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Bank Debt  The average cost of insuring Citigroup, JPMorgan, Bank of
America Corp., Wells Fargo & Co., Morgan Stanley and Goldman
Sachs dropped yesterday to 135.21 basis points from an 11-month
high of 198 on June 10, according to CMA. That compares with
147.37 basis points for Markit’s European financial index, which
includes swaps on Barclays Plc and Deutsche Bank AG.  U.S. bank debt is historically more expensive to insure
against default than European firms. The basket of credit-
default swaps on American lenders was 31 basis points higher
than the Europe index as recently as Oct. 14, CMA prices show.  “The view in the marketplace is that the de-leveraging
process is much further along in the U.S. financial system
versus Europe,” said  Jason Quinn , co-head of U.S. high-grade
trading at Barclays Capital in New York.  Moody’s Investors Service has raised the credit ratings of
37 investment-grade U.S. financial firms this quarter and cut
19, for an upgrade/downgrade ratio of 1.95, the highest since
the three months ended Sept. 30, 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. In Western Europe, Moody’s has boosted 5
firms this quarter and lowered 17.  Bailout Winding Down  The U.S. is winding down bank-bailout and emergency-lending
programs while trying to recoup the money it provided to bolster
companies from automaker General Motors Co. to insurer American
International Group Inc.  The Treasury still owns warrants on 465.1 million Citigroup
shares, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. holds $800
million of the bank’s trust-preferred securities on behalf of
the Treasury, according to a regulatory filing.  Citigroup may post an $11.7 billion profit this year,
according to the average estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, following two years of losses totaling $29 billion.
Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  said yesterday in a memo
to the bank’s employees that “all the elements are in place”
for sustained profitability at the third-largest U.S. lender.  Citigroup Swaps  Credit-default swaps on Citigroup debt fell to 142 basis
points yesterday, the lowest level in more than a month and down
from 238 in February, according to CMA. The contracts rose today
to 146.5.  Contracts on Bank of America dropped to 189 from a 17-month
high of 220 on Nov. 30. Those on Goldman Sachs tumbled to 127.2
basis points from this year’s peak of 228.5 in May, while
JPMorgan fell to 81.6 from 134.6 on June 9, according to CMA.
Swaps on Morgan Stanley plunged to 168.1 from 305.5 in June and
Wells Fargo dropped to 108.2 from 140.4 in the same period.  As the U.S. recovers, Europe’s deficit woes deepen. A
crisis in the Irish banking system prompted the government to
propose the most austere budget since World War II yesterday, a
week after the nation followed Greece in seeking an
international bailout.  European finance ministers ruled out immediate aid for
Portugal and Spain or an increase in the 750 billion-euro ($994
billion) crisis fund, even as investors bet they’ll be forced to
bail out more nations.  “You have a much more uncertain outlook with the European
countries,” said  Joel Levington , managing director of corporate
credit at Brookfield Investment Management Inc. in New York.
That risk will “flow through” to the banking system, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net ;
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  