-- Clegg Says U.K. Liberal Democrat Ministers Will Back Tuition-Fee Increase
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-12-08T09:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/clegg-says-u-k-liberal-democrat-ministers-will-back-tuition-fee-increase.html
U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg 
said all 17 ministers from his Liberal Democrat party will vote
for an increase in college tuition fees, minimizing the prospect
of a defeat for the government on the legislation.  The House of Commons votes tomorrow on plans to let
universities charge students as much as 9,000 pounds ($14,000) a
year for tuition, almost triple the current level. It’s one of
many measures being taken by Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
Conservative-led coalition to cut the  record budget deficit .
Cameron relies on Liberal Democrat support to get bills through
Parliament.  Clegg has spent weeks trying to reach an agreement with his
lawmakers on the legislation, which is being sponsored by
Liberal Democrat Business Secretary  Vince Cable . The Liberal
Democrats, including Clegg, pledged before the May 6 election to
vote against any increase in fees.  “Given that we have to walk through the fire, it would be
better to walk through the fire together,” Clegg said at a
meeting of Liberal Democrat lawmakers in London last night.  “Every single one will vote for this measure because it is
the best possible, the fairest possible measure to ensure we
have world-class universities in future and that youngsters from
whatever background can continue to go to university,” Clegg
told the BBC later.  Fly Back  The Conservatives have 305 lawmakers in the 650-member
House of Commons, while there are 57 Liberal Democrats. At least
two Tories have said they will oppose the government, the BBC
reported.  The Liberal Democrat energy secretary,  Chris Huhne , who’s
attending talks on global warming in Cancun, Mexico, told
reporters yesterday he would fly back to London if needed to
vote for the government.  The 253-strong opposition Labour Party, which first
introduced tuition fees while in government in 2004, will vote
against the change. Its new leader,  Ed Miliband , has advocated a
graduate tax, requiring some of his colleagues to perform their
own reverse of position.  Labour’s Treasury spokesman,  Alan Johnson , who as an
education minister steered the original fees legislation through
Parliament, advised Miliband in an  article in the Independent
newspaper  Sept. 26 to be “proud of our brave and correct
decision to introduce tuition fees.” He wrote in  today’s Times
newspaper  that he now opposes raising fees.  ‘Mass Lobby’  Students plan a day of marches and demonstrations across
the country today followed by a “mass lobby” of lawmakers
tomorrow against the increase. Previous marches turned violent.
On Nov. 10, activists among 50,000 protesters broke windows at
the 27-story complex in central London that houses the
headquarters of the Conservative Party. They also burned
effigies of Cameron and Clegg.  The University and College Union, which represents
lecturers, said in a  statement on its website  today that 38
percent of higher-education institutions in England are “at
risk” because of the funding cuts, meaning they might have to
merge or even close.  A  YouGov Plc poll  for the Sunday Times newspaper conducted
Dec. 3-5 showed support for the Liberal Democrats at 10 percent.
The party took 23 percent of the vote in the May 6 elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 