-- Clement Seeks Probe After `Disturbing' Statistics Canada Early Data Report
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-12-08T21:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/clement-orders-investigation-of-early-statistics-canada-release.html
Canadian Industry Minister  Tony Clement  ordered officials to investigate the early release of
market-moving indicators by  Statistics Canada , which had been
made available to distributors as much as 59 seconds before
their public release.  The federal agency, Canada’s primary source of economic
information, had allowed distributors to get information ahead
of the official release. The agency stopped the practice on Nov.
25 after being alerted to it by Bloomberg News.  “I pledge to you that I’ll be working with StatsCan to
review the situation and if there have been some errors made
they will be rectified,” Clement told reporters in Ottawa
yesterday. “If the report is true, it would be a disturbing
situation.”  The agency has a policy of providing equal access to all
users. It conducted investigations last year into reports that
some data may have been leaked, without finding anything wrong.
Halting the early release ensures paying clients can’t use the
information to unfairly profit from trades on currency, bond and
money markets.  Clement told reporters today he does not yet know exactly
how the investigation will proceed. “I do not have the details
yet,” he said in a conference call from Fort Worth, Texas.
“We’ll get back to you forthwith.”  In  a statement  yesterday, Statistics Canada said it had
found data had been made available “no more than” 59 seconds
in advance of the official release time, and said it will
continue to review computer access logs. The agency didn’t say
how long it had been providing the data early to distributors.  ‘Immediate Steps’  “Management took immediate steps to resolve this
situation,” according to the statement. “Data releases are now
all made available at the exact same time.”  The agency never sold information on the basis that the
general public wouldn’t have it or would get it later.
Distributors were originally allowed early access to give them
sufficient time to process the indicators in time for official
release. Improved technology eventually allowed the data to be
processed more rapidly.  “Agency management was unaware that files were being made
available to distributors seconds prior to the official release
time,” Peter Frayne, spokesman for the Ottawa-based agency,
said in an e-mailed statement on Dec. 3. “Upon learning of this
practice, agency management directed that it be stopped
immediately.”  ‘Lot of Money’  “We need to get to the bottom of this. You can make
millions of dollars in 59 seconds,”  Michael Ignatieff , the
leader of the main opposition Liberal Party, told reporters in
Ottawa today. “We’re very concerned about that. Somebody may
have made a lot of money.”  Statistics Canada has  agreements  with 10 distributors who
are licensed to disseminate its data, including Bloomberg L.P.,
the parent of Bloomberg News.  “These changes ensure that all users of Statistics Canada
data -- including distributors -- have access to the data at the
same time,” Frayne said.  In the statement to Bloomberg, Frayne said officials have
conducted a “preliminary examination” of access logs from
November. That investigation showed three distributors,
including Bloomberg, had access to the data “seconds” before
the release time. The agency didn’t say for how long the
practice had been going on. In an e-mailed statement today,
Frayne said Statistics Canada wouldn’t name the two other
distributors, citing agency policy.  Use for Trading  Investors use the information to trade bonds, stocks and
the currency, as well as to place bets on the path of monetary
policy. The Canadian dollar is the world’s seventh-most traded
currency, according to an April 2010  survey  by the Bank for
International Settlements, with daily turnover on trades against
the U.S. dollar averaging $182 billion.  “Some people with that privileged information have been
able to make a killing,”  Thomas Mulcair , spokesman on financial
matters for the opposition New Democratic Party, said in an
interview. “The government, in its own interest and in the
interests of all Canadians, has to get to the bottom of this.”  Statistics Canada disseminates data through its flagship
“The Daily”  publication . According to the agency’s website,
all information must remain confidential until released in the
publication to create “a level playing field that reinforces
the agency’s reputation for neutrality.”  Agency Mandate  The agency has a mandate to collect and analyze financial,
economic and social data and undertake a  census  of the
population every five years. As the country’s industry minister,
Clement is responsible for the agency.  Statistics Canada, which was formed in 1918 as the then-
Dominion Bureau of Statistics, releases social and economic
indicators through its Canadian Socio-economic Information
Management System database. The so-called Cansim database is
updated daily and contains more than 35 million series covering
national accounts, labor, manufacturing, trade and other data.  The agency’s 10 paying distributors are Bloomberg, the
Conference Board of Canada, EcoWin AB, Emerging Markets Economic
Data Ltd., FactSet Research Systems Inc., Global Insight
(Canada) Inc., Haver Analytics, Moody’s Economy.Com, Nomura
Research Institute Ltd. and Thomson Financial Investment
Management Group, according to Statistics Canada’s website.
Provincial statistics units also receive the data, Frayne said.  Currency Movements  Documents obtained by Bloomberg last year through freedom-
of-information laws show movements in the currency before jobs
and inflation reports in April and May of 2009 led traders to
suspect the figures had been leaked. Some traders expressed
their concerns to the Bank of Canada, the documents showed.  While finding no wrongdoing at the time, the statistics
agency tightened security measures. During the hour before
publication of most economic reports, Bloomberg News and other
services get advance copies in a press room at Statistics
Canada’s Ottawa headquarters, under condition the information
isn’t disseminated early. Other government departments receive
copies of the reports the day before.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 