-- Queensland Rain Depletes Coal Stocks, Slows Exports
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2010-12-08T05:32:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/coal-stockpiles-depleted-after-queensland-rain-macarthur-says.html
Heavy rain and flooding in Australia,
the world’s biggest exporter of coal, has depleted stockpiles at
mines and disrupted deliveries of the commodity to the Dalrymple
Bay export terminal at Hay Point port in Queensland state.  “It’s production issues that are slowing us down,”  Greg Smith , general manager of operations at Dalrymple Bay, said by
phone today. “We can’t get enough coal out of the mines and
into the ships.” There are about 450,000 metric tons at the
terminal, enough to fill four ships, Smith said.  Australia had its wettest September-to-November spring on
record, according to the Bureau of Meteorology. Stockpiles at
mines operated by  Macarthur Coal Ltd. , the world’s largest
producer of pulverized coal used in steelmaking, have been
exhausted, Chairman  Keith De Lacy  said on Bloomberg Television
today. Macarthur declared force majeure last week.  “It’s not just us of course, everybody has pretty well run
out of stockpiles,” De Lacy said. The Goonyella rail network
that transports coal from mines to Hay Point is “also in some
trouble because of the unseasonal and very heavy rain,” he
said.  Production has been disrupted at mines operated by
Macarthur, Aquila Resources Ltd., Vale SA and Xstrata Plc. They
have all declared force majeure, a legal clause invoked by
companies when they can’t meet obligations because of
circumstances beyond their control.  Rolleston Mine  Xstrata, the world’s largest exporter of power-station
coal, declared force majeure at its Rolleston mine for four
ships yet to arrive at port after “continued impacts of the
heavy rain upon QR and the rail system at Goonyella and
Blackwater,” Sydney-based spokesman  James Rickards  said
yesterday.  Rolleston, 275 kilometers (171 miles) west of the port of
Gladstone, is in Queensland’s Bowen Basin and has the capacity
to produce 5 million tons a year of power-station coal.  The Goonyella rail line, operated by  QR National Ltd. , is
the busiest coal network in Queensland.  Paul Cronin , a spokesman
for QR National, wasn’t immediately available for comment.  Fiona Martin , Melbourne-based spokeswoman for BHP Billiton
Ltd., declined to comment on the potential impact. BHP Billiton-
Mitsubishi Alliance, known as BMA, is the world’s biggest
exporter of coal for steelmaking and operates seven mines in the
Bowen Basin.  Marc Joshi , spokesman for Ensham Resources Pty, wasn’t
immediately available for comment. The company is a closely held
coal producer with an open-cut mine in the Bowen Basin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Canberra at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 