-- Cocoa Slides on Speculation Ivory Coast Exports to Continue; Coffee Drops
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-12-08T12:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/cocoa-slides-on-speculation-ivory-coast-exports-to-continue-coffee-drops.html
Cocoa fell from its highest price in
more than four months in New York on speculation exports from
Ivory Coast will continue amid unrest stemming from the disputed
outcome of a presidential election.  The vote, intended to unite the world’s biggest cocoa
producer, has turned into a standoff as incumbent Laurent Gbagbo
and challenger Alassane Ouattara both claim victory. Cargill
Inc., a cocoa shipper in the country, said this week the unrest
is causing “challenges both in terms of delivery of beans and
logistics on the ground.”  “In the past when there has been conflict in Ivory Coast,
the cocoa industry tends to make sure that shipments carry on,”
 Gary Mead , an analyst at VM Group in London, said today by
phone. “Until we have satisfactory resolution in Ivory Coast,
cocoa is going to be volatile.”  Cocoa for March delivery slid $46, or 1.5 percent, to
$3,038 a metric ton on ICE Futures U.S. in New York at 12:39
p.m. London time. Yesterday the price reached $3,140, the
highest level since Aug. 6, after surging 5 percent last week,
the most since the week ended July 16.  “There are two basic things in play moving the price,”
Mead said. “One is the likelihood of a large Ivory Coast main
crop, facing against complete political uncertainty, which most
people assume correctly will result in fresh rounds of civil
protest.”  Output Estimate  Cocoa production may exceed demand by 100,000 tons in the
current season as rainfall increases and West African
governments invest in the industry, the International Cocoa
Organization said Oct. 13. Global output of the beans will be
3.8 million tons, compared with demand of 3.7 million tons,
Executive Director Jean-Marc Anga said.  Work at some Ivory Coast processing plants slowed because
employees were sent home for their safety, according to
officials in the commercial capital of Abidjan who asked to
remain unidentified.  Archer Daniels Midland Co., which has a processing plant
and three storage facilities in Ivory Coast, said it “continues
to monitor the situation and its possible impact on our
operations” in a response to e-mailed questions.  A nighttime curfew was extended by a week, the country’s
Radiodiffusion Television Ivoirienne reported on its website
yesterday. The curfew is from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m., limiting
operations at ports.  Sugar Drops  Cocoa for March delivery lost 30 pounds, or 1.5 percent, to
2,008 pounds ($3,170) a ton on NYSE Liffe in London. The beans
have risen 13 percent from their 2010 low on Nov. 8 and last
week added 4.5 percent, the most since the week ended June 4.  Sugar fell after India, the world’s second-biggest
producer, said yesterday it’s “too early” to estimate the
output for the 2011-2012 season or formulate a proposal for
freeing exports of the sweetener.  “The market is still waiting for a clearer picture on
exports from India,”  Stefan Uhlenbrock , an analyst at F.O.
Licht in Ratzeburg, Germany, said by phone today. “As long as
there is no announcement, volatility in sugar can be expected to
persist.”  Raw sugar for March delivery slid for a third day,
declining 0.2 percent to 28.36 cents a pound in New York. White
sugar for March delivery dropped 0.9 percent to $725.80 a ton on
NYSE Liffe, heading for a second decline.  Arabica coffee for March delivery fell 1.1 percent to
$2.0555 a pound in New York. Robusta coffee for March delivery
lost 0.7 percent to $1,864 a ton on NYSE Liffe after yesterday’s
0.9 percent advance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  