-- Five Columbia Students Charged With Selling Drugs on Campus
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 2010-12-08T05:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/columbia-student-sold-drugs-to-pay-tuition-prosecutor-says.html
Five students at Columbia University
in New York were arrested and accused of selling drugs at
fraternity houses and other on-campus residences.  The indictment of the students and three other people
followed a five-month investigation called “Operation Ivy
League,” authorities said yesterday. Undercover officers spent
$11,000 in 31 purchases of drugs including cocaine, marijuana,
powdered MDMA or ecstasy, and LSD-laced Altoids mints and
Sweetarts candy, the New York City Police Department and Bridget
G. Brennan, a special narcotics prosecutor, said in a statement.  “The students arrested today supplied dangerous substances
to their friends and other students to turn a quick profit, but
subjected themselves to risks, of which they were either
ignorant or in denial,” Brennan said in yesterday’s statement.  The Columbia students were identified as Harrison David,
20; Chris Coles, 20; Adam Klein, 20; Jose Stephan Perez, 20; and
Michael Wymbs, 22. All of the students pleaded not guilty during
an initial appearance before judge Michael Sonberg yesterday.  Coles is from Philadelphia; David is from Wrentham,
Massachusetts; Klein is from Cloister, New Jersey; and Perez is
from Atlanta, said Kati Cornell, a spokeswoman for the special
narcotics office. The three people accused of being their
suppliers aren’t students.  William Novak, an assistant district attorney, said David,
a third-year engineering student, told investigators he used
drug proceeds to help cover tuition costs. Tuition is about
$41,600 for the 2010-11 academic year, according to the
university’s  website .  ‘Limited Financial Ability’  Perez, who wore a Columbia sweatshirt at his arraignment,
is a scholarship student with “limited financial ability,” and
his mother is a marine biologist with a modest income, his
attorney, Robert Weinstein, said in court yesterday.  Wymbs, a senior with a 3.5 grade point average, never had a
run-in with the law before yesterday’s arrest, said his
attorney,  Michael Bachner . He is applying to graduate schools
and hopes the arrest won’t derail those plans, Bachner said.  Wymbs was student council president and salutatorian in
high school and in the summer worked as a biostatician for a
cancer research program, Bachner said. His father, who was in
court yesterday, is a professor of international business in the
city and his mother is a partner at a law firm.  Most of the sales took place in common areas and bedrooms
at the Alpha Epsilon Pi, Pi Kappa Alpha and Psi Upsilon
fraternities, according to the statement. Coles and Wymbs
allegedly sold drugs from their rooms at the Intercultural House
and East Campus Housing.  Expulsion Possible  Students who violate the school’s prohibition on illicit
drugs may face disciplinary measures that can include expulsion,
according to the university’s  website .  “The alleged behavior of the students involved in this
incident goes against not only state and federal law, but also
university policy and the principles we have set -- and strive
together to maintain -- for our community,” Columbia told
students in a message yesterday, according to an e-mail from
school spokesman  Robert Hornsby . “Please rest assured we are
taking this matter very seriously.”  Columbia, founded in 1754, has about 25,000 students.
Graduates include President  Barack Obama  and  Warren Buffett , the
chairman and chief executive officer of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.,
who attended Columbia Business School. It is one of eight
private schools in the northeastern U.S. that make up the Ivy
League.  Alleged Suppliers  Alleged suppliers Miron Sarzynski, 23, and his girlfriend,
Megan Asper, 22, were arrested on Oct. 27 in the East Village
section of Manhattan, the statement said. Sarzynski allegedly
sold drugs to undercover officers seven times and made drugs at
his apartment on East Sixth Street.  Searches of the students’ rooms this morning yielded a
bottle of LSD, 50 capsules of MDMA, 15 Adderall pills, more than
half a pound of marijuana and about $2,000 in cash, the
statement said.  An October raid of Sarzynski’s apartment turned up two
dozen marijuana plants, equipment for growing marijuana, jars of
the drug DMT, a bottle of LSD, $1,200 cash and two air pistols.  Sarzynski is also charged with attempting to kidnap a pair
of rival cocaine traffickers who he thought stole money from
him, and trying to hire an undercover officer to help him,
according to the statement.  Kidnapping Plan  Sarzynski’s alleged plan was to kidnap the rival
traffickers with a stun gun, hold them for ransom and torture
them by giving them a heavy dose of LSD, the statement said. He
planned to kill them if they didn’t pay, and handed a vial of
LSD to the officer before his arrest.  A third alleged cocaine supplier, Roberto Lagares, 30, was
arrested Dec. 5 at the Kingsborough Houses, a New York City
Housing Authority Development in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section
of Brooklyn, according to the police statement.  Sarzynski and Asper were arraigned last month and are still
in custody, Cornell said. Lagares was arraigned yesterday. Bail
for the eight suspects was set between $10,000 and $250,000.  Psi Upsilon had no “official comment” on yesterday’s
events “but will continue to cooperate with the university to
‘get to the bottom of this.’” Paul Warren, president of Pi
Kappa Alpha, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment, and
Carlos Eduardo Rodriguez Castillo, president of Alpha Epsilon
Pi, declined to comment in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Dolmetsch  in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
 Karen Freifeld  in New York
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 