-- Congo Must Add Value to Its Natural Resources, President Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2010-12-08T16:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/congo-should-refine-and-process-more-raw-materials-president-kabila-says.html
Democratic Republic of Congo  needs to
change the way it exports natural resources if the country wants
to fight its way out of poverty, President  Joseph Kabila  said.  Miners should process minerals and other raw materials
within Congo, and the country should reduce its reliance on
small-scale and independent mining, Kabila, 39, said in his
annual state of the nation address to parliament in the capital,
Kinshasa, today.  “Economic rationale requires that from now on, we should
limit the export of raw minerals,” Kabila said. “Increasing
their value locally should become the rule,” and the same
principle should apply to timber and oil exports, he said.  Since taking over as Congo’s first democratically elected
president in 40 years in 2006, Kabila has struggled to get the
country back on its feet. Years of dictatorship and war
destroyed Congo’s infrastructure and paralyzed its economy.
According to the  United Nations Development Programme , Congo
ranked second to last in human development out of 169 countries
surveyed this year.  Still, Congo holds a third of the world’s cobalt reserves
and 4 percent of its copper. It is Africa’s largest producer of
tin ore and holds deposits of gold, coltan and diamonds and is
home to the second-largest tropical forest in the world. The
country is also exploring for oil.  Conflict  Continued conflict in the east has hampered investment by
major miners and oil companies, leaving the bulk of exploitation
to independent, or artisanal, operators, a practice Kabila wants
to change.  “After nearly 40 years of following a policy of artisanal
mining in which neither the country nor the diggers themselves
saw any visible dividend, it’s time to re-examine the wisdom of
that policy,” he said.  Industrial production of copper and cobalt has already
increased in Katanga province, Kabila said. Toronto-based  Banro
Corp. , Johannesburg-based  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. , and Jersey-
based Randgold Resources Ltd. have said they will begin gold
production in two other eastern provinces over the next three
years.  Kabila’s first five-year term ends in 2011. He called for
next year’s elections to be conducted with “respect for rules
of procedure and in the spirit of patriotism.”  In 2007, hundreds died in the streets of Kinshasa when
forces loyal to Kabila fought with supporters of his main rival,
former rebel leader Jean-Pierre Bemba. Bemba is on trial at the
International Criminal Court in The Hague for war crimes
committed in Central African Republic in 2002 and 2003.  Kabila’s main opponent will probably be  Etienne Tshisekedi ,
77, head of the Union for Democracy and Social Progress
party. Tshisekedi is scheduled to return to Kinshasa today after
a 3-year self-imposed exile in Belgium, according to the UDPS
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Kavanagh  in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 