-- Copper Trading in Shanghai May Reverse Drop on Bonded-Inventory Tax Waiver
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-08T08:18:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/copper-trading-in-shanghai-may-reverse-drop-on-bonded-inventory-tax-waiver.html
Copper trading volumes on the
Shanghai Futures Exchange, headed for the first decline in four
years, may recover now that commodities held in bonded warehouses 
are allowed to be delivered against futures positions, said Jia
Zheng, a trader at Soochow Futures Co.  “It’s a way to increase trading volumes and make it a
little cheaper for trading companies to do business,” said Jia
from Shanghai. Still, “as long as the material leaves the
warehouse, the value-added tax will still have to be paid.”  Copper in London soared to a record $9,044 a metric ton 
yesterday. Rising prices and increased margins have driven 
volumes down almost 40 percent this year in Shanghai. China
will waive a 17 percent value-added tax on commodities used
for delivery against exchange contracts within the bonded area
in Shanghai, the Ministry of Finance said yesterday.  “The new rule may attract more investment in the futures
market, but the likely beneficiaries are trading companies,”
Wang Zhouyi, deputy manager of research at China International
Futures (Shanghai), said. “Producers and end-users need the 
physical goods so they will have to pay the tax at some point.”  The tax waiver is part of a trial plan to make Shanghai
an international financial and shipping hub, the Ministry of
Finance said. The waiver went into effect on Dec. 1, the
statement said.  Importers previously had to pay the tax on goods before
delivering against futures contracts, according to Wang Fei, an
analyst at Haitong Futures Co.  Bonded Warehouses  Inventories of copper in Shanghai bonded warehouses were 
more than 300,000 metric tons last month, nearly three times the
amount in Shanghai Futures Exchange  warehouses , according to
traders and analysts. The so-called unreported stockpiles have
increased as rising prices discouraged purchases by Chinese
users, the world’s largest.  Copper for three-month delivery on the London Metal
Exchange has climbed 18 percent this year on expectations of 
increased demand in China. Futures fell as much as 2 percent 
to $8,705.50 a ton today and traded at $8,712.25 a ton by 3:08
p.m. Singapore time.  Trading volumes for copper in Shanghai have slipped 39
percent in the first 11 months, according to  exchange  data, and
are set for the first yearly drop since 2006. The exchanges 
trades copper, aluminum, zinc, steel-reinforcing bars, steel wire
rods, gold, fuel oil and rubber.  “Higher prices also deterred investors as smaller players
can’t make the margin,” said Li Ye, an analyst at Minmetals
Starfutures Co. The Shanghai bourse increased margins for copper
to 10 percent last month. Futures reached 70,150 yuan ($10,530)
a ton on Nov. 11, the highest level since March 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glenys Sim  in Singapore at 
 Gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  