-- Copper Declines on Concern China May Increase Borrowing Costs
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2010-12-08T10:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/copper-falls-from-record-price-on-concern-china-may-raise-interest-rates.html
Copper fell from a record price in
London on concern that interest rates may rise in China, the
world’s biggest consumer of the metal, potentially curbing
demand.  China’s government brought forward the release of November
economic data to Dec. 11, heightening speculation the central
bank will increase borrowing costs this weekend. Copper also
fell as renewed tensions on the Korean peninsula pulled equities
lower and helped the dollar to climb, making metals priced in
the currency more expensive in terms of other monies.  “A stronger dollar and weaker equities are hitting
metals,”  Marc Elliott , an analyst at Fairfax IS in London, said
by telephone. “Things are looking a bit bearish today.”  Copper for delivery in three months dropped $100, or 1.1
percent, to $8,780 a metric ton at 9:45 a.m. on the London Metal
Exchange. Prices reached a record $9,044 yesterday, climbing for
a sixth day. Copper for delivery in March fell 1 percent to
$4.01 a pound on the Comex in New York.  “Copper did hit a record, so there is also a bit of
profit-taking,” Elliott said.  China’s statistics bureau will release November figures on
inflation, retail sales, industrial output and fixed-asset
investments this week. Expectations of another interest-rate
increase have grown after the ruling Communist Party said Dec. 3
the country will shift to a “prudent” monetary policy next
year as the government seeks to combat accelerating inflation.  Artillery Fire  Yonhap News reported that North Korea fired artillery
shells near the disputed border on the peninsula, two weeks
after an attack on the South’s Yeonpyeong island killed four.  The  MSCI World Index  of shares fell as much as 0.6 percent
as the U.S. Dollar Index, a six-currency gauge of the
greenback’s strength, added as much as 0.7 percent. A stronger
dollar also saps demand for raw materials as an alternative
investment.  Copper also fell as unionized workers at Anglo American Plc
and Xstrata Plc’s Collahuasi venture in Chile were set to return
to work after voting to end a month-long strike at the world’s
third-largest copper mine. Prospects of an output cut helped to
lift copper last month.  The metal has gained 19 percent this year, helped by a 30
percent drop in London Metal Exchange stockpiles, which are on
course for the first annual decline since 2004. Today they
shrank to 350,250 tons as orders to draw copper from
inventories, or canceled warrants, fell 4.5 percent to 26,075
tons, according to daily exchange figures.  Copper Premium  Immediate-delivery LME copper’s premium to three-month
metal rose 14 percent to $34.50 a ton, rebounding from
yesterday’s drop of 34 percent. Prices moved on Nov. 8 to a so-
called backwardation, when nearby metal trades above longer-term
contracts, potentially signaling supply concern.  The fee to borrow copper for next-day delivery, the so-
called tom-next spread, was last at a discount of 60 cents,
compared with yesterday’s closing $3 discount. An increase in
the fee would indicate tightening supply.  Codelco, the world’s largest copper producer, expects
prices to average near $4 a pound next year as demand rises,
Chief Executive Officer Diego Hernandez said in an interview
yesterday. The copper market probably will be in deficit by
about half a million tons in 2011 as demand gains between 4
percent and 5 percent, he said.  Tin for three-month delivery on the LME rose 0.6 percent to
$25,350 a ton. Prices reached a record $27,500 on Nov. 9. The
metal has jumped 50 percent this year, leading advances on the
exchange, after production was disrupted in Indonesia and the
Democratic Republic of the Congo.  Aluminum declined 1.2 percent to $2,278 a ton and nickel
fell 1.4 percent to $23,750 a ton. Lead fell 2.5 percent to
$2,340 a ton and zinc dropped 3.1 percent to $2,233 a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 