-- Credit Ratings Can't Claim Free Speech in Law Giving New Risks
-- B y   J o h n   L i p p e r t
-- 2010-12-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/credit-ratings-can-t-claim-free-speech-in-law-bringing-risks-to-companies.html
When President  Barack Obama  signed
the Dodd-Frank financial reform bill on July 21, he capped a
year-long legislative battle to stop $1.8 trillion in global
financial writedowns and losses from happening again.  The law forces derivatives trading onto exchanges or
similar systems, creates a consumer-protection agency to monitor
loans and lets the government unwind companies whose collapse
would destabilize markets.  Obama didn’t mention one culprit in the financial debacle
during remarks at the Ronald Reagan Building in Washington that
day: credit ratings, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its
January issue. Before the crisis,  Moody’s Investors Service , a
unit of Moody’s Corp., had given AAA ratings to 42,625 mortgage-
backed securities, the same seal of approval U.S. Treasury bonds
get. Of those rated in 2006, 83 percent have been downgraded,
Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission Chairman  Phil Angelides 
says.  “The ratings provided little or no value,” he says.  Now, ratings companies face their own downgrade.  Largely overshadowed in the Dodd-Frank overhaul, 18 of the
848 pages  strike  at defenses that have allowed Moody’s,  Standard
& Poor’s  and  Fitch Ratings  to defeat every ratings lawsuit
they’ve faced. The bill says ratings aren’t protected by the
First Amendment as free speech or by securities laws that say
opinions can’t be wrong.  ‘Fundamentally Commercial’  “Activities of credit rating agencies are fundamentally
commercial in character and should be subject to the same
standards of liability and oversight as apply to auditors,
securities analysts and investment bankers,” the law says.  Dodd-Frank opens the doors to new entrants. It ends the
federal requirement that banks buy securities defined as
investment grade by just a handful of companies that the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission designates as qualified for
this purpose.  These 10 companies, including Fitch, Moody’s and S&P, are
called  Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations ,
or NRSROs. The law requires the SEC and other agencies to
develop new credit standards in two years. It also makes ratings
companies verify any outside data they use to arrive at their
decisions.  “The strongest piece of Dodd-Frank is the one-two punch at
ratings companies,” says  Frank Partnoy , a professor at the
University of San Diego School of Law and author of “The Match
King:  Ivar Kreuger , the Financial Genius Behind a Century of
Wall Street Scandals” (PublicAffairs, 2009).  First Amendment  “The bill makes it clear the First Amendment defense isn’t
going to work. It stops the government from saying investors
have to use these guys even when they’re wrong.”  Fitch, Moody’s and S&P control 97 percent of U.S. ratings,
which make up about half of the industry’s $6 billion in global
revenue, says analyst  Michael Meltz , who covers the industry for
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  They won’t know whether -- or how much -- the law will
loosen that grip until courts weigh in and the SEC and other
agencies write rules for implementing it. After Dodd-Frank
passed, 3,000 finance industry lobbyists left Capitol Hill and
descended on the SEC to try to beat back the reform, Angelides
says.  Yet the bill is already making the industry more cautious
and in some cases spurring the companies to turn away business
and raise prices.  “We expect a more rigid ratings process, tighter adherence
to stated policies and potential eschewing of rating very
complex structured-finance instruments,” Meltz says.  Transferring Risk  Moody’s has tried to transfer the increased cost and risk
to customers.  On July 19, four days after Congress passed the law,
Moody’s asked  Montgomery County , Maryland, to pay $98,400 to
rate a $325 million bond -- boosting the fee 61 percent from a
similar deal in 2009.  County Chief Administrative Officer  Tim Firestine  says
Moody’s wanted more money to pay another company to verify the
county’s projected tax revenue, one of Dodd-Frank’s
requirements. Verifiers can include accountants or finance
specialists. Faced with an increased risk of lawsuits, Moody’s
also asked the county for indemnification, or a promise not to
sue over bad ratings.  “My reaction to third-party verification was, ‘what am I
paying you for?’” Firestine says. “If they’ve got a monopoly
and I indemnify them, what value does their rating have
anyway?”  Scaling Back  In the end, Moody’s dropped its request for higher fees and
no lawsuits. Firestine says he doesn’t have a clue why. Moody’s
stopped seeking indemnification anywhere in the municipal bond
market in September after some issuers complained, spokesman
 Michael Adler  says. He declined to comment on Montgomery
County’s fees.  Harold McGraw , chief executive officer of S&P parent
McGraw-Hill Cos., told investors on Oct. 26 he’s raising prices
to help pay for increased regulatory requirements.  Fitch , a unit of Financiere Marc de Lacharriere SA in
Paris, is scaling back because some customers can’t supply the
information it needs under Dodd-Frank. It  stopped  grading
development bonds from port authorities in six Ohio cities in
August.  Chris Burnham , port director in  Summit County , says the
small firms that operate around the ports for whom he’s
guaranteeing bond payments don’t have the audited financial
statements Fitch demanded. S&P rated his bonds instead, he says.  New Entrants  The  National Association of Insurance Commissioners  is
finding alternatives to NRSROs. The association’s members
regulate how much capital insurers in 50 states must hold after
investing money customers pay as premiums.  The association hired  BlackRock Inc. , the world’s biggest
money manager, in September to help set capital requirements for
commercial-mortgage-backed securities. That means it’s using
BlackRock’s loss projections instead of NRSRO ratings. The NAIC
had already hired Pacific Investment Management Co. for
residential-mortgage-backed securities in 2009. The two monitor
$351.4 billion of the insurers’ assets.  “Ratings companies did not assess risk accurately in
2007,” Illinois Insurance Director  Michael McRaith  says.
“Their opinions can no longer be our sole criterion.”  Leaping Forward  After decades of being stifled by government policies
favoring NRSROs, competitors are leaping into the new landscape.  Jules Kroll , who gained fame in the 1980s by doing risk
consulting for Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.’s  Michael Milken  and
then by probing hidden assets of  Ferdinand Marcos  and  Saddam Hussein , started  Kroll  Bond Ratings Inc. in August.  “We thought ratings would be a very suitable use of our
fact-finding talent,” Kroll, 69, says.  Morningstar Inc . founder  Joe Mansueto , known for mutual-
fund rankings, began publishing credit ratings on U.S. companies
in December 2009. He expanded into mortgage-backed securities in
March, paying $52 million for  Realpoint  LLC, a 50-person firm
founded in 2001. Realpoint and Kroll have NRSRO status, so they
can rate new securities. Of 11 U.S. commercial-mortgage-backed-
security offerings issued during the first 10 months of 2010,
Realpoint was hired on four, the same number as S&P.  “This is ground zero of the credit crunch; how do you
analyze complex securities?” Mansueto, 54, says. “This is what
investors want solved.”  Foosball Table  Realpoint is tiny compared with the 1,250 credit analysts
at Moody’s and 1,309 at S&P. But it’s bustling. On a sun-
drenched morning in August, workers crowd into cubicles in a
cramped office in the Philadelphia suburb of Horsham. CEO  Rob Dobilas  had to move a foosball table into the lobby to free up
space.  Realpoint charges 225 institutional investors for what it
calls surveillance, or monthly ratings updates on every loan in
every CMBS. Some big customers pay more than $100,000 a year for
the service, which provides 90 percent of Realpoint’s income.
The rest comes from rating new securities. Because Realpoint
gets most of its money from surveillance, the firm is less
susceptible to the temptation to hand out high ratings on new
issues to win business, Dobilas says.  “The Realpoint model removes most of the conflict of
interest,” says  William McNabb , CEO of Vanguard Group, the
largest U.S. mutual-fund company by assets.  ‘Scale in the Business’  S&P President  Deven Sharma  says his company still enjoys
the size and reach key to serving customers.  “There is a scale in the business,” Sharma says. “We
have been investing over the last 150 years.” S&P is part of
McGraw-Hill’s  financial services  unit, which generated 70
percent of its parent’s $1.14 billion of operating income in the
first nine months of 2010.  Sitting in a conference room 37 floors above the East River
in Manhattan, Sharma, 55, says S&P failed to foresee the  drop  of
30 percent or more in U.S. housing prices in 2007. The lapse was
analytical, not ethical, he says.  “We’re very disappointed and embarrassed,” he says.  Before the financial crisis, S&P had made sure AAA-rated
securities could survive a 15 percent drop in the housing
market. Today, Sharma says, S&P ensures mortgage securities can
withstand the Great Depression’s 45 percent plunge.  S&P, Moody’s and Fitch are all fighting how Dodd-Frank
saddled them with the same liability that auditors and
investment bankers face as experts. The companies could lose
lawsuits when clients prove negligence or sloppy work, says
 Michael Perino , a securities law professor at St. John’s
University in New York.  ‘Arthur Andersen-Type Liability’  “This is Arthur Andersen-type liability; it can bring your
company down,” says  Catherine Odelbo , Morningstar’s president
of equity research, referring to the accounting firm that shut
down after being convicted of obstructing justice in an Enron
Corp. case in 2002.  Moody’s joined S&P, Fitch and Morningstar in July in
refusing to allow its ratings to be attached to registration
statements for asset-backed bonds. Dodd-Frank specified this
requirement for such bonds because of their central role in the
financial crisis. In general, the SEC regulates the content of
publicly available registration statements and the penalties for
inaccurate information, so investors know what they’re buying.  With ratings companies boycotting the statements in July,
the finance arm of  Ford Motor Co.  had to delay the sale of $1.39
billion in debt. To head off further turmoil, the SEC delayed
the imposition of “expert” liability until January, and then
announced an indefinite postponement.  U.S. Rep.  Spencer Bachus , an Alabama Republican who’s in
line to chair the House Financial Services Committee in January,
said in July that expert liability would  cripple  the flow of
credit.  Triggering Discovery  The law’s long-term implications may be determined by a
provision that makes it easier for clients to sue for federal
securities fraud. A key step for plaintiffs is to convince a
judge that their claim is serious enough to warrant discovery,
in which defendants turn over documents and testify under oath.
Most defendants settle if discovery is approved, Perino says.  Under Dodd-Frank, ratings companies can be subject to
discovery if plaintiffs can show with their initial pleading
that the companies knowingly or recklessly failed to conduct a
reasonable investigation or to verify data that customers
supply. Just a threat of discovery will force caution, says
Columbia University Law Professor  John Coffee , who helped draft
Dodd-Frank as an unpaid consultant to the Securities Law
Subcommittee of the U.S. Senate.  S&P spokesman  Chris Atkins  says lawsuits may become more
common but not easier to win. Plaintiffs still have to prove
companies knowingly or recklessly published a false rating, he
says.  Like a Newspaper  Even before Dodd-Frank, some judges were skeptical of
ratings companies’ First Amendment claims. Judge  Richard Kramer 
refused in May to dismiss a California Public Employees’
Retirement System lawsuit in San Francisco Superior Court.
Calpers, the largest U.S. public pension fund, had sued S&P,
Moody’s and Fitch in 2009 to recover $1 billion the fund lost
through what it called wildly inaccurate ratings.  Floyd Abrams , a partner at Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP in
New York, argued that ratings have the same First Amendment
protection as newspaper editorials. Kramer disagreed, saying
companies rate structured-investment vehicles to enrich
themselves, not to comment on public matters.  On Dec. 10, he was scheduled to hold a hearing on
additional motions to toss out the case.  Abu Dhabi Lawsuit  Plaintiffs made similar progress in September 2009. U.S.
District Judge  Shira Scheindlin  allowed a fraud claim against
Moody’s and S&P by Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC and King
County in Washington state to proceed in her New York court.
Investors from Australia, Bahrain, Bermuda, the Cayman Islands,
Germany and the U.S. joined the suit.  The case centers on an offering of as much as $23 billion
in highly rated bonds issued by Cheyne Finance Plc, a
structured-investment vehicle managed by London hedge fund
Cheyne Capital Management Ltd.  Scheindlin ruled that ratings companies’ compensation may
have influenced how they graded the bonds. Plaintiffs claimed
the ratings companies earned more as Cheyne’s sales rose. In
turn, Cheyne’s ability to sell the bonds hinged on high ratings.  Heart of the Crisis  Discovery involves millions of pages of documents --
similar to suits filed in Enron’s collapse, says  Daniel Drosman ,
an attorney at  Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd  LLP.  San Diego-based Robbins represented Enron shareholders who
settled claims for $7.2 billion. Lawyers are asking S&P and
Moody’s in the discovery to explain issues that go to the heart
of the credit crunch: how and why they gave investment-grade
ratings to bonds backed by subprime mortgages and derivatives
made up of bundles of the riskiest loans.  Fallout from the credit crisis still weighs on ratings
companies’ shares.  McGraw-Hill  climbed  from a recent low of $26.95 on June 2
to $35.91 on Dec. 7, leaving the stock down 51 percent from a
record high in June 2007. Moody’s rose to $26.72 on Dec. 7 from
$19.90 on June 2, 60 percent lower than in June 2007.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. CEO  Warren Buffett , Moody’s biggest
 investor , with a 12.1 percent stake, is pulling back. He went
from 48 million shares in June 2009 to 28.4 million as of Dec.
7. Buffett told Bloomberg Television in June 2010, “what was
once a bulletproof franchise may not be bulletproof.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Lippert  at   jlippert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net . 