-- Crude Oil Futures Tumble After Unexpected Increase in U.S. Fuel Supplies
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2010-12-08T21:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/crude-oil-fluctuates-on-projections-u-s-will-report-decline-in-stockpiles.html
Crude oil tumbled after an Energy
Department report showed unexpected increases in inventories of
gasoline and distillate fuels.  Oil slipped 0.5 percent after the department said  gasoline
supplies  rose 3.81 million barrels to 214 million last week.
They were forecast to fall 300,000 barrels, a Bloomberg News
survey showed. Supplies of  distillate fuels , including heating
oil and diesel, climbed 2.15 million barrels.  “The gains in gasoline and distillate supplies show that
there’s no problem with supply and that the demand picture isn’t
that strong,” said  Rick Mueller , director of oil markets at
Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield, Massachusetts.  Crude oil for January delivery decreased 41 cents to settle
at $88.28 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Futures
are up 22 percent from a year ago.  Brent crude oil for January settlement declined 62 cents,
or 0.7 percent, to end the session at $90.77 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Supplies of  distillate fuel  were projected to drop 900,000
barrels, according to the median of 17 analyst responses in the
Bloomberg survey.  Demand  for distillate fuel, averaged over the past four
weeks, fell 4.7 percent from a week ago to 3.73 million barrels
a day, the department said. Gasoline  consumption  edged 0.3
percent higher to 8.96 million barrels a day.  Inventories of  crude oil  fell 3.82 million barrels to 355.9
million, the department said. Supplies were forecast to decrease
by 1.4 million barrels.  “Traders know that crude oil inventories generally fall in
December, which mitigates against the big draw,” Mueller said.
“The crude numbers are being looked at as noise.”  Chinese Interest Rates  Oil also declined on signals that China, the world’s
biggest energy-consuming country, will raise interest rates.
China said it will release consumer-price-index data on Dec. 11,
two days earlier than planned, fanning speculation about an
increase.  The ruling Communist Party announced on Dec. 3 the country
will shift to a “prudent” monetary policy next year from a
“moderately loose” stance as the government seeks to combat
accelerating inflation.  “Traders are looking ahead at a possible rise in Chinese
interest rates,” said  Andre Julian , chief financial officer and
senior market strategist at OpVest Wealth Management in Irvine,
California. “If the rates are raised too much, it could have a
big impact on oil demand. This is a reason for OPEC to put off
making any changes at the upcoming meeting.”  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which
accounts for 40 percent of global supply, will maintain the
limits set in 2008 when representatives gather in Quito,
Ecuador, on Dec. 11, according to all but one of 39 analysts and
traders in a Bloomberg News survey.  Mexican Oil  Petroleos Mexicanos, the Mexican state oil company, may
boost Mexican oil output to 3 million barrels a day in 10 years
from 2.56 million after lifting a ban that forbids private oil
companies from drilling in the country,  Juan Jose Suarez Coppel ,
the company’s chief executive officer, said on CNBC.  Pemex will put private service contracts out for bids, pay
a percentage of production costs and Mexico will still own the
oil, he said.  Mexico was the  third-biggest source  of U.S. oil imports
during the first nine months of this year, according to the
Energy Department.  “The Mexican news is a very big deal,” said  Phil Flynn , a
Chicago-based analyst and trader with investment adviser
PFGBest. “Now they will have access to technology, which has
the potential to reverse the decline in production.”  Pemex is likely to post a seventh straight year of output
reductions in 2011. Production will probably average 2.55
million barrels a day next year, down from 2.58 million in 2010,
Mexican Energy Minister  Georgina Kessel  said today in an
interview.  Tax Cut Extension  Oil surged to $90.76 a barrel yesterday, the highest
intraday price since Oct. 8, 2008, after President  Barack Obama 
said that he’ll agree to a two-year extension of tax cuts.  “We’re under pressure because oil failed to decisively
break out above $90 yesterday,” said  Sean Brodrick , a natural
resource analyst with Weiss Research in Jupiter, Florida. “That
doesn’t change my view that we are moving higher and will reach
$105 at some point during the first half of next year.”  The tax deal could raise gross domestic product by as much
as half a percentage point to about 3.1 percent next year, said
 Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
New York.  Tom Porcelli , a senior economist at RBC Capital
Markets Corp. in New York, is increasing his growth forecast for
2011 by one point, also to 3.1 percent.  Oil volume on the Nymex was 683,773 contracts as of 3:12
p.m. in electronic trading in New York. Volume totaled 1.02
million contracts yesterday, the highest since Sept. 10 and 45
percent above the average of the past three months. Open
interest was 1.37 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 