-- New York's Cuomo Settles Pension Plan Probe of His Father's Former Aide
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-12-09T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/cuomo-wins-1-5-million-for-new-york-state-in-hevesi-retirement-fund-probe.html
Andrew Cuomo , New York’s attorney
general, reached an agreement in his pension-fund probe with a
one-time aide to his father and the state’s former three-term
governor,  Mario M. Cuomo .  The  agreement  with Albany, New York, attorney and lobbyist
Gerald A. “Jerry” Weiss was disclosed yesterday on the
attorney general’s official state  website  and in an e-mail.
Weiss, who had no securities license and wasn’t affiliated with
a broker-dealer, got $52,000 for introducing an investment firm
to the New York City Comptroller’s Office, according to the
agreement.  Andrew Cuomo, a Democrat who was elected New York’s
governor last month, also announced yesterday that he had
recouped $1.5 million for the state and its  Common Retirement
Fund  from a Dallas investment firm and from a lobbying firm led
by a Weiss partner, Patricia Lynch.  “Gifts, favors and campaign contributions are not a
legitimate basis for government contracts or special
treatment,” the attorney general said in a statement announcing
the accords with  Patricia Lynch Associates Inc.  and the Dallas
firm, Aldus Equity.  Weiss and Lynch are partners in another Albany lobbying
firm, LW Strategies LLC, according to an online New York City
 directory  of registered lobbyists.  Weiss is also a partner in the Syracuse, New York-based law
firm  Hiscock & Barclay LLP , which in July contributed $45,900 to
Andrew Cuomo’s gubernatorial campaign, according to New York
State Board of Elections on-line  data . The firm donated $10,000
to the campaign in January 2008.  A biography for Weiss on the Hiscock & Barclay  website 
shows he served as a deputy to Mario Cuomo, when he was New
York’s secretary of state, and later as counsel and a campaign
manager when Cuomo was running for lieutenant governor.  Terms ‘Consistent’  “The settlement terms regarding Mr. Weiss are consistent
with the agreements obtained from every other target of the
investigation,” said  John Milgrim , a spokesman for Cuomo, in a
phone interview yesterday.  Gabriel Nugent, a partner in the Hiscock & Barclay firm who
is identified in the settlement papers as counsel for Weiss,
declined to comment on the agreement or discuss the
contributions made to the Cuomo campaign.  Mario Cuomo didn’t immediately return a phone message left
at his home yesterday. Cuomo now holds a so-called of counsel
position at the law firm  Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP  in New
York. The firm’s clients include Bloomberg LP, the parent of
Bloomberg News.  Aldus Equity, a Dallas-based pension plan adviser, will pay
$1 million in restitution to New York’s Common Retirement Fund
for securities fraud by that firm’s principal  Saul Meyer , Andrew
Cuomo said in a statement. Aldus didn’t admit to any wrongdoing
in the agreement.  Meyer Guilty  Meyer last year pleaded guilty to criminal charges,
admitting he paid $300,000 to  Henry “Hank” Morris , who was an
adviser to former state comptroller  Alan Hevesi , to obtain the
pension fund’s investment business for his firm.  Cuomo also said the Patricia Lynch Associates firm will pay
the state $500,000 for misconduct including arranging campaign
contributions for Hevesi and finding a job for his daughter.  Hevesi, a Democrat, pleaded guilty in October to
participating in a pay-to-play scandal at the retirement fund,
the third-largest pension plan in the U.S., with a value last
month of $132.8 billion.  New York state Judge  Lewis Bart Stone  said Hevesi may be
sentenced to 1 1/3 years to four years in prison or as little as
no time at all. Sentencing is set for Dec. 16.  Morris’s Sentencing  Morris pleaded guilty to securities fraud before a state
judge in Manhattan on Nov. 22. He is scheduled to be sentenced
Feb. 1. Cuomo said Meyer is to be sentenced on Dec. 16.  Meyer’s lawyer,  Paul Shechtman  of New York, didn’t return a
call seeking comment on yesterday’s announcement. Warren Garden,
a Dallas attorney representing Aldus in a lawsuit filed by New
York Comptroller  Thomas P. DiNapoli , also didn’t respond to a
voice-mail message seeking comment.  Under the agreement with Cuomo, Lynch will be banned from
appearing before the state comptroller’s office for five years.  “We’re pleased to put this matter behind us,”  Darren Dopp , a Lynch firm partner and spokesman, said in a phone
interview.  Weiss didn’t admit any wrongdoing in his agreement with
Cuomo. According to the agreement, he and his lobbying firm
divided $104,000 in fees received from an investment firm which
got pension business from the New York City Police and Fire
pension funds.  Weiss’s Share  Under the agreement with Cuomo, Weiss agreed to surrender
his $52,000 share of the fees and to pay an additional $26,000
to the attorney general’s office.  Weiss held no securities license and wasn’t an affiliated
broker dealer when he agreed to lobby for GF Capital Private
Equity GP LLC with the comptroller’s office, according to the
Cuomo agreement. GF Capital was given $13 million in city police
and fire department pension monies to invest, according to the
agreement.  Steven M. Cohen, Andrew Cuomo’s chief of staff, signed the
agreement with Weiss.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 