-- Czech Yields to Hit Five-Month High at Bond Sale Today on Global Recovery
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2010-12-08T00:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/czech-yields-to-hit-five-month-high-at-bond-sale-today-on-global-recovery.html
The Czech Republic’s borrowing costs
may rise to the highest level since July at a bond sale today 
as speculation the economic recovery is gathering pace
reduces demand for the government’s debt.  The notes maturing in September 2015 are likely to be sold
at an average yield of about 2.95 percent, according to analysts
at  Komercni Banka AS  and Raiffeisenbank AS in Prague. That would
be the highest since July 14 when the yield reached 3.001
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The rate was 2.623
percent at the last auction of the same securities on Oct. 6.  Stocks and commodities rallied yesterday while German bunds
fell, lifting the 10-year  yield  to the highest since May, after
President  Barack Obama  agreed to extend U.S. tax cuts to aid the
recovery in the world’s biggest economy, overshadowing concern
that Europe’s debt crisis will spread. The cost to protect Czech
bonds against nonpayment is lower than for AAA rated France,
with the credit-default swaps for the eastern European nation at
87.6 basis points yesterday and France at 93.9, according to
CMA, a data provider.  “Yields on government bonds in Germany and the U.S. have
risen recently because of improved sentiment toward the global
economy,”  Michal Brozka , a fixed-income analyst at Raiffeisen
in Prague said in an e-mail.  The Czech government is seeking to raise 6 billion koruna
($321 million), according to an auction  prospectus  on the
central bank’s website. The first round of the auction ends at
noon in Prague.  A slump in the bonds yesterday lifted the yield to 2.94
percent, the highest level since July, according to prices from
Komercni Banka, the Czech unit of French lender  Societe Generale
SA . The average auction yield will be between 2.92 and 2.95
percent,  Dalimil Vyskovsky , a bond trader at Komercni said in a
phone interview yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  