-- Daimler Plans $78 Million Mercedes-Benz India Plant Expansion to Add Sales
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2010-12-08T09:12:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/daimler-plans-78-million-mercedes-benz-india-plant-expansion-to-add-sales.html
Daimler AG  plans to invest as much as
3.5 billion rupees ($78 million) to expand its India factory
that builds Mercedes-Benz cars as demand for luxury vehicles
gains in the nation.  The automaker is adding a second production shift starting
today at its Pune, western India facility to double the plant’s
capacity to 10,000 vehicles a year, said  Suhas Kadlaskar , the
local unit’s director of corporate affairs. Daimler will spend 2
billion rupees on a paint shop that will be ready in 2012, he
told reporters at the factory.  Daimler ,  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and Volkswagen AG’s
Audi division are seeking to tap rising demand for premium
brands in India, where economic growth and stock market gains
spur spending on luxury. The nation’s market for luxury goods
and services is projected to triple to $14.7 billion by 2015,
according to an October report by the Confederation of Indian
Industry and A.T. Kearney Inc.  The world’s second-largest luxury-vehicle maker expects
Mercedes-Benz sales in India to rival the U.K. within a decade
as rising wealth stokes demand,  Wilfried Aulbur , head of the
local unit, said in September.  Daimler’s passenger vehicle sales in India increased 79
percent from a year earlier to 3,827 units between April and
November, according to data compiled by the Society of Indian
Automobile Manufacturers. BMW’s sales rose 72 percent to 4,031
vehicles in the period, according to the industry group.  $6.4 Trillion  The combined net worth of India’s 100 wealthiest people
climbed to a record $300 billion this year, equivalent to about
a quarter of India’s gross domestic product, according to
Forbes. India’s wealthy may almost double their assets to $6.4
trillion over the next five years as economic growth swells
their ranks, Credit Suisse Group AG said in a report in October.  Tata Motors Ltd. , the owner of Jaguar Land Rover, will set
up 10 dealerships for the luxury car brands in India this fiscal
year and begin assembling the sport-utility vehicle models in
the country from the middle of next year.  India’s finance ministry yesterday raised its economic
growth forecast for the current financial year. The economy may
 expand  as much as 9.1 percent in the year ending March 31, the
ministry said in a report to parliament. It had projected a
growth rate of 8.25 percent to 8.75 percent in February.  The benchmark  Sensitive Index  of the Bombay Stock Exchange
gained 13 percent this year, the best performer among the
world’s 10 biggest stock markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 