-- Dark-Pool Trading Faces Stricter EU Disclosure Rules
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2010-12-08T17:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/dark-pool-traders-to-be-forced-to-disclose-more-information-under-eu-plan.html
The European Union plans to force
investors that trade stock in dark pools, or private venues that
don’t display prices in advance, to disclose more information
about their activities.  The European Commission  proposed placing transparency
requirements on the so-called dark pools to reduce threats to
financial stability. The EU measures are part of an overhaul of
the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, or Mifid.  “The world has changed,”  Michel Barnier , the EU’s
financial services chief, said in a statement today. The EU
needs rules that lead “to greater market transparency and
efficiency.”  Dark pools are being probed by regulators in both the EU
and U.S. because of concerns that their lack of transparency
increases price volatility. The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission proposed last year that dark pools should have to
publicly report some bids once they handle 0.25 percent of a
stock’s average daily volume. Such trading has also been
scrutinized by the  Committee of European Securities Regulators .  ‘Organized Trading’  The commission may require “organized trading” to be
subject to minimum requirements, including disclosure of the
kinds of trades that can be executed, and who is allowed to
participate. Waivers that allow investors not to disclose pre-
trade information on regulated exchanges should be “subject to
further clarification and in some cases restrictions,” the
commission said.  Executives from  NYSE Euronext  and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc .
have argued that unrestricted trading outside exchanges may hurt
the ability of markets to gather enough buy and sell demand to
produce fair prices. Brokers such as Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and ICAP Plc operate dark pools for their clients, as do
European bourses NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse AG.  A trade group that represents Goldman Sachs, UBS AG and
 Deutsche Bank AG   said “excessively intrusive regulation” can
harm investors.  “There is a trade-off between transparency and
efficiency,”  John Serocold , managing director of the
Association for Financial Markets in Europe, said in a telephone
interview. “We believe that the case has been made for the
retention of ‘dark’ trading -- providing flexibility to market
participants without jeopardizing overall transparency.”  The commission is seeking views on its plans until February
2011. Any final proposals would have to be approved by national
governments and the European Parliament to become law.  ‘Scandalous’ Speculation  The EU should follow U.S. authorities by allowing
regulators to limit the positions that traders take in
agricultural and other commodity derivatives, Barnier said.
Action was necessitated by “scandalous” speculation that had
pushed up food prices, Barnier said.  “I don’t think there is any reason why us Europeans should
be less rigorous than the Americans,” he said. “I’m resolved
something needs to be done.”  The revamped law should also set limits on the number of
orders that high-frequency traders can place, and require such
traders to tell regulators how their computer algorithms work,
the EU said. The plans would shed light on the bond and
derivatives markets, requiring the publication of post-trade
data.  ‘Significant Costs’  The revision of Mifid will force every broker to take on
“significant costs” to “revisit policies, revisit documents
with clients,” Damian Carolan, a partner at Allen & Overy LLP,
said in a telephone interview. “Costs inevitably lead a broker
either to move out of certain markets, or to pass the costs
on.”  The British Bankers’ Association said in an e-mailed
statement that it was “studying the document intently” given
“the breadth of changes it could potentially lead to.”  The commission also announced a related initiative to
increase penalties against financial crime. It said that
consideration should be given to the setting of minimum jail
terms and other criminal sanctions throughout the EU.  “If a financial institution does not abide by EU rules in
the area of financial services, traders and executives must
realize that they won’t get away with it,” Barnier said. “Now,
too often, that is not the case.”  Administrative fines available to regulators can vary from
less than 150,000 euros ($235,000) to millions of euros, Barnier
said. He said the 17.5 million pound ($23.2 million) fine handed
down by the U.K. Financial Services Authority in September to
Goldman Sachs was an example of “tough” enforcement.  “It feels to me to be a fairly intrusive approach,” Allen
& Overy’s Carolan said. “There are good practical and policy
reasons why the EU should not be stepping into this space.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Brunsden  in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  