-- Dell Names Philips CEO Gerard Kleisterlee to Board
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2010-12-08T22:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/dell-names-gerard-kleisterlee-to-board-of-directors.html
Dell Inc. , the world’s third-largest
personal-computer maker, named Royal Philips Electronics NV
Chief Executive Officer  Gerard Kleisterlee  to its board, gaining
experience in the electronics industry and European business.  Kleisterlee, 64, will join the board immediately, Round
Rock, Texas-based Dell said today in a statement. In another
change,  Alex Mandl  will become independent presiding director.
He replaces  Sam Nunn , a former senator from Georgia, who will
retire from the board in July.  Dell is trying to regain standing in the PC market after
falling behind both  Hewlett-Packard Co.  and Acer Inc. in recent
years. It’s also expanding into new businesses, such as
smartphones and tablets. As head of Philips, Europe’s biggest
maker of consumer electronics, Kleisterlee will provide help in
building relationships with customers, CEO Michael Dell said.  “I’ve been impressed with his track record of listening
closely to customers to deliver meaningful solutions in health
care, lifestyle and consumer products,” Dell said in the
statement. “Careful listening and customer-centricity are core
to Dell’s strategy, and we look forward to Gerard’s
contributions as part of the Dell team.”  The German-born Kleisterlee rose to the position of CEO
after decades at Amsterdam-based Philips -- a career that
included stints in the company’s Asian and health-care
divisions. He went to school at the Eindhoven Technical
University in the Netherlands and has an electronic engineering
degree.  Dell rose 8 cents to $13.68 today in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading. The  shares  have declined 4.7 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nick Turner  in San Francisco at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  