-- Democrats Urge Senate Leaders to Add Build Americas to Tax Deal
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 2010-12-08T21:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/democrats-urge-senate-leaders-to-add-build-america-program-to-tax-accord.html
Democratic senators are urging the
chamber’s leaders to continue the Build America Bond program as
part of legislation enacting the agreement that President Barack
Obama struck to extend the 2001 and 2003 income-tax cuts.  The federally subsidized initiative, which pays 35 percent
of the interest on state and local government bonds sold for
public-works projects, wasn’t included in the deal that the
White House brokered with Republicans. It is among the issues
embroiled in negotiations over the compromise, which also
included a payroll tax cut and aid for the unemployed.  At least nine Democratic senators led by Oregon’s  Ron Wyden 
pressed Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  to keep the bonds available, saying they boost the
economy by funneling money to construction jobs, according to a
letter they signed yesterday.  “We urge that you include an extension of this important
program as part of any tax-cut compromise,” the senators wrote.  The omission from the agreement set back efforts to prolong
the program, which is to expire at year-end. The uncertainty has
weighed on the $2.8 trillion municipal bond market: Local
officials are rushing to borrow money before the subsidy ends,
and investors express concerns that a finale could flood the
market with traditional tax-exempt bonds next year.  “People don’t know the future of the program,” said  Chris Mier , municipal strategist for Loop Capital Markets LLC. “Some
investors are saying ‘I may not participate in a market that
won’t exist in two weeks.’”  Rising Yields  The average yield on the taxable securities climbed to 6.35
percent yesterday, the most since Jan. 7, as investors demanded
a larger premium to buy the debt, according to a Wells Fargo
index. Signs that the global economic recovery is gathering pace
also pushed down Build America Bond prices, which move inversely
to yields, along with U.S. Treasuries and other fixed-income
markets.  More than $177 billion of the securities have been sold
since April 2009, making them the fastest-growing segment of the
municipal market, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Because they carry taxable rates comparable to corporate debt,
state and local issuers have marketed Build America securities
to pension funds, offshore investors and others who don’t
typically buy municipal securities. That has curbed the supply
of tax-exempt bonds and buoyed prices.  Scant Chatter  Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana
Democrat, yesterday said Build Americas are among issues left to
be worked out by Congressional negotiators.  Amendments that Democrats are discussing include changes to
the estate tax and the inclusion of breaks for clean-energy
producers, Connecticut Senator  Joe Lieberman , an independent,
said in a Capitol interview. Build America Bonds are rarely
mentioned, he said. “I didn’t hear much talk about that.”  Obama supports the bonds, White House economic adviser
 Lawrence Summers  told reporters at the White House today.  “The president believes that Build America Bonds have made
a very important contribution to spurring the various kinds of
construction at the state and local levels, to strengthening of
capital markets that he’d like to see,” Summers said. “He’d
like to see them go forward.”  Republican Critics  With Republicans poised to take control of the House of
Representatives in January, local governments, banks and other
advocates are pressing to have the program extended in the
current so-called lame-duck session.  Republicans -- including U.S. Representative  David Camp  of
Michigan, who is in line to become chairman of the tax-writing
Ways and Means Committee -- have criticized spending under
Obama’s $814 billion stimulus package, which created the bond
subsidies. Democrats, who now control the House, have passed
measures to prolong the Build America program, only to see the
bills stall in the Senate.  Republican Senator  Jon Kyl , the party’s second-ranking
leader in the chamber, is among those who have looked askance at
Build America Bonds, saying that they encourage the most
fiscally stressed states to borrow.  Reid told reporters today that he expects the tax bill to
be voted upon within days. He declined to comment on changes
that may be made to win over reluctant Democrats.  Senator  Barbara Boxer  of California, who signed the letter,
said in an interview at the Capitol that she’s pressing for the
measure to include more job-creating initiatives, while
declining to comment on the nature of negotiations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Schmidt  in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  