-- House Democrats Balk at Second-Lowest Rate for U.S. Estate Tax in 80 Years
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r
-- 2010-12-08T05:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/democrats-balk-at-second-lowest-u-s-estate-tax-in-80-years.html
Senate Republicans won one of their
top priorities in tax-cut negotiations with President  Barack Obama  by securing what would be the second-lowest U.S. estate
tax in 80 years.  That victory has now become a focal point for House
Democrats, who are venting over what they say is a poor deal
that gives a disproportionate amount of benefits to the very
rich while padding deficits. House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  of
California described the estate tax plan yesterday as “a bridge
too far,” and one of her lieutenants, Maryland Representative
 Chris Van Hollen , called it a “huge bonanza.”  “The estate tax has really put people over the edge,”
said Representative  Allyson Schwartz , a Pennsylvania Democrat
and a member of the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee.
Democrats as diverse as  Earl Pomeroy  of North Dakota, a member
of the fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition, and  Earl Blumenauer  of Oregon, who belongs to the Congressional
Progressive Caucus, cited the estate tax as a factor in their
decisions to oppose Obama’s proposal.  Republican negotiators pushed for a top estate tax rate of
35 percent during the talks, a senior administration official
said. Obama agreed to that rate as part of his tax cut plan,
which would also allow the first $5 million of an individual’s
estate to be passed on to heirs tax-free. Couples would receive
a $10 million allowance.  ‘More Generous Treatment’  “Republicans have asked for more generous treatment of the
estate tax than I think is wise or warranted,” Obama said Dec.
6 in announcing a compromise framework that would extend the
soon-to-expire 2001 and 2003 tax cuts and reduce payroll taxes
by 2 percentage points next year. He said he was compelled to
accept the lower rate in order to secure an extension of the tax
cuts for middle-income Americans.  Except for this year, during which the estate tax is
temporarily eliminated, the 35 percent rate and $10 million
exemption would be the lowest tax burden applied to large
estates since 1931, when the top rate was 20 percent.  If enacted, the estate tax would be 20 percentage points
less than the 55 percent rate set to prevail in 2011 under
current law, and the exemption is $8 million larger per couple.
Under the plan, the 35 percent rate would be in place for two
years.  Victory for Kyl  The estate tax deal represents a victory for Senator  Jon Kyl , an Arizona Republican who has spent three years lobbying
for the policy. Kyl’s effort, co-sponsored by Senator  Blanche Lincoln , an Arkansas Democrat, was joined in the last year by
business groups such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the
National Federation of Independent Businesses. They supported
the effort after concluding that repeal wasn’t possible.  “A $5 million exemption and 35 percent rate will provide
much-needed estate tax relief until full repeal becomes
possible,” the  Family Business Estate Tax Coalition , an
umbrella organization of trade groups, said in a statement
yesterday.  Many details of the agreement still must be negotiated,
including whether to apply the estate tax retroactively for
2010. In the absence of that tax this year, a complicated
capital gains tax treatment for inherited estates took its
place. Some might choose to file an estate tax return for 2010
under the new rules to obtain more preferable tax treatment.  Few Estates Affected  According to the Congressional Research Service, the Kyl-
Lincoln approach would subject just 0.14 percent of U.S. estates
to a tax and would generate $11.2 billion in revenue next year.
By contrast, the 55 percent top rate, with a $1-million-per-
person exclusion, would affect 1.76 percent of estates and would
generate $34.4 billion in revenue, the CRS said.  Obama had previously backed, and House Democrats in 2009
passed, a 45 percent rate and a $3.5 million tax-free allowance.
If applied for 2011, those parameters would subject 0.25 percent
of U.S. estates to a tax and would generate $18.1 billion in
revenue next year, the CRS said.  The new plan angered an advocacy group, the  American Family
Business Institute , which was formed to lobby for a permanent
repeal of the levy. It was funded in part by families who would
be subject to the tax.  “Hopefully Congress will have the courage to do the right
thing and permanently repeal the death tax,” said Dick Patten,
the group’s president.  Meanwhile, Chuck Marr, director of federal tax policy at
the liberal-leaning  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities , said
the issue for Pelosi and other Democrats is whether policies
they support -- such as an extension of unemployment benefits --
are enough to offset their disappointment over the estate tax.  “A new estate tax cut windfall for the wealthiest trust-
fund kids is hard to fathom,” Marr said. “Still, this
framework extends unemployment insurance, the child tax credit,
and effectively expands the Obama working- and middle-class tax
cut. That’s good news for these families and the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  