-- Diamond Fund to Turn `Talismans of Magic' Into Commodity Assets
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l   a n d   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-12-08T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/diamond-fund-seeks-to-turn-talismans-of-magic-into-commodity-investments.html
Former Rapaport Group executives are
creating a fund that’s looking to transform diamonds from the
“talismans of magic” advertised by De Beers into commodity
investments like copper and soybeans.  The precedents aren’t good. Diamond Circle Capital Plc, the
first publicly listed fund to invest in the stones, has  plunged 
49 percent since selling shares in 2008, compared with a drop of
14 percent in an index of  overall prices  for the gems. The first
diamond investment trust, set up in the 1980s, also collapsed.  Saul Singer , co-founder of Fusion Alternatives and a former
research chief at Rapaport, the world’s main provider of diamond
prices, says conditions are right for his firm’s new fund. He
sees bottled-up demand from investors, locked out of a trade
that sells diamonds through a closed network of dealers or in
retailers. Prices have risen 11 percent in 2010, trailing gains
in platinum, silver and gold.  “There is increased demand and increased interest from the
investment community in diamonds,” Singer, 36, said in an
interview. “The main goal is to put all the pieces together to
create a marketable investment vehicle for the professional
investment community.”  Fusion’s  10-person team also includes Adam Schulman, former
head of business development and marketing at Rapaport, and
Raphael Bitterman, who ran international trading and compliance
at the group. New York-based Rapaport has more than 10,000
 clients  in 70 countries.  Riding a Wave  Underpinning Fusion’s plans is a steady decline in output
of the rough diamonds that are fashioned into cut gems, and
anticipation demand will outstrip supply. Diamond production
slid 8.5 percent to 161.1 million carats in 2008 from 2005, RBC
Capital Markets says, before slumping 30 percent last year as
consumption tumbled following the world financial crisis.  Even before the collapse, output in Botswana, the biggest
source, fell for three straight years through 2008, and in
Australia production slid by more than half, RBC says.  Shrinking output also underscores diamonds’ potential to
ride a wave of surging prices of commodities such as gold and
silver as central banks  print money  to buoy stagnant economies.  The U.S. and European banks’ so-called quantitative easing
debases their currencies and risks inflation, fueling investor
demand for assets other than cash. “Savvy investors” may buy
diamond funds to protect against losses on cash holdings, said
Russell Mehta, chief operating officer of Rosy Blue (India) Pvt.
Ltd., a unit of the world’s biggest manufacturer of cut stones.  ‘Crazy Prices’  “Whether it’s the guy on the street, an investment banker
or a client of a bank, they’re all asking us, ‘How do we get
into diamonds?,’” said  Heno Kruger , head trader at Namakwa
Diamonds Ltd., which owns mines in South Africa, Namibia and the
Democratic Republic of Congo. “There’s a lot of talk about
diamonds. They’re fetching crazy prices.”  Fusion faces skepticism from a trading community that
Singer recognizes is “very closed, self-centric and complex,”
and where reputation is paramount.  Antwerp’s  diamond district  covers about a square mile of
real estate containing more than 1,800 trading businesses that
handle 80 percent of the world’s rough stones sold each year and
half of the polished gems. The Antwerp Diamond Bourse has been
in operation since 1904, according to the exchange’s  website .  “We do not want to undermine the emotional and symbolic
value of the diamond,” said Caroline Germain, a spokeswoman for
the Antwerp World Diamond Centre, representing the industry in
Belgium. “Diamonds should remain something magical, mystical,
something that you buy and has value for eternity.”  ‘Magic, Passion, Success’  Others in the industry are concerned the allure of the
stones as luxury items, from the crown jewels worn by Queen
Elizabeth II to the gems owned by Hollywood’s  Elizabeth Taylor ,
will be undermined if they trade like any other commodity.  “Diamonds are purchased for emotions,” said Varda Shine,
chief executive officer of Diamond Trading Co. International,
the rough-diamond distribution arm of De Beers, the second-
biggest producer. “We don’t think that diamonds being treated
as an investment in the same way as gold is, is the answer.”  De Beers, in its bridal  brochure , describes diamonds as
“talismans of magic, passion and success,” citing the precious
stones given by actor  Richard Burton  to Taylor and by Archduke
Maximilian of Austria to Marie de Bourgogne in the 15th century.  Overall cut-diamond prices have climbed 14 percent since
 polishedprices.com  supplied data from the start of 2002,
compared with a threefold gain in platinum, fivefold in gold and
almost sixfold in silver.  Jewelers’ Loop  Part of the challenge of investing in diamonds is their
worth varies depending on color, quality, cut and size, and the
expert with jewelers’ loupe in hand defines that value. Prices
for a  3-carat  internally flawless and colorless diamond are up
78 percent in 2010, while those for similar  1-carat  gems rose 10
percent, according to polishedprices.com figures.  “I don’t want to call a diamond a commodity, because it’s
not,” Namakwa’s Kruger said. “As much as the investment
community discusses the issue of commoditizing diamonds, those
discussions are nowhere close to being solved. Things are done
on a handshake and my word is my honor.”  The first diamond investment trust, set up by Thomson
McKinnon Securities Inc. in the 1980s, was wound up after a
slump in the market, according to reports by the New York Times
and Reuters.  Fusion anticipates by investing in sufficient quantities of
1-to-4 carat diamonds of near-uniform quality, more easily
valued than larger stones, it can avoid the pitfalls of erratic
pricing.  Small Carat, Big Stick  A round polished 4-carat stone may fetch about $120,000,
compared with the minimum $1 million gems bought by Diamond
Circle when it sought to lure investors to the first publicly
listed diamond fund. Diamond Circle Chairman Rupert Cottrell
declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News.  “If there was a diamond fund that I trusted, I personally
would be very happy putting some money in it,” said  Charles Wyndham , founder of WWW International Diamond Consultants Ltd.
and former director of De Beers’ sales operation. “There aren’t
two cocoa beans that are the same. Diamonds like everything else
create problems, and problems are there to be solved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Biesheuvel  in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net .
 Madelene Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  