-- Dollar Nears 10-Week High Versus Yen Amid Higher U.S. Yields; Kiwi Weakens
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2010-12-09T00:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/dollar-rises-near-10-week-high-versus-yen-amid-higher-u-s-yields-growth.html
The dollar traded near the highest
level in 10 weeks against the yen as rising Treasury yields and
signs of improvement in the world’s biggest economy supported
demand for assets denominated in the greenback.  The  dollar  maintained yesterday’s gains versus a basket of
major currencies before reports that economists said will show
U.S. initial jobless claims fell and consumer confidence grew.
The yen stayed weaker against most of its major counterparts as
stocks climbed and commodities rose. New Zealand’s dollar traded
near its lowest in a week after its central bank said rates will
rise to a “more limited extent” over the next two years.  “A rise in growth expectations has boosted bond yields,”
said  Hitoshi Asaoka , senior strategist at Mizuho Trust & Banking
Co. in Tokyo, a unit of Japan’s second-largest bank. “That led
to gains in the dollar. This buying trend will continue for a
while, but it’s too optimistic to think yields will stay high.”  The dollar traded at 84.10 yen at 9:11 a.m. in Tokyo from
84.04 yen in New York yesterday. It reached 84.41 yen on Nov. 29,
the highest since Sept. 27. The U.S. currency was at $1.3247 per
euro from $1.3262. The yen was at 111.41 per euro from 111.45,
following a 0.7 percent drop yesterday.  Movement in the yen was limited after a Cabinet Office
report today showed  Japan’s economy grew at an annualized 4.5
percent rate in the third quarter, faster than the 3.9 percent
pace reported last month.  Higher Yields  The  Dollar Index,  which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, rose 0.2 percent
yesterday, gaining for a third day. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index
of regional shares rose 0.4 percent. The Reuters/Jefferies CRB
Index of raw materials gained 0.4 percent yesterday.  Treasury 10-year yields gained 14 basis points, or 0.14
percentage points, to 3.27 percent yesterday, according to
BGCantor Market Data. Government bonds tumbled after U.S.
President  Barack Obama  this week agreed to extend tax reductions
for two years and a payroll-tax cut.  “There’s no meaningful attempt in the medium-term for
fiscal consolidation, and I think that’s the reason why the bond
market is taking flight here,” said Ray Attrill, head of macro
strategy in Sydney at Tallship Investments, a currency fund
manager. “The dollar will continue to strengthen.”  The premium offered by 10-year government bonds in the U.S.
over Japan widened to about 2.04 percent yesterday, the most
since June, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The dollar has advanced 2.4 percent during the past month
in a measure of the currencies of 10 developed nations,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.
The euro has dropped 2 percent. The yen is down 0.9 percent.  Jobless Claims  U.S. initial jobless claims declined to 425,000 last week
from 436,000 the previous week, according to the median estimate
of economists in a Bloomberg News survey before today’s data.
The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary consumer
sentiment index rose to 72.5 this month from 71.6 in November,
according to another Bloomberg survey before tomorrow’s data.  Demand for the New Zealand dollar was limited after Reserve
Bank Governor  Alan Bollard  kept the benchmark rate unchanged at
3 percent and said it was “prudent” to keep the official cash
rate low until the recovery strengthens and price pressures rise.  “Any hike will be delayed at least till April if not June
next year,” said  Tim Kelleher , vice-president of institutional
banking and markets at Commonwealth Bank of Australia in
Auckland. “The high currency has been inhibiting the recovery
as well and Bollard’s general tone was dovish.”  New Zealand’s dollar was at 74.71 U.S. cents from 74.75
cents yesterday, when it touched 74.35 cents, the lowest since
Dec. 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at   myui1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 