-- Dublin Schoolboy, Creepy Kidnapper, Arch Fundraiser: The Year's Top Novel
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2010-12-08T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/dublin-schoolboy-creepy-kidnapper-arch-fundraiser-the-year-s-top-novels.html
Our favorite works of fiction
this year will take you from a trading colony in 19th-
century Japan to a boys school in present-day Dublin.  Born in Captivity  “Room” by Emma Donoghue (Little, Brown in the U.S.,
Picador in the U.K.). A 19-year-old college student is
abducted by a loathsome creep; when the story opens, she’s
been held captive in an 11-foot-square chamber for seven
years. Donoghue’s novel has the makings of an unbearably
tense thriller. The surprise is how much more it is --
gripping but, because it’s narrated by the 5-year-old boy
who was born in captivity, also affecting and, believe it
or not, sweet.  Tragicomedy of Love  “Freedom” by Jonathan Franzen (Farrar, Straus and
Giroux/Fourth Estate). This monumental tragicomedy of
depressive love savors, and even celebrates, the horrors of
the American family: the terrible things spouses do to each
other and to their children, and the poisonous coldness
with which the children take revenge. If that sounds glum,
try reading a few pages. It’s exhilarating, hilarious and
just about impossible to put down.  Begging for Donations  “The Ask” by Sam Lipsyte (Farrar, Straus and Giroux).
A sad-sack university fundraiser has to suck up to an old
classmate who’s made it big in order to secure a donation
and save his job. The tone is funny-awful: Lipsyte is a
world-class venom spewer, and even if his targets (reality
TV, elite food fads, academic doubletalk) are sometimes
easy, the rage which with he tears into them is a thing to
behold.  Financial Thriller  “The Thousand Autumns of Jacob de Zoet” by David
Mitchell. (Random House/Sceptre) A panoramic novel spanning
two decades at the turn of the 19th century, set on a
Japanese island where the hero has come to work as a junior
clerk with the Dutch East India Company. Fusing elements of
a love story, a financial thriller and a maritime
adventure, it’s got abductions and poisonings, samurai
raids and naval battles. But it also has quieter moments of
meditation on the meeting of two civilizations, an
encounter that’s less a clash than a wary two-step.  Welcome to High School  “Skippy Dies” by Paul Murray (Faber/Hamish Hamilton).
Welcome to Seabrook College, a Catholic boys high school in
Dublin. There’s sex and drugs and high jinks, wimps,
bullies, queen bees and brains, jaded teachers, a
questionable coach and a bloviating headmaster. The
inescapable cruelty of young people is a constant, and
history is everywhere. The thematic richness of the writing
is impressive, yet the book is also just plain fun and
compulsively readable.  Polio Hits Newark  “Nemesis” by  Philip Roth  (Houghton Mifflin
Harcourt/Jonathan Cape). Since 2006, Roth has been turning
out short, devastating novels every year. In this one, set
in 1944, a “profoundly decent” 23-year-old playground
director named Bucky Cantor looks on in helpless horror as
polio devastates his Newark community. Bucky is both the
kind of virile man Roth admires and the kind of less-than-
brilliant good citizen he scorns; the ordeal the author
puts him through is unnerving and pitiless.  Medical Bills  “So Much for That” by Lionel Shriver (HarperCollins).
The hardworking hero has a wife who’s dying from cancer and
a father in a nursing home; he’s going broke from the
bills. It would be hard to cram more misery into a novel,
yet this one raises so many issues -- artistic, cultural
and social -- that it sets all the wheels in your head
spinning. The result is improbably likable and, finally,
even delightful.  Old Maid  “Private Life” by  Jane Smiley  (Knopf/Faber). Margaret
Mayfield is 27 -- an old maid by the Missouri standards of
1905 -- when she marries Capt. Andrew Jackson Jefferson
Early, an astronomer 11 years her senior and, according to
the general estimate (especially his own), very much her
superior in wealth and genius. It takes her many years to
recognize him for what he is: a fool. A quietly absorbing
and thoroughly chilling portrait of a bad marriage.  To buy these books in North America, click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 