-- Tea Prices May Climb 20% as Lower India Output Widens Deficit, Grower Says
-- B y   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m
-- 2010-12-08T05:19:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/tea-prices-may-climb-20-as-lower-india-output-widens-deficit-grower-says.html
Tea prices in India, the top grower
after China, may climb 20 percent in the next five months as
lower output and rising demand worsens a shortage, according to
 McLeod Russel India Ltd. , the largest tea-plantation owner.  Average prices in Assam, which accounts for more than half
of  production , may reach 180 rupees ($4) per kilogram by April
from 150 rupees,  Azam Monem , marketing director at McLeod, said
in a telephone interview. Pest attacks may reduce the crop by as
much as 25 million kilograms to 955 million kilograms, he said.  Rising prices may boost profits at growers including McLeod
and  Jayshree Tea & Industries Ltd. , and raise costs for Unilever
Plc,  Tata Global Beverages Ltd. , the owner of Tetley Brands, and
other companies that buy leaves from India. Output in Kenya, the
biggest exporter, and Sri Lanka, the fourth-biggest grower, may
stagnate in 2011 after rebounding this year, said Monem.  “We’re at the thin edge where any inconsistency in weather
or cropping pattern has an immediate spiking effect on prices,”
Monem said in a phone interview. “The ripples will be felt from
January as you’ll be living off inventory.”  McLeod may get an  average  147 rupees to 150 rupees on every
kilogram sold, compared with 137 rupees to 138 rupees last year,
he said. Production may decline to about 4.5 million kilograms,
he said. Output totaled 77.2 million kilograms in the year ended
March 31, according to the company’s annual report.  Countrywide production slipped 9.6 percent to 120.7 million
kilograms in October from a year earlier, the Tea Board of India
said Dec. 6. The supply deficit may more than double to 100
million kilograms in the year starting April 1, Monem said.  Exports in the January-to-October period gained to 163.1
million kilograms from 157.6 million a year earlier, the board
said. An increase in exports amid a drop in supplies may drain
inventory and support prices, said Monem.  “As we approach the close of the season and once factories
stop production and supply lines dry up in the north, a lot of
people live on stocks,” he said. “Stocks will be drastically
reduced as we get into the new crop year” starting on April 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  