-- Lead in Most U.S. Tree Lights Poses Hazard for Kids, Group Says
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2010-12-08T22:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/lead-in-most-u-s-tree-lights-poses-hazard-for-kids-group-says.html
Fifty-four percent of holiday lights
tested in a U.S. study had more lead than regulators permit in
children’s products, with some strands containing more than 30
times those levels.  Consumers should wash their hands after handling holiday
lights, according to  HealthyStuff.org , a product-information
website that posted the data today. The Ecology Center, the Ann
Arbor, Michigan-based group which runs HealthyStuff.org, tested
68 light sets in the study.  “The last thing families want to be worrying about during
the holidays is whether they are exposing their children to
toxic chemicals by decorating their tree,” said Jeff Gearhart,
research director at the Ecology Center.  The U.S. Consumer Protection Safety Commission enforces a
standard of 300 parts per million for lead in children’s
products. That’s the level at which California requires warning
labels for electrical cords. The CPSC’s limit is scheduled to
decrease to 100 parts per million next year.  Twenty-eight percent of lights tested would be illegal
under European Union limits of 1,000 parts per million for lead
in electronics, said Gearhart.  Lead is a common component in vinyl, the material used to
coat light wirings and bulb sockets, Gearhart said. Some
retailers like IKEA, the Swedish furniture chain, sell products
that comply with European standards, he said.  ‘Not Children’s Products’  The biggest hazard in holiday lights is electrical shocks
and fire from undersized wiring or cracks in the lights, CPSC
spokesman  Scott Wolfson  said in an e-mail. Consumers should make
sure lights carry an independent testing lab’s label and haven’t
been recalled.  “Holiday lights are not children’s products and CPSC
advises parents to not allow children to handle or play with
these lights,” Wolfson said.  Thirty-seven of the 68 products tested had more than 300
parts per million of lead in vinyl-covered cables or light-bulb
sockets, HealthyStuff.org said. Light strands from  General
Electric Co.  and  Home Depot Inc.  tested positive for lead in
excess of the California standard, the group said.  Sets with light bases containing more than 450 parts per
million included two sold at Home Depot under the Home Accents
Holiday and  Martha Stewart Living  labels, the group said.  Seven holiday light strands tested at over 10,000 parts per
million, or more than 30 times the U.S. children’s product
level, HealthyStuff.org said.  Heat Resistant  Minute amounts of lead stabilize cord casings and ensure
they’re heat resistant, GE Lighting spokesman David Schuellerman
said in an e-mail. Tests by a GE licensee, Santa’s Best Craft
Ltd., show all the company’s 2010 holiday lights are “far
below” allowable government levels for lead, he said.  “We do not believe that these products present significant
risk to consumers,” Schuellerman said.  Jean Niemi, a Home Depot spokeswoman, didn’t respond to an
e-mail seeking comment.  The industry negotiated with California officials to
determine which electrical cords would carry warning labels,
Clark Silcox, counsel at the National Electrical Manufacturers
Association, said in a telephone interview. Cords that aren’t
handled frequently, like plugs for televisions or phones, don’t
require them, he said.  Siemens, Philips  “It was an unresolvable conflict whether anyone was truly
exposed to lead,” Silcox said. The Arlington, Virginia-based
group represents wire and cable makers as well as manufacturers
such as GE,  Siemens AG  and  Koninklijke Philips Electronics NV .  Three years after  Congress  established stricter lead-paint
and lead-content limits in children’s products, companies are
taking steps against toxic chemicals in other items.  In June,  McDonald’s Corp.  offered $3 refunds to customers
who bought drinking glasses after cadmium was found in painted
illustrations from the movie “Shrek Forever After.” In
September, Wegmans Food Markets Inc., owner of a chain of East
Coast supermarkets, replaced reusable shopping bags after a
consumer group found high levels of lead.  The CPSC has the authority to order recalls and ask for
manufacturing changes if it determines there’s a risk of lead
poisoning from sources other than lead paint. It has done so
with vinyl miniblinds, crayons, figurines used as game pieces
and children’s jewelry, according to its website.  In 1996, the agency asked the window-covering industry to
stop making vinyl miniblinds because research suggested lead
dust could accumulate as the material degraded.  California requires  warning labels  on Christmas lights,
designating them products with chemicals that may be
carcinogenic and may cause birth defects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Plungis  in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at 
 Bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 