-- Edinburgh Asks Army to Clear Most Snow for 50 Years as Motorists Stranded
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2010-12-08T15:53:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/edinburgh-asks-army-to-clear-most-snow-for-50-years-as-motorists-stranded.html
Edinburgh is seeking help from the
army to help clear streets and pavements in the Scottish capital
after the biggest snowfall in nearly 50 years.  The request to use soldiers stationed at Redford Barracks
in the southwest of the city came as a 20-mile (32 kilometers)
westbound stretch of the motorway linking Edinburgh and Glasgow
that had been closed for more than 40 hours opened after being
cleared of ice.  The municipality hopes to agree details in the “next day
or two,” Mark Turley, a  City of Edinburgh Council  executive,
said in an e-mailed statement today. “In submitting our request
for assistance I have stressed the extreme circumstances being
faced by communities in the south and west of the city.”  As much as 30 inches (76 centimeters) of snow has fallen in
parts of Edinburgh in the past 11 days, the most in almost five
decades. Widespread snowfalls across Scotland have left drivers
stranded in their cars for as long as 17 hours and disrupted
public transport services, including airports.  All the schools in Glasgow, Scotland’s biggest city, stayed
shut for a second day and rail services in some areas were
canceled or reduced, according to the municipality’s  website .
Schools in seven other municipal districts remained closed.  Overall, two thirds Scottish schools were open today, more
than at any time in the past 10 days, Scottish Transport
Secretary  Stewart Stevenson  told lawmakers today.  “A slight alleviation of the worst conditions is forecast
over the next few days,” Stevenson said.  U.K. Transport Secretary  Philip Hammond  said today there
was no need for the army to be used in England as municipalities
can call on contractors to clear roads.  The overnight temperature in Edinburgh fell to minus 14
degrees Celsius (7 degrees Fahrenheit) and minus 13 degrees
Celsius in Glasgow, according to the  Met Office .  Police in central Scotland urged motorists not to drive
unless their journeys were essential.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Woodifield  in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  