-- Electronic Arts Expands Pogo Games to IPod Touch, IPhones
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2010-12-08T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/electronic-arts-expands-pogo-games-to-ipod-touch-iphones.html
Electronic Arts Inc.  will expand its
Pogo casual-games business to Apple Inc.’s mobile devices,
intensifying competition with Zygna Game Network Inc.  Pogo.com , which offers  Hasbro Inc.’s  Scrabble, Monopoly and
almost 100 other titles, will introduce a free application
tomorrow for the iPod Touch and iPhone, Electronic Arts said
today in a statement. The Pogo Games app features five titles
including “Word Whomp” and “Poppit.”  Electronic Arts, the second-largest video-game publisher,
offers the Pogo app a week after Zynga acquired Newtoy Inc., a
McKinney, Texas-based company that publishes a Scrabble-like
multiplayer game for the iPhone called “Words With Friends.”
The two companies will vie to attract casual gamers by offering
free or cheap versions of popular titles.  “The dominant products on platforms like this are
recognizable intellectual property,” Electronic Arts Chief
Executive Officer  John Riccitiello  said in an interview last
month.  Electronic Arts, based in Redwood City, California, has
already formatted Pogo’s Scrabble and Monopoly for  Apple’s 
touch-screen products. The new games on the Pogo app include
“Turbo 21,” a card game based on Black Jack, and “Word
Whomp,” a word unscrambling game. Users can upgrade to an
advertising-free app for $2.99.  About 15 million people visit Pogo each month, according to
Senior Vice President Michael Marchetti. Since 2006, Pogo has
remained a top-10 Internet site for U.S. visitors when measured
by time spent online, according to researcher  ComScore Inc .  Social-Gaming Market  Closely held Zynga, the maker of “FarmVille” and “Mafia
Wars” games on Facebook, is seeking to expand on mobile
devices. “FarmVille” is Facebook’s most popular game with more
than 55 million users, according to AppData.com, a website that
tracks application use on the social networking site.  Electronic Arts has been pushing into the social-gaming
market amid weak growth at its console-games business. The
company last year bought Playfish Inc., the maker of the
“Restaurant City” and “Play Pet Society” games, for as much
as $400 million. It also bought the U.K.-based publisher of
“Angry Birds” to add titles made for the iPhone and iPad.  Riccitiello has cut more than 2,500 jobs since 2008 to
reduce costs and stem three years of losses. The company’s
digital business rose to 20 percent of revenue this fiscal year
from 10 percent a year ago, Chief Financial Officer  Eric Brown 
said Dec. 7 at a conference in New York.  Yesterday, Electronic Arts announced games from Pogo and
other divisions including EA Sports will be available in  Google
Inc.’s  Chrome Web Store.  Revenue Growth  Electronic Arts and Zynga have different strategies in
pursuing revenue growth. Electronic Arts includes in-game
advertising, selling virtual goods and premium pricing. Zynga
focuses on selling virtual goods, said  Edward Woo , an analyst at
Wedbush Securities Inc. in Los Angeles.  “Microtransactions and advertising, those are the two
things you think about as differentiators when you’re putting
out very similar games,” Woo said. “There’s room for EA and
Zynga because both have figured out good ways to make money.”  In-game advertising spending is forecast to rise 33 percent
to $192 million next year, according to research firm eMarketer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cliff Edwards  in San Francisco at 
 Cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  