-- Elizabeth Edwards, Political Wife Shaped by Life of Losses, Dies of Cancer
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2010-12-08T05:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/elizabeth-edwards-political-wife-shaped-by-losses-dies-at-61.html
Elizabeth Edwards , a popular figure
in the Democratic Party whose life was shaped by loss, first of
a teenage son, then of her husband’s two presidential campaigns,
then of a marriage torn by his infidelity, has died. She was 61.  She died yesterday at her home in Chapel Hill, North
Carolina, surrounded by friends and family including her
estranged husband, former Democratic U.S. Senator  John Edwards ,
the Associated Press reported, citing a statement from the
family. Throughout a six-year battle with breast cancer, she
devoted herself to raising son Jack, 10, and daughter Emma
Claire, 12, her two youngest children.  “In her life, Elizabeth Edwards knew tragedy and pain,”
President  Barack Obama  said in a statement. “Many others would
have turned inward; many others in the face of such adversity
would have given up. But through all that she endured, Elizabeth
revealed a kind of fortitude and grace that will long remain a
source of inspiration.”  Edwards endured cancer treatments while supporting her
husband’s bid -- against Obama, among others -- for the 2008
Democratic presidential nomination. Later, she concluded her
husband shouldn’t have run, because he had had affair with a
filmmaker traveling with him in 2006. She separated from her
husband in January.  Her health was a sad footnote to two presidential
campaigns. She was diagnosed with breast cancer the day after
the 2004 general election, a Republican victory that spoiled her
husband’s chance to be vice president. In March 2007, during her
husband’s second campaign, doctors found the cancer had spread
to her bones and was incurable.  Days ‘Numbered’  “The days of our lives, for all of us, are numbered,”
Edwards wrote on her Facebook page yesterday, after doctors
determined her cancer had metastasized to the liver. “We know
that.”  John Edwards’s affair with filmmaker Rielle Hunter produced
a child, as well as an investigation, still open, of whether the
candidate and others improperly used campaign money to support
Hunter. The former North Carolina senator became a pariah in his
party, not least because of what it might have meant to
Democrats’ election chances had he won the nomination, only to
be exposed as unfaithful.  Along with sympathy, the affair drew some criticism of
Elizabeth as well, for permitting her husband to continue
running for the 2008 nomination while they jointly held such a
potentially explosive secret.  Fallout From Affair  In a 2009 book, “ Resilience ,” Edwards said her husband
confessed to her about the affair in the final days of 2006,
after returning home from a tour announcing his second run for
president. She said she cried, screamed and threw up at hearing
the news. She said both of them later realized “he should not
have run.” Asked in a television interview if they were still
in love, she replied, “You know, that’s a complicated
question.”  It wasn’t until August 2008 that John Edwards acknowledged
the affair publicly.  Hunter, in a 2010 interview with GQ magazine, said the
Edwards marriage was troubled long before she entered the
picture. She said John was “emasculated” with fear of “the
wrath of Elizabeth.” Elizabeth Edwards said that wasn’t true.  Even before the infidelity issue was made public, Elizabeth
Edwards faced questions about whether campaigning with cancer in
2007 was the best course for the couple’s two youngest children,
then 8 and 6, who began traveling with their parents and
learning from tutors.  Edwards answered the critics in a 2007 addendum to “Saving
Graces,” her  memoir .  Handling Hardship  “Our children learn something from our choice to live,”
she wrote. “They will have struggles, I know, struggles from
which I cannot protect them, struggles after I am gone. And when
they come, our children will remember how their family, how we,
chose to handle hardship. I want them to say, ‘We did not give
into hardship.’”  Mary Elizabeth Anania was born on July 3, 1949, at
Jacksonville Naval Air Station in Florida, where her father,
Vince, a Navy pilot, was based.  She and two younger siblings -- brother Jay and sister
Nancy -- grew up on the move as their father’s assignments took
the family to bases in Japan, Florida, Virginia and Maryland. It
was an upbringing familiar to Elizabeth’s mother, Mary, also a
Navy pilot’s daughter.  Edwards, known as Mary Beth, was president of her junior-
year class at the Zama American High School in Japan.  At the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill, she
studied English and aspired “to teach young people to love
literature as I did.”  Turn to Law  After two years of graduate study, unimpressed with the job
prospects for an English Ph.D., she changed course and applied
to the university’s law school. “My mother had always wanted me
to go; she said I was argumentative,” Edwards wrote.  A friend persuaded her to accept a date with a fellow law
student, John Edwards. A small-town boy, he considered Elizabeth
to be the classmate with “the blackest hair and fine light blue
eyes” whose poised, intelligent performance in class was
“further evidence that I was way out of my league in the
Carolina School of Law,” he recalled in his  memoir , “Four
Trials.”  Their date -- dancing to a disc jockey at a Holiday Inn --
was mostly forgettable, Elizabeth later wrote. But at the door
to her apartment, John kissed her on the forehead and said
goodnight, a “sweet and tender gesture” that won her heart.  They married on July 30, 1977, and eventually settled in
Raleigh, where they both practiced law and began raising a
family.  Son’s Death  In April 1996, their 16-year-old son,  Wade , was killed when
his Jeep Grand Cherokee fishtailed and flipped on a wind-swept
stretch of highway. John and Elizabeth, along with their
daughter, Cate, channeled their pain into creating a  computer
lab  next to Wade’s high school in Raleigh. John, by then a
wealthy plaintiff’s attorney, launched the Senate bid he had
considered for a few years, defeating Republican Senator  Lauch Faircloth  in 1998.  The couple also decided to have more children. In 1998, at
48, Elizabeth gave birth to a daughter, Emma Claire. Two years
later, in 2000, she had a son, Jack. In her memoir, she
attributed her late-in-life pregnancies to hormone shots plus
“medications and good fortune.”  Elizabeth Edwards became a national figure when her husband
ran for president in 2004, fell short in his bid for the
Democratic nomination, then was selected by  John Kerry  as his
vice presidential running mate.  She said she came up with the scrappy phrase -- “We’ve
waited this long, we can wait a little bit longer” -- that
Edwards spoke in Boston’s Copley Square in the wee hours of the
morning after the election, hoping that Ohio would still swing
to the Democrats.  Concession Day  The Democrats conceded the election later that day.
Elizabeth Edwards went from Kerry’s concession speech to Dana-
Farber Cancer Institute in Boston for a biopsy of a lump she had
found in her breast. Diagnosed with cancer, she underwent
surgery, chemotherapy and radiation therapy.  Over the next few months she received tens of thousands of
supportive letters, plus 65,000 e-mails.  The cancer reappeared in one of her ribs in March 2007. She
underwent oral chemotherapy and received a monthly intravenous
bone strengthener, People magazine reported in July 2007.  She remained active and visible on the campaign trail until
her husband ended his campaign on Jan. 30, 2008, after losses in
the first four Democratic primaries and caucuses.  Health Care  After the campaign, Edwards joined the Center for American
Progress, a Democratic think tank, as a  senior fellow  on health-
care policy. She testified before Congress in 2009 in favor of
overhauling the health-care system to help those who can’t
afford insurance.  “High deductibles and unrealistic copayment
responsibilities leave people with chronic illness at perpetual
risk of financial ruin,” she  said . “Health insurance companies
are able to deny coverage to people with health problems,
exclude pre-existing conditions from coverage when they offer it
and charge unmanageable premiums. They can even rescind coverage
when their policyholders get sick.”  About her own resilience, Edwards told CNN’s  Larry King  in
August 2010: “I don’t think that I’m special in any way, but I
think most people do pull themselves together, do what it is
they need to be done. Sometimes you’re thrown for a loop for a
little while and then you start to reclaim.”  In her April 2010 afterword to “Resilience,” Edwards said
she hoped to live eight more years, so that she could see her
youngest, Jack, graduate from high school and perhaps have Cate,
her oldest, give her a grandchild.  “And if I get there, I know I will want to live longer,
that I will ask for more -- who wouldn’t? -- but right now I
want to live for eight more years, to finish the one job I know
I did better than any other.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Arnold  in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  