-- Ten-Year Treasury Yield May Hit 4% in 2011, Citi Says: Technical Analysis
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-12-08T17:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/ten-year-treasury-yield-may-hit-4-in-2011-citi-says-technical-analysis.html
Trading patterns suggest the 10-year
 U.S. Treasury  note yield is poised to rise to 4 percent in the
next three months if it remains above 3.1 percent on a weekly
closing basis, according to Citigroup Inc.  “We’ve come up a long ways in a short space, but if we get
that close on a weekly basis we could see a continued push to 4
percent in the first quarter,”  Tom Fitzpatrick , chief technical
strategist at Citigroup in New York said in an interview. “The
danger would be quicker than people think.”  The yield last reached 4 percent on April 5. Ten-year notes
fell today, pushing  yields  up the most over two days since
September 2008 on optimism the global economic recovery is
gathering steam. The yield rose the most yesterday in 18 months
after President  Barack Obama  agreed on Dec. 6 to maintain tax
cuts for two years and a payroll tax cut, potentially widening
the deficit while adding to growth.  “The break through 3.05 percent to 3.10 percent on U.S.
10-year yields is important and needs to be watched on a weekly
close basis,” Fitzpatrick wrote in a note to clients.  The 10-year note yield advanced 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage point, to 3.28 percent at 12:28 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. Yields are up 35 basis points
the past two days, the most since after the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  “The tax dynamics were one of the big kickers because they
extended existing tax rates and added on,” Fitzpatrick said.
“There’s looser fiscal policy than what people thought would
come. We are susceptible to good data. Bad data could damper
this thing again, but we’ve been getting slightly better data.
If that continues, then it will further support this.”  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  