-- Canadian Oil Sands Trust Says Enbridge Shipments Drop
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2010-12-08T21:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/enbridge-oil-pipeline-shipments-are-being-curtailed-on-full-storage-tanks.html
Canadian Oil Sands Trust  is shipping
less crude oil than normal on  Enbridge Inc. ’s pipeline system
because tanks along Enbridge’s system are full, Alison Trollope,
a spokeswoman for the producer, said in a telephone interview.  “There may be some barrels that are produced in December
that are shipped in January, but we don’t expect any material
impact at this time,” she said. All western Canadian producers
are probably affected by the situation, which developed about
five days ago, Trollope said.  Some shippers have experienced delivery disruptions while
space is made in receipt tanks by injections into the system’s
main line,  Gina Jordan , an Enbridge spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail statement. She said the disruptions vary by shipper.  “We expect to see increasing improvement day by day as the
month progresses and expect to meet the apportioned nominations
by month-end,” Jordan said.  Enbridge will apportion space by an additional 26 percent
on its crude-oil pipelines 6A, 14 and 62 for December
deliveries,  Jennifer Varey , a company spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail Dec. 2. Enbridge previously announced apportionment of 27
percent on volume destined downstream of Superior, Wisconsin.  “We have been successful at mitigating any impacts to our
refineries at Sarnia and Nanticoke and to our upstream
operations,”  Jon Harding , a spokesman for  Imperial Oil Ltd .,
said in a telephone interview. “It’s an evolving situation. We
continue to follow it closely.”  Canadian Oil Sands is the largest joint venture owner of
Syncrude, which produces a light, sweet, synthetic crude oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Burkhardt  in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 