-- Leopold Bros. Finds Handcrafted Booze Better Business Than Beer
-- B y   A n t o n e   G o n s a l v e s
-- 2010-12-08T21:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/leopold-bros-finds-handcrafted-booze-better-business-than-beer.html
Just over five years ago, Todd Leopold
flew from Ann Arbor, Mich., to Atlanta to persuade high-end
restaurants to carry his distillery’s all-natural spirits. His
pitch: Diners willing to spend on wine can learn to care about
handcrafted booze, too. After days of unfruitful meetings,
Leopold chanced upon Greg Best, the head bartender of Restaurant
Eugene, a five-star Atlanta eatery known for its locally sourced
ingredients. Familiar with Leopold Bros.’ unusual blackberry
liqueur, Best invited Leopold to the restaurant that evening. By
the end of the night, Restaurant Eugene’s chef-owner had agreed
to stock  Leopold Bros. , becoming its first out-of-state
customer. “It was the first time we didn’t feel like a spotted
zebra,” says Leopold.  Today, Leopold’s spirits are distributed in nine states,
including California and Illinois, as well as England, Scotland,
Spain, and Switzerland. Scott Leopold, Todd’s brother, says
revenue will reach $1.6 million this year, up nearly double from
2009, and he estimates about $2.2 million in 2011. Todd, 40, who
studied distilling in Kentucky, Germany, and Austria, handles
product development; Scott, 42, a former environmental engineer
for construction company Black & Veatch, focuses on operations.
Following in the footsteps of boutique wineries and
microbreweries, the brothers are betting consumer interest in
artisanal products will sustain their handcrafted booze, which
can cost twice as much as the mass-produced stuff.  The brothers attribute their success to variety and a
willingness to experiment. Unlike most other craft distilleries,
Leopold doesn’t limit itself to one or two types: It makes and
sells 18 spirits, which range from $33 to $66, including
absinthe, gin, vodka, whiskey, and fruit liqueurs. Six of its
spirits, including a unique whiskey flavored with blackberries,
have earned favorable mentions from GQ, Wine Enthusiast, and
nine other national magazines and newspapers. Besides inventing
its own spirits, Leopold Bros. scoured old distilling manuals
and researched archives to produce pre-Prohibition-style
concoctions as well as a rye whiskey once found in Maryland that
Scott says hasn’t been produced in 50 years.  LESS LABOR, FEWER MATERIALS  Such experimentation isn’t always a hit, so the Leopolds
maintain an “ultra-low overhead.” The business doesn’t pay for
advertising, and each of its four employees is expected to pitch
in on sales, shipping, and production. The push to keep costs
low led the brothers to relocate their brewpub and distillery
from Ann Arbor to Denver in 2008, where distilleries are allowed
to self-distribute their products. In their new home, a 6,000-
square-foot space funded with $500,000 in savings, the brothers
shuttered their beer business and focused on liquor, because
they found it required less labor and fewer raw materials,
making it more profitable.  Leopold Bros. is benefiting from an increase in wholesalers
willing to carry and promote craft distilled products. The
number of micro-distilleries (defined as producing fewer than
40,000 cases per year) nationwide has grown roughly 20 percent
annually over the past eight years, to 226 today, according to
the American Distilling Institute. While that accounts for less
than 1 percent of the $18.7 billion in liquor that the Distilled
Spirits Council says was sold last year, it’s enough to interest
distributors small and large. Jeff Nowicki, chief strategy
officer with beverage consultancy Bump Williams Consulting, says
high margins available from craft distilleries’ products
motivate distributors to carry them.  Changes to state liquor laws have also helped Leopold. Over the
past decade, 27 states have legalized some form of tasting in
stores and distilleries, bringing the total to 43 states.
Tastings help entice new customers to try pricey spirits from
craft distillers, says Bill Owens, founder and president of the
American Distilling Institute. Brett Pontoni, a spirits buyer
for Binny’s Beverage Depot, which holds tastings in its 25
stores in the Chicago area, says revenue from Leopold and other
craft distilleries has been growing in the “double digits” over
the past couple of years. He adds that while the overall volume
of craft sales is small, retailers get margins of roughly 25
percent vs. 10 percent or less from selling major distilleries’
brands.  With interest growing among retailers and distributors, Scott
says the company has begun talks with distributors in Minnesota,
Kansas, Tennessee, China, and France, with the goal of being in
stores by April, and it’s aiming for New York, Texas,
Massachusetts, Missouri, and Florida by October. Consultant
Nowicki says patience and perseverance is what craft
distilleries need to carve a niche in the highly competitive
liquor market. “It’s really grassroots,” he says, referring to
Leopold’s measured approach to distribution. “They’re bringing
to the table a truly American entrepreneurial spirit.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Antone Gonsalves at
 antoneg@pacbell.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  