-- EU Proposes Regulations Against Power, Gas Market Abuse, Insider Trading
-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 2010-12-08T14:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/eu-proposes-rules-against-energy-market-abuse-insider-trading.html
The European Commission, the
regulator for the 27-nation bloc, proposed new energy market
rules to prevent insider trading and manipulation and ensure
consumers pay a fair price for electricity and natural gas.  The new regulations, which the commission expects to be in
force by 2012, include requirements on companies to disclose
exclusive and price-sensitive information before trades can take
place and a ban on transactions that give false signals about
supply and demand or prices in the wholesale markets, the
Brussels-based organization said today in an e-mailed statement.  “It is crucial to ensure EU level comprehensive rules,
which guarantee that citizens can be confident that prices are
formed fairly and they can fully benefit from the internal
energy market,” Energy Commissioner  Guenther Oettinger  said in
the statement.  Electricity trading in Europe almost tripled between 2000
and 2009 to 10,000 terawatt-hours, or about 20 times Germany’s
annual demand. As retail prices for households and industrial
users are linked to wholesale markets, the new rules aim to
increase market transparency to avoid insider trading and market
abuse that may lead to higher prices, the commission said.  The EU initiative “could contribute to improved and fair
competition in European energy trading,” said  Hildegard Mueller , Chairman of BDEW, a Berlin-based lobby group for German
utilities. “Everything must be done to avoid double regulation,
which would lead to unnecessary bureaucracy for companies.”  OTC Trading  Over-the-counter trading of continental and U.K.
electricity and natural gas was valued at 517 billion euros
($683 billion) in the year ended in July 2010, the country’s
Financial Services Authority  said  on Dec. 6. OTC trading, as
opposed to commodities trading on exchanges, covered 75 percent
of all electricity and gas bought and sold in the region last
year, the commission said.  The rules, which need to be adopted by the European
Parliament and Council, will cover contracts for physical
delivery of power and natural gas as well as derivatives trading
of the commodities. Existing financial legislation including the
Market Abuse Directive and the Markets in Financial Instruments
Directive, is not sufficient to control the energy markets, the
commission said.  The new rules include the establishment of a European
market monitoring function within the  Agency for the Cooperation
of Energy Regulators  to detect market abuse, and arrangements
for collecting market data for monitoring purposes.  “For the first time there will be a level playing field at
EU level for transparency and common rules about market
integrity in wholesale energy markets,” RWE AG’s supply and
trading unit said today in a response to the proposals.  “The regulation in its current form provides only for
basic principles of market integrity and transparency and a
massive challenge remains in developing these principles to
address the specific characteristics of the gas and power
markets,” the Essen-based company said. RWE AG is Germany’s
second-biggest utility after E.ON AG.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lars Paulsson  in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  