-- European, U.S. Stock-Index Futures Fall on China Rate Concern
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-12-08T07:35:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/european-u-s-stock-index-futures-fall-on-concern-china-will-raise-rates.html
European stock-index futures fell
amid speculation China will raise interest rates and after
President  Barack Obama  said he’ll fight to let tax cuts for the
wealthiest Americans expire in two years. U.S. futures and Asian
shares retreated.  Mining and energy stocks may slip as copper dropped from a
record and oil declined for a second day. ArcelorMittal may be
active after the steelmaker announced plans to spin off its Inox
unit. Capital Shopping Centres Group Plc might move after Simon
Property Group Inc. said it’s still mulling an offer.  Futures on the  Euro Stoxx 50 Index  lost 0.7 percent to
2,782 at 7:35 a.m. in London. FTSE 100 Index futures dropped 0.7
percent, while  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  futures slid 0.4
percent. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  dropped 0.9 percent.  “The initial positivity from the extension of Bush Tax
cuts in the US was short lived,” said  Jonathan Sudaria , a
trader at London Capital Group in the U.K. capital. “With
markets making solid gains on the year and the Christmas lull
approaching, traders could be in a mood for reducing risk and
booking profits.”  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  climbed to a two-year
high yesterday after Obama agreed to extend Bush-era tax cuts
for high-income taxpayers in exchange for extending federal
unemployment insurance and cutting the payroll tax by $120
billion for one year.  Tax, Insider Trading  U.S. stocks erased gains in the final hour of trading
yesterday, pulling the S&P 500 down from a two-year high, after
Obama told a White House news conference he’ll push to let the
tax cuts expire in two years and Reuters reported that U.S.
authorities widened their investigation of insider trading on
Wall Street.  In Asia, stocks tumbled by the most in two weeks after
China’s statistics bureau brought forward the release of
November economic data by two days to Dec. 11.  The China Securities Journal reported yesterday that the
central bank may raise rates around the time set for the release
of November’s inflation data, citing  Li Huiyong , an analyst at
Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.  “This weekend is now regarded as a ‘window’ for China to
raise rates,” said Li.  Asian stocks extended declines after Yonhap News reported
North Korea fired artillery shells into its own waters near the
disputed western border with South Korea today. A government
official in Seoul said North Korea may have fired artillery
shells and is examining the incident.  Antofagasta, Total  Commodity stocks including Antofagasta Plc and Total SA may
retreat as some investors sold copper to lock-in gains following
its climb to an all-time high yesterday and as crude Oil fell
after an industry report showed U.S. gasoline supplies surged
the most since January.  ArcelorMittal might be active after the world’s biggest
steelmaker said it will spin off its Inox unit in the first
quarter of 2011.  Capital Shopping Centres may move after Simon Property said
it is still willing to consider acquisition proposals and it
asked the company’s board to let it review some due-diligence
information.  The Wall Street Journal reported yesterday that Simon
Property may give up its pursuit of the U.K. company, citing
unidentified people familiar with the matter. Capital Shopping
surged on Nov. 25 after saying Simon Property may offer more
than 2.3 billion pounds ($3.6 billion) in cash.  Man Group Plc, the biggest publicly traded hedge-fund
manager, may move after saying the weekly net asset value of its
Man AHL Diversified Futures Ltd. was $39.06 at the close of
business on Dec. 6. That’s up 3 percent compared with the
previous week’s close.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 