-- Texas Borrows to Pay Unemployment Benefits as Spread Narrows: Muni Credit
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2010-12-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/texas-borrows-to-pay-unemployment-benefits-as-spread-narrows-muni-credit.html
Texas , the second most-populous U.S.
state, avoided paying higher interest rates on federal
obligations with the sale of $854.7 million in debt to cover
unemployment benefits.  The so-called spread on a similar borrowing Nov. 18
narrowed even as  rates  in the broader municipal market rose to
their highest since Nov. 19 along with  U.S. Treasury yields 
yesterday. President  Barack Obama ’s accord with Republican
leaders to extend tax cuts led investors to dump bonds, said
 John Bonnell , who helps oversee $6.9 billion including munis at
USAA Investment Management Co. in San Antonio.  Texas, which is borrowing through the Texas Public Finance
Authority, didn’t expect the selloff in yesterday’s market to
affect plans to offer no more than 3 percent, said Dwight Burns,
the agency’s executive director.  “That created some more uncertainty,” said Burns. “But
not enough to affect our transaction.”  Tax-exempt yields also increased as an extension of the
taxable Build America Bond program looked in doubt, said
Bonnell. Build America interest-costs are subsidized at a rate
of 35 percent by the federal government and the program is set
to expire Dec. 31 unless Congress extends it.  Texas sold its second bond issue in a month -- with the
previous issue’s longest maturity offering 2.63 percent --
designed to reduce its cost for paying jobless benefits once the
U.S. government starts charging interest next year. The state
will avoid paying rates of 4.5 percent, according to estimates
as the sale was being prepared in September.  Rising Yields  Texas’s bonds did “not come cheap,” said  Anthony Valeri, 
a market strategist with LPL Financial Corp. in San Diego, which
oversees $293 billion of assets. The state “didn’t do that bad
considering the weakness in the market” he said.  Yields, which move inversely to prices, rose across the
spectrum of maturities, according to Municipal Market Advisors
data. Yields rose 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, in
the  first  four years of the curve and 5 basis points in the  10-
year maturity.  The increases weren’t as much as U.S. Treasuries,
where 10-year maturities rose 15 basis points,  Carolyn Dolan ,
principal at Samson Capital Advisors LLC in New York, said
yesterday.  “Municipals didn’t fall as much as Treasuries,” said
Dolan, who helps oversee $7.3 billion of assets. “Munis are
still relatively cheap.”  Texas sold $1.1 billion of similar bonds with a maximum
maturity of 7 years Nov. 18. Since then, yields on the long
maturities compared with  top-rated debt  have narrowed 29 basis
points to 1 basis point as of Dec. 2 on the 7-year portion in
secondary market trades, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Going Broke  More than half of U.S. states have run out of money in
their unemployment trust funds, financed by payroll taxes,
because of  joblessness  persisting from the longest recession
since the Great Depression. Texas had an 8.1 percent
 unemployment rate  in October, when the  national  level was 9.6
percent.  States have  borrowed about $41.4 billion  from the federal
government which has been providing the cash, without charging
interest, under the economic-stimulus package enacted in 2009.  Following is a description of a pending sale of U.S.
municipal debt:  NEW YORK LIBERTY DEVELOPMENT CORP., a state arm created to
finance loans for lower Manhattan construction, will sell about
$1.3 billion in tax-exempts this week to refinance existing debt
from the World Trade Center project, according to Standard &
Poor’s, which assigned a rating of AA-, fourth-highest. The
bonds are backed by support payments from the Port Authority of
New York & New Jersey, which owns the site, and rent from New
York City, S&P said in a Dec. 1 report. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
will lead banks marketing the bonds. (Updated Dec. 7)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Darrell Preston  in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  