-- Mexico May Extend Oil Output Declines for 7th Year
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2010-12-08T23:14:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/mexico-may-extend-oil-output-declines-for-7th-year-update1-.html
Petroleos Mexicanos, the state-owned
oil company, is likely to post a seventh straight year of output
declines in 2011 after the company faced delays to attract
private investment for exploration projects.  Output will likely average 2.55 million barrels a day next
year, down from 2.58 million in 2010, Mexican Energy Minister
 Georgina Kessel  said today in an interview. “From there on,
we’ll continue to increase, very gradually, our production,”
said Kessel, who is also chairwoman of the state-owned company.  Chief Executive Officer  Juan Jose Suarez Coppel  had been
seeking Pemex’s first production gains since 2004 as he
stabilized output at the company’s Cantarell field and brought
online new projects. The company is counting on new performance-
based contracts with foreign operators to help boost output.
These faced delays in being approved by the company’s board.  State-owned Pemex plans to hire companies to maximize
reserves in older fields and also explore in deep waters in the
Gulf of Mexico, where it estimates it may have 30 billion
barrels of oil. Kessel said that contracts for deep water
projects may be offered at the end of 2011 or early 2012.  Pemex is targeting companies such as Exxon Mobil Corp.,
Royal Dutch Shell Plc and BP Plc. The Mexico City-based company
has been preparing the performance-based accords since Mexico
revised its oil laws in 2008 to allow the hiring of foreign
companies. Mexico’s Supreme Court upheld those plans this week
after they were challenged by some lawmakers.  Betting on Contracts  Pemex “was betting in the implementation of the new
contracts to revert the falling production,”  Alejandra Leon,  an
analyst with Cambridge Energy Research Associates, or CERA, in
Mexico City, said today in a telephone interview. She estimates
Pemex won’t be able to stop output declines before 2018.  Pemex published preliminary contract conditions last month
to develop three mature fields. Final auction rules will be
published in February, the company said.  “Those contracts are too small for the needs of a company
such as Pemex,”  David Shields , a Mexico City-based energy
analyst who has written two books about Pemex, said today. “I
don’t see how they can increase output.”  In about a year, the Mexican oil producer may produce about
2.6 million barrels a day and start reverting the trend, Kessel
said. “We’re about to start seeing the results from the
increased investments in the sector,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos M. Rodriguez  in Cancun at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  