-- Pre-Dawn Fire at Chile's San Miguel Prison Kills 81 Inmates, Officials Say
-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 2010-12-08T19:54:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/fire-at-chile-s-san-miguel-prison-kills-at-least-81-people-officials-say.html
More than 80 inmates died in a pre-
dawn fire at an overcrowded prison in Chile. Authorities
described the blaze as the biggest tragedy in the history of the
country’s prison system.  The fire at San Miguel prison, in the capital Santiago,
claimed 81 lives and started during a fight between inmates,
Luis Masferrer, national director of prison guards, said on
state television channel TVN.  At least 21 people are being treated for injuries,
President  Sebastian Pinera  told reporters near the prison, where
he was overseeing the government’s response. An estimated 14
inmates suffered life-threatening burns, Health Minister  Jaime Manalich  said.  Dozens of inmates’ family members gathered outside the jail
and threw rocks at police, demanding to know the identities of
those who died.  “What happened this morning was probably the biggest
tragedy in the history of our prison system,” Manalich said.
“The number of dead could increase because those who are in the
hospital are in grave danger and could present complications in
the coming hours and days.”  An individual who has not been identified notified
firefighters this morning of the blaze from a cell phone inside
the prison, according to a statement posted on the fire
department website.  Top Floor  The blaze broke out on the top floor of a tower that housed
inmates, the fire corps said. Inmates who survived unharmed are
being guarded in a prison gymnasium, the Justice Ministry said
in a statement on its website.  Hundreds of prisoners would have perished had the fire
erupted on a lower floor, Senator  Alejandro Navarro  told TVN by
telephone during a visit to San Miguel.  “This was a hell,” he said of the prison. “This could
have been even more tragic than it was.”  Family members have been notified in cases where
authorities have been able to identify the deceased, Pinera
said. The government has started publishing the names of
survivors and some victims on a Justice Ministry  website .  Crowded Prison  San Miguel, designed to hold 1,100 inmates, housed 1,900 at
the time of the fire, Pinera said.  “The time will come to find out who was responsible for
this,” Pinera said, adding that Chile is building three new
jails to address overcrowding. “We cannot continue living with
a prison system that is absolutely and totally inhumane.”  Authorities still are identifying the remains of those
killed, Interior Minister  Rodrigo Hinzpeter  told reporters.  “Families are receiving information as quickly as we can
provide it to them, and the public will be completely
informed,” Hinzpeter said.  Chile will investigate the cause of the fire and whether
firefighters and prison guards responded appropriately, public
prosecutor Alejandro Pena said on TVN.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  