-- First Republic Raises $281 Million in IPO From Colony, General Atlantic
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2010-12-09T21:14:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/first-republic-bank-raises-281-million-in-ipo-priced-at-25-50-per-share.html
First Republic Bank , the former Bank
of America Corp. unit backed by Colony Capital LLC and General
Atlantic LLC, advanced 9.5 percent after raising $281 million in
its U.S. initial public offering.  The San Francisco-based private bank gained $2.42 to $27.92
in New York Stock Exchange trading. The company sold 11 million
shares for $25.50 apiece after offering them at $24 to $27,
according to a statement. Separately, Beijing-based  Bona Film
Group Ltd. , China’s largest privately owned film distributor,
posted the biggest first-day drop in three years for a U.S. IPO.  First Republic’s sale was the second this week backed by
private equity funds after buyout firms reduced their U.S. IPOs
by 17 percent on average this year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Targa Resources Corp. , the Houston-based natural-gas
pipeline company controlled by Warburg Pincus LLC, increased the
size of its offering by 25 percent on Dec. 6.  “It’s a positive note the fact that it was actually able
to price in the middle of the range,” said  Josef Schuster , the
Chicago-based founder of IPOX Capital Management LLC, which
oversees $3 billion. “Not every private equity-backed deal may
be a bad deal.”  Bank of America  in Charlotte, North Carolina, and Morgan
Stanley and JPMorgan Chase & Co. of New York arranged First
Republic’s offering, the prospectus showed.  Private Equity Profits  Colony Capital and General Atlantic led a group that
invested $1.86 billion of equity capital in First Republic at
midyear. They each planned to sell about 1.67 million shares in
the IPO and retain 19.8 percent stakes, according to the filing.  The private equity firms bought their shares for an average
of $15 each, giving them a profit of about 70 percent from the
shares they sold in the IPO, according to the prospectus and
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bank of America , which received $45 billion in U.S. rescue
funds, inherited First Republic when it acquired Merrill Lynch &
Co. in 2008 and then opted to sell the bank after determining it
wasn’t a core business.  First Republic  has been profitable for
25 years since its founding, according to its filings.  The initial sales by First Republic and Targa Resources
were the first backed by private equity firms since Las Vegas-
based  Harrah’s Entertainment Inc.  pulled its $531 million
offering last month, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  SemiLEDs, Bona Film  SemiLEDs Corp. , the manufacturer of light emitting diode
chips in Hsinchu, Taiwan, sold 5.25 million shares at $17 each
yesterday after offering them for $14.50 to $16.50 apiece, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The stock surged  52 percent  to
$25.76 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Bona Film  fell 22 percent to $6.60, the biggest first-day
retreat on U.S. exchanges since Beijing-based  Agria Corp.  slid
27 percent on Nov. 7, 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The company sold 11.7 million American depositary receipts
for $8.50 each after offering them for $7 to $9, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg and an SEC filing. The offering was
the third of five Chinese IPOs scheduled in New York this week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Youku.com Inc.  of Beijing, China’s largest online video
company, yesterday posted the biggest gain for a U.S. IPO since
Beijing-based Baidu Inc. five years ago.  E-Commerce China
Dangdang Inc.  in Beijing, the nation’s biggest book retailer,
almost doubled in its New York debut yesterday.  ‘Sweet Spot’  “Yesterday’s deals are in a sweet spot, the center of
attention nowadays,” IPOX’s Schuster said. Bona is “a film
company. They do distribution. It’s more like an old economy
theme priced at a new economy type of value, and there’s a lack
of enthusiasm toward the value,” he said.  Lentuo International Inc.  and  Sky-mobi Ltd.  will attempt to
sell shares today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Lentuo is based in Beijing, while Sky-mobi is located in
Hangzhou city in China’s Zhejiang province.  The sales scheduled for this week would bring the number of
mainland IPOs in New York to 39 this year, surpassing the record
of 37 in 2007, the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 