-- Ex-Goldman Sachs Programmer's Expert Witness Says Trading Code on Websites
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-12-09T01:21:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/former-goldman-sachs-programmer-s-expert-says-trading-code-was-on-internet.html
The computer source code former
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  programmer  Sergey Aleynikov  is accused
of stealing can be found on the Internet, an expert witness said
on the last day of Aleynikov’s trial before closing arguments
start tomorrow.  Benjamin Goldberg, an associate professor of computer
science at New York University and the only witness for the
defense, said he compared the high frequency trading code, which
Goldman Sachs and prosecutors say was proprietary, with what’s
publicly available on websites. They were either the same or
Goldman Sachs’s was slightly modified, he said.  None of code he found on Aleynikov’s computers was
proprietary, told a federal jury in Manhattan.  “The material he downloaded or obtained from Goldman
Sachs’s computers contained lots of open source software,”
Goldberg testified today.  Aleynikov was arrested in July 2009 and charged with
stealing portions of the code from Goldman Sachs on his last day
of work for the bank in June 2009.  Aleynikov is charged with violating the Economic Espionage
Act and the Interstate Transportation of Stolen Property Act. If
convicted, he faces as long as 15 years in prison. His attorney,
 Kevin Marino , argued Aleynikov broke a confidentiality rule of
the company and didn’t commit a crime.  ‘Wheel of Fortune’  Federal prosecutors in New York concluded their case today
by calling witnesses who told jurors about a lawsuit against
Aleynikov by the creators of the “Wheel of Fortune” TV game
show. The suit claimed Aleynikov and his company created an
online version of the game that violated the show’s intellectual
property rights.  Aleynikov entered into an agreement in December 1997 in
which “he was ordered to cease infringing on the television
show” and to stop publishing a game he was selling, prosecutors
said. When he was arrested last year, investigators found a
resume in which Aleynikov “essentially bragged about his theft
of intellectual property,” prosecutors said.  The government argued that the suit and the order could be
considered by jurors as relevant to Aleynikov’s motives for his
alleged crimes against Goldman Sachs.  ‘Open Source’  Aleynikov who started working as a programmer at Goldman
Sachs in May 2007 is accused of copying hundreds of thousands of
lines of computer source code. Aleynikov told federal
investigators that he intended to copy only “open source” code
not owned by Goldman Sachs, according to the prosecutors.  Assistant U.S. Attorney  Joseph Facciponti  told jurors that
after Aleynikov agreed to take a job at Teza Technologies LLC,
the Chicago-based company promised him a $1.2 million salary, a
bonus and profit-sharing, compared with $400,000 he was making
at Goldman Sachs.  At about 5:20 p.m. on his last day of work Aleynikov sent
parts of Goldman Sachs’s high-speed trading code to an outside
computer server, Facciponti said in opening statements to the
jury.  Aleynikov sent stolen code to a code-storage website in
Europe that wasn’t blocked by Goldman Sachs, he said. Aleynikov
then executed a program to cover his tracks, Facciponti said.  Prosecutors asked U.S. District Judge  Denise Cote , who is
presiding over the trial, to keep parts of the evidence secret
to avoid disclosing Goldman Sachs trade secrets.  The courtroom was closed today after Marino said his expert
witness would discuss the confidential evidence.  The case is U.S. v. Aleynikov, 1:10-cr-00096, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  