-- Fortune Brands May Spin Off Golf, Home and Security Businesses, WSJ Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-12-08T04:07:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/fortune-brands-to-split-into-three-businesses-wsj-reports.html
Fortune Brands Inc. , the maker of Jim
Beam bourbon and Titleist golf balls, may split into as many as
three separate  businesses , the Wall Street Journal reported,
citing unidentified people familiar with the matter.  The home and security unit could be spun off to
shareholders and the same may be done for the golf division
while  Fortune Brands  would continue as a publicly traded liquor
company, the Journal reported yesterday, citing people briefed
on the plan. An announcement may come as soon as today, it said.  Activist investor  William Ackman , who previously pushed for
change at  Target Corp.  and Wendy’s International Inc., disclosed
an 11 percent stake in  Fortune Brands  two months ago. The
Deerfield, Illinois-based company hired Credit Suisse Group AG
and Centerview Partners for advice ahead of meetings with
Ackman, four people with knowledge of the matter said in
October, declining to be named because the talks were private.  Before Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP
disclosed its stake Oct. 8, Fortune Brands  shares  had lost a
quarter of their value since Chief Executive Officer  Bruce Carbonari  took on the role in January 2008. Pershing is the 
biggest investor in  Fortune Brands , according to data compiled 
by Bloomberg.  Fortune Brands fell 0.5 percent to $61.15 in New York 
trading yesterday, giving it a market value of $9.3 billion.  Clarkson Hine , a spokesman for Fortune Brands, did not
return a call and e-mails after regular business hours.  Fortune Brands gets about 45 percent of  sales  from its home
and security unit, including Moen faucets and Therma-Tru doors.
The division contributed 17 percent of operating income in 2009.  The liquor unit, whose  brands  also include Courvoisier
cognac and Effen vodka, is its most profitable business, with
earnings of $485 million on sales of $2.5 billion last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  