-- Jim Beam Maker Fortune Brands to Split in Three After Ackman Builds Stake
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d   a n d   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2010-12-08T21:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/fortune-brands-said-to-plan-a-split-into-three-separate-units.html
Fortune Brands Inc. , the maker of Jim
Beam bourbon and Titleist golf balls, plans to split into three
separate  businesses  and focus on distilled spirits after
activist investor  William Ackman  built up a stake.  Fortune will spin off its home and security division as a
publicly traded company and sell or spin off its golf unit,
according to a statement today. Chief Executive Officer  Bruce Carbonari  said Fortune  found  “much strategic common ground”
with Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP, which
became Fortune’s largest investor this year.  Ackman has sought to dismantle Fortune, founded as a
tobacco company almost 150 years ago, to boost the value of its
stock. Before he disclosed his stake two months ago, Fortune had
slumped 28 percent since Carbonari took over in January 2008.  “This is the first step to clear the decks for a potential
private market transaction for one or more of the businesses,”
 Doug Lane , an analyst with Jefferies & Co. in New York, said
today in a telephone interview. “The real upside could be,
‘What will the spirits portfolio fetch if you get strategic
buyers involved?’” Lane recommends holding the stock.  Fortune, based in Deerfield, Illinois, rose 61 cents to
$61.76 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
 trading . Before today, the stock had risen 18 percent since Oct.
7, the day before Ackman disclosed his stake, as investors
anticipated a breakup. Fortune is fairly valued at its current
share price, Lane said, adding the stock could decline to $50 in
the unlikely event the company abandons its plan.  Valuations  Fortune has an enterprise value of $13 billion, which
includes items such as  debt . Alone, the spirits business,
anchored by its bourbon portfolio, could be worth $8.4 billion,
Lane said. That’s based on estimated 2010 earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of a set of peer
companies he evaluated.  The home and security unit may be worth $3.5 billion, while
the sports equipment business, centered on Titleist, may be
worth $1.1 billion, Lane said.  Ackman , who previously pushed for change at  Target Corp. 
and Wendy’s International Inc., disclosed an 11 percent stake in
 Fortune Brands  Oct. 8. He may stand to make a profit of about
$265 million, based on figures provided in regulatory filings
and today’s closing stock price. Ackman was unavailable for
comment, said Bethany Norvell, a spokeswoman for Pershing.  “Ackman is someone who’s made a living of breaking things
up to realize value,” Credit Suisse Group AG  analyst   Anthony Bucalo  said in London today. “The implication is that there’ll
be a significant spirit asset up for sale,” suggesting the
liquor business could get involved in a transaction.  Spirits Deals  Diageo Plc , the world’s largest spirits company, may be
interested in buying some brands, Bucalo said. Diageo spokesman
 James Crampton  declined to comment today.  Companies have pursued more than 400 transactions in the
spirits industry over the past five years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The median multiple in those transactions
was about 10.4 times ebitda. That period also has yielded about
80 deals in the sporting goods industry globally, with a median
multiple of 9.1 times ebitda.  Fortune  dates its origins to the 1864 founding of its
predecessor by North Carolina farmer Washington Duke, according
to Hoover’s Inc. It expanded into home products in the 1980s and
added seven liquor brands from Seagram in 1991. It has owned the
Jim Beam distillery since the 1960s and exited tobacco in the
1990s.  Fortune Brands hired  Credit Suisse  and Centerview Partners
LLP for advice ahead of meetings with Ackman, four people with
knowledge of the matter said in October, declining to be named
because the talks were private.  Liquor’s Profits  Fortune’s liquor unit, whose brands also include
Courvoisier cognac and Effen vodka, is the company’s most
 profitable  business, with earnings of $485 million on sales of
$2.5 billion last year, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
The company gets about 45 percent of sales from its home and
security unit, including Moen faucets and Therma-Tru doors. The
division contributed 17 percent of operating income in 2009.  Diageo  may be interested in buying Fortune’s bourbons,
including Maker’s Mark, to expand in the category in the  U.S. ,
according to UBS. Distribution agreements with  LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA ’s alcohol division for cognac and with
Casa Cuervo SA de CV for Jose Cuervo tequila may prevent Diageo
from buying the unit due to competition issues.  Bourbon Bids?  If Diageo were to bid for Fortune’s bourbons, there would
“have to be someone else to come in to pick up the rest of the
brands,” Bucalo said. “It doesn’t appear there’s anyone in the
spirits industry who has the capacity to do that.”  Matthew Jordan, an analyst at Matrix in London, wrote today
in a note that Diageo could lead a group of buyers for the unit,
including  Davide Campari-Milano SpA . Campari spokeswoman Chiara
Bressani declined to comment.  Pernod-Ricard SA  may be interested in buying the unit to
add tequila and bourbon to its portfolio, though it doesn’t have
the  financial capacity  to do it at the moment, UBS analyst  Jason Derise  said. Calls to a Pernod spokesman today weren’t
immediately returned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Duane D. Stanford  in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net ;
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  