-- Hot Planet Rich in Carbon May Have Heart of Diamond Rocks at Its Core
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 2010-12-08T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/gassy-wasp-12b-may-point-to-diamond-studded-planets-beyond-solar-system.html
Scientists identified the first
planet with an atmosphere and core dominated by carbon, raising
the prospect that diamond-studded celestial bodies may exist.  The planet, called  WASP-12b , is beyond our solar system,
about 1,200 light-years from Earth, and was  discovered  in 2008.
Now astronomers led by  Nikku Madhusudhan , who performed his work
at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, have assessed the
planet’s atmosphere. It’s the first found to contain more carbon
than oxygen, the scientists said today in the journal  Nature .  Like Jupiter, WASP-12b is made largely of gas, only its
core contains carbon-based minerals such as diamonds and
graphite, Madhusudhan said in a telephone interview yesterday.  “If there’s one carbon-based planet, there could be many
more,” said Madhusudhan, who left MIT in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, and now is a postdoctoral scholar at Princeton
University in Princeton, New Jersey. “If so, what kind of life
could exist there and under what conditions, I don’t know.”  The planet -- larger than Jupiter -- is windy, blazing hot
and  so near its star  that it circles in a single day compared
with the 365 needed for Earth to go round the sun. While one
side of WASP-12b always faces the star and is daylit, and the
other is always dark, the planet’s strong winds and gaseous
nature distribute energy and keep both sides equally warm --
about 4,200 degrees Fahrenheit (2,300 degrees Celsius),
Madhusudhan said.  Other Planet Life  With that much hotness and no solid surface, WASP-12b
couldn’t support life, he said. That doesn’t mean that other
carbon planets are devoid of life, Madhusudhan said.  “If life exists on such planets, it has to be able to
sustain low oxygen, low water and lots of methane and other
hydrocarbons” that would be in the atmosphere, Madhusudhan
said.  If there are other planets with more carbon than oxygen,
and some have rocky surfaces instead of gaseous ones, such orbs
may have rocks made of diamonds and graphite, Madhusudhan said.
On Earth, where oxygen exceeds carbon in the atmosphere,
silicate-based minerals such as feldspar and quartz predominate.
Silicate is a mixture of silicon and oxygen.  The planet was discovered by collaborators on the Wide
Angle Search for Planets, whose acronym gave the planet its
name. Scientists analyzed WASP-12b’s atmosphere by assessing
light emitted just before the planet passed behind its star
during an eclipse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Waters in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 