-- Gaza's Bridal Beds Mean Economic Growth as Israel Eases Control on Exports
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2010-12-09T14:56:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/gaza-s-bridal-beds-mean-economic-growth-as-israel-eases-control.html
Maher Mushtaha’s furniture factory
lost its $10 million in annual revenue and had to furlough most
of its 284 employees when Israel closed Gaza’s borders in June
2007 following Hamas’s takeover of the Palestinian territory.  Now the Mushtaha Furniture & Trading Co. may get a chance
to start sending bridal beds again to customers in Israel and
the West Bank. The Israeli government yesterday authorized plans
to gradually open the Gaza border to exports.  “We are ready to start exporting again whenever they allow
us,” Mushtaha said in an interview at the factory in the Karni
industrial zone on Gaza’s northeast border. “The business was
destroyed. We stopped all production and I had to tell my
employees to stay home.”  Easing trade restrictions in the West Bank last year helped
spark 7.2 percent economic growth in that territory, where Prime
Minister  Salam Fayyad  has sought to demonstrate that a stronger
Palestinian Authority won’t threaten Israeli security.  Israel’s Gaza restrictions have held 1.5 million people
inside 360 square kilometers (140 square miles) of territory,
spawned the digging of more than 1,000 smuggling tunnels into
Egypt and increased Gaza’s dependence on aid from abroad.
Israel, like the U.S. and the European Union, considers Hamas a
terrorist organization. Israel invaded Gaza in 2008 in what it
said was an operation to stop hostile rocket fire from Hamas.  Unemployment is 39 percent in Gaza and 15 percent in the
West Bank, according to the World Bank. Per capita gross
domestic product in Gaza is about $775, compared with $1,718 in
the West Bank, according to the Palestinian Central Bureau of
Statistics.  Trade and Travel  Palestinians say that easing the blockade in Gaza and
travel restrictions in the West Bank are key to jump-starting
the economy as Fayyad and Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  seek to lay the groundwork for a Palestinian state
by boosting economic activity and weaning it off donors.  As President  Barack Obama  struggles to broker the
resumption of peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians,
the U.S., the EU and the UN have exerted pressure on Israel to
loosen restrictions on Palestinian movement.  Exports, mostly of agricultural produce, furniture and
textiles, could begin during the first quarter of 2011, Guy
Inbar, a spokesman for the Israeli Defense Ministry’s
coordination office for the West Bank and Gaza, said in a phone
interview yesterday. More items could be added later if there
are no security threats, Major General Eitan Dangot, the head of
the coordination office, said in a Nov. 24 interview when the
issue was under discussion.  Blocked Artery  Shipments out of Gaza in 2006 reached about $400 million, or
40 percent of the $1-billion economy,  Omar Shaban , director of
Pal-Think, an economic research institute in Gaza City, said in
an interview.  “In theory, no economy can function with just one-way
trade,” Shaban said. “In practice, in the past few years Gaza
has been trying to function with a major economic artery being
blocked.”  While Gaza businesses have been unable to export, companies
in the West Bank have benefited from Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s decision to remove roadblocks and ease other
restrictions in the name of what he calls “economic peace.”  Canaan Fair Trade  olive oil and sun-dried tomatoes, made in
the West Bank city of Jenin, now sell in groceries such as
Austin, Texas-based  Whole Foods Market Inc.  and London-based  J.
Sainsbury Plc . Nasser Abufarha, the company’s U.S.-educated
founder, expects sales to reach a record $4 million next year.  ‘Keeps Increasing’  “Demand for our products from abroad just keeps
increasing,” Abufarha said. “Profits have grown almost every
year.”  Israel eased its blockade of Gaza last June with the aim of
allowing food in and keeping weapons and items with a possible
military use out.  Catherine Ashton , the EU’s foreign policy chief, today
praised Israel’s decision on Gaza exports in an e-mailed
statement, calling it “a positive further step in the right
direction.”  Allowing exports from Gaza presents more security
challenges than letting in imports, Dangot said. He pointed to a
2004 attack in which two Palestinian gunmen hiding in a cargo
container from Gaza opened fire and killed 10 people at Israel’s
Ashdod port.  Mahmoud al-Zahar , a Hamas leader, said in a Nov. 24
interview that Gaza officials “have no objections” and won’t
interfere with the plan to export goods through Israel if the
logistics are handled via the Palestinian Authority in Ramallah.  Fayyad said he will press Israel to lift restrictions
further, both in Gaza and in the West Bank.  ‘Full Advantage’  “We’re going to try to take full advantage of what’s
available while continuing to ask for more -- at the same time
expecting that exports will be allowed out of Gaza,” Fayyad
told reporters in the West Bank town of Turmus Aya on Oct. 26.  Until now, the only Gaza exports permitted have been
seasonal shipments of strawberries and flowers.  In his factory near an idled Israeli cargo terminal,
Mushtaha keeps a skeleton crew of carpenters building up stock
for the moment when he can start shipping again. He also has a
small factory in Egypt that has provided revenue.  “I have been doing nothing over the past six months but
making furniture,” Mushtaha said yesterday, gesturing toward a
storeroom full of unpainted beds, chairs and wardrobes. “We are
overloaded.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Gaza City through the Tel Aviv newsroom at
   jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
 David Wainer  in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net .
Claudia Maedler in Dubai at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  