-- Gensler Says CFTC Needs Funds for Rulemaking, Monitoring Under Dodd-Frank
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-12-08T21:20:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/gensler-says-cftc-needs-funds-for-rulemaking-monitoring-under-dodd-frank.html
U.S. Commodities Futures Trading
Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler  said his agency isn’t fully
prepared to cope with demands imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act and
that he needs more resources to handle the rulemaking burden and
broader surveillance after the May 6 stock-market crash.  “The CFTC’s current funding is far less than what is
required to properly fulfill our significantly expanded role,”
Gensler said today in testimony prepared for a Senate hearing in
Washington where he testified along with  Mary Schapiro , chairman
of the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Senators  Jack Reed  of Rhode Island and  Carl Levin  of
Michigan, both Democrats, called the joint subcommittee hearing
to examine steps the regulators have taken in leading the U.S.
response to the May 6 plunge that briefly erased $862 billion of
stock value in less than 20 minutes before markets recovered.  Lawmakers want to “examine what tools and resources
regulators need to keep up with an increasingly complex and
high-speed marketplace that includes high-frequency trading and
other computerized trading strategies,” said Reed, chairman of
the Senate Banking Committee’s capital markets panel, in a
statement released yesterday.  The CFTC doesn’t have enough money or staff to expand its
safeguards against market disruptions while writing the new
rules dictated by the financial-regulation overhaul enacted in
July, Gensler said in his statement. Full implementation of
Dodd-Frank requirements will require 400 additional staff
members, he said.  Schapiro said the SEC is similarly hampered in its efforts
to keep up with modern markets increasingly dominated by high-
speed traders.  ‘Commission’s Tools’  “The commission’s tools for collecting data and
surveilling our markets do not incorporate the technology
currently used by those we regulate,” Schapiro said in her
prepared remarks.  Reed’s banking panel and Levin’s Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations are holding the hearing seven months after the
May 6 crash, in which the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 9.2
percent before recovering most of the loss by the end of
trading. Schapiro and Gensler appeared at a House Financial
Services Committee hearing on May 11, pledging to implement
“circuit breakers” to shut down trading in periods of market
stress.  In addition to a circuit-breaker pilot program, regulators
have restricted use of “stub quotes” -- placeholder trades at
prices far outside of current prices that aren’t intended to be
completed.  Reed and Levin said they are weighing additional measures,
including cross-market and cross-product circuit breakers,
deeper disclosure of transactions and consolidating trading data
from multiple venues.  “It is urgent that we introduce additional safeguards as
well as strengthen oversight of our fractured markets to restore
investor confidence,” Levin said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Hamilton  in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 