-- German Exports Unexpectedly Declined in October as Euro-Area Demand Eased
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2010-12-08T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/german-exports-unexpectedly-declined-in-october-as-euro-area-demand-eased.html
German  exports  unexpectedly dropped
in October as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis and a cooling
global economy curbed demand.  Sales abroad , adjusted for working days and seasonal
changes, fell 1.1 percent from September, when they rose 3
percent, the  Federal Statistics Office  in Wiesbaden said today.
Economists had forecast stagnation in October, according to the
median of 14 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey .  Imports  rose
0.3 percent.  Austerity measures across the euro region are eroding
demand for German goods in the country’s biggest export market.
Factory orders from within the single-currency area dropped for
a second month in October, the Economy Ministry said yesterday.
Still, unemployment at an 18-year low is boosting consumption at
home, putting the recovery in Europe’s largest economy on a
firmer footing.  “Exports will slow considerably just as domestic demand
picks up,” said Costa Brunner, an economist at Natixis in
Frankfurt. “Rising employment is boosting private consumption
and wage deals suggest disposable incomes will rise.”  Exports increased 19.8 percent in October from a year
earlier, today’s report showed. Sales to countries within the
16-member euro area rose 12.7 percent in the year, while
shipments to countries outside the European Union gained 28.4
percent.  Trade Surplus  The trade surplus narrowed to 14.2 billion euros ($18.8
billion) in October from 16.8 billion euros in September. The
surplus in the current account, a measure of all trade including
services, was 11.7 billion euros, down from 14.5 billion euros
in September.  German exports may be further damped as countries such as
Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain struggle to contain the debt
crisis. The International Monetary Fund also forecasts slower
global growth, with the world economy predicted to expand 4.2
percent next year after 4.8 percent this year.  “Exports will enter more moderate territory but it doesn’t
look like there will be a slump,” said  Arnd Schaefer , an
economist at West LB in Dusseldorf. “Signs are pointing to
normalization after stellar performances previously.”  As global trade weakens and Germany’s labor market
recovers, expansion of the 2.5-trillion-euro economy will be
increasingly driven by domestic spending.  Volkswagen AG , Europe’s largest carmaker, said on Dec. 6 it
may add 50,000 jobs globally by 2015, with around 10 percent of
those in Germany. German business confidence surged to a record
high in November and retail sales jumped the most in nearly
three years in October.  The economy will expand 3.6 percent this year, the
Bundesbank predicted last week. That would be the fastest growth
since records for a reunified Germany began in 1992.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jana Randow  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  