-- German Production Jumped More Than Forecast in October on Machinery Demand
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 2010-12-08T11:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/german-production-jumped-more-than-forecast-in-october-on-machinery-demand.html
Industrial production  in Germany,
Europe’s largest economy, rose almost three times as much as
economists forecast in October, led by demand for investment
goods such as machinery.  Production jumped 2.9 percent from September, when it fell
a revised 1 percent, the  Economy Ministry  in Berlin said today.
That’s the biggest increase since May. Economists had forecast a
gain of 1 percent, the median of 40 estimates in a  Bloomberg
News survey  showed. From a year earlier,  output  increased 11.7
percent when adjusted for the number of work days, after rising
a revised 7.7 percent in September.  Germany’s economy has powered euro-region growth as
companies boosted hiring and output to meet global demand.
 Business confidence  surged to a record in November and the
Bundesbank last week forecast the economy to expand at the
fastest pace in almost two decades this year. Still, the euro-
region recovery may slow in 2011 as governments step up
austerity measures, the European Commission said on Nov. 29.  “The data point to further robust growth in the last
quarter of the year,” said  Ralph Solveen , head of economic
research at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “The economy is still
on a strong footing even with the growth momentum weakening in
the coming months.”  The euro was little changed after the release, trading at
$1.3231 at 12:23 p.m. in Frankfurt, down from $1.3261 yesterday.
It has depreciated 7.6 percent against the dollar this year,
boosting exports by making them more competitive.  Manufacturing Output  Manufacturing output rose 3.2 percent in October from the
previous month, when it dropped 0.8 percent, today’s report
showed. Output of investment goods increased 4.6 percent in the
month and production of durable consumer goods gained 2.7
percent. Construction output increased 1.3 percent while energy
production fell 0.3 percent, the ministry said.  “The production trend within the industrial sector remains
tilted to the upside,” the ministry said in the statement.  While Germany’s recovery is becoming more broad-based as
consumers step up spending, it’s also widening the gap with
euro-area nations such as Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain,
which are struggling to push down budget deficits.  “Over the medium-term, spending cuts in peripheral
countries will hurt German exports,” said  Mario Gruppe , an
economist at NordLB in Hanover, Germany. “But the underlying
German expansion trend shouldn’t be massively distorted.”  Exports Drop  A separate report today showed that German  exports 
unexpectedly dropped in October.  Sales abroad , adjusted for
working days and seasonal changes, fell 1.1 percent from
September, when they rose 3 percent, the  Federal Statistics
Office  in Wiesbaden said.  Germany’s gross domestic product will rise 3.6 percent in
2010, 2 percent in 2011 and 1.5 percent in 2012, the  Bundesbank 
said Dec. 3. The European Commission in Brussels last month
forecast the euro-region economy to expand 1.7 percent this year
and 1.5 percent in 2011, with Germany driving growth.  Mercedes-Benz and German rival  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG 
will both shorten Christmas breaks at their factories because of
surging demand for new models, the companies said last month.  “Production capacity is the limiting factor at the
moment,”  Michael Rebstock , a spokesman for BMW, said in a phone
interview. “We are producing as much as we can and are happy
for every additional shift we can get.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  