-- Gerry Weber Aims for Profit Boost From Cost Cuts, Expansion in Wholesale
-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 2010-12-08T11:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/gerry-weber-international-plans-higher-profitability-on-labor-wholesale.html
     Dec. 8 (Bloomberg) --  Gerry Weber International AG, 
Germany’s second-largest maker of women’s clothing, aims to
improve profitability in the next two years by reducing
purchasing costs and expanding its wholesale business.  Earnings before interest and taxes as a proportion of sales
will rise to 14 percent in the year through October 2011 and 15
percent in fiscal 2012, Chief Executive Officer  Gerhard Weber 
said yesterday in a phone interview. The margin was 12 percent
in 2009 and targeted at 13 percent in the year ended Oct. 31.
The company will release full-year figures in January.  Gerry Weber, based in Halle in the state of North Rhine-
Westphalia, is increasingly shifting production from China to
countries where labor is cheaper, including North Korea,
Bangladesh and Vietnam, according to the CEO. The  clothier ,
which ranks second in Germany to Street One-brand owner CBR
Fashion Holding GmbH, also aims to boost wholesale operations by
choosing fashion collections for more retail partners.  “Other clothiers aren’t able to shift production from one
country to another as quickly as we do,” the CEO said. The
company’s technical experts have the experience to start
production sites quickly while ensuring high quality and labor
standards, he said.  Stock Rises  Gerry Weber rose as much as 1.1 percent to 37.50 euros and
was up 0.4 percent as of 12:53 p.m. in Frankfurt trading. The
stock has  risen  65 percent this year, giving the company a
market value of 855 million euros ($1.1 billion), in the fourth-
biggest gain on the 13-company  Bloomberg EMEA Apparel Index .  The company obtained 66 percent of its women’s wear from
Asia in 2009, mainly from China, while 29 percent was
manufactured in Turkey, according to the  annual report . Wages at
privately owned companies in China will rise by as much as 17
percent annually in the next three years, according to Deutsche
Bank AG estimates.  The clothier generated nine-month  revenue  of 304.5 million
euros at the wholesale business, a decline of 0.4 percent from a
year earlier. That compares with a 22 percent revenue increase
at Gerry Weber’s own stores to 124.7 million euros. The Taifun
and Samoon brands accounted for most of the sales decline at the
wholesale unit, the CEO said.  Wholesaling Strategy  Converting more wholesale buyers into “trust limited
customers,” who set order limits but don’t decide on the range
of clothes they get from the company, will help improve both
revenue and  profitability  at the unit, Gerhard Weber said. The
number of retailers buying under trust limited agreements is
targeted in two years to rise to 2,800 chains and boutiques, or
two-thirds of Gerry Weber’s wholesale customers, from about 800
now, the CEO said.  “The trust limited customer principle is great as it
prevents merchandise returns,” which were among the reasons for
the insolvency of German clothing company Escada AG, said  Klaus Kraenzle , a consumer-industry analyst in Frankfurt at Silvia
Quandt & Cie.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Holger Elfes  in Dusseldorf, Germany, at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 