-- Goldman Said to Win $6 Billion Mortgage-Bond Trade
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-12-08T22:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/goldman-sachs-said-to-win-6-billion-of-mortgage-bonds-in-trade-this-month.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  is offering
 U.S. home-loan bonds  without government backing to investors
after acquiring about $6 billion in a single trade this month,
according to three people familiar with the matter.  The most-profitable securities firm in Wall Street history
won bidding for the debt after a limited competition that also
included  Morgan Stanley , according to the people who declined to
be identified because the transaction was private.  State Street
Corp.  sold the notes, possibly on behalf of a customer, the
people said.  The purchase is a sign the largest brokers, which mostly
stopped making markets in the bonds as the global financial
crisis peaked in 2008, are being emboldened to carry bigger
inventories after values soared and buying and selling revived.  “That would be a massive trade, an attention-getter,”
said  David Castillo , senior managing director at San Francisco-
based broker Further Lane Securities. “There’s liquidity in the
market and a tremendous amount of cash that’s looking to be put
to work, though going into yearend, everybody wants to buy
cheaply.”  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment.  Mark Lake , a spokesman for Morgan
Stanley, also in New York, and  Carolyn Cichon , a spokeswoman for
Boston-based State Street, didn’t return messages.  Brokers last month conducted open auctions for almost $14
billion of home-loan bonds lacking guarantees from government-
supported Fannie Mae and Freddie Mae or federal agency Ginnie
Mae, according to  Empirasign Strategies LLC . Since the start of
July, the amount of securities offered through the process has
totaled $75 billion, with at least $11.5 billion failing to be
sold, according to the New York-based data provider.  Most Profitable  Outstanding debt in the market, which grew as large as $2.3
trillion in 2007, totals about $1.3 trillion, according to
Federal Reserve  data .  The securities, among the largest causes of the $1.8
trillion of writedowns and credit losses at the world’s largest
financial firms during the global crisis, have been among the
most profitable debt investments over the past year.  Some of the bonds returned about 16 percent, while fixed-
rate  subprime-mortgages securities  gained more than 24 percent
through November, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  