-- Guinea Junta Head Blocked From Return to Power by U.S., Allies, Cables Say
-- B y   J a s o n   M c L u r e
-- 2010-12-09T05:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/guinea-junta-leader-camara-blocked-from-returning-to-power-by-u-s-allies.html
The U.S., France and Morocco
maneuvered to keep former Guinean junta leader  Moussa Dadis Camara  out of power after an assassination attempt last year,
according to U.S. diplomatic cables published by WikiLeaks.  The cables are part of a trove of 250,000 classified State
Department documents obtained by WikiLeaks and published online.
They provide details of the extent to which the U.S., Morocco
and former colonial power France viewed Camara as a threat to
peace in  Guinea  and tried to stop him from returning to the
country.  Camara was “widely regarded as deranged and drug-addled,”
 wrote   Patricia Moller , U.S. ambassador to Guinea, in a Dec. 22,
2009, cable. The 46-year-old army captain had taken power in the
ethnically divided West African nation in December 2008
following the death of President  Lansana Conte , promising to
hold elections after a two-year transitional period.  Ten months later, security forces loyal to Camara killed at
least 150 anti-junta protesters in the capital, Conakry, and
raped dozens of women in a premeditated attack, according to
 Human Rights Watch , the New York-based advocacy group.  Guinea holds as much as half the world’s reserves of
bauxite, an ore used to make aluminum, more than 4 billion
metric tons of “high-grade” iron ore and “significant”
deposits of diamonds and gold, according to the State
Department. Three of its neighbors -- Sierra Leone,  Liberia  and
Ivory Coast -- have experienced civil wars in the past 10 years.  WikiLeaks, an organization that publishes secret documents
on its website, last week began posting what it says are more
than 250,000 State Department cables. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said Nov. 29 the disclosures could hurt negotiations and
endanger individuals.  Assange Arrested  WikiLeaks founder  Julian Assange  was arrested in the U.K.
yesterday on a Swedish warrant concerning rape allegations and
remains in custody pending an extradition hearing.  In the weeks after the September 2009 killings, the U.S.,
the African Union and France imposed sanctions on the junta,
including travel restrictions and the freezing of bank accounts.
On Dec. 3, 2009, one of Camara’s deputies  shot him  in the head.  Camara was flown to Morocco, where he arrived in a  coma ,
before doctors removed bullet fragments from his skull. By
January, Moroccan Foreign Minister  Taieb Fassi Fihri  told U.S.
diplomats Camara had “regained 80 percent of his faculties, but
has difficulty putting more than five words together without 30-
second pauses before the next phrase or sentence,” according to
a Jan. 8  cable  from Samuel Kaplan, the U.S. ambassador to
Morocco.  ‘Cut Off Hands’  A month after the assassination attempt, Camara was ready
to return home “to cut off hands and heads” to restore his
rule, according to a Jan. 15  cable  detailing remarks by Fihri to
U.S. diplomats.  Camara was put on a Moroccan medical flight the next day
thinking he would be taken to Conakry, according to the cables,
which were posted by  WikiLeaks  on Dec. 4. Instead he was flown
to  Burkina Faso , where he remains.  Megan Mattson, a spokeswoman for the State Department,
declined to comment when contacted Dec. 6 in Washington. Ismail
Chekkoriyou, a spokesman for Morocco’s mission to the United
Nations in New York, also declined comment when contacted Dec.
7. Tibou Kamara, the secretary-general of the Guinean
presidency, didn’t answer calls to his mobile phone yesterday.  During Camara’s hospitalization, the cables show, the U.S.,
France and other countries comprising the  International Contact
Group  on Guinea worked behind the scenes to keep him out of
power. They tried to persuade Burkina Faso’s President  Blaise Compaore , who was leading international efforts to end Guinea’s
political crisis, that Camara should be replaced as interim
president of the junta by then-Defense Minister  Sekouba Konate .  ‘A Sad Future’  “It will be better for Guinea if he does not return,”
Moller  wrote  in the Dec. 22, 2009, cable. “His erratic, violent
and unpredictable behavior and his similarly rapacious and
unstable cronies only foretell a sad future for Guinea.”  Guinea was fracturing along ethnic lines, a U.S. diplomat
in Rabat was  told  by an unidentified person, Camara had hired
South African and Israeli mercenaries and his militia, numbering
2,000 to 3,000 men, posed a threat to regional security,
according to a Dec. 17 cable.  While the U.S. and France backed Konate, Compaore and the
Moroccans were reluctant to embrace him as Camara’s successor.
Konate, who led the country through elections last month as
interim president, was viewed by Moroccan officials as a
“drunkard” and “weak,” according to cables sent from Rabat
by Deputy Chief of Mission Robert Jackson on Dec. 17 and Dec.
31, 2009. The U.S. Embassy in Morocco observed that Konate
“suffered from liver problems consistent with his intake of
large amounts of alcohol,” according to the Dec. 31 document.  Return Requested  Morocco kept Camara hospitalized in Rabat until Jan. 12,
though a Moroccan official told U.S. diplomats he had been well
enough to return “for at least three weeks, and his return had
been formally requested” by Guinea’s Foreign Ministry,
according to a Jan. 15 cable.  As Camara was readying to depart Morocco, the U.S. and
France asked the Moroccans not to allow him to leave on a plane
rented by some of his supporters in Guinea to return him to
Conakry, the document showed.  The Moroccans, with no legal basis to hold Camara and
anxious to be rid of him before the United Nations Security
Council considered a report on his involvement in the September
killings, put him on a medical plane bound for Burkina Faso.
“Dadis reportedly thought he was going to Conakry and was
calm,” according to the Jan. 15 cable from the U.S. Embassy in
Morocco.  Alpha Conde , a former political science professor, won
Guinea’s Nov. 7 presidential run-off election, an announcement
which led to an outbreak of ethnic violence in Conakry. Tensions
have eased since his opponent,  Cellou Dalein Diallo , conceded
defeat on Dec. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason McLure  in Accra at 
 jmclure@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 