-- Icahn's Four-Year Pursuit of Motorola Split Has Yet to Pay Off
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   R o d n e y   Y a p
-- 2010-12-08T21:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/icahn-waiting-for-profit-on-motorola-shares-after-four-year-spinoff-quest.html
Four years after he began agitating
for change at  Motorola Inc. ,  Carl Icahn  will get his wish Jan. 4
with the spinoff of its mobile-phone unit. He still hasn’t made
money on the investment, according to Bloomberg calculations.  Icahn’s stake in Motorola is worth at least $159 million
less than what he paid and perhaps several hundred million more,
according to calculations based on  regulatory filings . The
current value of his holdings is $2.17 billion.  The stock still has great potential with the spinoff
approaching and  Motorola  making progress in its mobile-phone
business, Icahn, 74, said in an interview.  “Even if there is a deficit, I have become a believer in
the two companies that are being separated,” he said. The split
is something “we have been strong proponents of for four years,
and I believe the separation will greatly enhance shareholder
value,” he said.  Icahn said he doesn’t run the numbers every day and
couldn’t comment on the estimates or say precisely where his
investment stands. Motorola shares trade at less than  half  their
level four years ago. He said he has bought shares more recently
at lower prices so his average cost per share has dropped.
Motorola’s stock has more than doubled from its low in 2008,
moving him closer to breaking even.  “That initial investment has not worked out, but he has
finally gotten Motorola to do what he wanted,” said  Tavis McCourt , an analyst at Morgan Keegan & Co. in Nashville,
Tennessee, who rates  Motorola  “outperform.” “Can the shares
get back to the value of where he made his original investments?
I doubt it. Can he get to a point where he is making money on
the total investment? That is definitely doable.”  Icahn’s History  Motorola  plans to spin off its mobile-phone and set-top box
units into a company called Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.,
leaving it with businesses that make bar-code scanners, walkie-
talkies and other emergency-communication equipment.  “We believe it’s still an inordinately cheap stock,”
Icahn said. “The greatest investments are made by understanding
simple facts. With Motorola it’s the fact that when you’re
buying the shares, you’re buying into the company without paying
for the mobile business.”  Icahn built his reputation as a corporate raider in the
1980s targeting companies such as Phillips Petroleum Co., Texaco
Inc. and Trans World Airlines Inc. He more recently sparred with
management at  Time Warner Inc.  and  Yahoo! Inc. , and is now
battling for control of  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios Inc. ,
distributor of James Bond and Rocky films. He often spends years
holding stocks as he waits for investments to pay off.  Regulatory Filings  Icahn disclosed a stake in Motorola in January 2007, first
pushing for a seat on the board and stock buybacks. At the time,
 Ed Zander  was chief executive officer and the company was the
world’s second-largest mobile-phone maker, behind  Nokia Oyj . In
the third quarter of this year, Motorola ranked seventh in the
industry, according to researcher Gartner Inc.  Icahn spent at least $3.52 billion buying Motorola stock
and sold over $1 billion since January 2007, based on  regulatory
filings  and Bloomberg calculations. The most conservative
estimate for his deficit uses the lowest price for purchases and
highest price for sales in each quarter, assuming that Icahn
always bought at the low in a quarter and always sold at the
period’s high. If he bought and sold at average prices in each
quarter, he would be down by about $700 million.  Icahn has raised his Motorola stake in seven quarters since
early 2007, including the past three, according to the filings.
He has also sold Motorola stock in three quarters, though not
since the last three months of 2008. The filings disclose prices
for some though not all of his transactions.  Icahn vs. Motorola  Motorola  rose 14 cents to $8.23 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have climbed 6.1 percent
this year. Motorola had no comment on Icahn’s investment,
according to spokeswoman  Jennifer Erickson .  In May 2007, Icahn’s pitch for a seat on Motorola’s board
was defeated by shareholders. He kept buying stock and began
pressuring the company to split in two to unlock what he saw as
hidden value for shareholders.  Motorola first announced a plan to spin off its mobile-
phone business in March 2008, though it was delayed amid the
global recession.  Sanjay Jha  joined from Qualcomm Inc. to lead
the mobile-phone business and has rebuilt the unit around
smartphones that use Google Inc.’s Android software.  In an interview in June, Jha said Icahn, now the company’s
 largest shareholder , has been a “force for good” at Motorola.  “Carl is seen as an agitator, but in this instance I think
he’s agitated in the right ways,” Jha said at the time.  Icahn, for his part, has also begun to praise  Motorola’s
management , four years after he attacked it.  “Motorola needed a guy like a Sanjay who understands
business and also how to turn it around,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
 Rodney Yap  in Los Angeles at 
 ryap@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  