-- Iceland Cuts Benchmark Rate to 4.5% as Inflation Declines to Six-Year Low
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2010-12-08T11:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/iceland-cuts-benchmark-rate-to-4-5-as-inflation-declines-to-six-year-low.html
Iceland’s central bank cut its main
interest rate by 1 percentage point as the western nation
hardest hit by the global financial crisis emerges from its 2008
banking failure, allowing the $12 billion economy to stabilize.  Sedlabanki lowered the seven-day collateral lending rate to
4.5 percent, the Reykjavik-based bank said on its website today.
The bank also cut the  deposit rate  to 3.5 percent from 4
percent. Policy makers have reduced the benchmark 14 times from
a record 18 percent since obtaining a $4.6 billion loan from a
group led by the International Monetary Fund at the end of 2008.  A stable krona may allow policy makers to keep cutting
interest rates, the bank said today. “The appreciation of the
króna, declining inflation expectations, and the slack in the
economy continue to contribute to low and stable inflation,”
the bank said.  Capital controls have protected the krona from a sell-off
and allowed the island’s trade surplus to support the exchange
rate. The currency has gained 21 percent against the euro over
the past year, while the annual  inflation  rate fell 0.7 point to
2.6 percent last month, the lowest in six years. The central
bank, which has led the world in rate cuts this year, says it
won’t start easing capital controls until March 2011 at the
earliest.  The krona gained 0.1 percent to 151.80 at 11:20 a.m. in
Reykjavik. The currency has appreciated 3 percent against the
euro since an Oct. 22 low.  ‘Considerable’ Cut  “Most of the conditions are in place for a considerable
interest rate cut” because “everything indicates that the
government intends to remove the capital controls slowly next
year,” said  Ingolfur Bender , head of research at Islandsbanki
hf, in a note before the rate announcement.  The economy grew last quarter for the first time in two
years as exports support its recovery. Gross domestic product
expanded 1.2 percent in the third quarter from the second, the
statistics office said yesterday.  “The economy is expected to hit bottom in the next few
months,” Bender said. “The pre-conditions for growth have been
re-established after a massive correction.”  The failure of Kaupthing Bank hf, Landsbanki Islands hf and
Glitnir Bank hf more than two years ago precipitated an 80
percent decline in the krona against the euro offshore. Iceland
resorted to capital controls to protect the economy after
allowing its banks to fail.  Ireland Contrast  Iceland’s policies for dealing with its crisis are in
contrast to those chosen by euro members Greece and Ireland,
also relying on IMF-led bailouts to stay afloat. Ireland last
month agreed an 85 billion euro ($112 billion) international
loan to help rescue its banks, forcing taxpayers to foot the
bill of supporting the lenders.  According to President  Olafur R. Grimsson , the decision to
let Iceland’s banks fail is helping the economy to rebound.  “The state did not shoulder the responsibility of the
failed private banks,” he said in a Nov. 26 interview with
Bloomberg Television’s  Mark Barton . Deciding who should bear the
cost of banking failure is becoming a “burning” question in
Europe, Grimsson said.  Creditors in Iceland’s failed banks are still trying to
recoup $85 billion. Kaupthing bondholders can expect to get 26
cents per euro back on their investment, according to brokerage
H.F. Verdbref hf.  In Limbo  The island’s capital controls have left foreigners holding
krona-denominated assets in limbo. The central bank estimates
foreigners are locked into about $3.6 billion -- mostly in the
form of krona-denominated bonds issued outside the island --that
can’t be exchanged until the capital controls are lifted. The
Eurobonds, known as Glacier bonds, will probably be the last to
be freed from currency restrictions, Governor  Mar Gudmundsson 
said in September. Bonds with the longest maturities will be
exempt first, Deputy Governor Arnor Sighvatsson said.  The economy will return to growth in 2011, the central bank
estimates, as the island emerges from its longest period of
economic decline since gaining independence from Denmark in
1944.  The IMF finished its third review of Iceland’s economic
program in September, freeing a $167.5 million payment. The
fund’s fourth review is scheduled for December, Prime Minister
 Johanna Sigurdardottir  said in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Omar R. Valdimarsson  in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net . 