-- Microsoft Wins Largest Federal Contract for Cloud
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2010-12-08T21:19:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/microsoft-wins-largest-u-s-government-deal-for-cloud-computing-software.html
Microsoft Corp.  won a contract to
provide Web-based e-mail and other services to the U.S.
Department of Agriculture, making headway in efforts to gain
share in the growing market for cloud computing.  The federal agency will move 120,000 users to the company’s
Internet-based e-mail and conferencing software, said Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft. The company said it beat out Google
Inc. and  International Business Machines Corp.  for the deal and
the department confirmed it looked at all of the available
competing options.  Technology companies are racing to lure customers that want
computing delivered over the Internet from an outside provider,
via the so-called cloud. The contract, which also involves
instant messaging and document-sharing programs, is the largest
U.S. government adoption of cloud software, Microsoft Vice
President  Ron Markezich  said in an interview.  The department chose Microsoft because half its workers
already use Microsoft’s Exchange e-mail software, Chris Smith,
 chief information officer  for the Agriculture Department, said
in an interview. Because cloud programs are typically stored on
the provider’s server, customers can save money on machines and
the cost of maintaining and updating the software.  “It gets us out of the hardware business and ultimately
out of the software-refresh business,” Smith said. “It gets us
out the business of owning the car, changing the oil, and doing
the upkeep.”  Microsoft  gained  36 cents to $27.23 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have declined 11
percent this year.  Google’s Recent Win  Smith said the department will pay about $8 per user per
mailbox and is aiming to save $6 million next year. Microsoft’s
Markezich declined to comment on the value of the deal, which
will be administered by  Dell Inc.   Google  said today it wasn’t given a chance to bid on the
contract. “When there has been a full and open competition --as
with the General Services Administration, Wyoming, Colorado and
Los Angeles -- customers have chosen Google Apps, and taxpayers
are saving millions of dollars,” the Mountain View, California-
based company said in an e-mail.  Google said last week that it beat out Microsoft for a $6.7
million contract to handle e-mail for the U.S. GSA. In October,
New York City and the state of California opted for Microsoft’s
cloud software, while Minnesota announced a similar agreement
the previous month.  Google Lawsuit  Google sued the U.S. Interior Department in October,
claiming it didn’t have the opportunity to compete for a
messaging-software contract because the bid request specified a
particular Microsoft product.  IBM also said it didn’t bid for the Department of
Agriculture contract, according to spokesman Steve Tomasco.  Global cloud-computing  sales  may reach $148.8 billion by
the end of 2014, up from $58.6 billion last year, according to
researcher Gartner Inc. in Stamford, Connecticut.  The U.S. government has been quick to move programs to the
cloud model because  Vivek Kundra , chief information officer for
the U.S., has pushed federal, state and local governments to
look at the option as a way to save money as they update and
consolidate systems, Markezich said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dina Bass  in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  