-- Hideaways Club to Triple Villas in Four Years on Asia Luxury-Travel Demand
-- B y   W e n d y   L e u n g
-- 2010-12-08T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/hideaways-club-to-triple-villas-in-4-years-on-asia-luxury-demand.html
Hideaways Club , a luxury property
investment fund, plans to more than triple the number of its
villas worldwide to 100 within four years, helped by higher real
estate prices and Asian demand for luxury travel.  The company plans to build 20 in Asia within the period,
including in Cambodia, Japan, Sri Lanka and the Indonesian
island of Bali, Chairman Michael Balfour said in an interview in
Hong Kong. Hideaways, which has 30 villas around the world, also
will expand next year into China, an “incredibly large”
market, he said.  Hideaways targets wealthy people and senior executives,
whose investment grants them equity ownership in the fund and
six weeks’ stay in the villas each year. The fund, which
projects annual share returns of about 6.5 percent, expects Asia
to account for 30 percent of membership in three years, double
the level in 2010, Balfour said.  “Asia property investment is rocketing,” Balfour said
Dec. 1. The executive co-founded Gibraltar-registered Hideaways
three years ago and  co-founded  the  Fitness First  health-club
chain almost two decades ago.  The amount of cash needed for a family to pursue a  “super
luxury”  lifestyle in China climbed 22 percent to 106 million
yuan ($16 million) this year, driven by higher property prices,
Shanghai-based Hurun Report Inc. said in June. For a family in
Shanghai, the amount includes $5.8 million for a luxury villa
and downtown apartment, according to Hurun, which tracks trends
among China’s wealthy and publishes a  list  of the country’s
richest people.  Hideaways has 200 investors who each pay a membership fee
of about $400,000 and an annual maintenance charge of 14,000
pounds ($22,000). It plans to introduce a fund holding 120
luxury city apartments targeting young businessmen in April,
with membership open from January, Balfour said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Wendy Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 wleung12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  