-- Imagine There Was No Shooting -- John Lennon at 70: Mark Beech
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2010-12-08T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/imagine-there-was-no-shooting-grumpy-john-lennon-turns-70-mark-beech.html
Imagine there was no shooting. It’s
easy if you try. No  Mark Chapman . Only  John , a bitter old guy.  You may say I’m a dreamer, but I’m certainly not the only
one: Lennon fans today face the 30th anniversary of his death.
Based on what we know from his short life, we can guess what the
ex-Beatle might have done, what causes he would have embraced,
what songs he would have written. My guess is that he would be a
cranky 70-year-old, a not-so-English eccentric, ridiculed by
many, still venerated by fans.  Not that the creative outlook was so good in 1981. Rock is
best born out of youthful passion and pain (in Lennon’s case,
“God” and “Help!”). He died a middle-aged millionaire,
mellowed by domestic bliss and extended vacations. On the sugary
“Double Fantasy” LP, he told his son Sean “I can hardly wait
to see you come of age,” a line now heavy with irony -- at the
time just cringe-worthy.  The best hope is that some headline or another would have
shaken Lennon’s complacency and fueled feverish bursts of music.
He was best when grumpy and outspoken. I suspect John would have
overcome technophobia to deliver his message fast: streaming
tracks, blogging and Twittering.  Most enticing was the prospect of a Beatles reunion.  Paul McCartney , carrying a guitar, showed up at the Dakota during
Lennon’s “househusband” years and was turned away. John was
baking bread and looking after the baby. Still, it’s easy to see
the “estranged fiances” joining again for a good cause.  Lennon always erratically pleased himself and didn’t care
what others thought. I think he’d have got more into vegetarian
and macrobiotic food (with lapses for fish and chips and Brandy
Alexanders) and hobbies (sailing, Beatles memorabilia). He’d
probably have written more books, loved Nirvana for its
uncompromising attack and attacked Oasis as copycats. Here’s
what might have happened.  Dec. 8, 1980: Lennon returns to the Dakota. He decides to
call his older son -- John had just said in an interview he was
sorry to have missed out on the boy’s growing up. He promises
 Julian  a motorbike for Christmas. After a long chat, it’s late:
the Lennons stay in for a TV dinner.  1984: Lennon gleefully joins  Bob Geldof ’s Band Aid.  1985: The Beatles reunite to sing “Across the Universe”
at Live Aid. In subsequent years, Lennon plays with U2 and  Bob Dylan  at the Live 8 and Live Earth concerts, then declares he’s
“bored with the whole charity thing.”  1986: Lennon re-records “Give Peace a Chance” and attacks
 Ronald Reagan ,  Margaret Thatcher  and yuppies. He starts
campaigning for  Nelson Mandela ’s release.  British Tea  1991: While Lennon’s accent is now trans-Atlantic, he
misses “things like British tea.” He buys a house in London,
though spends more time in the U.S. and Bermuda.  1995: McCartney asks for Lennon’s help with a Beatles
compilation. The band jams at  George Harrison ’s studio until
 Ringo Starr  falls asleep and the others argue. The project is
shelved.  1997: McCartney is knighted. Lennon says “Once I’d have
been disgusted. Now, if it makes him happy, that’s cool.”  2001: Lennon completes the unfinished Beatles reunion album
with  Phil Spector . After Harrison dies, it’s released as a
tribute under the title “Free as a Bird.”  2003: Lennon gets his 15th honorary doctorate and releases
his 20th CD, “Crosspatch,” a plea for the environment.  2008: Lennon campaigns for the election of  Barack Obama ,
“my chum.” Wearing a fedora over thinning gray hair, he sings
“Imagine” at the 2009 inauguration. The relationship is later
strained when Lennon demands free organic food for the homeless.  2009: The Lennon- Ono  marriage, which he says could have
ended in tears, marks its 40th anniversary with a new version of
his song “Grow Old With Me,” now a standard at weddings.  Today, Dec. 8, 2010: An ordinary day in the Lennon
household. Julian calls his dad to say that it was exactly three
decades ago they were reconciled: He has cherished the motorbike
and wants to sell it for a charity run by  Bono . Lennon gives his
blessing and decides to head for the studio.  ( Mark Beech  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Mark Beech  in London at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net  or Mark_Beech on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 