-- Strauss-Kahn Says Europe's Turmoil `Far From Over', Situation `Troubling'
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2010-12-08T18:28:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/imf-s-strauss-kahn-says-europe-still-in-troubling-situation.html
Europe, where a debt crisis prompted
bailouts of Greece and  Ireland  this year, remains in a
“troubling” situation, the head of the International Monetary
Fund said.  The effects of the global financial turmoil “are far from
over,” IMF Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said today
in Geneva, according to a copy of his prepared remarks. “The
situation in Europe remains troubling and the future is more
uncertain than ever.”  The Washington-based lender is set to take part in
Ireland’s 85-billion euro ($113 billion) rescue package, agreed
to on Nov. 28 with European governments, seven months after
Greece’s 110-billion euro bailout. The  European Central Bank  has
stepped up buying bonds from the region’s most-indebted
countries to prevent the market rout from spreading.  In Athens yesterday, Strauss-Kahn criticized the EU’s
“case-by-case method” for dealing with countries facing
unsustainable borrowing costs and recommended instead a
“comprehensive” solution to the debt crisis.  Europe is not out of the crisis and “needs a coordinated
economic policy and we have not reached that level yet,” he
told an audience of 2,000 people during a two-hour debate on
global economic governance today with World Trade Organization
Director-General  Pascal Lamy .  ‘Little Done’  He said he didn’t see the euro as being jeopardized, adding
that he expects the 16-country currency to exist in five years.  Strauss-Kahn said that beyond reforming banking regulation,
“the Greek and Irish experiences revealed the need for crisis
resolution tools,” an area of work on which, along with
supervision, “little has been done.”  Looking at the rest of the world, Strauss-Kahn, a former
French finance minister in the 1990s, said that the situation of
the U.S. “is less certain” than other regions, indicating it
will be necessary to see how the fourth quarter pans out.  In an introduction speech that retraces the shifts in
global governance over the past two years, including the
increased role of the Group of 20 nations and of his
institution, Strauss-Kahn called for a supervision of the
financial sector “that is not afraid of saying no to powerful
interests.”  ‘Resolution Mechanisms’  Resolution mechanisms for failing financial institutions is
also one of the key elements to be prepared if another financial
crisis hits, he said.  The financial sector has to “shoulder a substantial yet
fair share of the costs that risk-taking imposes on the
economy,” he said, pointing to a tax on financial activities
proposed by the  IMF  “so far without success.”  “There is no certainty whatsoever that if a similar crisis
occurred, that parliaments would be prepared to cough up
billions” to save the financial system, he said. “Are
taxpayers going to be ready to finance such a thing? It’s
uncertain.”  He compared today’s challenge with that faced by the IMF
founders in 1944, who aimed to secure peace by achieving higher
and sustainable growth.  “Today, as in the past, when economic and financial
problems worsen, they upset the social balance, undermine
democracy, weaken trust in institutions, and can degenerate into
war, civil or foreign,” he said. Making global economic
governance more legitimate means policy makers “are working for
peace.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
 Jennifer M. Freedman  in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 