-- Indian Police Search Former Telecom Minister Raja's Homes as Probe Widens
-- B y   S u b r a m a n i a m   S h a r m a   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2010-12-08T07:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/india-crime-bureau-raids-homes-of-former-minister-as-telecom-probe-widens.html
Indian investigators searched homes
of former telecommunications minister Andimuthu Raja, who is at
the center of a federal probe into a multibillion-dollar auction
of mobile-phone licenses.  Raja’s residences in the nation’s capital and the southern
state of Tamil Nadu were raided by the  Central Bureau of
Investigation , the agency’s spokesman, R.K. Gaur, said by phone
today from New Delhi. Houses of a former telecommunications
secretary, Raja’s personal secretary and two other officials of
the ministry were also combed, the Press Trust of India reported.
Raja couldn’t immediately be reached on his mobile phone.  Raja resigned from Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s cabinet
on Nov. 14, two days before India’s chief auditor said in a
report that a 2008 sale of airwaves at below-market prices may
have cost the state exchequer $31 billion.  Telenor ASA  and
Emirates Telecommunications Corp. were among operators that
purchased stakes in Indian companies the auditor said weren’t
qualified for the licenses.  “Once the investigations are completed, we will have more
certainty on what’s going to happen in the telecom sector,”
said  Kunal Bajaj , who heads Analysys Mason India Pvt., a
telecommunications strategy consulting, in New Delhi. “We’ll
know what’s legal and what isn’t.”  Parliament Stalled  India’s parliament has been stalled for close to a month as
opposition members demand a cross-party probe into the spectrum
allocation. Raja is a member of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam
party, a key member of Singh’s ruling coalition. The  Supreme
Court  is hearing public interest petitions on the alleged
irregularities.  The government sold wireless airwaves in 2008 for 123.9
billion rupees ($2.7 billion), though they were worth as much as
1.5 trillion rupees, the  Comptroller and Auditor General of
India  said in its report. Raja has denied any wrongdoing.  The government last month said it will ask companies that
won some of the permits to respond within two months to an audit
that found they fraudulently bought the licenses in 2008 by
suppressing facts and submitted fictitious documents. The
Telecom Regulatory Authority of India said last month that it
recommended cancelation of 38 licenses awarded in January 2008
and scrutiny of 31 permits for not meeting obligations.  Loan Probe  The Supreme Court earlier this month criticized Raja for
ignoring advice from the law ministry and Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  over the sale. Singh’s office Nov. 20 filed an
affidavit with the court rejecting allegations he had put off  The CBI will complete its probe by March 31, its legal
counsel K.K. Venugopal told the Supreme Court on Nov. 22.  The agency, meanwhile, is also investigating 16 billion
rupees of loans extended by Life Insurance Corp. of India and
 LIC Housing Finance Ltd. , a finance ministry official said Nov.
27, declining to be identified. The CBI arrested  Ramachandran R. Nair , chief executive officer of LIC Housing Finance, and seven
other bank and brokerage officials on Nov. 24 as part of the
probe.  Uflex Ltd., a New Delhi-based maker of packaging material,
yesterday said a special court convicted Chairman  Ashok Chaturvedi  in a land allotment probe by the CBI.  Pradeep Tyle ,
chief executive officer didn’t respond to calls on his mobile
phone today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Subramaniam Sharma  in New Delhi at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net ;
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  