-- India Inflation Above `Tolerance Level,' Subbarao Says Before Rate Meeting
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2010-12-09T10:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/india-inflation-above-tolerance-level-subbarao-says-before-rate-meeting.html
India’s inflation remains above
“tolerance level,” central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said
ahead of the monetary policy announcement next week.  “ Inflation  is coming down but is still above the RBI’s
tolerance level,” Subbarao told reporters in the eastern Indian
city of Kolkata yesterday. India’s benchmark wholesale-price
inflation cooled to a nine-month low of 8.58 percent in October.
The Reserve Bank of India aims to slow inflation to between 4
percent and 4.5 percent.  The central bank said Nov. 2 that it probably won’t raise
interest rates until January, giving itself time to see the
impact of its six interest-rate increases this year. A cash
crunch at banks after companies including  Coal India Ltd.  raised
funds from share sales may also prompt Subbarao to keep
borrowing costs unchanged for now, said Shubhada Rao, chief
economist at Yes Bank Ltd. in Mumbai.  “The message is that the RBI continues to remain vigilant
about inflation,” Rao said. “The RBI will hold rates in its
Dec. 16 meeting as it waits to see the impact of its previous
rate increases on inflation.”  Yields Drop  The yield on the 10-year government bond dropped three
basis points to 7.8 percent at 2:03 p.m. in Mumbai after
Subbarao said today that the central bank was “deeply
conscious” of the liquidity situation at banks.  Commercial banks borrowed an average 800.7 billion rupees
($17.7 billion) this quarter using the RBI’s  repurchase-auction 
window, compared with 239 billion rupees in the previous three
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, indicating
shortage of funds with lenders.  “We are studying the issue and we will take some steps as
may be necessary but I cannot say what and when,” Subbarao told
reporters in Kolkata after the central bank’s board meeting.
“We were expecting that government cash balances would come
down and that would ease the liquidity situation. As much as the
government has started spending, that has not been on a scale
large enough to ease the liquidity situation.”  The central bank said Dec. 6 it will buy back today bonds
due in 2016, 2017, 2020 and 2022 to inject cash in the banking
system.  The rupee weakened 0.2 percent to 45.16 against the dollar,
while the Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  declined 1.9
percent to 19,316.31.  Policy Stance  Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn told reporters in Kolkata that
the central bank isn’t signaling a change in monetary policy
stance because of the cash crunch. He said rising global
commodity prices may complicate inflation management.  Food  inflation  in India accelerated to 8.69 percent in the
week ended Nov. 27 from near a 1 1/2-year low of 8.6 percent in
the previous week, the commerce ministry said in a statement in
New Delhi today.  The Reserve Bank on Nov. 2 increased the benchmark
 repurchase  rate by a quarter point to 6.25 percent and the
reverse repurchase rate by the same margin to 5.25 percent. It
forecast  inflation  to slow to 5.5 percent by March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Unni Krishnan  in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  