-- Indonesian Stock Index May Rise 20% on Sovereign Rating Upgrade, BNP Says
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2010-12-08T06:37:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/indonesian-stock-index-may-rise-20-on-sovereign-rating-upgrade-bnp-says.html
Indonesia’s  benchmark stock index  may
rise 20 percent within a year on an expected upgrade of the
nation’s sovereign debt rating to investment grade, according to
BNP Paribas.  A re-rating of Indonesia’s debt will have “far-reaching
implications in interest-rate structure, currency, investments
and, ultimately, asset prices and valuations,” analyst Elvira
Tjandrawinata wrote in a report today, rating Indonesian shares
“overweight.” BNP set a 12-month target of 4,500 for the
 Jakarta Composite index , with recommendations including  PT Astra
International  and  PT Bank Mandiri .  Faster economic growth and record-low interest rates helped
the Jakarta Composite gain 48 percent this year, the best
performance among Asia’s 10 biggest markets. The index is
trading at 18 times  estimated earnings , the highest level since
December 2007. Moody’s Investors Service said Dec. 1 it may
upgrade Indonesia’s credit rating, citing economic
“resilience” and sustained macroeconomic “balance.”  “Despite outperforming its peers in the region this year,
we do not believe that the benefits of the re-rating have been
fully priced in,” Tjandrawinata said. “Other catalysts could
include a continued pickup in investments, which would feed into
consumption, making it stronger and more sustainable.”  Record Low  Southeast Asia’s biggest economy may expand as much as 6.5
percent in 2011 from an estimated 6 percent this year, the
central bank said on Dec. 6.  Bank Indonesia  has kept its key
interest rate at a record low of 6.5 percent for 16 months,
helping companies such as Astra, Indonesia’s biggest automotive
retailer, boost sales. The Jakarta Composite index rose 0.9
percent to 3,754.91 as of the 12 p.m. local time break.  Indonesia and other Asian nations face “significant
headwinds” from inflation in the first half and a “difficult
absolute-returns environment until inflation and interest rates
peak in mid-2011,” Jonathan Garner, Morgan Stanley’s Hong Kong-
based chief Asian and emerging-market strategist, said Dec. 1.  Indonesia’s consumer price index in November gained 6.33
percent from a year earlier, the central statistics office said
Dec. 1. That compares with a 5.98 percent median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Inflationary pressure
will probably continue next year,  Bank Indonesia  Governor Darmin
Nasution said.  Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services both rate
Indonesia two levels below investment grade, with a positive
outlook, while Fitch Ratings has the country one step below.  “We are convinced that the re-rating is on track,” BNP’s
report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Taipei at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
 Berni Moestafa  in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  