-- Mine-Safety Measure Giving U.S. Regulator More Powers Fails to Pass House
-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 2010-12-08T21:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/mine-safety-measure-giving-u-s-regulator-more-powers-fails-to-pass-house.html
Legislation giving regulators
expanded power to shut mines with repeated safety violations,
such as the  Massey Energy Co . mine where 29 coal miners died
this year, failed to pass in the House of Representatives.  Lawmakers voted 214-193 for the bill, less than the two-
thirds majority needed for expedited action today after the
 National Association of Manufacturers  fought the additional
regulations on companies. Republicans, who take control of the
House next month, opposed the measure and don’t plan to consider
it in the new Congress.  The measure, approved by the House Labor and Education
Committee in July, would have boosted penalties for some types
of mine-safety violations and added protections for
whistleblowers who report safety lapses. It would expand
subpoena powers of the Mine Safety and Health Administration and
provide additional pay protection for employees unable to work
when violations lead regulators to close a mine.  “There are life-threatening gaps in our mine safety
laws,” said Representative  George Miller , a California Democrat
and sponsor of the measure. “We’ve tried it the other way, with
self-enforcement, and it doesn’t work.”  Lawmakers and regulators have been examining steps to boost
safety after an April 5 explosion ripped Massey’s Upper Big
Branch mine in Montcoal, West Virginia, the worst U.S. mine
accident in 40 years. The mine has been cited by regulators for
deficiencies in ventilation and for buildups of combustible coal
dust before the explosion.  Manufacturer Opposition  Business groups led by the National Association of
Manufacturers said the bill would limit appeals by employers and
lacked incentives for companies to improve workplace safety
programs. “It seeks to create a solution to a problem we don’t
fully understand,” said Representative  Brett Guthrie , a
Kentucky Republican.  Massey is challenging the mine-safety agency over
ventilation requirements at Upper Big Branch. The company said
in a June lawsuit that MSHA rejected a system that it said would
have aided workers and forced installation of a complex setup in
an area where miners are working at the time of the blast.  Regulators are seeking to change a system in which Massey
and other mining companies appeal safety violations to delay or
avoid safety enforcement actions.  The legislation is H.R. 6495.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Holly Rosenkrantz  in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 