-- Infineon Imagines Electric Cars With Joysticks as Auto-Chip Market Expands
-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 2010-12-08T23:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/infineon-mulls-cars-with-joysticks-to-beat-automobile-chip-market-growth.html
At  Infineon Technologies AG ’s lab in
Neubiberg, south of Munich, engineers are mulling the idea of an
electric car that’s steered with a joystick.  “If you steer a car today, there’s still a mechanical
connection with the wheel,” Jochen Hanebeck, head of Europe’s
second-largest chipmaker’s  automotive unit , said in an
interview. “The vision would be that you ultimately drive by
joystick.”  A joystick-driven car is just a germ of an idea for now at
Infineon, whose chips are found in everything from wind turbines
to Chinese rice cookers as it searches for growth. Infineon’s
auto unit, the company’s biggest, is pushing carmakers to ditch
mechanical parts for electronic components.  With the car industry facing relentless pressure to slash
costs, Infineon has the ear of companies from  Audi AG  to China’s
Chery Inc. that are looking to safely replace more expensive
mechanical parts. The automotive chip market is set to grow to
$26.3 billion in 2014 from as much as $15.1 billion last year, a
compound annual growth rate of about 12 percent, according to
researcher iSuppli. Infineon expects chip content in each car to
rise to $333 in 2016 from $251 in 2008.  The auto unit accounted for 38 percent of  Infineon’s sales 
from continuing operations in the year ended Sept. 30 -- after
it sold its wireless business to  Intel Corp.  Sales from the
business rose 51 percent to 1.26 billion euros ($1.32 billion).
Infineon expects revenue at the unit to expand 10 percent, with
Chief Executive Officer  Peter Bauer  estimating car production in
calendar year 2011 of about 74 million vehicles.  Shares Rebound  Shares of Infineon, based in Neubiberg, Germany,  have risen 
88 percent this year, making it the fourth-best performer on the
 Bloomberg World Semiconductor Index . During the previous two
years, the worldwide recession left the company struggling to
ring in profits and its  shares lost  46 percent.  Infineon’s auto unit growth has been driven by safety and
power chips, including those that manage airbags, power
steering, tire-pressure monitoring, gasoline engines and
transmissions. Electronics can also replace back-up mechanisms
that stop a car from rolling backwards when the brake is
released at an uphill traffic light, Hanebeck said.  As of 2009, Infineon had a  9 percent share  of the global
automotive semiconductor market, its top spot set to be taken by
the entity to be created by the merger of  NEC Corp.  and  Renesas
Electronics Corp. , which had a market share of 14.3 percent.  “It’s a very significant competitor in microcontrollers
but nothing that gives me sleepless nights,” Hanebeck said.  Chinese E-Bikes  The automotive unit has 900 products that each generates
100,000 euros in revenue a year, Hanebeck said at Infineon’s
investor day in June. It has as many as 20,000 customers.  “Infineon can nicely leverage its expertise in the
industrial segment into the automotive segment,” said  Guenther Hollfelder , a London-based analyst for UniCredit, who rates the
stock “buy.”  Infineon’s chips power wind turbines that are increasingly
popular as governments and companies seek environmentally
friendly energy supplies. Its microcontrollers power e-bikes. In
2009, about 25 million e-bikes were sold in China, the world’s
largest nation of cyclists, a third of them with Infineon chips.  Also in China, the company’s semiconductors made it into
induction rice cookers, table-top cooking plates and hot pots
that heat up instantly and are popular at Asian restaurants,
where the guests cook their own meal in the middle of the table.  Infineon’s biggest growth will come from its lead in chips
for fully electric and hybrid cars, Hanebeck said.  Wind Farms  “We already sell 10 million of these for industrial
applications like wind farms or solar power, and we started 10
years ago so we have a lead in the market,” Hanebeck said. We
just need to modify these products to fill the requirements of
an electric motor.”  From the $300 value of semiconductors in standard cars, the
chip value in electric and hybrid cars is expected to amount to
as much as $700 in 2016, he said. The company sells parts that
go into Chinese cars -- including those made by Chery and
Chongqing Changan Automobile Co. -- and in South Korea’s  Hyundai 
cars. In China, Infineon chips for electric cars will generate a
“small double-digit million euro revenue” this year, he said.  More electric cars on the roads will also mean revenue
potential for Infineon’s two other units, industrial and
multimarket and chip card security. The IMM unit could build the
infrastructure for car-charging stations and the CCP unit could
provide the secure payment cards.  “I’m confident we’ll outperform the market, just out of
evolutionary growth, including electrification,” Hanebeck said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ragnhild Kjetland  in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  