-- Irish Lawmakers Back Budget to Combat ‘Worst’ Crisis
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2010-12-08T14:06:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/irish-lawmakers-back-budget-as-lenihan-battles-country-s-worst-crisis-.html
Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan 
won the backing of lawmakers in the first votes on his 6
billion-euro budget ($8 billion) to tackle what he called the
“worst crisis in our history.”  Lawmakers late yesterday passed an initial series of votes
on the 2011 budget in  parliament  in Dublin. A vote on the social
welfare cuts will probably take place tomorrow after a debate
scheduled to begin later today. Lenihan said budget is the first
step to get Ireland “back firmly on our own feet.”  The government is under pressure to pass the legislation to
secure an 85 billion-euro bailout as the fiscal squeeze
threatens to prolong a slump that has seen the economy shrink 11
percent over the past three years. The budget, the fourth since
October 2008, adds to austerity measures of about 14 billion
euros as the government seeks to reduce the country’s deficit.  “It’s naive to expect that Ireland is going to undertake
this scale of fiscal austerity without also suffering negative
growth for the next year or two,”  Ray Attrill , head of macro
strategy at Tallship Investments in Sydney, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “In Iceland, which has enormous parallels
with the implosion in Ireland, they are only now coming back
into growth two years after their own financial crisis.”  Ireland’s government forecasts growth of 1.7 percent in
2011 and 3.2 percent in 2012, led by exports, according to
 budget documents  published yesterday.  ‘Everybody Pays’  Lenihan said he’ll cut the salaries of government
ministers by 10,000 euros and cap state salaries at 250,000
euros. Internet gambling will be taxed and child benefit
payments will be cut by 10 euros per child.  Under the budget changes, a married couple with two
children earning a combined 92,000 euros will lose 2,830 euros a
year, or 4 percent of their income. A single person earning
52,000 euros loses 1,295 euros, also 4 percent of their income.  “Over the next four years, further reductions in social
welfare spending are unavoidable if we are to reduce the budget
deficit,” Lenihan said in his budget speech to lawmakers.
“Everybody pays, and those who can pay most, will pay most.”  Irish bonds rose today, narrowing the  yield premium  over
German bunds, Europe’s benchmark, to 501 basis points as of 1:46
p.m., the lowest in a month. The premium reached a euro-era
record 680 basis points on Nov. 30.  ‘Real Problem’  Ireland agreed on the aid package with the European Union
and the International Monetary Fund on Nov. 28 after borrowing
costs soared on investor concern the cost of rescuing lenders
including  Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  would overwhelm the state.
About 35 billion euros is earmarked for the banks, which pushes
the potential cost of rescuing lenders to as much as 83 billion
euros, more than half the size of the economy.  “Since Ireland’s real problem is one of excessive bank
debt, and is a sovereign problem only in so far as the
government has guaranteed the banks, tightening the squeeze on
the electorate will not resolve the underlying issues,” said
 Peter Dixon , an economist at Commerzbank in London. “We have
not heard the last of Ireland’s fiscal woes.”  The government sees the deficit falling below the EU limit
of 3 percent of gross domestic product in 2014 from about 12
percent this year. Including the cost of the bank rescue, the
deficit will amount to 32 percent of GDP this year. The debt-to-
GDP ratio will rise to 103 percent in 2013 before starting to
decline, the government forecasts.  Cowen has said he will hold elections as early as February,
once he’s secured support for the budget. He said he will lead
the party into the election, even as opinion polls show his
Fianna Fail party is set to lose power after 14 years.  Fine Gael and Labor will probably form the next government,
according to the polls. Both parties have said they’ll seek to
re-open the aid deal that Ireland agreed with the EU and IMF.  The budget “needed to have credibility,” said  Eoin Fahy ,
an economist at Kleinwort Benson Investors in Dublin. “It seems
to have met that objective although the banking system and the
political system remain the great unknowns.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
 Dara Doyle  in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  