-- Hitachi Leads Rare Earth Recycling Efforts as China Cuts Access to Supply
-- B y   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d ,   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 2010-12-08T08:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/hitachi-recycles-rare-earth-as-china-crimps-supply.html
It takes two  Hitachi Ltd.  workers
eight minutes to slice open the metal casing of the used air
conditioner compressor. The prize inside: four wafer-thin
magnets containing about 30 grams of rare earth metals.  Hitachi, Japan’s third- biggest company , uses as much as 600
tons of rare earth metals each year in products including motors
like those in Toyota Motor Corp.’s Prius hybrid. Hitachi is one
of hundreds of manufacturers depending on rare earth shipments
from China, which controls 97 percent of world supply of the
lightweight, malleable metals essential to hybrid cars, cell
phones and hard disk drives.  China’s decision this year to slash exports of the metals
has driven up prices and spurred a drive among Japanese
companies, the world’s biggest users of rare earths, to find
other supplies. While trading houses  Sojitz Corp.  and Sumitomo
Corp. consider investing in mines outside China, Hitachi said it
expects recycling to meet 10 percent of its needs by 2013 from
almost zero now.  “We need to make sure we have a stable supply of these
materials and recycling is part of that,” Kenji Baba, general
manager of Hitachi’s resource recycling office, said this week
at a test site north of Tokyo. “We have to work on bringing
costs down.”  Ready for Harvest  Inside a warehouse in Matsudo City, Hitachi demonstrated
the results of the one-year, $1.5 million research project
partly funded by Japan’s government. Four refrigerator-sized
devices use saws to open up compressors without damaging the
rare earth magnets inside. A separate conveyor belt feeds disk
drives into a machine about the size of a ship container. The
drives come out the other end in pieces ready for rare earth
harvesting.  Hitachi, whose shares have  gained  49 percent this year,
says the machines are the first of their kind. The shares rose
to their highest since Dec. 2008 today, closing on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange at 420 yen, up 1.7 percent.  Last year, China’s government clamped down on its rare
earth industry, setting production quotas to bolster prices.
China said in July this year it would reduce export quotas 72
percent in the second half to supply its own electronics
industry and overhaul a mining sector blamed for causing
widespread environmental damage.  Rising Demand  The drop in output and exports combined with rising demand
caused the price of neodymium used in batteries for the Prius to
surge fourfold to $80 a kilogram from $19.12 in 2009, according
to Sydney-based rare-earth miner Lynas Corp. Lynas is building a
A$550 million ($535 million) rare earths mine at Mount Weld in
Western Australia.  Sojitz, one of Japan’s biggest importers of rare earths,
last month agreed with Lynas to buy 8,000 tons to 9,000 tons
annually from its Mount Weld mine over the next 10 years.  “China’s monopoly isn’t going to hold up because prices
are high enough now to make it worthwhile for other people to
get into the business,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees
about $450 million in assets at Tokyo-based Ichiyoshi Investment
Management Co.  Rare earths are a group of 17 metal elements used in
batteries, permanent magnets in wind turbines and cell phones,
and catalysts to reduce auto exhaust emissions.  Besides Hitachi’s project, Tokyo-based chemical maker  Showa
Denko KK  in May opened a plant in Vietnam to begin recycling
dysprosium and didymium metal used to make magnetic alloys. The
company, the world’s biggest producer of some components used in
hard disk drives, makes 8,000 tons of the alloys a year and
plans output of 800 tons at the recycling factory.  Reducing Costs  Copper processor  Mitsubishi Materials Corp. , which has
recycling ventures with Panasonic Corp. and Sharp Corp., last
year started researching the cost of extracting neodymium and
dysposium from washing machines and air conditioners.  “We’re trying to reduce costs by automating the process,”
said Isato Matsubara, a spokesman at the company. “How
profitable the business can be depends on the prices of
materials and getting our costs down.”  Sumitomo Corp. , Japan’s third-largest trading company, said
it’s considering an investment in U.S.-based rare earth miner
 Molycorp Inc.  An investment by Sumitomo, which the company said
is one option being considered, would give it access to the
world’s largest known deposit of rare earths outside of China at
a mine in Mountain Pass, California.  Flooding the Market  Molycorp raised $394 million in an initial share sale in
July to reopen the mine. It was closed in 2002 as China output
flooded the market and drove down prices. The company will
export half of its rare earth metal shipments to Japan in 2010,
the Nikkei newspaper reported today, citing an interview with
Chief Executive Officer  Mark Smith .  Toyota Tsusho Corp., the trading company part-owned by
Toyota, will build a rare earths plant in India that will help
secure supplies from 2012, the Nagoya-based company said in a
statement on its website today. The plant in Orissa province
will provide 3,000 metric tons to 4,000 tons of the metals a
year, the statement said.  “It’s never good to have all of your eggs in one basket,”
 Paul Nolasco , a spokesman for Toyota, said before today’s
announcement from Toyota Tsusho. “As we do whenever there’s a
supply issue, or even the perception of an issue, our
procurement people are looking into it.”  Processing  For recyclers, extracting components is the first step.
Magnets from air conditioning compressors are 25 percent rare
earth metal and a chemical process is needed to refine out the
rare earths, Hitachi’s Baba said.  “We’ve succeeded in processing the metals in small
quantities without using acids,” Baba said. “Now we’re working
on methods to increase the scale.”  Even China’s supply is not unlimited, some of the heavy
rare earths it has will only last about 15 years,  Ali Izadi- Najafabadi , a Tokyo-based analyst at Bloomberg New Energy
Finance, said.  “So if we’re going to have a clean energy revolution and
electric vehicles and other things, recycling would have to be
part of the infrastructure,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Clenfield  in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net ;
 Mariko Yasu  in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
 Stuart Biggs  in Tokyo at 
 Sbiggs3@bloombereg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  