-- Italy Budget Adds Political Risk to Debt Woes for Berlusconi: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2010-12-08T10:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/italy-budget-adds-political-risk-to-debt-woes-for-berlusconi-euro-credit.html
Italy’s passage of a 2011 budget plan
paves the way for a confidence vote that will decide Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s political fate and complicate
passage of more deficit cuts called for by the European Union.  The  premium  investors demand to hold Italian 10-year debt
over German bunds reached a euro-era high of 212 basis points on
Nov. 30, a day after Ireland requested European-Union emergency
aid and EU Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said Italy
may need additional budget cuts to pare its shortfall. The
spread narrowed today to 154 basis points, compared with an
average level of 103 basis points in 2009.  “It’s a problem if Italy really does become ungovernable,
or if Berlusconi is clinging on for dear life,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at Monument Securities Ltd.
in London.  The Dec. 14 confidence vote threatens to fuel political
instability in Italy at a time investors are punishing euro-
region governments for not making good on their deficit-cutting
commitments. Ireland yesterday passed an initial series of
budget measures as part of a spending plan that includes 6
billion euros ($8 billion) in cuts and tax increases. The votes
came after the government was forced to accept a bailout that
opposition parties have said they may seek to renegotiate after
early elections next year.  The European Commission estimated on Nov. 29 that Italy’s
 budget deficit  will be 4.3 percent of gross domestic product
next year, worse than the government’s 3.9 percent forecast. The
difference is the equivalent of about 6 billion euros. Rehn said
during the presentation of the commission’s outlook that it was
“essential that Italy sticks to its fiscal targets,” which may
require additional austerity measures.  Banks Healthy  Italy, which has the euro region’s  second-largest  debt, has
fared better than the other so-called peripheral countries since
Greece’s near-default in May led to a jump in borrowing costs
for the region’s high-deficit nations. Unlike in Spain and
Ireland, Italy’s economic growth wasn’t fueled by a housing and
borrowing boom, and its banks remain relatively healthy. The
government also avoided the stimulus spending that inflated
deficits in other European countries.  Italy is set to end the year with a deficit of 5 percent,
less than the 9.6 percent of Greece, 9.3 percent for Spain, 7.7
percent for France and 32.3 percent in Ireland, for which many
economists credit Italian Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti .  “If Berlusconi wins the confidence vote, it means that
Tremonti will still be there and that will be seen as good
news,” said  Lavinia Santovetti , an economist at Nomura
International in London. “Somehow Tremonti has managed to keep
public finances under control.”  Break With Fini  Berlusconi, 74, is facing the confidence votes after
 Gianfranco Fini , the co-founder of his ruling People of Liberty
party, broke with the premier in July and began campaigning for
his ouster. Fini may have enough votes to bring down the
government, though under Italian law, it’s not clear what would
happen next. President  Giorgio Napolitano  would first consult
with all the political parties to see if anyone, including
Berlusconi, could cobble together a parliamentary majority. If
not, Italy will hold elections in the coming months, threatening
to end Berlusconi’s term two years early.  “Our main concern is that the complex political situation
will lead to a stalemate of the government functions leading to
a failure to engineer policies aimed to boost productivity and
increase the competitiveness of the domestic market,” Deutsche
Bank AG economist  Marco Stringa  said in a Dec. 3 report.  If the prime minister managed to return to power, he would
struggle to maintain a parliamentary majority without Fini’s
support. Elections would likely produce a loose coalition of
parties with little in common except their opposition to the
premier, or another Berlusconi victory with a narrower majority
in the legislature.  Situation ‘Evolving’  “My fear in a way is that if Berlusconi loses the
confidence vote, there will be huge uncertainty over what will
happen next,” Santovetti said. “The situation is still
evolving, but there is no clear cut sign of who is going to win
or who is going to do what.”  With debt in nominal terms of 1.8 trillion euros, more than
that of Spain, Portugal, Ireland and Greece combined, any
increase in Italy’s risk premium will have an immediate effect
on the country’s borrowing cost. Italy needs to sell almost 200
billion euros in bonds next year, analysts at Citigroup Inc.
estimated in a Nov. 25 report, and the Treasury typically holds
four to five debt auctions every month.  Contagion Limited  The low level of private debt and the lower percentage of
Italian bonds owned by foreign investors have helped limit the
impact of contagion on Italy and make a debt of 116 percent of
GDP more manageable, according to Stringa at Deutsche Bank. In
Italy, household debt is the equivalent of 47 percent of GDP,
less than half the level of Spain and Portugal. Still, for Italy
to move out of the periphery and close the gap with more
economically competitive countries such as Germany requires the
kind of strong political leadership the nation may lack, Stringa
said.  “The probable consequence of the further political
deterioration in Italy will be a continuing slow growth even by
European standards,” he said.  The government forecasts growth of 1.3 percent next year
and 2 percent in 2012, predictions that may prove “too
optimistic,” Stringa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  