-- Ivory Coast Suspended From Regional Bloc as Political Crisis Deteriorates
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2010-12-08T08:14:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/ivory-coast-suspended-from-regional-bloc-as-crisis-deepens.html
Ivory Coast  was suspended from a
regional group of nations after  Laurent Gbagbo  defied
international pressure and the Electoral Commission and declared
himself president following a Nov. 28 election.  The Economic Community of West African States backed
 Alassane Ouattara , a former prime minister who was named winner
of the vote by the commission with 54.1 percent, said Nigerian
President  Goodluck Jonathan , who is also chairman of the group.  “Elections have been held and somebody has won, so he has
to take over,” Jonathan told reporters after a meeting of West
African heads of state in the Nigerian capital, Abuja,
yesterday. “The votes of the people must count.”  Ouattara’s win was overturned by Ivory Coast’s
Constitutional Council, which annulled votes in the country’s
north over claims of irregularities and named incumbent Gbagbo
as winner. The following day, Gbagbo and Ouattara both took
presidential oaths of office and this week appointed government
ministers to their separate administrations. Ouattara’s claim to
the presidency is supported by the United Nations, the European
Union, the U.S. and France.  The election was meant to unify Ivory Coast, the world’s
top cocoa grower, which has been split between a government-
controlled south and rebel-held north since a military uprising
in 2002. Cocoa for March delivery gained $19, or 0.6 percent, to
$3,084 a metric ton in New York trading yesterday.  ‘Let-Down’  “There was only one winner with a clear margin,” said
Young-jin Choi, the head of the UN mission in the country, which
certified the vote result and confirmed Ouattara as victor.
“Ignoring the will of the Ivorian people at this stage would be
a let-down,” he said in a briefing to the UN Security Council,
according to a  statement . The UN started evacuating non-
essential staff from the country yesterday.  Bingu wa Mutharika, Malawi’s president and chairman of the
African Union, also called on Gbagbo to stand down and hand
power to Ouattara yesterday in a statement read on state-owned
Malawi television.  The post-election crisis “could take weeks to resolve,”
said Anne Fruhauf, Africa analyst with Eurasia Group, based in
London. A unity government that involves both Gbagbo and
Ouattara “is the best-case scenario for the country and
investors, as it would help stabilize the security situation,
exports and aid flows,” she said in an e-mailed note yesterday.  Nigeria’s Jonathan said a unity administration “doesn’t
really work” as a method to settle the impasse. “You only
encourage people not to do what’s right.”  All Measures  Guillaume Soro , who resigned as Gbagbo’s prime minister
last week and joined Ouattara’s rival Cabinet as premier,
likened Gbagbo’s retention of power to a coup.  “If the combined efforts from the national and
international community cannot convince Laurent Gbagbo to leave
power, it will be the responsibility of my government to take
all the required measures to make sure the verdict of the poll
is respected,” Soro said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
The situation is not “at the stage of force yet.”  Gbagbo’s supporters say he is the rightful president,
having been sworn in by the Constitutional Council.  “The constitution is the basic law,” said  Charles Ble Goude , who was named as Gbagbo’s choice for minister of youth,
professional education and employment. “You can be not happy,
but we are all subject to the law. It is not about feelings,”
he told reporters in Abidjan yesterday.  Gbagbo named Desire Dallo, former head of the port at San
Pedro, as economy and finance minister and Allain Dogou as
defense minister, according to a statement.  On Dec. 5, Ouattara reappointed  Charles Koffi Diby , who had
served as Gbagbo’s finance minister since 2007, back to his
post.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Olivier Monnier  and  Pauline Bax  in Abidjan via Accra at
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 