-- Ivory Coast's Ouattara Says `Grateful' for West African Support on Vote
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2010-12-08T16:55:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/ivory-coast-s-ouattara-says-grateful-for-west-african-support-on-vote.html
Alassane Ouattara , one of two
candidates claiming the presidency of Ivory Coast after the Nov.
28 election, said he was “grateful” for the support given him
yesterday by a regional bloc.  The Economic Community of West African States joined the
United Nations, U.S., the European Union and France in demanding
the incumbent President  Laurent Gbagbo  hand over power to
Ouattara and suspended the country.  Ouattara, who was named the winner by the electoral
commission with 54.1 percent of the vote, told journalists in
 Abidjan  today he would “make every effort to see these
sanctions lifted shortly, and to avoid that Ivory Coast be
isolated in the sub-region and in the world.”  Ouattara’s win was annulled by Ivory Coast’s Constitutional
Council on Dec. 3. The council named incumbent Gbagbo as the
victor after is cancelled ballots from the country’s north,
alleging irregularities.  The rival leadership claims, which have led both men to
appoint prime ministers and cabinets, have left the world’s top
cocoa grower in a political stalemate that “could take weeks to
resolve,” said Anne Fruhauf, Africa analyst with Eurasia Group.
The election was meant to be a key step in uniting the country,
which has been divided between a government-held south and
rebel-held north since a 2002 military uprising.  Votes Must Count  “Elections have been held and somebody has won, so he has
to take over,” Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan  said
yesterday, referring to Ouattara. Jonathan, who is the current
chairman of Ecowas, spoke after a meeting of West African heads
of state in the Nigerian capital, Abuja. “The votes of the
people must count,” he said.  The United Nations mission in Ivory Coast certified the
votes and affirmed Ouattara’s win, according to mission head
Young-jin Choi.  “The people have chosen one person, not two, as the winner
of the presidential election,” he told reporters in Abidjan
today.  Bingu wa Mutharika , Malawi’s president and chairman of the
African Union, also called on Gbagbo to stand down and hand
power to Ouattara yesterday in a statement read on state-owned
Malawi television.  Gbagbo’s supporters say he is the rightful president,
having been sworn in by the Constitutional Council.  “The constitution is the basic law,” said  Charles Ble Goude , who was named as Gbagbo’s minister of youth, professional
education and employment. “You can be not happy, but we are all
subject to the law. It is not about feelings,” he told
reporters in Abidjan yesterday.  Cocoa for March delivery fell for the first day in five,
shedding $44, or 1.4 percent, to $3,040 by 11:27 a.m. in New
York, on speculation that exports from Ivory Coast will continue
amid the unrest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Olivier Monnier  and  Pauline Bax  in Abidjan via Accra at
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 