-- Japan Machine Orders Fall For Second Month, Adding to Sign Growth Stalling
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2010-12-08T05:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/japan-s-machinery-orders-declined-greater-than-estimated-1-4-in-october.html
Japanese machinery orders fell for a
second month in October because of declining demand from the
service sector, adding to signs that the nation’s export-led
recovery is stalling.  Factory orders  fell 1.4 percent from September, when they
dropped 10.3 percent, the biggest slide since March 2008, the
Cabinet Office said today in Tokyo. Orders, an indicator of
capital spending in three to six months, were projected to fall
0.1 percent, according to the median forecast of 28 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  Today’s report signals companies may scale back their
investment on plant and equipment in the coming months, after
separate data showed last week that capital spending rose in the
third quarter for the first time in more than three years. The
yen’s 11 percent advance against the dollar this year is
threatening exporters’ earnings and competitiveness abroad.  “Because Japanese economic growth expectations have
declined so much, companies don’t feel like making new
investments at home, where there’s lingering deflation,” said
 Hiroaki Muto , a senior economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset
Management in Tokyo. “They would rather spend money overseas.
Abundant funds held by companies aren’t flowing into new
investment and wages.”  Bank Lending Slides  Separate reports today showed the nation’s current-account
surplus widened 2.9 percent to 1.44 trillion yen ($16.8 billion)
in October and bank lending slid 2 percent in November, the 12th
straight decline.  The yen traded at 83.89 per dollar as of 2:22 p.m. in Tokyo,
compared with 83.51 before the report was released. The Japanese
currency has gained 3 percent since authorities tried to stem
the yen’s advance by intervening in currency markets on Sept. 15.  From a year earlier, factory orders rose 7 percent in
October, today’s report showed.  Government data so far for October have provided early
signs that the country’s economy may shrink this quarter.
Industrial output had the biggest drop since February 2009 and
the  jobless rate  unexpectedly climbed.  Retail sales  declined for
the first time this year, while export growth slowed.  Economy May Shrink  Japan’s GDP is expected to contract at a 0.9 percent
annualized pace in the three months through December, according
to a survey of 42 economists by the Japanese government-
affiliated Economic Planning Association released last month.
Consumer spending may weigh on growth as it’s likely to slow
after surging in the third quarter on purchases of energy-
efficient cars before the end of a government subsidy program.  Company profits are at a risk from the advance of the yen,
which reached a 15-year high against the dollar last month. Half
of the nation’s 107-largest exporters predict the currency will
trade around 80 yen per dollar through the year ending March 31,
Tokyo Shoko Research said in a report today.  “The government’s basic policy is to stop excessive
advances in the yen,” Economy Minister  Banri Kaieda  said in
Tokyo today.  Rohto Pharmaceutical Co. , a Japanese drugmaker, last month
cut its full-year profit forecast, citing the strong yen.  Nikon
Corp. , a maker of cameras, lenses and chip-making equipment,
lowered its full-year operating profit and revenue forecasts
because of the currency’s advance.  Overseas Shift  The stronger yen also increases the incentive for Japanese
companies to shift production overseas.  Mori Seiki Co. , a
machine tool maker, will spend 5 billion yen to build a plant in
California that will start production in July 2012, as locating
the plant outside of Japan will help it cut expenses including
for transportation and reduce risks of foreign exchange losses.  Today’s report showed that machinery orders from non-
manufacturers declined 8.7 percent from September, the first
drop in four months, while orders from manufacturers gained 1.4
percent. Demand from the communication services and information
services sectors was especially weak, according to the Cabinet
Office.  “This is a pull-back from the high growth in July and
August, so today’s report doesn’t change the fact that machinery
orders and capital spending are gradually increasing,” said
 Yoshiki Shinke , a senior economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research
Institute in Tokyo. “Since machinery orders are a leading
indicator of capital spending, I think we can continue to expect
gradual increases in capital spending for the rest of the fiscal
year at least.”  The Japanese parliament last month passed an extra budget
to fund Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s stimulus package aimed at
fighting deflation and combating the stronger yen.  Tax Cut  In a bid to stimulate corporate demand, the government is
deliberating lowering the nation’s corporate tax rate, which is
the highest among Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development data member nations. Economy Minister  Banri Kaieda 
said yesterday he hopes the move will encourage companies to
invest more at home.  “Despite growing uncertainty on the domestic and overseas
economic fronts and concerns about the appreciation of the yen,
the appetite of Japanese companies for capital spending has yet
to diminish significantly,” said  Naoki Iizuka , a senior
economist at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo.  Sharp Corp. , Japan’s largest maker of solar panels, said
last week that it will invest 15 billion yen in a new production
line to meet the rising demand for cells. The company is adding
an annual production capacity of 200 megawatts in single
crystalline silicon solar at its factory in Sakai City, Japan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  