-- JetBlue Declines After Paring Forecasts for Fourth-Quarter Revenue Growth
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2010-12-08T21:21:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/jetblue-trims-flight-revenue-outlook-as-fares-bookings-trail-estimates.html
JetBlue Airways Corp.  fell 4 percent
in Nasdaq trading after paring its forecast for benchmark
revenue measures this quarter because average fares and close-in
bookings trailed the carrier’s projections.  Revenue  from each seat flown a mile will increase about 8
percent to 10 percent, down from a forecast of 10 percent to 13
percent, Chief Financial Officer  Ed Barnes  said today at a
Hudson Securities airline conference in New York.  Unit revenue at U.S. carriers has been rising for months as
a resumption of air-travel demand and reduced flight capacity
lets airlines increase fares. This quarter, fewer passengers
than JetBlue expected bought tickets just before travel, when
they are more expensive, and competitors discounted fares in
some markets, the New York-based airline said.  “Today’s update is likely to intensify questions about
JetBlue’s forecasting ability,”  James M. Higgins , an analyst at
Soleil Securities Corp. in New York said in a note to clients.
“It will, hopefully, also rein in some of the over-optimism
that led to the unrealistic near-term expectations.”  JetBlue  fell  28 cents to $6.69 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. It was the biggest
decline in a month. The stock had  rallied  47 percent through
yesterday since its 52-week closing low on Feb. 4.  Higgins reduced his fourth-quarter profit estimate for
JetBlue to 10 cents a share from 14 cents, his full-year
estimate to 38 cents from 42 cents and his 2011 forecast to 60
cents from 65 cents. He kept a “buy” rating on the stock.  American, Southwest Airlines  JetBlue led a 0.9 percent decline in the  Bloomberg U.S.
Airlines Index  with 10 of the 12 members falling. American
Airlines parent  AMR Corp.  dropped 3.4 percent to $7.71 and
Republic Airways Holdings Inc. fell 3.5 percent to $7.27.  Fourth-quarter passenger unit revenue at Fort Worth, Texas-
based American Airlines should rise about 7 percent from a year
ago, CFO  Bella Goren  said at the conference.  Southwest Airlines Co.  expects “solid unit revenue
performance” for the quarter, CFO  Laura Wright  said. In a
separate statement, the Dallas-based company said November
passenger unit revenue rose 7 percent to 8 percent.  JetBlue also said passenger revenue per seat mile flown
will rise 10 percent to 12 percent this quarter instead of an
original forecast of 12 percent to 15 percent.  “We had planned on the peaks being slightly stronger than
what the peaks are turning out to be,” Barnes said, adding that
average fares per mile didn’t climb as much as JetBlue expected.  Barnes said the revised forecast won’t affect JetBlue’s
growth plans next year. The airline aims to expand service
primarily in Boston and the Caribbean, where demand remains
strong, he said.  Daily departures from Boston, where JetBlue already has the
most flights and most destinations served, should rise to 100 by
the middle of 2011, Barnes said. The company said it has 80
departures now.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 