-- J&J Loses First Trial on Warnings of Levaquin Risk
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   B e t h   H a w k i n s
-- 2010-12-08T21:26:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/johnson-johnson-must-pay-1-1-million-in-punitive-damages-jury-says.html
Johnson & Johnson  must pay
$1.1 million in punitive damages to an 82-year-old man who
claimed it failed to properly warn of the risks of tendon damage
linked to its antibiotic Levaquin, a Minnesota jury said.  The federal court jury in Minneapolis today also awarded
compensatory damages of $700,000 in the case of John Schedin,
who sued J&J and its Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals unit
in 2008. Schedin, who said he ruptured both Achilles tendons
after taking Levaquin, claimed the companies failed to warn
doctors and patients of the drug’s association with tendon
damage.  The trial was the first on more than 2,600 claims in U.S.
courts alleging that  Levaquin  caused tendon damage in patients
and that New Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J failed to disclose
the risk adequately. The jury today, in ordering punitive
damages, found the company acted with deliberate disregard for
the safety of others.  “We talked a lot about the responsibility the company had
to the general public, as far as safety goes,” Zach Rawson, a
juror from Rochester, Minnesota, said after the trial. “ We
felt that they didn’t warn adequately, that they didn’t use
enough means of warning the public, especially the doctors.”  Ortho-McNeil-Janssen will appeal, said Michael Heinley, a
company spokesman.  “The verdict and the amount of the compensatory and
punitive damages are at odds with the evidence presented at
trial,” Heinley said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Properly Informed’  “We believe Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals Inc.
properly informed of the benefits and risks associated with the
use of Levaquin, and that the company acted responsibly,” he
said.  The jury’s $700,000  award  of actual damages will be reduced
to $630,000 on its finding that Schedin was 10 percent liable
for the injury, Heinley said. The jury rejected Schedin’s claim
that Ortho-McNeil-Janssen violated Minnesota’s consumer fraud
law by misrepresenting or concealing information about Levaquin.  “We’re thrilled with the outcome and feel the jury followed
the evidence and came to the right decision,” Schedin’s
attorney,  Mikal Watts , said in an interview after the verdict.
“They sent a clear message: Pharmaceutical companies should put
their patients ahead of their profits.”  A status conference on cases in federal court in Minnesota
will be held “right after” the first of the year, U.S.
District Judge  John R. Tunheim , who is overseeing those suits,
said in court today.  Case Conference  The next case for trial should be selected at this
conference, Lewis Saul, a plaintiffs’ attorney, said in an
interview today.  In 2008, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration required J&J
and makers of related  drugs  in the class of antibiotics called
fluoroquinolones to include warnings on the risk of tendon
ruptures. The risk was higher in patients older than 60, those
taking steroids, and recipients of kidney, heart or lung
transplants, the FDA said.  The plaintiffs claim the label warning should have been
improved earlier and remains inadequate. They also say J&J and
Ortho-McNeil-Janssen boosted sales by downplaying risks.  “They obfuscated and manipulated the truth for  profit ,”
Watts said Dec. 6 in his closing arguments in the trial. “It
was a one-drug franchise that was crucial to the health of this
company.”  430 Million Prescriptions  The drug has been prescribed more than 430 million times
worldwide, company lawyers said in a court filing last month.
Sales of the drug through the first nine months of the year
totaled $957 million, the company said in an Oct. 19 statement.  J&J and Ortho-McNeil-Janssen denied any concealment of
information or that Schedin’s injury was linked to Levaquin use.  “There is no proof that Levaquin caused Mr. Schedin’s
tendon rupture,”  John Dames , J&J’s attorney, said in closing
arguments Dec. 6.  Ortho-McNeil-Janssen denied Schedin’s claim that it acted
with deliberate disregard for safety.  “The company acted in a way that was not deliberate
disregard,” J&J attorney  Tracy Van Steenburgh  told the jury
today in the punitive phase of the trial. “This case is about
whether this company provided enough information.”  Ortho-McNeil-Janssen didn’t send doctors letters about
Levaquin’s risks before the 2008 label change, Watts said today.  “If they had made that choice, it would have helped
educate doctors,” driving down the rate of tendon problems, he
said.  Prescribed for Infection  Schedin was prescribed Levaquin and a steroid for an upper
respiratory infection in 2005, according to his complaint.  “Prior to his Levaquin-induced bilateral Achilles tendon
rupture, he was vigorous and active for his age,” his lawyers
said in a Nov. 14 filing. “He has never fully recovered and is
now severely restricted in his activities.”  His doctor would have prescribed another antibiotic had he
known “about the risks associated with Levaquin, especially
when taken together with steroids,” Schedin said in court
papers.  The case is Schedin v. Johnson & Johnson, 08-cv-05743,
combined for trial in In re Levaquin Products Liability
Litigation, 08-md-01943, U.S. District Court, District of
Minnesota (Minneapolis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Beth Hawkins  in Minneapolis at  hawkins@visi.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 