-- Junk Bond Investors Pocket Instant Profit on ILFC Debt as High-Yield Jumps
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-12-08T15:27:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/junk-bond-investors-pocket-instant-profit-on-aig-s-ilfc-debt.html
Investors that bought American
International Group Inc.’s aircraft-leasing unit debt have
pocketed $26 million in less than a week as junk debt rallies on
speculation that a tax-cut extension will boost the economy.  International Lease Finance Corp.’s $1 billion of 8.25
percent, 10-year notes sold Dec. 2 rose 2.6 cents to 101.75
cents on the dollar as of yesterday, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  The securities from the unit of New York-based AIG have led
a rally in newly issued junk bonds this month as investors
embrace higher-yielding investments that offer a cushion from
rising Treasury yields. U.S. government debt tumbled yesterday,
pushing the 10-year note yield up the most since June 2009,
after President  Barack Obama  agreed to extend tax cuts for two
years in a bid to boost the economy.  “You’ll continue to see demand as bond investors protect
gains by investing in corporates that can buffer against this
move up in rates,” said  Jason Weiner , a senior fixed-income
fund manager in Milwaukee at M&I Investment Management Corp.,
whose firm oversees about $32 billion.  The extra yield investors demand to own high-yield bonds
instead of U.S. government debt narrowed 26 basis points
yesterday to 569 basis points, the biggest drop since September
2009, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Bond Losses  The debt, ranked below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service
and less than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s, has gained 0.9 percent
this month, boosting 2010 returns to 14.2 percent.  Investment-grade bonds have lost 1.45 percent this month
after declining 0.86 percent in November. The bonds have gained
about 9 percent this year, index data show.  The benchmark 10-year note yield climbed 20 basis points,
or 0.2 percentage point, to 3.14 percent yesterday, according to
BGCantor Market Data.  “Investors are finally going to realize they could lose
money in the bond market” as rates move higher, said Weiner.  Obama’s agreement to extend Bush-era income-tax cuts may
raise gross domestic product next year by as much as half a
percentage point to about 3.1 percent, said  Michael Feroli ,
chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York.  “The market’s tone over the last five or six trading
sessions has gone from somewhat apathetic and negative to
positive and a bit more active,” said  Jon Sablowsky , head of
trading at investment firm Brownstone Investment Group LLC in
New York. “Some stability in terms of everyone’s tax situation
will be beneficial to the marketplace.”  Window Closing  Junk-rated companies have issued $9.8 billion of debt this
month through yesterday, as sales accelerate from $1.56 billion
in the last full week of November, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Citadel Broadcasting Corp. sold $400 million of eight-year,
7.75 percent senior unsecured notes on Dec. 6 at par that have
risen 1.75 cents on the dollar, Trace and Bloomberg data show.
AMC Entertainment Holdings Inc. sold $600 million of 10-year
senior subordinated 9.75 percent notes that gained 1.875 cents
to 101.875 cents on the dollar since Dec. 1.  Companies from Seagate Technology Plc, the world’s largest
maker of disk drives, and CNO Financial Group Inc. are marketing
at least $5 billion of high-yield debt, Bloomberg data
show.  “The window is going to close next week going into the
Christmas week,” Brownstone’s Sablowsky said. “The market’s
very receptive and these guys want to get the deals done.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  