-- K1 Founder's Personal Assets Taken Under Court Control After Fraud Charges
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2010-12-08T15:48:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/k1-founder-kiener-s-private-assets-put-under-administration.html
K1 Group hedge fund founder  Helmut Kiener ’s personal assets were placed under the control of a
court-appointed administrator less than two weeks after he was
charged with running an international fraud scheme.  A court in Aschaffenburg, Germany, opened preliminary
insolvency proceedings on Nov. 25 after a creditor request,
according to a filing in Germany’s online insolvency registry.
The creditor was a health insurer, insolvency judge Juergen Roth
said in an interview today.  “We have requested a statement of assets from him, but I
decided to appoint an independent administrator to review the
situation,” Roth said. “In a case with these dimensions,
that’s advisable to make sure all the assets are covered.”  Kiener, 51, is the central figure in an international
criminal probe that led to his arrest last year. German
prosecutors last month charged him with defrauding private
investors and banks, including  Barclays Plc  and  BNP Paribas SA .
Kiener has denied the allegations. Prosecutors said investors
suffered 345 million euros ($456 million) in losses.  Tobias Hoefer, a lawyer with an office in Aschaffenburg,
was appointed as the preliminary administrator. Kiener’s lawyer
Lutz Libbertz didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  The court advised Kiener that he can also file for
protection from creditors, Roth said. Kiener hasn’t done that so
far, according to the judge.  Fraud, Tax Evasion  Kiener was charged with tax evasion, 35 counts of
aggravated fraud and 86 counts of forgery by the Wuerzburg
Prosecutors’ Office on Nov. 16. Nearly 5,000 private investors
in the K1 Global Ltd. and K1 Invest Ltd. funds lost money,
according to prosecutors.  K1 Global and K1 Invest, the two fund operators of K1 Group
based in the British Virgin Islands, applied for liquidation
last year. X1 Fund Allocation GmbH, a Hamburg-based company that
managed funds that Barclays invested in the group, was put into
insolvency proceedings in November 2009.  Kiener, who helped manage funds of hedge funds, developed
what K1’s website described as a “semi-automatical allocation
system” using statistics to help pick hedge-fund investments.
He called his technique the “K1 Fund Allocation System,” a
term he trademarked in Germany.  BNP and JPMorgan Chase & Co. sued K1 and Kiener in New York
State Supreme Court last year claiming losses in a “fraudulent
circular investment scheme” conducted by K1 and its affiliates.  The Kiener insolvency case is AG Aschaffenburg, 2 IN
571/10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 