-- Kerry Says Congress Is `Impatient,' U.S. May Take Action on Yuan Next Year
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-12-08T01:14:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/kerry-says-congress-is-impatient-u-s-may-take-action-on-yuan-next-year.html
Senate Foreign Relations Committee 
Chairman  John Kerry  said the U.S. Congress is “impatient” with
the artificially low value of China’s yuan and may take action
next year.  The Massachusetts Democrat, speaking in Washington about
U.S.-China relations, also said that if the Group of 20 nations
isn’t able to address currency values, the U.S. should find
another way to deal with the issue.  “The United States Congress is getting increasingly
impatient and in the next session may take matters into its own
hands,” Kerry said, noting that the value of the yuan
contributes to the U.S. trade deficit. “If the G-20 can’t deal
with this problem, then we ought to look at other multilateral
tools, ones with teeth, that can fix this.”  Kerry’s comments to the Center for American Progress, a
think tank with ties to the Obama administration, came as the
U.S.-China Joint Commission on Commerce and Trade prepares to
meet next week. In a Bloomberg News interview today, Commerce
Secretary  Gary Locke  described the gathering as “so very
important.”  The yuan “certainly affects the ability of U.S. companies
to be competitive when Chinese goods come in,” Locke said.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and President  Barack Obama  have pressed high-level Chinese officials numerous times
to allow the yuan to appreciate faster, Locke said.  In India in November, Geithner urged China to continue
letting the yuan rise, saying it was in the country’s interest
to have a market-determined exchange rate that allows it more
control over monetary policy.  ‘Press Ahead’  “We relay these concerns of members of Congress, and the
American people and the administration to our Chinese
counterparts, and we continue to press ahead on these trade
issues,” Locke said.  As the executive branch has tried to exert pressure on
China to change, Congress has been weighing legislation that
would allow companies to seek trade remedies if they are
affected by an unfairly undervalued currency.  China amassed a $201 billion trade surplus with the U.S.
for the first nine months of this year, more than the U.S.
deficit with the next seven largest trading partners combined,
according to the  Commerce Department .  Locke said that U.S. officials at the joint commission
meeting would focus on breaking down barriers to U.S. products
and services entering China, including pharmaceuticals, medical
equipment and clean energy.  ‘Indigenous Innovation’  The U.S. will also raise the matter of Chinese procurement
practices, including Beijing’s “indigenous innovation” policy,
“that really favor their own industries and their own companies
to the exclusion of foreign companies,” Locke said.  Thirty U.S. senators sent a letter yesterday to Vice
Premier  Wang Qishan  saying they want China to allow “its
currency to appreciate meaningfully” before President  Hu Jintao 
visits Washington next month.  The lawmakers also urged Wang to deal with U.S. concerns
about trade in green-energy goods, beef and protection of
copyrighted items at the joint commission meeting.  Gary Hufbauer , a senior fellow at the  Peterson Institute
for International Economics  in Washington, said he didn’t expect
lawmakers to focus on the yuan during the current lame-duck
session.  ‘Back With a Roar’  Hufbauer said in a telephone interview that when the next
session of Congress convenes in January, he expects the yuan
issue to come back “with a roar.”  Lawmakers in both parties will likely support a bill
pushing China to let the value of the yuan rise, he said.  “I regard that as only the first installment unless
there’s a fairly major shift in the Chinese currency policy,”
Hufbauer said.  Lawmakers considering sanctions against China will need to
weigh the impact on shoppers accustomed to buying inexpensive
Chinese-made goods, said  Carl Weinberg , chief economist of High
Frequency Economics in Valhalla, New York.  “A tariff on imports or goods from China is really a tax
on American consumers,” Weinberg said in a telephone interview.
“You’re making things more expensive for the American consumer.
That’s something that no Congress undertakes lightly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net 
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  