-- Kravis Says KKR Is in Talks With Financial Institutions That Need Capital
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2010-12-08T22:39:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/kkr-is-in-talks-with-financial-firms-that-may-require-capital-kravis-says.html
KKR & Co.  is in talks with financial
institutions that need capital, co-founder  Henry Kravis  said
today at the Goldman Sachs U.S. Financial Services conference.  Banks in Ireland and Germany might be among the
institutions that need money in the future, Kravis said. The New
York-based buyout firm would have to be “comfortable” with a
company’s valuation of assets before making any investment, he
said.  “One has to question, have the banks in Europe really
written everything down to what the real value is,” Kravis said
at the New York conference. “If we’re looking at anything, we
have to make sure we feel very comfortable with that.”  Private-equity firms are stepping up their investing in
financial institutions as banks struggle in the wake of the
global credit crisis. The firms announced or completed 39
buyouts in the financial industry valued at $10.4 billion this
year, the highest since level 2007, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Private-equity firms made $195.2 million of bank buyouts so
far in 2010, a 68 percent increase from the $116.2 million of
deals in all of 2009, the data show.  Ireland’s banks will receive as much as 35 billion euros
($46.4 billion) in a bailout led by the European Union and the
International Monetary Fund after rising loan losses forced the
government to seek rescue.  The uncertainty surrounding the European debt crisis has
created a “huge opportunity” for KKR to invest in companies
there that can’t raise capital, Kravis said.  The “face-to-face consumer finance” that banks have
abandoned in recent years presents an “attractive
opportunity,” Fortress Investment Group LLC Chief Executive
Officer  Daniel Mudd  said at the same conference.  KKR announced a $1.7 billion offer for Perpetual Ltd., a
Sydney-based financial-services company, in October. Fortress
made six deals in the financial industry this year valued at
$146 million, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Marcinek  in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  