-- Narnia Pirates, Mouse Seek Swords; Taymor’s ‘Tempest’: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2010-12-08T03:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/narnia-pirates-mouse-seek-swords-taymor-s-tempest-movies.html
Some dragons just aren’t worth the
fight.  “ The Chronicles of Narnia: The Voyage of the Dawn
Treader ” is the third movie in the second-rate fantasy
franchise based on C.S. Lewis’ allegorical children’s classics.
A post-filming conversion to 3-D does nothing to improve a
rather charmless adventure.  Michael Apted  directed this latest go-round, produced by
20th Century Fox after Disney made the first two films. His
years with the real-life kids of the wonderful “Up”
documentaries don’t seem to have provided skills for drawing
beguiling performances from child actors. Two of the three young
visitors to Narnia are bland as unbuttered crumpets. The third,
played by series newcomer Will Poulter, could grate away a
Minotaur’s horns.  Picking up three years after the “Prince Caspian”
installment, “Dawn Treader” finds the Pevensie siblings Lucy
(an ever-smiling Georgie Henley) and Edmund (Skandar Keynes, who
at least has an interesting name) transported from World War II
Britain to the high seas and dangerous islands of Narnia. Young
Poulter -- think Speedy Alka-Seltzer voiced by an angry Glenda
Jackson -- is their petulant cousin (and, it turns out, the dim
hope for any future sequel).  Ancient Swords  They meet up with Caspian, the friendly Narnian King played
by the Orlando Bloomish Ben Barnes. The gang, along with a
talking mouse and a crew of amusement park pirates, set out to
retrieve seven ancient swords.  Neither Apted nor his screenwriters (Stephen McFeely,
Michael Petroni and Christopher Markus) are overly concerned
with the whys of this particular odyssey, focusing instead on
derring-do more frenetic than thrilling. The final battle --with
a giant CGI sea serpent -- is by far the most engaging segment
of the film.  Mostly unimpressive 3-D (available in limited markets) does
little to enliven an unconvincing Minotaur or that haphazardly
executed rodent. Sunday school teachers might find use in the
godly lion, but their young charges will likely have seen
better.  “The Chronicles of Narnia: The Voyage of the Dawn
Treader,” from 20th Century Fox, opens Dec. 10 across the U.S.
Rating: **  ‘The Tempest’  Stranded on an island with  Russell Brand  might be someone’s
idea of fun, but director  Julie Taymor ’s surprisingly dreary
retelling of “ The Tempest ” makes little case for it.  Taymor is best known for her visionary stage works: Her
“The Lion King” is a bold meld of mainstream and avant-garde
entertainment, and she’s currently directing “Spider-Man: Turn
Off the Dark,” the most extravagant show in Broadway history.  No such alchemy is evident in her earthbound approach to
one of Shakespeare’s most popular and accessible plays.  Traditionalists might begrudge Taymor’s gender-switch
appointment of  Helen Mirren  as the exiled Prospero, here renamed
Prospera (or “Mom” to Felicity Jones’s waifish Miranda). Yet
stunt casting -- Brand overplays the buffoonish Trinculo in
 Keith Richards  drag -- is the least of the film’s problems. This
“Tempest” lacks magic.  Filmed on location around the black volcanic mounds of
Hawaii (TV’s “Lost” displayed more grandeur than most of
Stuart Dryburgh’s cinematography here), Taymor’s “Tempest”
takes few storyline liberties with the play.  Prospera, aided by her duty-bound sprite Ariel (a wispy  Ben Whishaw , done up like “Aladdin Sane”-era Bowie without the
lightning bolt), conjures the titular storm that shipwrecks the
usurping king and his cronies onto the enchanted island, where
all will be set right.  Bard Buffs  With the exceptions of cheating English lit students and
Bard buffs hungry for the words, audiences might rightly demand
some visual witchery to justify yet another version of the play.
(Paul Mazursky’s 1982 “Tempest” at least had some moments of
genuine eccentricity).  Instead we get woefully inadequate special effects,
particularly with the ghostly, sped-up movements of Ariel. The
black leather and zippered costumes are standard modern-dress
Shakespeare.  Had it been staged for a balmy summer’s night of
Shakespeare in the Park, Taymor’s “The Tempest” might have
been a pleasant enough diversion. Onscreen, it’s a forgettable
drizzle.  “The Tempest,” from Walt Disney Pictures, opens Dec. 10
in New York, Los Angeles and San Francisco. Rating: **  (Greg Evans is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 