-- Navy Using 2 Littoral-Ship Teams Blunts Risk, GAO Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-12-08T23:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/navy-plan-to-buy-two-littoral-combat-ship-models-would-cut-risks-gao-says.html
The U.S. Navy’s proposal to buy
Littoral Combat Ships from two teams instead of from a single
supplier as originally planned might blunt the risk that a model
won’t work, congressional auditors said.  “A second ship design provided under the dual-award
strategy could provide the Navy an additional hedge” as the
groups led by  Lockheed Martin Corp.  and by a unit of Australia’s
 Austal Ltd.  face “much work and demonstration” ahead, the U.S.
Government Accountability Office said today in a  report  to
lawmakers.  The Navy’s experience with the first two vessels from the
teams, and contracts locking in the price, should help improve
the vessels’ chances of success, the GAO said without giving the
strategy a full endorsement. “In the near term, cost increases
are likely, but it is unknown whether increases will exceed what
the Navy has budgeted for fiscal years 2010 and beyond,” the
auditor said.  If backed by Congress, the Navy’s Nov. 3 proposal to
acquire 20 of the shallow-water vessels would supersede the
service’s 2009 plan to choose one design in a winner-take-all
competition. U.S. lawmakers are considering separate measures
that might win House approval for the dual-ship approach.  The Congressional Research Service  estimated  that under the
single-model strategy, the ships would cost $480 million each.
Using two designs can save at least $1 billion on the first 20
ships with possibly as much as $1.9 billion more in savings by
2016, according to the Navy.  Coastline Work  Littoral Combat Ships are designed to operate closer to
coastlines than existing surface vessels, such as destroyers, in
missions such as clearing mines, hunting submarines and
providing humanitarian relief. The Navy projects buying 55 ships
under the program.  Lockheed and Marinette Marine Corp. worked together on one
model, while the other was developed by Austal’s U.S. subsidiary
and General Dynamics Corp.  Representative  Gene Taylor , Democrat of Mississippi, has
introduced  legislation  (HR 6494) to approve the approach as a
stand-alone law or part of the pending fiscal 2012 defense-
policy bill. The outgoing Democratic chairman of the House
Appropriations Committee,  David Obey  of Wisconsin, has included
 language  (Section 2314) to approve the deal in a stopgap
government funding measure until a final defense bill is passed.  Taylor, who has chaired the House Armed Services Committee
seapower panel, lost in the Nov. 2 midterm election. Obey is
retiring this year.  McCain’s Opposition  The proposal is opposed by Senator  John McCain , the senior
Republican on the Senate Armed Services Committee, who has said
he considers the Littoral Combat Ship a “troubled program.”  “Fast-tracking during a lame-duck session a decision on
this important issue would be improper,” McCain said in an e-
mailed statement.  “Without the basic information needed to make an informed
decision on the Navy’s proposal, and without the benefit of
thoughtful and transparent oversight, I cannot support the
Navy’s proposal,” McCain said.  Contractor prices are set to expire Dec. 14, the companies
have said.  Both vessels have inherent design and construction risks,
and “other shipbuilding programs have had difficulty at this
stage” of development, the GAO said.  The agency also questioned some of the Navy’s long-term
estimates for how much it would save on operations and support
using two shipbuilders, saying there are few data so far. Costs
may rise under either acquisition strategy because of design
changes that don’t take effect until after completion of the
first four vessels now under contract, the GAO said.  “Until this scope is fully identified and priced into
existing and future contracts, the department cannot be fully
confident that its budget for follow-on ships are sufficient,”
the congressional auditor said.  “The Navy’s ability to stay within its budgeted limits
remains to be seen,” the GAO said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 