-- Netflix Adds Disney Television Shows for Streaming
-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2010-12-08T21:12:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/netflix-and-disney-abc-in-pact-to-stream-shows.html
Netflix Inc. , the movie-rental
service, will expand its online offering of  Walt Disney Co. 
shows, adding programs such as ABC Family’s “Greek” after
introducing a streaming-only service last month.  The licensing deal with the world’s biggest media company
covers delivery over the Internet for an expanded lineup of TV
shows from the ABC broadcast network, Disney Channel and, for
the first time, ABC Family, the companies said today in a
statement.  Netflix is making more films and programs available to
consumers through Web-connected TV sets and game consoles,
lowering its dependence on mail-order DVDs. In November, the Los
Gatos, California-based company introduced its first streaming-
only subscription in the U.S. for $7.99 a month.  A few Disney Channel and ABC Family shows will be available
for streaming on Netflix as early as 15 days after airing on TV,
Kim Harbin, a Disney spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. No ABC
broadcast episodes will be on Netflix during the current season,
she said.  Prior seasons of ABC’s “Lost,” “Ugly Betty” and
“Grey’s Anatomy” will be available, the companies said today,
as well as shows from ABC Studios such as “Scrubs” and
episodes of Disney Channel’s “Good Luck Charlie.” The
agreement includes old episodes of Disney Channel hits “Hannah
Montana” and “The Suite Life of Zack & Cody,” and movies such
as “High School Musical” and “Camp Rock.”  Analysts’ Ratings  Under its October 2008 deal with the Starz premium cable
channel, Netflix streams first-run movies to its “Watch
Instantly” service from Walt Disney Studios and Sony Pictures.
The agreement is set to expire in late 2011, said  Richard Greenfield , an analyst at BTIG LLC in New York.  Of the 29 analysts who follow the company, 7 have sell
ratings, 17 say hold and 5 suggest buying it, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Studios will likely become much more aggressive in
pushing for higher content fees,”  Barton Crockett , an analyst
with Lazard Capital Markets who has a “hold” rating on the
stock, said today in a research note to investors.  Netflix named  David Wells  to replace Chief Financial
Officer  Barry McCarthy , according to a statement yesterday after
the markets closed. Wells, who served most recently as vice
president of financial planning and analysis, will take on the
new role as of Dec. 10. McCarthy is leaving to explore positions
outside the company, Netflix said.  Speaking at a Barclays Capital investor conference today,
McCarthy said there is no single piece of content that Netflix
must have to succeed. The company might expand its international
streaming business beyond Canada as early as next year, he said.  Disney , based in Burbank, California, fell 36 cents to
$36.97 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
Netflix, whose share price has more the tripled this year,
dropped $1.58 to $188.23 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
 Cliff Edwards  in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  