-- New Zealand Central Bank Leaves Rates Unchanged, Sees `Limited' Increases
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-12-08T22:04:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/new-zealand-central-bank-leaves-benchmark-rate-unchanged-for-a-3rd-meeting.html
New Zealand’s central bank left its
 benchmark interest rate  unchanged, saying increases in the next
two years will be slower than earlier indicated as the nation’s
worst earthquake in 80 years curbs near-term economic growth.  “It seems prudent to keep the cash rate low until the
recovery becomes more robust and underlying  inflation  pressures
show more obvious signs of increasing,” Reserve Bank Governor
 Alan Bollard  said in a statement in Wellington today after
leaving the official cash rate at 3 percent. “Interest rates
are now projected to rise to a more limited extent over the next
two years than signaled” in September.  New Zealand’s dollar dropped to the lowest in a week after
the decision as traders bet Bollard will delay any increase
until the second quarter. The central bank today cut forecasts
for consumption and gross domestic product because of the
effects of the magnitude 7 earthquake that struck near the South
Island city of Christchurch on Sept. 4.  “The Reserve Bank wants to see more reality and will be
less inclined to pre-empt the recovery,” said  Jane Turner ,
economist at ASB Bank Ltd. in Auckland. “This implies an even
later resumption to the tightening cycle. The Reserve Bank will
wait until June before it hikes the cash rate.”  Before today, 10 of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News, including Turner, expected the first increase in borrowing
costs would come in March, with four forecasting no change until
the second quarter.  Dollar Selling  New Zealand’s currency fell after the statement, dropping
as low as 74.35 U.S. cents from 74.94 cents immediately before
the statement. It bought 74.71 cents at 10:29 a.m. in
Wellington.  Bollard said the currency’s 12 percent gain the past six
months has put pressure on the nation’s exporters, and he urged
the government to bring the budget back into balance at a faster
pace to relieve that difficulty. Finance Minister  Bill English 
has said the budget will be in deficit until 2016.  “Accelerated elimination of the fiscal deficit could help
improve national savings, thereby easing pressure on interest
rates and the New Zealand dollar,” Bollard said.  The economy will grow an annual average of 1.7 percent in
the year ending March 31, less than the 2.8 percent pace
forecast in September, the central bank said in its quarterly
 policy statement , also published today.  Weak Growth  Third-quarter  growth  was probably 0.3 percent, compared
with the 0.8 percent pace estimated in September, and little
changed from a 0.2 percent expansion in the second quarter,
because of a reluctance of consumers and businesses to spend, it
said. The immediate effects of the earthquake reduced growth by
0.1 percentage point, it said.  “The pace of economic growth appears to have moderated,
reflecting weak domestic demand and the constraining effects of
the high New Zealand dollar,” the central bank said.  The so-called kiwi gained 5.7 percent against the U.S.
dollar over the past 12 months, the second-best performance
among the Group of 10 currencies, touching a 2 1/2-year high of
79.76 U.S. cents on Nov. 4.  The central bank also forecast the average three-month bank
bill yield will be little changed until the second quarter, and
expects it will rise to 3.8 percent by the end of 2011, less
than the 4.1 percent projected in September.  Government reports yesterday showed construction and
manufacturing shrank in the third quarter. Growth in the year
ending March 31, 2012, will accelerate to 3.4 percent, faster
than the previous 2.6 percent forecast, the central bank said.  “Repairs to earthquake damage are expected to add to GDP
growth over the projection period,” Bollard said.  Quake Damage  More than 160,000 damage claims were received by the state-
owned disaster insurer after the temblor. The Reserve Bank
estimated the cost of the rebuilding will be at least NZ$5
billion ($3.8 billion) spread mainly over 2011 and 2012.  Bollard said the economic recovery will accelerate later in
2011, buoyed by rising export prices amid improving demand in
markets such as the U.S., China and the U.K. Growth across the
nation’s 16 largest trading partners is expected to be 3.8
percent in 2011, up from 3.5 percent projected in September, the
central bank said.  In New Zealand, household spending “remains weak with
household credit still flat and housing activity slowing
further,” Bollard said. “House prices may decline a little
further in the near term.”  House prices  fell a second month in October, according to a
report on Nov. 11 from the Real Estate Institute.  Consumer purchases on debit, credit and store cards rose
1.4 percent in November, Statistics New Zealand said today.
Excluding fuel outlets, spending climbed 1 percent.  ‘Tightening’ Demand  “We are witnessing a tightening of retail demand,”  Warren Bell , chairman of New Zealand apparel retailer  Hallenstein
Glasson Holdings Ltd. , told the company’s annual meeting in
Christchurch on Dec. 7. “The opportunity to improve sales and
margin on the existing business base is now far more
challenging.”  Bollard’s focus is on keeping annual  inflation  within a
range of 1 percent to 3 percent as the economy grows and
government policies raise prices. An emissions-trading plan
effective July 1 boosted fuel and electricity costs, and from
Oct. 1 the sales tax was raised on all goods and services.  Bollard today forecast the consumer  price index  would rise
5 percent in the year ending June 30, 2011, from 1.7 percent a
year earlier. That’s faster than the 4.8 percent pace he
forecast three months ago.  By June 2012, inflation will have slowed to 2.1 percent,
less than the 2.2 percent previously forecast, the bank said.  “As growth recovers, current spare capacity will gradually
be used up, causing underlying inflation to pick up,” Bollard
said. “The gradual removal of policy stimulus is expected to
offset the accumulation of underlying inflation pressures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  