-- New York Mayor Bloomberg Says Jobs Require Less `Gridlock' From Leaders
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-12-08T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/new-york-mayor-bloomberg-says-jobs-require-less-gridlock-from-leaders.html
New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg 
called on Democrats and Republicans to go beyond “partisan
gridlock” and ideological disputes and embrace “common sense”
policies to stimulate the U.S. economy and create jobs.  One way would be to replicate the city’s  Workforce1 
training program that placed about 30,000 in jobs this year, 20
percent more than in 2009, Bloomberg said in remarks prepared
for business executives in Brooklyn today. The city’s economy
has fared better than most of the U.S., with unemployment
falling to 9.2 percent in October, the lowest since April 2009,
and below the national rate of 9.6 percent.  “As families struggle to get by, they have seen little but
partisan gridlock, political pandering and legislative
influence-peddling,” Bloomberg said at the now city-owned
Brooklyn Navy Yard to  the Association for a Better New York  and
the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce.  Bloomberg, 68, a one-time Democrat, switched to the
Republican Party before running for mayor in 2001 and 2005, only
to give up all party affiliations in 2007, when he began to
explore an independent presidential bid. He won election to a
third four-year term in 2009 on the Republican and Independence
Party ballots. He has said he doesn’t intend to run for
president.  The mayor, the majority owner of Bloomberg News parent
Bloomberg LP, was ranked the 10th richest American with
estimated assets of $18 billion by Forbes magazine in September.  He called upon elected officials in Washington and the
state capital in Albany to encourage investment and
entrepreneurship “instead of dependence on taxpayer bailouts
and taxpayer handouts.”  Job Creation  Bloomberg proposed five principles of job creation:
immigration laws that permit students and investors to live in
the U.S.; stable tax laws that instill investor and business
confidence, international trade promotion, “smarter
regulation,” and less taxation of business.  “For New York City to continue our growth, we need our
federal and state governments to chart a middle way,” he said,
“between a government that would stand on the sidelines and one
that would take over the game.”  The mayor described as “very encouraging” the compromise
between President  Barack Obama  and Republican congressional
leaders to extend tax cuts and unemployment benefits, calling it
“proof that bipartisanship really is possible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York City Hall at 
 Hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 