-- New Zealand Declares Drought in North Island Dairy, Sheep Farming Areas
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-12-08T00:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/new-zealand-declares-drought-in-north-island-dairy-sheep-farming-areas.html
New Zealand’s government has declared
parts of the North Island, including the dairy and sheep farming
region of Northland, to be a medium-level drought zone.  The announcement, which covers all areas north of
Auckland’s harbor bridge, will trigger relief measures for
farmers, Agriculture Minister  David Carter  said today in an e-
mailed statement. The measures include funding for the Rural
Support Trust to provide welfare and advice, he said.  “The situation in Northland is serious,” said Carter, who
visited the area today. “Farmers are still recovering from last
summer’s drought and they’re now facing it all over again, weeks
earlier than expected.”  Lower farm production could curb New Zealand’s  exports ,
which make up about 30 percent of the $125 billion economy.
 Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. , the largest dairy exporter,
collected 4.3 percent less milk from its North Island suppliers
in the season ended May 31 than a year earlier because of
extremely dry conditions in the Waikato province.  The chance of a drought in Waikato, the largest milk-
producing province, was “very high,” Carter said in an
interview last week. Fonterra said Dec. 2 it was monitoring
weather conditions closely.  Long Summer  “It’s shaping up to be a long summer and there is every
likelihood other areas will soon find themselves in the same
situation as Northland,” Carter said. Farmers need to make
“hard decisions” about stocking rates and feed levels, he said.  New Zealand is experiencing a La Nina weather pattern,
which is characterized by high early season temperatures,
according to the  National Institute of Water and Atmospheric
Research . The weather pattern may produce more rain than usual
later in the summer, the institute says.  “Even if there is a wet summer, as some weather experts
are predicting, this won’t change the severity of the situation
as Northland has experienced its driest spring on record,”
Carter said. “This is putting pressure on many farmers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson   iwilson2@bloomberg.net  