-- New Method of Gene Mapping From the Womb May Spot Mutations, Birth Defects
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 2010-12-08T19:58:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/new-method-of-gene-mapping-from-the-womb-may-spot-mutations-birth-defects.html
A new technique can map the genome of
an unborn baby from bits of its own DNA found floating in the
mother’s blood, offering a way to detect inherited conditions
without using invasive methods that may cause miscarriages.  The technology was used for the first time to identify the
full set of genes in a fetus conceived by two parents who each
carried mutations causing  beta thalassemia , an inherited blood
disorder. Researchers in Hong Kong obtained a blood sample from
the mother and father, analyzed each parent’s genes, isolated
the fetal genome from the mother’s blood and concluded the fetus
had inherited the father’s and not the mother’s mutation.  Mapping the entire genome of a fetus using this method
would take three weeks and costs about $200,000, said  Dennis Lo ,
the Hong Kong professor who developed the technique. He is
refining it to analyze only those portions of the genome that
are suspected of harboring mutations for any particular family.
This will reduce the cost, Lo said.  “For any particular family you want to screen, there are
only a handful of genes that are clinically important,” Lo, who
is the Li Ka Shing professor of medicine at Chinese University
of Hong Kong, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Prenatal screening now is conducted by techniques called
 amniocentesis  and  chorionic villus sampling  to find birth
defects and genetic mutations. Both methods involve inserting a
needle, either into the amniotic sac surrounding a fetus or into
the placenta to remove fluid that carries fetal DNA. The
techniques carry about a 1 percent risk of inducing a
miscarriage, Lo said.  ‘Worried Women’  “Many pregnant women going for such invasive prenatal
diagnosis are very worried,” Lo said. “A key objective of our
research is to develop a noninvasive platform for prenatal
diagnosis which does not carry this risk.  Today’s report, published in the journal  Science
Translational Medicine , caps more than a decade of work by Lo.
In 1997, he discovered that unborn fetuses release genetic
material into the blood of their mothers. About 10 percent of
the DNA floating in a pregnant woman’s bloodstream comes from
the fetus, not the mother.  Until now, there has been no practical way to figure out
which bits of DNA come from mom and which come from fetus, Lo
said. He developed the technique using maps of the mother’s and
father’s genes as guidelines and enlisting computational methods
to determine whether bits of floating DNA carry the signature of
the father or the mother. If the DNA bits are unique to the
father, they must therefore belong to the fetus. He has
developed software that accomplishes this analysis.  Jigsaw Challenge  “It’s more technologically challenging than most gene
sequencing,” Lo said. “Imagine millions of jigsaw puzzle
pieces and then put in 10 times as many pieces from another
jigsaw and you try to assemble the first one.”  Sequenom Inc.  of San Diego and the government of Hong Kong
provided funding for the study.  Before the technique can be used clinically, the cost must
be cut significantly and a host of ethical issues will need to
be addressed, Lo said. These include questions about who would
have access to the expensive technology, whether information
gathered might encourage abortions and whether it’s ethical to
collect such detailed personal information for someone who
hasn’t yet been born and doesn’t have a say in the decision.  “I think we need a lot of discussion between ethicists and
scientists,” Lo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 