-- New York Teachers' Union Fights City Over Release of Performance Reports
-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 2010-12-08T22:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/new-york-teachers-union-fights-city-over-release-of-performance-reports.html
The United Federation of Teachers
went to court to stop the New York City Department of Education
from publicly disclosing the names and performance reports of
teachers in the biggest U.S. public school system.  Oral arguments were held today before Justice Cynthia Kern
in New York state Supreme Court in Manhattan in the union’s suit
to block the release of evaluations meant to show individual
instructors’ success in boosting student test scores. The union
wants the teachers’ names redacted. Kern didn’t rule.  Charles Moerdler , an attorney for the union, told the judge
the data is flawed and misleading and intended for teachers and
administrators, not public release. He warned of damaging
teachers’ reputations and said a city agreement not to disclose
the material is binding.  Jesse Levine, the city’s assistant corporation counsel,
argued the reports are a “statistical tabulation” not exempt
from the state’s Freedom of Information Law, which news
organizations used to try to obtain and publish the data.  New York City’s public school system has 1.1 million
students, according to the Department of Education  website . Its
performance ratings use “value-added” analysis to assess
teachers, according to a court filing by the union. This
approach attempts to determine whether pupils make larger or
smaller gains than their previous test scores would have
predicted.  ‘No Case Law’  “No case law supports the withholding of statistical data
solely because it contains errors,” Levine wrote in court
papers on behalf of the department. The data went through a
verification process and “individual claims of error are
addressed,” Levine wrote.  A 2008 letter from a deputy chancellor of schools to the
union agreeing to keep the teacher data confidential doesn’t
matter, the department said.  “What we said is these are used for internal purposes and
we will not voluntarily disclose,” Levine told the judge. The
“law compels” the department to release the information.  “An agency’s agreement to maintain confidentiality is of
no consequence if it is obligated under FOIL to disclose
requested information,” he wrote in his brief.  Public employees also have a more limited right to privacy
than the general public, and any invasion of privacy “is
outweighed by the public interest in disclosure,” the
department said.  ‘Privacy’  “The letter explicitly said, ‘We’re going to give you
privacy,’” Moerdler said. “No teacher will ever again
participate in any pilot project if this is not the case.”  Moerdler described a hypothetical story in the New York
Post with the headline “The 100 Worst Teachers in New York”
and said reputations might be ruined based on flawed data.  The Wall Street Journal, New York Post and New York Daily
News were among the news organizations that sought to have the
teacher ratings disclosed. Bloomberg News also filed a request.
New York was scheduled to release the data on 12,000 teachers
before an agreement was reached in October to withhold the names
until the case was heard.  David Schulz, an attorney representing news organizations
including the Post, told the judge that the quality of the
information wasn’t a reason to withhold it.  ‘Taxpayers’ Money’  “FOIL exists to expose agencies that are incompetent in
doing things with taxpayers’ money,” Schulz said. “People who
are doing work at taxpayer expense recognize they have a
diminished expectation of privacy with respect to their jobs,”
he said.  The Los Angeles Times in August published a series of
articles that analyzed 6,000 Los Angeles elementary school
teachers’ effectiveness in raising students’ math and English
scores. The release of the data spurred union protest, and one
teacher committed suicide after the articles’ publication.  “The relief we seek is to redact the names,” Moerdler
said. “The city of Los Angeles did this routine and a teacher
jumped off a bridge. Do we need that?”  New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg is the founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News.  The case is Mulgrew v. Board of Education of the City,
113813/2010, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 