-- Booker Pledges ‘Innovative’ Responses to Newark’s Rating Cut
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-12-09T15:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/newark-cut-by-moody-s-as-deficit-financing-boosts-above-average-debt-load.html
Newark Mayor  Cory Booker’s 
administration promised a balanced 2011 budget through
“innovative strategies” after Moody’s Investors Service cut
the credit rating on  New Jersey ’s biggest city.  Moody’s lowered Newark’s rating one step yesterday to A3,
the fourth-lowest investment grade, and issued a negative
outlook on the city’s debt because of its inability to balance
its annual budget.  Newark  may face a deficit of $30.5 million
for 2011, Moody’s said in its report. Booker raised property
taxes 16 percent, fired police and plans to sell some city
buildings to balance its $605 million budget this year.  The downgrade is “an unfortunate byproduct of the toughest
national economic environment in over 70 years,” Anne Torres, a
spokeswoman for Newark, said in a statement e-mailed last night.  “The city is proud of its ability to produce a balanced
budget in 2010 and confident it will achieve similar success in
2011,” she said. “The city will leverage its A3 rating to
continue to develop innovative strategies, improve service
delivery and pursue long-term revenue opportunities through
utility enhancement to ensure ongoing fiscal integrity.”  About a quarter of the city’s residents live below the
poverty level, while unemployment reached 14.9 percent in
August, when it was 9.4 in the state and 9.5 percent nationwide,
according to the report. Moody’s had placed Newark’s rating on
review for a possible reduction on Aug. 13. The downgrade
affects $500 million in general-obligation debt outstanding.  More Challenges Ahead  “Revenues remain uncertain and additional expenditure cuts
of a significant nature may be difficult to achieve,” analysts
including  Josellyn Yousef  said in the report. “The city may be
challenged to further reduce headcount through means other than
attrition in order to generate what may be very large needed
savings.”  Moody’s issued its downgrade in connection with $73 million
in general-obligation revenue bonds the Essex County Improvement
Authority is scheduled to issue for Newark’s budget relief later
this month. A portion of those bonds were rated one level below
the city’s A3 rating because their repayment cost will be
subject to New Jersey’s 2 percent limit on property-tax growth.  Proceeds of that sale will pay Newark $42 million for about
20 firehouses, police stations and public buildings being
transferred to the authority.  Residents of Newark, a city of about 280,000 that is home
to  Prudential Financial Inc. , had a median family income that
was 66 percent of the U.S. median in the three years through
2008, according to Census Bureau  figures .  ‘Wouldn’t Be Crazy’  “Moody’s wouldn’t be crazy” to cut the city’s bond
rating, even after steps that have been taken to balance budgets
in the current year and next year, Business Administrator Julien
Neals said prior to the decision. He said the city’s 2011
deficit may reach as high as $42 million.  Neals said Newark’s moves to eliminate about 700 workers
over the past year and boost property taxes couldn’t be expected
to automatically bring higher ratings.  “What we don’t have any control over are how the steps we
take will translate into confidence on the part of Moody’s and
the market,” Neals said in an interview Dec. 7. “When we go to
market, there’s a completely different weighting scale.”  Booker took office in 2006 seeking to end chronic deficits
by this year. He was re-elected to a second term this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  