-- No Signs OPEC Must Adjust Quotas as Inventories High, Qatar Minister Says
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2010-12-08T21:31:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/no-signs-opec-must-adjust-quotas-qatar-minister-says-update1-.html
There are no signs OPEC must adjust
crude production quotas at a meeting this week, even with a
rally in prices, Qatar’s oil minister said.  The recent rise in oil prices isn’t related to supply and
demand,  Abdullah bin Hamad al-Attiyah  said in an interview in
Cancun, Mexico, today. Oil inventories are at record levels
while the economic recovery in Europe and the U.S. is choppy, he
said.  “We’re not seeing so far that the demand will continuously
rise very high, especially in Europe and North America,” al-
Attiyah said. “Inventory is high, leaning to oversupply.”  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which
accounts for 40 percent of global supply, will meet in Quito,
Ecuador, on Dec. 11 to discuss whether to maintain current
production quotas. Oil futures reached a more-than two-year high
in New York yesterday, climbing above $90 a barrel.  Al-Attiyah’s comments concur with all but one of 39
analysts and traders in a Bloomberg News survey who said the
group will maintain output limits set in 2008. Ministers from
Angola, Venezuela and Libya have said OPEC probably will keep
its 24.845 million-barrel-a-day target.  Crude-oil prices fell today on the New York Mercantile
Exchange after a U.S. Energy Department report showed unexpected
increases in inventories of gasoline and distillate fuels.
Oil for January delivery dropped 41 cents to settle at $88.28 a
barrel on Nymex.  Inventories ‘Highest Ever’  Inventories are “the highest ever in history,” al-Attiyah
said. Prices “are not reacting to supply and demand.”  Oil consumption in China, the world’s biggest energy user,
will increase by 9.8 percent this year and demand in North
America will rise 2.1 percent, according to the Paris-based
International Energy Agency. It will decline 0.9 percent in
Europe’s most advanced economies, the IEA said.  OPEC hasn’t altered quotas at any of its six meetings since
December 2008, when the group announced record supply cuts that
have left the 12-member organization with about 6 million
barrels a day of spare capacity, almost three times the daily
output of Nigeria alone.  Iran said yesterday that oil prices of $100 a barrel won’t
hurt the world economy, taking into account the depreciation of
the U.S. dollar. Iran’s OPEC governor,  Mohammad Ali Khatibi ,
spoke in an interview with state news agency Shana.  “In the $80’s is the best price for the time being for
producers and consumers,” al-Attiyah said today. Qatar produced
an estimated 820,000 barrels of oil a day in November, making it
the second-lowest producer among the OPEC nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in Cancun at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 