-- North-South Border Dispute Could Ignite Civil War, Sudanese Official  Says
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2010-12-08T20:59:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/north-south-border-dispute-could-ignite-civil-war-sudanese-official-says.html
A disputed 20 percent of Sudan’s
north-south border could ignite a new war in the country, a top
aide to President  Umar al-Bashir  said in an interview with Al
Jazeera.  A new war “could be worse” than the two-decade civil war
that ended in 2005, presidential assistant  Nafie Ali Nafie  told
the Qatar-based television channel today. The Sudan People’s
Liberation Movement, the former rebel movement that now governs
the southern region, is now “better armed,” Nafie said.  Bashir’s National Congress Party says the border must be
agreed on before a referendum in which Southern Sudanese will
decide whether their semi-autonomous region will split from
Sudan and form an independent country. Southern Sudan accounts
for as much as 80 percent of the country’s 490,000 barrels of
daily oil production.  The referendum, scheduled for Jan. 9, is a major component
of the 2005 peace agreement that ended two-decade war between
the south, where Christianity and traditional beliefs dominate,
and the Muslim north. About 2 million people died in the
conflict and more than 4 million were displaced.  Bashir’s party wants a “political agreement” with the
Sudan People’s Liberation Movement on the entire border between
the two regions, as well as on how they will share foreign debt
obligations and oil income, before the vote is held, Rabie Abdel
Ati, a senior National Congress Party official, said in October.  SPLM officials have threatened to organize their own
referendum if the north tries to delay the poll, saying there’s
no need to agree on the border beforehand because Southern
Sudanese across the country will be eligible to vote, not just
those living in the south.  Sudan is sub-Saharan Africa’s third-largest producer,
according to the BP Statistical Review of World Energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maram Mazen  in Khartoum via the Cairo newsroom at
   mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 