-- Norway Oil Fund Says Europe Bet Pays Off on Strong Bond Outlook
-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2010-12-09T10:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/norway-oil-fund-says-europe-bet-pays-off-on-region-s-strong-bond-outlook.html
Norway’s $510 billion sovereign
wealth fund, the world’s second biggest, says its bet that
Europe will emerge from the debt crisis is paying off as the
region’s bond markets promise to deliver a “strong” recovery.  “This year, you’re actually getting compensated to a
larger extent for the risk that is obviously there, so we’d
rather say we’re more comfortable than less comfortable than a
year ago,”  Yngve Slyngstad , head of the Norges Bank Investment
Management that manages the fund, said in an interview yesterday
with Bloomberg Television’s  Francine Lacqua . “Going forward, I
think the European bond market will be strong and healthy.”  The Government Pension Fund Global, which last year cut its
holdings of peripheral European bonds, rekindled its interest in
Greek, Spanish, Portuguese and Italian government debt going
into the third quarter, betting on a rebound following the
bailout of Greece in May. At the end of September, Spanish debt
was the fund’s seventh-biggest bond holding.  Ireland’s decision last month to resort to European
emergency funding revived concerns that Spain and Portugal may
struggle to finance their budget deficits. To avoid contagion
and calm markets, European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said Dec. 2 the bank will delay a withdrawal of
emergency liquidity as it buys more government bonds from
peripheral euro-area members.  ‘Troubling’  Europe remains in a “troubling” situation, said  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the head of the International Monetary Fund, in a
speech in Geneva yesterday. The effects of the global financial
turmoil “are far from over” and Europe’s future “is more
uncertain than ever,” he said.  The Washington-based lender is contributing to Ireland’s
85-billion euro ($113 billion) rescue package, agreed almost
seven months after Greece’s 110-billion euro bailout.  “The politicians have been doing quite a good job in 2010
to deal with a very difficult situation,” Slyngstad said. “So
we’re confident that the politicians will continue to do the
work necessary to stabilize the market.”  The difference in yield, or spread, between 10-year Spanish
bonds and German bunds has narrowed to about 228 basis points,
or 2.28 percentage points, from a record 283 basis points at the
end of November, while the  spread  between 10-year Irish bonds
and the European benchmark narrowed to 500 basis points, from a
record 668 basis points on Nov. 30, according to Bloomberg data.  Government debt trading flows show there is some appetite
for bonds issued by Ireland, Portugal and Italy, according to
ING Groep NV.  Peripheral ‘Nibbling’  “We have seen some reasonable nibbling of peripheral paper
from the buyside,”  Padhraic Garvey , ING head of developed-
market debt strategy in Amsterdam, wrote in a note today.  “The spreads are generally generous enough to compensate
for that risk, so some inclusion of the PIIGS in a portfolio is
probably prudent,” said  Everett Brown , European Bond Strategist
at IDEAglobal in London, in an e-mailed reply to questions.  “The short-term is a different story,” he said, referring
to bonds issued by Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain.
I’m skeptical of the recent calm, and expect tensions to resume
soon, at least by January, when trading picks up and the
countries resume auction funding.”  Norway’s oil fund manages the country’s oil wealth for
future generations, allowing it to adopt a long-term investment
horizon and take on more risk, Finance Minister  Sigbjoern Johnsen  said in August.  ‘Huge Stake’  Investments in Europe represented 60.4 percent of the
fund’s fixed income portfolio as of September, up from 59.6
percent in June. The fund held 1.15 trillion kroner ($190
billion) in fixed-income at the end of the third quarter.  “We have as much as 100 billion euros in the European bond
market so we have a huge stake in the market working,”
Slyngstad said. “For us, it’s more about how the situation
between the sovereign debt and the banks is going to work out.”  The fund, which got its first capital infusion in 1996, has
been taking on more risk as it expands globally, adding stocks
in 1998, emerging markets in 2000 and this year real estate to
bolster returns and safeguard the wealth of the world’s seventh-
largest oil exporter.  It this year petitioned Norway’s Finance Ministry, which
oversees the fund’s investments, to allow it to move into
infrastructure and private equity. The proposal was last month
backed by the ministry’s Strategy Council, an independent
adviser, which said the fund needs to take on more risk to
achieve a real return of 4 percent.  China, India  The fund’s real annualized return since 1998 is 2.85
percent. It lost 23 percent in 2008. Most of the losses were
recouped the following year and the fund gained 5.4 percent
through the first nine months of this year.  Slyngstad said the fund, which invests Norway’s oil wealth
outside its borders to avoid overheating the economy, expects to
add more fixed-income investments in China, the world’s fastest
growing major economy, and India to capture more “world
growth.”  At the end of last year, the fund held 381 million kroner
in Chinese fixed-income assets, of which 240 million kroner were
in China Government International Bond. The fund’s benchmarks
limit it to holding about 5 percent in bonds from Asia and
Oceania, 60 percent in Europe and 35 percent in the Americas. At
the end of the third quarter, it held 5.5 percent of its fixed
income portfolio in Asia and Oceania.  ‘Sooner or Later’  China’s gross domestic product will expand about 10 percent
this year and next, the Paris-based Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said on Nov. 18. India’s economy
will grow about 8 percent, the OECD estimates. Global output
will expand 4.2 percent next year, the organization forecasts.  “We don’t have a currency exposure to the Chinese renminbi
or the Indian rupee because we’re not allowed as a bond investor
to invest a significant amount,” Slyngstad said.  “Sooner or
later we think this will change.”  Only Abu Dhabi has a larger wealth fund, according to the
Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute in California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Josiane Kremer  in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net 
 Marianne Stigset  in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  