-- TNT Says Dutch Mail Carriers' Strike May Delay Delivery of Christmas Cards
-- B y   J e r o e n   M o l e n a a r
-- 2010-12-08T10:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/tnt-says-dutch-mail-carriers-strike-may-delay-delivery-of-christmas-cards.html
TNT NV , the Dutch postal company
spinning off its express-delivery business, may lose customers
as its mail carriers in the Netherlands went on strike two weeks
before the Christmas holidays.  “At times we can’t offer certainty, clients may choose
other options, like digitalizing their mail or choosing a
competitor,” TNT spokeswoman  Wendy Eelsing  said in a telephone
interview today. “We do think we can deliver the Christmas
cards in time, albeit with a slight delay.”  Postal workers began a three-day strike last night over
planned jobs cuts at the Netherlands’ largest postal-delivery
service. The Abvakabo FNV union, which represents 10,000 TNT
staff, doesn’t rule out additional walkouts before the holidays,
spokeswoman Ilse van der Poel said.  TNT , which last year lost its state-regulated monopoly on
letter-delivery, is aiming to cut 11,000 positions because of
increasing competition in its domestic market and eroding
delivery prices. Letter volumes are also dropping due to e-mail.
TNT last week announced plans to spin off the Express unit, the
second-biggest in Europe, and retain the smaller mail division.  “We don’t know if there’re any clients that have already
made the switch” to rivals including closely held Dutch Sandd
and  Deutsche Post AG ’s Selekt Mail, said Eelsing. “It’s hard to
say what the financial implications” will be, she said.  Mail operations  contributed  41 percent of TNT’s annual
sales of 10.4 billion euros ($13.8 billion) in 2009. The unit
accounted for 73 percent of group operating profit of 648
million euros last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeroen Molenaar  in Amsterdam at 
 jmolenaar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ; 