-- Democratic Senators Urge Their Leaders to Add Build Americas to Tax Deal
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2010-12-08T23:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/obama-deal-with-republicans-leaves-democratic-allies-with-tough-sales-job.html
Senate Democrats are seeking changes
to a tax-cut agreement President  Barack Obama  reached with
Republican lawmakers, said Majority Leader  Harry Reid , who hopes
to bring the measure to the floor this week.  Some changes “would make the bill much better, and I’m
going to work on those,” Reid of Nevada told reporters after
meeting with members of his party today to discuss the plan. He
said he hopes the Senate would take the measure up “in the next
day or two.” Asked whether the Senate would have the votes to
pass the measure, he said, “I hope so.”  The proposed two-year extension of Bush-era tax cuts for
all income levels has prompted division among congressional
Democrats. Vice President  Joe Biden , who met with Senate
Democrats yesterday to try to sell the proposal, conducted a
session with House Democrats today.  “It was a contentious meeting,” said Representative  Jim Moran , a Virginia Democrat. “A majority of the Democratic
caucus is disappointed with the deal and the way it was done.”  Moran said that Biden told Democrats that “it was the best
deal that could have been gotten, the alternative was much
worse.”  Exploring Options  Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of Maryland, part of the
House Democratic leadership team, said his party is “exploring
our options.”  Senator  John Cornyn  of Texas, a member of the Republican
leadership, said he expects few changes to the negotiated pact,
even though Democrats may want them.  “I don’t think there’s going to be any real changes to speak
of,” he said.  Obama earlier today rejected the notion that he betrayed
congressional Democrats by making the deal.  “I think Democrats are looking at this bill, and you’ve
already had a whole bunch of them who said ‘this makes sense,’”
Obama said following an Oval Office meeting with Polish
President  Bronislaw Komorowski . “I think they’re going to feel
confident that, in fact, this is the right course.”  Democratic Senator  Jim Webb  of Virginia called the
agreement the “ultimate stimulus plan” that “shows great
promise for reinvigorating the economy” by putting more money
in the pockets of workers and small-business owners.  “The American people, and particularly those who are out
of work, cannot afford to wait while politics-as-usual blocks an
effective, bipartisan plan to stimulate the economy and restore
growth,” he said in a statement.  ‘Imperfect Agreement’  Lawrence Summers , Obama’s chief economic adviser, told
reporters in a briefing that a failure by Congress to adopt what
he called an “imperfect agreement” would raise the risk of a
double-dip recession.  “I don’t think at the end of the day the Congress will
take a step that materially increases the risk of this economy
stalling,” Summers said.  Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky said
yesterday a “vast majority” of his caucus would support the
deal.  Democrat  Max Baucus  of Montana, chairman of the Senate
Finance Committee, said no deal has been reached. “We’re trying
to get this focused more on middle-income taxpayers,” he said.  Leading Democrats for months pushed Obama’s position that
income-tax cuts enacted during President  George W. Bush ’s
administration should be extended beyond Dec. 31 only on the
first $200,000 earned by individuals and $250,000 by couples
filing jointly.  Higher Earners  Obama, in the deal he announced Dec. 6, yielded to the
Republican insistence that tax cuts for higher earners also be
extended.  The plan would create a top federal estate tax rate of 35
percent while exempting the first $5 million from each
individual’s estate. It would be the second-lowest estate tax in
80 years.  Representative  Bennie Thompson , a Mississippi Democrat,
said today he will vote against the package. He was critical of
the estate-tax provision, saying it was included even though it
“wasn’t even on the table.”  House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat,
yesterday termed the estate tax provision “a bridge too far.”
She also said that in general, “the response has not been very
good” among House Democrats to the deal.  House Democrats on Dec. 2 passed a plan to extend Bush-era
tax cuts only for middle-income families over the objections of
Republicans. The legislation was derailed in the Senate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 Cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  