-- Obama Proposes Easing Export Controls on Technology Products for 37 Allies
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2010-12-09T18:03:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/obama-proposes-easing-export-controls-on-technology-products-for-37-allies.html
U.S. export controls for technology
items with military uses would be eased on sales to 37 allies, a
change that President Barack Obama says will help meet his goal
of doubling American exports.  The Commerce Department asked U.S. industry groups to
review its proposal today to relax limits on sales to countries
such as Germany, Japan and Canada for items such as aviation
navigation systems, electronic components and common resins.  “The world wants products made in America, and we’ve got
workers ready to make them,” Obama said today at a White House
meeting of his export council, whose members include  Boeing Co. 
Chief Executive Officer  James McNerney ,  United Parcel Service 
Inc. CEO  Scott Davis  and  Xerox Corp . CEO  Ursula Burns . “At a
time when jobs are in short supply, growing our export markets
is an imperative.”  The U.S. requires exporters to obtain a license to sell
civilian technology, such as  aircraft parts  and encryption
software, that also can be used for military purposes. The
restrictions vary based on U.S. relations with the government,
and those rules are administered by the Commerce Department and
State Department.  Commerce Secretary  Gary Locke  proposed eliminating export
controls for sales to close allies a year ago, and has pushed to
get the rules released, saying the changes will boost both U.S.
exports and national security.  The changes proposed today are substantial, Davis told
reporters after the council meeting. “We’ve seen areas where 75
percent of products that were controlled” will be open to
export, he said.  Doubling Exports  The process to obtain such export licenses slows commerce
and harms the competitiveness of American manufacturers, Locke
said this week in an interview. Obama has made easing those
rules part of his effort to double U.S. exports in five years.  Obama highlighted for the council trade initiatives his
administration has undertaken, such as revising a free-trade
agreement with South Korea that he said would support 70,000
jobs, and deals with India and Russia.  An administration official, who briefed reporters on the
condition of anonymity last night, said putting the rules in
place will take most of next year.  “Conceptually this is a very important move forward,”
Catherine Robinson, the director for high-technology trade
policy at the  National Association of Manufacturers , a
Washington-based industry trade group, said yesterday.  Military, Technology  Four export rules were published today for comment,
including new regulations on the export of military vehicles,
criteria for creating a tiered system to classify technology for
export and lessening restrictions on exports to certain
countries.  The proposed regulation would give companies the ability to
export without a prior government license for sales of many
items to 37 nations: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium,
Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia,
Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland,
Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, the Netherlands,
New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia,
Slovenia, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey,
Ukraine and the United Kingdom.  A narrower category of items may be sold to 125 nations
without approval by the government, according to the draft rule.
Not included on either list was China. Its top leaders complain
frequently that U.S. technology controls dampen American exports
and exacerbate the bilateral trade deficit.  Military Vehicles  The State Department today separately published a proposal
on how it controls the sale of military vehicles, a plan the
administration is using as a template to guide how it plans to
overhaul the system to regulate military items.  The proposals on changes to the State Department list and
the overall effort may ease some of the restrictions on trade
with China, according to Larry Christensen, a lawyer at Miller &
Chevalier in Washington.  “Export controls have never had this level of attention
before,” he said. “There is a significant chance for a much
better system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net  