-- Obama's Compromise on Extending Highest-Income Tax Cuts Unpopular in Poll
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-12-08T16:29:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/obama-s-compromise-on-extending-highest-income-tax-cuts-unpopular-in-poll.html
Americans don’t approve of keeping
the breaks for upper-income taxpayers that are part of the deal
President  Barack Obama  brokered with congressional Republicans,
a Bloomberg National Poll shows.  The survey, conducted before, during and after the tax
negotiations, shows that only a third of Americans support
keeping the lower rates for the highest earners. Even among
backers of the cuts for the wealthy, fewer than half say they
should be made permanent.  Another third say they want only the tax cuts for the
middle class to be extended, while more than a fourth say all
the tax cuts should be allowed to expire Dec. 31, as scheduled.  The agreement Obama announced Dec. 6 would temporarily
sustain the tax cuts for all income levels. The president said
the compromise was needed to break a deadlock with congressional
Republicans who vowed to block tax cuts for middle-income
Americans if those for individuals earning more than $200,000
and couples earning more than $250,000 weren’t extended, too.  “I’m as opposed to the high-end tax cuts today as I’ve
been for years,” Obama told reporters yesterday. “In the long
run, we simply can’t afford them. And when they expire in two
years, I will fight to end them.”  Still, many of the respondents in the poll conducted Dec.
4-7 said they wouldn’t support the compromise.  Widening Income Gap  Poll respondent Vicky Vasconi Hale, 51, of San Jose,
California, says she disagrees with the president because the
agreement will widen the gap between the rich and poor.  “We used to have three income levels: poverty or lower
income, middle class and high income,” says Vasconi Hale, a
Democrat who ran a clothing business and is now unemployed.
“The middle class is gone.”  Obama yesterday described the agreement as a “good deal
for the American people.” In exchange for the concession on the
tax break for high earners, Republicans said they would lift
their opposition to a 13-month extension of federal unemployment
insurance for the long-term jobless. The deal also included
Obama’s proposal to cut the payroll tax that funds Social
Security and Medicare by $120 billion for one year to help spur
hiring.  “My job is to do whatever I can to get this economy
moving,” Obama said.  Obama, 49, inherited an economy in crisis. Joblessness,
which reached a 26-year high of 10.1 percent in October 2009,
stood at  9.8 percent  nationwide last month.  Treasury Yields  Most U.S. stocks retreated today as concern over China
overshadowed optimism the tax-cut plan would help bolster
growth. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  slipped 0.3 percent to
1,218.93 at 10:42 a.m. in New York, erasing an early gain of 0.4
percent.  Treasuries slid yesterday, pushing the  two-year note yield 
up the most since March, amid concern the extension of the tax
cuts would widen the  budget deficit , which was $1.3 trillion for
the fiscal year ended Sept. 30, according to the Treasury
Department. The rout in Treasuries sent the 10-year yield to a
five-month high of 3.13 percent. In trading in New York at 10:18
a.m. today, the yield rose to 3.24 percent.  There is a big divide among self-described Republicans and
Democrats over the tax cuts. More than half of Republicans want
to extend them for wealthier Americans, while only 1 in 6
Democrats supports that view. Independents are a little closer
to Democrats on the issue.  Deficit Cutting  A plurality of Democrats favor extending the cuts only for
middle-class taxpayers, though a third would let all tax cuts
expire and use the revenue to help cut the federal budget
deficit. Put in the context of deficit reduction, 6 in 10 poll
participants favor raising rates on the wealthiest.  “The middle class is being hurt in every single way,”
said poll respondent Marleny Diaz-Gloster, 39, who works as a
researcher for a nonprofit organization. “We are the hardest
hit when it comes to taxes, and we’re being squeezed.”  Diaz-Gloster, a Democrat who lives in New York City, said
she was happy to see compromise between the parties, though
those making more than $250,000 “can afford to pay more.”  Poll participants with the highest incomes, those making
$100,000 or more, are slightly more supportive of making the tax
cuts permanent for all income levels than others. Those earning
the least, less than $25,000 a year, are the most likely to
support letting all the tax cuts expire.  Appropriate Level  When asked to choose an appropriate income level for higher
taxes, about 20 percent of poll respondents said taxes should be
raised only on those earning $1 million or more. About 3 in 10
selected a $500,000 threshold, while more than 4 in 10 picked
the current $250,000 limit.  “The public seems reasonably ready for a tax on the
wealthiest because it addresses a core issue of deficit
reduction,” says J.  Ann Selzer , president of  Selzer & Co. , a
Des Moines, Iowa-based firm that conducted the nationwide
survey. “Time will tell whether the mood in two years will be
more or less favorable to a main Obama campaign promise.”  In making their case for the compromise, Obama and his
advisers said that while the nation can’t afford to extend the
lower top tax rates permanently, a standoff that would have
allowed taxes to increase for the rest of taxpayers would damage
the fragile economic recovery.  “Extending tax cuts for the wealthy is unpopular,” said
 David Axelrod , a senior adviser to Obama. “It’s unpopular with
us. But ask people if they would rather we forge a compromise
that would prevent a tax increase on the middle class, the
denial of unemployment insurance to millions of Americans and
resultant loss of many more jobs, you’ll get a starkly different
answer.”  The Bloomberg National Poll is based on interviews with
1,000 U.S. adults age 18 or older and has a margin of error of
plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Washington at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  