-- Obama Tax Deal May Spark Business Hiring, Bank of America's Moynihan Says
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-12-08T12:23:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/obama-tax-deal-may-lead-to-more-business-hiring-moynihan-says.html
President  Barack Obama ’s agreement to
extend current tax rates may help prompt U.S. business owners to
boost hiring, said  Bank of America Corp.  Chief Executive Officer
 Brian Moynihan .  “The attitudinal switch helps when the people are saying,
‘Okay, they’re trying, and they’re helping us,’” Moynihan, 51,
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  Companies have mostly refrained from hiring as they wait to
see signs of economic growth in the wake of the worst recession
in decades. The Labor Department said last week the unemployment
rate rose to a seven-month high of 9.8 percent in November even
as data showed sales at retailers climbed by the most in eight
months.  Obama said Dec. 6 that he’ll agree to a two-year extension
of all Bush-era tax cuts in exchange for extending federal
unemployment insurance, moving to break a stalemate with
Republicans before Congress adjourns. The current tax rates,
enacted in 2001 and 2003, are set to expire Dec. 31. His plan
would cut the payroll tax by 2 percentage points.  “What’s probably most important is to have the attitude
that, ‘Yes, I will hire more, yes, I will do more, because I
think that I’m being supported,’” Moynihan said. Some of his
remarks will be aired today, and the full interview will be
shown Dec. 10 on “InBusiness with  Margaret Brennan .”  In addition to keeping the current tax rates for all
Americans, the plan outlined by Obama would extend aid for the
long-term unemployed for another 13 months.  Looking Forward  Bank of America will boost its  dividend  from the current
penny a share “as fast as we can,” Moynihan said yesterday at
a conference in New York. The Charlotte, North Carolina-based
company is the largest U.S. lender by assets.  “Our view is, as we look forward, we will return through
dividends to about 30 percent of the earnings” and the rest
will be for share repurchases, Moynihan said in the Bloomberg
Television interview. The quarterly payout was as high as 64
cents a share in 2008.  The lender slipped 7 cents yesterday to $11.57 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The company has declined 23
percent this year.  Bank of America is “wholly unaffected” by previous
activities that led the lender to pay $137 million in
restitution for involvement in rigging bids on municipal bonds
because the actions stopped years ago, Moynihan said.  “We made all the changes years and years ago, so what goes
on downstairs here on that desk is wholly unaffected,” he said.  The firm agreed to pay $36 million to settle a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission case tied to 88 municipal
bond contracts and an additional $101 million to resolve
investigations by other federal and state agencies, the SEC said
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Brennan  in New York at 
 mbrennan25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  