-- Oil Advances for First Time in Three Days as Crude Drop Exceeds Forecast
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 2010-12-09T08:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/oil-rises-first-time-in-three-days-as-crude-supply-drop-exceeds-forecasts.html
Oil rose for the first time in three
days after a U.S. government report showed  crude stockpiles  held
by the world’s biggest consumer of the fuel declined almost
three times more than forecast.  Futures reversed yesterday’s 0.5 percent drop after the
Energy Department said inventories fell 3.82 million barrels
last week to 355.9 million. Supplies were  forecast  to decrease
1.4 million, according to the median estimate of 16 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose
to a two-year high in New York following President  Barack Obama ’s extension of Bush-era tax cuts earlier this week.  “If you look at this crude number as part of a trend,
you’re definitely starting to see a decline,” said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy economist at National Australia
Bank Ltd. in Melbourne. “It looks to be something more
fundamental happening and might be providing a bit of impetus.
In the short to medium term, the tax cuts are important for U.S.
demand and consumption growth.”  Crude for January delivery rose as much as $1.14, or 1.3
percent, to $89.42 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. The contract was at $89.21 at 8:37
a.m. London time. Brent crude for January settlement rose as
much as 83 cents, or 0.9 percent, to $91.60 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  U.S.  gasoline  inventories added 3.81 million barrels to 214
million last week, the biggest percentage increase since
November 2009. Stockpiles were forecast to decline 300,000
barrels, based on the Bloomberg survey.  Distillate fuel 
supplies, including heating oil and diesel, climbed 2.15 million
barrels to 160.2 million, ending a 10-week drawdown.  Runs ‘Surge’  U.S. product inventories increased as refiners boosted
processing by the most since October 2008. Capacity utilization
rose 4.9 percentage points to 87.5 percent, the Energy
Department report said. That’s the highest rate since the week
ended Sept. 17.  The data were “entirely driven by a surge in crude runs,”
 Michael Wittner , New York-based head of oil market research at
Societe Generale SA, said in a report yesterday. “Refiners
processed much more crude week-on-week, which drove an
unexpected crude draw. Product supply rose significantly.”  Fuel demand in terms of  products supplied  by refiners
jumped 8.3 percent last week to 20 million barrels a day,
according to the Energy Department. That’s the biggest gain
since the week to May 7, 2004.  Bollinger Bands  Oil in New York may halt its advance past a 26-month peak
above $90 a barrel because of resistance on technical charts
indicated by Bollinger Bands, according to Cameron Hanover Inc.  Crude climbed to $90.76 a barrel on Dec. 7, the highest
intraday price since October 2008. Investors may start selling
contracts when prices advance to around $90.55, said  Peter Beutel , president of the energy adviser in New Canaan,
Connecticut. That’s the higher of two Bollinger Bands.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will keep
output targets unchanged as oil rises toward $100 a barrel,
according to  Shokri Ghanem , chairman of Libya’s National Oil
Corp. OPEC pumps about 40 percent of the world’s crude.  The 12-member group will probably agree on a quota
extension and focus on discussing output compliance when it
meets Dec. 11 in Quito, Ecuador, Ghanem said yesterday at
Amsterdam’s Schiphol airport. Oil will climb to $100 “pretty
soon” and once that happens, group members may alter their
production strategy, he said.  Prices “are not reacting to supply and demand,” Qatar’s
Energy Minister  Abdullah bin Hamad al-Attiyah  said in an
interview in Cancun, Mexico. Oil inventories are at record
levels and the economic recovery in Europe and the U.S. has been
choppy, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Canberra at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net . 