-- Mondrian's Stark Grids Intrigue in Superb Paris Exhibit: Jorg von Uthmann
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2010-12-08T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/mondrian-s-stark-grids-intrigue-in-superb-paris-exhibit-jorg-von-uthmann.html
Prince Charles  hates right angles.  “Why has everything got to be vertical, straight,
unbending,” he asked in a speech at the 150th anniversary of
the  Royal Institute of British Architects  in 1984, “only at
right angles and functional?”  Mondrian , the Dutch painter, would have disagreed. For him,
straight lines and right angles had a metaphysical quality: They
revealed a universal harmony beneath the surface of
representational beauty.  Mondrian (1872-1944), along with  Kandinsky  and  Malevich  one
of the founding fathers of abstract art, is the subject of a
spectacular exhibition at the  Pompidou Center  in Paris. This is
what the center, which often gets lost in highfalutin’ projects,
does best -- shows with a sharp focus, rich documentation and
superb loans.  It starts and ends with several rooms devoted to De Stijl,
or The Style, a loose association of Dutch artists, founded in
1917, to which Mondrian belonged for a while.  In the same year, Mondrian, already in his forties, found
the rigorously geometrical style for which he is known today.
From then on, the common denominator of his canvases was an
asymmetrical grid of black lines forming rectangles of various
sizes mostly in the primary colors: blue, red and yellow.  The show includes some of his earlier, more conventional
works. Looking at them, you understand the verdict of the jurors
when he twice failed to win the Prix de Rome: “Application:
good. Talent: fair.”  Cubist Moment  In 1911, he discovered Cubist paintings by Picasso and
Braque in an Amsterdam exhibition. They changed his life. He
moved to Paris and stayed there until the outbreak of World War
I forced him to go back to Holland.  It was during those war years that Mondrian met Theo van
Doesburg, a talented painter and writer and the driving force
behind De Stijl who tirelessly promoted an austere clarity that
would purify art and life. This almost sounds like the Bauhaus
philosophy; in fact, Van Doesburg did teach in Weimar.  There were other, more esoteric, influences. As a young
man, Mondrian had toyed with the idea of becoming a Calvinist
minister. In 1909, he changed tack and joined the Theosophical
Society of Amsterdam, thereby subscribing to the belief that
it’s possible to attain wisdom through disembodiment.  Back from Paris, he fell under the spell of a guru named
Mathieu Schoenmaekers, who preached the gospel of a “Nieuwe
Wereldbeeld,” or New Image of the World. It was in homage to
Schoenmaekers, whom he later dismissed as a charlatan, that
Mondrian called his mature style “Nieuwe Beelding,” clumsily
translated as Neo-Plasticism.  Absent Grid  The show plays down the more dubious sources of Mondrian’s
art. Otherwise, it follows his development -- from the Cubist
period to the late, less dogmatic New York paintings, which
dispensed with the black grid.  When Mondrian arrived in the U.S. from war-torn Europe, he
was a famous man -- thanks to the 1936  MoMA  survey “Cubism and
Abstract Art,” which included nine of his canvases.  That was quite a change, compared with the lean years in
Paris where he had lived again from 1919 to 1938: His austere
Neo-Plasticism proved to be virtually unsalable. To make ends
meet, he had to produce tons of harmless watercolors with
flowers on the side.  His Paris studio on Rue du Depart near the Gare
Montparnasse has been lovingly reconstructed from photographs --
“a poem of right angles,” as the architect  Le Corbusier , who
shared Mondrian’s taste, called it. It doesn’t exude what I
would describe as creature comfort. Friends compared it to a
“hermit’s cave.”  The same applies to the furniture and the houses inspired
by De Stijl of which there are several models in the show: You
need the self-denial of a monk to enjoy such clinical purity.  “Mondrian/De Stijl” runs through March 21, 2011, at the
Pompidou Center, Paris. Information:
 http://www.centrepompidou.fr  or +33-1-4478-1233.  ( Jorg von Uthmann  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Jorg von Uthmann  in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at  mbeech@bloomberg.net . 