-- Hong Kong Securities Regulator CEO Wheatley Leaves After Six Years in Job
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o   a n d   M a r k   L e e
-- 2010-12-08T20:21:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/hong-kong-sfc-says-ceo-wheatley-to-leave-next-year-update1-.html
Hong Kong’s  Securities and Futures
Commission  is seeking a new chief executive officer as  Martin Wheatley  ends a six-year tenure marked by a crackdown on market
misconduct and the global financial crisis.  Wheatley, 51, who joined the regulator in 2005 and became
CEO the following year, will leave in June to return to the
U.K., he told a news conference in Hong Kong yesterday. His
departure is a “personal decision,” Wheatley said.  Under Wheatley, the SFC secured Hong Kong’s  first jail
sentence for insider trading , won a court battle against
billionaire  Richard Li ’s PCCW Ltd., and strengthened investor
protections amid controversy over the mis-selling of notes
linked to bankrupt Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  “Next time they should cast a global net and find someone
who has broader knowledge of financial services” said  David Webb , a shareholder activist and former non-executive director
of Hong Kong’s stock exchange. “Perhaps one of his weaknesses
is that he was learning as he went along.”  Webb said Wheatley often took the path of least resistance.
Under Wheatley, the regulator tried to mitigate perceived risks
to investors from  United Co. Rusal  by “prohibiting the company
from conducting a public-offer tranche and imposing an
artificially high board lot size,” when it could have rejected
the listing outright, Webb said.  European Job  Wheatley is leaving three months before his contract
expires in September to take a job at a European securities
regulator, Hong Kong’s Standard newspaper said today, citing
unidentified people.  Stephen Birkett , a Hong Kong-based partner at law firm
Morrison & Foerster LLP, who worked in the corporate finance
division of the SFC between 2005 and 2008, said: “Making this
announcement six months ahead of his departure achieves the dual
purpose of giving the organization time to plan for the
successor and lets the market know he’s available next June.”  Wheatley, at the news conference, declined to speculate on
who his successor will be, and said he hoped to have rule
changes on  credit-rating companies  and additional reporting
requirements in place before his departure.  Other changes, including providing legal backing for
requiring the disclosure of price sensitive information, won’t
be completed during his time, Wheatley said.  “I would certainly make as much progress as I can before I
depart, but those policies go on, those projects go on,”
Wheatley said. “Regulatory structures are always a work in
progress.”  Legal Victories  The SFC in 2009 went to court and succeeding in blocking
the attempt by Li, a son of Hong Kong’s richest man  Li Ka-shing ,
to take PCCW private, saying a shareholder vote had been
manipulated. The SFC also secured Hong Kong’s first jail
sentences for insider trading in 2009.  “It is essential to have someone who upholds laws without
fear or favor,” said lawmaker  James To . “Hong Kong needs
people like Mr. Wheatley, who was not affected by the influences
of tycoons or large corporate firms.”  In response to a public outcry over $1.8 billion of Lehman-
linked structured products that became worthless with the demise
of the bank, the regulator brokered a deal along with the Hong
Kong Monetary Authority in which 16 banks agreed to buy back the
products, called “minibonds,” from investors.  “He has proved to have a steady hand on the Hong Kong
regulatory tiller during his term here,” said  Alan Ewins , Allen
& Overy LLP’s Asia Pacific regulatory group head. Reconciling
global regulatory developments, regional market competition and
local issues is a concern for Wheatley’s successor, he said.  Loss to SFC  K.C. Chan, Hong Kong’s acting financial secretary, called
Wheatley’s departure “a loss to the SFC,” and said he had led
the government agency in strengthening the regulatory framework
after the 2008 international financial crisis. Chan’s comments
were distributed in a Hong Kong government news release.  Wheatley was deputy director of the London Stock Exchange
from 2001 to 2004.  Wheatley’s replacement will take over securities regulation
of a city integrating more closely with mainland China. Chinese
companies accounted for 46 percent of the HK$20.64 trillion
($2.66 trillion) capitalization of the Hong Kong stock
exchange’s main board as of the end of October, up from 16
percent in 1997, according to exchange data.  Hong Kong is also developing itself into an offshore center
for trade in yuan currency and bonds. Deposits of the Chinese
currency in Hong Kong jumped 45 percent in October to a record
217 billion yuan, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority  said  Nov. 30.  China connections would be “good” for Wheatley’s
replacement, said  Pauline Dan , Hong Kong-based chief investment
officer at Samsung Investment Trust, which oversees about $72.1
billion in assets.  “What’s most important is to maintain a fair and open
environment for Hong Kong’s market to continue to develop as an
international financial center,” Dan said. “The biggest issue
is transparency and regulation. There’s still room for
improvement.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Debra Mao  in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Dirk Beveridge at 
 dbeveridge1@bloomberg.net  