-- Hong Kong Air Expects to `Cordially' Solve Legal Dispute With Plane Lessor
-- B y   W i n g - G a r   C h e n g
-- 2010-12-08T09:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/hong-kong-air-to-meet-with-team-cignus-to-solve-leasing-dispute.html
Hong Kong Airlines Ltd. , part of the
city’s second-largest carrier group, said it will meet Team
Cignus Ltd. today to resolve an aircraft lease contract dispute.  “We expect to resolve this cordially,” President  Yang Jiang Hong  said today in Hong Kong. The airline is currently
seeking legal advice with a view to resolve the matter as soon
as is practicable.  Team Cignus filed a petition on Dec. 6 to the Hong Kong
High Court seeking to liquidate Hong Kong Air to recover payment
for an airplane lease, according to a court cause list, which
didn’t provide details. Team Cignus is an Ireland-registered
unit of Tokyo-based  NEC Capital Solutions Ltd.   Team Cignus was owed $1.55 million as of March 31 after it
leased an aircraft to  Hainan Airlines Co. , part-owned by Hong
Kong Air parent HNA Group, the  South China Morning Post  reported
today. Hainan Airlines then subleased the aircraft to Hong Kong
Air, the newspaper said, citing the leasing company.  “As a sub-lessee Hong Kong Airlines has had no direct
contractual relationship with Team Cignus,” the airline said
today in an e-mailed statement. The airline “is financially
sound in every aspect of its operations,” according to the
statement.  NEC Capital Solutions declined to comment because the case
is at court, it said by e-mail. The company also didn’t
immediately provide contact information by phone for Team Cignus
in Ireland.  Hong Kong Air, which is part-owned by the government of
southern China’s Hainan province, has said it expects to break
even or post a small profit this year. Sales in 2010 may rise by
30 percent to 40 percent, according to the company.  Hong Kong Air and affiliate Hong Kong Express Airways Ltd.
operate a combined 17 aircraft, according to the company’s
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  