-- Online Retailer China Dangdang Raises $272 Million
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2010-12-08T01:46:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/online-retailer-china-dangdang-raises-272-million-in-u-s-initial-offer.html
E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. , the
nation’s largest online book retailer, raised $272 million in
its U.S. initial public offering, 23 percent more than it
originally sought.  China Dangdang sold 17 million American depositary receipts
at $16 each after offering them for $13 to $15 apiece, according
to a  filing  with the Securities and Exchange Commission and data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Beijing-based company increased the
price range from $11 to $13 yesterday. It starts trading on the
New York Stock Exchange tomorrow under the ticker DANG.  The online retailer was the first of five Chinese IPOs
scheduled in the U.S. this week. Beijing-based  Youku.com Inc. ,
China’s biggest online video company, is also set to offer
shares today. The sales this week would bring the number of
Chinese IPOs in New York to 39 this year, surpassing the 37 in
2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show. China, home to more than
400 million Internet users, may expand four times as fast as the
U.S. next year, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Credit Suisse Group AG  in Zurich and Morgan Stanley of New
York led the offering for China Dangdang.  The four Chinese Internet companies that completed U.S.
IPOs this year surged an average of 57 percent in their first
day of trading, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ChinaCache
International Holdings Ltd. , a Beijing-based provider of content
for business websites, posted the biggest first-day rally on
U.S. exchanges in three years, jumping 95 percent on Oct. 1.  Relative Value  The original midpoint IPO price of $12 valued China
Dangdang at 48 times annual earnings, based on third-quarter
results, data compiled by Marina del Rey, California-based
IPOdesktop.com show. That’s 64 percent higher than the median of
29.2 estimated profit for 11 U.S.-traded Internet retailers,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Seattle-based  Amazon.com Inc. ,
the biggest online merchant, trades at 39 times profit.  China Dangdang, which operates the  dangdang.com  website,
increased sales by 56 percent in the first nine months of 2010
from the same period a year ago, its prospectus said. The
company plans to use proceeds to broaden its product categories
and expand its order fulfillment capabilities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 