-- OPEC Will Maintain Production Quotas as Crude Exceeds $90: Energy Markets
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2010-12-08T16:21:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/opec-to-maintain-production-quotas-as-crude-exceeds-90-energy-markets.html
Oil’s rally to a more-than-two-year
high is unlikely to coax OPEC into raising production quotas at
this week’s meeting in Ecuador, as member nations consider the
global recovery strong enough to withstand price gains.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which
accounts for 40 percent of global supply, will maintain the
limits set in 2008 when representatives gather in Quito on Dec.
11, according to all but one of 39 analysts and traders in a
Bloomberg News survey. Ministers from Angola, Venezuela and
Libya say the group will probably repeat its  24.845  million-
barrel-a-day target.  New York crude futures climbed above $90 a barrel for the
first time in 26 months yesterday, exceeding the $70-to-$90
range described by Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  as
“comfortable.” Iran, Venezuela and Libya said this month they
would accept prices as high as $100, while OPEC Secretary-
General  Abdalla El-Badri  said the group won’t necessarily boost
production unless there’s a need for more oil.  “I don’t think there’s a magic number that causes them to
take action,” said  Mike Wittner , head of oil market research at
Societe Generale SA in New York. “As long as the economy seems
OK, as long oil demand seems healthy, what they consider to be
an acceptable range will move upward as prices move up.”  Two-Year High  Futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange advanced more
than 10 percent this year, trading at $888.03 a barrel as of
11:13 a.m. local time, after rising to $90.76 yesterday, the
highest level since Oct. 8, 2008. Prices will return to $100 a
barrel for the first time in two years during 2011, according to
strategists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan Stanley,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  OPEC  hasn’t altered quotas at any of its six meetings since
December 2008, when the group announced record supply cuts that
have left the 12-member organization with about 6 million
barrels a day of spare capacity, almost three times the daily
output of Nigeria alone.  While oil consumption in China, the world’s biggest energy
user, will increase by 9.8 percent this year, demand in North
America will rise 2.1 percent, according to the Paris-based
International Energy Agency. It will decline 0.9 percent in
Europe’s most advanced economies, the IEA said.  Falling Stockpiles  “Fundamentally there’s no reason for OPEC to release more
barrels,” said  Johannes Benigni , chief executive officer of JBC
Energy GmbH, a Vienna-based research consultant. “Surplus
inventories are declining, but it’s not the strength of the
physical market that’s causing oil to move to $90. This is more
a function of the state of the economy and the financial
markets.”  U.S. crude  stockpiles  have fallen by about 8.5 million
barrels, or 2.3 percent, to 359.69 million barrels in the past
month, according to Energy Department data. They peaked this
year at 368.156 million barrels on Oct. 29 and are still 10
percent above their norm for the time of year, the data show.  OPEC abandoned a formal price target centered around $25 a
barrel in early 2005. Since late 2008, most members have
publicly backed Saudi Arabian  King Abdullah ’s stance that $75 is
a “fair price” for consumers and producers.  Al-Naimi said on Nov. 1 that crude between $70 and $90 a
barrel was a “very comfortable zone,” raising the unofficial
target from a previous range of $70 to $80 amid concern the
weakening U.S. currency may hurt the value of members’ dollar-
denominated oil revenue.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the currency against those
of six major U.S. trading partners, dropped more than 7 percent
from September through October. The Energy Department in
Washington forecasts OPEC’s net oil export revenue will be $748
billion this year.  Quota Freeze  “The countries of OPEC will say it will be jeopardizing
the entire effort to get the world economy to recover” by
changing the quota, former OPEC Secetary-General  Rene Ortiz  said
in an interview. “I’m sure the decision will be, let’s
freeze.”  Instead of changing quotas, OPEC is likely to focus on
efforts to conform with production ceilings, according to  Shokri Ghanem , chairman of Libya’s National Oil Corp. All 11 members
that have limits still exceed them.  Adherence to quotas has faltered as oil demand recovered
after the 2008 economic crisis, encouraging members to exceed
their individual allocations. Compliance fell to 56 percent last
month, from a peak of 89 percent in March 2009, according to
monthly Bloomberg surveys of producers and analysts.  “The ministers could bring up the issue of cheating, but
to what purpose?” said  Peter Beutel , president of Cameron
Hanover Inc., a trading-advisory company in New Canaan,
Connecticut. “Why fix what clearly isn’t broken from their
perspective? They are making good money and they see no genuine
negative impact on consumption, although we know there is
some.”  OPEC’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. Iraq is exempt from the quota system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on 
 sev@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  