-- Morgan Stanley Leads $42 Million Fee on Treasury Citigroup Deal
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2010-12-08T14:39:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/morgan-stanley-underwriting-team-to-get-42-million-from-citigroup-sale.html
Morgan Stanley and other underwriters
on the Treasury Department’s sale of 2.4 billion Citigroup Inc.
shares will collect $42.3 million of fees from the U.S. bank.  Morgan Stanley as lead manager handled 87 percent of the
stock sales, while a team of 13 co-managers including Bank of
America Merrill Lynch, UBS AG and Wells Fargo & Co. handled the
rest, according to a regulatory filing by New York-based
Citigroup today.   “We were pleased with Morgan Stanley and the role they
played,”  David Miller , chief investment officer of the
Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program, said yesterday in an
interview. The Treasury booked a $6.85 billion profit on its
share sales.  Citigroup, whose $45 billion bailout in 2008 was the
biggest among U.S. banks, has had to shower competitors with
investment-banking fees this year as the government sold its
stakes and kept Citigroup out of the fee pool to steer clear of
conflicts of interest. In October, Citigroup had to pay rival
firms $55.7 million for underwriting the Treasury’s sale of $2.2
billion of trust-preferred securities.  This week’s sale, which raised $10.5 billion for the
Treasury, was the biggest U.S. offering of the year for a stock
already trading, boosting Morgan Stanley’s ranking among
underwriters while eroding Citigroup’s market share, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The biggest U.S. stock sale of
the year was General Motors Co.’s $18.1 billion initial public
offering in November, where Morgan Stanley and Citigroup were
among nine lead managers.  Government’s Stake  Morgan Stanley spokesman  Mark Lake  declined to comment, as
did Citigroup spokesman  Jon Diat .  The Treasury designated Morgan Stanley in March to oversee
the sale of its 7.7 billion Citigroup shares, which the
government received from converting $25 billion of bailout money
into stock at $3.25 a share.  Under a  fee schedule  disclosed at the time, Morgan Stanley
was eligible for a fee of 0.3 cents a share for stock sold in
the open market through automatic trading programs, and 1.75
cents a share for sales through other means.  From April through Dec. 6, Morgan Stanley sold 5.3 billion
shares at the market at an average price of $4.05, according to
a Treasury  statement . The remaining shares were priced in
yesterday’s underwritten offering at $4.35.  Most of the fees for the trust-preferred offering in
October went to Bank of America,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , Morgan
Stanley, UBS and Wells Fargo, according to a regulatory filing
at the time. Almost 50 other banks, including Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and Barclays Bank Plc, also were
involved, the filing shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bradley Keoun  in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  