-- Morgan Stanley Gets Approval for CICC Stake Sale, With $700 Million Gain
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2010-12-08T14:06:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/morgan-stanley-gets-regulatory-approvals-for-cicc-stake-sale.html
Morgan Stanley , the sixth-largest
U.S. bank by assets,  said it has received all required
regulatory approvals for the sale of its 34.3 percent holding in
 China International Capital Corp. , clearing the way for the
stake’s sale to four investors.  Morgan Stanley expects to realize a pretax gain of about
$700 million upon consummation of the transaction, which is
expected to close before the end of 2010, the New York-based
bank said today in a statement.  Morgan Stanley  is selling the
stake to  Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. , TPG Capital, Great
Eastern Holdings Ltd. and a Singaporean sovereign wealth fund.  The sale will end  Morgan Stanley ’s 15-year involvement in
CICC, the first Sino-foreign investment bank and the top-ranked
underwriter of share sales in the country. The U.S. firm, which
ceded management control of CICC a decade ago, plans to form a
partnership with Shenzhen-based China Fortune Securities Co.  “Given the impressive economic and market developments and
business opportunities, China remains a critical part of Morgan
Stanley’s global strategy,” Morgan Stanley Chief Executive
Officer  James Gorman  said in the statement. “Our focus now is
to further expand our domestic market platform and
capabilities.”  Morgan Stanley plans to sell stakes of about 10 percent
each to TPG and  KKR , and about a 5 percent stake to Singapore’s
Great Eastern, the insurer controlled by Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corp., four people with direct knowledge of the deal said
earlier this month. Government of Singapore Investment Corp.
will buy the remainder, the people said. The 34.3 percent stake
is valued at about $1 billion, two of the people said.  ‘Pivotal Role’  “CICC has played a pivotal role in the development of
China’s financial industry,” the investors said in a separate
joint statement. “As China takes an ever more prominent
position in the world’s financial markets, CICC has the
potential to become a leading financial institution
internationally.”  Morgan Stanley’s application for a planned joint venture
with China Fortune Securities Co. was accepted by the China
Securities Regulatory Commission on Nov. 30, according to a
filing on the watchdog’s website. The CSRC said it gave its
first feedback on the application on Dec. 2, and hasn’t set a
decision date.  It’s Morgan Stanley’s second attempt to dispose of the
holding in CICC. Talks with leveraged-buyout firms fell apart in
early 2008 on disagreements about price, according to a South
China Morning Post report at the time.  Morgan Stanley invested $35 million in CICC when it was
established in 1995. It ceded management control in 2000 and
CICC is now run by  Levin Zhu , the son of former Chinese Premier
 Zhu Rongji . Singapore’s GIC also bought CICC shares in 1995 and
has been one of the founding shareholders, according to CICC’s
website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael J. Moore  in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net 
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  