-- Osborne Says BOE Governor King Is Not `Partisan' in Views on Budget Policy
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2010-12-08T11:09:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/osborne-says-boe-governor-king-is-not-partisan-in-views-on-budget-policy.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said  Mervyn King  should be free to express his views on
fiscal policy, rejecting criticism that the Bank of England
governor is interfering in political decision-making.  “I don’t believe he has been drawn into matters
political,” Osborne told the House of Commons Treasury
Committee in London today. “The idea that he is somehow
partisan is wrong. I’ve never asked him to say something or
asked him not to. We want Bank of England governors who are
independent and independent-minded.”  King’s role in Britain’s political system has been in the
spotlight over the past two weeks. Bank of England policy maker
 Adam Posen  said Nov. 25 he was “uncomfortable” with the bank’s
support for the Conservative-led government’s deficit-reduction
plans. Former Chancellor  Alistair Darling  has cautioned the bank
against getting too close to any political party, while a former
policy maker,  David Blanchflower , called on King to quit.  WikiLeaks.org last week published a cable by the U.S.
ambassador citing the central bank chief’s concerns before the
May 6 election that Osborne and Conservative Party leader  David Cameron , now prime minister, lacked experience.  U.S. Ambassador  Louis Susman  wrote to Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  citing a Feb. 16 meeting with the governor, the
Guardian newspaper cited Susman’s confidential diplomatic cable
as saying. During the discussions King, 62, “opined that party
leader David Cameron and Shadow Chancellor George Osborne have
not fully grasped the pressures they will face from different
groups when attempting to cut spending.”  ‘Credible’ Plan  Before the election, King lobbied publicly for a
“credible” plan to curb the U.K.’s  biggest peacetime deficit .
On May 12, after Cameron’s Conservatives formed their coalition
with the Liberal Democrats, the governor said he was “very
pleased” with the new government’s budget-cutting proposals.  Osborne played down King’s involvement in his evidence to
the Treasury Committee today, saying that the governor “wasn’t
telling me anything in private that he wasn’t saying in public”
before the election and during the coalition negotiations.  Posen told the same committee last month he was
uncomfortable with the central bank’s backing of government
spending cuts in its Inflation Report in May. He said the
support was “too political, too much of a statement.”  Osborne said today Posen’s comments on King were “a
demonstration there are different views” on the bank’s Monetary
Policy Committee. “It’s perfectly sensible you have a proper
debate.”  ‘Very Strength’  “The bank has to be careful at all times that not only
it’s independent but that it is seen to be independent,”
Darling, who was Osborne’s immediate predecessor under Labour
Prime Minister  Gordon Brown , said in a Bloomberg Television
interview yesterday. “The very strength of the Bank of England
is its independence from the party political process.”  Brown’s government reappointed King as head of the central
bank in 2008.  Blanchflower, who is a columnist for Bloomberg News, said
in a Bloomberg Television interview last week that King’s
statements involved “the compromise of the independence of Bank
of England.”  The central bank won autonomy in setting monetary policy in
1997. The bank’s authority has become entangled with government
funding plans since policy makers began a program in March last
year to buy gilts to stoke economic recovery.  Osborne told the committee his deficit-reduction program
was aimed at trying to give the bank “maximum flexibility” to
stimulate growth.  “I’m very clear that monetary policy is the principal tool
for stimulating demand,” the chancellor said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
 Eddie Buckle  in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  