-- Treasuries Slide on Tax-Cut Prospects; Stocks Advance, Copper Hits Record
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-12-08T23:52:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/most-asian-stocks-rise-won-drops-on-north-korea-shelling-treasuries-fall.html
Treasuries slid, sending the 10-year
yield to a six-month high, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
closed at the highest level since 2008 amid speculation the
potential extension of U.S. tax cuts will spur growth. Copper
rose to a record on signs the global recovery will stoke demand.  Treasury 10-year yields climbed 15 basis points to 3.27
percent after jumping 21 points yesterday, the most in 18 months.
The Dollar Index added 0.2 percent for a third straight increase.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4 percent, extending
gains after American International Group Inc. struck a deal to
repay its Federal Reserve credit line. Oil slid from a 26-month
high. After the U.S. close, S&P 500 futures rose 0.3 percent at
6:45 p.m. in New York and New Zealand’s dollar weakened.  Global bond markets extended a three-month decline after
President  Barack Obama  agreed to extend Bush-era tax cuts,
spurring speculation the U.S. will have to fund a larger deficit.
The compromise may add as much as half a percentage point to
economic growth next year, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
China said it will post consumer-price data on Dec. 11, two days
earlier than planned, fanning speculation interest rates may be
increased.  “The tax-cut extension is a positive for the economy,”
said  Peter Jankovskis , who helps manage $2.2 billion as co-chief
investment officer at Oakbrook Investments LLC in Lisle,
Illinois. “Investors will be focused on Obama’s battle for his
own party to push through that compromise,” he said. “There’s
concern about China raising rates further. However, the fact
that has been advertised for months got investors used to that
idea.”  Ten Year Auction  The two-year  Treasury yield  increased ten basis points to
0.63 percent, the highest since July. The 30-year yield
increased nine basis points to 4.46 percent.  At today’s 10-year note auction, the securities drew a
yield of 3.340 percent, compared with the average forecast of
3.307 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 7 primary dealers.
The sale was a reopening of the Nov. 9 auction, which produced a
yield of 2.636 percent.  The Fed bought $1.63 billion of inflation-protected
securities maturing from July 2012 to February 2040 today as
part of the asset-purchase program known as quantitative easing,
aimed at lowering borrowing costs and stimulating the economy.  Costs to protect against a U.S. corporate default fell for
a sixth day. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index,
which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or
to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 1.6 basis points to
a mid-price of 88.3 basis points, according to index
administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Bond Spreads  The extra yield investors demand to hold Irish 10-year
bonds instead of benchmark German bunds  narrowed  six basis
points to 502 basis points. Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan 
won parliamentary backing in the first votes on his 6 billion-
euro ($8 billion) austerity budget.  The Dollar Index , which tracks the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, rose to 80.024 as it climbed for a third day.
The New Zealand dollar declined against 15 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts and extended a three-day slump against the U.S.
currency after Reserve Bank Governor  Alan Bollard  kept the
benchmark rate unchanged at 3 percent and said it was “prudent”
to keep the official rates low until the recovery strengthens
and price pressures increase.  Financial stocks led  gains  in the 10 main S&P 500 industry
groups, rising 1.8 percent collectively.  Wells Fargo & Co. ,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp. climbed at least
2.6 percent. Regions Financial Corp., Zions Bancorp and Fifth
Third Bancorp rose at least 5.3 percent to help lead regional
lenders higher.  Lending Margins  The rising yields on U.S. Treasury securities maturing in
10 years or more indicated that lending will become more
profitable,  Brian Klock , an analyst at Keefe Bruyette & Woods
Inc. in New York, said in an e-mail.  Trading in AIG was halted as the insurer announced plans to
use proceeds from the sales of two non-U.S. life insurance units
to repay the Fed, the New York-based company said today in a
regulatory filing announcing the agreement with regulators
including the U.S. Treasury Department. AIG owed about $21
billion last week on the line, which was created in 2008 to save  Youku.com Inc. surged 161 percent in the biggest gain for a
U.S. initial public offering in five years and E-Commerce China
Dangdang Inc. almost doubled in its debut, the latest sign of
booming demand for Chinese Internet companies.  Europe, Asian Shares  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  advanced for a third day, rising
0.4 percent to close at its highest since September 2008. Smith
& Nephew Plc, Europe’s largest maker of shoulder and knee
implants, rose 9.1 percent after Goldman Sachs recommended
buying the stock.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  fell 1 percent, the most in
almost two weeks. Cnooc Ltd., China’s biggest offshore oil
producer, declined 2.4 percent in Hong Kong. Sumco Corp., a
Japanese maker of silicon wafers for semiconductors, slumped 9.6
percent in Tokyo after forecasting a wider full-year net loss.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  fell 1.4 percent, its
biggest decline since Nov. 26. The measure climbed 5.1 percent
in the previous five days. The  Shanghai Composite Index  dropped
1 percent. China’s statistics bureau is bringing forward the
release of economic data including retail sales figures by two
days as investors speculated the central bank is preparing to
raise borrowing costs.  Korean Tensions  South Korea’s  Kospi Index  retreated 0.4 percent after North
Korea fired artillery shells into its own waters near the
disputed western border with South Korea today, according to a
government official in Seoul. The won dropped against 15 of 16
major counterparts, with the Mexican peso and British pound
strengthening at least 1.6 percent.  Copper futures for delivery in March rose 5.1 cents, or 1.3
percent, to settle at $4.1005 a pound on the Comex in New York,
the highest ever. Crude oil decreased 0.5 percent to settle at
$88.28 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  The decline in oil came after the U.S. Energy Department
said gasoline supplies rose 3.81 million barrels to 214 million
last week. They were forecast to fall 300,000 barrels, a
Bloomberg News survey showed. Supplies of distillate fuels,
including heating oil and diesel, climbed 2.15 million barrels.  Gold and silver futures tumbled the most in three weeks as
the dollar climbed, eroding the appeal of precious metals as an
alternative asset. Gold had touched a record yesterday and
silver had climbed to the highest since 1980.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at   mregan12@bloomberg.net  