-- Louisiana Judge Is Removed From Bench for Corruption in Rare Senate Action
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2010-12-08T16:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/louisiana-judge-is-removed-from-bench-for-corruption-in-rare-senate-action.html
The U.S. Senate voted to convict a
federal judge accused of corruption and remove him from the
bench, the first time that has happened in 21 years and only the
eighth time in history.  Judge G.  Thomas Porteous  of New Orleans was charged with
taking cash and bribes from lawyers and bail bondsmen with cases
before his court, making false statements in declaring personal
bankruptcy and lying to the Senate during his confirmation. At
least two-thirds of the Senate voted guilty on each of the four
charges, the threshold needed for a conviction.  The House earlier this year approved four articles of
impeachment against Porteous, 63. It found that he had a
gambling problem and was soliciting cash during his time as a
federal judge and earlier while serving on a state court.  Before today’s votes, the Senate had conducted formal
removal proceedings for an impeached federal official  just 19
times , and only seven times convicted a judge, according to the
Senate Historical Office.  The last federal judge to be convicted was  Walter Nixon  of
Mississippi, who was nominated by President  Lyndon Johnson . He
was removed from office after the Senate convicted him in 1989
on charges of committing perjury before a grand jury.  Porteous’s lawyer in the impeachment proceedings,  Jonathan Turley , argued that the accusations against him are either
false, based on errors or weren’t serious enough to be
considered “high crimes and misdemeanors.” Turley said
Porteous already had pledged to retire and not to return to the
bench.  Before Appointment  Turley also said some of the charges should be dismissed
because they involve conduct that happened before Porteous
became a federal judge. Porteous, appointed by President  Bill Clinton , was confirmed by the Senate in 1994.  “In the history of this republic, no one has ever been
removed from office on the basis of pre-federal conduct,”
Turley said.  Representative  Adam Schiff , a California Democrat and a
House impeachment manager, said there are adequate precedents
for considering conduct predating appointment to the federal
bench. The charges don’t violate the Constitution, he said, and
failing to include them would make a federal judgeship a “safe
harbor” from prior conduct.  Porteous was suspended for two years from his court service
in 2008 by a panel of judges that also examined many of the
allegations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  