-- House Democrats Plan to Freeze Most Agencies' Budgets, Cut Defense Request
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2010-12-08T18:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/house-democrats-plan-to-freeze-most-government-agencies-budgets.html
House Democrats plan to vote today to
freeze most of the federal government’s budget as part of a
year-end  bill  to complete lawmakers’ unfinished appropriations.  The $1.1 trillion measure would cut $46 billion, or about 4
percent, from President  Barack Obama ’s request for the fiscal
year that began Oct. 1. It would cut the administration’s
defense spending request by $18 billion, freeze the pay of non-
military government employees and provide $159 billion for the
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.  The proposal also includes a food safety bill that cleared
the Senate last month before being tripped up by constitutional
concerns that, because it included revenue-raising measures, it
must originate in the House.  The government is currently funded by a stopgap measure,
expiring Dec. 18, after Democrats failed to pass a budget or any
of the 12 annual appropriations bills establishing individual
agency budgets.  House Republicans have called for a shorter-term funding
bill that would make it easier for them to cut spending when
they take control of the House in January. Senate Democrats,
meanwhile, are seeking Republican votes to substitute an
“omnibus” measure spending about $20 billion more, including
thousands of the pet projects known as earmarks.  The House plan would boost defense spending by $4.9
billion, to $513 billion, with most of the increase going to a
1.4 percent pay raise for military personnel and higher agency
health-care costs. The administration had requested a $23
billion budget increase.  Pell Grants  The House bill would also provide an additional $5.7
billion for Pell college tuition grants, which go to low-income
families, as well as $550 million for the Education Department’s
“Race to the Top” program aimed at boosting student
achievement.  House Appropriations Committee Chairman  David Obey , a
Wisconsin Democrat, said the plan makes “adjustments that just
might ease the financial desperation facing so many families
today who cannot afford to send their kids to college, to find
decent child care or to provide adequate medical attention for
their needs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  