-- House Approves $1.1 Trillion Measure to Freeze Spending on U.S. Programs
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2010-12-08T23:34:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/house-approves-1-1-trillion-measure-to-freeze-spending-on-u-s-programs.html
The U.S. House approved a $1.1
trillion  measure  that would freeze spending on most government
programs as lawmakers pushed to complete work on a stack of
unfinished appropriations bills.  The bill, approved 212-206 today, would cut billions from
President  Barack Obama ’s defense budget request, freeze the pay
of non-military government employees and give the Interior
Department more time to consider potential environmental effects
of proposed oil and gas drilling permits. It also includes $159
billion for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.  The measure would cut $46 billion, or about 4 percent, from
the White House’s budget request for the fiscal year that began
Oct. 1. It includes an unrelated food-safety measure that
cleared the Senate last month before being tripped up by
constitutional concerns that, because it includes revenue
provisions, it must originate in the House.  House Appropriations Committee Chairman  David Obey , a
Wisconsin Democrat, said the bill would make “adjustments that
just might ease the financial desperation facing so many
families today.”  The government is currently funded by a stopgap measure
that expires Dec. 18 after Democrats failed to pass a budget or
any of the 12 annual appropriations bills setting spending
levels for individual programs.  House Republicans have called for a short-term funding bill
that would make it easier for them to begin cutting spending
when they take control of the House in January. Republicans
promised to roll back domestic “discretionary” spending to
2008 levels, which would mean a $100 billion cut.  ‘Clearest Signal’  “This would be the clearest signal the House could send to
the American people that we got the message in November and are
deadly serious about cutting spending,” said Representative
 Jerry Lewis  of California, the top Republican on the
Appropriations panel.  Senate Democrats, meanwhile, are seeking Republican votes
to substitute an “omnibus” measure spending about $20 billion
that would include thousands of pet projects known as earmarks.  The House bill would give the Interior Department up to 90
days, from the current 30 days, to examine potential safety and
environment effects of proposed oil and gas drilling permits.
That drew complaints from Senators  Mary Landrieu , a Louisiana
Democrat, and Alaska Republican  Lisa Murkowski , who said it
would hurt companies still suffering from a drilling moratorium
imposed after this year’s BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of
Mexico.  ‘Adding More Time’  “Adding more time to the clock will only serve to further
delay a process that needs to be accelerated,” Landrieu and
Murkowski said in a letter.  The House bill would boost the Pentagon’s budget by $4.9
billion, to $513 billion, with most of the increase going to a
1.4 percent pay raise for military personnel and higher agency
health-care costs. The administration wanted a $23 billion
increase.  The bill would provide a $5.7 billion increase for the Pell
college tuition grant program, which go to students from low-
income families, as well as $550 million for the Education
Department’s “Race to the Top” program designed to boost
student achievement. The Secret Service would get an additional
$14 million to prepare for the 2012 presidential campaign.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  