-- Bachus Selected by Republicans as Wall Street Overseer
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2010-12-08T18:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/house-s-bachus-wins-key-vote-in-bid-to-be-wall-street-overseer.html
U.S. Representative  Spencer Bachus 
has been selected by House Republicans to become chairman of the
House Financial Services Committee when his party takes power
next month.  The Alabama lawmaker, who has been the panel’s top minority
member since 2007, was chosen during a closed-door conference
meeting in Washington today. He will replace Representative
 Barney Frank , the Massachusetts Democrat who led the committee
during the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression and
spearheaded the regulatory overhaul that bears his name.  Bachus, 62, is aligned with Republicans pushing for free
markets and less-intrusive regulation. From the beginning of
debate over what became the Dodd-Frank law, he led opposition to
measures such as resolution authority to wind-down failing
firms, calling them “back-door bailouts.” He also fought
against the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and questioned
the legality of President  Barack Obama ’s appointment of Harvard
Law School Professor  Elizabeth Warren  to an advisory position.  “We are committed to going title by title through the
2,300 page Dodd-Frank Act to correct, replace or repeal the job-
killing provisions that unnecessarily punish small businesses
and community banks that did nothing to cause the financial
crisis,” Bachus said today in a statement.  ‘Oversight Role’  Bachus said he plans to “reinvigorate the committee’s
oversight role,” aligning with fellow Republicans including
Representative  Darrell Issa  of California, the incoming chairman
of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, who have
pledged to keep watch on Obama administration initiatives.  Bachus received the endorsement of the Republican Steering
Committee in a closed-door vote yesterday, helping clear the way
to his selection by the full group of House Republicans. The
slate chosen by the panel -- made up of House leaders, incoming
committee chairmen and members representing different parts of
the country -- is traditionally accepted by the conference.  “Members of our new majority have made a pledge to America
to focus on the American people’s priorities -- helping small
businesses create jobs, cutting spending, repealing the job-
killing health care law, protecting life and reforming the way
Congress works,” Representative  John Boehner  of Ohio, the
incoming House speaker, said yesterday. The new chairmen are
“committed to advancing these priorities,” he said.  Representative  Ed Royce  of California mounted a challenge
to Bachus’s bid to lead the committee that oversees Wall Street,
citing his own leadership in efforts to rein in Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac before losses linked to subprime mortgages forced
the government-backed firms into U.S. conservatorship. Royce and
Bachus made presentations to the steering panel last week.  ‘Many Challenges’  “I would like to congratulate Congressman Spencer Bachus
on his selection as chairman of the Financial Services
Committee,” Royce said yesterday in a statement. “During this
critical time in our capital markets and our economy, I am
committed to working with the chairman and members of the
committee to address the many challenges we face.”  Bachus received $752,200 in the 2009-2010 election cycle
from individuals and political action committees aligned with
finance, insurance and real-estate companies, according to the
Center for Responsive Politics. Frank, who will remain the
senior Democrat on the panel, received $986,657 over that same
period.  Bachus relied on his fundraising ability and relationships
with Financial Services Committee members in the race for the
chairmanship. The top seven Republicans on the panel -- the six
ranking subcommittee members and the vice chairman -- signed a
Nov. 5 letter supporting his candidacy.  He led a Republican effort against Obama’s financial
overhaul bill that “succeeded in driving the reform debate and
denying the Democrats the political ‘win’ they so desperately
needed in the wake of other unpopular Obama administration
initiatives like health care and the stimulus,” the lawmakers
said in the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Mattingly  in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  