-- Oxford Rugby Captain Sees Win Over Cambridge as Cure for Losing Season
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-12-09T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/oxford-rugby-captain-haydon-says-win-over-cambridge-would-make-his-season.html
To Oxford University rugby captain
Nick Haydon, a doctor by profession, a victory over rival
Cambridge will be the perfect cure for his club’s season.  Haydon will lead the Dark Blues out at Twickenham Stadium
in London for today’s 129th Varsity Match against Cambridge
University. Even though Oxford has won only two of nine matches
this season, the Australian knows more than just wins and losses
are at stake.  “Winning at Twickenham leaves us with bragging rights for
the year and it doesn’t matter what happens in the rest of the
season,” the 27-year-old scrum-half said in an interview. “If
we get the big one, that’s what it’s all about.”  Cambridge holds a 61 to 53 advantage in the series that
dates back to 1872, with 14 ties. The Light Blues have won four
of the past five meetings, including a 31-27 victory last year.  Haydon trained in a hospital in Sydney before entering
Oxford’s University College last year to study for a master’s in
diagnostic imaging. He’s one of three doctors in the Oxford
starting lineup, a fact he says comes in handy at times.  “When I first arrived we played an away match and didn’t
have a doctor,” he said. “I spent the post-match stitching up
a big American prop who was playing for us last year.”  Some big names in rugby have taken part in the Varsity
Match during its 138-year history, including Wales’s  Gerald Davies , Scotland’s Gavin Hastings, Rob Andrew of England and
David Kirk of New Zealand. As evidenced by Haydon, the contest
still draws players from around the world.  One this year is Cambridge flanker Jason Kururangi, whose
father Robert played for New Zealand against Cambridge in 1978.
Jason knows all about the match’s status in the sport.  ‘Biggest Game’  “I haven’t been part of a Varsity Match before but I’ve
spoken to some old Blues that have finished playing rugby, and
especially the Kiwi guys. They say it’s the biggest game that
they’ve ever played in their life,” the 24-year-old from
Auckland, who hopes for a career in investment banking after
graduating, said in an interview. He’s studying land economy.  While university rivalries naturally bring pressure, St.
Edmund’s College student Kururangi feels most of it comes from
within as the teams strive to succeed.  “That’s what you spend all the days training out in the
rain and cold for: that’s to win,” he said. “There’s quite a
high profile in Cambridge and I’m sure the same could be said
with Oxford. It’s a big deal.”  For many of the players the game -- sponsored by brokerage
 Nomura Holdings Inc . -- will mark the apex of their rugby
careers, and Haydon wants them to enjoy the moment.  “It certainly will be a highlight for a lot of players’
rugby careers, playing at Twickenham in the Varsity Match,” he
said. “It’s a fantastic affair. We spend a whole year preparing
for this one match. It’s got a lot of tradition behind it and
it’s a very proud occasion for both universities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 