-- Pfizer Names David Simmons to Head Emerging Markets
-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 2010-12-09T21:03:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/pfizer-names-simmons-as-head-of-emerging-markets-unit-replacing-halfon.html
Pfizer Inc ., seeking to expand its
growing international business, named  David Simmons  head of
emerging markets, replacing  Jean-Michel Halfon .  Simmons, the president and general manager of the
established products business unit, will add emerging markets to
his current responsibilities,  Ray Kerins , a spokesman for
Pfizer, said yesterday in a telephone interview. Halfon, who
joined the New York-based company in 1997, announced his
retirement to Pfizer employees on Dec. 1, Kerins said.  Pfizer, the world’s biggest drugmaker, is looking for
partnerships and  acquisitions  in emerging markets and expanding
its sales force outside the U.S. to tap into rising incomes,
said  David Maris , a New York-based health-care analyst at CLSA,
a unit of Credit Agricole SA. Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Kindler , 55, resigned from the company on Dec. 5 and was
replaced by  Ian C. Read , 57.  “They know they’re behind in China, and want to do more;
they know they want to do more in Brazil,” Maris said in a
telephone interview Dec. 5, before Halfon’s retirement became
public. “Jean-Michel Halfon has done a great job building out,
especially China.”  Pfizer gained 4 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $16.76 at
4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock
declined 8.1 percent in the past 12 months.  Pfizer’s  international sales  increased 5.9 percent to $28.3
billion in 2009 from $25.3 billion in 2007, making up about 57
percent of the drugmaker’s revenue, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Emerging Markets  In the third quarter, Pfizer’s revenue from emerging
markets increased 36 percent to $2.07 billion, from $1.5 billion
in the same period a year earlier, according to company filings.  Pfizer agreed in October to pay $200 million upfront for
rights to four insulin products from Bangalore, India-based
Biocon Ltd., to expand its diabetes offerings in emerging
markets. Also in October, the company agreed to pay $240 million
for a 40 percent stake in Laboratorio Teuto Brasileiro SA to
expand generic drug offerings in Brazil.  Simmons helped design and implement the company’s strategy
for more than 500 established products in the unit that includes
medicines whose patents have expired and the company’s
Greenstone LLC division that makes generic drugs, according to
his  biography  on Pfizer’s website. Last year, he oversaw
Pfizer’s licensing of more than 100 molecules from partner
companies. Simmons has worked with international markets at
Pfizer for 12 years and spent nine years in the steel industry
before joining the drugmaker, according to the website.  Halfon ran the emerging markets unit covering more than 70
countries. He was head of Pfizer’s Canada operations from 1999
to 2007 and expanded his coverage to Latin America, Africa, and
the Middle East from 2007 to 2008 before heading up the emerging
markets business unit, according to his  Pfizer biography . Halfon
will work with Simmons during the transition and plans to retire
in the first quarter of next year, Kerins said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 