-- Poland Will Sell First Inflation Bond in Two Years
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-12-08T09:47:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/poland-to-sell-first-inflation-bonds-in-two-years-as-consumer-prices-climb.html
Poland is planning its first sale of
inflation-linked bonds in more than two years today as investors
seek protection against rising consumer prices and bet on higher
interest rates.  The government plans to raise as much as 2 billion zloty
($663.3 million) from the sale of bonds pegged to the  consumer
price index  that mature in August 2023, and floating rate notes
due in January 2021, the Finance Ministry said. The last time it
offered inflation-linked bonds for cash was on Aug. 13, 2008.  Yields on inflation-linked bonds are 281 basis points, or
2.81 percentage points, lower than fixed-rate debt, compared with
a discount of 272 basis points three weeks ago, according to
prices on Bloomberg for 12-year government securities. The gap,
known as the breakeven rate, reflects investor expectations for
inflation over the lifespan of the bonds.  Accelerating inflation is “making an impression on
investors,” said  Arkadiusz Urbanski , a Warsaw-based analyst at
Bank Pekao SA, the Polish unit of UniCredit SpA. “We are on the
cusp of a monetary tightening cycle, and with consumer prices
heading higher those bonds look attractive.”  Poland’s annual  inflation  rate may “slightly” exceed 3
percent in December, from an eight-month high of 2.8 percent
October,  Slawomir Dudek , deputy head of the statistics
department at the Finance Ministry, was quoted as saying by the
PAP newswire on Dec. 1.  Record-Low Rates  Investors are betting that policy makers will increase
interest rates from a record low over the next three months as
the economy of the European Union’s largest eastern member
 expands  at the fastest pace in two years. Traders of three-month
forward rate agreements are pricing in a 36 basis-point increase
in benchmark borrowing costs, based on the rate of 4.26 percent
compared with the three-month  Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate  of
3.90 percent.  The central bank has kept the main rate at a record low of
3.5 percent for 17 months to protect the zloty against
speculators.  Inflation-linked bonds track consumer-price gains to
compensate investors for the erosion of debt values. The bonds
rise as consumer price expectations increase, sending yields
lower. The coupons also increase in line with inflation.  “Given that rising inflation risks are a big theme for
emerging markets in the period ahead, we anticipate fairly
strong demand for the CPI-linkers, especially on the part of
international investors,” London-based  Benoit Anne , head of
global emerging-market strategy at Societe Generale SA, wrote in
a note to clients today.  ‘Better Choice’  Societe Generale predicts the price may reach between 96.50
and 96.75 at the auction, based on yesterday’s closing price.
Bank Pekao expects the price to be at least 96.  Poland has covered 96 percent of this year’s borrowing
needs through the end of November,  Piotr Marczak , head of the
Finance Ministry’s public debt department, said last month.
Today’s sale will be the last primary bond auction this year.  “The ministry is unlikely to have large borrowing needs
before the end of the year, so they want to test the market,”
said  Olaf Pietrzak , a fixed-income fund manager at Skarbiec
Investment Management in Warsaw, who helps oversee the
equivalent of $1.5 billion in assets. “In the longer term this
bond is a better choice than a regular fixed-rate bond. If
inflation jumps the market won’t be able to catch up.”  The ministry is likely to sell 800 million zloty to 1
billion zloty of the CPI-linked bonds today, he said.  While today’s auction is the first sale of inflation-linked
bonds for cash, the government exchanged a record amount of the
securities for conventional debt at its Nov. 10 auction, issuing
2.3 billion zloty of the notes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  