-- Polish Stocks to Gain 16% in 2011 as Econom Growth Accelerates, ING Says
-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 2010-12-08T13:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/polish-stocks-to-gain-16-in-2011-as-economy-speeds-up-ing-says.html
Poland’s  WIG Index  of stocks may
climb 16 percent by the end of next year as the country’s
accelerating economy helps earnings improve, ING Groep NV’s
mutual fund in Warsaw said.  The 344-stock index  is set to increase to 55,000 as
economic growth accelerates to 4.5 percent from this year’s
“close to 4 percent” pace, said Maciej Bombol, chief
investment officer at ING TFI SA, which manages the equivalent
of $3.3 billion. The index has jumped 18 percent this year,
compared with a 13 percent gain in the  MSCI Emerging Markets
Index .  “This is rather a conservative forecast,” Bombol said at
a news conference today. “There are still many uncertainties
and markets will be more volatile than this year because of the
uncertainty over the debt burden of some European countries.”  Rising stock prices and stronger economic growth next year
may prompt more companies to hold initial public offerings in
Warsaw, whose equity market is the biggest in central Europe in
terms of total market value, turnover and number of traded
companies, Bombol said.  “The IPO market will continue its strong growth, because
with the economy expanding companies will invest more and will
seek capital through share sales or debt issues,” said Bombol.  The WIG fell 0.3 percent to 47,358.19 at 2 p.m. in Warsaw.  Poland has had the most IPOs in central Europe each year
since at least 2004, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Sixty-six deals have raised a record $4.94 billion in 2010, the
largest coming from state-run insurer  PZU SA  and utility Tauron
Polska Energia SA. The Warsaw Stock Exchange’s own IPO in
October drew record demand from institutional investors, which
bid for more than 25 times the number of shares on offer.  Zloty ‘Undervalued’  The zloty, which has gained 1.5 percent against the euro in
2010, is among the most undervalued emerging-market currencies,
Bombol said. The currency should gain next year, benefiting from
continued inflows of investment and European Union funds, as
well as a possible increase in official interest rates, he said.  “We believe in the Polish zloty and its rising trend seems
clear,” said Bombol, adding that price pressures may prompt the
central bank to raise interest rates for the first time since
June 2008 as early as in the first quarter of 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  