-- Prokhorov's Polyus Advances After Agreeing to $509 Million KazakhGold Deal
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2010-12-08T10:16:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/polyus-gold-gains-to-2-1-2-year-high-on-kazakhgold-assets-sale.html
OAO Polyus Gold  rose to a 2 1/2 year
high in Moscow trading after agreeing to sell the production
assets of its  KazakhGold Group  unit to Kazakhstan’s Assaubayev
family for $509 million in cash, settling a dispute.  Polyus  advanced as much as 3.6 percent to 1,997 rubles, the
highest intraday price since May 22, 2008. It was at 1,929
rubles as of 1 p.m. local time, valuing Russia’s largest gold
producer at 367.5 billion rubles ($11.8 billion).  KazakhGold 
rose 15 percent to $4 in London.  As part of the agreement, Kazakhstan will restore approvals
for Polyus’s proposed merger with U.K.-traded KazakhGold, which
would give Polyus a primary listing in London. Billionaire owner
 Mikhail Prokhorov  is seeking access to a wider pool of investors
as he pursues plans to combine with a global competitor as early
as 2011 to create one of the world’s top three gold miners,
according to a Dec. 6 interview.  The deal is likely to boost prospects of a tie-up with a
“major gold producer,” Aton Capital analysts Dinnur Galikhanov
and  Ilya Makarov  wrote in an e-mailed report today.  In June, Polyus filed a lawsuit in London against the
Assaubayevs after buying a controlling stake in KazakhGold from
the family last year. Polyus demanded $450 million of the $600
million it paid, citing alleged misuse of funds and
misrepresentation of company data. In July, the Kazakh Industry
Ministry and competition watchdog revoked approval for the
purchase and police opened an investigation into three Polyus-
backed directors of KazakhGold, freezing its bank accounts.  The Assaubayevs today agreed to reimburse the company for
investments in the assets and guarantee repayment of
KazakhGold’s Eurobonds, Moscow-based Polyus said in a  website 
statement. Both sides will drop legal proceedings.  “The resolution of the KazakhGold situation in any shape
or form is a net positive for Polyus Gold from a sentiment
perspective,” said  Mikhail Stiskin , an analyst at Troika Dialog
in Moscow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Corcoran  at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 