-- Porsche `Shock Therapy' Spurs Improved Efficiency at Lufthansa, Volkswagen
-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 2010-12-08T23:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/porsche-shock-therapy-spurs-vw-lufthansa-efficiency-drive.html
Just as car enthusiasts envy  Porsche
SE  drivers, so do company executives salivate over the carmaker’s
profit margins, the highest in the industry.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG , Volkswagen AG and  Meyer Werft GmbH 
have all turned to Porsche to make their manufacturing processes
more efficient. While the maker of the 911 sports car is better
known for earning top honors in J.D. Power & Associates’s annual
quality study, Porsche also has a growing consulting business.  “The brand has become a synonym for masterminding the car
industry’s complex work processes,” said Thomas Stueger,
product and services chief at  Lufthansa ’s maintenance unit,
which hired Porsche to help cut the service time for the Airbus
SAS A340 plane. “Porsche is an interesting partner for us.”  The consulting division, which draws on lean-production
techniques originally developed at  Toyota Motor Corp. , aims to
expand its 220-strong workforce by more than 10 percent to serve
an increased customer base of 150 companies. This year, the unit
opened a branch in Brazil to benefit from business ahead of the
2014 World Cup and 2016 Olympics.  Porsche, the world’s most profitable carmaker, posted an
operating margin in the automotive unit in the fiscal first
quarter of 19 percent.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the biggest
luxury carmaker, posted a third-quarter automotive profit margin
of 8.1 percent, while Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz was 9.5 percent
and VW’s Audi was 11 percent.  Climbing Shelves  The consulting business was born out of former Chief
Executive Officer  Wendelin Wiedeking ’s restructuring of
production lines and work processes to stave off insolvency in
the early 1990s. Saddled with high inventory levels and wasted
factory space, Porsche had a net loss of 122 million euros ($162
million) and sales of no more than 14,000 cars when Wiedeking
took over in 1993.  “Workers used to spend half their time climbing up and
down shelves looking for pieces,” said  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer ,
director of the Center for Automotive Research at the University
of Duisburg-Essen and a former head of marketing strategies and
research at Porsche. “Porsche had no alternative but to undergo
a shock therapy which laid the groundwork for its huge
success.”  Toyota , the world’s largest automaker and Porsche’s
teacher, is also in the consulting business, operating the
Toyota Production System Support Center at its North American
manufacturing and engineering headquarters in Kentucky, where it
holds ongoing seminars for outside companies, as well as
schools, hospitals and charities, spokesman  Mike Goss  said.  Taught by Toyota  Under Toyota’s guidance, Porsche took steps to fine-tune
cooperation with suppliers to ensure factories received parts
just when they were needed on the assembly line, a method that’s
been widely copied in the automotive industry and that Porsche
is now helping companies in other industries implement.  Meyer Werft, a family-owned maker of cruise vessels based
in the northwestern German town of Papenburg, hired  Porsche  two
years ago to shorten production cycles and improve cooperation
with its 1,800 suppliers, as 75 percent of components in luxury
liners now come from outside contractors. Porsche helped the
company move to a “just-in-time” supply system to cut
inventory.  “We now have a lot of space in the hall and can do much
more things at the same time,” said Bernard Meyer, Meyer
Werft’s managing director. “We’re opening our own academy. We
want to ensure that our staff doesn’t slip back into past
routines.”  Assembling Toy Trucks  Porsche Consulting, which still advises the auto-making
unit on improving manufacturing and administration, invites
customers to its training center in Leipzig, Germany, where
managers assemble toy trucks and fold cardboard boxes before
being coached on lean-production techniques.  Porsche has come out on top of J.D. Power’s annual quality
study for six consecutive years, leaving behind Mercedes-Benz,
Toyota’s Lexus and BMW. Remedies applied at Porsche work just as
well in other industries, with customers including car
suppliers, plane makers, hospitals and furniture manufacturers,
 Eberhard Weiblen , who heads the unit, said in an interview.  “Many clients come to us and say, ‘Please turn us into the
Porsches of our industries,’” Weiblen said.  Lufthansa ’s catering division is now using Porsche’s
services to help improve logistics at a unit that produced 405
million meals last year for 300 airlines such as American
Airlines or Asiana Airlines Inc., he said.  Lufthansa, Volkswagen  Two years ago,  Lufthansa ’s maintenance unit used the sports-
car maker to cut time on aircraft overhauls. Coaching in Leipzig
and at the division’s Hamburg headquarters helped trim the time
Lufthansa needs to dismantle, check and reassemble an A340 plane
by 10 days to no more than 26 days.  Volkswagen, which is merging with Porsche, has contracted
with the consulting unit on production since 1996, Weiblen said,
declining to discuss the specifics of VW projects.  Michael Macht , who succeeded Wiedeking as Porsche CEO in July 2009 and
is now VW’s production chief, led the consulting unit from 1994
to 1998. Macht declined to comment for this story, VW spokesman
 Christoph Adomat  said.  German builder Kirchhoff, a unit of  Strabag SE , central
Europe’s biggest contruction company, hired Porsche in 2006 to
shorten construction times on highways and cut staff and
equipment costs.  “Porsche was the pioneer in bringing those Japanese
manufacturing methods to Germany,” Kirchhoff CEO  Joerg Eschenbach  said. “Those changes were very meaningful and they
worked extremely well for Porsche. For us, it was definitely a
worthwhile example to follow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 