-- Prokhorov `Happy' With RenCap as Crisis Bet Earns $500 Million
-- B y   R y a n   C h i l c o t e ,   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2010-12-08T07:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/prokhorov-happy-with-rencap-as-crisis-bet-earns-500-million.html
Mikhail Prokhorov , the billionaire
who sold most of his assets before the global credit squeeze,
said he’s keeping the Renaissance Capital stake he bought at the
peak of the crisis after the Russian brokerage’s value doubled.  “Now is not the high time to sell,” Prokhorov said in a
Bloomberg Television interview in Moscow on Dec. 6.  Prokhorov agreed to buy half of the brokerage for $500
million to keep it afloat in September 2008 after a record rout
in Russian stocks, including a 25 percent plunge in the
benchmark  Micex Index  over three days.  The investment has “at minimum doubled” as global markets
rebounded and RenCap, as the company is also known, expanded
into Africa and other emerging markets, said Prokhorov, 45. The
company will be profitable this year after posting a “small
loss” in the first half, he said.  Prokhorov, who fell to No. 2 on Forbes magazine’s list of
rich Russians in May even as his fortune swelled to $13.4
billion from $9.5 billion a year earlier, said he’s “very
happy” with the way RenCap founder and Chief Executive Officer
 Stephen Jennings , 50, guided the company through the crisis and
into new markets.  “We share together a semi-global strategy because we think
that emerging markets are the most interesting in the next 10 to
15 years,” Prokhorov said of Jennings, a native New Zealander
who founded RenCap with partners in 1995.  Deripaska, Rusal  RenCap was one of 10 banks chosen by the Russian government
to help manage a planned 1.8 trillion rubles ($58 billion) in
asset sales over the next five years. It’s one of five banks
organizing the sale of Russia’s first ruble-denominated
Eurobonds, which the government may sell as early as this month.  Prokhorov denied reports in newspapers including his own
RBC Daily in September that he planned to sell his RenCap stake
to state-run  OAO Sberbank . “There were a lot of rumors about
this, but I was never involved,” he said.  Prokhorov, who was OAO Norilsk Nickel’s CEO from 2001-2007,
agreed in April 2008 to sell his 25 percent stake in Russia’s
biggest mining company to fellow billionaire  Oleg Deripaska  for
about $7 billion in cash and 14 percent of aluminum producer
United Co. Rusal.  Using his holding company, Onexim Group, Prokhorov then
spent late 2008 and 2009 snapping up distressed assets while
fellow Russian businessmen struggled under the weight of debts.
His investment in Renaissance came 18 months after Jennings
rejected a $4 billion bid from Sberbank rival VTB Group, the
 Vedomosti  newspaper reported at the time.  ‘Think Globally’  Prokhorov said RenCap should aim to cut the share of its
revenue earned in Russia to 25 percent within five years from
about 70 percent now to offer a truly international service to
its clients.  Africa, which accounts for a quarter of RenCap’s
investment-banking business, and other non-Russian activities
will generate more than 50 percent of revenue within two to
three years, Hasnen Varawalla, RenCap’s global head of corporate
finance, said in an Oct. 5 interview.  That change in focus has contributed to a change in
personnel, as at least a dozen RenCap bankers have quit to join
rival Otkritie Financial Corp. since September, including  Igor Vayn , head of equities, and energy analyst  Alexander Burgansky .  Still, the only sensible approach for the brokerage is to
“think globally,” Prokhorov said.  “My perception is that domestic investment banks will be
dead in the nearest future, not only in Russia,” Prokhorov
said. If a fund dedicated to emerging markets wants to make
investments in various countries, “it’s a big headache” to buy
stocks through different brokerages, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan Chilcote  in Moscow at  rchilcote@bloomberg.net ;
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 