-- Prokhorov Says Missing 2011 Playoffs Is Best for Nets' Long-Term Future
-- B y   R y a n   C h i l c o t e   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2010-12-08T17:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/prokhorov-says-missing-2011-playoffs-is-best-for-nets-long-term-future.html
Billionaire owner  Mikhail Prokhorov 
of the New Jersey Nets said missing the playoffs this season may
be the best thing for the team’s hopes of long-term improvement.  While the Nets are only three or four wins away from a spot
in the National Basketball Association standings that would
equate to a postseason berth, failure to reach the playoffs for
the fourth straight season would give them the chance to add top
talent in the 2011 draft, according to the Russian owner.  “On the one hand, I am quite happy that we killed
underdog’s mentality in our team,” Prokhorov said in a Dec. 6
interview with Bloomberg Television at his headquarters in
central Moscow. “On the other hand, next year we have two draft
picks, and if we have not the best level of results, we have the
opportunity to add to our team better players.”  The Nets are due to have their own first-round pick in the
2011 draft. They also get a second-round choice acquired in a
2008 trade from the Golden State Warriors.  “It’s always a contradiction, conflict inside of me,”
Prokhorov said.  Prokhorov, 45, who paid $200 million to buy the team in a
deal approved in May, said he believes it will take “one year,
maybe two” to turn the Nets around. He has pledged to make the
team into a champion within five years, and is moving them to an
arena under construction in New York’s Brooklyn borough.  The Nets, who will play in Newark’s Prudential Center for
the next two seasons, finished a league-worst 12-70 last year.
They are 6-16 after losing their last five games and stand last
in the Atlantic Division this season, with their next game
tomorrow night at the Dallas Mavericks. They haven’t made the
playoffs since 2007.  ‘Young Team’  “Lots of the games we had some downs just in the last
seconds of the match but it’s natural for the young team,”
Prokhorov said.  Since buying the Nets, Prokhorov has hired  Avery Johnson  as
coach and revamped their 16-man roster with 12 new players. He
couldn’t lure NBA Most Valuable Player  LeBron James , who joined
the Miami Heat as a free agent. A four-way trade that would have
landed All-Star  Carmelo Anthony  from the Denver Nuggets was
called off.  Forbes magazine this year ranked Prokhorov as Russia’s
second-richest man, with a $13.4 billion fortune. The 6-foot-7
owner of gold mines, banks and media helped bankroll Russian
soccer team CSKA until he sold his stake in the country’s
biggest miner, OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, in 2008.  The Moscow-based businessman said he’ll remain owner of the
Nets for as long as 15 years because he didn’t buy the team
solely as a business venture.  ‘Labor of Love’  “For long-term strategy, 10-15 years, I plan to be the
majority shareholder of the team,” Prokhorov said. “It’s not
only business, it’s a labor of love, you know.”  Prokhorov said he’s taking advice from another Russian
oligarch,  Roman Abramovich , who has owned the Chelsea soccer
club of England’s Premier League since 2003. He said Abramovich
was his guest at a game between the Nets and the Heat in
October, a contest Miami won 101-78.  “It’s not easy to be the first foreign owner, especially
Russian owner,” Prokhorov said. “For me his experience is very
important how to speak with people, with local communities, as a
Russian oligarch, how he can make his story friendly for local
communities.”  Abramovich has spent more than 700 million pounds ($1.1
billion) on the west London club, whose performance has slipped
after winning Premier League titles in 2005 and 2006. Since
Abramovich fired  Jose Mourinho  as coach in 2007, four
replacements have failed to secure his goal of Chelsea winning
the Champions League, Europe’s elite club competition.  Prokhorov, the first non-North American owner of an NBA
team, said he was finding the task of building up the Nets a
challenge.  “Maybe it’s really more difficult to reach the result than
looks from outside,” he said. “Because it’s a very, very
competitive league with very competitive rules.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan Chilcote  in Moscow at  rchilcote@bloomberg.net ;
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  