-- Prudential Plc Considers First Collateralized Loan Obligation in Two Years
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2010-12-08T11:54:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/prudential-plc-considers-first-collateralized-loan-obligation-in-two-years.html
Prudential Plc ’s U.K. asset-
management unit is gauging demand for its first collateralized
loan obligation in two years as investors pump record amounts
into loan funds.  M&G Investment Management Ltd., which oversees more than
190 billion pounds ($300 billion), will begin canvassing
investors in the first quarter as it seeks to reopen the CLO
market in Europe. It would be the second fund manager to sell a
CLO in Europe since the financial crisis.  Sales of arbitrage CLOs, bonds backed by junk-rated loans,
evaporated in 2009 after investors shunned the hard-to-value
assets that contributed to the demise of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. Before the market’s collapse, fund managers were
increasing leverage of the deals by reducing the equity offered
to cushion investors against losses.  “Low-levered CLOs may come back and that’s certainly
something we would like to explore early next year,” said  John Foy , head of leveraged finance at M&G in London, which oversees
nine CLOs and 8 billion euros ($10.5 billion) of loan funds. “I
don’t see leverage coming back to the extent what we saw in 2006
and 2007 where hedge funds borrowed up to 10 times to invest in
leveraged loans.”  European issuance of arbitrage CLOs has lagged the U.S. as
investment managers struggle to lure investors with sufficient
return when prices of European leveraged loans jumped more than
60 percent from their record low at the end of 2008. More than
$3 billion of CLOs have been issued in the U.S., compared with
$1.22 billion in 2009, according to Morgan Stanley data.  Arbitrage  Funds dedicated to investing in loans had a record $7.2
billion of inflows this year, according to Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based research firm  EPFR Global , which started
tracking the data in 2007.  In an arbitrage CLO, asset managers buy leveraged loans at
syndication or on the secondary market and repackage them into
bonds for insurance companies and pension funds. That contrasts
with loan funds which make money from trading and lending.
Leveraged, or junk, loans are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  Intermediate Capital Group Plc, a London-based provider of
loans for private equity firms, in August packaged loans it
bought from the Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc into the 1.4
billion-euro ICG EOS Loan Fund I Ltd., its first CLO since 2008.  Making Maths Work  “There’s a tremendous amount of leveraged financing and
structuring skills looking for ways to reopen the CLO market, a
model that works well for managers as a steady stream of long-
term fee generating income,” said  Edward Eyerman , head of
leveraged finance at Fitch Ratings in London. “But you need the
math to work.”  Spreads on top-rated CLO tranches have fallen to about 260
basis points from a peak of 650 basis points in May 2009, but
not enough to reward CLO managers which are collecting an
average spread of 420 basis points on European leveraged loans,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. CLO spreads were as low
as 30 basis points in May 2007, according to Citigroup Inc.  For the arbitrage to work, the manager would need to buy
loans at less than 90 percent of face value, Foy said. The
average bid price of actively traded European loans rose to a
three-year high of 97.23 percent in the first week of
November, according to S&P Leveraged Commentary & Data, as pace
of new issuance fails to meet demand.  M&G  stopped taking new investments temporarily for its
loan funds during the height of the credit crisis to avoid
having to invest in poor-quality credit, Foy said.  “We have been selective,” he said. “The one thing we’ve
been trying to avoid at all time is to be a forced buyer in this
asset class and we will continue to do that.”  M&G’s loan funds have lent more than 18 billion euros since
it entered the market in 1999, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Kuo  in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  