-- Qatar Shares Rise to Two-Year High; Aldar Gains on Financing Speculation
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-12-08T13:35:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/qatar-shares-advance-for-fifth-day-aldar-gains-on-financing-speculation.html
Qatar shares gained to the highest in
more than two years, led by banks, on optimism government
spending on infrastructure will boost economic growth after the
country won the rights to host the soccer World Cup in 2022.  Masraf Al Rayan , Qatar’s second-largest lender complying
with Islamic law, jumped 9.2 percent and  Qatar Islamic Bank 
increased to the highest in more than a year. The  QE Index 
advanced 1.8 percent to 8,779.49, the highest since Sept. 2008,
at the 12:30 p.m. close in Doha.  Aldar Properties PJSC  surged
the most in more than eight months on speculation funding for
the company will be “shareholder friendly,” Daman Investments
PSC said. That pushed Abu Dhabi’s benchmark 0.5 percent higher.  Qatar, projected by the International Monetary Fund to have
the world’s fastest-growing economy this year, plans to more
than double the number of hotel rooms, build nine stadiums and
refurbish three others as well as construct a rail and metro
network for the tournament. Moody’s Investors Service estimates
that the country will spend about $57 billion over the next
decade for infrastructure developments related to the World Cup.  “The implementation of the projects will need the support
and commitment of local banks and that’s what fueling the
sector’s rally,” said  Amro Halwani , a trader at Shuaa Capital
PSC in Saudi Arabia. Qatar’s  banking index  increased 2.3
percent.  Valuations  Qatar’s benchmark index has soared 7.3 percent since the
country was awarded the World Cup on Dec. 2, leaving the 20
companies in the measure valued at 13.6 estimated earnings. That
compares with 9.9 times for the Abu Dhabi’s measure and 13.9
times for the  MSCI World Index  of developed global markets.  “Market valuation is starting to look robust” in Qatar,
said  Julian Bruce , director of equity sales at EFG-Hermes
Holding SAE in Dubai. “If we don’t see any announcements
relating to specific development details soon, then the market
will drift back as investors lock in some gains.”  Masraf increased the most since September 2008 to 19
riyals. Qatar Islamic, the nation’s biggest Shariah-compliant
lender, climbed to 84.8 riyals, the highest since October 2009.
 Barwa Real Estate Co. , Qatar’s biggest publicly-traded developer
by assets, jumped 3.9 percent to 40.5 riyals, the highest since
June 2009.  In Abu Dhabi, Aldar jumped 7 percent, the most since March
28, to 2.45 dirhams as about 80 million shares traded. That’s
about seven times yesterday’s volume. “From the heightened
trading activity, it seems the market view is that there will be
a shareholder friendly” outcome for the company’s cash
requirements, said  Shehzad Janab , asset management head at
Dubai-based Daman.  Aldar’s Debt  Aldar said Nov. 9 it is in the “final stages of
discussions” with the government regarding the company’s cash
requirements and expects to reach a “framework” by the end of
the year. The share have lost 51 percent this year. “We have
said before we will give the framework in the fourth quarter,”
Chief Financial Officer  Shafqat Ali Malik  said in a telephone
interview today, declining to provide details.  Aldar sold assets on Yas Island to the emirate’s government
for 9.14 billion dirhams ($2.5 billion) earlier this year. The
company has 22.4 billion dirhams of debt outstanding, including
11.8 billion dirhams due in 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The  Dubai Financial Market General Index  retreated for the
first time in four days, falling 0.9 percent. Kuwait’s  measure 
slipped 0.1 percent. Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index  and
Bahrain’s  All Share Index  advanced 0.3 percent. Oman’s
market was closed for a holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at   zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  