-- Quebecor Leads Junk Bonds to `Heroic' World-Beating Returns: Canada Credit
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-12-08T17:34:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/quebecor-leads-junk-bonds-to-heroic-world-beating-returns-canada-credit.html
Junk bonds in Canada are
outperforming the rest of the world’s high-yield, high-risk
corporate debt market by the most since January as the country’s
relative fiscal health attracts investors concerned that
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis may worsen.  The Bank of America Merrill Lynch Canada High Yield Index,
which tracks 18 bonds with a par value of C$4.7 billion ($4.7
billion), is up 0.6 percent since the end of October, compared
with a loss of 0.9 percent for Merrill’s Global High Yield
Index. The Canadian broad market index is down 1.5 percent.  Speculative-grade companies such as  Quebecor Inc.  and Corus
Entertainment Inc. have issued a record amount of debt in 2010,
encouraged by demand for assets in Canada, which has the lowest
debt to output ratio among Group of Seven countries. Global
high-yield returns have lagged behind amid concern that an 85
billion euro ($113 billion) bailout of Ireland may fail to avert
a wider European debt crisis.  “The tone in the market has been positive,”  Joanna Zapior , head of corporate bond research at CIBC World Markets,
said by phone from Toronto. “The Canadian high-yield market has
shrugged off any hiccups in global markets.”  Canadian firms set a record last month with five high-
yield, or junk, bond offerings worth C$930 million, Zapior and
her colleagues  Adam Bulley  and  Craig Wilson  wrote in a Dec. 2
report. Issuance for the year was a record C$3 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Canadian junk bonds outperformed global peers by 2.2
percentage points in November, the most since the 5.5
percentage-point advantage in January. The Canadian index lagged
behind in September and October.  More Junk Sales  December will likely see “a couple more” high-yield sales,
with more to come in January, Zapior said. She declined to
provide names of potential issuers.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the Bank of Canada held
interest rates steady at 1 percent for a second straight meeting
yesterday. Policy makers said they will remain careful about
future interest-rate increases as falling exports and Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis hinder the economic recovery. The  decision 
to stand pat was anticipated by all 24 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  The extra yield investors demand to own the debt of
Canadian investment-grade corporations rather than the federal
government narrowed yesterday to 142 basis points, or 1.42
percentage points, from 141 the day before, according to a Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index. Yields rose to 4.01 percent,
from 3.91 percent.  Provincial Bond Market  The securities lost 0.85 percent in November as a drop in
bond prices drove yields to 3.91 percent on average, from 3.64
percent on Oct. 31. They are down 0.8 percent this month.  In the provincial bond market, relative yields narrowed
yesterday to 54 basis points. Yields rose to 3.31 percent, from
3.21 percent on Dec. 6. The securities lost 1.2 percent in
November, the biggest loss since December 2009, and are down 1.5
percent this month.  Ontario paid 46 basis points over federal benchmarks to
sell C$750 million in a reoffering of its 3.15 percent bonds
maturing in September 2015. The sale brings the total
outstanding to C$2.25 billion.  Housing starts rose in November to 187,200, from a revised
167,800 in October, Canadian Mortgage and Housing Corp. reported
today. That beat the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 21
economists that called for a rise of 173,000.  Canada sold C$3.2 billion of three-year debt, drawing an
average yield of 2.091 percent. The government received bids of
C$7.8 billion for the 2 percent securities maturing in March
2014, according to a statement today on the Bank of Canada’s
website.  “Almost Heroic Return”  Relative yields of Canadian high-yield bonds over federal
benchmarks narrowed to about 4.95 percent at the end of last
week, from as high as 15 percent in April 2009. They ended
yesterday at 496 basis points, compared with 601 for Merrill’s
global high-yield index, which comprises 2,523 bonds with a par
value of $1.2 trillion.  Canada’s high-yield index is a “small, concentrated
index” with a slightly higher average credit rating than the
global index, according to  Preston Peacock  at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch. The yield on the Canadian index ended Dec. 6 at
7.45 percent, compared with 8.06 percent globally.  High-yield, high-risk bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service, less than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s and lower
than BBB(low) by DBRS Ltd. The Canadian high-yield index is
rated the equivalent of BB3, or a notch higher than the average
rating on the global index, Peacock said.  Yield, Credit Quality  “The Canada High Yield Index scored a positive return in a
tough month for bonds in general and credit in particular,”,
Peacock and his colleagues  Phil Galdi  and  Steve Vaccaro  in New
York, wrote in a Dec. 3 report to clients. “Compared to the
global high yield index or even the Canadian government index,
this is an almost heroic return.”  “What is happening here is that you’ve got yield and
you’ve got slightly better credit quality,” Peacock, director
of portfolio strategy, said by phone from New York. “The
particular issuers represented in the Canadian high-yield index
have done very well, relative to the much larger global high-
yield universe.”  Bonds of Quebecor, the Montreal-based cable-television
operator, returned 2.2 percent in November, the best performance
among the high-yield index’s 15 issuers.  Corus , also based in
Montreal and the owner of the YTV television network, climbed
1.1 percent. North American Energy Partners Inc., the Calgary-
based provider of oil-sands services, advanced 2.1 percent.  The Canadian high-yield index is headed for a 23 percent
return this year, the second-best annual performance in the 12
years since Merrill started tracking the data. It returned 32
percent last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  