-- Rand Slides Most in 1-1/2 Weeks on U.S. Tax Cuts, Korea Tensions Increase
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-12-08T15:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/rand-weakens-most-in-almost-two-weeks-as-u-s-tax-cuts-boost-dollar-demand.html
The rand retreated the most in 1 1/2
weeks as tensions on the Korean peninsula, speculation China may
lift interest rates and tax cuts in the U.S. spurred demand for
the relative safety of the dollar.  The currency depreciated as much as 1.4 percent to 6.9891
per dollar, the biggest intraday slide since Nov. 26, and was
0.5 percent weaker at 6.9294 by 4:40 p.m. in Johannesburg, from
a previous close of 6.8938. Against the euro, the rand lost 0.1
percent to 9.1775.  “It’s really a dollar story that’s driving the rand a bit
softer,” said  Nigel Rendell , an emerging-market strategist at
RBC Capital in London. “The continuation of tax cuts in the
U.S. seems to be supportive to stronger growth there, which is
seeing the dollar strengthen against emerging-market
currencies.”  The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
six trading partners, advanced for a third day after President
Barack Obama agreed to extend Bush-era tax cuts for two years,
boosting recovery prospects for the world’s biggest economy.
Stocks slumped in Asia on speculation China will raise borrowing
costs to curb inflation while South Korea’s won fell after
Yonhap News reported that North Korea fired artillery shells
near the disputed border with its neighbor.  “Commodity-linked currencies in particular have weakened
as a result of President Barack Obama’s address,”  John Cairns ,
head of foreign-exchange research at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, wrote in a research note today.  Retail Sales  Gold and platinum, which together account for about a fifth
of South Africa’s export revenue, fell as the dollar’s rally
weighed on the metals, which are priced in the U.S. currency.  South African  retail sales  expanded 6.1 percent, from a
revised 6 percent in September, according to a  Statistics South
Africa  report today. That was below the  6.2 percent  increase
predicted by economists polled in a Bloomberg survey.  Africa’s biggest economy will probably expand less than 3
percent in 2010 as the recovery remains fragile,  Reserve Bank 
Governor  Gill Marcus  said at the central bank’s annual general
meeting in Pretoria today.  Government bonds declined for a third day, with the
benchmark 13.5 percent security due September 2015 slumping 61
cents to 123.68 rand. The yield on the bond increased 13 basis
points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 7.49 percent, the highest
since Nov. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  