-- Treasuries Decline, Yields Rise to Five-Month High, Before 10-Year Auction
-- B y   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-12-08T06:53:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/treasury-yield-is-near-five-month-high-before-21-billion-10-year-auction.html
Treasuries fell, pushing 10-year
 yields  to the highest level in five months, on speculation
demand will wane at an auction of the securities today because
the U.S. may need to sell more debt to fund tax cut extensions.  Ten-year notes extended yesterday’s biggest tumble in 18
months after President  Barack Obama  on Dec. 6 agreed to prolong
tax cuts for two years and an auction of three-year debt drew
the least demand since February. Thirty-year  yields  rose to a
six-month high before reports this week that economists said
will show consumer confidence increased and fewer Americans
filed claims for unemployment benefits.  “The auctions are a little bit disappointing, and that
reflects the fact that investors want more of a premium attached
to Treasuries,” said  Adam Carr , a senior economist in Sydney at
ICAP Australia Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest interdealer
broker. “We might see a little bit of selling action.”  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year note rose 10 basis
points to 3.23 percent as of 6:48 a.m. in London, after reaching
3.25 percent, the highest since June 22, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The 2.625 percent security due November
2020 fell 26/32, or $8.13 per $1,000 face amount, to 94 29/32.
The yield jumped 21 basis points yesterday.  The 30-year  yield  climbed four basis points to 4.41 percent
after touching 4.44 percent, the most since May 14. The 10-year
yield is likely to increase to 3.25 percent “in another week or
so,” Carr said.  Ten-Year Auction  The $21 billion of 10-year notes to be sold today yielded
3.24 percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 2.636 percent
at the prior sale on Nov. 9. Investors bid for 2.80 times the
amount offered last month, compared with 2.99 times on Oct. 13.  At yesterday’s three-year note auction, the securities drew
a yield of 0.862 percent, compared with the average forecast of
0.841 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of primary dealers. The
bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids
with the amount of debt offered, was 2.91, the lowest level
since February.  The U.S. will auction $13 billion of 30-year debt tomorrow,
completing this week’s $66 billion of note and bond sales.  Losses in Treasuries were tempered on speculation Ireland’s
debt crisis will spread, underpinning demand for safer assets.  Ireland is under pressure to pass legislation to receive an
85 billion-euro ($112.4 billion) bailout. Lawmakers yesterday
passed an initial series of votes on a 6 billion-euro budget in
 parliament  in Dublin. The government faces at least three more
votes, including a separate ballot on cuts in welfare payments
before the budget is approved.  ‘Much Worse’  “The situation in Europe looks much worse than in the U.S.,
given that problems in Ireland, Greece and Portugal are likely
to recur,” said  Yuuki Sakurai , who helps oversee the equivalent
of $8.7 billion as chief executive officer at Fukoku Capital
Management Inc. in Tokyo. “From the viewpoint of investing
overseas, U.S. government debt is attractive.”  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said yesterday the European Union needs to find a
“comprehensive” solution to its debt crisis and not rely on a
“case-by-case” method.  U.S. government debt has handed investors a 6.2 percent
return so far this year, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes.  Obama’s Deal  In Obama’s deal with the Republicans, he agreed on the two-
year extension of current tax rates in exchange for another 13
months of federal unemployment insurance for the long-term
jobless and cutting the payroll tax by $120 billion for one year.  The President said he would accept a lower rate for the
estate tax than Democrats wanted in order to break a stalemate
over extending  George W. Bush ’s tax cuts before Congress
adjourns.  “Treasuries are sharply weaker after President Obama
extended the Bush tax cuts,” analysts including  Josephine Heffernan , Sydney-based senior economist at St. George Bank Ltd.,
wrote in a research note today. “The extension will see a
further widening in the government deficit and increase the
supply of bonds.”  Jobless claims  declined by 11,000 to 425,000 in the week
ended Dec. 4, according to a Bloomberg survey before the Labor
Department report tomorrow. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary  index  of consumer sentiment rose to 72.5 in
December from 71.6 the prior month, a separate Bloomberg survey
showed before the figures are released on Dec. 10.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold 10-year notes over
2-year debt increased to as much as 2.68 percentage points today,
the most since May 18.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year  notes  and those on
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the securities,
widened to as much as 2.28 percentage points today, matching
yesterday which was the most since May 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ron Harui  in Tokyo at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  