-- Reliance to Boost South America Oil Imports on Margins
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2010-12-08T10:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/reliance-may-increase-south-america-oil-imports-to-boost-margins-jbc-says.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. , owner of
the world’s biggest refining complex, is poised to increase
crude imports from Latin America as it seeks better refining
margins by processing heavier and cheaper grades of oil.  Reliance, controlled by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani , imported
about 300,000 barrels a day of crude on average from South
America during the first 10 months of 2010, Richard Gorry,
director at energy consultants JBC Asia Pte Ltd., said by
telephone yesterday from Singapore. This accounted for about a
quarter of the company’s total imports during the period,
compared with 13 percent in the same period of 2009, he said.  Reliance’s plants are complex refineries that turn low-
quality crude into  gasoline  and  diesel  for sale mainly outside
of India. Average global demand for oil products increased 3.8
percent to 87.8 million barrels a day over the first 10 months
of 2010, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “Buying crude from South America is something we are going
to see more and more in the future, because it has relatively
good value if you have the right refining set up,” Gorry said.  Heavy grades of crude oil are not widely available across
the world, and are found mainly in Iran, South America and Sub-
Saharan Africa, Gorry said.  Iran is under a fourth round of United Nations sanctions
because it refuses to curtail its nuclear program, which the
U.S. and European Union say is a shield for weapons development.
This has deterred companies from dealing with the Persian Gulf
state.  Chavez Eyes Asia  Venezuela, which is looking to move its oil exports away
from the U.S. and produces heavy grades of crude, is the main
South American supplier to Reliance, Gorry said.  About two-thirds of Reliance’s imports from South America
during the first 10 months of 2010 came from Venezuela.  Manoj Warrier , a spokesman for Reliance, couldn’t immediately provide
comment on the company’s crude oil imports.  The Arcturus Voyager, a crude oil tanker, is due to reach
the port of Sikka at Jamnagar in western India on Dec. 10 after
sailing from off the coast of Venezuela through the south of
Africa, ship-tracking data captured by Bloomberg show.  Reliance, India’s biggest company by  market value , owns two
adjacent refineries at Jamnagar in Gujarat state. The plants
have a combined capacity of 1.24 million barrels a day, the
largest at a single location.  “Venezuela is trying to send out a strong message that it
is not entirely reliant on the North American market,” said
 Praveen Kumar , the Singapore-based head of the South Asia oil
and gas team at FACTS Global Energy.  Reliance ‘Active’  “Venezuela is looking to increasingly ship more of its
crudes to the Asian market, and Reliance is one of the active
buyers in the region,” he said.  Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  has repeatedly sparred
with the U.S. during his 11 years in power, even as his country
 ships  about 1 million barrels of crude a day to U.S. refineries.
Chavez regularly accuses the U.S. State Department and Pentagon
of planning an invasion of his country to tap its oil reserves.  Reliance’s refining complex in western India is located two
days away by ship from the Middle East. A shipping trip from
Venezuela to western India takes about 40 days.  The cost for a Very Large Crude Carrier (VLCC) that can
carry about 2 million barrels of crude oil to sail from
Venezuela to Singapore is about $4 million, Gorry said.  Based on that, shipping costs work out to about $2 on top
of the cost of crude. The difference between the heavier grades
of crude and lighter grades is between $7 and $8 a barrel, more
than making up for the higher shipping costs, he said.  Margins Gain  “Clearly the freight costs are not high enough to stop
Reliance from importing,” he said. The Venezuelan  crude oil and
petroleum basket  rose 4.4 percent in the week ending Dec. 3 to
$79.17 from $75.84 the prior week. The average price of the
crude oil and petroleum basket so far this year is $71.67.  Mumbai-based Reliance earned $7.90 on turning each barrel
of crude into fuels in the three months ended Sept. 30, up 32
percent from a year earlier, the company said Oct. 30.  Reliance shares fell 1 percent to 1,020.55 rupees at the
3:30 p.m. close of trading in Mumbai. The benchmark  Sensitive
Index  of the Bombay Stock Exchange declined 1.2 percent.  Crude for January delivery fell for a second day, dropping
1 percent to $87.89 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange at 11:15 a.m. in Singapore, having
reached a 26-month high of $90.76 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pratish Narayanan  in Mumbai 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell@bloomberg.net . 