-- Tribune Creditors Sue Ex-Newsday Publisher For $7.4 Million in Payments
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2010-12-08T01:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/tribune-creditors-sue-former-newsday-publisher-seeking-to-recover-payments.html
Tribune Co.  creditors sued  Timothy P. Knight , the former publisher of Newsday, seeking to recover
payments he received before the company collapsed and filed for
bankruptcy almost two years ago.  The official committee of unsecured creditors wants to
recoup payments that Knight received in December 2007 and August
2008 totaling about $7.4 million, according to the complaint
filed today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware.  The complaint is the latest in a series of lawsuits that
began last week after Judge  Kevin J. Carey  gave creditors
authority to sue to recover payments to so-called insiders. It
follows at least 18 others filed by the creditors against
current and former executives, including former Chief Executive
Officer  Dennis FitzSimons .  Gary Weitman , a Tribune spokesman, and Adam G. Landis, a
lawyer for the creditors, didn’t immediately return e-mails
seeking comment. Knight couldn’t be immediately reached for
comment.  Newsday, a newspaper on Long Island in New York, was sold
by Tribune to  Cablevision Systems Corp.  in 2008.  Tribune, publisher of the Los Angeles Times and the Chicago
Tribune newspapers, filed for Chapter 11 protection in December
2008, a year after a buyout led by real estate developer  Sam Zell  saddled the company’s with about $8 billion more debt.  The four disclosure statements, documents describing the
competing proposals submitted by four groups of creditors hoping
to reorganize the company, are due tomorrow. The plans differ on
how to resolve allegations over the 2007 buyout.  The bankruptcy case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, and the
Knight case is In re The Official Committee of Unsecured
Creditors of Tribune v. Timothy P. Knight, 10-55956, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Bathon  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 