-- Tribune Lawsuit Deadline Passes as Creditor Reorganization Vote Approaches
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-12-09T20:47:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/tribune-creditors-face-midnight-deadline-to-sue-over-zell-led-2007-buyout.html
The deadline for  Tribune Co.  and its
creditors to file lawsuits over the company’s 2007 buyout passed
at midnight, marking the start of the next phase of the
newspaper chain’s $13 billion bankruptcy.  This week, the company and its creditors filed dozens of
lawsuits in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
seeking to claw back payments to Tribune’s suppliers, lenders
and executives, including Chairman  Sam Zell .  The players who were most likely to sue “have already
filed,” creditors’ lawyer  David LeMay  said in an interview
yesterday.  Tribune and four groups of hedge funds will now begin
competing for the votes of creditors in the coming weeks. The
four hedge funds each back a different proposal about how to
settle allegations that the buyout left Chicago-based Tribune
insolvent by adding more than $8 billion in debt the company
couldn’t afford.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Kevin J. Carey  said at a Dec. 6
hearing that he would give the hedge funds permission this week
to begin soliciting creditors once he reviewed disclosure
statements for the four proposals. Those statements are written
to help creditors vote on the proposals.  Creditor Votes  Carey will take the creditors’ votes into account at a
hearing in March where he will probably decide which plan to
approve. All of the funds have said in court that the buyout
lawsuits, and how they should be resolved, will dominate the
March hearing.  In two lawsuits dated Nov. 1 involving the buyout, Zell,
Tribune’s former shareholders and the buyout lenders were
accused by the official committee of unsecured creditors of
pushing forward with the deal even though they knew it would
bankrupt the company.  One of the lawsuits seeks to recover more than $2 billion
in loan payments and bank fees from the buyout lenders,
including units of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , Bank of America’s
Merrill Lynch & Co. and the hedge funds Angelo Gordon & Co. and
Oaktree Capital Management LP.  Those companies have all denied wrongdoing in court papers.  In the other lawsuit, the committee of creditors seeks to
recover part of the $72.8 million paid to the Tribune executives
who implemented the buyout, including former Chief Executive
Officer  Dennis FitzSimons , former Chief Financial Officer  Donald Grenesko , and current Chief Financial Officer  Chandler Bigelow .
Those executives sold shares as part of the buyout and collected
incentive payments, the lawsuit alleges.  Shareholder Payments  The same lawsuit also seeks to recover part of the $8.3
billion paid to shareholders as part of the buyout. Zell
organized the buyout, arranging for Tribune to borrow the money
needed to pay the shareholders, according to the suit.  The three biggest shareholders named in the lawsuit are the
Chandler Family Trusts, which owned the Los Angeles Times until
they merged it with Tribune in 2000, and two charitable
foundations associated with the McCormick family, which once
controlled the Chicago Tribune. Those three shareholders
collected $2.73 billion by selling their stakes in Tribune.  The complaint against them calls the buyout a “foolish and
destructive transaction.”  “Predictably, Tribune filed for bankruptcy protection less
than a year after the LBO transaction closed,” the creditors
committee said in the complaint.  Second Anniversary  Yesterday was the second anniversary of Tribune’s
bankruptcy.  Other recent lawsuits were filed against suppliers
including Twentieth Century Fox Corp., which provided
programming for Tribune television stations, and telephone
company  AT&T Inc.  Such lawsuits are common in bankruptcy cases,
where the law allows companies to try to recover certain
payments made in the 90 days before the bankruptcy was filed.  The company has said that the lawsuits don’t mean those
named in the complaints did anything wrong.  Zell’s attorney, Jon Wasserman, denied any wrongdoing.  “We intend to defend ourselves vigorously,” Wasserman
said in an e-mailed statement today.  Tribune’s legal advisers were also targeted by committee
lawsuits, including Paul, Hastings, Janofsky & Walker LLP.  The bankruptcy case is In re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 