-- Rio Ferdinand Will Be Ready for Arsenal Match, BBC Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2010-12-08T11:53:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/rio-ferdinand-will-be-ready-for-arsenal-match-bbc-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. media, with clickable links to the Web.  Ferdinand Return  Manchester United defender  Rio Ferdinand , taken off in the
second half of last night’s 1-1 draw with Valencia with a tight
hamstring, will be able to play next week against Arsenal, the
 British Broadcasting Corp.  said.  United manager  Alex Ferguson  said Ferdinand hadn’t torn any
muscles and that the club would “have several days now to make
sure he is right.”  Pardew the Pick?  Newcastle is likely to hire former West Ham and Charlton
manager Alan Pardew after ex-Tottenham coach  Martin Jol  declined
to replace the fired  Chris Hughton , who worked for him at Spurs,
the  Daily Mail said .  Pardew, 49, may take over tomorrow to prepare for this
weekend’s home match with Liverpool, the newspaper said.  Carroll Departure?  The next Newcastle coach will take the job knowing that
striker Andy Carroll may be sold by the club,  the Independent
said .  The 21-year-old is the team’s biggest asset, with a value
of about 15 million pounds ($24 million), and had a close
relationship with Hughton, the newspaper said.  21 Million-Pound Man  Arsenal may give midfielder  Samir Nasri  a new five-year 21
million-pound contract extension after the Frenchman became the
London club’s leading scorer this season with 11 goals,  the Sun
said.   Nasri’s contract still has 18 months on it, and the 23-
year-old said he’s benefiting from a break in playing after not
making France’s World Cup squad, the newspaper said.  Arsenal will also try to sign extensions with defender  Gael Clichy  and forward  Andrey Arshavin , the newspaper said.  Benitez Problems  Inter Milan manager Rafael Benitez is under pressure to win
the FIFA Club World Cup as his club sits in fifth place in Serie
A,  the Mirror said .  The Spaniard has overseen four league losses, including one
to AC Milan, and is getting caught up in internal political
conflicts involving President Massimo Moratti, the newspaper
said.  Inter will have a bye to the semifinals of the FIFA event,
which is being held in Abu Dhabi.  Loyalty Questions  Aston Villa manager  Gerard Houllier  was criticized by his
own fans for acknowledging and applauding the crowd at Liverpool
and ignoring Villa’s supporters after his 3-0 loss in his return
to Anfield this week,  the Sun said.   Houllier, who left Liverpool in 2004, joined Villa less
than three months ago, and with the team just two spots out of
the relegation zone, supporters are turning on him, the
newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 