-- Roche Drug Avastin Rejected by U.K. Agency NICE for Use in Breast Cancer
-- B y   M a r t h e   F o u r c a d e
-- 2010-12-08T13:25:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/roche-drug-avastin-rejected-by-u-k-agency-for-breast-cancer.html
Roche Holding AG ’s Avastin failed to
win the backing of the U.K. National Institute for Health and
Clinical Excellence against breast cancer that has spread.  The medicine’s “limited and uncertain benefit” when added
to a type of chemotherapy called taxane is too small to justify
the cost, the agency said today in an e-mailed statement. NICE
advises the U.K.’s National Health Service on cost-effective
treatments.  Roche’s  top-selling medicine , known chemically as
bevacizumab, is under pressure as regulators in Europe and the
U.S. reconsider its impact on breast malignancies. The Swiss
drugmaker said it’s “disappointed” and the decision may
deprive some women with an aggressive form of breast cancer of a
life-prolonging drug.  Roche proposed limiting the cost of Avastin to 23,000
pounds ($36,000) for each patient, the Basel, Switzerland-based
company said in an e-mailed statement today. Under the proposal,
the health service would have paid for the first 10 grams of the
drug, said  Laura Gibson , a spokeswoman for  NICE . The U.K.
Department of Health rejected the offer, so it wasn’t considered
by the cost agency, Gibson said by e-mail.  “We did not receive any evidence from the manufacturer to
show that bevacizumab can significantly lengthen a patient’s
life or, importantly, offer a better quality of life than
existing treatments,” NICE Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Dillon  said in the agency’s release.  The draft ruling can be appealed, NICE said, and final
guidance will be published early next year.  The agency last month rejected Avastin for use with
chemotherapy against colorectal cancer that has spread, and in
August 2009 said the treatment costs too much to use against the
most common type of kidney tumor.  Breast cancer  is the most common malignancy in females and
strikes about 1 million women a year globally, according to the
Geneva-based World Health Organization. Avastin generated 6.2
billion Swiss francs ($6.3 billion) in revenue last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marthe Fourcade  at 
 mfourcade@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  