-- Roger Clemens Perjury Trial Postponed to July at Request of Defense Lawyer
-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 2010-12-08T16:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/roger-clemens-arrives-in-washington-court-for-hearing-in-u-s-steroid-case.html
Roger Clemens , the former Major
League Baseball pitcher who won a record seven Cy Young awards,
got three more months to prepare for trial on charges that he
lied to Congress in 2008 when he denied using performance-
enhancing drugs, including steroids.  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  in Washington today
granted defense lawyer  Rusty Hardin ’s request to postpone the
trial, which was scheduled to begin April 5. Jury selection is
now set for July 6. The trial may last six weeks, attorneys for
both sides told the judge.  In August, Clemens, 48, was indicted on three counts of
making false statements, one count of obstruction of justice and
two counts of perjury. The former New York Yankee pleaded not
guilty and faces a $1.5 million fine and a maximum of 30 years
in prison if convicted on all charges.  “The government has had two and a half years to
investigate,” Hardin told the judge when requesting the delay.  Clemens, known as “the Rocket,” pitched for the Yankees,
Boston Red Sox, Houston Astros and Toronto Blue Jays. He won 354
games, ninth in major league history, and had 4,672 strikeouts,
ranking third all-time. The right-hander won more Cy Young
Awards, given to the best pitcher in his league, than any other
player.  Clemens didn’t speak to reporters when he arrived in court
today. In August, Walton issued a gag order covering Clemens,
attorneys for both sides and potential witnesses, warning them
not to make prejudicial comments about the case in public.  54,000 Pages  Walton granted the postponement based on the “voluminous”
evidence and the need for defense lawyers to retain their own
scientific expert to examine it. Assistant U.S. Attorney Steve
Durham told Walton that prosecutors have provided 54,000 pages
of so-called discovery material to defense attorneys.  Clemens has denied drug use since former Senator  George Mitchell  released a  report  on steroids in Major League Baseball
on Dec. 13, 2007. Mitchell named Clemens in the report. Clemens
appeared before an investigative committee of Congress in 2008
and repeatedly denied ever using banned substances.  “I have never used steroids, human growth hormone, or any
other type of illegal performance-enhancing drugs,” Clemens
said in  testimony  prepared for delivery to the congressional
committee probing drug use in baseball in February 2008. “These
types of drugs should play no role in athletics at any level.”  The Federal Bureau of Investigation opened an inquiry after
a congressional committee told then-Attorney General  Michael Mukasey  in a letter that Clemens may have lied under oath.  Andy Pettitte  Clemens’s denials were contradicted by the testimony of his
former trainer,  Brian McNamee , who said he injected Clemens with
steroids and HGH, and ex-teammate  Andy Pettitte , House Oversight
and Government Reform Committee Chairman  Henry Waxman  and former
ranking committee Republican  Tom Davis  said in the letter to
Mukasey.  Pettitte told the committee in a deposition and affidavit
that Clemens admitted in 1999 or 2000 that he used HGH.  Clemens testified that McNamee injected him with only
vitamin B-12 and the painkiller Lidocaine. Clemens told Congress
that Pettitte, who played alongside him with the Yankees and
Houston Astros, “misremembers” a conversation they had about
HGH. HGH is considered a performance-enhancing drug because of
its ability to grow muscle and aid recovery after training.  Hardin said the only significant obstacle to obtaining
potential evidence he faced involved material in the possession
of the Mitchell commission, including interviews with McNamee.  The commission has claimed the material is protected under
attorney-client privilege, prosecutors said. Walton instructed
Clemens’s attorneys to get subpoenas for the material and said
he would rule on the matter in March if the commission refused
to hand over the evidence.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Riley  in Washington at   michaelriley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  