-- Russian Central Bank May Raise Interest Rates as Focus Shifts to Inflation
-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2010-12-09T16:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/russian-central-bank-may-raise-interest-rates-as-focus-shifts-to-inflation.html
Russia’s central bank said it may
increase interest rates in the first quarter, signaling a shift
in its focus to inflation as the International Monetary Fund
warned prices may remain “elevated on unchanged policies.”  “Inflation is beginning to worry us,” Chairman  Sergey Ignatiev  told reporters yesterday in Moscow. The central bank
will “primarily” use its interest-rate policy to control
rising prices, he said.  Policy makers are weighing the first rate increase since
2008 after inflation accelerated to the fastest in 11 months in
November. The IMF urged Russia to focus monetary policy
“squarely on reducing inflation” as the Washington-based fund
raised its forecast for prices to grow 8.5 percent from about 6
percent.  “While the sharp increase in inflation in recent months
has been driven largely by a drought-related spike in food
prices, non-food prices have also been increasing steadily since
July,”  Juha Kahkonen , chief of the IMF’s Russia mission, said
in a  statement  today. “Accordingly, an increase in policy
interest rates would seem warranted to prevent the second-round
effects of food-price increases from taking hold.”  Ruble Climbs  The ruble climbed to its strongest level in almost a month
against the dollar, surging 0.5 percent to 30.91 per greenback,
the strongest since Nov. 13, by the 5 p.m. close in Moscow, and
gained versus the euro as investors shunned European assets for
the prospect of higher Russian returns.  The price of oil, Russia’s chief export earner, also gained
today by as much as 1.3 percent to $89.42 a barrel in New York.  Higher interest rates would bolster the ruble’s appeal as a
target for the carry trade, where investors borrow funds in
countries where interest rates are lower and then invest the
money where the returns are higher.  The central bank lowered its main  refinancing rate  14 times
between April 2009 and May this year and has since kept the rate
at 7.75 percent for six months as policy makers sought to keep a
lid on prices without damping the economy’s recovery from a 7.9
percent slump last year.  The inflation rate may reach 8.4 percent this year after
higher food costs and a weaker ruble fanned price-growth,
Ignatiev said yesterday. The worst drought in at least half a
century triggered crop losses and drove up food costs after
price growth slowed to a record-low 5.5 percent in July.  Maintain Policy  While Bank Rossii said Nov. 26 that it was committed to
“monetary stimulus,” the bank’s statement omitted a previous
pledge to maintain that policy “for the coming months.”  “Russia’s central bank is hawkish on rates amid inflation
pressure, admitting refinancing rates could be hiked in the
first quarter,” VTB Capital analysts led by  Dmitry Dmitriev  in
Moscow said yesterday in a note to clients. “We also stress the
mounting prospect of a rate hike in early 2011.”  Bank Rossii may lift the benchmark rate by a quarter-point
by the end of March, according to the median estimate of 19
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Traders are pricing in 0.58
percentage points of increases over the next three months,
forward-rate agreements show.  The Economy Ministry estimates gross domestic product will
grow 3.8 percent this year, less than the 4 percent initially
forecast by the government. GDP expanded an annual 2.7 percent
in the third quarter, the slowest pace this year.  Chinese Growth  China’s economy expanded three times faster, at 9.6 percent
last quarter, and India’s grew an annual 8.9 percent in the
three months through September. The Indian economy is likely to
expand 8.5 percent in the fiscal year through March, the most in
three years, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said Nov. 20.  In addition to considering rate increases, Bank Rossii may
combat inflation by increasing reserve requirements for banks if
capital inflows resume, Ignatiev said today. Net capital outflow
was about $9 billion last month, raising the total for the first
11 months of the year to $29 billion, Ignatiev said.  Russia’s emerging-market peers, including Brazil and China,
have recently tightened policy to head off inflationary pressure
as domestic demand expands.  Brazil’s central bank last week raised reserve and capital
requirements to slow consumer lending. China has increased
reserve requirements five times this year, with the latest
taking effect Nov. 29.  ‘More Active’  Turkey’s central bank said Nov. 29 that it may make “more
active” use of reserve requirements to stem foreign currency
inflows. Peru’s central bank raised its benchmark lending
rate five times this year and increased reserve requirements to
prevent inflation from exceeding the government’s target range.  Russia’s key rate is lower than Brazil’s benchmark Selic
overnight rate, which policy makers increased three times this
year to  10.75 percent . India’s central bank raised rates for a
sixth time this year on Nov. 2, boosting the  repurchase rate  by
a quarter-point to 6.25 percent and the reverse repurchase rate
by a similar margin to 5.25 percent.  In Russia, bank lending growth is set to accelerate next
year, expanding 20 percent in nominal terms, Ignatiev said.
Loans have increased about 13 percent this year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 