-- Salesforce.com to Buy Heroku for $212 Million to Tap Market for Ruby Apps
-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2010-12-08T21:59:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/salesforce-com-to-buy-heroku-for-212-million-to-tap-market-for-ruby-apps.html
Salesforce.com Inc.  agreed to buy
Heroku Inc. for $212 million in the company’s biggest
acquisition, bolstering its lineup of products for sharing
Internet-based applications.  Heroku is the fastest-growing Internet-based system for
applications written in the Ruby programming language,
Salesforce said today in a statement. The company expects to
complete the all-cash deal in the quarter that ends Jan. 31.  Salesforce  Chief Executive Officer  Marc Benioff  aims to tap
the surging market for Ruby apps, which often have a social
component and can update information instantly. Twitter Inc.,
Groupon Inc. and other startups rely on the language to develop
their software. Heroku was founded in 2007 to make it easier to
distribute and manage Ruby apps on the Internet -- via the so-
called cloud.  “They’re doing amazing work, some of the best computer
science I’ve ever seen,” Benioff said today at the company’s
Dreamforce conference in San Francisco. “I thought -- this is
amazing. If we buy this company, we can accelerate this whole
industry, move the whole industry to Ruby.”  Salesforce has been branching out into new areas, including
business social networks. The company introduced a product
yesterday called Database.com that steps up its rivalry with
 Oracle Corp.  and other software makers.  Earlier this year, Salesforce bought Jigsaw for $142
million, giving the company an online database for business
contacts. Salesforce said at the time that the deal marked its
entry into the $3 billion market for cloud-based business-to-
business data services.  Stock Gain  Salesforce, based in San Francisco, rose $5.34, or 3.7
percent, to $150.58 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite  trading . The shares have more than doubled in value
this year.  Salesforce also runs Force.com, which lets programmers
create software for the company’s cloud platform, and an online
marketplace for business apps. In June, the company began
offering its customers software called Chatter for building
online networks to let their employees communicate more easily.  Revenue may increase 22 percent to $2.01 billion for the
2012 fiscal year, which begins in February, according to the
average  estimate  of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The Heroku acquisition will cut earnings by about 2 cents
in the fiscal fourth quarter, and 12 cents to 13 cents in the
following year, Salesforce said.  More Deals?  The deal may lead to more acquisitions, said  Al Hilwa , an
analyst at research firm IDC in Seattle.  “This move will likely precipitate an acquisition of other
such application platform boutique firms and drive up their
valuations,” he said in an e-mail. “I am guessing that they
also had talks with the other leader in this space, Engine
Yard.”  Tom Mornini,  Engine Yard’s  chief technology officer,
declined to comment on specific talks. San Francisco-based
Engine Yard was started a year before Heroku and has more than
1,500 businesses using its cloud platform, which also is based
on Ruby.  “There’s been extreme interest in all things cloud for the
last 12 months, and it just gets hotter every month,” Mornini
said today in an interview. Ruby is “the only language that you
can develop at the speed of the cloud with.”  Best Buy  Heroku is also located in San Francisco, two miles from
Salesforce’s headquarters. Founded by Orion Henry,  James Lindenbaum  and Adam Wiggins, the company has about 30 employees.
There are more than 106,000 apps running on Heroku, and its
customers include  Best Buy Co. , the world’s largest consumer-
electronics retailer.  Heroku’s initial funding came from Y Combinator, an
incubator for startups. An additional $13 million in financing
was provided by venture capital firms Redpoint Ventures,
Ignition Partners, Baseline Ventures and Harrison Metal Capital.  “The platform is growing incredibly fast,” Byron
Sebastian, CEO of Heroku, said today at the Dreamforce
conference. “Every week, every month we’re working to give
customers new features and developers new features. That’s going
to continue and accelerate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ari Levy  in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
 Nick Turner  in San Francisco at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  