-- San Miguel Rises in Philippines on Share Sale Plan to Boost Public Float
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2010-12-08T05:51:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/san-miguel-rises-in-philippines-on-share-sale-plan-to-boost-public-float.html
San Miguel Corp.  rose to a more than
20-year high in Manila on speculation the stock will continue to
gain after Vice Chairman  Ramon Ang  said the company plans to
sell 1 billion shares next year to raise the public float.  San Miguel , the Philippines’ largest food and drinks maker,
 rose  5.7 percent to 129 pesos at noon in Manila, the highest
close based on prices dating back to January 1990. It jumped the
most since Nov. 19, a day after Ang said the company may sell
about $3 billion of shares in the first quarter for as much as
200 pesos each in what will be the country’s biggest equity
sale.  “The market is speculating that  San Miguel ’s share
price will have to be in the price range that the company wants
to sell its new shares at,” said Paul Balaoing, an analyst at
PCCI Securities Brokers Corp. “The thinking is that it will be
hard to imagine  San Miguel  holding a public share sale at 150
pesos to 200 pesos each if the stock is below that price
range.”  The brewer of  San Miguel  beer plans to accelerate  expansion 
into industries including railways, energy, telecommunications
and mining. The share offer will add to the $3 billion Ang has
 raised  from asset sales since 2008 to fund growth in industries
that he has said have a return on equity triple the 7 percent
the company gets from food and beverages.  Exchange Rules  “The market has the appetite,” Ang told reporters at a
briefing. “We believe we can place that out within the next few
months to comply” with stock exchange rules. The company plans
to sell at least 1 billion common shares, he said.  San Miguel  today listed 65.5 billion pesos worth of
preferred shares offered to existing common shareholders last
year. The issue price was 75 pesos per share and an exchange
ratio of one preferred share for every one common share, with a
dividend rate of 8 percent per annum.  The company may offer more preferred stock because “the
appetite is very strong,” Ang said. Holders of preferred shares
don’t get voting rights.  The foodmaker will buy additional shares in  Petron Corp.  to
eventually own between 68 percent and 90 percent of the
Southeast Asian nation’s largest oil company, Ang said. Petron
plans to spend $2 billion for expansion, he said.  San Miguel  owns 38.2 percent of Petron’s common shares,
according to the oil company’s third-quarter financial
statement. San Miguel on Aug. 31 said it will own 67 percent of
 Petron  after exercising an option to acquire 60 percent of a
shareholder’s outstanding capital on or before Dec. 15.  Petron  gained  1.4 percent to 11.48 pesos, climbing the most
in a week.  San Miguel should be able to sign a deal on an energy
investment overseas in the next 30 days, Ang said, declining to
provide further details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Evans at 
 revans6@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  