-- Sara Lee Call Options Trades Rise on Speculation Food Brand May Be Bought
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-12-08T21:26:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/sara-lee-shares-call-options-advance-on-speculation-over-acquisition.html
Sara Lee Corp.  call-options trading
jumped to more than five times the four-week average on
speculation that the maker of Ball Park hot dogs may be
acquired.  Almost 11,000 calls to buy the stock changed hands, six
times the number of puts to sell. Nearly half of the call volume
was concentrated in December $16 calls. The  shares  slipped 12
cents to $15.59 as of 4 p.m. in New York after gaining as much
as 2.2 percent.  “There are a lot of rumors out there about food companies
potentially being acquired,” said  Steven Williams , an options
strategist at Louis Capital Markets LP in New York. “Most
likely the options trading is just people taking a shot that
it’ll be bought out.”  Mike Cummins , a spokesman for Downers Grove, Illinois-based
Sara Lee, declined to comment on takeover speculation.  Sara Lee, led by interim Chief Executive Officer  Marcel Smits , attracted interest from buyout firms Apollo Global
Management LLC and KKR & Co. earlier this year, people with
knowledge of the situation said in October.  “There’s chatter that Sara Lee accepted an offer from
private-equity firms,” said  Jamie Lissette , founder of the
Hammerstone Group, a Westport, Connecticut-based operator of
online discussion forums for investors. “The December $16 calls
have been exploding with volume.”  Sara Lee Strategy  The company is getting rid of businesses, such as its North
American fresh bread division, to focus on  faster-growing  areas
such as meat and coffee. Smits agreed last month to buy
Brazilian coffee maker Café Damasco SA, the country’s seventh-
largest coffee roaster. Sara Lee’s other food brands include
Ball Park hot dogs and Jimmy Dean breakfast items.  The remaining unsold portion of the household business at
Sara Lee generates about $400 million in annual sales, Cummins
said.  Earlier this week, Sara Lee completed the  sale  of its body
care and European detergents business to Unilever for $1.21
billion euros ($1.6 billion). At the same time, the company said
it has received “significant interest” in the rest of its
household business, which includes shoe-care and Asian cleaning
brands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  