-- Saudi Aramco Wants Five-Fold Rise in Gulf Petrochemical Sales by 2020
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2010-12-08T07:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/saudi-aramco-wants-five-fold-rise-in-gulf-petrochemical-sales-by-2020.html
Gulf petrochemicals producers should
seek to raise their sales by as much as five-fold to $200
billion a year by 2020, Saudi Aramco’s chief executive officer
said today.  “I would like to see a $150 to $200 billion range in
annual sales,”  Khalid Al-Falih , head of the world’s largest
state oil company, told an industry conference in Dubai.
Petrochemicals makers in Gulf Cooperation Council countries will
produce $40 billion in goods this year, exporting most of them,
he said. The GCC is a loose political alliance of six Gulf Arab
nations comprising Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, Oman
and the United Arab Emirates.  GCC producers including Saudi Arabia and the U.A.E. are
diversifying into petrochemicals, steel and other industries to
reduce reliance on income from crude exports and to create jobs.
Access to discounted feedstock gives Middle East-based producers
a competitive advantage over rivals elsewhere. Saudi Arabia 
depends on oil for 85 percent of its revenue.  Saudi Aramco intends to take an “active role” in realizing
the potential of integrating its petrochemical and refinery
operations at the Saudi industrial clusters of Rabigh and
Jubail, al-Falih said.  Sumitomo Chemical Co.  is Aramco’s partner
at Rabigh, and  Dow Chemical Co.  is its partner at the planned
Jubail petrochemical complex.  Aramco and its partners “will soon be announcing further
progress” in their efforts to create the clusters, he said. The
companies intend for these industrial hubs to produce more
advanced downstream chemicals and feedstocks.  Rising Demand  Aramco is expanding output both of refined products and
natural gas to meet rising domestic demand, al-Falih said in
September. The producer may have to develop more challenging
resources such as shale gas and deposits of comparatively sour
reserves of the fuel, he said at the time.  The petrochemicals business is recovering from the global
financial crisis, helped by demand from the automotive,
construction and consumer goods industries and the continued
economic expansion in China. Crude oil is up 12 percent this
year, reaching a high of close to $90 a barrel, after gaining
nearly 80 percent in 2009.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp.  Chief Executive Officer
 Mohamed al-Mady  said on Dec. 6 that the petrochemicals market
will expand in 2011 and 2012 at this year’s 4 percent growth
rate -- or faster -- before accelerating as demand improves.
Sabic, as the company is known, is the world’s biggest
petrochemicals maker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anthony Dipaola  in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net . 