-- Seagate to Raise $850 Million in Debt, Loans After Rejecting Buyout Offers
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2010-12-08T18:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/seagate-technology-plans-to-raise-850-million-after-rejecting-buyout-bids.html
Seagate Technology Plc , the world’s
largest maker of disk drives, plans to raise $850 million in
loans and bonds as it seeks to refinance debt after rejecting
buyouts from TPG Capital and competitor  Western Digital Corp.   The company plans to issue as much as $500 million in
senior notes due 2018 and is talking with banks for a first-lien
credit facility of as much as $350 million, according to a
regulatory filing today.  Seagate turned down an offer of more than $7.5 billion from
TPG and a bid as much as 50 percent more than the Fort Worth-
based private equity firm’s by Western Digital. The Dublin-based
drive-maker with a market value of $7 billion said in a Nov. 29
statement that going private didn’t provide the best option.  “Given the strong debt markets, improving business
conditions and other financing options, Seagate has initiated a
plan to further optimize its capital structure to maximize
shareholder returns,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Luczo  said in the statement.  The company had $2.17 billion of  debt  as of Oct. 1,
maturing between October 2011 and May 2020, with $560 million
due this quarter, according to its latest quarterly report.
Seagate  shares  dropped 12 cents to $15.04 at 12:57 p.m. New York
time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. Since Nov. 29,
the stock  had risen  9.4 percent through yesterday.  Seagate notes may yield 7.75 percent to 8 percent,
according to a person familiar with the offering. The bonds may
be non-callable for four years, said the person, who declined to
be identified because terms aren’t set. Morgan Stanley and Bank
of America Corp. are managing the sale.  Repaying Debt  The notes will be issued through the company’s Seagate HDD
Cayman unit, according to today’s filing.  Seagate said it “intends to use the net proceeds from the
offering of the notes for general corporate purposes, which may
include the repayment, redemption and/or repurchase of a portion
of its outstanding indebtedness.”  The loans will be used for “general corporate and working
capital purposes,” Seagate said. The credit facility will be
secured by all the material assets of the company and its
subsidiaries.  Brian Ziel , a spokesman for Seagate, didn’t return a
message left at his office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Emre Peker  in New York at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
 Boris Korby  in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 