-- SEC Suit Claims Insider Trading of Wimm-Bill-Dann
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-12-08T18:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/sec-sues-oao-wimm-bill-dann-investors-cites-pepsico-deal.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sued unidentified buyers of  Wimm-Bill-Dann Foods OJSC 
securities over what the agency called “highly profitable and
suspicious purchases” before  PepsiCo Inc.  announced it would
buy a 66 percent stake in the Russian dairy and juice producer.  “Unknown purchasers” bought 400,000 American depositary
receipts in the Russian company from Nov. 29 to Dec.1, when
there was no public information available concerning the
contemplated acquisition, the agency said today in a complaint
in federal court in New York.  After PepsiCo’s announcement of the acquisition, the price
of Wimm-Bill-Dann’s ADRs, traded on the New York Stock Exchange,
increased by 28 percent, the SEC said.  “As a result, the unknown purchasers are in a position to
realize total profits of approximately $2.7 million from the
sale of the ADRs,” the SEC said in the complaint.  PepsiCo, based in Purchase, New York, announced Dec. 2 that
it intended to acquire the interest in the company for
$3.8 billion, with U.S. shares priced at $33. That was
32 percent more than the average in the preceding 30 days.  The investors bought Wimm-Bill-Dann’s U.S. shares through
an account at SG Private Banking (Suisse) SA, a subsidiary of
Societe Generale Bank & Trust SA, the U.S. regulators said in
the complaint.  The government asked for court orders to restrain the
defendants from violating U.S. law and for disgorgement of
illicit profits.  The case is SEC v. One or More Unknown Purchasers, 10-cv-
9159, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 