-- Senate Reaches 1-Year Deal to Block 25% Cut to Doctors' Medicare Payments
-- B y   J e f f r e y   Y o u n g
-- 2010-12-08T02:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/senate-reaches-1-year-deal-to-block-25-cut-to-doctors-pay.html
U.S. physicians would get a one-year
reprieve from a 25 percent cut in the fees they receive from
Medicare under an agreement announced by senators.  Democratic and Republican leaders in the Senate agreed to a
$19.2 billion bill that would replace next year’s scheduled
reduction in Medicare payments by freezing the rates, Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, and Senator  Mitch McConnell , the Republican leader from Kentucky, said today in a
 statement .  Passage by the Senate and House before Congress adjourns
for the Christmas holidays would give lawmakers a year to devise
a permanent replacement for the formula that calculates how much
doctors get paid by Medicare, the U.S. government health program
for the elderly and disabled. Every year since 2002, physicians
have faced cuts that were eventually stopped by Congress.  “We put together a longer-term solution to provide the
certainty doctors need and the security patients deserve,”
Senator  Max Baucus , a Democrat of Montana and chairman of the
Finance Committee, said in a statement. Reid, McConnell, Baucus
and Senator  Charles Grassley  of Iowa, the senior Republican on
the Finance Committee, jointly introduced the  legislation .  The new spending required by the legislation would be paid
for by making changes to the health overhaul President  Barack Obama  signed in March.  Tax Credits  The law establishes tax credits in 2014 for health
insurance purchases by low and middle-income individuals and
families. Under the statute, people are required to repay the
federal government if they receive a larger credit than they
should have, such as if their incomes rise during a year. The
statute caps that amount at $250 for an individual and $400 for
a family.  The legislation announced today would require people with
higher incomes to give back more of what they received. A
summary released by the senators didn’t specify how much the
repayments would increase for individuals and families. The
provision would raise $19 billion over 10 years and the rest of
the money would come from savings in other areas of the Medicare
program, according to a  summary  of the bill released by the
Finance Committee.  Cost Controls  Medicare has cost-control formulas designed to reduce total
spending on physician services from year to year by linking
rates to overall economic growth. The scheduled fee cuts have
climbed to the proposed 25 percent in 2011 from the original 4.8
percent reduction planned in 2002. Payments for physician and
clinical services will account for 13 percent of the program’s
$509 billion in expenditures this year, according to an  analysis 
of U.S. government data by the nonprofit Kaiser Family
Foundation, based in Menlo Park, California.  Medicare now covers about 46.6 million Americans, according
to the foundation.  Obama supports postponing the physician fee cut until 2012
and enacting a new method of setting rates, Health and Human
Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius   said  last month.  The American Medical Association, the largest U.S.
physicians’ organization, is among the groups that want Congress
to create an  alternative formula  to replace the current system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Young  in Washington at 
 jyoung89@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 