-- Shakhtar, Arsenal, Roma Claim Last Berths in Champions League Round of 16
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-12-08T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/shakhtar-arsenal-roma-claim-last-champions-league-round-of-16-berths.html
Shakhtar Donetsk, Arsenal and
Roma secured the final three places in the round of 16 in
soccer’s Champions League.  Shakhtar beat Braga 2-0 and Arsenal defeated Partizan
Belgrade 3-1 last night to advance from Group H, while Roma
drew 1-1 with Cluj to progress from Group E.  Bayern Munich beat Basel 3-0, Marseille defeated
Chelsea 1-0, Real Madrid routed Auxerre 4-0, Ajax won 2-0
at AC Milan, and Spartak Moscow beat Zilina 2-1 on the
final night of group play in Europe’s top club competition.  The top two teams in each of the eight groups advanced
to the round of 16. Group winners will be kept apart in the
Dec. 17 draw. The third-place teams in each group enter the
second-tier Europa League.  Group H was the only section with both places in the
knockout stages up for grabs entering last night’s play.  Shakhtar claimed the top spot with its home win over
Braga on goals from  Razvan Rat  and Luiz Adriano.  Theo Walcott  and  Samir Nasri  scored four minutes apart
in the second half as Arsenal clinched second place and
dropped Braga into the Europa League.  Robin van Persie  got
Arsenal’s first goal after 30 minutes from the penalty
spot.  Roma’s draw at Cluj was enough to secure second place
in Group E.  Franck Ribery  scored two goals to lead group
winner Bayern Munich, last year’s runner-up, over Basel,
which finished third.  Brandao Sinks Chelsea  Evanilson Brandao scored with nine minutes remaining
to give Marseille the win over Chelsea in a matchup of
qualified teams from Group F. The loss denied Chelsea the
chance to become the fifth team to win all six of its
Champions League group matches.  Spartak Moscow finished third in the group after its
win at Zilina, which joins Partizan Belgrade as the only
teams to lose all six of their group matches.  Karim Benzema  scored a hat trick to lead nine-time
champion Real Madrid, which had already clinched top spot
in Group G, past Auxerre. Ajax beat out Auxerre for third
place with its victory over seven-time winner AC Milan in
Italy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 