-- Greenland to Spend $4.5 Billion on World's Third-Tallest Building in Wuhan
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-08T04:51:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/shanghai-greenland-to-develop-world-s-third-tallest-building-in-wuhan.html
Shanghai Greenland Group  said it will
invest 30 billion yuan ($4.5 billion) to develop the world’s
third-tallest building in Wuhan and reported revenue that will
help rival the nation’s biggest publicly traded developer.  The company, set up in 1992 after former Chinese leader
Deng Xiaoping’s historic tour of southern provinces, will build
the 606-meter (1,988-foot) Wuhan Greenland Center in the central
Chinese city, it said today. The 3 million-square-meter (32
million-square-foot) property will include luxury hotels and
apartments, and a conference center when it’s completed in five
years, it said.  “Wuhan is a very important city in central China,”
Chairman and President Zhang Yuliang said in an interview in
Wuhan, using a Chinese metaphor to compare the city with the
head of a dragon. “It’s transiting from a regional center to an
international city -- it has a huge market potential and it’s
necessary to construct a landmark building here.”  China is set to become the world’s second-largest economy
this year, Vice President Xi Jinping said last month, and its
expansion of 9.6 percent in the third quarter is more than three
times the pace of growth in the U.S., helping to drive more
investments in the fastest-growing major economy.  Wuhan was ranked by ECA International this month as Asia’s
25th most expensive city for expatriates, beating locations
including Mumbai and Kuala Lumpur.  ‘Moving Inland’  “Chinese developers are moving inland and into second-tier
cities because there are fewer sites left in major cities,”
said Fu Qi, an analyst at China Real Estate Information Corp.,
which provides property data and consulting services. “In
inland cities, the best thing is to build landmark buildings
because they help build closer ties with local governments.”  The new building in Wuhan, located about 900 kilometers
(559 miles) west of Shanghai, will be higher than the 492-meter
World Financial Center in Shanghai, now the tallest tower in
China. It will only be dwarfed by the 632-meter Shanghai Tower,
scheduled to be completed in 2014, and the  Burj Khalifa  in Dubai,
the world’s tallest at 828 meters.  Greenland has no immediate plans for an initial public
offering and is not considering a listing in Hong Kong, Zhang
said.  “We’re in no rush to go public; we’ll be listed eventually
but we don’t have a timetable for that,” he said. “We need to
decide what’s best as the model for our expansion.”  China Vanke  The Shanghai-based, government-controlled developer, which
has properties in 43 Chinese cities across 22 provinces, said it
expects revenue to exceed 120 billion yuan this year, helping it
rival  China Vanke Co.   Vanke, China’s biggest listed developer, said last week its
 revenue  reached 100.1 billion yuan as of Dec. 1, meeting a
target it had set for 2014. The Shenzhen-based company said it
sold properties worth 12.87 billion yuan in November, more than
double its sales for the same period in 2009.  Greenland’s sales exceeded 110 billion yuan in the first 11
months of the year, Zhang said. Full-year revenue from the real
estate business will reach 70 billion yuan, he said.  Greenland and Vanke’s sales projections show developers are
still selling more homes even after the government this year
suspended mortgages for third-home purchases, pledged to speed
up trials of property taxes and raised interest rates in October
for the first time since 2007.  Rising Home Prices  China’s  property prices  rose 8.6 percent in October from
the same period a year earlier, the statistics bureau said on
Nov. 10. While the increase was the slowest in 10 months, it was
the 17th month of gains for housing values in the nation, data
from the bureau showed. The November housing data is expected as
early as Dec. 10.  SouFun Holdings Ltd., the country’s biggest real-estate
website owner, said home prices in 100 cities it monitors
advanced 0.8 percent in November from October, gaining for a
second month even as the central bank raised rates.  Greenland’s investments in offices and other non-
residential properties may have helped offset the effects from
the government’s curbs, said China Real Estate Information’s Fu.  “Greenland’s good sales might also be due to its strategy
of moving more toward commercial property,” Fu said.  -- Bonnie Cao . Editors:  Linus Chua ,  Andreea Papuc   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bonnie Cao  in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  