-- Siam Cement to Sell $1.1 Billion Stake in PTT Chemical to Fund Expansion
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2010-12-08T05:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/siam-cement-to-sell-1-1-billion-stake-in-ptt-chemical-to-fund-expansion.html
Siam Cement Pcl  said it will sell a
15.6 percent stake in  PTT Chemical Pcl  for 33 billion baht ($1.1
billion) as Thailand’s third-biggest publicly traded company by
market value seeks funds for domestic and overseas expansion.  Siam Cement will sell 236 million shares of PTT Chemical at
140 baht, booking a gain of about 8.8 billion baht in the fourth
quarter, the company said in a regulatory filing today. That was
9 percent less than PTT Chemical’s closing price yesterday.  Siam Cement,  controlled  by  King Bhumibol Adulyadej ’s asset
management arm, has built new plants and bought rivals in
countries including Vietnam, Cambodia and Malaysia to bolster
growth. Demand for Siam Cement’s petrochemicals, paper and
cement has increased as economic growth in China and the rest of
Asia spurs sales of cars, electrical appliances and other
consumer products.  “The proceeds will provide Siam Cement financial resources
to accelerate its expansion and acquisition in the region,”
 Rattana Leenutaphong , an analyst at IV Global Securities Pcl in
Bangkok, said by phone today. Siam Cement selling PTT Chemical
stock at a discount is “acceptable” given the large number of
shares, said Rattana. She has a “buy” recommendation on Siam
Cement.  Siam Cement’s  shares  fell 1.4 percent to 342 baht as of
12:24 p.m. in Bangkok. PTT Chemical’s  stock  dropped as much as
6.2 percent, the biggest intraday drop since Sept. 2, and traded
at 146.5 baht.  Domestic Sale  The divestment is the biggest domestic sale since Siam
Commercial Bank Pcl sold a $1.45 billion stake in Singburi Sugar
Ltd. in March 2002, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Earlier this year, Thanachart Bank Pcl agreed to pay about 1
billion baht for the Bank of Thailand’s 48 percent share in Siam
City Bank Pcl.  Siam Cement will hold 67 million shares, or 4.42 percent
stake, of PTT Chemical after the sale, according to the filing.
Siam Cement also has its own petrochemical plant, competing with
PTT Chemical.  “This sale will enhance SCC’s ability to pursue both
regional and domestic business expansion in its core
businesses,” President  Kan Trakulhoon  said in a statement to
the stock exchange today. The board approved the stake sale
because Siam Cement is a minority shareholder in PTT Chemical
and isn’t involved in its management, Kan said.  Siam Cement first invested in National Petrochemical Pcl in
1984 and Thai Olefins Pcl in 1989, according to the statement.
The companies then combined in 2005 to become PTT Chemical, the
nation’s biggest petrochemical company by market value.  Phatra Securities Pcl, Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill
Lynch unit, UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG managed the share
sale for Siam Cement.  -- Editors:  Vipin V. Nair ,  Garry Smith .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anuchit Nguyen  in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  