-- Simon Property May End Interest in Buying U.K. Mall Owner Capital Shopping
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2010-12-08T10:17:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/simon-property-may-end-interest-in-buying-u-k-mall-owner-capital-shopping.html
Simon Property Group Inc. , the
largest U.S. mall owner, will end its interest in buying  Capital
Shopping Centres Group Plc  if the U.K. company doesn’t provide
information necessary to evaluate a bid. Capital Shopping fell
as much as 4.7 percent in London trading.  “By declining to provide us with the requested limited due
diligence information, you have constrained the exploration of
an opportunity to benefit your shareholders,” Simon said in a
letter to Capital Shopping included in a statement today.  Simon, based in Indianapolis, said last month it was
considering an unspecified cash bid worth more than Capital
Shopping’s net assets.  Capital Shopping  rejected a request from
Simon to delay selling shares and buying the Trafford Centre
mall in northwest England, a move that would have given the U.S.
company more time to prepare an offer.  “I think it’s a done deal,”  Graham Jones , an analyst at
Arbuthnot Securities Ltd., said today by telephone. “Capital
Shopping will press ahead and Simon will disappear off the
share register.” Jones doesn’t have a rating on the stock.  Capital Shopping shares had the biggest decline in two
weeks. They were down 15.6 pence, or 3.8 percent, at 392.4 pence
at 9.59 a.m., reducing the company’s market value to 2.7 billion
pounds ($4.2 billion).  Record-Breaking Deal  Michael Sandler , a spokesman for Capital Shopping, declined
to comment. In a Nov. 24 statement, the company announced a plan
to buy the Trafford Centre from closely held  Peel Group  for 1.6
billion pounds in stock and assumed debt. The total purchase
price would be the highest ever paid for a British mall.  “If the proposed Trafford Centre acquisition is approved,
we would need to consider liquidating our position in CSC,”
Simon said in its letter. The company has a 5.1 percent  stake  in
London-based Capital Shopping, Britain’s biggest mall owner.  Simon said the U.K. company is “substantially overpaying”
for the mall in a transaction that would give Peel a stake of as
much as 25 percent in Capital Shopping. Investors are scheduled
to vote on whether to approve the transaction on Dec. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Woodifield  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 