-- Climate Pact ‘Unrealistic,’ Former U.S. Officials Say
-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 2010-12-09T03:54:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/single-overarching-climate-pact-unrealistic-former-u-s-officials-say.html
A single, legally binding global
climate treaty is impossible to craft and the United Nations
should give up trying, focusing instead on measures to reduce
global warming, former U.S. climate negotiators said.  “It’s completely unrealistic to continue talking about a
single, overarching treaty at least for the next 15 or 20
years,”  Tim Wirth , a lead U.S. negotiator at the Kyoto Climate
Conference in 1997, said in an interview in Cancun, Mexico,
where 193 countries are debating a new accord to cut global
greenhouse-gas emissions.  Talks in Cancun remain stuck on the same raft of issues
that killed negotiations last year in Copenhagen, where
countries scrapped a UN deadline for a new treaty. Instead,
major emitters including the U.S. and China forged a political
accord aimed at curbing greenhouse gases by 2020.  Expectations for a new treaty out of Copenhagen doomed the
summit to be perceived as a failure, according to  Eileen Claussen , who worked on UN climate talks under U.S. President
Bill Clinton. The same risk exists now as negotiators try to lay
groundwork for a climate deal.  “We have to put aside this idea that we will have this one
magical treaty,” said Claussen, now president of the Pew Center
on Global Climate Change. “That’s not going to happen for some
time and people need to start communicating and understanding
that reality.”  The remarks in interviews at this week’s UN climate
conference in Cancun, Mexico, are the most vocal skepticism yet
from U.S. officials involved in the effort to restrain global
warming. While opponents of a global climate treaty have said it
wouldn’t pass in the U.S. Senate, administration officials past
and present until now remained supportive of the process.  With this year’s climate conference involving 6,164
diplomats from 193 nations bogging down, Claussen and Wirth say
the UN should reduce the expectations of European Union nations
and developing countries that are lobbying hardest for a treaty.  U.S. lead negotiator  Todd Stern  said last week in Cancun
that the prospects for a legally binding agreement don’t look
good anytime soon. The U.S. says it will only enter such a pact
if other major emitters, including emerging big economies such
as China, do the same.  “It’s a question of trying to see what can be done in the
real world,” Stern said at a Dec. 3 briefing in Cancun. “If
it’s legally binding mitigation commitments for the U.S. and
Europe and Japan and everybody else, there would need to be
legally binding mitigation commitments for China and India and
Brazil and so forth. I just don’t think that we are there yet.”  Chinese negotiators in Cancun are stressing their long-held
position that only developed nations’ emissions-reduction
targets be internationally legally binding. China says its
actions to curb greenhouse gases must remain “voluntary” and
“autonomous.”  Meanwhile, India’s environment minister  Jairam Ramesh  says
an international agreement is “not anywhere on the horizon.”  “Action has to be domestic,” he said in an interview in
New Delhi. “That’s what the last 15 months has shown.”  Companies Concerned  Corporate chief executive officers also are weighing in.  Coca-Cola Co.  CEO  Muhtar Kent  said multiple international
accords, not a single treaty, are needed to fight climate
change.  “I don’t think one treaty can work for the world,” Kent,
58, said in a Nov. 29 interview in Cancun.  Duke Energy Corp. CEO  Jim Rogers , also in Cancun last week,
said it’s unclear whether the UN process can achieve its goal of
a new climate deal.  “It’s an open question about whether or not this framework
leads us to that outcome,” he said.  Branson’s View  Richard Branson , founder of Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd.,
said one global treaty to fight climate change and protect the
planet is ideal.  “But if it’s not going to happen you have to be pragmatic
and think of other alternatives,” Branson said in an interview
in Cancun last week.  A key setback in the global climate talks is lack of U.S.
legislation at home, which limits what the Obama administration
can agree to in the negotiations.  Earlier this year, President  Barack Obama ’s climate change
bill setting out steps to cut fossil fuel emissions blamed for
global warming stalled in the Senate. Then Republicans won
control of the House of Representatives and made gains in the
Senate in November elections from Obama’s Democrats.  Obama now says climate legislation probably can’t win
congressional approval until 2013 at the earliest. Gambia’s
climate envoy,  Pa Ousman Jarju , last week in Cancun called the
U.S. a “wounded elephant.”  “We know there’s nothing they can push here because of
their domestic circumstances,” he said.  Skeptical Congress  More Republicans and climate skeptics in Congress also
means it would be more difficult to get Senate ratification of a
new treaty.  “It will be hard to impossible to deliver Senate
ratification,”  Alden Meyer , who has attended the UN climate
talks for the Union of Concerned Scientists for more than a
decade, said in an interview.  Shin Kicking  Few current negotiators would go on the record saying a
single treaty is too ambitious. Some, looking ahead to next
year’s talks in South Africa, say a binding treaty may not be
desirable at the moment.  “Of course getting to a legally binding treaty depends on
the substance,” Brazil’s climate negotiator Luiz Alberto
Figueiredo Machado said at a briefing on Dec. 7. “If we have a
very weak result, we are not in favor of crystallizing that as
the international response to climate change.”  Wirth said the biggest issue is how to dole out
responsibilities between industrial nations and developing ones
for emissions cuts. While the U.S. is the world’s biggest
economy and most able to absorb the cost of limiting emissions,
China’s is now the world’s biggest polluter, and India is
catching up.  The best way forward is strengthening market measures that
give incentives for cleaner industry, tightening regulations on
polluters and forging more regional agreements to cut emissions,
Wirth said.  “The U.S. and Chinese leadership should stand up and say
this together,” said Wirth, also a former U.S. Senator who now
heads the UN Foundation, a Washington-based organization backed
by billionaire  Ted Turner  to assist the work of the United
Nations. “It’s the most natural alliance. They should be allies
in this rather than kicking each other in the shin.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kim Chipman  in Cancun, Mexico at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  