-- LCD-Panel Makers Fined $649 Million by European Union for Price Fixing
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2010-12-08T15:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/six-lcd-panel-makers-fined-649-million-by-european-union-for-price-fixing.html
LG Display Co.  and  Chi Mei
Optoelectronics Corp.  were among Asian companies fined 648.9
million euros ($860 million) by the European Union for fixing
prices of liquid-crystal display panels.  “Foreign companies, like European ones, have an obligation
to respect competition rules when they do business in Europe,”
EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  told reporters in
Brussels today. South Korea’s  Samsung Electronics Co. , the
world’s largest LCD maker, wasn’t fined because it informed on
the cartel and provided “valuable information,” Almunia said.  The LCD panels are the main component of thin, flat
monitors used in televisions, computer monitors and notebooks.
The companies sold panels in Europe worth about 7 billion euros
during the cartel, which spanned from October 2001 to February
2006, the EU said. The fine doesn’t cover smaller screens used
for handhelds or mobile phones.  Chi Mei, which  merged  with Innolux Display Corp. in March
to form  Chimei Innolux Corp. , received the largest penalty of
300 million euros. LG Display of South Korea, the second-biggest
panel maker, was fined 215 million euros. Taiwan’s  AU Optronics
Corp.  must pay a financial penalty of 116.8 million euros.
 Chunghwa Picture Tubes Ltd.  of Taiwan was fined 9 million euros
and  HannStar Display Corp. , also based in Taiwan, was fined 8.1
million euros.  Hotel Meetings  The  six manufacturers  in the cartel met around 60 times,
usually every month in hotels in Taiwan to agree prices,
including price ranges and minimum prices and to swap
information on future production plans and capacity, the
commission said.  “The fact that the cartel meetings took place outside the
EU is no excuse,” Almunia told reporters. “All of the
discussions were clearly illegal under our EU competition rules.
The evidence shows that the participants were aware of the
illegality of their conduct.”  AU Optronics “expects to appeal the decision to the
General Court in Luxembourg and to vigorously defend itself,”
spokeswoman Yawen Hsiao said in an e-mailed statement, referring
to the EU’s Luxembourg-based tribunal, which considers
challenges to antitrust rulings.  Taiwan Headquarters  LG Display’s spokesman Bang-Soo Lee and  James Chung , a
spokesman for Samsung Electronics, didn’t immediately respond
to calls and e-mails to their Seoul offices seeking comment
outside normal business hours.  Eddie Chen , a spokesman for
Chimei Innolux, James Wu, a spokesman for Chunghwa, and Arthur
Lu, a spokesman for HannStar didn’t respond to out-of-hours
calls and e-mails to their Taiwanese headquarters.  The commission, which can fine companies as much as 10
percent of sales, considers a company’s revenue in the last year
before a cartel ends, and the seriousness, duration and
geographic scope of the cartel when setting its penalties.  Chi Mei, Taiwan’s biggest maker of LCDs used in
televisions, computers and mobile phones, pleaded guilty to U.S.
antitrust charges last year and agreed to pay $220 million in
fines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 