-- Solar, Wind Companies Say Jobs Will Be Lost If U.S. Grants End This Month
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2010-12-08T18:41:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/solar-wind-companies-say-jobs-will-be-lost-if-u-s-grants-end.html
Jobs will be cut in the solar and
wind industries unless a U.S. tax-grant program that companies
have relied on is extended, renewable-energy advocates said.  Retention of the  1603 program , which gives developers
grants equal to one-third of a project’s value, wasn’t included
in the tax package negotiated by President  Barack Obama  and
Republicans in Congress. The program, now scheduled to expire on
Dec. 31, was added to last year’s stimulus act to help companies
unable to get financing during the financial crisis.  The grant program is “the most important policy for
continuing growth of the renewable-energy industry in the United
States,”  Rhone Resch , president and chief executive officer of
the  Solar Energy Industries Association , said today on a
conference call with reporters.  A one-year extension would cost $1.36 billion over 10
years, according to the congressional Joint Committee on
Taxation. Senator  Maria Cantwell , a Washington Democrat, is
among lawmakers who urged congressional leaders to extend the
grants.  While companies can still get production and investment tax
credits that they can sell to investors, Resch said the market
for the credits has declined in the economic slump. Seven
companies buy the tax breaks on a secondary tax-equity market,
compared with 27 before the economy soured, Resch said.  More than $5.5 billion in grants had gone to companies as
of November, supporting more than $18 billion in clean-energy
development, according to the solar-industry trade group.  The industry added 1,000 megawatts of capacity in 2010, up
from 470 megawatts in 2009, Resch said. With the grants, the
solar industry would add 2,000 megawatts in 2011 compared with
800 megawatts if the program expires, Resch said.  Denise Bode , CEO of the American Wind Energy Association,
said “tens of thousands of jobs” are at risk.  The wind industry would create 20,000 new jobs next year if
the grants are extended, renewable-energy groups said in a
letter yesterday to congressional leaders. The workforce may
contract by 25 percent without them, the groups said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 