-- Marcus Says Investments by Companies `Extremely' Subdued, Hurting Recovery
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-12-08T11:50:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/south-africa-s-marcus-says-economy-to-expand-by-less-than-3-in-2010.html
South African private sector
investment is “extremely subdued,” undermining the recovery in
Africa’s biggest economy, central bank Governor  Gill Marcus 
said.  Economic growth has been “disappointing” and will
probably average below 3 percent in 2010, Marcus said at the
bank’s annual general meeting in Pretoria today.  Weak global demand and the rand’s 11 percent gain against
the dollar since June has hampered the recovery from last year’s
recession, adding to job losses in a country where one in four
are unemployed. The Reserve Bank has cut its benchmark  interest
rate  three times this year to 5.5 percent, the lowest level in
30 years, to help spur consumer spending.  “The recovery has been fragile, with disappointing growth
despite the boost from the FIFA World Cup” that was hosted by
South Africa in June and July, Marcus said. “Although household
consumption expenditure is showing signs of recovery, growth in
private sector gross domestic capital formation remains
extremely subdued.”  With South Africa selling about a third of its exports to
Europe, the fiscal austerity programs in countries such as the
U.K. and Germany are of “particular concern” for the outlook,
Marcus said. Expansion in the U.S. will probably also remain
“low for longer,” she said.  Currency Reserves  Near-zero interest rates in Japan, the U.S. and the euro-
region have fuelled demand for high-yielding assets in emerging
markets such as South Africa. While that’s allowed the central
bank to increase foreign currency reserves to a record, reserves
are “still relatively low compared to other emerging-market
countries,” Marcus said.  Gross reserves  were $43.4 billion at the end of November,
compared with $40.5 billion a year earlier, according to central
bank data. The Reserve Bank also holds 4 million ounces of gold,
valued at $5.5 billion, Deputy Governor  Daniel Mminele  said at
the meeting.  South Africa’s central bank is one of a few in the world
that has private shareholders, who have limited voting powers
and can’t influence monetary policy. Shareholders elect seven of
the 14 directors of the board.  The bank and the National Treasury proposed laws this year
to protect the independence of the bank, which they said would
prevent a small group of shareholders from disrupting its
operations. Some shareholders have been lobbying for the bank to
change its policy of a fixed dividend of 10 cents per share and
to pay a capital distribution.  Marcus said the central bank won’t agree to those demands.  “No legal authority or basis exists for any capital
distribution to shareholders whatsoever,” Marcus said. “This
demand should not be entertained at all.”  Michael Duerr, a German national who disrupted last year’s
annual general meeting chaired by former Governor  Tito Mboweni ,
wasn’t present at the Reserve Bank today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 