-- Southwest Loses On-Time `Bragging Rights' as 2010 Ranking Slips
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2010-12-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/southwest-loses-on-time-bragging-rights-as-2010-ranking-slips.html
Southwest Airlines Co. , the U.S.
industry leader in on-time arrivals since record-keeping began
in 1987, finds itself in an unprecedented spot this year: eighth
place.  Second a year ago, Southwest is slipping as it expands at
congested airports such as New York’s LaGuardia while  US Airways
Group Inc. ,  Alaska Air Group Inc.  and other rivals improve their
performance, according to  federal data  released yesterday for
the 12 months ended in October.  The 2010 slide marks a blow for the carrier with the best
cumulative rating since the U.S. started tracking results 23
years ago. With the drop, Southwest loses the “corporate
prestige” from being at or near the top of its  peers , said
 Steve Martin , senior vice president at InterVistas Consulting in
Bethesda, Maryland.  “They would like to be able to deliver good news to their
passengers that ‘the rest of the industry is still on the rocks,
but we’re getting you there on time,’” Martin said. “There’s a
certain amount of bragging rights that are involved.”  Southwest, which painted a plane in 1997 in partial tribute
to its timeliness, finished among the top four airlines for the
seven consecutive years before its current decline. The Dallas-
based carrier is among eight in the U.S. for which the
Transportation Department has maintained records since 1987.  Falling to eighth place “must bother them immensely,”
said  Jay Sorensen , president of consultant Ideaworks in
Shorewood, Wisconsin. “This obviously is one of the top three
things on the agenda at senior staff meetings.”  Alone Among Peers  Southwest, the biggest U.S. discount carrier, was alone
among major airlines in posting a drop in on-time performance in
the 12 months ended in October, falling to 81 percent from 82.1
percent on a year-over-year basis. Its all-time rate is 81.9
percent.  “It is a priority for us to make improvements,” said
 Chris Mainz , a Southwest spokesman. “We have actually added
more complexity to our network, along with record loads, and
have not seen a dramatic decrease in performance.”  While Southwest has kept on-time arrivals at more than 80
percent for nine consecutive years, rivals’ gains have helped
put the industry on course for its most punctual year since
2003. Airlines cut flights during the recession, helping ease
airport congestion.  United Continental Holdings Inc. , Delta Air Lines Inc.,  AMR
Corp. ’s American Airlines, JetBlue Airways Corp. and  AirTran
Holdings Inc. , which Southwest is acquiring, are among carriers
that joined US Airways and Alaska in improving on-time arrival
rates in the 12 months ended in October.  Five-Year Run  Southwest for at least five years in the 1990s had the best
on-time performance, best baggage handling and fewest customer
complaints of all major airlines on an annual basis. After
topping all three categories in 1992, the airline said it was
the first sweep ever and gave itself a “Triple Crown” award.  In 1997, Southwest unveiled a  Boeing Co.  737 dubbed
“Triple Crown One,” with a paint scheme that included a
depiction of a ribbon holding a large, heart-shaped medal
bearing a golden No. 1. That aircraft still flies, Mainz said.  “Southwest Airlines said, we are going to get you there on
time,”  Herb Kelleher , then the carrier’s chairman,  told  a
congressional panel in 2008. “And we did.”  Southwest’s on-time performance since then has been
challenged by record load factors, or the average number of
seats filled on its planes, Mainz said. That figure hovered in a
range of 65 percent to 70 percent from 2000 through 2005, and
expanded to 79.1 percent through October of this year.  Turn Times  Jets that once sat idle at airport gates for only 20
minutes between flights helped Southwest make efficiency gains
on competitors in years past. That so-called turn time has
swelled to 30 minutes, Mainz said.  “When you do carry more people you are going to require
more time to process those flights,” said Sorensen, the
consultant. “As Southwest ages, it will pick up more and more
of the characteristics of an older airline. It’s really
unavoidable.”  While Chief Executive Officer  Gary Kelly  has kept alive an
annual  profit streak  dating to 1973, the shares’ 2010 gain of 13
percent before today trailed the 26 percent advance for the
 Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index . The shares fell 6 cents to $12.95
yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading .  Competing at Hubs  Kelly, who took the job in 2004, has been willing to trade
some of the scheduling advantages of smaller, secondary airports
such as Chicago’s Midway to compete at hubs and win more
passengers.  In 2007, Southwest said it would return to San Francisco
International, followed by the decision a year later to start
flights at LaGuardia. In March, it adds service to Newark’s
Liberty International. LaGuardia, Newark and San Francisco had
the worst on-time performance among major airports through
October, according to the Bureau of Transportation Statistics.  “LaGuardia is a cesspool of late flights,” Sorensen said.  Southwest remains the only U.S. carrier that doesn’t charge
for a first or second checked bag, a policy that Kelly says has
helped add traffic. Much of its no-frills service, such as a
lack of onboard videos or seat-back televisions, also has
remained in place.  “Southwest has other things that appeal to travelers that
makes them grow faster than others,” said  David Swierenga ,
president of aviation consultant AeroEcon in Round Rock, Texas.
“Travelers like to have things on time, but that’s not the
foremost consideration when you’re traveling Southwest.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net .
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  