-- South Sudan Referendum Body Says it Wants Vote Delayed by `A Few Days'
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2010-12-08T13:29:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/south-sudan-referendum-body-says-it-wants-vote-delayed-by-a-few-days-.html
The commission organizing the Jan. 9
Southern Sudan independence referendum has requested a delay of
“a few days” to allow more time for objections and appeals
regarding the registration of voters.  “We need more time to improve the referendum process,”
the chairman of the commission, Mohamed Ibrahim Khalil, told
reporters today in the capital, Khartoum. He said the reasons
for seeking the postponement are “technical,” not political.  The Sudan People’s Liberation Movement, the former rebel
group that now governs semi-autonomous Southern Sudan, have
rejected any delays in the referendum, in which the oil-
producing region will decide whether to split from Sudan and
form Africa’s newest nation. Postponing the vote would
“risk a return to instability and violence of a massive
scale,” Southern Sudan’s president, Salva Kiir, said on Sept.
22.  The vote is the climax of a 2005 peace accord that ended a
two-decade civil war between the nation’s Muslim north and the
oil-producing south, where Christianity and traditional beliefs
dominate. About 2 million people died in the conflict and more
than 4 million were displaced.  Preparations for the balloting are running behind schedule.
The 24-day registration period, which ends today, is set to
produce the initial voters’ roll by Dec. 10, instead of by the
end of August as required by the referendum law.  Referendum committees have five days to assess objections
to that list, according to a schedule from the commission.
Appeals challenging those objections will be handled by courts
in a five-day period, with the final list due to be published on
Jan. 8, one day before the vote.  Timetable Tight  With the timetable so tight, “if we don’t request a delay
it would be strange,” Khalil said. If the two parties to the
peace accord, the SPLM and President  Umar al-Bashir ’s
National Congress Party, don’t agree to postpone the vote, then
“we will do what we can with the time available,” the
commission chairman said.  The majority of Southern Sudanese favor independence,
according to an Oct. 20 study by the Washington-based  National
Democratic Institute , based on 63 focus groups surveyed in 48
locations from Feb. 5 to March 16. The government in Khartoum is
campaigning for unity.  More than 3 million people had registered in the southern
region to vote in the referendum as of yesterday, Khalil said.
More than 100,000 southerners registered in the country’s north
and at least 25,000 expatriate southerners registered in the
eight nations that have the highest concentration of Southern
Sudanese, the spokesman for the commission, George Maker, told
reporters today in Khartoum.  Oil Production  Southern Sudan accounts for as much as 80 percent of
Sudan’s 490,000 barrels of daily oil production. Sudan is sub-
Saharan Africa’s third-largest producer, according to the BP
Statistical Review of World Energy.  Also scheduled for Jan. 9 is a vote on whether the disputed
border region of Abyei will join the north or south. The SPLM
and the National Congress Party have failed to agree over who
has the right to vote on Abyei.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at or  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 