-- Manufacturing Jump to Boost Prospects for January Rate Rise: India Credit
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2010-12-09T07:18:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/surge-in-manufacturing-may-spur-increase-in-interest-rates-india-credit.html
India’s industrial production is
likely to expand at the fastest pace in three months, prompting
JPMorgan Chase & Co. to predict the central bank may resume
raising interest rates as early as next month to curb inflation.  Factory, utilities and mines output probably rose 8.5
percent in October from a year earlier after a 4.4 percent
increase in September, according to the median estimate of 29
economists in a Bloomberg survey before a statistics office
report tomorrow. This week Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee 
raised the government’s economic growth forecast for the current
fiscal year to 9.1 percent, the most in three years.  India’s  economy  may expand more than China’s in the next
10 years if the world’s second-most populous nation lifts curbs
on foreign investment and boosts spending on roads and bridges,
New York University Professor  Nouriel Roubini , who predicted the
global financial crisis, said last week. The rupee has advanced
1.7 percent this month, the second-best performance among Asia’s
10-most traded currencies, as the difference in yields between
Indian debt due in a decade and 10-year Treasuries widened to
486 basis points, or 4.86 percentage point, from 374 on Jan. 1.  “Indian government bonds continue to remain attractive due
to interest-rate differentials,”  Sajjid Chinoy , a Mumbai-based
economist with JPMorgan, said yesterday. “The rate pause is
temporary and the RBI will start raising rates as early as the
first quarter if inflation continues to remain sticky and above
its comfort zone.”  The yield on the 10-year government bond has risen 14 basis
points to 8.11 percent since Nov. 2, when the central bank
raised rates for the sixth time this year. The RBI will meet to
decide borrowing costs on Dec. 16 and Jan. 25.  Repurchase Rate  On Nov. 2 the Reserve Bank of India increased the benchmark
repurchase rate by a quarter percentage point to 6.25 percent
and the reverse-repurchase rate to 5.25 percent. Inflation
continues to remain above the central bank’s “tolerance
level,” Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  said in Kolkata yesterday.
The central bank said it may not raise borrowing costs for the
next three months.  Ten of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News expect the
central bank to raise borrowing costs by the end of March, while
the rest predict no change for the period. Three expect rate
increases at the Jan. 25 meeting.  “Immediate future rate action is unlikely barring some
shocks,” Subbarao said on Nov. 2. “The question is, what is
the immediate future? I would believe it is three months.”  Higher output, as evidenced by record sales of  Maruti
Suzuki India Ltd.  cars and more lending by State Bank of India
Ltd., suggests strong domestic consumer demand. The nation’s
service industry expanded at the quickest pace in four months in
November, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said Dec. 3.
Exports in November jumped 26.8 percent to $18.9 billion.  ‘Growth Momentum’  “The growth momentum in the industrial and consumption
sectors continues to be strong and that may help achieve a
higher growth,”  Deepali Bhargava , a strategist at ING Groep NV
in Mumbai, said yesterday. “Growth resurgence and underlying
inflationary pressures will likely prompt the RBI to raise rates
in the first quarter next year.”  Faster economic gains and wider interest-rate differentials
have attracted $9.5 billion into  rupee debt  and $29.6 billion
into stocks, resulting in the rupee appreciating by 3.2 percent
this year to 45.07.  “Managing the risks around inflation, capital flows and
fragile recovery in advanced economies will be the key near-term
policy challenges,”  Dharmakirti Joshi , a Mumbai-based economist
at Crisil Ltd., the Indian unit of Standard & Poor’s, said
yesterday.  Interest-Rate Swaps  Since the first rate increase this year on March 19, the
spread between India’s debt due in a decade and 10-year
Treasuries has widened 66 basis points to 486 today. The gap,
which has averaged 317 in the past decade, reached a 10-year
high of 567 on Oct. 20.  The cost of fixing rupee borrowing costs for 12 months in
the interest-rate swap market surged 1.9 percentage points this
year to 6.96 percent, as investors increased bets Subbarao will
raise rates, Bloomberg data show. The swap rate rose 14 basis
points this month.  Prices of five-year credit-default swaps used to protect
against losses on the debt of India’s largest lenders fell in
the past three months, according to data provider CMA. Swap
prices dropped 20 basis points for State Bank of India, the
nation’s largest lender, and 35 basis points for ICICI Bank
Ltd., the country’s second-biggest lender.  Growth Projections  Local-currency debt returned 4.1 percent in 2010, according
to indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc, as the Reserve Bank
raised borrowing costs by 150 basis points. Investors in China
earned 1.3 percent, the least in the region, the indexes show.  India’s $1.3 trillion economy expanded 8.9 percent for a
second straight quarter in July to September. India’s finance
ministry said on Dec. 7 the economy may expand as much as 9.1
percent compared with an earlier forecast of 8.25 to 8.75
percent.  “We are looking at revising our growth estimate upwards
given the strong demand in the economy,” Rajeev Malik, an
economist at CLSA Asia Pacific Markets said on Dec. 7. “We
think the RBI will have to come back to raise rates in January
to keep a lid on inflation fueled by faster growth and higher
global commodity prices.”  Not Ideal  The consumer-price inflation rate is running close to 10
percent, the most among the G-20 countries after Argentina,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The wholesale-price
inflation rose 8.58 percent in October, which according to
Finance Minister Mukherjee is double the ideal level of 4
percent to 5 percent. Food inflation was 8.69 percent in the
week to Nov. 27, compared with 8.60 percent in the previous
week, a government report showed today.  ING raised its growth forecast for India to 8.7 percent
from 8.4 percent after the Nov. 30 announcement. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley said there’s a chance that growth
may exceed their 8.5 percent forecasts.  “We are bullish on government bonds given the higher yield
opportunity due to the higher rate differential,” Navneet
Munot, who oversees $8.5 billion as chief investment officer at
Mumbai-based SBI Funds Management Pvt., said yesterday. “The
central bank will have to come back to consider rate increases
early next year as higher commodity prices add to inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  