-- Brown Urges European Leaders to Coordinate Action, `Surprise the Markets'
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a
-- 2010-12-09T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/u-k-s-brown-says-eu-needs-integrated-plan-to-end-crises-restore-growth.html
Former U.K. Prime Minister  Gordon Brown  called on European Union leaders to abandon their deficit-
reduction strategies and instead come up with a coordinated plan
to “restore both confidence and growth.”  Brown said EU heads of government should “meet privately,
without the glare of publicity” to overcome the region’s fiscal
crises, including resolving the issue of bank liabilities and
removing structural rigidities. Leaders shouldn’t be concerned
about warnings of inflationary policies, he said. His comments
echoed criticism of the EU’s handling of events by International
Monetary Fund Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn .  “They’ve got to come out with a plan that really surprises
the markets, and leads the markets, instead of being led by the
markets,” Brown, 59, said in a Bloomberg Television interview in
London last night, a day after the publication of his book
“ Beyond the Crash .” “It’s an integrated plan that is needed to
restore both confidence and growth.”  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , under fire from Greece,
Ireland and Spain over her insistence that investors accept
losses in any recurrence of the turmoil sweeping Europe, is
meeting with fellow EU leaders this week to build support ahead
of a Dec. 16-17 summit in Brussels that will decide the matter.  The EU and IMF agreed on an 85-billion euro ($113 billion)
rescue package for  Ireland  on Nov. 28, seven months after a 110-
billion euro bailout for Greece. The  European Central Bank  has
stepped up buying bonds from the region’s most-indebted
countries to prevent the market rout from spreading.  ‘Major Crisis’  “I sense that in the first few months of 2011 we’ve got a
major crisis in the euro area,” Brown said in a separate
interview with the BBC that aired yesterday.  Merkel reiterated her opposition yesterday to proposals for
joint euro-area bonds, saying the debate over steps to resolve
the debt crisis should be conducted “quietly and in a goal-
oriented fashion.”  Issuing joint bonds, as proposed this week by Luxembourg
Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , would in the first instance
fail to “provide the right impulse economically,” Merkel told
reporters in Berlin. Merkel said it was important to “involve
investors” in any future sovereign debt crisis after 2013.  Strauss-Kahn expressed criticism two days ago in Athens of
the EU’s “case-by-case method” for dealing with countries
facing unsustainable borrowing costs and recommended instead a
“comprehensive” solution to the debt crisis.  Strauss-Kahn said yesterday in Geneva that the effects of
the global financial turmoil “are far from over” and that
“the situation in Europe remains troubling and the future is
more uncertain than ever.”  Bond Purchases  The ECB increased its bond purchases last week and delayed
its withdrawal of emergency liquidity measures after President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  pledged to fight “acute” financial-market
tensions. The Frankfurt-based ECB said it settled 1.965 billion
euros of purchases, the most in 22 weeks.  “We’ve got low inflation in our economies,” Brown said in
his Bloomberg Television interview. “There’s no inflation
barrier to policies for growth. My fear is that we have a decade
of high unemployment and low growth.”  Brown, who resigned as leader of Britain’s Labour Party in
May after being defeated in a general election, said he has “no
desire to return to national politics.” While he remains a
member of the U.K. Parliament, he has spoken there only once
since May and voted four times.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
 Francine Lacqua  in London at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 