-- U.S. States Face `Cliff' as Federal Stimulus Ending Opens $38 Billion Hole
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2010-12-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/u-s-states-face-cliff-as-stimulus-end-opens-38-billion-hole.html
U.S. states are preparing for more
budget cuts next year as tax revenue isn’t likely to rebound
enough to replace almost $38 billion in aid that will be gone as
federal economic stimulus ends, according to a report.  At least 31 states and Puerto Rico are forecasting deficits
of $82.1 billion in the next fiscal year even as tax receipts
are picking up, the National Conference of State Legislatures
said today. Under a temporary mandate since 2009, the U.S. has
provided economic aid to states, helping to pay government
workers and shoulder the cost of the Medicaid program to provide
health care for the poor. That aid will be gone, the group said.  “Although a recovering national economy is helping to
stabilize state revenues in fiscal year 2011, serious budget
challenges await state lawmakers in the new year,” the group
said today in the report. “This largely stems from fewer
federal stimulus funds available for next year’s budgets.”  The report, which says states will get $37.9 billion less
in stimulus money in fiscal 2012 compared with 2011, is the
second in as many weeks to warn of renewed financial  pressure on
states  as the funding winds down. Last week,  Raymond Scheppach ,
executive director of the National Governors Association, said
states may confront $175 billion in budget gaps through June
2013, forcing leaders to weigh spending cuts and tax increases.  As stimulus programs under the 2009 American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act conclude and the money they have supplied stops
flowing, it “will create big holes in state budgets -- what
many officials are calling the ‘ARRA cliff’,” the report said.  Cost Pressures  State governments are also dealing with cost increases for
health-care services and primary and secondary education, the
Denver-based legislature group said today in its report. As
rising unemployment left more without health insurance, Medicaid
enrollment jumped to 48.6 million nationwide by December 2009,
rising at an 8.4 percent annual rate,  according  to the Kaiser
Family Foundation’s Commission on Medicaid and the Uninsured.  Republican governors, who will lead a majority of states
next year as a result of the Nov. 2 elections, have said the
fiscal imbalances will require them to reduce the size of
government in Ohio, South Carolina and Pennsylvania.  The fiscal 2012 deficits come on top of at least $110.6
billion in gaps that have been dealt with or are pending for the
current year, the group said. Imbalances totaling $66 billion
are projected for fiscal 2013 by 19 states, according to the
report. In most states, the fiscal year begins in July.  So far, the largest 2012 gaps are forecast in  Nevada , where
the deficit is about one-third the size of the state’s general
fund, New Jersey, at 26 percent of general-fund spending, and
North Carolina, at 20 percent, according to the report. Some
states, including Illinois, haven’t provided forecasts, the
group said.  Welcome News  State tax collections are beginning to recover from the
slide brought on by the recession and the ensuing crisis on Wall
Street, according to the report.  In November 2009, 10 states reported cutting their revenue
forecasts for all of their major taxes and collections still
fell short of those diminished estimates, according to the
group. This year, no state is in a similar position, it said.  That is in line with a report last month from the  Nelson A.
Rockefeller Institute  of Government in Albany, New York. That
group said state tax revenue rose 3.9 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, the third consecutive gain.  “As revenues improve, officials are using terms like
‘modestly upgraded’ and ‘slightly above estimate’ to describe
the performance of major taxes,” according to today’s report.
“Others are even more positive about performance. This revenue
recovery is welcome news for state lawmakers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 