-- U.S. Stocks Advance Amid Tax-Cut Extension Optimism, AIG's Repayment Plan
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-12-08T21:50:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/u-s-stock-index-futures-fluctuate-netflix-3m-slide-starwood-may-drop.html
U.S. stocks rose, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to a two-year high, as a potential
extension of tax cuts boosted shares and  American International
Group Inc.  said it will repay its Federal Reserve credit line.  Regions Financial Corp. and Zions Bancorporation rallied at
least 5.3 percent on speculation that lending will become more 
profitable as bond yields rise.  Morgan Stanley  added 3.2 percent
after getting approval to sell its stake in China International
Capital Corp.  Lincoln National Corp.  and other life insurers
gained after Standard & Poor’s raised the industry’s outlook. 
AIG fell 3.9 percent before shares were halted for the 
announcement about the repayment plan.  The  S&P 500  rose 0.4 percent to 1,228.28 as of 4 p.m. in
New York, its highest close since Sept. 19, 2008. The Dow Jones
Industrial Average gained 13.32 points, or 0.1 percent, to 
11,372.48. The 10-year Treasury yield climbed 11 basis points 
to a six-month high of 3.24 percent.  “It’s hard to argue against the positive economic
momentum,” said  Mark Bronzo , who helps manage $21 billion at
Irvington, New York-based Security Global Investors. “We have
the tax-cut extension, easing of monetary policy. Although 
there’s concern about China tightening, there’s also a 
perception that it will be done in gradual steps. That creates
a good environment for riskier assets.”  ‘Road to Recovery’  Since reaching its previous two-year high on Nov. 5, the
 S&P 500  lost as much as 3.9 percent amid speculation that China
will raise interest rates to tame inflation and on concern that
the sovereign-debt crisis will spread in Europe. The benchmark
gauge for U.S. equities almost wiped out that decline yesterday
after President  Barack Obama  said he’ll agree to a two-year
extension on all Bush-era tax cuts in a compromise deal he
called “an essential step on the road to recovery.”  Banks had the biggest gain in the S&P 500 among 24
industries, rallying 3.4 percent.  Regional banks advanced as rising yields on U.S. Treasury
securities maturing in 10 years or more indicated that lending
will become more profitable,  Brian Klock , an analyst at Keefe
Bruyette & Woods Inc. in New York, said in an e-mail.  Regions Financial rose 5.3 percent to $6.33. Zions
Bancorporation gained 5.5 percent to $22.45.  Morgan Stanley  advanced 3.2 percent to $26.47. The sixth-
largest U.S. bank by assets said it has received all required
regulatory approvals for the sale of its 34.3 percent holding in
 China International Capital Corp. , clearing the way for the
stake’s sale to four investors. Morgan Stanley expects to
realize a pretax gain of about $700 million upon consummation of
the transaction, which is expected to close before the end of
2010, the New York-based bank said today in a statement.  Better Outlook  Life insurers gained after S&P lifted the industry’s
outlook to “stable” from “negative,” saying the companies
may sidestep downgrades next year following stock and bond
sales.  Lincoln National  advanced 7.5 percent to $27.24. Hartford
Financial Services Group Inc. added 3.5 percent to $25. MetLife
Inc. rose 3.9 percent to $42.79.  Corning Inc.  increased 1.2 percent to $18.86. The world’s
biggest maker of glass for flat-panel televisions said fourth-
quarter LCD glass market volumes are now expected to be
consistent with those from the third quarter. The company had
previously forecast volumes to be flat to down slightly.  Gannett Co.  increased 3 percent to $15.78 after the
newspaper publisher said it expects fourth-quarter earnings to
be at the “high end” of its forecast of between 72 cents to 82
cents a share.  S&P 500 Record  The S&P 500 may rise at least 28 percent through next year
to a record as corporate profits and the economy improve,
according to  Byron Wien , the vice chairman of Blackstone
Advisory Services.  In January, Wien wrote in his annual “Ten Surprises” list
of predictions that the S&P 500 would finish 2010 unchanged at
1,115.10. It has gained 9.7 percent this year through yesterday.
The index will extend the advance into 2011 and may reach its
all-time high of 1,565.15 from October 2007, Wien said.  That “isn’t crazy,” Wien, 77, said in a telephone
interview from New York. “It’s certainly possible. Things are
improving. You’ll have earnings over $90 a share for 2011. As
people become comfortable with the fact that calamity is not in
store, they will be willing to take more risk.”  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  dropped 1.4 percent after
China’s statistics bureau brought forward the release of
November economic data on inflation, retail sales, industrial
output and fixed-asset investments by two days to Dec. 11,
heightening speculation that the People’s Bank of China will
lift interest rates this weekend.  ‘Mixed Bag’  “It’s a mixed bag,” said  Cliff Remily , a money manager at
Santa Fe, New Mexico-based Thornburg Investment Management,
which oversees $72 billion. “The tax-cut deal is good news for
the economy. However, investors are reacting to short-term news.
People are concerned about the fact that China needs to cool
down. In my view, there won’t be a dramatic slowdown, but
investors will be reacting to that concern.”  AIG fell 3.9 percent to $42.22 before its shares were
halted. The insurer said it struck a deal to repay its Federal
Reserve credit line as AIG seeks independence from the
government. AIG will use proceeds from the sales of two non-U.S.
life insurance units, the New York-based company said in a
regulatory filing announcing the agreement with regulators
including the U.S. Treasury Department.  Youku.com Inc. surged in the biggest gain for a U.S. 
initial public offering in five years and E-Commerce China 
Dangdang Inc. almost doubled in its debut, the latest sign of 
booming demand for Chinese Internet companies.  Energy and  raw-materials  shares fell. Gold and silver
prices tumbled the most in three weeks, while oil declined after
a government report showed an unexpected increase in supplies of
gasoline and distillate fuels.  Occidental Petroleum Corp. fell 1.6 percent to $90.89,
while  Newmont Mining Corp.  slumped 2.7 percent to $60.83.  McDonald’s Corp. dropped 2 percent to $78.74, the biggest
decline in the Dow average. The world’s largest restaurant chain
said U.S. comparable-store sales climbed 4.9 percent. The
estimate was 5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 