-- America’s Banker Calls Loans in WikiLeaks World: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2010-12-08T22:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/u-s-s-banker-calls-loans-in-wikileaks-world-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
The Nobel Peace Prize is normally
about those who bring nations together. Events in Oslo tomorrow
will show how far two vital ones have moved apart.    China  is enraged that the Nobel Committee is honoring
jailed dissident  Liu Xiaobo . The U.S. is thrilled that human-
rights failings in its fast-emerging rival are in the spotlight
as rarely before. Talk about divergent views.  Yet the Nobel brouhaha is merely a preview of what’s to
come. The dreamers who thought things would go smoothly for the
Group of Two are having a tough reality check. China’s refusal
to rein in  Kim Jong Il  is another sign that the G-2 is entering
a difficult phase that will unnerve markets.  America’s $14 trillion economy still towers over China’s.
Yet massive U.S. debts, protracted wars and waning influence
give China a big window to flex its muscles and consolidate
power. There’s little evidence U.S. officials fully grasp this
dynamic. The year ahead might be a banner one for U.S.-China
tensions. Here are four potential flashpoints.  One, currencies. There is a growing school of thought that
after the deep freeze in relations this year, 2011 has to be
better. Perhaps. With U.S. unemployment on the verge of 10
percent, though, hostility is more likely to soar.  Convenient Boogeyman  U.S. politicians will see China as a convenient bogeyman as
voters demand to know why jobs are scarce. It’s doubtful that
China, desperate to maintain the export-led growth needed for
social stability, will agree to let its currency jump in value
to placate officials in  Washington .  This issue alone exemplifies the folly of thinking the G-2
will join hands to fix the world economy. A 2009 comment by U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  to then-Australian Prime
Minister  Kevin Rudd  says it all. Clinton, according to cables
released by WikiLeaks, asked Rudd: “How do you deal toughly
with your banker?”  That’s the whole point. That $884 billion worth of U.S.
debt in China’s vault means the U.S. can only ask China for
policy steps, not demand them. China won’t be pushed around and
many U.S. lawmakers haven’t gotten the memo.  Two,  North Korea . If there is anything we know for sure
about Dear Leader Kim it’s this: little of what he does is
random and timing is everything.  At the very moment Sunday when  South Korea  held a press
conference to talk up the merits of its free-trade agreement
with the U.S., the North lobbed fresh bombs -- verbal ones. The
North accused the South of raising tensions, thus hogging the
headlines. A coincidence? I doubt it.  China’s Parade  Kim is raining on China’s parade, too. His recent
provocations raised the stakes at a time when China has plenty
on its hands. The year ahead will see the U.S. calling on China
to shorten Kim’s leash, and China probably refusing. Markets and
credit ratings hang in the balance.  Three, patriotic hackers. Computer enthusiasts backed by
Chinese authorities conducted extensive attacks on U.S.
government agencies and companies, including Google Inc.,
according to the New York Times, which cited WikiLeaks.org.  Cyberwarfare is no longer the stuff of Tom Clancy novels.
The more we learn about China’s “patriotic hackers,” the more
it becomes clear the Internet is emerging as the battlefield of
globalization. Sure, China’s military buildup is raising
eyebrows. Yet this cyber arms race is a more immediate threat.    Asia ’s Trade  Four, Asia’s future. The Korean trade agreement is a rare
U.S. victory in the world’s fastest-growing region. It
demonstrates a renewed U.S. focus on Asian trade after 10 years
of neglect.  A year ago, officials from  Seoul  to Jakarta might have
bristled at U.S. efforts to muscle its way back into Asia. After
America’s bad advice during the 1997 crisis and the mess its own
economy has become, who needs the White House in this region?
That was before recent events.  China’s over-the-top reaction to territorial disputes with
neighbors spooked Asia. So did its rationing of rare-earth
metals exports and continued support for a belligerent North
Korea. China has been lobbying governments around the world to
blow off tomorrow’s Nobel Peace Prize ceremony. The ham-
handedness of China’s diplomacy may prompt leaders to welcome
U.S. influence back to the region.  America’s Banker  There is a lot for the U.S. and China to cooperate on:
restoring balance to markets, anti-piracy efforts off Somali’s
coast, fighting terrorism, investing in  Afghanistan  and Central
Asia, building high-speed trains in  California  and freer trade.
The risk in the year ahead is that the disagreements pile up
faster than areas of cooperation.  America’s banker has its own plans for 2011. The U.S., too,
if Senator  John Kerry  is any guide. The Senate Foreign Relations
Committee chairman said on Dec. 7 that Congress is impatient
with China’s mercantilist ways and may take action. Lawmakers
are clamoring for progress on the yuan before President  Hu Jintao  visits the White House next month.  The U.S. must tread carefully. China is skilled at calling
America’s bluff. One of these days, perhaps in 2011, it may call
something more vital: America’s loans.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  