-- HUD Will Investigate Mortgage-Discrimination Claims
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2010-12-08T22:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/u-s-consumer-group-accuses-mortgage-companies-of-discrimination.html
The U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development said it will probe a fair-housing coalition’s
complaint that 22 lenders failed to offer Federal Housing
Administration mortgages to borrowers who should have qualified.  HUD said it will investigate claims filed today by the
National Community Reinvestment Coalition accusing the lenders
of violating the  Fair Housing Act , which prohibits racial
discrimination against borrowers. The companies could face fines
if they are found to have violated fair-lending rules.  “By denying access to FHA loans to qualified, creditworthy
individuals, without regard for the actual risk posed to the
institution, lenders are discouraging the flow of credit and
capital into working-class communities,”  David Berenbaum , the
NCRC’s chief program officer, said in a statement.  A coalition study found that the companies -- including
MetLife Bank NA of Bridgewater, New Jersey, American Equity
Mortgage Inc. of St. Louis and  PHH Corp . of  Mount Laurel , New
Jersey -- didn’t offer applications for U.S.-backed loans to
borrowers with credit scores below 640, even though the FHA
guarantees loans to people with scores as low as 500. The higher
standards disproportionately hurt blacks and Latinos, NCRC said.  “For lenders to deny responsible home seekers this source
of credit, without regard for their capacity to repay the loans,
would raise serious fair-housing concerns,” HUD Assistant
Secretary  John Trasvina  said in a statement.  David Hammarstrom, a spokesman for MetLife, said the
company hasn’t received a copy of the complaint and declined to
comment further. PHH and American Equity didn’t immediately
respond to telephone calls and e-mails seeking comment.  Tougher Standards  The FHA sets standards for loans that the government agency
guarantees. Under its guidelines, borrowers with a credit score
of 580 or higher can qualify for loans with down payments of as
little as 3.5 percent.  Lenders have toughened their standards for FHA-insured
loans beyond what the agency requires, creating a higher hurdle
to  home ownership . Several lenders, including the two biggest,
 Bank of America Corp . and  Wells Fargo & Co. , require minimum
credit scores between 620 and 640. Those two companies weren’t
among those targeted by the NCRC today.  “We’re continuing to gather information about them,” NCRC
President and Chief Executive Officer  John Taylor  said in an
interview.  Credit profiles, not racial profiles, guide lending
practices, said  Glen Corso , managing editor of the Community
Mortgage Banking Project, an Alexandria, Virginia-based trade
group that represents lenders. One in five borrowers with credit
scores between 580 and 619 fall behind on their mortgages, Corso
said, citing FHA data.  “There is no place for discrimination based on a
borrower’s race or ethnicity,” Corso said in a statement. At
the same time, “to ask mortgage lenders to ignore risk factor
for certain loans is reckless and misguided,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 