-- U.S. House Passes Resolution Praising Jailed Nobel Prize Winner Liu Xiaobo
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2010-12-08T17:44:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/u-s-house-passes-resolution-praising-jailed-nobel-prize-winner-liu-xiaobo.html
The U.S. House today passed a
resolution expressing support for jailed Chinese dissident  Liu Xiaobo  and calling on the Chinese government to release him and
stop censoring media reports about his Nobel Peace Prize award.  The vote on the resolution, sponsored by Representative
Chris Smith, a New Jersey Republican, was 402-1.  During debate yesterday, House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , a
California Democrat and a top U.S. critic of the Chinese
government’s treatment of dissidents, said the House’s approval
aids in “sending a clear message of support for human rights
and democracy in China.”  Representative  Joe Pitts , a Pennsylvania Republican, called
Liu “a modern-day human rights hero.”  Liu in October was named the winner of this year’s Nobel
Peace Prize for his struggle to promote human rights and
democracy. The award was denounced by authorities in Beijing,
and the Chinese government placed Liu’s wife, Liu Xia, under
house arrest, preventing her from accept the prize on her
husband’s behalf at the award ceremony in Oslo on Dec. 10.  Liu, 54, was awarded the prize “for his long and non-
violent struggle for fundamental human rights in China,”
according to a statement by the Norwegian Nobel Committee in
Oslo.  The House resolution, which praises Liu’s receipt of the
prize and urges that he be freed, also honors other dissidents
who have promoted democratic reforms in China, including
participants in the 1989 Tiananmen Square demonstration.  Liu, a writer, was sentenced to 11 years in prison on Dec.
25, 2009, on a charge of plotting to subvert the ruling
Communist Party. He had been in custody since December 2008 for
his role in organizing Charter 08, an  open letter  calling for
direct elections and the freedom of assembly. More than 300
Chinese academics, lawyers and activists signed the letter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  