-- H&R Block Credit Swaps Tumble as Mortgage Loss Provisions Fall
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-12-08T23:21:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/u-s-credit-swaps-falls-for-sixth-day-high-on-economic-outlook.html
Credit-default swaps on debt issued
by  H&R Block Inc.  fell to the lowest in more than three weeks
after the tax preparer yesterday reported a  smaller loss  than
expected and reduced provisions for bad mortgages.  While shares of the Kansas City, Missouri-based company
dropped by the most in almost two months, the annual cost to
protect the bonds of Block Financial LLC, which issues all of
parent H&R Block’s public company debt, dropped 30.4 basis
points to 527.4, CMA data show.  Swaps on H&R Block have declined from as high as 832 basis
points in October after doubling that month on investor concern
the company’s $188 million repurchase reserves for potential
losses on faulty mortgages would be inadequate. The company,
which originated home mortgages through January 2008, may be
forced to buy back bonds if loans were sold based on false or
missing information.  “There was nothing really alarming in their earnings
report,” said  Michael Reiner , a New York-based credit
strategist with Societe Generale.  H&R Block said yesterday it had a consolidated net loss of
36 cents a share in the fiscal second quarter, less than the
estimated 38 cents a share in a  Bloomberg survey .  Loss provisions on mortgage loans declined $5.1 million to
$8.3 million for the third quarter from the prior period due to
falling delinquency rates and stabilizing home prices, the
company said.  Tax Cuts  H&R Block shares fell 83 cents, or 6.1 percent, in New York
Stock Exchange Composite trading. They’ve declined 44 percent
this year. Kate O’Neill Rauber, a company spokeswoman, declined
to immediately comment.  The cost of protecting bonds from default in the U.S. fell
for a sixth day, the longest streak of declines since June, on
speculation that President  Barack Obama ’s tax cuts will help
spur economic growth.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 1.5 basis points to a
mid-price of 88.5 basis points, according to index administrator
Markit Group Ltd.  Obama’s accord may add as much as half a percentage point
to economic growth next year, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “There’s really no doubt a couple years down the line you
really need to increase taxes dramatically or change your tax
code or reduce spending,” said  Mikhail Foux , a credit
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York. “But what you need to
do right now is to help sustainable economic growth and the
market for the most part is allowing that.”  European Swaps  The credit-swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, has declined
from 99.4 on Nov. 30. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125
companies with investment-grade ratings added 1.6 basis points
to 105.5, and the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-
default swaps on 50 companies with mostly high-yield credit
ratings increased 3.3 basis points to 455.5, Markit prices show.  Contracts on Fortune Brands Inc.’s debt fell after the
Deerfield, Illinois-based company said in a statement it will
spin off its home and security division as a publicly traded
company and sell or spin off its golf unit.  The swaps declined to 172.5 basis points, according to CMA.
That’s down from 219.4 basis points last month as speculation
built that  William Ackman ’s Pershing Square Capital Management
LP would seek a break-up of the maker of Jim Beam bourbon.  Fortune Brands  Contracts protecting a net $1.3 billion of Fortune’s debt
were outstanding as of Dec. 3, according to the  Depository Trust
Clearing Corp ., which runs a central repository for the credit
swaps market.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  