-- U.S. Invites Japan to Join Korean Exercise as Tensions With North Escalate
-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 2010-12-08T09:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/mullen-repeats-call-on-china-to-use-influence-to-rein-in-north-korea-ally.html
The U.S. military chief said he wants
Japan to join drills off the Korean peninsula to forge a
“unified position” with South Korea against aggression by  Kim Jong Il ’s regime.  Admiral  Mike Mullen , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
said at a briefing today in Seoul that he hopes U.S. military
exercises with South Korea will “include participation by your
neighbors and partners, in particular the Japanese.” He didn’t
elaborate on what kind of role Japan would be playing, only that
they could offer training and expertise.  “I leave this evening for Tokyo to discuss with Japanese
military leaders ways in which we can leverage their experience
and improve defense cooperation,” Mullen said at a news
conference with South Korea’s Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Han
Min Koo. “I only wish China were as helpful.”  The U.S. has been closing ranks with Japan and South Korea
as it presses China, North Korea’s main source of trade and aid,
to play a bigger role in helping stave off military escalation
on the Korean peninsula. Tensions have heightened after the
North shelled a South Korean island on Nov. 23, killing four
people, including two civilians.  Increased engagement between Japan, South Korea and the U.S.
will help “cement our unified position on the threat posed by
North Korea,” Mullen said. Japan, which occupied Korea until it
was driven out at the end of World War II, participated as an
observer in Korea-U.S. drills in July.  Mullen’s visit to Seoul came as South Korea was examining
what it believes was artillery shots by North Korea today. None
of the shells fell across the border into South Korea, an
official at the presidential office said, declining to be
identified because of government policy.  Markets  The benchmark  Kospi  fell 0.4 percent, while the  MSCI  Asia
Pacific Ex-Japan index snapped a five day streak of gains to
trade 1.3 percent lower at 5:33 p.m. in Seoul. The won fell and
the dollar gained.  The shots may have been part of North Korea’s regular
military drills, Yonhap News reported, citing a presidential
official in Seoul it didn’t identify. The North was firing in
the direction of South Korea’s Baengyeong island, Yonhap said.  President  Barack Obama  sent the aircraft carrier USS George
Washington for military exercises off shores of both South Korea
and Japan after last month’s shelling. Following exercises with
the U.S. in the Yellow Sea off the peninsula’s west coast, South
Korea sent military observers to separate drills between the U.S.
and Japan for the first time.  North Korea slammed the strengthening military alliance
between the U.S., Japan and South Korea as “increasing the
danger of war hour by hour” in a Dec. 4 statement via the
official Korean Central News Agency. China has also criticized
U.S. military maneuvers in the region.  ‘Playing With Knives’  “Brandishing of force cannot solve the issue,” Chinese
Foreign Ministry spokeswoman  Jiang Yu  told a news briefing Dec.
2. “Some are playing with knives and guns while China is
criticized for calling for dialogue, is that fair?”  China on Nov. 28 proposed “emergency consultations” with
negotiators from North and South Korea, Japan, Russia and the
U.S. to defuse tensions. The U.S., South Korea and Japan have
rejected the call.  “We first need an appropriate basis for the resumption of
talks,” Mullen said today, repeating Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton ’s comments this week after she met South Korean Foreign
Minister Kim Sung Hwan and Japanese counterpart  Seiji Maehara  in
Washington. North Korea’s provocations should not be rewarded
with “bargaining or new incentives,” he said.  Mullen said China should live up to its “unique
responsibility” and rein in its ally North Korea from further
aggression that destabilizes the region. “Now is the time for
Beijing to step up to that responsibility,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  