-- Upton Tops Barton to Lead Republican's House Energy and Commerce Committee
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2010-12-08T05:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/upton-tops-barton-to-lead-republican-s-house-energy-and-commerce-committee.html
Representative  Fred Upton  was
endorsed by a Republican leadership panel to head the House
Energy and Commerce Committee, overcoming objections from Tea
Party activists who said his record wasn’t conservative enough.  The Republican Steering Committee, which nominates chairmen
for congressional panels, chose Upton of Michigan yesterday over
Representatives  Joe Barton  of Texas,  John Shimkus  of Illinois
and  Cliff Stearns  of Florida. The full Republican conference may
vote on the recommendations today.  “We face many challenges, but priority No. 1 is to repeal
the job-killing Obamacare law,” Upton said in an e-mailed
statement after the vote. “Energy and Commerce will also
immediately adopt new rules to cut spending and restore fiscal
responsibility.”  Upton takes over a committee with jurisdiction for such
issues as vehicle-safety and emissions, energy policy,
telecommunications and health care. The panel may be used by
Republicans to begin the effort to repeal the health-care
overhaul law and block environmental initiatives pushed by
President  Barack Obama .  Upton was criticized by Republicans for voting to phase out
the incandescent light bulb and expand a federal-health
insurance program for children.  Barton, a Texas Republican who is now the top Republican on
the Energy and Commerce Committee, and the other candidates can
appeal and ask the full Republican membership to reject Upton’s
nomination. Steering committee recommendations typically are
adopted by the conference.  Barton BP Apology  Barton, a former committee chairman, was considered an
underdog in part because House Republican rules place term
limits on how long a member may serve as the chairman or top
Republican on a committee. He was pressed by party leaders in
June to retract an apology he gave to  BP Plc  during a hearing on
the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. He complied several hours later.  Upton “is taking over the best committee in Congress,”
Barton said in a statement. “He has an enormous job ahead, and
I’m going to do everything I know how to make his chairmanship
the kind of success that the American people want and expect.”  Upton faced opposition from FreedomWorks, a Washington
group aligned with the Tea Party movement that supports less
government and lower spending, and radio commentator  Rush Limbaugh , who cited the light-bulb bill as an example of federal
“nannyism.”  Opposition Campaign  FreedomWorks mounted a  “Down with Upton”  Web campaign and
this week delivered more than 35,000 petitions opposing his
candidacy, said Max Pappas, vice president of public policy for
the group. An additional 2,200 people called steering committee
members, Pappas said in an e-mail.  When the candidates made their cases to the committee last
week, Upton showed the panel articles from  David Keene , chairman
of the American Conservative Union, and other Republicans in
support of his candidacy.  Representative  Lynn Westmoreland , a Georgia Republican and
steering panel member, said after the vote that Upton did a
“good job of dispelling some of the charges out there that were
against him,” noting the letters endorsing him from prominent
Republicans in and out of Congress.  Representative  Doc Hastings , the incoming chairman of the
House Natural Resources Committee, is pushing to limit the
authority of the Energy and Commerce Committee. The Washington
state Republican wants to claim jurisdiction over energy policy
from the energy committee, a move opposed by Upton and Barton.  The resources panel now oversees energy development on
federal lands and in offshore waters.  Hastings  argues the shift  would allow one committee to
focus on health-care repeal while the other pursues party’s
energy agenda.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 