-- Urban Meyer Is Stepping Down as Football Coach of Florida, School Says
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-12-08T20:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/urban-meyer-is-stepping-down-as-football-coach-of-florida-school-says.html
Urban Meyer  said he’s stepping down
as the University of Florida football coach to focus on his
family, a year after he left the program for health reasons and
changed his mind two days later.  Meyer, 46, led the Gators to two national titles and a
64-15 record over six seasons at the Gainesville, Florida,
school. He will coach Florida in the Outback Bowl against Penn
State on New Year’s Day in Tampa, Florida.  The Gators went 7-5 this season, the worst record in
Meyer’s college coaching career.  Meyer told Athletic Director  Jeremy Foley  over the weekend
that he was contemplating retirement and informed the team of
his decision today. No replacement was named.  “I am a fierce competitor to my core,” Meyer said in a
 statement . “At this time in my life, however, I appreciate the
sacrifices my 24/7 profession has demanded of me, and I know it
is time to put my focus on my family and life away from the
field.”  Meyer said in December 2009 that he would step down because
of health problems and then reconsidered two days later. At the
time, Meyer said he had chest pains for four years and became
concerned when they intensified. Meyer was hospitalized last
season after Florida lost to Alabama in the Southeastern
Conference championship game.  Meyer didn’t say in the statement whether he’s had further
physical problems.  Root for Kids  “The decision to step down was a difficult one,” Meyer
said. “But, after spending more than two decades motivating and
celebrating the young men I’ve been so proud to coach, I relish
the opportunity to cheer for my three terrific kids as they
compete in their own respective sports.”  Meyer had a 103-23 record over 10 seasons as a coach at
Florida, the University of Utah and Bowling Green. He joined the
Gators in 2005 and led Florida to a national title in his second
season by beating Ohio State.  Florida won its second Bowl Championship Series title under
Meyer after the 2008 season. It started 12-0 during the 2009
season before the loss to Alabama cost the school the chance to
reach the BCS championship game.  “He has given everything he has to this institution and we
are grateful for the experiences,” Foley said in the statement.
“It a chapter in our history that is closing, but I know Urban
wants to remain involved with the university and the Gainesville
community.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  