-- Turkey October Industrial Output Rose Most in Year as Car Production Jumps
-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 2010-12-08T10:54:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/turkey-october-industrial-output-rose-most-in-year-as-car-production-jumps.html
Turkish  industrial production  rose
3.1 percent in October from a month earlier, the biggest
increase in a year, as demand for cars and appliances helped
sustain the economy’s recovery.  Output was up 12.8 percent from October 2009 when adjusted
for the number of working days, the statistics agency in Ankara
said today on its website. Without adjustment, the  annual  
increase was 9.8 percent, compared with a median forecast of 6.4
percent in a Bloomberg survey of eight economists.  Record-low interest rates are driving domestic spending on
items such as cars built by  Ford Otomotiv Sanayi AS , the local
unit of Ford Motor Co.  Gross domestic product  expanded about 10
percent in the first half, after shrinking 4.7 percent in 2009.
 Consumer loans  have increased more than 30 percent this year.  Today’s industrial figures affirm “the reacceleration in
economic activity,”  Inan Demir , chief economist for Finansbank
AS in Istanbul, wrote in an e-mailed note to investors,
predicting that growth this year may exceed his forecast of 7.5
percent. Third-quarter GDP figures are due on Dec. 10.  The rebound hasn’t persuaded Central Bank Governor  Durmus Yilmaz  to raise the benchmark interest rate from a record low of
7 percent. Yilmaz said in October that benign inflation and
subdued demand in the European Union mean rate increases are
unlikely until toward the end of next year.  The auto industry, Turkey’s biggest foreign-currency earner
after tourism, lifted output an annual 32 percent in October,
the statistics agency said  Ford Otosan reported a third-quarter  profit  of 112.3
million liras ($75 million), 22 percent more than a year
earlier, and its shares have jumped 48 percent this year. Other
carmakers with factories in Turkey include Toyota Motor Corp.
and Fiat SpA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 