-- Vale Debuts in Hong Kong, Seeking Higher Profile in Its Biggest Ore Market
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-08T08:48:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/vale-debuts-stock-in-hong-kong-seeking-higher-profile-update2-.html
Vale SA , the world’s biggest exporter
of iron ore, debuted on the Hong Kong stock exchange today, as
the Rio de Janeiro-based company seeks to increase its profile
in its biggest market.  Vale’s  common depositary receipts , which represent one
share, closed up at HK$265.20 in Hong Kong from 56.72 reais
(HK$261.95) yesterday in Sao Paulo. Trading in Hong Kong started
at HK$270. The  preferred depositary receipts  started at
HK$236.60 and closed at HK$233.  Vale introduced the receipts, which didn’t involve raising
any funds, to boost its profile in Asia, which accounts for half
its sales. It’s the first time a company has sold depositary
receipts in the Chinese city where a record $45.4 billion has
been raised this year in initial public offerings.  “The prospect of benefiting from Hong Kong’s high
liquidity level is another reason for listing here,” said  Helen Lau , a Hong Kong-based analyst with UOB-Kay Hian Ltd.  Vale’s listing involves 259 million common depositary
receipts and as many as 393 million Class A preferred depositary
receipts. The common depository receipts trade with the ticker
6210 HK, while the preferred go by the ticker 6230 HK.  “Fifty percent of our sales are directed to Asia and
almost 40 percent to China,” Chief Financial Officer  Guilherme Cavalcanti , said today in Hong Kong. The company was also
attracted by the “large number of retail investors in Hong Kong
as we seek to increase our investor base in Asia,” he said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., sole sponsor of the listing, will
arrange for a number of Vale shares to be transferred to Hong
Kong.  Earnings Multiples  Vale joins Russia’s United Co. Rusal and Luxembourg-based
L’Occitane International SA in seeking access to Chinese
investors. The Chinese city introduced depositary receipts in
2008 to widen listings to include foreign companies that are
prohibited from registering common shares overseas.  Shares of the Brazilian company trade at 10.75 times
estimated earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Stocks on Brazil’s  Bovespa stock index  trade at an average 13.26
times estimated earnings, while shares on the Hang Seng Index,
Hong Kong’s benchmark, have an average price-to-earnings ratio
of 14.72.  Double Investments  A successful listing may pave the way for other Brazilian
companies to trade in Hong Kong. Petroleo Brasileiro SA, the
state-run oil company, is considering selling depository
receipts in Hong Kong, the Ming Pao newspaper reported Nov. 16.  Vale plans to almost double investments to $24 billion next
year as it expands iron ore production as well as boosting
nickel, copper and fertilizer businesses, it said Oct. 28. The
company aims to boost minerals and metals production by 16
percent annually between 2011 and 2015, compared with a rate of
9.8 percent from 2003 to 2008.  “We don’t expect a slowdown in demand for iron ore,”
Vale’s Cavalcanti said. “Demand for metals and minerals will
continue to be high, mainly due to Asia and China.”  Demand growth for iron ore may resume at the end of this
year after China tackles overcapacity in its steel industry,
Executive Director  Jose Carlos Martins  said in September.  -- Helen Yuan  and  Fox Hu . Editors:  Andrew Hobbs ,  Alan Soughley   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 