-- Viterra Assessing Damage to South Australia Wheat Crop After Heavy Rains
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-12-08T08:21:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/viterra-assessing-damage-to-south-australia-wheat-crop-after-heavy-rains.html
Damage from heavy rainfall this week
on crops in South Australia, the country’s second-largest wheat
producing state, is being assessed, said  Viterra Inc. ’s
South East Asia President Rob Gordon.  “It will have caused some damage but it’s way too early to
make an estimate of what that might be,” Gordon said in an
interview at a grains industry forum in Perth. The severe
weather which passed through the state in the past 24 to 48
hours didn’t represent the same risk to crops as the continuing
heavy rainfall in New South Wales and Queensland, he said.  Rain in the past week has caused flooding in eastern
Australia, slowing the harvest and downgrading crop quality to
feed. Further wet weather is forecast for Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland this week after storms crossed South
Australia, according to the Bureau of Meteorology.  The grain crop in South Australia, which is about 20
percent to 25 percent harvested, was still likely to be a
record, Gordon said.  Wheat for March delivery on Chicago Board of Trade fell 2.3
percent to $7.665 a bushel after reaching a four-month high this
week amid concerns that Australia would have reduced supplies of
milling quality grain.  South Australia had experienced mostly favorable weather
this season and international demand was strong, Gordon said.  “We have a very full shipping program over the next three
to four months,” he said.  South Australia’s winter crop production may reach 9.7
million metric tons this harvest, including 5.5 million tons of
wheat, the Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource
Economics and Sciences forecast yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Pugh in Melbourne at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  