-- Volvo CEO Johansson Will Resign in Mid-2011 After 14 Years Leading Company
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2010-12-08T16:43:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/volvo-ab-says-chief-executive-officer-leif-johansson-to-resign-in-mid-2011.html
Volvo AB , the world’s second-largest
truckmaker, said Chief Executive Officer  Leif Johansson  will
resign next summer after 14 years leading the Swedish company.  Johansson plans to leave Volvo when he turns 60 next year
and will not seek a CEO position at another company, the
Gothenburg, Sweden-based truckmaker said today. Volvo will begin
an immediate search for a successor.  After taking over as CEO in 1997, Johansson shed the car
business to focus on heavy trucks and construction equipment.
After selling Volvo Cars to Ford Motor Co. in 1999 for $6.45
billion, he went on a buying spree, purchasing Renault Trucks in
France and Mack Trucks in the U.S. in 2001, Nissan Diesel trucks
in Japan in 2006 and Ingersoll-Rand Plc’s road construction
machinery unit in 2007.  “The new CEO will get a really good entry point,” said
 Niclas Hoglund , an analyst with Swedbank Markets in Stockholm
with a “strong buy” rating on the stock. “The market wants to
see an external candidate at this point, someone who can look
with new eyes at Volvo’s structure. Volvo could benefit from
someone shaking up the company a little bit.”  Volvo slipped 1 percent to 111.20 kronor at the 5:30 p.m.
close of trading in Stockholm, valuing the company at 234
billion kronor ($34 billion). The shares have jumped 81 percent
this year, the best-performing stock on Sweden’s benchmark  OMX
Stockholm 30 Index .  Second Swede  Johansson is the second top official at a major Swedish
company to announce plans this month to step down. Ericsson AB,
the world’s largest maker of mobile-phone networks, said Dec. 6
that Chairman  Michael Treschow  would leave the company in the
next two years.  Olof Persson , head of Volvo’s construction equipment unit,
is the leading internal candidate to succeed Johansson,
according to Swedbank’s Hoglund.  Johansson cut thousands of jobs during the financial crisis
as demand plummeted and contributed to a 2009 net loss of 14.7
billion kronor. Volvo, along with rivals  Daimler AG  and Scania
AB, is now benefiting from rebounding heavy-truck markets in
North America and Asia.  Volvo posted third-quarter  net income  of 2.81 billion
kronor, its third consecutive quarterly profit, as sales rose 32
percent to 64 billion kronor during the period from a year
earlier. The company forecast in October that the truck market
will grow 10 percent in Europe this year and as much as 30
percent in North America.  ‘Fantastic Period’  Johansson said today he will also leave the board of Volvo
when he steps down as CEO. While he has no plans to become CEO
at another company, he may consider other board assignments,
according to the statement.  “My years at Volvo have been a fantastic period in my life
and this is by no means a light-hearted decision, but at some
point it’s time to leave,” Johansson said. “The timing is good
both with respect to my personal situation and with respect to
the more stable situation for the company.”  Before Volvo, Johansson worked at Electrolux AB, the
world’s second-largest household appliance maker, for 13 years,
including as CEO from 1994. He’s the son of  Lennart Johansson ,
who was CEO and later chairman of SKF AB, the world’s largest
maker of bearings, for a total of 21 years until 1992.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Niklas Magnusson  in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ola Kinnander  in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 