-- VTB Said to Plan Yuan Bonds in Race With Rusal to Be First in China Debt
-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2010-12-08T15:57:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/vtb-said-to-plan-yuan-bonds-in-race-with-rusal-to-be-first-in-china-debt.html
VTB Group, Russia’s second-largest
lender, plans to sell yuan bonds in a push to become the
country’s first company to offer debt in the Chinese currency.  VTB, which became the first Russian company to sell
Singapore dollar bonds in July, will offer three-year Chinese
debt in a deal arranged by its investment banking unit, VTB
Capital, and HSBC Holding Plc, according to a person with
knowledge of the transaction, who declined to be identified
because the information isn’t public.  Russian President Dmitry Medvedev has called for wider use
of emerging-market currencies in bilateral trade to offset the
influence of the dollar and euro. Moscow’s Micex Stock Exchange
will introduce ruble-yuan trading Dec. 15 after China allowed
its currency to trade against the ruble in the interbank market
from Nov. 22.  “Potential issuance is consistent with our debt
diversification strategy,”  Herbert Moos , VTB Group’s deputy
chairman, said in an e-mailed response to questions today. “VTB
could become the first Russian issuer to issue debt in China,
setting up a new capital pool for Russia.”  VTB, which has dollar, euro, Swiss franc, ruble and
hryvnia-denominated debt outstanding, postponed its debut
offering of five-year notes in Brazilian reais last month due to
market volatility, according to a person with knowledge of the
transaction. The yuan sale would be the first from Russia,
Bloomberg data show.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s biggest aluminum producer, is
also planning to sell bonds in yuan as it expands its presence
in China, head of capital markets  Oleg Mukhamedshin  said Sept.
2.  VTB is rated Baa1 by Moody’s Investors Service, its third-
lowest investment-grade ranking, and one step lower at BBB by
Standard & Poor’s, the same level as the Russian government’s
rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Benjamin Martin  in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net ;
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  