-- Wall Street Asks Agencies to Slow Down on New Derivatives Rules
-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 2010-12-08T17:16:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/wall-street-asks-agencies-to-slow-down-in-writing-derivatives-market-rules.html
Eleven financial-industry trade
associations representing Wall Street banks, hedge funds, swaps
dealers are asking federal regulators writing new derivatives
rules to slow down.  In a letter sent to the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
groups called for extending public comment periods on some
regulatory proposals and said firms should be given more time to
implement new directives.  “We are concerned that market participants will be asked
to do too much in too short a time,” the groups wrote in the
letter sent yesterday. “This could have significant adverse
consequences for the customers that rely on these products.”  The agencies have begun writing hundreds of rules arising
from the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul legislation that became
law in July. The effort is designed to increase transparency in
the derivatives industry, including bringing additional firms
under CFTC oversight and requiring most trades to be cleared or
traded on an exchange.  Derivatives are financial contracts whose value is derived
from stocks, bonds, loans, currencies and commodities, or linked
to specific events such as changes in interest rates or the
weather. Trading in derivatives has been blamed for helping
trigger the 2008 financial crisis.  July Deadline  While the federal agencies have some leeway in writing the
rules, the law requires most of the rulemaking to be completed
by July.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment;
 Scott Schneider , a spokesman for the CFTC, didn’t return a call
seeking comment.  The associations signing the Dec. 6 letter include the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, the
American Bankers Association, the Futures Industry Association,
the Financial Services Forum and representatives for the hedge-
fund and mutual-fund industries.  The groups complained that the agencies were moving forward
on rules without first completing the legal definitions that
will determine who is affected -- an issue raised by the two
Republican CFTC commissioners at a public meeting last month.  For example, the CFTC issued proposed rules in November
that concern regulation of swaps dealers and major swap
participants. Several weeks later in December, the agency
proposed rules for deciding which firms would be considered a
“swap dealer” and which would be a “major swap participant.”  The trade groups also warned the agencies that the flood of
new regulations makes it likely that the industry will need more
time to comply with the law.  “We urge regulators to take into account the practical
realities facing market participants and to phase in the
application of new regulatory requirements over a reasonable
period of time,” the groups wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Schmidt  in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  