-- Wallinger’s Horse Statue Stalled as Cost Soars to $15.8 Million
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2010-12-08T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/wallinger-s-horse-statue-stalled-as-cost-soars-fivefold-to-15-8-million.html
Artist  Mark Wallinger ’s planned
sculpture of a giant horse is in limbo as its corporate patrons
strive to raise the 10 million pounds ($15.8 million) needed to
make it -- five times more than originally estimated.  Wallinger aims to put up a 50-meter-high (164-ft) monument
in former cement quarries at Ebbsfleet in Kent, near London. The
white thoroughbred -- 33 times life size -- won a 2 million
pound commission from the Ebbsfleet Landmark Project in February
2009, and got planning permission from local authorities in
April of this year, its patrons said.  The equine statue would be about as tall as Nelson’s Column
in London’s Trafalgar Square, and visible to drivers and
Eurostar train passengers. Yet it is now mired in money worries
as the U.K. emerges from its deepest recession on record.  “Obviously, it’s a tough time at the moment,” Wallinger
said in an interview. “But we’re coming out of recession. I’m
confident we’ll find the money and get on with it.”  Wallinger said the initial budget was “never a
particularly realistic figure,” because it came before any
artist bids. He said the horse was, in size and complexity, “an
enormous thing.”  “You can’t hurry along anything like this: It’ll take as
long as it takes,” said Wallinger, 51, winner of the 2007
Turner Prize, the U.K.’s top contemporary-art award.  Peter Frackiewicz, project director at developers  Land
Securities Group Plc  -- one of the horse’s three corporate
patrons -- said it was now a question of money.  “We are still trying to find funding to move the project
forward,” he said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Horse’s Hurdles  Ben Ruse , the spokesman for the Ebbsfleet Landmark Project,
confirmed the financing hurdles.  “We’ve not had the large sums we need so that we would
feel safe taking the project forward very significantly,” Ruse
said. “We’re still awaiting that.”  The patrons have five years to act, he said, after which
planning permission runs out, and would need to be re-applied
for.  Wallinger in 2004 dressed as a bear and roamed around a
Berlin museum for 10 nights, using an animal symbolizing Germany
to ponder the country’s past and present. Two years later, he
replicated some 600 banners and placards put up by Iraq War
protester Brian Haw outside the U.K. parliament.  Would a postponement hurt his reputation? “I didn’t
propose it for my reputation,” Wallinger replied, “so I’m not
particularly worried.”  Channel Tunnel  The Ebbsfleet Landmark Project sculpture competition was
initiated in May 2007 by three companies -- Land Securities;
London & Continental Railways Ltd.; and Eurostar Group Ltd.,
which runs the high-speed Channel Tunnel rail link.  Their hope was to replicate the success of Angel of the
North, a giant statue by  Antony Gormley  in Gateshead, northern
England that is now the region’s symbol.  The three partners together put in 1 million pounds to get
the project started. That money has been mostly spent now,
leaving just enough to get the fundraising going, Ruse said.  In May 2008, journalists and bidding artists boarded the
Eurostar high-speed train for Ebbsfleet -- site of a new
Eurostar rail stop, where maquettes of the five proposals were
shown at a buffet lunch. The other artist nominees were  Rachel Whiteread ,  Daniel Buren , Richard Deacon and Christopher Le Brun.  In an interview on the train back that same day, Wallinger
said he found horses “extraordinarily beautiful” and recalled
that a rearing white horse was the symbol of Kent.  All five maquettes were then viewed by tens of thousands of
people in a Kent shopping mall and on the Internet. Wallinger’s
white horse won the most votes, though he was selected
separately by a jury.  “It’s been a tough project,” said Mark Davy, director of
FutureCity, who is on the landmark board and runs the program’s
cultural side. “You could quite easily have shut down a number
of times.”  “There’s still a willingness on the part of the project
team to make it work,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Farah Nayeri  in London at 
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 