-- Wheat Drops as Climb to Four-Month High Encourages Selling; Soybeans Fall
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g   a n d   J a e   H u r
-- 2010-12-08T12:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/wheat-declines-on-pakistan-wheat-speculation-as-country-lifts-export-ban.html
Wheat fell for a second day in
Chicago after the grain’s climb to a four-month high yesterday
encouraged investor to scale back their positions.  Wheat for March delivery slid 1.8 percent to $7.705 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 12:54 p.m. Paris time.
The price yesterday touched $8.11, the highest level for a most-
active contract since Aug. 6.  “The market was a bit overbought, and also it’s a
correction ahead of the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s monthly
reports,”  Han Sung Min , a broker at Korea Exchange Bank Futures
Co. in Seoul, said today by phone.  On Dec. 10, the USDA may cut its forecast for world wheat
inventories to 171.3 million metric tons, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of 17 analysts. The agency predicted last
month stockpiles on May 31 would total 172.51 million tons.  The U.S. is currently forecast to be the largest wheat
exporter, followed by France, Canada and Australia, based on
estimates by the International Grains Council and French crops
office FranceAgriMer.  Wheat futures’ 14-day relative strength index, a gauge of
whether a commodity is overbought or oversold, reached 72 on
Dec. 6. Some analysts and traders who study technical charts
view levels above 70 as signaling a potential impending drop.  Milling wheat for January delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in
Paris rose 0.4 percent to 233.25 euros ($308.89) a ton.  Drought, Floods  Wheat has jumped 60 percent in Chicago since the end of
June as drought destroyed crops in Russia, floods harmed fields
in Canada, and dry weather in the U.S. Great Plains reduced the
outlook for winter plantings.  “We should be buying wheat,” economist Dennis Gartman
said in his daily newsletter. “However, that time is not today;
tomorrow perhaps. Today is correction day; today is late-long
liquidation day.”  Pakistan may export as much as 2 million tons of wheat in
the next six months after a shipment ban was lifted, said
Agrocorp International Managing Director  Vijay Iyengar .  Global wheat shipments will increase by 2 percent annually
to 133 million tons by 2015-2016,  Etsuo Kitahara , the council’s
executive director, said today.  As much as 35 percent of the harvest in the Australian
states of Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria risked being
classified feed-quality after wet weather, Commonwealth Bank of
Australia said Dec. 5.  Animal Feed  “The poor quality of Australian wheat may drag corn prices
lower, as more wheat may be used for animal feed,” Korea
Exchange Bank Futures’ Han said.  Corn for March delivery lost 0.7 percent to $5.58 a bushel
in Chicago, rebounding from a slide of as much as 1.7 percent.
Soybeans for January delivery dropped 0.7 percent to $12.765 a
bushel after falling as much as 1.5 percent.  Corn and soybeans declined yesterday on speculation that
rain will improve soil moisture for developing crops in Brazil
and Argentina, the world’s biggest exporters behind the U.S.  China’s soybean imports may drop to 5.3 million tons this
month compared with about 5.4 million tons in November, the
Ministry of Commerce said. Inbound soybean-oil shipments may
total 195,000 tons in December, against 99,100 tons last month,
it said in a statement dated yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rudy Ruitenberg  in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net ;
 Jae Hur  in Tokyo at   jhur1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  