-- Wheat Drops for Second Day on Concern Demand Will Slow After Recent Rally
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-12-08T21:20:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/wheat-drops-for-second-day-on-concern-demand-will-slow-after-recent-rally.html
Wheat futures fell for a second day
on speculation that the worst of the flood damage to Australia’s
crop is over and that demand may slow after prices climbed to a
four-month high.  Wheat has surged 14 percent in two weeks as December rains
in Australia followed the wettest September-to-November period
on record. Crop damage may be priced into the market, and
further rallies may slow buying from end-users, said  Louise Gartner , the owner of Spectrum Commodities in Beavercreek, Ohio.  “The fundamentals haven’t changed a lot, as far as
Australia goes,” Gartner said. “At this point, pretty much the
damage has been done to Australia’s crop.”  Wheat futures for March delivery slipped 0.75 cent, or 0.1
percent, to settle at $7.84 a bushel at 1:13 p.m. on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Yesterday, the price reached $8.11, the highest
since Aug. 6, before retreating. Prices have surged 63 percent
since the end of June as drought reduced production in Russia,
while dry weather in the U.S. Great Plains threatened winter
crops.  New South Wales, Australia’s largest wheat-producing state,
is suffering from the worst floods in 20 years, according to the
 State Emergency Service . Still, the Australian government said
yesterday that the country’s crop may reach a record 26.8
million metric tons after favorable weather early in the season.  New Forecasts  Prospects for a bigger crop may encourage the U.S.
Department of Agriculture to raise its forecast for Australian
production when the agency releases its global supply-and-demand
report on Dec. 10, Gartner said.  The USDA may report that world wheat inventories will be
171.3 million tons on May 31, less than 172.51 million estimated
last month, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 17 analysts.  Earlier, wheat rose as much as 1 percent on speculation
that more of the grain will be used for livestock feed after
record U.S. ethanol production sparked a rally in corn.  Ethanol output jumped 6.1 percent last week to a record
939,000 barrels a day, the Energy Department said. Production
soared as refiners took advantage of a 45-cent tax credit, set
to expire at the end of the year, for each gallon blended into
gasoline, said  Frank Cholly Sr ., a senior market strategist at
Lind-Waldock in Chicago. Corn, which competes with wheat
globally as a livestock feed, jumped as much as 2.4 percent.  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  