-- When $137 Million Changes Nothing There's Trouble: Joe Mysak
-- B y   J o e   M y s a k
-- 2010-12-08T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/when-137-million-changes-nothing-there-s-trouble-commentary-by-joe-mysak.html
In April 2000, 12 big municipal bond
underwriting firms agreed to pay $140 million to settle federal
allegations that they defrauded states and localities in how
they reinvested bond proceeds.  A five-year ordeal that had consumed the business was at an
end. Or was it?  Yesterday, Bank of America Corp. agreed to pay $137 million
to  settle  accusations it had defrauded states and localities, by
cheating them in the reinvestment of bond proceeds business.  The Bank of America settlement is the latest installment of
the federal government’s investigation into anticompetitive
practices in the municipal-bond industry, including bid-rigging,
price-fixing and kickback-paying.  This chapter sounds a little sexier, but it all comes down
to a pair of words I’ve come to dread over the last 15 years:
yield-burning. Will it never end?  In January, I will have been covering the municipal market
for 30 years. Yield-burning has consumed half of it.  ‘Just Right’  The key feature of municipal bonds is their exemption from
taxes. When municipalities sell tax-exempt bonds, they are
prohibited from reinvesting the cash and earning a profit.  The idea here is that it serves no public purpose for a
municipality to go out and borrow at 3 percent, and take the
money and invest it in something that pays 5 percent.  And municipalities do have to reinvest. If they are using
the proceeds to refinance an older bond, they take the money and
put it into something that will pay off the older bonds until
they mature or can be called. If the municipality is selling
bonds to build a school or a bridge, that construction can take
years; the money is drawn down over time.  It’s sort of like Goldilocks and the three bears. The
municipality has to reinvest its money into something that is
just right. Earn too little, and it loses money. Earn too much,
and it has to rebate the excess to the government. If it
doesn’t, and the Internal Revenue Service finds out about it,
the agency might declare the interest on the bonds taxable.  Bankers for years said that the real money was in the
reinvestment business. They would underwrite bonds for free,
some said, if they could get the reinvestment business. It was
conducted in the dark, by a relatively small group, and usually
nobody bothered to check the math.  Enter Lissack  So what happened? Way back in the early 1990s, some bankers
thought it would be clever to raise the prices on those
investments, at the time U.S. Treasury securities purchased in
the secondary market, to “burn down” the yield to the level
the municipalities were allowed to earn.  This was a profitable game, until a banker named  Michael Lissack  blew the whistle, and incidentally cashed in via a False
Claims Act lawsuit, entitling him to up to 25 percent of
whatever the federal government recovered. Lissack called the
feds in 1993, and in March 1995 was profiled on the front page
of the business section of the New York Times.  The government’s take on this yield-burning business is
that municipalities can’t make money on tax-exempt bond
proceeds, and they can’t give it away, say to bankers and
dealers, in the form of unreasonably high prices on
reinvestments.  Heart Sinks  In 2000, after five contentious years, the yield-burning
settlement was reached. And then in 2003, IRS officials said
they had discovered funny business in some audits. Issuers were
paying inflated prices for reinvestment products. The verdict:
Yield-burning.  In November 2006, the Justice Department said it was
investigating “anticompetitive practices” in the reinvestment
of proceeds business, but the probe had begun years before, with
those IRS audits. Similarly, in February 2007, Bank of America
said it had entered into a leniency agreement with the Justice
Department, and that it had been cooperating for some time.
According to a November 2009 lawsuit filed by the Sacramento
Municipal Utility District against Bank of America and a
laundry-list of other firms, the bank has been cooperating since
2004.  Unlike the last time around, this time people may go to
jail. Eight former bankers and financial advisers have already
pleaded guilty in connection with the investigation, and they
face fines and prison terms. Is this the end of yield burning?  I doubt it.  ( Joe Mysak  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Joe Mysak in New York at 
 jmysakjr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  