-- Yahoo Chief Says Facebook Is Bigger Rival Than Google
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2010-12-08T21:28:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/yahoo-ceo-has-no-plans-to-go-private-sees-buying-content-users.html
Yahoo! Inc.  Chief Executive Officer
 Carol Bartz  said social networking leader Facebook Inc. has
emerged as a bigger rival than Google Inc., owner of the biggest
Web-search engine.  “Our greatest competitor probably is Facebook, more so
than Google,” Bartz said at an event sponsored by Bloomberg
Businessweek in New York yesterday. “They’re a hot site, but
there’s room for more than one of anything.”  Bartz said her company once weighed buying closely held
Facebook for about $1 billion and that her acquisition strategy
is to focus on companies that bring users, content, engineers
and advertising technology. Yahoo is adding features to keep
from losing Web surfers to sites such as Facebook and  Twitter
Inc.  that make it easier to interact with friends.  The second-year CEO has cut costs, pared extraneous
products and focused Yahoo on news, sports and other content.
She also struck a partnership that lets Microsoft Corp. handle
the mechanics of Web search, while Yahoo oversees advertising
sales. She’s been less successful reviving growth and keeping
pace with newer, faster-growing Web companies.  As Facebook’s user base has surged past 500 million, its
value has risen to more than $40 billion, according to private-
share trading site  SharesPost Inc.  Yahoo, based in Sunnyvale,
California, has a market  capitalization  of $22.1 billion.  Not Going Private  Asked for her thoughts on whether Yahoo should go private,
Bartz said she has no plans to do so. She also said Yahoo will
remain useful to users because of its ability to personalize and
organize content from the Web’s 240 million sites.  “For the most part, people pretty much want this curated
for them,” she said.  Bartz also said Yahoo’s sales will “start really taking
off” in 2012. The company’s  third-quarter  revenue of $1.12
billion, excluding money passed on to partner sites, fell short
of the $1.13 billion average of analysts’  estimates , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yahoo rose 8 cents to $17.02 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The shares have gained 1.4 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
 Douglas MacMillan  in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  