-- Yuan Gain May Quicken as Trade Surplus Sparks Senate Protest: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-09T06:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/yuan-gain-may-quicken-as-trade-surplus-sparks-senate-protest-china-credit.html
China’s  trade surplus  may have
exceeded $21 billion in November, set to match the biggest
quarterly gap since 2008 and adding to pressure for yuan gains
to appease U.S. lawmakers and cool inflation.  The excess of  exports  over imports in the past five months
climbed to $114 billion, more than double the $55 billion total
for the first six months, the median of 30 analyst estimates in
a Bloomberg survey shows before a government report tomorrow.
The renminbi’s advance of 0.1 percent last month and 0.3 percent
in October fell short of the 1.7 percent climb in September that
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  signaled was appropriate.  China’s policy makers, seeking to curb the fastest
inflation in two years, may allow the yuan to rise 6.2 percent
by the end of 2011, the most among BRIC nations, according to a
Bloomberg survey of economists. Senate Foreign Relations
Committee Chairman  John Kerry  said this week that Congress is
“impatient” with the artificially low value of China’s yuan
and may impose legislation “with teeth” next year.  “The numbers are going in the wrong way,” said  Gary Hufbauer , a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in Washington. The current legislation
in Congress targeting China will be “only the first installment
unless there’s a fairly major shift in the Chinese currency
policy,” he said.  Exports Climbing  Geithner may have indicated to China to allow yuan gains of
about 1 percent a month, said Hufbauer, who previously worked at
the Treasury Department. Geithner said in an interview on the
“ Charlie Rose ” show aired on PBS Oct. 12 that the currency
should rise “at a gradual but still significant rate,” terming
the move since the start of September as “pretty significant.”  The yuan rose 0.1 percent to 6.6575 per dollar in Shanghai
as of 2:25 p.m. local time, taking its gain this month to 0.2
percent. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards reflect bets for
a 2.2 percent advance in the coming year. The median estimates
in Bloomberg surveys of economists are for the Russian ruble to
gain 4 percent by the end of 2011 and the Indian rupee 5 percent,
while the Brazilian real should drop 2 percent.  China’s exports for November may have climbed to about $140
billion, based on economists’ forecasts and previous data for
the same month in 2009. The estimate would be the third-biggest
monthly total, and compares with a record high of $145.5 billion
in July.  Yuan Gains  The forecast trade surplus would be the fifth this year of
more than $20 billion versus $19 billion a year earlier and $27
billion in October. A stronger currency could narrow the gap by
making Chinese products more expensive overseas.  Exports  climbed 23.6 percent in November from a year
earlier, the survey indicated, compared with a 22.9 percent
increase in October.  Imports  may have gained 24.5 percent after
rising 25.3 percent.  China’s Poltiburo announced Dec. 3 that the nation will
officially switch to a tighter monetary stance next year, as the
government seeks to damp inflation.  Ba Shusong , a researcher for
the cabinet, told the state-run People’s Daily that the nation
should allow “appropriate” appreciation in the yuan under the
new stance. The nation’s leaders warn excessive gains could cost
too many jobs and threaten social stability.  Inflation Surging  The pace of the yuan’s gains is likely to accelerate as
 inflation  rises and the trade surplus remains “high,” said
 Shen Jianguang , a Hong Kong-based economist at Mizuho Securities
Asia Ltd. who formerly worked for the International Monetary
Fund and the European Central Bank. Shen also expects interest
rates to rise by year-end, possibly as early as tomorrow.  Consumer prices probably increased 4.7 percent last month,
the most since August 2008, according to the median forecast of
29 economists surveyed by Bloomberg before government data due
Dec. 11.  McDonald’s Corp. , the world’s largest restaurant chain,
raised prices in China last month citing higher costs.  “The current uptrend in inflation has a lot in common with
the previous inflation cycle in 2007-2008,” said Shen. “But
with more domestic liquidity, a bigger asset bubble, and more
upward pressure on resources and labor, we expect the upward
pressure to be more severe this time.”  The People’s Bank of China raised lenders’ reserve
requirements twice last month and announced in October the first
interest-rate increase since 2007. The central bank will lift
its one-year lending and deposit rates by a percentage point
before the end of 2011, according to the median forecasts of
economists surveyed Dec. 2 by Bloomberg.  Bond Yields  The yield on China’s benchmark 10-year  bonds  reached 4.02
percent on Nov. 29, the highest level since September 2008. The
rate on the 3.67 percent note due in October 2020 rose one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.82 percent yesterday. One-
year interest-rate  swaps  based on the floating seven-day
repurchase  rate  climbed 11 basis points yesterday to 3.06
percent.  The People’s Bank of China won’t sell three-year bills in
today’s open-market operations amid cooling demand from banks,
which are demanding higher yields. The central bank said it will
sell 5 billion yuan ($751 million) of three-month bills and
refrain from offering notes due in three years, halting bi-
weekly auctions of the longer-dated securities, according to a
statement on its website.  Five-year contracts to protect against non-payment of
China’s debt rose 4 basis points yesterday to 71, according to
CMA prices in London. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government fail to adhere to debt agreements.  U.S. Visit  Chinese President  Hu Jintao  will face criticism from a new
U.S. Congress when he visits Washington in January. Vice Premier
 Wang Qishan  will also visit the U.S. this month for meetings on
trade. In a Dec. 6 letter to Wang, a group of 30 senators said
that the “House of Representatives recently passed legislation
intended to address persistent currency undervaluation by U.S.
trading partners, and the U.S. Senate may follow suit.”  China had a $151 billion trade surplus with the U.S. in the
first 10 months of this year, while posting deficits with Japan
and Association of South East Asian Nations this year, according
to Chinese data.  “China’s unwillingness to allow for significant currency
appreciation even as its trade surplus continues to balloon will
ratchet up tensions” before Hu’s visit, said  Eswar Prasad , a
senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and a professor at
Cornell University. Tensions may “boil over into legislative
action,” he said.  -- Rebecca Christie ,  Paul Panckhurst . With assistance from
 Chinmei Sung  and  Jay Wang . Editors:  Paul Panckhurst , Garfield
Reynolds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  