-- South Korean Bonds Gain as Central Bank Holds Rate; Won Drops
-- Bob Chen
-- 2010-03-11T07:59:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-03-11/south-korean-bonds-gain-as-central-bank-holds-rate-won-drops.html

          
          
             South Korea’s three-year government
bonds rose, driving the yield to an eight-month low, after the
central bank kept  interest rates  unchanged at a record low to
support a pickup in the economy. The won weakened.  
 The notes gained for a third day after the  Bank of Korea 
said in a statement after today’s decision that it “will
maintain the accommodative policy stance for the time being in
such a way as to help sustain the trend of recovery in economic
activity.” The government pressed Governor Lee Seong Tae Lee,
whose term expires March 31, to hold down rates as  unemployment 
soared and sovereign-debt concerns in  Europe  weighed on markets.  
 “The tilt has clearly shifted back to global growth
concerns, with the statement hinting that inflation pressures
will remain stable for some time,” said Wai Ho Leong, an
economist at Barclays Plc in  Singapore . “Demand for bonds from
money managers will likely continue biasing yields lower.”  
 The yield on the 4.25 percent note due December 2012 fell
10 basis points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 3.98 percent as of
3:12 p.m. in  Seoul , according to Korea Stock Exchange. That was
the lowest level since July 14.  
 The five-year bond yield declined 12 basis points to 4.46
percent, the least in four months.  
 Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun told reporters on March 8
that “it is the government’s firm belief that it is not the
right time for rate hikes” as business investment is weak and
prices are at manageable levels.  
 Won Weakens  
 The central bank kept the seven-day repurchase  rate  at 2
percent, a decision forecast by all but one of 14 economists
 surveyed  by  Bloomberg News . Since January, Governor Lee has had
to accept a vice finance minister sitting in on rate meetings.  
 The won retreated from a seven-week high on speculation
 Korea Electric Power Corp. (015760) , the nation’s biggest power company,
bought dollars to hedge against its foreign-exchange position,
said Tae-Shin Park, a bond and currency trader at Societe
Generale SA in Seoul.  
 “There was some news that Kepco will need to buy $500
million, that pushed up the dollar-won from the low,” said Park.
“The rate decision also played a part.”  
 The won weakened 0.2 percent to 1,133.43 per dollar as of
the 3 p.m. close, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
earlier appreciated as much as 0.4 percent to 1,126.23, the
strongest level since Jan. 19.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 bchen45@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        