-- Google Wins Yahoo Support for OpenSocial, Forms Group
-- Ari Levy
-- 2008-03-25T20:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-03-25/google-wins-yahoo-support-for-opensocial-forms-group-update3-.html

          
          
             Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the most
popular Internet search engine, said rival  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  will
support its OpenSocial software, allowing developers to put their
programs on a broader range of social-networking sites.  
 Yahoo, Google and  News Corp. (NWSA) 's MySpace are forming the non-profit OpenSocial Foundation to promote the technology.
OpenSocial, introduced in October, may help developers save time
and money by letting them create a single application that works
on multiple sites.  
 Teaming with Yahoo gives the alliance the backing of the
most visited U.S. Web site. Google and sites such as MySpace, the
most popular social-networking page, have sought more programs to
appeal to users as they compete for advertising revenue in a
market that may grow 69 percent in the next three years.  
 ``Google has been doing a great job of shepherding the
community to some degree,'' Yahoo Vice President Wade Chambers
said on a conference call. ``It's a community-based effort and I
think that this just really takes them to the next step.''  
 Internet users  have flocked to social sites where they can
keep up with their friends, show pictures, share music and play
games. Visitors to Facebook surged fourfold to 100.7 million in
January from a year earlier, while MySpace's users rose 15
percent to 109.3 million in that period, according to Reston,
Virginia-based researcher ComScore Inc.  
 The increased popularity is luring advertisers eager to
target Web users based on their age, location and hobbies. Ad
spending on social networks in the U.S. may jump to $2.7 billion
by 2011, according to EMarketer Inc. in  New York .  
 Early Partners  
 The alliance may help Yahoo make headway in the social-networking market, where Facebook and MySpace have won an
increasing share of graphical banner ads. Spending on social-networking sites more than doubled last year, while sales growth
at Yahoo slowed to 8 percent from 22 percent in 2006.  
 Mountain View , California-based Google recruited networking
sites  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) , Friendster Inc. and Marc Andreessen's Ning
Inc. as early OpenSocial supporters, as well as business software
makers  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and Salesforce.com Inc.  
 Google fell $9.78 to $450.78 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market  trading , while Yahoo, based in Sunnyvale,
California, rose $1.21 to $28.73. New York-based News Corp.'s
Class A shares advanced 18 cents to $19.14.  
 Assets will be allocated to the nonprofit by July 1, the
companies said today in a statement.  
 (The companies held a conference call earlier today. For a
replay, dial +1-888-203-1112 in the U.S. or +1-719-457-0820
internationally.)  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at 
 fantonelli@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        