-- Banks Will Rue Rushing to Repay Bailouts: David Pauly
-- David Pauly
-- 2009-12-17T13:20:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-12-17/banks-will-rue-rushing-to-repay-bailouts-david-pauly-update1-.html

          
          
             This is a fool’s rush. America’s
largest banks are tripping over themselves to get out of the
clutches of the government.  
 Bank of America Corp .,  Wells Fargo & Co.  and  Citigroup Inc .
this month sold almost $50 billion in equity.  
 The money will be used to help repay $90 billion the banks
got in rescue funds from the U.S. Treasury Department after the
subprime mortgage disaster. What a waste.  
 Banks should have added the new funds to their capital.
With stronger balance sheets, they could lend more to U.S.
businesses -- something they were supposed to do with the
taxpayers’ money and haven’t. What’s more, they would have more
in reserve for the next spectacular failure by their trading
desks.  
 In their hurry to pay back the government, the banks ignore
the possibility that the economy might slip back into recession,
further ravaging their profits. If they have a real need to
raise capital in 2010, they might not find the markets as
willing as they have been this year.  
 It’s amazing how much investors already have sunk into the
banks, considering how the companies’ stock sales this year have
diluted their earnings per share.  
 Bank of America, the nation’s largest bank by deposits, has
almost doubled its  shares outstanding , to 9.9 billion from 5
billion at the end of 2008.  Brian Moynihan , newly named to
succeed the harried  Kenneth Lewis  as chief executive at the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank, will have to work twice as
hard to increase profit per share.  
 Stressful Times  
 Wells Fargo , based in San Francisco and ranked No. 4 in
deposits, now has 5.1 billion shares against 4.2 billion at the
end of last year. Like Bank of America, it sold shares earlier
this year after government “stress tests” found its capital
wanting.  
 Weighted against this dilution, the banks’ reasons for a
fast repayment of money they got under the Troubled Asset Relief
Program look weak:  
 1) We need to get rid of government pay restrictions to
keep our valued employees from being poached by banks that have
already repaid the government.  
 Sorry, but rivals stole employees -- often whole teams --
when these people were being paid at record levels.  
 2) We can’t resume the hefty cash bonuses we paid in the
good old days with the government looking over our shoulder.  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., even after shedding government
oversight by repaying its TARP money, has begun shifting bonuses
to restricted stock, from cash.  
 Stigmatized Already  
 3) We need to get rid of the stigma of having the
government involved in our business.  
 Do these companies really think that repaying bailout money
will make investors and the public forget that their reckless
trading almost ruined the world economy?  
 The banks should concentrate on becoming better-financed
institutions. While U.S. taxpayers want to be repaid, there’s
time. A few months from now, the big banks will be sorry they
didn’t hang onto the $50 billion they raised in the market --
and investors will be sorry they gave it up.  
 ( David Pauly  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 David Pauly  in Normandy Beach, New Jersey 
 dpauly@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Dec. 15 (Bloomberg) -- Dick Bove, an analyst at Rochdale Securities LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman about the outlook for Wells Fargo & Co.' and the bank's plan to sell $10.65 billion of common stock to help repay funds borrowed from the Troubled Asset Relief Program.
     Bove also discusses the impact of government regulations on bank lending practices, the outlook for Citigroup Inc. and the state of the banking industry. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Dec. 15 (Bloomberg) -- Jason Tyler, senior vice president of portfolio management at Ariel Investments LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Erik Schatzker about the repayment of Troubled Asset Relief Program funds by banks.
     Tyler, speaking from Chicago, also discusses efforts by the Obama administration to boost lending and Bank of America Corp.'s search for a new chief executive officer. Bank of New York Mellon Corp. CEO Robert Kelly, a candidate for the BofA position, told his employees yesterday that he won't leave his job, according to a memo obtained by Bloomberg. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
