-- Sensitive Cars Are Safer, Less Fun to Drive: Jason H. Harper
-- Jason H. Harper
-- 2009-12-17T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-12-17/sensitive-cars-are-safer-less-fun-to-drive-jason-h-harper.html

          
          
             Warning: You may soon find that your
car is taking over for you.  
 Lately I’ve been testing more and more automobiles that
seem at times determined to outsmart me and in some cases
partially drive themselves. Many of these autonomous features
are safety-minded, though some are a bit silly or simply
wrongheaded.  
 Then there’s the car that watches you while you drive it.
Creepy.  
 From Lexus and Mercedes to Infiniti, many new models boast
multiple cameras and radar sensors. One can alert you to other
cars in your blind spots, another will shake you awake when
you’re distracted and one even hits the brakes if it thinks
you’re headed for a crash.  
 The least-intrusive and most-helpful of these are blind-
spot monitors. Since my first experience with the clever
technology, on an Audi Q7, I’ve found similar systems on cars
from Ford, Jaguar, Mazda and Land Rover.  
 If another car is lurking in your blind spot or approaching
alongside at speed, when you put your blinker on, a warning
light embedded in the side-view mirror will flash (and sometimes
set off a beep or gong).  
 Rear Window  
 This is especially helpful in vehicles with sloping roofs
or thick “C” pillars that obscure rear views, thus allowing
you to keep your peepers on the road.  
 The 2011 Infiniti M sedan will actually steer you back into
your lane if it detects movement into the path of another car.
Whether you want that level of electronic intervention is your
business. Call me a control freak, but I prefer to keep my fate
in my own hands.  
 Unfortunately, many of the new gizmos are needed not
because of design faults, but because of deficiencies in
ourselves. We bring our multi-tasking lives inside our cars, and
car makers must find ways to make up for all the texting,
eating, makeup-applying and radio fiddling.  
 Not to go all dad-like on you, but we wouldn’t need these
pricey options if we had better driver education in the U.S. or,
you know, just paid more attention. One of the fundamental
glories of driving is the act of taking control of a 4,000-pound
piece of machinery and the attendant responsibility that comes
with it.  
 Laser Alert  
 Instead we get the Volvo XC60’s “City Safety” system,
which at speeds under 20 mph will actually stop the car
completely when an optical laser senses an impending bang-up. So
feel free to text in rush-hour traffic with impunity.  
 Better, perhaps, is the Mercedes-Benz “pre-safe brake
system” found on the new E-Class. It first sounds a warning if
you’re approaching another car too quickly. If you fail to
respond (“Where’s that hard-rock station anyhow?”), it will
begin to slow the car and pre-load the brakes -- at that point
even a half-hearted application of the pedal will engage the
brakes fully. Many drivers don’t use the 100 percent potential
of their brakes even in accident situations, and Mercedes’s
system makes up for that.  
 Lane-departure warning systems are also more common. Some
are subtle and welcome, such as the one in the E-Class in which
the steering wheel lightly tremors in your hand if you stray
over a lane without using a turn signal. Others, such as
Infiniti’s lane prevention system, actually brake an outside
wheel to actively pull you back into the lane.  
 Just Stop It  
 The latter system drives me crazy, especially in congested
cities like New York, where the dotted line is more a suggestion
than an imperative. (Blind-spot sensors also tend to go crazy in
clusters of cabs.)  
 Ever feel like you’re being watched? You’re neither
paranoid nor delusional if you’re inside several Lexus models,
including the new HS 250h sedan. It’s got an infrared camera on
the steering column that reads your face, constantly checking to
see if you’re looking forward. If you aren’t and other sensors
detect a possible collision, a warning chimes.  
 Like the Mercedes, the monitor is linked to a system that
will prepare the brakes for 100-percent effectiveness.  
 Or how about sensors worthy of the Cold War? BMW 7 Series
has available Night Vision. The GPS navigation screen doubles as
a monitor that shows the world as ghostly images of black and
white and glowing heat signatures from cars, humans and animals.
It’ll even warn if a pedestrian is headed into your path. Neat,
though also in keeping with BMW’s tendency toward technological
overkill.  
 Lastly, there are the cars that really do drive themselves.
Or park themselves, anyhow. Lexus offers an Advanced Parking
Guidance System which I tested in the LS 460 L luxury sedan. It
required a really large space and was nearly as complicated as
learning to parallel park in the first place.  
 Ford has jumped into the fray with its own system, found on
several new Lincoln models and the Ford Flex.  
 Certainly much of this technology is crafty, and some of it
may even make the roads safer. Still, I find some of it vaguely
unsettling. You did see “I, Robot,” right?  
 (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Dec. 18 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg auto columnist Jason Harper talks with Matt Miller about safety-minded technology in new cars, including blind-spot monitors. He also discusses the shuttering of General Motors Co.'s Saab unit in Sweden. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
