-- Apollo to Cut California Pension Fees $125 Million, End Placement Agents
-- Cristina Alesci
-- 2010-04-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-19/apollo-to-cut-calpers-fees-over-five-years-end-use-of-placement-agents.html

          
          
             Apollo Global Management LLC agreed
to cut fees it charges the California Public Employees’
Retirement System by $125 million over the next five years and
end the use of placement agents.  
 The fee reductions will apply to funds managed solely for
Sacramento, California-based Calpers, the largest U.S. public
pension at $212 billion, according to a joint statement
yesterday. Calpers agreed to fund all existing capital
commitments with Apollo.  
 “Bringing $125 million into the Calpers pension fund is a
game changer,” said Rob Feckner, president of the Calpers
board. “It brings a large sum of money to the fund, and it
sends a signal on how other money managers can align their
interest with those of our members.”  
 The concessions mark the biggest victory for Chief
Investment Officer Joseph Dear since he joined the pension a
year ago and started pushing for lower fees and better terms
from asset managers following record losses. Calpers has
committed more than $4 billion to Apollo, of which $943 million
remained untapped by the New York-based firm as of June 30,
according to the pension plan’s Web site.  
 “The benefits we are receiving from Apollo as part of our
strategic relationship will substantially enhance returns for
our beneficiaries on investments with Apollo,” Dear said in the
statement.  
 23% Loss  
 Calpers, which manages retirement and health-care benefits
for 1.6 million current and retired public workers, lost 23
percent in the fiscal year ending June 2009 as the global
financial crisis erased six years of earnings.  
 “We recognize that the priorities and strategic interests
of Calpers have evolved under its current leadership, which has
sought to lower costs, increase transparency and eliminate the
need to use placement agents,” Leon Black, chief executive
officer of Apollo, said in the statement. Apollo had more than
$53 billion in assets under management as of Dec. 31, in private
equity, credit-oriented capital markets and real estate.  
 Calpers has been one of the leading supporters of new
guidelines for institutional investors proposed by the
Institutional Limited Partners Association, which seek to give
fund clients more rights and lower fees. The ILPA guidelines,
issued in September and endorsed by more than 100 group members,
mark a shift in relations between buyout funds and clients, who
historically accepted the terms manager set.  
 Placement Agents  
 Calpers also sponsored state legislation that would
prohibit money managers from dangling contingency fees in front
of middlemen who help win pension-fund contracts. The pension
has disclosed that a former board member received more than $59
million soliciting business for investment companies such as
Apollo Management LP.  
 Apollo said it agreed to provide Calpers with a
certification, each quarter, representing that it hasn’t used or
paid placement agents in connection with securing business from
Calpers.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 Calesci2@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        