-- Asia, Europe Sovereign Wealth Funds Grow by 19%, State Street Survey Says
-- Bei Hu
-- 2010-04-19T06:28:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-19/asia-europe-sovereign-wealth-funds-grow-by-19-state-street-survey-says.html

          
          
             Sovereign wealth funds in Asia-
Pacific, Europe, Middle East and Africa increased assets by 19
percent over nine months, according to a survey of 12 clients by
State Street Corp., the world’s third-largest custody bank.  
 Total assets of the funds rose to $136 billion by September,
from $114.5 billion at the end of 2008, said State Street Global
Advisors, the bank’s investment management unit. State Street
declined to identify the funds in the survey, citing client
confidentiality.  
 Sovereign wealth funds have benefited from a stock market
rebound and new capital inflows, the survey said, as the MSCI
World Index gained 27 percent last year, the strongest annual
surge since 2003. Thirty-nine percent of the funds’ assets, or
$53.1 billion, were invested in equities by September, the
survey said, as the amount of stock investments jumped 64
percent from December 2008, reflecting both valuation gains of
shares already held and decisions to boost stock investments.  
 “There’s an increase in risk appetite,” said Hon Cheung,
Singapore-based regional director of State Street Global
Advisors’ Asia official institutions group, in an interview in
Hong Kong today. “There’s been a shift out of cash and into
higher-risk assets.”  
 Funds seeking to increase their higher-risk, higher-return
investments after the financial crisis initially raised
allocations to passive or enhanced products which set targets
based on benchmarks, Cheung said. They may channel more capital
to active investment strategies as early as this year, he added.  
 Faster Growth  
 The six funds in Asia-Pacific expanded assets by 41 percent
to $14.9 billion in the nine months. Their six peers in Europe,
Middle East and Africa increased assets 17 percent to $121.1
billion, the survey found.  
 The faster growth of the Asian funds partly reflects their
stronger performances as they held higher amounts of cash going
into 2009 and invested a larger percentage of assets in stocks
as the market surged, the survey said.  
 State Street estimated $2.3 trillion of Asia’s $5.1
trillion foreign-exchange reserves are surplus to central bank
needs, Cheung said. Those excess reserves are currently managed
too conservatively and can be redeployed to sovereign wealth
funds to generate higher returns, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        