-- India Starts Probe of IPL Cricket Finances After Minister Tharoor Resigns
-- Bibhudatta Pradhan
-- 2010-04-20T07:56:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-19/india-starts-cricket-league-investigation-after-minister-tharoor-resigns.html

          
          
             India is investigating the funding
and operation of a lucrative cricket tournament after a minister
quit over allegations he influenced the awarding of a franchise.  
 Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee told lawmakers the
government won’t spare anyone in its probe of the Indian Premier
League. Junior Foreign Minister Shashi Tharoor, 54, resigned
after dismissing opposition claims he benefitted from free
shares given to a friend by Rendezvous Sports World Ltd., which
heads the group that won bidding for the IPL team in southern
Kerala state with a $333 million offer.  
 An investigation into the IPL issue by “the concerned
department” has already begun, Mukherjee said in Parliament
yesterday. “All aspects of the IPL, including its source of
funding, from where the funds were routed, how they have been
invested” are being looked into “and the appropriate action”
will be taken, he said.  
 IPL Commissioner Lalit Modi welcomed any probe. Posting his
comments on Twitter Inc., he said he will cooperate with
investigators. Modi was unavailable for comment today, said
Jitendra Jha, an executive at Adfactors PR, IPL’s public
relations agency.  
 Political Controversy  
 Mukherjee’s response came as some opposition members in
Parliament demanded action against the league. In a statement to
Parliament today Tharoor said he had done nothing improper.  
 “In view of the ongoing political controversy, I have no
desire to be an embarrassment to the government and believe that
my departure at this stage will allow the prime minister and his
cabinet colleagues to focus on the great challenges facing our
nation,” he said.  
 The eight teams playing in this season’s IPL tournament
include owners such as Mukesh Ambani, the world’s fourth-richest
man and chairman of Reliance Industries Ltd.; billionaire Vijay
Mallya, chairman of UB Group; and movie star Shah Rukh Khan.  
 The league’s appreciation outpaced last year’s 81 percent
gain in India’s benchmark Sensitive Index, the most in 18 years.  
 The IPL, which plays a three-hour version of the
traditional five-day game, has more than doubled its brand value
to $4.13 billion from $2.01 billion in 2009, according to Brand
Finance Plc. U.K. soccer team Manchester United was valued at
$1.87 billion in April 2009, while American football franchise
the Dallas Cowboys was worth $1.65 billion, according to Forbes
magazine’s ranking of the world’s most valuable sports teams.  
 Tax Probe  
 The Income Tax department sent a notice to the Board of
Control for Cricket in India with questions on the owners of IPL
teams, their balance sheets, income earned during the tournament
and money paid to players, the Business Standard reported today,
citing a finance ministry official it didn’t name.  
 The decision by Tharoor, a former UN undersecretary general,
to step down ended a year in office punctuated by embarrassments
to the ruling Congress party including a five-star hotel stay
during the government’s austerity drive and controversial tweets
on his Twitter account.  
 Tharoor, who has lived overseas for most of his life, was
elected to the lower house of Parliament for the first time last
year and appointed to a senior position in India’s foreign
ministry.  
 In September, he vacated a luxury hotel after a senior
minister advised him to stay in a government-allotted house as
the coalition grappled with ways to cut expenditure. Tharoor
said he was paying his own bill as his official house was
prepared.  
 Tharoor was criticized by party colleagues after posting a
Twitter message saying he would be flying “cattle class out of
solidarity with all our holy cows,” as Congress cut back on
official expenses.  
 The cow is considered sacred by Hindus.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Shashi Tharoor  
                       
                         
                           Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Shashi Tharoor, India's former minister of state for external affairs, listens to speakers at the World Economic Forum's India Economic Summit in New Delhi, on Nov. 11, 2009. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Shashi Tharoor, India's former minister of state for external affairs, listens to speakers at the World Economic Forum's India Economic Summit in New Delhi, on Nov. 11, 2009. Photographer: Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
