-- Japan's Bonds Fall, Snap Five-Day Gain, on Stocks, Economic Growth Outlook
-- Theresa Barraclough
-- 2010-04-20T07:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-19/japan-s-bonds-may-snap-5-day-drop-after-stocks-rose-on-split-goldman-vote.html

          
          
             Japan’s bonds fell, snapping a
five-day gain, as reports that U.S. regulators were split on
suing Goldman Sachs Group Inc. boosted Asian stocks.  
 Ten-year yields also rose from near the lowest level in
five weeks as economists said the Bank of Japan will probably
raise estimates for growth and inflation in its semiannual
outlook report April 30. Securities and Exchange Commission
officials voted 3-2 to pursue the case against Goldman, people
with knowledge of the matter said, easing concern about
increased scrutiny of banks and damping demand for debt.  
 Japanese bonds “are following overseas market moves, and
there may be a sharp correction given the rally yesterday,”
said Tetsuya Miura, chief market analyst in Tokyo at Mizuho
Securities Co., a unit of Japan’s second-largest banking group.  
 The yield on the 1.4 percent bond due March 2020 rose one
basis point to 1.325 percent as of 4:46 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan
Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker.
The price fell 0.089 yen to 100.656 yen. Yields dropped to 1.305
percent yesterday, the lowest since March 11.  
 Bond futures for June delivery declined 0.04 to 139.25 at
the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  
 Ten-year Treasuries fell yesterday, pushing yields up four
basis points and widening their yield advantage over similar-
dated Japanese debt to 2.48 percentage points.  
 Stocks Gain  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares climbed 0.4 percent,
snapping a two-day drop. Stocks slumped worldwide on April 16,
when the SEC’s suit against Goldman Sachs spurred concern
fallout from the financial crisis isn’t over.  
 The decline in bonds was tempered as companies, including
life insurers, said they planned to buy more government debt.  
 Sumitomo Life Insurance Co., the fourth-largest life
insurer with about 20 trillion yen ($217 billion) in assets,
intends to boost yen-denominated bond holdings this financial
year to secure stable returns.  
 “Based on our goal of asset liability management, yen-
denominated bonds continue to be our core investment target,”
Iwao Matsumoto, Osaka-based deputy general manager of investment
planning, said in a story published yesterday. “The global
economic recovery has slowly gathered pace, but it’s still not a
strong enough trend and risks continue to exist.”  
 Withdrawing Stimulus  
 Sumitomo Life joins Dai-ichi Life Insurance Co., and Meiji
Yasuda Life Insurance Co. in betting on the safety of fixed-
income investments, amid signs governments may withdraw stimulus
measures that have helped lift Japanese exports and the economy.  
 Japanese bonds have handed investors a return of 0.6
percent this month, heading for the largest gain since a 0.8
percent increase in November, according to indexes compiled by
Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit.  
 The Bank of Japan said on April 15 it increased its
economic assessment in seven of Japan’s nine areas. All local
economies “had picked up, although there remained differences
in the pace and extent of the recovery,” the bank said.  
 “The contents of the BOJ’s semi-annual outlook report will
likely start to be reflected” in the bond market, Chotaro
Morita, head of bond strategy at Barclays Capital Japan Ltd.,
wrote in a report.  
 Japan’s economy has been picking up, BOJ Governor Masaaki
Shirakawa told lawmakers today in Tokyo. He said earlier this
month that beating deflation remains a “critical challenge”
and pledged to keep an “accommodative” policy. Shirakawa also
said the decline in consumer prices will keep moderating as the
economy improves.  
 Traders see consumer prices dropping an average 0.9 percent
over the next five years, as measured by the difference in yield
between inflation-linked bonds and conventional debt.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Theresa Barraclough in Tokyo at 
 tbarraclough@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        