-- Stranded Holidaymakers Use Taxis, Pay Strangers to Drive Them Home to U.K.
-- Howard Mustoe
-- 2010-04-19T14:57:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-19/holidaymakers-use-taxis-pay-strangers-to-stop-volcanic-ash-ruining-plans.html

          
          
             Holidaymakers are hiring taxis and
paying strangers in a bid to stop Icelandic volcano ash from
ruining their plans as airspace in Europe is closed for a fifth
day.  
 Eight amateur ice hockey players shelled out a total of
1,600 euros ($2,150) for two taxis to take them home to Britain
after playing in a tournament in the Czech Republic, said one of
the skaters, Kelly McKenney, European sales director for
Tradeweb Europe Ltd. They left the town of Marianske Lazne this
morning, aiming to arrive in London in the early hours of
tomorrow, he said.  
 “We figured the best-case scenario of getting a flight was
towards the end of the week, so may as well look for a plan B,”
said McKenney, 45, who was due to fly back yesterday evening
after playing in the Budweiser Cup tournament. “I feel like
Chevy Chase right now” in the film European Vacation, he said.  
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG, Air France-KLM Group and airline-
industry groups are pressing European governments to loosen the
unprecedented closing of the region’s airspace from last week’s
eruption of the Eyjafjallajökull volcano, as losses from the
grounding of aircraft pile up.  
 McKenney and his teammates plan to reach the French port of
Boulogne and take an 11:45 p.m. LD Lines ferry to Dover,
England. Their trip follows Monty Python comedian John Cleese’s
$5,100 cab ride from Oslo to Brussels on April 16 when the dust
plume from Iceland left him stranded.  
 ‘No Cheap Fares’  
 The grounding of jetliners at airports from Dublin to
Moscow means demand for alternative transport is increasing,
raising prices or halting travel plans.  
 “The first available Eurostar was Wednesday and that was
going to be 220 pounds; there’s no cheap fares,” McKenney said.  
 Marc Obrador, 36, a Catalan teacher living in the Spanish
town of Sitges, was offered 1,000 euros plus fuel costs and
motorway tolls to drive two English holidaymakers, Malcolm
George, 73, and Ann George, 69, back to the U.K. so they can
close a real estate deal.  
 “They need to be there because they need to close some
business and it’s very important for them to be on time,”
Obrador said. “They said they were desperate to go and they’d
pay me up to 1,000 euros to get there.”  
 He plans to spend a week in London visiting a friend and
says the money ought to cover his holiday. After setting off
tomorrow, he will cross by ferry from Boulogne to Dover and
drive on to London. The journey will take about 15 hours,
according to Google Maps.  
 Obrador met the couple in a hotel while browsing the
Internet and heard them discussing how they’d get home. “I
said, I’m thinking of going to the U.K.,” he said. “Finally
the man changed my mind.”  
 At least 63,000 flights have been canceled since the April
14 eruption spewed dust across Europe’s airspace. The ash cloud
may spread to Canada’s east coast today, according to the U.K.’s
Met Office, the national weather service.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 19 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Melissa Long reports on the travelers stranded at airports after flights into and out of northern Europe were restricted because of the volcanic dust cloud covering the region. (Source: Bloomberg)

  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 19 (Bloomberg) -- Neil Buckley of the Financial Times' Lex commentary team talks with Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton about air travel disruptions due to the Icelandic volcanic ash cloud and the impact on the airline industry. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
