-- Homestore Ex-Chief Wolff Gets 4 1/2 Year Term for `Calculated Deception'
-- Edvard Pettersson
-- 2010-04-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-19/homestore-ex-chief-wolff-gets-4-1-2-year-term-for-calculated-deception-.html

          
          
             Former Homestore Inc. Chief
Executive Officer Stuart Wolff was sentenced to 4 1/2 years in
prison after pleading guilty in January to conspiracy to commit
securities fraud.  
 U.S. District Judge Gary Feess at a hearing yesterday in
Los Angeles rejected arguments by Wolff’s lawyer for a three-
year term, the low end under his plea deal with prosecutors. The
judge said Wolff, 46, with a doctorate in electrical engineering
from Princeton University, must have known that what he did was
inappropriate and morally wrong.  
 “This was a very calculated deception of the public,”
Feess said. “He knew what was going on, and he knew it was
wrong when it was happening.”  
 Wolff’s lawyer, John Gibbons, said his client knew what he
did was wrong and that it was out of character. At the time of
the 2001 fraud, Wolff was part of the “go-go-go” generation of
young entrepreneurs swept up in the Internet bubble, the lawyer
told the judge.  
 “He wasn’t doing what a morally bereft person would have
done,” Gibbons said.  
 Wolff didn’t address the court at the hearing.  
 In 2006, Wolff was sentenced to 15 years in prison after a
jury found him guilty of directing a $67 million fraud aimed at
boosting the online home-listings company’s stock price. That
conviction was thrown out in 2008 when a U.S. appeals court said
the trial judge, who owned shares of America Online Inc., a
business partner of Homestore, had a conflict of interest.  
 Round-Trip Deals  
 Prosecutors claimed Homestore, which ran an online real
estate site now known as Move.com, used intermediary vendors to
pay companies including AOL to buy advertising on its site.
Homestore improperly recorded revenue from the so-called round-
trip deals, prosecutors claimed.  
 Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael Wilner asked Feess to
sentence Wolff to five years in prison, the longest possible
term under his plea deal. Wilner said Wolff shouldn’t get
additional credit for pleading guilty because he refused to come
forward and answer questions for almost eight years.  
 The case is U.S. v. Wolff, 2:05-cr-00398, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        