-- Goldman Sachs CDO Lawsuit Split SEC Commissioners in 3-2 Vote
-- Jesse Westbrook
-- 2010-04-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-19/sec-said-to-vote-3-2-along-party-lines-to-sue-goldman-over-cdo-disclosures.html

          
          
             The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission split 3-2 along party lines to approve an enforcement
case against  Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., according to two people
with knowledge of the vote.  
 SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  sided with Democrats Luis Aguilar and Elisse Walter to approve the case filed on April 16,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the vote
wasn’t public. Republican commissioners Kathleen Casey and Troy Paredes voted against suing, the people said yesterday.  
 Schapiro, an independent appointed by Democratic President  Barack Obama , cast the deciding vote in a high-profile case for
the second time this year. In February, she sided with Democrats
in a $150 million settlement with  Bank of America Corp . tied to
its takeover of Merrill Lynch & Co.  
 “She’s not worried about consensus because ultimately,
this case is going to be decided by a  jury trial ,” said  Peter Henning , a former federal prosecutor and SEC attorney who
teaches at  Wayne State University Law School  in Detroit. “It
might help Goldman a little bit in the public-relations battle
to show that there is division.”  
 The SEC accused Goldman Sachs, the most profitable firm in
Wall Street history, of creating and selling collateralized debt
obligations tied to subprime mortgages without disclosing that
hedge fund Paulson & Co. helped pick the underlying securities.
Goldman Sachs also didn’t disclose to investors that Paulson was
betting against the securities, the SEC said.  
 SEC spokesmen  John Nester  declined to comment.  
 Public Outrage  
 Goldman Sachs said in a statement last week that the SEC’s
allegations are “completely unfounded in law and fact.” The
company, led by Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein , 55,
said it will “vigorously” contest the case and “defend the
firm and its reputation.”  
 Shares of Goldman Sachs plunged 13 percent on April 16
after the SEC announced its case. The stock rose $2.62, or 1.6
percent, to $163.32 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  
 Schapiro, 55, has bucked consensus in approving enforcement
cases and new regulations. In February, she joined Aguilar and
Walter in 3-2 votes for rules to restrict bearish stock bets and
to encourage companies to disclose how  climate change  may alter
financial results.  
 The vote on short-sale restrictions prompted Erik Sirri, a
former head of the SEC’s division of trading and markets under
Schapiro, to say the agency made a political decision rather
than one based on market data.  
 Sought Consensus  
 Schapiro’s predecessor, Christopher Cox, tried to seek
consensus on SEC actions, triggering criticism from investors
that he wouldn’t take on contentious cases or rules. Cox stepped
down as SEC chairman in January 2009.  
 Goldman Sachs, which reports first-quarter earnings today,
was warned nine months ago by the SEC that agency investigators
wanted to bring a case, people with direct knowledge of the
talks said. The company made counter-arguments in response to
the so-called Wells notice before disclosing to investors in
March that it was cooperating with regulators.  
 The SEC didn’t tell the company that it planned to file its
suit on April 16, which Goldman Sachs interpreted as a sign the
agency has become unusually adversarial, according to a person
close to the firm.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in  Washington  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alec McCabe at   amccabe@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Mary Schapiro, chairman of the U.S. SEC  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Mary Schapiro, chairman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, speaks during the Women in Finance Symposium at the Treasury Department in Washington, D.C., on March 29, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Mary Schapiro, chairman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, speaks during the Women in Finance Symposium at the Treasury Department in Washington, D.C., on March 29, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 19 (Bloomberg) -- Christopher Whalen, managing director of Institutional Risk Analytics, talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman about the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's fraud suit against Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 19 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Representative Elijah Cummings, a Maryland Democrat, talks with Bloomberg's Carol Massar and Matt Miller about the Security and Exchange Commission's lawsuit against Goldman Sachs Group Inc. 
     The SEC split 3-2 along party lines to approve the enforcement case against Goldman Sachs, according to two people with knowledge of the vote. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 20 (Bloomberg) -- Chizu Nakajima, director of the Centre Financial Regulation and Crime at Cass Business School, spoke yesterday with Bloomberg's Maryam Nemazee about the investigation into Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A file photo of the the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
