-- Aberdeen Sees Buy Opportunity for East Europe Debt on West's Debt Crisis
-- Laura Price
-- 2010-06-24T12:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/aberdeen-sees-buy-opportunity-for-east-europe-debt-on-west-s-debt-crisis.html

          
          
             The drop in eastern Europe bond
prices spurred by the continent’s debt crisis has created buying
opportunities as governments cut spending, said Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc’s  Brett Diment .  
 “The emerging-market European countries have actually
tackled the situation quite well,” Diment, the head of
emerging-market debt at Aberdeen, which oversees about $255
billion, said at “The Sovereign Debt Briefing” in London today
hosted by Bloomberg Link. “Contagion from the problems in
Greece and Spain is potentially a buying opportunity.”  
 Eastern European bonds  retreated since April, pushing up
the extra yield investors demand to own the securities over U.S.
Treasuries, after credit-rating downgrades of Greece, Spain and
Portugal heightened concern governments will struggle to finance
budget deficits. The so-called  yield spread  on JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global emerging Europe bond index rose 106 basis
points, or 1.06 percentage points, since April 5 to 288.  
 “For us it’s a matter of looking for potential
opportunities to add risk when we see periods of risk aversion
in those credits,” Diment said.  
 Hungary’s Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  this month announced
plans to impose a new tax on banks and cut public spending.
Romania’s Prime Minister  Emil Boc  is aiming to reduce the wages
of public employees by 25 percent and pensions and jobless
benefits by 15 percent.  
 ‘Modest’ Contagion Risk  
 Lithuanian Prime Minister  Andrius Kubilius  said June 22 the
Baltic nation is “on track” to cut its deficit to 3 percent of
gross domestic product by 2012. Poland’s government has proposed
limiting increases in discretionary spending to no more than 1
percent above inflation, a measure it says will save 9 billion
zloty ($2.7 billion) a year by 2013.  
 Developing nations in Europe “seem to be addressing their
problems,”  Jonathan Lemco , a sovereign credit analyst at
Vanguard Group Inc., which oversees about $1.3 trillion, said at
the Bloomberg Link conference. “The broad risk of contagion is
actually only modest.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
 Laura Price  in London at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        