-- Abu Dhabi's Aabar Buys 4.99% of Italy's UniCredit
-- Elisa Martinuzzi
-- 2010-06-24T16:19:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/abu-dhabi-s-aabar-investments-buys-4-99-of-unicredit-al-husseiny-says.html

          
          
             Aabar Investments PJSC , the Abu
Dhabi-based company that is the largest shareholder in German
carmaker Daimler AG, bought a 4.99 percent stake in Italy’s
 UniCredit SpA  as it adds investments in other industries.  
 “The financial services sector is something we are
interested in,” Chief Executive Officer  Mohamed Badawy Al- Husseiny  said in a phone interview today from Abu Dhabi. Aabar
purchased the stake on the market, he said.  
 Abu Dhabi, capital of the United Arab Emirates and home to
more than 7 percent of the world’s proven crude reserves, is
trying to diversify by investing in industries such as real
estate and aerospace. Aabar’s stake in UniCredit, Italy’s
biggest bank, is valued at about 1.84 billion euros ($2.3
billion), based on yesterday’s  closing price , and makes it the
second-largest shareholder.  
 UniCredit “warmly” welcomes the purchase of the stake by
Aabar, Chairman  Dieter Rampl  said in a statement. The investment
is a “signal of trust,” he said, enlarging the bank’s
shareholder base.  
 The Italian bank this year raised 4 billion euros by
selling new shares and is shedding non-strategic assets and
cutting costs to strengthen its capital. Among the businesses
it’s reviewing, UniCredit is discussing options for its Pioneer
Global Asset Management division. The lender in May reported a
16 percent increase in first-quarter  profit  to 520 million
euros, helped by trading income.  
 ‘Strong Shareholder’  
 “It’s good to have another strong shareholder, but the
investment is unlikely to have an impact on the bank’s
strategy,” said  Fabrizio Bernardi , an analyst at Evolution
Securities Ltd. in London who has a “sell” recommendation on
UniCredit shares.  
 Aabar fell 3.4 percent to close at 1.7 dirhams on the Abu
Dhabi Exchange today, valuing the company at about 6.87 billion
dirhams ($1.9 billion). UniCredit slipped 0.3 percent to 1.91
euros in Milan trading.  
 Aabar is now UniCredit’s second-largest shareholder after
 Mediobanca SpA , and ahead of Fondazione Cassa di Risparmio
Verona’s 4.98 percent stake, according to regulatory filings
this month. The Central Bank of Libya owns about 4.6 percent.
Radiocor news agency reported the news earlier today.  
 Investors from the Gulf Arab region have been big buyers of
stock in financial services companies. Qatar Investment
Authority, the country’s sovereign-wealth fund, this week agreed
to invest $2.8 billion in Agriculture Bank of China Ltd.’s
initial public offering. The wealth fund in neighboring Kuwait
also agreed to invest $800 million.  
 AIG Private Bank  
 Aabar, which acquired  American International Group Inc. ’s
private banking unit in 2008, had bought 49.8 million euros of
UniCredit’s convertible bonds in March 2009. The bonds are
exchangeable into ordinary shares and mature in 2050. The
company also invested $328 million in Banco Santander (Brasil)
SA last year by buying shares in its IPO.  
 In March 2009, Aabar paid $2.7 billion for a 9.1 percent
stake in Daimler, the world’s second-biggest luxury-carmaker.  
 The purchase of UniCredit stake comes as Aabar considers
plans to delist from the Abu Dhabi exchange. The board meets
today to discuss calling a shareholders’ meeting to convert it
into a private joint-stock company and cancel the stock listing
on the bourse.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Aabar Investments CEO Mohamed Badawy Al-Husseiny.  Photographer: David Cannon/Getty Images for Laureus  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
