-- Agricultural Bank to Raise Up to $11.4 Billion in Hong Kong Stock Offering
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-24T10:32:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/agricultural-bank-of-china-is-said-to-seek-11-4-billion-in-hong-kong-ipo.html

          
          
             Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  may
raise as much as $21.3 billion in an initial public offering
that would test confidence in the nation’s banking industry
after record amounts of  government-led lending .  
 The  bank  is selling as much as $11.4 billion of stock in
the Hong Kong part of the sale, according to a  filing  to Japan’s
Ministry of Finance today. Should it price shares on sale in
Shanghai at the same level, Agricultural Bank would raise a
combined $17.6 billion to $21.3 billion.  
 That would leave Chairman  Xiang Junbo  relying on a so-
called over-allotment option to beat  Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China Ltd.’s  almost four-year-old record of $21.9
billion. Xiang’s task is being complicated by this year’s 22
percent drop in China’s  benchmark stock index  and concerns that
unprecedented bank lending in 2009 will lead to a surge in
delinquent loans.  
 “It doesn’t seem to be the best environment to try to
float a bank issuance, but they’re going ahead, so they may have
to leave some money on the table,” said  Madelynn Matlock , the
Cincinnati-based manager of the Huntington International Equity
Fund at Huntington Asset Advisors, which oversees $13 billion.  
 Agricultural Bank may price the Shanghai shares at 2.52
yuan or above, two people with knowledge of the matter said. The
price range for that part of the IPO hasn’t been finalized, they
said.  
 Cheaper Than Peers  
 The Beijing-based company has an option to increase the IPO
by 15 percent to meet excess demand, boosting the shares it
sells in Hong Kong to 29.22 billion and in Shanghai to 25.57
billion, according a draft prospectus. The bank said today it
will offer the Hong Kong shares at HK$2.88 to HK$3.48 apiece.
The range for the Shanghai portion hasn’t been disclosed.  
 Agricultural Bank priced the Hong Kong shares at 1.55 times
to 1.79 times 2010 book value as estimated by the IPO’s
underwriters, people familiar with the deal said yesterday. That
compares with  2.23 times  for Beijing-based ICBC and  2.18 times 
for China Construction Bank Corp.  Bank of China Ltd. , the
nation’s third-largest by assets and Agricultural Bank’s closest
rival, trades at 1.59 times estimated book value, based on
yesterday’s close.  
 “Certainly it will be worth looking at,” said  Julian Mayo ,
who helps oversee $3 billion as investment director at
Charlemagne Capital in London. “It reflects an air of common
sense in the pricing. It’s a sign that demand is less than had
been the case if this deal came out six months ago.”  
 Banking Overhaul  
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA , Latin America’s biggest company by
market value, yesterday delayed the sale of as much as $25
billion of stock until September.  
 Agricultural Bank’s IPO marks the final chapter of a
decade-long overhaul of the country’s banking industry. The
government spent an estimated $650 billion to clean out bad
loans that were the legacy of years of state-directed lending
gone awry.  
 Chinese banks’ surge in loan growth since late 2008 has
raised their exposure to credit risk and future asset quality
deterioration is “a near certainty,” Fitch Ratings said in a
statement yesterday.  
 Agricultural Bank allocated $5.45 billion of the Hong Kong
part of the IPO to corporate investors, according to today’s
filing. Such buyers will account for at least 48 percent of the
Hong Kong sale before over-allotment, more than in any other
major Chinese bank’s IPO.  
 Middle East Buyers  
 Qatar Investment Authority agreed to invest $2.8 billion
and the Kuwait Investment Authority said it would buy $800
million. Corporate, or cornerstone, investors are guaranteed
shares in IPOs in exchange for a pledge to hold the stock for a
period of time.  
 “They recruited several pretty high-profile cornerstone
investors, and so far I think the interest has been on the
strong side,” said  Lei Wang , who helps oversee $18.7 billion at
the Santa Fe, New Mexico-based Thornburg International Value
Fund. “A reasonable discount versus peers makes sense. It has a
low asset quality.”  
 Agricultural Bank’s focus on serving the poorer parts of
China has come at the cost of lower profitability and a higher
bad-loan ratio than at local rivals, and in 2008 it became the
last lender to undergo a state-led restructuring.  
 The sale, scheduled to be priced on July 6, is coming after
state-backed deals pushed the amount raised in emerging market
IPOs above developed nations for a record fifth straight quarter.
At the same time, the European debt crisis spurred at least 47
companies worldwide to shelve initial sales since March.  
 ‘Shelf Space’  
 Agricultural Bank is also vying for investors’ money with
local rivals like China Construction Bank that are planning
stock sales to restore capital depleted by record lending.  
 “They’re competing for shelf space and it makes it more
difficult,” said  Uri Landesman , president of New York-based
hedge fund Platinum Partners, which oversees more than $500
million. Agricultural Bank’s pricing is “not a surprise given
the difficulties in the market there lately.”  
 China International Capital Corp., Deutsche Bank AG,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Macquarie Group
Ltd. and  Morgan Stanley  were hired to arrange the Hong Kong
portion of Agricultural Bank’s IPO, along with its own
investment unit. CICC, Citic Securities Co., China Galaxy
Securities Co. and Guotai Junan Securities Co. are managing the
bank’s yuan-denominated A-share offering.  
 -- Cathy Chan ,  Bei Hu ,  Jun Luo . With assistance from  Inyoung Hwang ,  Lee Spears  and  Michael Tsang  in New York and  Zijing Wu  in London. Editors:  Joost Akkermans ,  Philip Lagerkranser   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
 Luo Jun  in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        