-- Ahmadinejad Says Iran Will Announce Its Terms for Nuclear Talks Next Week
-- Ali Sheikholeslami
-- 2010-06-24T10:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/ahmadinejad-says-iran-will-announce-its-terms-for-nuclear-talks-next-week.html

          
          
             President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said
Iran next week will announce conditions for its participation in
proposed talks on the dispute over its nuclear program, which
this month prompted a fourth round of United Nations sanctions.  
 “The countries that imposed sanctions against Iran are
scared,” which is why they have asked Iranian officials to take
part in talks, Ahmadinejad said today. “The Islamic Republic
will talk about it with them in a way that will make them regret
what they did,” he said, calling the UN Security Council
sanctions “laughable.” His comments were carried on the
government’s information  website .  
 The U.S. and its allies remain committed to pursuing
diplomatic engagement with Iran as well as imposing pressure,
even as the June 9 sanctions are put into effect, the State
Department’s undersecretary for political affairs,  William Burns , said at a June 22 Senate hearing in Washington.  
 Iran has refused Security Council demands to suspend
uranium enrichment, saying the nuclear development is necessary
for civilian purposes such as power generation. The U.S. and its
allies say the work may be aimed at weapons production.  
 The Persian Gulf country said yesterday it has 17 kilograms
(37 pounds) of 20 percent-enriched uranium, more than triple the
amount UN nuclear inspectors found there in April. A weapon
could be made by enriching 150 to 200 kilograms of 20 percent
uranium to a concentration of 80 to 90 percent, say analysts
including  Paul Ingram , executive director of the London-based
British American Security Information Council.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ali Sheikholeslami  in London at 
 alis2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        