-- Thailand Has Less Need to Keep Interest Rates Abnormally Low, Tarisa Says
-- Suttinee Yuvejwattana
-- 2010-06-24T06:52:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/thailand-has-less-need-to-keep-interest-rates-abnormally-low-tarisa-says.html

          
          
             Thailand has less need for
“abnormally low” interest rates because the nation’s economy
has improved, supported by rising exports and local spending,
the central bank said.  
 “This will lead to a normalization of monetary policy,”
 Bank of Thailand  Governor  Tarisa Watanagase  told reporters in
Bangkok today. “Inflation will accelerate in the future and we
have to be careful about that.”  
 The governor’s comments signal that the central bank may be
preparing to raise  interest rates . Thailand has so far refrained
from joining neighboring Malaysia and India in increasing
borrowing costs this year, choosing to keep its benchmark at
1.25 percent for a ninth meeting in June as political unrest and
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis threatened the economic recovery.  
 The next monetary policy meeting is on July 14.  
 Thai inflation  reached 3.5 percent in May, accelerating
from 3 percent the previous month, while  core inflation ,
excluding fresh food and fuel prices, rose 1.2 percent. The
central bank’s target is to keep the increase in core prices
between 0.5 percent and 3 percent.  
 The government’s decision to raise salaries next year won’t
have much impact on inflation, Tarisa said.  
 Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said June 22 the
government plans to boost salaries by 5 percent in 2011, a move
that will cost about 30 billion baht ($926 million). That amount
is equivalent to 0.3 percent of the nation’s gross domestic
product, Tarisa said.  
 Thai  exports  in May rose 42.1 percent, the most since July
2008, the commerce ministry said this month. Southeast Asia’s
largest economy after Indonesia grew 12 percent in the first
three months of 2010 as exports, investment and consumption
recovered after a recession last year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        