-- Air France Flight 447 Crash Investigator Examines Airbus Emergency Drill
-- Laurence Frost
-- 2010-06-24T09:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/air-france-flight-447-crash-investigator-examines-airbus-emergency-drill.html

          
          
             The  Air France  Flight 447 crash
inquiry is reviewing pilot instructions issued by  Airbus SAS  for
dealing with instrument failures of the kind implicated in the
accident, according to the lead investigator.  
 France’s BEA air-accident investigation bureau is examining
the directive to climb in response to the loss of airspeed data,
 Alain Bouillard  said in an interview. Air France said it has
restricted use of the procedure in thin air at high altitudes on
concern that it may increase the risk of a mid-air stall.  
 The emergency maneuver “can lead to a reduction in speed”
when carried out at cruising level, Air France safety chief
Etienne Lichtenberger said in an interview. “The risk of a low-
speed stall is significant at high altitude, so it’s not a good
idea to reduce speed.” Airbus said it stands by the guidance.  
 The switch leaves Air France at odds with the drill still
applied by other airlines. In its preliminary findings, the BEA
blamed erroneous airspeed data for system failures logged by
automated transmissions from the A330 airliner en route to Paris
from Rio de Janeiro, minutes before it plunged into the mid-
Atlantic on June 1, 2009, killing all 228 people on board.  
 The Airbus maneuver instructs pilots to climb at a five-
degree pitch attitude -- the aircraft’s angle above horizontal
-- when airspeed readings become unreliable anywhere above
10,000 feet (3,048 meters). Only later in the procedure are they
told to check whether it’s safe to level off.  
 ‘Hard to Fathom’  
 When cruising at or above 35,000 feet, Flight 447’s last
known altitude, pulling up the nose and climbing is an
inappropriate response to speed-sensor failures, according to
pilots and independent experts.  
 “It’s hard to fathom why they would suggest that,” said
 Hans Weber , president of Tecop International Inc., an aviation
consulting firm based in San Diego, who has given safety advise
to the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration and companies
including Airbus parent  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.   
 “If you’re at high altitude and you carry on climbing at
five degrees for too long you will lose control of the
aircraft,” Weber, a physicist by training, said in an
interview. “It’s what pilots call the coffin corner -- you’re
quickly running out of lift in the thinner air.”  
 The BEA is “looking at the pertinence of these
procedures” and may suggest a review even if the plane’s flight
recorders, which might indicate what caused the crash, aren’t
found, Bouillard said in the June 18 telephone interview. “It’s
one line of inquiry -- but it’s still too early to say whether
anything needs to be improved or changed.”  
 ‘Piloting Sense’  
 Cedric Maniez, a pilot who flies A330s for Air France, said
knowing when to follow the Airbus drill was a “matter of good
piloting sense.”  
 When airspeed data is lost at high altitude, “you don’t
touch the pitch attitude, you just try to keep it level with
constant thrust,” Maniez said. “Unfortunately there’s no way
of knowing what happened aboard Flight 447 or to what extent
the unsuitability of this emergency maneuver might have played
a role.  
 Three search operations have failed to recover the black-
box flight recorders.  
 Jeremie Teahan, a spokesman for the  European Aviation
Safety Agency , which certified the maneuver and reviewed it
again after the crash, said the authority has ‘‘not found any
issues with the Airbus procedures for the time being.’’  
 Airbus spokesman  Stefan Schaffrath  said in an e-mail that
‘‘strict adherence to these approved procedures remains the best
way to manage unreliable airspeed situations.’’  
 New Instructions  
 Four days after the crash, Air France gave its pilots new
instructions that contradict the Airbus procedure for coping
with airspeed-data loss.  
 When the problem occurs at safe cruising altitude, pilots
should ‘‘maintain the same pitch attitude and engine thrust,’’
according to the June 5, 2009, memo signed by Lichtenburger and
three other executives. Crews should then troubleshoot ‘‘without
carrying out the emergency maneuver.’’  
 Most pilots realize that there is no need to climb when
already at cruising altitude, Lichtenberger said. Air France
issued the memo because it nonetheless ‘‘felt there was a risk
that pilots might follow the Airbus procedure to the letter.’’  
 Air France  also raised the issue with Airbus and EASA
officials after its own tests showed that maintaining the five-
degree configuration could slow an  A330  from 270 knots to 230
knots in about two minutes, Lichtenberger said. ‘‘That means
you’re getting closer to stalling speed.’’  
 Stall Warnings  
 With an estimated mass of 205 metric tons at the time of
the crash, the Airbus A330 would have had a stalling speed of
about 170 knots, data from the manufacturer show.  
 According to the final radio transmissions, the failure of
Flight 447’s airspeed sensors, or Pitot tubes, caused the
autopilot to shut down about four minutes before a rapid loss of
altitude, recorded in the final message. Debris analysis and
post-mortems of the 50 bodies receovered show that the plane 
hit the water belly-first in a near-vertical plunge, 
investigators say.  
 The BEA has documented 13 other cases of high-altitude
airspeed-data loss, of which nine resulted in stall warnings.
Some of the crews -- all of which managed to overcome the
problem -- had begun and then abandoned the emergency climb
maneuver when the alarm sounded, Bouillard said.  
 The BEA has also called for further study of atmospheric
ice crystals that may be capable of disabling Pitot tubes for
longer periods and at higher altitudes than previously
thought possible.  
 ‘‘When Airbus wrote the instructions they were probably of
a mind that the emergency would occur well below cruising
altitude,’’ Tecop’s Weber said. ‘‘There tends to be an
assumption that the chances of encountering real atmospheric
problems are very much reduced at high altitudes.’’  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        