-- Taiwan Unexpectedly Increases Rate as Asia Projects Confidence in Recovery
-- Yu-huay Sun
-- 2010-06-25T01:48:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/taiwan-central-bank-unexpectedly-raises-key-rate-to-1-375-to-curb-prices.html

          
          
             Taiwan’s central bank unexpectedly
raised its benchmark interest rate for the first time since 2008,
joining Asian policy makers from China to Malaysia in signaling
confidence the global recovery will withstand Europe’s debt woes.  
 Governor  Perng Fai-nan  and his board yesterday increased
the discount rate on 10-day loans to banks to 1.375 percent from
a record-low 1.25 percent, confounding the forecasts of all 13
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News, who expected no change.  
 The decision came five days after China, Taiwan’s biggest
trading partner, pledged to end a currency peg to the dollar,
and after South Korean officials said risks to the economy are
now balanced between inflation and threats to growth from
Europe’s crisis. The policy shifts also reflect Asia’s role in
leading the world rebound, and rising asset prices that could
destabilize markets without monetary tightening to avert bubbles.  
 Taiwan’s move “suggests that we can expect some other
Asian countries to raise rates in the third quarter,” said
 David Cohen , an economist at Action Economics in Singapore.
Nations including China, South Korea, Thailand and the
Philippines could move in the second half of this year, he said.  
 Taiwan’s  gross domestic product  rose 13.3 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier, the fastest pace since 1978.  
 Certificates of Deposit  
 The central bank will continue to sell one-year
certificates of deposit to help drain cash from the financial
system, Perng said at a press briefing in Taipei yesterday. The
bank resumed sales after its last meeting in March.  
 Mirroring counterparts around Asia, the central bank
expressed concern about rising property prices. Lenders should
focus on borrowers’ ability to repay home loans, it said, noting
sharp price gains within metropolitan Taipei. It told lenders to
cap home loans to buyers who already have mortgage in that area
at 70 percent of property values.  
 Taiwan property stocks declined today, with the 35-member
construction sub-index dropping 3.2 percent, the most since May
25. Farglory Land Development Co., the island’s biggest property
developer by market value, slid 6.4 percent to NT$62 as of 9:02
a.m. in Taipei, the most since Feb. 5. Cathay Real Estate
Development Co., the second-largest developer, fell 2.5 percent,
the most since June 7.  
 The  benchmark Taiex index  declined 0.9 percent. Taiwan’s
dollar advanced 0.5 percent against its U.S. counterpart to
NT$32.045.  
 Regional Moves  
 The Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan) held the
benchmark rate at a record low from March 2009 after cutting it
at seven consecutive meetings to boost investment and
consumption. Yesterday’s move followed others elsewhere.  
 Malaysia’s central bank raised interest rates for the
second time this year last month and New Zealand’s central bank
two weeks ago boosted borrowing costs for the first time in
three years. China’s decision to scrap the yuan’s peg ended a
crisis policy in place for almost two years.  
 Taiwan’s central bank said the move reflected the global
and domestic recoveries, the island’s falling jobless rate and
significant export gains.  
 Emerging economies face inflation pressures, Perng told
reporters, adding that he “hopes” Taiwan’s consumer prices
will increase by less than 1.4 percent in the second half of the
year. In May, the gain was 0.74 percent. The central bank aims
for real interest rates to be positive, the governor said.  
 South Korea  
 South Korea will “normalize” its accommodative policies
and take pre-emptive steps against inflation as the economy is
set to grow faster than previously forecast amid the global
rebound, the Finance Ministry said yesterday. The Bank of
Korea’s benchmark rate is currently at a record-low 2 percent.  
 “Policy is set to be normalized across the region in
coming months,” said Brian Jackson, a Hong Kong-based emerging
markets strategist at Royal Bank of Canada. Taiwan’s increase
“suggests that many policy makers in the region are looking
beyond a possible short-term dip in growth and are taking a
proactive approach.”  
 Taiwan last month raised its 2010 GDP growth projection to
6.14 percent from 4.72 percent, and its annual inflation
forecast to 1.4 percent from 1.27 percent. A government report
this week showed the jobless rate fell to a 17-month low.  
 Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. , the island’s
biggest company by market value, reported record monthly sales
of NT$33.8 billion ($1.1 billion) in May. Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Morris Chang  last week raised his forecast on
the growth of global chip-industry sales to “nearly 30
percent” this year from an April estimate of 22 percent.  
 China’s more flexible yuan may boost demand in that nation
for imports from Taiwan and closer trade ties may also be a boon,
with Taiwanese President  Ma Ying-jeou  aiming to sign an accord
this month. China and Taiwan have been ruled separately since
Chinese Nationalist Party troops fled to the island after losing
a civil war to  Mao Zedong ’s Communist forces in 1949.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chinmei Sung  in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .
 Yu-huay Sun  in Taipei 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Perng Fai-nan, governor of the Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan), speaks during a news conference in Taipei in March. Photographer: Maurice Tsai/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
