-- Lamborghini Superleggera Has $240,000 Nuclear Green Brag Speed
-- Jason H. Harper
-- 2010-06-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/lamborghini-superleggera-has-240-000-nuclear-green-brag-speed.html

          
          
             Congratulations! Your membership in
the recession has expired. Throw off that sad shade of Gray
Austerity which hardly becomes you. It’s time to abuse your bank
account.  
 But what to buy?  
 You might consider a diamond-encrusted  Victoria’s Secret
bra . Or perhaps a Greenwich mansion with a dollar-sign shaped
swimming pool. Or a Lamborghini. Yes, how about a nice Lambo for
the six-car garage?  
 You could wait for the new version of the Murcielago
supercar, called the Jota, out in a year or so. Patience
probably clashes with your designer duds, though.  
 Instead, try the latest toy off the line in Sant’Agata
Bolognese, Italy -- the LP 570-4 Superleggera, a top-line
version of the Gallardo coupe that was released three years ago.
It’s got “super” in the name after all, a good start.  
 The base Gallardo -- a V-10-equipped mind-blower that
rockets to 60 miles per hour in 3.6 seconds -- costs more than
$200,000. The Superleggera is about $40,000 more.  
 So what do you get for the extra? Ruby inlays in the
steering wheel? A supermodel in the passenger seat?  
 Nope. Less. Much less. Superleggera means “super light”
in Italian and Lamborghini surgeons have sculpted away 154
excess pounds. That’s the equivalent of losing the supermodel,
her toy dog, oversized Balenciaga purse and emotional baggage.  
 Carbon Fiber  
 Light cars handle better and are quicker from a dead stop,
but replacing steel with aluminum and carbon fiber is expensive.
For the Superleggera’s premium you get sheets of weaved carbon
fiber inside and out, so gorgeously sculpted you could hang one
of the carbon-encased side mirrors on the wall alongside the
Matisse. You’ll also find the pricy material on the rear wing
and seat backs.  
 Not including fluids like gasoline and oil, the car weighs
less than 3,000 pounds, the lightest car  Lamborghini  makes.  
 Yet that strict diet also means doing without creature
comforts like automatic seats. And the door handles inside are
leather pulls rather than metal levers.  
 Just be glad that you still get air conditioning and auto
windows.  
 So, this is luxury?  
 It is when you live in a world of bragging rights where the
winner is measured in tenths of a second. The LP 570-4’s mid-
mounted V-10 is up-rated to 562 horsepower, and 60 mph will show
on the speedometer in about 3.3 seconds.  
 Yes, some will indeed pay $40,000 for three-tenths of a
second.  
 Nuclear Green  
 While you can still buy it in colors that don’t exist in
nature (nuclear green for example), the Superleggera is a
serious sports machine, in direct competition with the Ferrari
430 Scuderia, also a light-weight version of a popular road-
going car.  
 Lamborghini execs are well aware of the brand’s past
reputation as a favorite among urban cowboys with a penchant for
thick gold-rope chains and illegal pixie powder. They are
working to be taken seriously by the car cognoscenti, and the
Superleggera has appeal that transcends the Miami Beach crowd.  
 Older Lamborghinis were mostly designed for top speed, and
this one will hit 202 mph if you could only find the road.
Engineers are now aiming for superior handling and cool design.  
 The Gallardo is undeniably exotic-looking, an atomic wedge
meant to slice through air. Yet unlike older Lamborghinis such
as the Diablo, it lacks the oversized wing and frivolous
details. It’s more serious and much cooler.  
 Racetrack Test  
 I was only allowed to drive it on the racetrack, away from
bumpy roads and traffic jams. From the moment I closed the
featherweight door and tried to position myself in the tight
cocoon, my senses were on high alert. I couldn’t quite get
comfortable with my head brushing the roof (I’m not sure how
you’d manage a helmet). The experience is more boot-camp bossing
than champagne cosseting.  
 Then I fired up the engine, which is positioned under glass
behind the driver. It sounds like a malevolent buzz saw. You
might not want to live with it every day (nor might your
neighbors), but in short bursts it’s glorious.  
 Soon I was tearing into tight corners, slithering onto the
inside curbing and then going hard on the gas, allowing the car
to slide to the opposite side of the track. Peals of rubber
sounded like gun shots.  
 Like all Lamborghinis, this is all-wheel-drive, but the
persistent understeer of previous models is mostly gone.
Handling was spirited and predictable. The car’s lightness is
abetted by a tweaked suspension, as unforgiving as a drill
instructor.  
 Wiggly Rear  
 My only concern was that at speeds of more than 100 mph
directly into heavy braking, the back end wiggled unsettlingly,
showing that the car could use more aerodynamic down-force.  
 Obviously this is no daily driver. And cross-country forays
are out of the question. (Forget about storage space.)  
 Sunday drives would be nice. Racetrack days besting your
friends would be better. It’s a $240,000-plus purchase that
you’ll only use once in a great while. Kinda like a diamond-
encrusted bra.  
  The 2011 Lamborghini Gallardo LP 570-4 Superleggera at a Glance  
 Engine: 5.2-liter V-10 with 562 horsepower and 398 pound-
feet of torque.  
 Transmission: 6-speed automated manual.  
 Speed: 0 to 62 mph in 3.4 seconds.  
 Gas mileage per gallon: 14 city; 20 highway.  
 Price as tested: $260,000 (estimated).  
 Best feature: Incredible handling.  
 Worst feature: Lots of money, few creature comforts.  
 Target buyer: The toy lover.  
 ( Jason H. Harper  writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A 2011 Lamborghini LP 570-4 Superleggera. It has a 5.2-liter V-10 with 562 horsepower and 398 pound-feet of torque. Source: Lamborghini via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A 2011 Lamborghini LP 570-4 Superleggera. The Superleggera is a lightweight version of the Gallardo, making it faster and better handling. Source: Lamborghini via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The interior of the 2011 Lamborghini LP 570-4 Superleggera. Inside you get manual seats and pull tabs rather than door handles. You'll find beautiful carbon fiber throughout. Source: Lamborghini via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Two Lamborghini Gallardo LP 570-4 Superleggera cars. While the regular Gallardo runs some $200,000, expect to pay about $40,000 more for the Superleggera. Source: Lamborghini via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The rear view of the 2011 Lamborghini LP 570-4 Superleggera. The Superleggera is a lightweight version of the Gallardo, making it faster and better handling. Source: Lamborghini via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A Lamborghini Gallardo LP 570-4 Superleggera automobile on display at the Geneva International Motor Show in Geneva, Switzerland. It has a 5.2-liter V-10 with 562 horsepower and 398 pound-feet of torque. Photographer: Adrian Moser/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
