-- American Bar Association Says Kagan Well Qualified for U.S. Supreme Court
-- Laura Litvan
-- 2010-06-24T19:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/american-bar-association-says-kagan-well-qualified-for-u-s-supreme-court.html

          
          
             The  American Bar Association , the
nation’s largest legal professional association, said U.S.
Solicitor General  Elena Kagan  is well qualified to be on the
Supreme Court.  
 The ABA “has returned its highest rating of unanimously
well qualified,” said Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman
 Patrick Leahy  in a statement. The rating “is further evidence
of Elena Kagan’s qualifications to serve as an independent
justice,” the Vermont Democrat said.  
 The ABA, a group of 400,000 legal professionals, regularly
provides ratings for nominees to the federal bench.  
 President  Barack Obama  on May 10 nominated Kagan, 50, to
replace retiring Justice  John Paul Stevens . She is currently the
administration’s chief courtroom lawyer. Her confirmation
hearings before the Senate Judiciary Committee begin June 28.  
 Leahy announced today that Kagan will be introduced at the
hearings by both of Massachusetts’s senators, Republican  Scott Brown  and Democrat  John Kerry . Kagan is a former dean of  Harvard
Law School  in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  
 While Brown hasn’t endorsed her, he praised her after the
two met in his office after Obama nominated her.  
 Republican Opposition  
 Still, there are signs of more Republican opposition on the
Judiciary Committee. Panel member  Orrin Hatch  of Utah said in a
Senate floor speech today he has significant concerns about her
nomination.  
 He said Kagan’s past work, including four years as an aide
to former President  Bill Clinton , suggests her personal and
political views on abortion and other issues drive her legal
opinions.  
 He also said Kagan’s remark that  Aharon Barak , the former
president of Israel’s Supreme Court, is her “judicial hero”
raises a red flag because of Barak’s reputation as a judicial
activist.  
 “For most of her career, Ms. Kagan has endorsed, and has
praised others who endorse, an activist judicial philosophy,”
said Hatch, who last year voted to confirm Kagan as solicitor
general.  
 Kagan is the 13th Supreme Court nominee named by Republican
and Democratic presidents that Hatch has considered since he was
first elected to the Senate in 1976, said his press secretary,
 Antonia Ferrier . The only nominee he opposed, she said, was
 Sonia Sotomayor , appointed by Obama last year and confirmed 68-
31 with nine Republican senators supporting her.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        