-- AMR's American Eagle Options Will Include a Leveraged Buyout, Garton Says
-- Mary Schlangenstein
-- 2010-06-24T20:33:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/amr-s-american-eagle-options-will-include-a-leveraged-buyout-garton-says.html

          
          
             AMR Corp.  will include private
equity and a leveraged buyout among options under consideration
for its American Eagle regional airline, Eagle Chief Executive
Officer  Dan Garton  said.  
 Garton has just begun evaluating possibilities for Eagle’s
future, including leaving it as a wholly owned unit of AMR, the
parent of American Airlines. AMR said June 10 it would evaluate
the possible divestiture of Eagle, 23 months after taking it off
the market.  
 A separation of Eagle would allow American to seek lower-
cost options for bringing passengers from small cities to its
hub airports and let Eagle compete to provide regional flights
for other airlines. An outright sale, spinoff to AMR
 shareholders  or public offering are among options being studied,
Garton said today in an interview.  
 “We really haven’t focused in on any one of those as the
right way to go about this,” he said. AMR wants to “make sure
we don’t go blindly down some path. There have been examples of
other spinoffs which were done for some sort of a momentary
burst. That is not AMR’s interest.”  
 Garton, who has retained his title as American’s executive
vice president for marketing, said he would be willing to lead
an employee-involved buyout if that “ends up looking like the
best solution.” Private-equity investors also are “on the
list,” though AMR has “talked to no sources of equity” at
this point, he said.  
 ‘A Tough Time’  
 AMR said in November 2007 it would put Eagle on the block
amid shareholders’ demands for divestitures to help boost the
stock. The Fort Worth, Texas-based company decided against a
sale or spinoff in July 2008, saying it wanted to wait until
industry conditions were more stable.  
 “When they feel the time is right and that they can get a
fair value, they will pull the trigger,” said  James Corridore ,
a Standard & Poor’s equity analyst in New York. “One of the
reasons why it’s been so hard to sell is because it’s a tough
time in the industry and a tough business within a tough
industry.”  
 AMR doesn’t break out complete financial data on Eagle,
including whether it’s profitable. The unit’s  sales  rose 9
percent in the first quarter to $498 million. Eagle operates 280
 aircraft  and has 1,500 daily departures to 20 countries.  
 Larger Jets  
 About 77 percent of Eagle’s aircraft have 50 or fewer
seats, a size that’s fallen out of favor because of operating
costs and the demand for larger, more comfortable planes to move
passengers to hubs. Eagle can’t add more 70-seat or larger
regional jets now because of a limit set in American’s contract
with its  pilots .  
 “Those are not very attractive assets,” Corridore said.
“The way the industry is moving, you need more 70- and 90-
seaters.”  
 An independent Eagle would consider contracting to provide
ground-handling services to other carriers where it has crews,
Garton said. It also would be able to fly to smaller cities,
where jets with 50 or fewer seats would match demand, and to add
larger planes under contracts with other airlines, he said.  
 AMR fell 9 cents to $7.63 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have declined 1.3 percent
this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        