-- Landau Says Israel Willing to Use Force to Protect Gas Finds Off Coast
-- David Wainer
-- 2010-06-24T09:03:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/landau-says-israel-willing-to-use-force-to-protect-gas-finds-off-coast.html

          
          
             Minister of National Infrastructures
 Uzi Landau  said Israel is willing to use force to protect off-
shore natural gas finds after the speaker of Lebanon’s
parliament said the fields extended into his nation’s waters.  
 “We will not hesitate to use our force and strength to
protect not only the rule of law but the international maritime
law,” Landau, 66, said in an interview yesterday at his
Jerusalem office when asked about Lebanese claims. “Whatever we
find, they will have something to say. That’s because they’re
not challenging our findings and so-called occupation of the
sea. Our very existence here is a matter of occupation for them.
These areas are within the economic waters of Israel.”  
 Israel, which is seeking to wean itself off oil and coal
imports from as far away as Mexico and Norway, has said the
Leviathan and Tamar fields may allow it to start exporting gas.
The discoveries also have prompted talks with Cyprus to seek
clarification on maritime boundaries. Israel and Lebanon are
technically at war and have no diplomatic relations.  
 Lebanon’s Parliament Speaker  Nabih Berri  said that Israel
is “ignoring the fact that according to the maps the deposit
extends into Lebanese waters,” Agence France-Presse reported on
June 9.  
 Noble Energy Inc.  and Israeli companies controlled by
billionaire  Isaac Tshuva , say the gas finds in the past 18
months may hold 24 trillion cubic feet of gas, more than twice
the U.K.’s gas reserves. Leviathan lies about 130 kilometers (81
miles) off Israel and Tamar 90 kilometers, according to Landau’s
ministry.  Delek Drilling-LP , one of Noble’s partners, said June
15 that the licenses are in waters where Israel has authority.  
 Stock Trading  
 Delek rose as much as 1.7 percent today in Tel Aviv to 11.28
shekels and was trading at 11.21 shekels at 10:20 a.m. The stock
has doubled in the past 12 months.  
 Noble fell 65 cents, or 1 percent, to $62.41 in yesterday’s
trading on the New York Stock Exchange. It has gained 9 percent
during the past year.  
 Lebanese Energy Minister  Gebran Bassil  said June 17 his
country “will not allow Israel or any company working for
Israeli interests to take any amount of our gas that is falling
in our zone.” He said Noble was warned not to work close to
Lebanon’s economic zone.  
 Bassil said Lebanon’s government and lawmakers “should
move quickly on starting the exploration of offshore gas.”  
 A coastal state is entitled to explore for oil and gas in
its economic zone, which extends 200 nautical miles (370
kilometers), according to the  United Nations Convention  on the
Law of the Sea. A halfway point is used when the distance
between countries is less than 400 nautical miles. Haifa, in
northern Israel, is about 148 nautical miles from Cyprus, which
is located north of Leviathan.  
 Complex Claim  
 Lebanon’s claim may be complex because its border with
Israel is indented, making it harder to establish where Israel’s
sea boundary ends and Lebanese waters begin, Robbie Sable, a
professor of international law at Jerusalem’s Hebrew University,
said on June 15.  
 Israel is working on an agreement with Cyprus over the two
countries’ maritime borders, Landau said. There is no dispute
with Cyprus over Israel’s rights to the Leviathan gas
exploration site and the Tamar field, said Landau, who last year
left the ruling Likud party to join the Yisrael Beitenu party
led by Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman . The group is the
second-biggest party in the ruling coalition.  
 Landau said Israel and Cyprus are “in close touch” about
the gas fields.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
 David Wainer  in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        