-- Manhattan's $10 Million Apartment Market Offers No Bargain Buys
-- Ashley Lutz
-- 2010-06-24T19:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/manhattan-s-10-million-apartment-market-outperforms-rest-of-new-york-city.html

          
          
             It took  Stephane Melloul  three days
to learn he’d need about $50 million for the New York home of
his dreams: four bedrooms, a terrace and Central Park views.  
 Melloul, president of London-based  credit rating  company
Notalia, started this week expecting to spend as little as $20
million. He raised his target after seeing just five Manhattan
properties that met his criteria.  
 “I thought when I came here that the prices would be more
compelling and more attractive, and actually they weren’t,”
Melloul said, speaking in French in a telephone interview. Real
estate broker  Charlie Attias , a senior vice president of New
York-based Corcoran Group, interpreted.  
 Manhattan’s super-luxury apartments, those sold for $10
million or more, outperformed the rest of the city’s housing
market in the first quarter. The median price of the most
expensive cooperatives and condominiums climbed 6.4 percent from
a year earlier, compared with an 11 percent drop across all
price ranges, according to an analysis of data provided to
Bloomberg News by New York-based appraiser Miller Samuel Inc.  
 “There is always going to be demand for those units in the
sense that they’re hard to come by,” said  Gregory Heym , chief
economist for Terra Holdings LLC, owner of property brokers
 Brown Harris Stevens  and  Halstead Property LLC . “Park and Fifth
avenue buildings, the rarity of getting an availability in them,
make them very desirable.”  
 New Neighborhoods  
 Leonard Steinberg, a managing director at New York-based
 Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate , said he sold two
properties this year for more than $10 million and is working on
another two. Buyers who once limited their search to the Upper
East Side are now spending equivalent amounts in the city’s
TriBeCa, Greenwich Village, SoHo and Chelsea neighborhoods, he
said.  
 “The market has done a 180 from last year, when you had it
drop pretty dramatically,” Steinberg said. “Buyers need
confidence to buy, not money, and confidence has returned.”  
 The median price of 77 apartments sold for $10 million or
more in 2009 was $12.8 million, according to the analysis of
Miller’s data. So far in 2010, 28 units sold for a median of
$13.2 million.  
 Two Buildings  
 The median price of apartments in the $10 million-plus
range has been pretty steady, between about $12.5 million and
$13.6 million since 2002, with the exception of 2007 and 2008.
In those years, the median hit $14 million, an anomaly set by
sales at the Plaza and 15 Central Park West, two buildings that
opened at the same time and together more than doubled the
typical number of $10-million-plus transactions in Manhattan.  
 Of the 240 sales above $10 million in 2008, 30 percent were
at 15 Central Park West and 10 percent were at the Plaza, said
Sofia Song, vice president of research at property website
 StreetEasy.com .  
 “There was nothing like it before those two projects and
nothing like it after,” Song said.  
 Resales now make up the bulk of transactions above $10
million, she said.  
 At 15 Central Park West, the condominium towers that rock
star Sting and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Chief Executive Officer
Lloyd Blankfein call home, a 25th floor unit sold for $13.7
million in January. That’s more than double what the previous
owner paid in 2007, according to city  records .  
 Central Park Views  
 Apartments in the building, designed by architect Robert
A.M. Stern, include some with panoramic views of Central Park
and all originally featured herringbone wood floors and six-
burner Thermador ranges.  
 At nearby  Time Warner Center , where owners share services
with the Mandarin Oriental  Hotel , a three-bedroom condo just
went into contract for $5,400 a square foot. It marks the
second-highest amount paid by that measure for any unit in the
complex, said Elizabeth Lee Sample, president of the  building’s 
board and a managing director at broker Brown Harris.  
 “We have nothing to sell,” Sample said. “It’s just
completely limited inventory.”  
 Melloul, 43, is helping his company open a New York office
and would like to move from Paris with his wife and two
daughters as soon as possible, he said.  
 He saw a “perfect” unit at 15 Central Park West for about
$50 million, he said. He declined to be more specific.  
 Inventory Drop  
 Inventory  in the general luxury market, defined by Miller
Samuel as apartments of more than $2.87 million from March 31
through June 15, declined 13 percent in that period to 1,302,
company president Jonathan Miller said. Overall city inventory
rose 1.6 percent to 8,157 properties.  
 “The first quarter of 2010 was when in my view the luxury
market really woke up,” said Miller. “The pace of growth
wasn’t because of appreciation, it was because of the shift in
the mix to larger units.”  
 Leighton Candler, a senior vice president for Corcoran who
works exclusively on the Upper East Side and around Central
Park, said her 25 years in the business have taught her the key
to a healthy high-end market is property owners being willing to
list their homes.  
 “In a bad market, the buyers aren’t looking, but just as
important, the owners aren’t selling,” she said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Oshrat Carmiel  in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ashley Lutz  in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     At 15 Central Park West, the condominium towers that Goldman Sachs Group Inc. CEO Lloyd Blankfein calls home, a 25th floor unit sold for $13.7 million in January. Photographer: Chris Kleponis/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The awning for 15 Central Park West extends from the luxury condominium building in New York where Lloyd Blankfein calls home. Photographer:  JB Reed/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Lake in Central Park is surrounded by trees as buildings on Central Park West stand in the background. Photographer: Jeremy Bales/Bloomberg  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
