-- Manulife Would Consider AIG Unit to Accelerate Expansion, Spokesman Says
-- Doug Alexander
-- 2010-06-24T20:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/manulife-would-consider-aig-unit-to-accelerate-expansion-spokesman-says.html

          
          
             Manulife Financial Corp.  is taking a
look at American International Group Inc.’s AIA Group Ltd. as an
opportunity to accelerate growth of its insurance business in
Asia, a company spokesman said.  
 “We are watching AIA very closely just as we are a variety
of other opportunities in Asia,”  David Paterson  said today in
an interview. “We have a disciplined approach to M&A that
focuses on aligning the right opportunity, the right time and
the right price.”  
 Manulife may be a “potential suitor” for AIG’s main Asian
unit, the Globe and Mail reported today, citing Manulife Chief
Executive Officer  Donald Guloien . Prudential Plc terminated a
$35.5 billion agreement to buy AIA Group on June 2 after
Prudential shareholders balked at the price.  
 There is a “huge amount” of interest from investors in
seeing the Toronto-based insurer pursuing a deal like that,
Guloien told the newspaper.  
 “The response is consistent with what he’s said, which is
we keep a watching brief on all opportunities at the right
price, at the right time,” Paterson said. “We are focused on
growing organically right now and we don’t see anything
imminent.”  
 Manulife has been expanding in Asia, largely without making
acquisitions. Last month, Canada’s largest insurer said earnings
from its Asia and Japan unit almost tripled to C$427 million
($409 million). The unit represented 17 percent of its C$40.1
billion in revenue last year, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Beijing Meeting  
 In March, Manulife  bought  Fortis Bank SA/NV’s 49 percent
stake in a Chinese wealth-management joint venture now known as
Manulife TEDA Fund Management Co. Assets under management for
the partnership were $4.4 billion at the end of December.  
 Guloien said in a June 7 interview with Bloomberg that the
scrapped deal for AIA Group may prompt clients to turn to
Manulife, which has been in Asia since 1897. The insurer plans
to hold a board meeting in October in Beijing.  
 “The more there’s confusion about what’s going on, it
provides opportunities for people to deal with what’s a very
stable situation here at Manulife,” Guloien said.  
 Guloien also called AIA “a fine company” at the time, and
reiterated comments made in March that the price AIA was being
sold at was an “extremely full price.”  
 Manulife fell 14 cents to C$16.26 at 4:13 p.m. on the
Toronto Stock Exchange.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        