-- ArcelorMittal Needing Production Cuts as Costs Spiral, Squeezing Returns
-- Thomas Biesheuvel
-- 2010-06-24T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/arcelormittal-needing-production-cuts-as-costs-spiral-squeezing-returns.html

          
          
             ArcelorMittal  and competitors in
Europe will probably curb steel production to support prices as
they struggle to pass on higher raw-material costs, just as a
regional debt crisis and rollbacks in state spending cut demand.  
 “You’ll see some blast-furnace stoppages,” said  Gordon Moffat , director general of  Eurofer , representing steelmakers in
Europe including ArcelorMittal, the world’s biggest. “It looks
like they’re responding to a weakening of the market.”  
 Slowing demand is damaging efforts to sustain output gains
during the past year after the industry hauled itself out of its
worst crisis in 60 years. ArcelorMittal said June 3 it was ready
to halt three blast furnaces should seasonal trends reduce
demand next quarter.  ThyssenKrupp AG , Germany’s top producer,
said June 15 it will scale back processing at some plants.  
 Even after ArcelorMittal boosted production of flat carbon
steel in Europe by 62 percent last quarter, the Luxembourg-based
company is operating below capacity as it slashed global output
by as much as 50 percent during the economic slump. Shutting
plants may help to buoy prices as demand from automakers slides.  
 “Prices have come under pressure worldwide,” said  Imran Akram , a London-based analyst at Collins Stewart Plc. “It is
looking increasingly as if the industry will need to idle more
capacity than has been announced.”  
 Prices Slip  
 Chinese  steel prices , which typically lead European rates,
fell 6 percent to 4,316 yuan ($634.73) a ton in May, the first
drop since January, according to data from Beijing Antaike
Information Development Co.  Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. , China’s
biggest publicly traded steelmaker, said June 4 it cut prices
after eight months of flat or rising rates. China is the world’s
biggest steel producer.  
 “There is now a risk that steel production has increased
more quickly than the recovery in real demand, which could lead
to pricing pressure” in the second half,  Matthias Hellstern , an
analyst at Moody’s Investors Service, wrote in a note.  
 ArcelorMittal  said in April it would expand worldwide
output to 80 percent of capacity in the second quarter from 72
percent in the prior three months. In February it said
production would reach 85 percent by the end of the year.  
 Europe’s steel industry, while suffering from declining
demand in the “near term,” will benefit in future years as
governments and companies cut debt and a lower euro boosts
exports, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said May 26.  
 Seasonal Lull  
 ArcelorMittal spokesman  Giles Read  said expectations of a
slower third quarter were a result of a “seasonal lull” in the
summer months. ThyssenKrupp is running its blast furnaces at
full capacity and doesn’t plan to halt them, Essen-based company
spokesman  Erwin Schneider  said yesterday in an e-mail.  
 Still, Bank of America Merrill Lynch forecast production by
European steel mills will drop 15 percent next quarter from the
previous three months, compared with an average 7 percent
reduction in the third quarters of 2002 through 2007.  
 European producers face falling demand as governments end
incentives to buy new cars introduced as part of economic
stimulus measures and the debt crisis centered on Greece stifles
the chances of a housing-market recovery across the region.  
 Fiat SpA Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  forecast
in March that demand for cars in Europe this year will drop
about 15 percent to the lowest level since 1994. French new car
registrations fell 12 percent in May after a year of monthly
gains. Automotive and construction companies made up 43 percent
of European steel consumption in 2008, according to Moody’s.  
 Dwindling Demand  
 “We are looking at weak demand from autos in the second
half and at this point construction is likely to remain weak,”
said  Christian Georges , an analyst at Olivetree Securities Ltd.
in London. Steel “price deflation in the second half will be
extremely difficult to prevent.”  
 Steelmakers are seeking to bolster prices in preparation
for further gains in iron-ore costs in the third quarter after
the raw material almost doubled in April. The quarterly price
for ore from Rio Tinto Group and  BHP Billiton Ltd. , the second-
and third-largest producers, may climb about 23 percent to $148
a metric ton from July 1, according to Macquarie Group Ltd.  
 ArcelorMittal  has slumped 24 percent in Amsterdam trading
this year, compared with a 1.6 percent drop in the Stoxx Europe
600 Index of regional shares. ThyssenKrupp tumbled 18 percent,
and Voestalpine AG, Austria’s largest steelmaker, 6.6 percent.  
 ArcelorMittal CEO  Lakshmi Mittal  said in March the company
needed to raise fees after miners of iron ore ended a 40-year
custom of fixing prices annually and switched to supply
contracts that change every quarter.  
 Iron Ore Costs  
 The cost of ore, the largest raw-material expense in steel
production, is about $170 per ton of steel, based on current
prices, according to BofA Merrill Lynch. Steelmakers use 1.6
tons of iron ore and 0.5 tons of coking coal to make 1 ton of
steel. Raw materials account for as much as 75 percent of
production costs for mills, according to JPMorgan Cazenove.  
 ArcelorMittal said May 12 it will raise hot-rolled coil
prices to 650 euros ($800) a ton in July, from prices at the
time of 560 to 620 euros. ThyssenKrupp will increase prices by
an average 200 euros over all products in July, Schneider said.  
 “The mills must make one or two decisions to cut capacity
and tighten the market or accept that they have to suffer the
extra cost of iron ore,”  Peter Fish  at Sheffield, England-based
metals consultants MEPS International Ltd. said by telephone.
“There won’t be many mills at the end of the year operating at
a higher rate than they were in the second quarter.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Biesheuvel  in London 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     ArcelorMittal chairman and chief executive officer Lakshmi Mittal. Photographer: Paolo Fridman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
