-- Areva Finnish Nuclear Plant Overruns Approach Initial Cost After Provision
-- Francois de Beaupuy
-- 2010-06-24T12:25:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/areva-finnish-nuclear-plant-overruns-approach-initial-cost-after-provision.html

          
          
             Areva SA , the French nuclear-reactor
builder, took a new provision for cost overruns at a plant it’s
building in Finland, leaving the door open for more charges as
the project is still 2 1/2 years away from completion.  
 The company said yesterday it will book a charge of about
400 million euros ($491 million) in the first half as Finnish
customer  Teollisuuden Voima Oyj  said this month the OL3 plant
will start nuclear operations at the end of 2012 rather than by
a previous June 2012 deadline.  
 Areva “has now installed the reactor pressure vessel and
continues work on piping, but history suggests further delays
are very likely,”  Alex Barnett , an analyst at Jefferies
International Ltd., who recommends buying Areva investment
certificates, said in a research note today.  
 The new charge takes total provisions for cost overruns to
about 2.7 billion euros for the first-of-its-kind project, which
Areva pledged in 2005 to build for 3 billion euros and complete
in 2009. That’s adding pressure on the state-controlled company,
which is seeking to  raise  about 3 billion euros by selling new
shares this year to fund expansion and preserve its A credit
rating, which may be cut by Standard & Poor’s.  
 The French government and Chief Executive Officer  Anne Lauvergeon  are trying to convince Mitsubishi Heavy Industries
Ltd. and the sovereign wealth funds of Kuwait and Qatar to  buy 
the new shares. The talks have been held back as the French
government seeks to clarify Areva’s financial situation and
works on a plan for the country’s nuclear industry, following
spats between Areva and power utility Electricite de France SA.  
 EDF-Areva Talks  
 The two state-controlled companies remain at odds over
nuclear fuel supplies, and “negotiations with EDF on conditions
for the shutdown of the Georges Besse 1 enrichment plant”
continue, Areva said in its statement yesterday.  
 Excluding the Finnish provision and possible costs for the
French enrichment plant, the operating margin for the first half
should be about 4 percent, Areva said. It will probably post an
increase of about 2 percent in first-half revenue, while full-
year backlog and revenue will show “significant growth.”  
 “Areva seems to be able to deliver” on its growth targets,
said Natixis analysts  Philippe Ourpatian  and  Celine Cherubin  in
a note to investors today. They recommend buying Areva’s
investment certificates.  
 Standard & Poor’s said on April 14 it may cut Areva’s  debt
rating  from A, its sixth-highest grade, unless the Paris-based
company clarifies its  debt-reduction  plan.  
 TVO Claims  
 Areva had 6.2 billion euros of net  debt  at the end of 2009,
including 2 billion euros earmarked for the purchase of Siemens
AG’s 34 percent stake in a reactor joint venture. Siemens, which
used an option to exit the business last year, agreed to create
a rival venture with Russia’s Rosatom Corp. to compete against
Areva, sparking litigation.  
 Areva also faces 1.4 billion euros in claims from TVO for
the delays at the Finnish plant, while Areva is suing its
customer for 1 billion euros.  
 Lauvergeon, who’s planning to invest 6.5 billion euros by
2012 to develop uranium mines and nuclear equipment and to
expand in renewable energy, also needs to agree with the
government on how much the state would pay to buy Areva’s stakes
in mining company  Eramet SA  and chipmaker  STMicroelectronics NV .  
 She sold Areva’s power-grid unit to Alstom SA and Schneider
Electric SA this year for an enterprise value of 4.1 billion
euros. Areva said yesterday it will book a 1.3 billion-euro
capital gain from the sale in the first half, allowing net
income to be “sharply up” from a year earlier.  
 Areva is due to report first-half results on July 30.  
 The French state  owns 91 percent  of Areva, and EDF owns a
2.5 percent stake. About 4 percent of Areva trades on the Paris
stock exchange as non-voting  investment certificates . They fell
2 percent to 351.45 euros as of 2:22 p.m., giving the company a
market value of 12.5 billion euros.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francois de Beaupuy  in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        