-- Virgin Atlantic Says U.S. Authorities Held Passengers on Diverted Plane
-- John Hughes
-- 2010-06-24T19:24:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/tarmac-rule-may-be-expanded-to-overseas-flights-after-stranding-incident.html

          
          
             The U.S. may force airlines to
release passengers on overseas flights that become stranded
after a diverted Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. flight renewed
demands for additional regulation.  
 The Transportation Department may expand the rule requiring
airlines to let passengers off planes after three hours, or pay
fines. “We’re looking at whether the public supports an
expansion of the hard deadline,” spokeswoman  Olivia Alair  said
in an e-mail.  
 Virgin’s flight from London’s Heathrow Airport was diverted
to  Bradley International Airport  near Hartford, Connecticut, by
weather, the airline said. The 300 passengers were on the
grounded plane from about 8:30 p.m. until midnight waiting for
immigration inspectors to arrive, airport spokesman John Wallace
said yesterday.  
 International flights are exempt from a rule that took
effect April 29, which imposed fines as much as $27,500 for each
customer when passengers aren’t released from planes stuck on
the ground for more than three hours. Carriers said
international routes had too few flights and cancellations to
avoid violations would inconvenience passengers.  
 “Simply because it is a foreign carrier should not exempt
that airline from providing for basic needs of its passengers,”
Senator  Olympia  Snowe, a Maine Republican, said in a statement.
“I find it absolutely absurd that these Virgin Atlantic
customers were forced to remain on the tarmac, with limited
access to food and water.”  
 The Virgin Atlantic flight should prompt Transportation
Secretary  Ray LaHood  to impose a three-hour deadline for
overseas travelers,  Kate Hanni , executive director of consumer
group FlyersRight.org of Napa, California, said in an interview.  
 ‘Sickens Me’  
 “It sickens me we could not get international flights
included,” Hanni said. “Some of the worst standings we’ve had
have been diverted international flights.”  
 Authorities at Bradley airport refused the airline’s
request to unload passengers from the plane while waiting for
immigration officers to arrive, which took more than two hours,
airline spokesman Greg Dawson said today.  
 “This is probably a rather unusual circumstance, you don’t
usually divert an international flight to those smaller
airports,” said  Jim Corridore , a Standard & Poor’s equity
analyst in New York. “Members of Congress looking for an excuse
to ratchet up the pressure could certainly use it if they want
to.”  
 A hard deadline may strand passengers for as long as 24
hours, as carriers are forced to cancel the only daily flight to
a foreign destination, said  Steve Lott , a spokesman for the
Montreal-based International Air Transport Association trade
group, which represents 230 carriers worldwide.  
 Relief Crews  
 Complications might result when foreign carriers are forced
to fly in relief crews from a distant country, further delaying
a flight, Lott said.  
 “We need to take a close look to see if these rules really
protect the passenger,” he said.  
 A rule that applied to international flights would need
government support to ensure U.S. Customs and Border Protection
officials were available or on-call at every airport in the U.S.
where a flight might get diverted, and that could be costly,
said  Brett Snyder , a former analyst and manager at UAL Corp.’s
United Airlines and America West Airlines.  
 “People love to view things like this as airlines holding
passengers hostage,” said Snyder, now president of the
CrankyFlier.com travel blog. “That wasn’t the case here at all.
By law, they couldn’t let those people off the plane and just
wandering around the airport without Customs.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        