-- Harvard Scientists Make Lung-on-a-Chip To Help Test Drugs, Air Pollution
-- Rob Waters
-- 2010-06-24T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/harvard-scientists-make-lung-on-a-chip-to-help-test-drugs-air-pollution.html

          
          
             A coin-sized device created by
Harvard University researchers mimics the workings of a  human
lung  on a computer chip and may provide a way to test drugs and
assess the impact of environmental pollutants.  
 The see-through  lung-on-a-chip  contains two chambers
separated by a flexible, porous membrane lined with human lung
cells on one side and cells from capillary blood vessels on the
other. It acts like the  air sacs  that make up human lungs,
rhythmically stretching and expanding to duplicate the effects
of breathing.  
 The faux lung may save drug companies time and money by
enabling them to gauge the effects of inhaled medications, said
 Donald Ingber , the founding director of Harvard’s  Wyss Institute 
for Biologically Inspired Engineering in Boston and lead
designer of the device. Ingber’s work was published today in the
journal  Science .  
 “It’s a technological tour de force,” said  Norman
Edelman , chief medical officer of the  American Lung Association 
and a pulmonologist at Stony Brook University Medical Center in
Stony Brook, New York. “To be able to simulate all those
biological functions on a chip is wonderful.”  
 The technology will need to be compared with conventional
methods of testing medications in laboratory mice to show it can
accurately measure drug effects, Edelman said in a telephone
interview yesterday.  
 Rat Lung Rebuilt  
 In a separate study also published in  Science ,
researchers at Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut, took
apart and rebuilt the lung of a rat. They stripped away all the
living cells and tissue from the rat lung and used the remaining
structure as a scaffold, loading new cells on it to create an
engineered laboratory lung. The lung was implanted in a living
rat and functioned for close to an hour, exchanging carbon
dioxide and oxygen as normal lungs do.  
 “This is an early step in the regeneration of entire lungs
for larger animals and, eventually, for humans,” said  Laura
Niklason , a biomedical engineering professor and lead author of
the study, in a statement.  
 Harvard’s Ingber has spent 30 years working in the field of
tissue engineering, the effort to synthesize tissues and organs
in the laboratory. His current project got started three years
ago when his co-author  Dongeun Huh  and colleagues at the
University of Michigan in Ann Arbor developed a  forerunner  to
the current device that simulated the small airways of the
lungs.  
 ‘Crackling Noise’  
 “They flowed little fluid droplets to mimic mucus on the
lungs and it made a crackling noise that was precisely what I
learned to listen for when I was a medical student and put a
stethoscope on a patient,” he said.  
 Ingber and his team improved on this idea by creating a
device that also incorporated the mechanical stresses of
expanding and contracting lungs and the effects that one group
of cells has on another when they are connected and interacting,
Ingber said.  
 “People have worked for years on improving cell culture
systems for use in drug discovery and have gone from cells to
groups of cells,” he said. “Organs are the next step up.”  
 Ingber and his colleagues tested the system by trickling
fresh white blood cells on the capillary side of the membrane
and then putting E. coli bacteria on the airway side. When they
added the bacteria, the blood cells abruptly stuck to the
membrane and migrated across it to engulf the bacteria and kill
them, just as would occur with a lung infection in a person.  
 Tiny  nanoparticles  that act like pollutants in the air were
also sent into the airway channel and the team could watch as
they were absorbed into the lining of the tissue and across the
membrane.  
 Ingber plans to make use of new technology to put stem
cells made from a patient’s own skin onto the chip to simulate
his or her diseased tissue -- a personalized lung surrogate.  
 The institute also is developing synthetic hearts, kidneys
and even tumors that may eventually be linked together to gauge
the effect of new therapies on interactive organ systems, Ingber
said. Next up in the neo-organ pipeline: a gut-on-a-chip.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        