-- European Stocks, U.S. Futures Drop
-- Stephen Kirkland
-- 2010-06-24T12:25:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/asia-stocks-rise-for-first-time-in-three-days-aussie-climbs-on-rudd-exit.html

          
          
             European  stocks  fell, led by Greece,
and U.S. index futures dropped on concern slowing economic
growth will hurt the most indebted countries. The yen
strengthened and two-year Treasuries gained.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  lost 0.9 percent as Greece’s ASE
Index tumbled 3.4 percent at 8:20 a.m. in New York. Futures on
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.8 percent. The yen
appreciated against all of the 16 most-traded currencies, and
the U.S. Treasury note rose, sending the yield to the lowest
since November. Greek bonds dropped, driving the premium to
German bunds to the widest since May 7.  
 The Federal Reserve, pledging to keep its benchmark
interest rate at a record low for an “extended period,”
signaled that Europe’s debt crisis may harm American growth,
according to a statement yesterday. A report on jobless claims
today may underscore the Fed’s view that the expansion is being
restrained as joblessness limits consumer purchases.  
 “The world is going to have more economic problems,”  Jim Rogers , chairman of Rogers Holdings, said by phone from Hong
Kong. “We have a problem with too much debt and too much
consumption and that’s going to continue. I’m short stocks and
long commodities and long some currencies.”  
 More than five stocks fell for every one that gained on the
 Stoxx 600  index, as all 19 industry groups retreated except for
telecommunications stocks. Banks and basic-resources shares led
declines, with lenders BNP Paribas SA and Credit Suisse Group AG
sliding 3 percent.  
 Mining companies Anglo American Plc and Rio Tinto Group
lost more than 2 percent in London. The shares gained earlier
after Australia’s  Kevin Rudd  was ousted as prime minister by his
deputy  Julia Gillard , prompting speculation about whether a
proposed super-tax on the mining industry will be watered down.  
 Asian Stocks  
 Most  Asian stocks  fell, while the MSCI Asia Pacific Index
was little changed. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slid 0.6
percent, declining for a third day. Cnooc Ltd., China’s biggest
offshore oil explorer, lost 1.9 percent in Hong Kong.  
 The decline in U.S. futures indicated the S&P 500 may fall
for a fourth day. Caterpillar Inc., the world’s largest maker of
construction equipment, slipped 1.4 percent in Swiss trading.
 Nike Inc. , the largest maker of athletic shoes, sank 1.9 percent
in Germany after revenue missed analysts’ estimates.  
 A report from the Commerce Department due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington may show orders for durable goods excluding
transportation equipment rose 1 percent in May, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Total orders may fall 1.4
percent, depressed by a plunge in volatile demand for commercial
aircraft, economists said. A separate report due at the same
time from the Labor Department may show jobless claims fell to
463,000 during the week, from 472,000, economists said.  
 Yen Strengthens  
 The yen strengthened to 89.36 per dollar from 89.82
yesterday. The euro slipped to $1.2286 from $1.2311 and fell to
109.82 yen from 110.57.  
 Bonds rallied as stocks fell, with the yield on the two-
year Treasury note falling three basis points to 0.65 percent,
after dropping to 0.63 percent, the least since November. The
10-year German bund yield dropped to the lowest in more than a
week. U.K. gilts rose for a fourth day, pushing the 10-year
yield to an eight-month low, on speculation that this week’s
British budget cuts will help keep the nation’s top credit
rating.  
 The  extra yield , or spread, investors demand to hold 10-
year Greek debt instead of its German counterpart widened 10
basis points to 782 basis points today, or 7.82 percent.  
 The cost of credit-default swaps insuring Greek government
bonds rose 38 basis points to a record 970, according to CMA
DataVision. Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings climbed 8.5
basis points to 556, the highest level in a week, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 Gold slipped 0.4 percent to $1,230.60 an ounce. Crude oil
for August delivery lost 0.8 percent to $75.76 a barrel on the
New York Mercantile Exchange. Copper for delivery in three
months rose 0.6 percent to $6,554 a metric ton on the London
Metal Exchange, paring an earlier gain of 2.6 percent.  
 ----With assistance from  Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow and  Keith Campbell ,  Claudia Carpenter ,  David Merritt ,  Abigail Moses  and
 Andrew Reierson  in London. Editors:  Stephen Kirkland ,  Paul Sillitoe   
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephen Kirkland  in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Incoming Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard. Source: Australia's Government House via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Christopher Mayer, a professor at Columbia University, talks with Bloomberg's Matt Miller about the outlook for the U.S. housing market. (This report is an excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
