-- Asian Currencies Decline, Led by Philippine Peso, as Yuan Forwards Weaken
-- Frances Yoon
-- 2010-06-24T09:01:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/asian-currencies-rise-led-by-ringgit-as-u-s-pledges-low-interest-rates.html

          
          
             The Philippine peso and South Korean
won led declines in Asian currencies today as yuan forwards
weakened, signaling traders are reducing bets for currency
appreciation in the world’s fastest-growing economy.  
 The peso also fell on concern the Philippines’ widening
 budget deficit  will erode the appeal of the nation’s assets.
Thailand’s baht slid for a third day on concern the central bank
will intervene to check appreciation that might hurt exports.
Regional currencies earlier strengthened as the yuan traded near
the highest level since 1993.  
 “There was strong demand for shorting the dollar on
expectations the yuan will strengthen,” said Ha Jun Woo, a
currency dealer at Daegu Bank in Seoul. “But I believe those
shorting positions got squeezed toward the end of trade.”  
 The peso fell 0.6 percent to close at 46.32 per dollar in
Manila. The Korean won declined 0.2 percent to 1,189.45 and the
Thai baht was 0.2 percent weaker at 32.42 as of 3:46 p.m. in
Bangkok. The yuan’s 12-month non-deliverable forwards declined
0.2 percent to 6.6717, 2 percent stronger than the spot rate of
6.8063, the smallest premium this week.  
 Expectations of a stronger yuan have largely been
“factored in” to the won, South Korea’s finance ministry said
today in a report. Standard Chartered Plc lowered its end-
September estimates for the peso and baht to 46.50 and 32.50,
respectively, from 45.50 and 32.00.  
 Philippines Deficit  
 The Philippine government two days ago reported a budget
 deficit  for the last five months that exceeded its projection
for the first half of 2010. The Bureau of Internal Revenue,
which collects more than two-thirds of state income, missed its
revenue target for May, Commissioner Joel Tan-Torres said this
week.  
 “The deficit is an excuse for investors caught in a long
peso position to cover,” said  Rafael Algarra , a treasurer at
Security Bank Corp. in Manila, referring to trades that would
profit from gains in the Philippine currency. “The impact of
the deficit will be felt more in the fixed-income market.”  
 The Philippine economy still needs “stimulus spending” to
support growth, Budget Undersecretary Laura Pascua said in a
televised briefing today.  
 ‘Pause Appreciation’  
 The Bank of Thailand said yesterday it entered the foreign-
exchange market this week to curb baht gains. The bias is for
the currency to appreciate, given the outlook on the nation’s
trade inflows, said  Minori Uchida , a senior analyst at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. A government report next week will
show Southeast Asia’s second-biggest economy swung to a current-
account surplus last month, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  
 “The central bank may want to pause the baht’s
appreciation,” said Tokyo-based Uchida. “A current-account
surplus would mean more money coming into Thailand than going
out.”  
 Elsewhere, Taiwan’s dollar slid 0.1 percent to NT$32.216
and Indonesia’s rupiah fell 0.1 percent to 9,063. The Singapore
dollar declined 0.2 percent to S$1.391.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Bob Chen  in Hong Kong at 
 bchen45@bloomberg.net ;
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Kathy Lien, director of currency research at online currency trader GFT Forex, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about the European debt crisis and the outlook for the euro.
     Lien, speaking from Sydney, also discusses the appointment of Julia Gillard as Australia’s prime minister and its implications for the nation's currency, China's yuan policy, and the outlook for the New Zealand and Canadian dollars. Lien spoke before Gillard was sworn in as prime minister.(Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Indonesian Trade Minister Mari Pangestu talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about the shift in China's currency policy and its implications for regional trade.
     Pangestu, speaking from Jakarta, also discusses the outlook for Indonesia's palm oil industry, and global efforts to fight climate change. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
