-- Atlas Iron, BHO, Caltex, Lihir, Rio, Healthscope: Australian Stock Preview
-- Sarah McDonald
-- 2010-06-24T22:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/atlas-iron-bho-caltex-lihir-rio-healthscope-australian-stock-preview.html

          
          
             The following is a list of companies
whose shares may rise or fall in Australia. This preview
includes news announced after markets closed. All prices are
from yesterday’s close unless otherwise stated.  
 The S&P/ASX 200 Index  futures contract  due in Sept. rose
1.3 percent to 4,428 at 6:59 a.m. in Sydney. The  Bank of New
York Australia ADR Index  lost 3 percent. The  S&P/ASX 200 Index 
slipped 0.1 percent to 4479.7.  
 Mining shares: BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto
Group slid in London and New York trading on speculation
Australia’s incoming Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  will pursue a
new mining tax, even after she agreed to consult companies on
the plan that has sparked widespread protests among companies,
workers and politicians.  
 BHP Billiton  (BHP AU), the world’s largest mining company,
climbed 1.3 percent to A$39.65 in Sydney yesterday. Its American
depositary receipts dropped 2.3 percent in New York trading.  
 Guinea’s government sent  Rio Tinto  (RIO AU) a letter
informing the world’s third-largest mining company of its
intention to acquire a 20 percent stake in blocks 3 and 4 of the
Simandou iron ore concession. Guinea has the rights to buy the
stake,  Mahmoud Thiam , the country’s mines minister, said. The
stock gained 1.7 percent to A$71.73 in Sydney yesterday. It fell
4 percent in New York.  
 Oil companies: Crude oil finished little changed after
being pushed up by U.S. factory orders and improved unemployment
figures, then down as equities declined amid concern the
European debt crisis is worsening. Crude for August delivery
gained 16 cents to settle at $76.51 a barrel on the New York
Mercantile Exchange.  
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd.  (WPL AU), Australia’s second-
largest oil and gas producer, dropped 0.2 percent to A$44.56,
and rival Santos Ltd. (STO AU) gained 0.2 percent to A$12.81.  
 Gold producers: Gold futures rose the most in a week after
the Federal Reserve said it will keep U.S. borrowing costs low
for an extended period, which may weaken the dollar and boost
the appeal of the precious metal. Gold futures for delivery in
August rose 0.9 percent to $1,245.90 an ounce on the Comex.  
 Newcrest Mining Ltd.  (NCM AU), Australia’s biggest gold
producer, climbed 0.8 percent to A$35.65.  
 Lihir Gold Ltd.  (LGL AU), the second-largest gold producer
on the Australian stock exchange, was raised to “outperform”
from “underperform” at Credit Suisse Group AG by equity
analyst  Michael Slifirski . The stock gained 0.9 percent to
A$4.37.  
 Atlas Iron Ltd.  (AGO AU): The Australian iron-ore producer
set to expand output fivefold this year is in talks with three
groups from Asia and the Middle East to sell a stake in its
A$2.7 billion ($2.36 billion) Ridley project, Chief Executive
Officer  David Flanagan  said. The stock climbed 4.7 percent to
A$2.24.  
 Caltex Australia Ltd.  (CTX AU): The company said it expects
an after-tax profit in the range of A$125 million to A$145
million for the first half of 2010. The stock fell 4.5 percent
to A$10.35.  
 Healthscope Ltd.  (HSP AU): CVC Asia Pacific scrapped plans
to team with Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. in a takeover offer
for Australia’s second-biggest hospital owner, the Australian
Financial Review reported in its Street Talk column, without
saying where it got the information. KKR is still doing due
diligence for its bid, which may compete with a rival group
including Blackstone Group LP, TPG Capital and Carlyle Group,
the newspaper said. The stock gained 0.9 percent to A$5.35.  
 IOOF Holdings Ltd.  (IFL AU): The Australian fund manager’s
potential acquisition of Axa Asia Pacific Holdings Ltd.’s North
investment platform has been questioned by opponents of the deal,
the Australian Financial Review reported, citing unidentified
people it said were familiar with negotiations. Leaked research
says IOOF wouldn’t have the distribution or scale to absorb
North, the newspaper said. The stock rose 0.8 percent to A$6.23.  
 Orica Ltd.  (ORI AU): The world’s largest industrial
explosives maker was raised to “outperform” from “neutral”
at Credit Suisse by equity analyst  Rohan Gallagher . The stock
fell 2.7 percent to A$25.39.  
 DUET Group  (DUE AU): The energy asset investment company
backed by AMP Capital was rated “hold” in new coverage at
Deutsche Bank AG by equity analyst  John Hirjee . The stock
dropped 7.5 percent to A$1.655.  
 Qantas Airways Ltd.  (QAN AU): Australia’s biggest airline
was raised to “overweight” from “neutral” at JPMorgan Chase
& Co. by equity analyst  Scott Carroll . Shares gained 0.4 percent
to A$2.36.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        