-- Australian Mining Stocks, Currency Gain as Rudd's Demise May Change Tax
-- Candice Zachariahs
-- 2010-06-24T06:33:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/australian-stocks-currency-gain-as-rudd-s-demise-may-change-mining-tax.html

          
          
             Australia’s mining  stocks  rose and
the currency ended two days of losses against the yen as Prime
Minister  Kevin Rudd  was forced out by his deputy, sparking
speculation the government may change a proposed mining tax.  
 Shares of resource companies including Macarthur Coal Ltd.
and Riversdale Mining Ltd. led the increase in resources stocks,
balancing losses in utilities and financial shares that saw the
S&P/ASX 200 Index finish little changed at the close of trading
in Sydney. Rudd’s popularity plunged after criticism from mining
companies including Melbourne-based BHP Billiton Ltd. and
London-based Rio Tinto Group over plans to impose a 40 percent
levy on mining profits from 2012.  Julia Gillard , who has taken
over from Rudd, said she was “throwing open the government’s
door” to negotiate with the mining industry.  
 “The assumption at this stage is that the new prime
minister will be more willing to consult and negotiate on the
resources tax,” said  Stephen Halmarick , Sydney-based head of
investment-markets research at Colonial First State Global Asset
Management, which oversees about $135 billion. “A deal is
probably now more likely, which would result in a less onerous
tax regime on the mining sector.”  
 The benchmark S&P/ASX 200  Index  fell 0.1 percent to 4,479.7
at the 4:10 p.m. close of Sydney trading. The materials index,
which includes resources stocks, climbed 1 percent. Australia’s
dollar bought 78.53 yen from 78.49 yen.  
 Macarthur Coal, the world’s biggest exporter of pulverized
coal, advanced 6.4 percent A$12.34.  BHP  shares climbed 1.3
percent to A$39.65 and Rio Tinto advanced 1.7 percent to A$71.73.
Riversdale Mining jumped 7.7 percent to A$11.35.  
 ‘Clean Slate’  
 BHP said in a statement it is encouraged by Gillard’s
appointment and asked its advertising agencies to suspend all
advertisements it has been running against the proposed mining
tax.  
 “The change in Labor Party leader is a really good
opportunity to clean the slate, start from go,” said  Peter Chilton , who holds shares in BHP and Rio for Constellation
Capital Management Ltd. in Sydney.  
 There’s “no doubt” that Gillard will change the proposed
tax, Sundance Resources Ltd.’s incoming Chairman  George Jones 
said on Bloomberg Television.  
 Mining companies’ earnings may be cut by almost a third
when the tax starts in 2012, Moody’s Investors Service said last
month. Companies, including BHP and Rio, said the levy would
threaten resource investments, while Xstrata Plc and Fortescue
Metals Group Ltd. put expansions worth $21 billion on hold.  
 Optimism over changes to the levy drove gains in Mitsubishi
Corp., Japan’s largest commodity trader, which owns mining
interests in Australia. The MSCI Asia Pacific  Index  rose 0.2
percent. Australia is the world’s biggest shipper of coal and
iron ore.  
 Mining Optimism  
 “The market is expecting a change,” said  Tim Leung , who
helps manage about $1.5 billion at IG Investment Ltd. in Hong
Kong. “We are relatively optimistic on mining companies.”  
 Credit-default swaps protecting against a default by BHP
Billiton fell 2 basis points to 84 basis points as of 2:31 p.m.
in Sydney, according to Nomura Holdings Inc. Contracts on Rio
Tinto dropped 3 basis points to 122 basis points, Nomura prices
show.  
 “The Australian dollar, resources, and Australian equities
will be the likely beneficiaries and should find immediate and
longer-term support from today’s change of prime minister,”  Su- Lin Ong , senior economist at RBC Capital Markets Ltd. in Sydney,
wrote in a note to clients. “The resolution of political
uncertainty also bodes well for the Australian dollar.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Peter Rudd, director of mining and resources at Balnave Capital, talks with Bloomberg's Judith Bogner about Julia Gillard's appointment today as Australian prime minister and its potential implications for the government's proposed tax on mining profits.
     Gillard, who was sworn in as leader after ousting Kevin Rudd, said she is willing to negotiate on the proposed tax with mining companies. BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group led gains in Australian miners after Gillard made the comments. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
