-- Australia M&A Bankers Buoyed as Gillard Extends Olive Branch on Mining Tax
-- Angus Whitley
-- 2010-06-25T07:33:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/australia-m-a-bankers-buoyed-as-gillard-extends-olive-branch-on-mining-tax.html

          
          
             Mining takeovers in Australia may
reverse a slump after new Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  signaled
a desire to resolve a dispute over a minerals tax that prompted
the downfall of her predecessor, investment bankers said.  
 “A lot of our clients are interested in making increased
investments in resources,” said  Simon Ranson , head of mergers
and acquisitions at Citigroup Inc. in Sydney. “The developments
are being taken very positively. Clients are much happier now.”  
 Mining acquisitions in Australia tumbled to a more than
four-year low this quarter after  Kevin Rudd , dumped as leader
yesterday by his party, proposed the resources levy on May 2. As
companies including  Xstrata Plc  and  BHP Billiton Ltd.  lobbied to
change the tax, buyers and sellers of assets struggled to agree
on valuations, bankers have said.  
 Gillard, hours after being elected the new Labor Party
leader, yesterday told reporters she “will seek consensus”
over the 40 percent levy on mining profits. “We need to
negotiate, we must end this uncertainty,” she said.  
 The number of mining transactions in Australia tumbled to
48 this quarter, valued at a total of $879 million, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 89 deals worth
$9.11 billion a year earlier, and is on pace for the lowest
value since the fourth quarter of 2005.  
 Rudd wanted to start the tax from 2012, raising an
estimated A$12 billion ($10 billion) in the first two years.
 Miners  attacked the government with a blitz of television
advertisements. Rudd’s ratings suffered and he was forced out.  
 ‘Open Their Minds’  
 While Gillard, 48, told parliament yesterday that miners
can pay more tax and Australians deserve a larger share of the
country’s mineral wealth, she also promised “genuine
negotiations.” She axed government television advertisements in
support of the tax and asked the miners to do the same.  
 “The government is opening its door and I’m asking them to
open their minds,” the new prime minister told lawmakers
yesterday. “At the appropriate time, the government will make
further announcements.”  
 Her comments cheered Australia’s dealmakers, who have seen
transactions dry up since the policy was proposed.  Peabody
Energy Corp. , the biggest U.S. coal company, in May cut its
takeover offer for  Macarthur Coal Ltd.  6.3 percent to A$3.8
billion, citing the tax. Macarthur rejected the bid.  
 “Uncertainty is the enemy of the transaction,” said  Ian Maxton , Sydney-based head of investment banking at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in Sydney. “The new prime minister’s aim to enter
negotiations and get some resolution will remove uncertainty.
She’s certainly offering an olive branch.”  
 Union Support  
 Australia is the second-biggest producer of nickel and
alumina, and the third-biggest producer of manganese and zinc,
according to data compiled by UBS AG. The resources tax risks
driving foreign investment in Australia’s miners into other
regions, Citigroup Inc. said in a June 17 report.  
 “The first thing the government will want to do is sort it
out,” said  Andrew Pridham , head of Australian investment
banking at Moelis & Co. “In terms of M&A, it’s a long-term
process that companies go through. If there’s a stable political
environment in terms of policy, people are going to be more
prone to making decisions.”  
 Gillard is more likely to alter than scrap the proposed
mining tax, said Credit Suisse Group AG.  
 “The unions -- who have a strong influence in this Labor
government -- have supported the proposed resource super profits
tax and so too has the International Monetary Fund,” Credit
Suisse analyst  Paul McTaggart  said in a report. “The IMF has
(behind the scenes) been calling for developing nations to move
to a RSPT type tax regime with higher taxes for mining.”  
 Sign of Progress  
 BHP Billiton  and Rio Tinto Group agreed yesterday to stop
advertising campaigns against the tax after Gillard ordered the
cessation of the government’s ads. That may be “a sign that we
can expect more progress on the resource super profits tax issue
in the coming weeks,” McTaggart said.  
 Rio Tinto , the world’s third-largest mining company, is
“hopeful” the dispute over Australia’s proposed mining tax
will be resolved before the next federal election.  
 “I’m very hopeful that with the recent changes in the
structure of the government we can actually get in and engage
and negotiate an arrangement,”  Sam Walsh , the head of Rio’s
iron-ore operations, told reporters in Perth. “We will support
a proper tax reform.”  
 For Related News and Information:
BHP financial overview BHP AU <Equity> FA1 <GO>
Rio risk profile RIO LN <EQUITY> RSKC <GO>
Top metals stories METT <GO>
Global commodity prices, data GLCO <GO>  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard pauses during a press conference in Canberra. Photographer: Scott Barbour/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Colin Whitehead, equity analyst at Fat Prophets, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the potential implications of Julia Gillard's appointment as Australian prime minister for the government's proposed mining profits tax.
     Gillard, who was sworn in yesterday after ousting Kevin Rudd, said she is willing to negotiate on the tax with mining companies. Whitehead, speaking from Sydney, also discusses the outlook for Australian mining stocks and the global economy.  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Jonathan Barratt, managing director at Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney, talks with Bloomberg's Maryam Nemazee about Julia Gillard's appointment today as Australian prime minister and its potential implications for the government's proposed tax on mining profits and for resources stocks.
     Gillard became Australia’s first female prime minister, ousting Kevin Rudd as Labor Party leader, after his plans to boost taxes on the mining industry deepened a slump in opinion polls. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Peter Rudd, director of mining and resources at Balnave Capital, talks with Bloomberg's Judith Bogner about Julia Gillard's appointment today as Australian prime minister and its potential implications for the government's proposed tax on mining profits.
     Gillard, who was sworn in as leader after ousting Kevin Rudd, said she is willing to negotiate on the proposed tax with mining companies. BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group led gains in Australian miners after Gillard made the comments. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Craig Ferguson, a currency hedge fund manager at Antipodean Capital Management, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about his forecast for the Australian dollar.
     Ferguson, speaking from Melbourne, also discusses the implications of Julia Gillard's appointment as Australia's prime minister on the nation's currency and proposed mining profits tax, and the outlook for the yuan. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
