-- Australia's New Leader Gillard Likely to Tax Miners, Morgan Stanley Says
-- Kana Nishizawa
-- 2010-06-25T06:45:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/australia-s-new-leader-gillard-likely-to-tax-miners-morgan-stanley-says.html

          
          
             Australia’s new Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  is still likely to introduce a tax on resources profits
following negotiations with mining companies over the levy that
helped the premier oust her predecessor, Morgan Stanley said.  
 Gillard was closely connected to former prime minister
 Kevin Rudd ’s policy decisions, which allows little prospect for
a big change, Morgan Stanley strategist  Gerard Minack  said in a
telephone interview from Sydney.  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and  Rio Tinto
Group  slid in Sydney trading on speculation Gillard will pursue
the tax. The stocks rose yesterday after she pledged to consult
companies on the plan.  
 “We will still get a super profits tax on the mining
sector,” said Minack. “You can’t assume that a change in prime
minister means that the tax gets dropped.”  
 Rudd’s support began to slide after he proposed a 40
percent tax on the “super profits” of resource projects in
Australia, the world’s biggest shipper of coal and iron ore.
Gillard had been Rudd’s deputy since December 2006 and helped
Labor win power in 2007 from  John Howard ’s coalition after
almost 12 years in opposition.  
 A gauge of materials shares, which includes resources
companies, in the  S&P/ASX 200 Index  rose as much as 1.9 percent
yesterday after Gillard said she will start negotiations on the
government’s proposed “super profits” tax. It dropped as much
as 1.9 percent today in Sydney.  
 ‘Secondary Issue’  
 Concerns about global growth and a slowdown in Australia’s
economy are larger issues for the nation’s market, according to
Minack. The  MSCI World Index  of shares has fallen 7.6 percent
this year, while the S&P/ASX 200 has tumbled 9.4 percent, on
concerns deficits in Europe and credit tightening by China would
undermine the strength of the global economic recovery.  
 “Taxation is going to be only a secondary issue if there
are concerns about a global double-dip,” said Minack. Australia
is now reversing its “extremely well-timed policy stimulus”
that helped the nation avoid the worst of the global downturn
last year, he said.  
 “This year, Australia is seeing payback for its success
last year,” Minack said.  
 Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index surged 31 percent in 2009,
compared with 27 percent for the MSCI World Index. The  S&P/ASX
200 Index  declined 1.5 percent to 4,413 at the close of trading
in Sydney today.  
 BHP ‘Encouraged’  
 UBS AG also expects Gillard will push ahead with the mining
tax. “It remains highly likely that a mining tax will be
introduced,”  Olivia Ker , a London-based mining analyst at UBS,
said in a report. “Given the proposed new negotiation, the
resolution of details may now be further in the future, opening
up a longer period of uncertainty.”  
 BHP dropped 2.1 percent to A$38.80 in Sydney, and Rio
declined 3 percent to A$69.60.  
 “We still don’t have absolute clarity on what the Labor
government position is going to be,”  Richard Knights , an
analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. in London, said in a telephone
interview. “The market was hoping that she might come out and
say, ‘Look, we oppose the tax,’ or maybe something more
concrete.”  
 BHP, based in Melbourne, said it’s encouraged by Gillard’s
appointment and has asked publicity agencies to suspend all of
its advertisements against the proposed tax, according to a
statement. Rio, the world’s third-largest mining company, said
it’s “cautiously encouraged” by Gillard’s comments on the tax.  
 Xstrata Plc  welcomed Gillard’s willingness to engage in
talks, and said they must be concluded as rapidly as possible to
avoid further damage to the mining industry in Australia,
according to a company spokesperson who declined to be
identified.  
 “The change of leadership may have a short-term positive
impact on Australia’s currency and equity market,” said  Paul Brennan , a senior economist at Citigroup Inc. “Our year-end
market target for the S&P/ASX 200 Index remains at 5,500.”  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Craig Ferguson, a currency hedge fund manager at Antipodean Capital Management, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about his forecast for the Australian dollar.
     Ferguson, speaking from Melbourne, also discusses the implications of Julia Gillard's appointment as Australia's prime minister on the nation's currency and proposed mining profits tax, and the outlook for the yuan. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Colin Whitehead, equity analyst at Fat Prophets, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the potential implications of Julia Gillard's appointment as Australian prime minister for the government's proposed mining profits tax.
     Gillard, who was sworn in yesterday after ousting Kevin Rudd, said she is willing to negotiate on the tax with mining companies. Whitehead, speaking from Sydney, also discusses the outlook for Australian mining stocks and the global economy.  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
