-- Australian, New Zealand Stocks: ANZ, AWE, BHP, Riversdale, Macquarie
-- Sarah McDonald
-- 2010-06-24T06:49:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/australian-new-zealand-stocks-anz-awe-bhp-riversdale-macquarie.html

          
          
             Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index  fell
0.1 percent to 4,479.70 at the close of trading in Sydney. New
Zealand’s  NZX 50 Index  declined 0.2 percent to 3,049.47 in
Wellington.  
 The following were among the most active shares in the
market today. Stock symbols are in parentheses after company
names.  
 Mining shares: Australian Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd 
resigned as Labor Party leader and was replaced by his former
deputy  Julia Gillard  after a proposed tax on the mining industry
caused his opinion poll ratings to plunge and lost him the
support of his party. Gillard said she was willing to negotiate
over a tax on mining profits.  
 Rio Tinto Group  (RIO AU), the world’s third-biggest mining
company, advanced 1.7 percent to A$71.73.  Iluka Resources Ltd. 
(ILU AU) rose 2.4 percent to A$4.80, while Murchison Metals Ltd.
(MMX AU) increased 1.4 percent to A$2.24.  
 BHP Billiton Ltd.  (BHP AU) gained 1.3 percent to A$39.65.
The world’s largest mining company said it is encouraged by the
appointment of Gillard and has asked its advertising agencies to
suspend all advertisements it was running against the proposed
mining tax.  
 Riversdale Mining Ltd.  (RIV AU) soared 7.7 percent to
A$11.35. The Australian coal developer said it signed an initial
$800 million agreement with Wuhan Iron & Steel Co. to develop a
coking coal project in Mozambique’s Tete province.  
 AWE Ltd.  (AWE AU) dropped 4.8 percent to A$1.875. The oil
and natural gas explorer’s Tui SW-2 well has been suspended as a
future gas injection well, according to a statement submitted to
the exchange. New Zealand Oil & Gas Ltd. (NZO NZ), New Zealand’s
biggest publicly traded explorer and a partner in the nation’s
Tui oil field, retreated 2.3 percent to NZ$1.27 in Wellington.  
 Boral Ltd.  (BLD AU) gained 2 percent to A$5.06. Australia’s
largest seller of building materials was raised to “buy” from
“neutral” at UBS AG by equity analyst  David Leitch .  
 ConnectEast Group  (CEU AU) fell 2.6 percent to 33
Australian cents. Goldman Sachs JBWere Pty analyst  Jonathan Collett  yesterday cut his rating on the Melbourne-based toll-
road operator to “sell” from “hold.”  
 Elders Ltd.  (ELD AU) tumbled for a second day, losing 12
percent to 37.5 Australian cents. The world’s largest wool
broker plunged 15 percent yesterday when it was cut to “hold”
from “buy” at Deutsche Bank AG by equity analyst  Philip Pepe .  
 Macquarie Group Ltd.  (MQG AU) dropped 4.7 percent to
A$40.65. Australia’s biggest investment bank said increasingly
uncertain markets are weighing on some parts of its business.  
 Qantas Airways Ltd.  (QAN AU) gained 0.4 percent to A$2.36.
Australia’s biggest airline will focus on cost cutting to make
the carrier the nation’s most popular airline brand by the end
of the year, the Australian Financial Review reported, citing
new Chief Financial Officer  Gareth Evans . Qantas is also
reducing the number of cheap flights within Australia to
encourage travelers to buy more expensive tickets, the newspaper
said.  
 Sigma Pharmaceuticals Ltd.  (SIP AU) tumbled 5.4 percent to
44 Australian cents. Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Ltd. of South
Africa may alter or scrap its offer for Sigma amid a potential
class action lawsuit against the Australian company, the
Australian Financial Review reported. Aspen, which is conducting
due diligence on the drugmaker, is “uneasy” about bearing the
risk of the lawsuit before formalizing its A$707 million bid,
the newspaper reported without saying where it got the
information.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        