-- Axa Sells U.K. Unit to Resolution for $4.1 Billion
-- Kevin Crowley
-- 2010-06-24T12:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/axa-sells-part-of-u-k-division-to-cowdery-s-resolution-for-4-1-billion.html

          
          
             Axa SA , Europe’s second-biggest
insurer, agreed to sell most of its British life unit to  Clive Cowdery ’s  Resolution Ltd.  for 2.75 billion pounds ($4.1 billion)
as the company switches its focus to Asia.  
 Resolution plans to raise 2.06 billion pounds in a rights
offering to help fund the purchase, it said in an e-mailed
statement today. Resolution’s shares, which were suspended on
June 14, will resume trading the day after its offering
prospectus is published at the end of this month.  
 Axa, like fellow European insurers including Prudential
Plc, is cutting business in developed markets such as the U.K.
to fund growth in faster-growing Asian economies. Resolution
will merge the assets it buys from Axa with Friends Provident
Plc, which it bought for 1.9 billion pounds last year.  
 “Axa is cashing in to reallocate that capital,” said
 Trevor Moss , a London-based analyst at Berenberg Bank who has a
“hold’ rating on Resolution. “Axa is getting a good price.”  
 Axa fell 0.8 percent to 13.45 euros as of 1:48 p.m. in
Paris, giving the insurer a market value of 30.8 billion euros
($37.8 billion). The stock has fallen 19 percent this year,
more than the 3.4 percent drop in the 30-member Bloomberg Europe
500 Insurance Index. Resolution has a market value of about
1.5 billion pounds.  
 Booking a Loss  
 Axa’s shareholder equity will increase by about 800 million
euros following the transaction, the company said. It will book
an exceptional loss of about 1.4 billion euros this year as a
result of the sale.  
 “This gives additional leeway” to finance potential
takeovers or to bolster existing businesses, Chief Executive
Officer Henri de Castries said on a conference call. “We
believe a lot in geographical diversification.” Axa will still
be profitable in the first half once the effect of selling the
U.K. assets is taken into account, he also said.  
 The Paris-based insurer expects to complete the sale in
the third quarter as about 2,200 employees are transferred to
Resolution, it said. The deal still needs approval from
Resolution’s shareholders.  
 Resolution, backed by U.K.  institutional investors 
including Aviva Plc and Schroders Plc, is halfway through its
plan to buy as many as four insurers before merging them and
selling them back to the market by 2013. The buyout firm is
betting lower U.K. sales and regulatory changes will force
insurers to exit the country or merge books of policies.  
 Market Share  
 Resolution, founded by Cowdery in 2008, will pay Axa
2.25 billion pounds in cash and about 500 million pounds in
notes. Axa U.K. will double Friends Provident’s share of the
British life and pensions market. Friends Provident was the 11th
biggest British life insurer in 2008 and Axa was the eighth
largest, according to the Association of British Insurers.  
 “They had endeavored to make an acquisition within a
certain period and they came to the point where they needed to
do something,” Moss at Berenberg said.  
 Resolution expects to make annual cost savings including
job cuts of about 75 million pounds, or 16 percent of the
combined cost base, until 2014 from merging the businesses.
Friends Provident has about 4,000 employees worldwide.
Resolution CEO  John Tiner  today declined to say how many
employees may lose their jobs.  
 Resolution will reduce the amount paid to Axa by 150
million pounds if it releases less than 1 billion pounds from
the French insurer’s “inherited estate.” An inherited estate
is a surplus built up from customers’ savings over time that is
typically split between policyholders and shareholders.  
 Wealth Management  
 Axa is selling its U.K. “traditional” life and pensions
operations, its protection and corporate-pensions businesses and
its annuity unit in the country, the French insurer said. It
will keep U.K. operations including wealth management, health
care and asset management.  
 Life and pension sales in the U.K. have fallen in the last
two years as British consumers paid down debt rather than saved.
European insurers will probably be asked by the European Union
to hold more capital reserves as a result of the new Solvency II
rules to be introduced in 2012.  
 Axa’s U.K. life and savings operations posted a 33 million-
euro net loss in 2009, compared with a 257 million-euro profit a
year earlier as investment fees and premiums dropped.  
 The French company is trying to acquire Axa Asia Pacific
Holdings Ltd.’s operations in eight Asian countries, including
China, Singapore, Indonesia, and Malaysia. It already owns 54
percent of the Melbourne-based company.  
 “The sale unblocks the situation, showing the management’s
capacity” to make acquisitions and disposals outside of France,
said  Francois Chaulet , who helps manage 160 million euros at
Montsegur Finance in Paris and holds Axa shares.  
 Shedding Assets  
 Axa is also weighing the sale of an Asian business.
National Australia Bank Ltd. said June 4 it was in preliminary
talks with potential buyers of an Axa Asia Pacific asset in an
attempt to gain regulatory approval to purchase the investment
manager. Melbourne-based National Australia Bank said June 1 it
agreed with Axa SA to extend until July 15 an accord to buy
asset manager Axa Asia Pacific.  
 The U.K. unit sale and the Axa Asia Pacific operation
“have no link,” de Castries said. “NAB is telling us that
it’s having discussions in a positive way with the Australian
authorities,” de Castries said. “Things are advancing.”  
 New CEO  
 Friends Provident CEO  Trevor Matthews  and Finance Director
 Evelyn Bourke  will become CEO and finance director of the new
combined U.K. company, Tiner said on a conference call.  
 The price paid by Resolution represents 79.8 percent of
Axa U.K.’s market consistent embedded value. Resolution paid
1.9 billion pounds in cash and stock for Friends Provident, or
65 percent of its embedded value. Embedded value is a measure
insurers use to calculate future payments from existing
policyholders.  
 Resolution’s existing investors have agreed to sub-
underwrite at least 52 percent of the shares sold in the rights
offer. RBC Capital Markets and Barclays Capital, who are
managing the share sale, agreed to underwrite the remaining
stock. Total underwriting costs will be 55.9 million pounds, or
2.72 percent of the rights offer, Resolution said.  
 “The transaction is a large step towards building a large-
scale life insurer that will deliver earnings growth with stable
cash generation and support the payment of a sustainable growing
dividend,” Tiner said.  
 Resolution will raise 2.06 billion pounds in the rights
offering, selling 17 new shares at 150 pence each for every 30
shares already held. That’s a 38 percent discount to the
theoretical ex-rights price of 242.2 pence a consolidated share,
based on the 60.3 pence closing price on June 11, Resolution
said in the statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fabio Benedetti-Valentini  in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net 
 Kevin Crowley  in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Founder of Resolution Ltd. Clive Cowdery. Source: Resolution via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Axa SA CEO Henri de Castries. Photographer: Antoine Antoniol/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
