-- Bank Credit Risk Rises as Financial-Overhaul Legislation Nears Completion
-- Craig Trudell
-- 2010-06-24T18:48:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/bank-credit-risk-rises-as-financial-overhaul-legislation-nears-completion.html

          
          
             The cost to protect against losses
on bonds of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley rose as
legislators negotiate financial-overhaul legislation that may
threaten Wall Street revenue.  
 Credit-default swaps on the banks climbed to the highest in
more than a week as members of the U.S. Senate and House of
Representatives settle on the final language of the legislation,
due to be completed as soon as today. Proposals include limits
on banks’ trading in over-the-counter derivatives, as well as on
how they invest their capital.  
 “I don’t think it’s as good of a bill as it was a couple
of weeks ago,”  Brian Gardner , head of Washington research for
Keefe Bruyett & Woods Inc., said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “I think it goes too far and it’s starting to really
cross over, quite clearly, not into the area of financial
regulatory reform, but into punishment of Wall Street.”  
 The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, gained 3.4 basis points to a mid-
price of 118.9 basis points as of 2:27 p.m. in New York,
according to Markit Group Ltd. The index, which has advanced
three consecutive days since reaching a three-week low on June
21, typically rises as investor confidence deteriorates.  
 Swaps on Morgan Stanley gained 16 basis points to 270 basis
points, and those on Goldman Sachs increased 8 basis points to
201 basis points, according to CMA DataVision prices. Contracts
tied to Bank of America Corp. advanced 6 basis points to 168.  
 Volcker, Lincoln Proposals  
 The House and Senate conferees are debating a ban on
proprietary trading, nicknamed the Volcker rule after former
Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , as well as a provision by
Arkansas Senator  Blanche Lincoln  that would require commercial
banks to move their swaps-trading desks to subsidiaries.  
 The 43-member conference committee is merging the financial
bill the House approved in December with the Senate version
passed last month to produce a single measure for President
Obama to sign into law. The bill would be the biggest overhaul
of financial regulation since the 1930s.  
 The legislation comes as analysts cut their earnings
forecasts for banks and securities firms because of a reduction
in investment banking and deterioration in markets in May and
June. Barclays Capital analysts slashed their estimates for
Goldman Sachs Group’s second-quarter earnings per share 64
percent yesterday to $1.95 from $5.35.  
 Hasbro Swaps Surge  
 Swaps on  Hasbro Inc. , the world’s second-biggest toymaker,
surged after the company denied that it’s in discussions
regarding a possible takeover.  
 Hasbro said today in a statement that it had spurned an
approach from a private-equity firm that it didn’t name and that
currently there are no talks about selling the company.
Providence Equity Partners Inc. was in discussions about buying
Hasbro as recently as last week before talks ended, according to
a person familiar with the matter.  
 Contracts tied to Hasbro jumped 97 basis points to 234
basis points, CMA DataVision prices show. Swaps on Hasbro’s
larger rival  Mattel Inc.  climbed 29 basis points to 166 basis
points, according to CMA.  
 Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        