-- British American Tobacco Names Nicandro Durante as Chief Executive Officer
-- Paul Jarvis
-- 2010-06-24T08:33:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/bat-says-adams-to-retire-as-ceo-after-seven-years-durante-to-succeed-him.html

          
          
             British American Tobacco Plc  Chief
Operating Officer  Nicandro Durante  will succeed  Paul Adams  as
chief executive officer of the maker of Lucky Strike cigarettes.  
 Durante, 53, will become CEO-designate on Sept. 1 and Adams
will retire at the end of February, London-based BAT said today.  
 During Adams’s  seven  years as CEO, BAT  purchased  more than
$5 billion worth of tobacco assets, including Denmark’s
Skandinavisk Tobakskompagni, Turkey’s Tekel and Indonesia’s
Bentoel. BAT’s stock almost tripled, outperforming  Imperial
Tobacco Group Plc , which doubled. Adams helped BAT expand in
developing countries and raised prices in western Europe to
combat declining consumption due to smoking bans and taxes.  
 “The biggest thing Adams accomplished is the shift from
wanting to be the biggest tobacco company to wanting to become
the most profitable company,” said  Thane Duff , an  analyst  at
Investec Ltd. in Sandton, South Africa with a “buy” rating.
“We would hope that it would be a fairly smooth transition, but
any change, especially with a CEO as successful as Paul, raises
questions as to how successful the successor will be.”  
 Imperial Tobacco, BAT’s main competitor in the U.K., also
changed senior management this year with  Gareth Davis  retiring
as CEO and being succeeded by  Alison Cooper . Cooper had been the
Bristol, England-based company’s chief operating officer.  
 Wave of Takeovers  
 Durante and Cooper take over at the helms of their
companies following a wave of takeovers that reduced the number
of major international tobacco companies to four from six. Japan
Tobacco Inc. bought Gallaher Group Plc in 2007 and Imperial
acquired Altadis in 2008.  
 “The future is very much organic growth,” said  Chas Manso , an analyst at Evolution Securities in London with a
“buy” recomendation on BAT. “The way they’re driving profit
growth at the moment is pricing.”  
 Tobacco companies soon may face new regulatory challenges
including Australia’s plan to become the first country to
require cigarettes be sold in plain packages without company
logos and brand imagery. The U.K. plans to start implementing a
measure that will require stores to keep cigarettes hidden from
October 2011. The U.K.’s new government could possibly
reconsider that move, Manso said.  
 BAT  shares  fell 14.5 pence, or 0.7 percent, to 2,138.5
pence as of 9:05 a.m. in London. They’re up 6.1 percent this
year, giving the company a market value of 42.7 billion pounds.  
 Dual National  
 Durante, a dual Brazilian and Italian national, became
chief operating officer of BAT in 2008 and has worked there
since 1981. He formerly led Souza Cruz SA, BAT’s Brazilian unit,
and also headed BAT’s African and Middle Eastern businesses.  
 Durante will be succeeded as chief operating officer by
 John Daly , the cigarette maker said. Finance Director  Ben Stevens  will take on the additional role of chief information
officer, the company also said.  
 “This is the right time to make a change, both for me and
for the company,” said 57-year-old Adams, who has worked at BAT
since 1991 and became CEO at the beginning of 2004.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Mulier  in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        