-- Bayer, Sirtex Medical to Start Advanced Trial of Liver Cancer Treatments
-- Simeon Bennett
-- 2010-06-24T06:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/bayer-sirtex-medical-to-start-advanced-trial-of-liver-cancer-treatments.html

          
          
             Bayer AG ’s Nexavar treatment for
advanced liver cancer will be tested against a radiotherapy made
by  Sirtex Medical Ltd.  in a final-stage study of patients in the
Asia-Pacific region.  
 A total of 360 patients with inoperable liver cancer in 13
countries will receive either Nexavar or Sydney-based Sirtex’s
SIR-Spheres, Singapore’s National Cancer Centre, the trial
organizer, said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 “We hope to conclude which therapy is more beneficial to
patients in terms of better survival, tumor shrinkage and
quality of life,” Pierce Chow, who will lead the study, said in
the statement. “This therapy will then serve as first line and
the other as second-line treatment.”  
 About 80 percent of liver cancer cases occur in the Asia-
Pacific region, and most people are diagnosed too late for
surgery, according to the  World Health Organization . The cancer
kills about 610,000 people worldwide each year, making it the
fourth most-deadly tumor, the United Nations agency said.  
 A previous trial that combined the two treatments extended
patients’ lives by almost a year, a result that was better than
either product on its own, according to the statement. The
results were first presented at the  American Society of Clinical
Oncology ’s conference in Chicago last month.  
 Liver cancer is caused mainly by the hepatitis B and C
viruses, which are transmitted through blood or sexual contact
and attack the organ, according to the U.S. National Cancer
Institute. Left untreated, patients with advanced liver cancer
have a median survival of about three months, the Singapore
Cancer Centre said in the statement.  
 Microscopic Beads  
 SIR-Spheres  are injectable microscopic polymer beads
designed to shrink tumors by carrying a radiotherapy drug
directly to them, avoiding the damage to healthy tissue that’s
caused by conventional radiotherapy.  
 Bayer, of Leverkusen, Germany, co-markets Nexavar with New
York-based Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc.  
 Sirtex  fell  4.3 percent to A$5.08 in Australian trading.
The stock has lost 33 percent this year after surging more than
fourfold in 2009.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simeon Bennett  in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        