-- Behavioral Economists Establish a Beachhead Within Obama Administration
-- Mike Dorning
-- 2010-06-24T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/behavioral-economists-sway-obama-policy-on-health-care-financial-overhaul.html

          
          
             Peter R. Orszag , the White House
budget director, plans to resign this summer, the first of
President  Barack Obama ’s Cabinet to do so. He leaves behind an
indelible mark on two of the President’s signature issues: the
$862 billion economic stimulus plan and the $940 billion health-
care reform law, both of which he had a major hand in drafting.  
 In another, less visible arena, Orszag’s imprint could be
just as big. He was one of the Administration’s most prominent
devotees of behavioral economics -- the study of what drives
consumers to part with their money as they pick one product,
retailer, or provider over another. If you give consumers better
information and subtly push them in the right direction, the
thinking goes, they can be coaxed, not commanded, into buying
healthier foods, consuming less energy, and taking out more
affordable  mortgages , Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its June
28 issue.  
 At the Office of Management & Budget, Orszag, 41, created a
team of like-minded adherents, including  Cass R. Sunstein ,
Obama’s regulatory czar and the co-author of Nudge, a
behavioralist manifesto. They have quietly established a
beachhead, influencing major sections of the health-care reform
law and the financial-regulation overhaul Congress is about to
complete. Their handiwork can be seen in proposed rules ranging
from mine safety to retirement savings, tire durability, and
food labels.  
 Ideas Seeded  
 Despite criticism from conservatives like  Glenn Beck  of Fox
News, and even some apprehension from the political and
communications teams at the White House, the behavioralists
could be influencing regulations long after Orszag leaves. Their
ideas have been seeded in numerous initiatives, just as the
regulatory state is poised for a dramatic comeback following
decades of retrenchment. Other promoters include  Michael S. Barr , the Assistant Treasury Secretary for Financial
Institutions, who helped draft Obama’s Wall Street reforms.
National Economic Council Director  Lawrence Summers  and economic
adviser  Austan Goolsbee  are sympathetic, though they don’t
consider themselves behavioral economists.  
 Even before Obama was sworn in, his advisers spoke
excitedly about plans to reregulate business, in part by
adapting the emerging theories of behavioral economics. Then
came the ridicule. Republican lawmakers said Obama was creating
a nanny state by manipulating American lifestyles with voodoo
economics. Fox’s Beck launched a crusade against Sunstein,
calling him “the most dangerous man in America.”  
 Real-World Experience  
 The behavioral adherents lowered their profile. White House
advisers made sure of it by rarely allowing them to speak on the
record. They’ve managed to be influential nonetheless. To avoid
a partisan fight, Obama’s advisers are urging that regulatory
proposals not be based on abstract academic theory. Instead,
they say, new rules should stress real-world experience and
scientific data. The biggest bet will be in health care.  
 The reform law’s premise is that young, uninsured workers
can be persuaded to enroll in insurance plans even though it
would be cheaper to flout the law and pay a fine as low as $95
in the first year. The behavioralists believe they can use
salesmanship and social pressure to make the law’s grand bargain
work, in which insurers cover everyone and, in return, millions
of new, low-cost customers pay premiums to subsidize the sick.
In Massachusetts, a similar insurance mandate gained 97 percent
compliance with an aggressive enrollment campaign that included
promotions by the Boston Red Sox.  
 Already, Obama has adopted behavioralist ideas to encourage
more businesses to enroll employees automatically in 401(k)
plans and to simplify college financial-aid forms. A little-
noticed March ruling from Sunstein on a proposed set of tire
durability standards is also instructive. The standards were
fine, Sunstein concluded, but he demanded more work on labels
“to promote easy comparison shopping.”  
 Neoclassical View  
 Behavioral economics research stresses the importance of
the clarity and salience of disclosures in shaping consumer
behavior; the old-fashioned, neoclassical view is that consumers
will make use of disclosed information if it’s important to
them.  
 White House advisers have clashed with the food industry in
pressing for clear, front-of-package nutrition labeling such as
rankings on a scale of one to three stars to show whether a
product is healthy or not. A provision in the health reform law
to require nutrition information on chain restaurant menus was a
brainchild of behavioral economists. Health-care adviser  Ezekiel J. Emanuel , housed within OMB, is scouring academic and
marketing research to figure out how to assure that consumers
focus on nutrition information as readily as they do prices.  
 Mine Disaster  
 “Where’s it likely to impact people, and what’s most
likely to do it?” Emanuel asks. The thinking has even entered
the White House’s response to the Massey Energy mine disaster:
Among the ideas under consideration is a name-and-shame website
that would clearly compare individual mine safety records.  
 The consumer financial protection agency in the Wall Street
reforms is another vehicle.  
 “Behavioral economics is an impetus for creating the
agency,” says Harvard economics professor  David Laibson .  
 The Treasury Department document laying out the
Administration’s vision for the agency says it’s supposed to
assure communications with customers are not just truthful but
“balanced,” and that costs, penalties, and risks are “clear
and conspicuous.”  
 Generations of college economics students have been taught
that consumers are rational creatures who make financial
decisions by weighing price against usefulness. The alternative
view, seeping into the Obama Administration, argues it’s not
just about money. Social pressure and the way choices are
presented can be just as important. It’s a new role for
government: Pennsylvania Avenue as counterweight to Madison
Avenue.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Dorning  in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Peter Orszag  
                       
                         
                           Alex Wong/Getty Images 
                         
                         White House Budget Director Peter Orszag plans to resign this summer. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     White House Budget Director Peter Orszag plans to resign this summer. Photographer: Alex Wong/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
