-- Betting Who's Right on Housing: Baker-Whitney vs Maki-Harris
-- Kathleen M. Howley
-- 2010-06-24T14:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/betting-who-s-right-in-house-price-debate-baker-whitney-vs-maki-harris.html

          
          
             Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at
Barclays Capital, says the worst is over for the U.S. housing
sector.  Dean Baker , co-director of the Center for Economic and
Policy Research, expects another painful decline.  
 They reflect an almost even split among forecasters on the
outlook for residential real estate, and whichever side turns
out to be right will have made a call on more than just  home
prices . Housing will play a crucial role in the direction of the
nation’s economy and global financial markets, just as it
triggered a two-year recession that erased more than 8 million
U.S. jobs and $37 trillion from  world stock markets .  
 “There is real destruction when housing demand declines
because to most American families a home is their most important
asset -- a very significant part of their wealth and retirement
savings,”  Joseph Stiglitz , an economics professor at Columbia
University in New York and a Nobel Prize winner, said in a
telephone interview. “When they feel insecure about its value
there obviously is a very big impact on their quality of life.”  
 Two reports this week showed that home sales reversed
course in May after getting a bump higher from government
stimulus programs including a buyer tax credit. New-home sales
fell 33 percent to a record low annual pace of 300,000, the
Commerce Department said yesterday. Purchases of  previously
owned homes  unexpectedly dropped 2.2 percent, the National
Association of Realtors said June 22.  
 Case for Bears  
 The May home-sales declines lend at least temporary
credence to housing bears like Baker, a University of Michigan
Ph.D and author of “False Profits: Recovering From the Bubble
Economy” (PolipointPress, 2010). Baker, who is based in
Washington, estimates that home prices will fall 12 percent this
year, wiping out a 9.1 percent gain in the median price over the
past three months, as gauged by the National Association of
Realtors.  
 Meredith Whitney , founder of Meredith Whitney Advisory
Group in New York, told CNBC this week that another housing
recession is likely.  
 “We think the consumer is going to have a tough time in
the second half,” she said in a June 22 interview with
Bloomberg News. “We think the second quarter is going to be
very tough for other players in the capital markets and we
remain cautious on the banks at large.”  
 Also in the bears’ camp:  Joshua Shapiro , chief U.S.
economist for MFR Inc. in New York, who is calling for a 10
percent decline in prices; and  Nariman Behravesh , chief
economist of IHS Global Insight in Lexington, Massachusetts, who
expects a loss of 7 percent.  
 Range of Estimates  
 Barclays’s Maki, ranked the most-accurate forecaster of
gross domestic product in a Bloomberg News survey in December,
estimates a 0.2 percent increase in home values this year.  Maury Harris , chief economist of UBS Securities in New York, says
there will be no change and  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S.
economist at Deutsche Bank Securities in New York, predicts a
gain of 2.5 percent.  
 “It’s not unusual to have disagreement about the
outlook,” Maki said in an interview. “Often these views come
down to how one views the broader recovery.”  
 About half of 106 U.S. forecasters in a study published
yesterday by  MacroMarkets LLC  expect price declines in 2010 and
half anticipate either little-changed or increasing values. The
estimates in the study range from Baker’s 12 percent drop to the
3.4 percent gain forecast by Bill Watkins, executive director of
the Center for Economic Research and Forecasting at California
Lutheran University in Thousand Oaks, California.  
 “Crystal-ball Gazing’  
 “To some extent economists are engaging in crystal-ball
gazing, but it’s important to put down markers,” said  Terry Loebs , managing director of MacroMarkets, a Madison, New Jersey-
based company that creates securities that allow investors bet
on housing. “The width of that spread is a byproduct of
uncertainty in the market.”  
 Stock and bond markets began to slide and the economy
tumbled into recession at the end of 2007 amid mounting  defaults 
on subprime mortgages. Banks, brokers and insurers worldwide
reported $1.8 trillion in losses and cut almost 350,000 jobs,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The U.S. government
pumped $460 billion into financial firms to prevent a collapse
of the banking system.  
 The median U.S. home price slid 29 percent to an almost
eight-year low of $164,600 in February from a peak of $230,300
in July 2006, according to data from the National Association of
Realtors in Chicago. More than a fifth of U.S. mortgage holders
owed more than their homes were worth in the first quarter,
Seattle-based Zillow.com said last month.  
 Fed Holds Steady  
 Lower real estate prices increase foreclosures and deflate
the profits of banks burdened with seized properties. Federal
Reserve policy makers yesterday held the  benchmark interest rate 
in a range of zero to 0.25 percent, saying in a statement that
lower home values are impeding consumer spending that accounts
for 70 percent of the U.S. economy.  
 “Household spending is increasing but remains constrained
by high unemployment, modest income growth, lower housing wealth
and tight credit,” the policy makers said in the statement.
“The pace of economic recovery is likely to be moderate for a
time.”  
 Mortgage defaults will push prices lower by adding to the
 inventory of homes for sale , MFR’s Shapiro said. A record 4.6
percent of U.S. home loans were in  foreclosure  in the first
quarter, according to a report last month by the Mortgage
Bankers Association in Washington. The combined share of
foreclosures and mortgage delinquencies was 14 percent, or about
one in every seven U.S. mortgages.  
 ‘Enormous Looming Overhang’  
 “We think prices have to come down further because you have
an enormous looming overhang of supply,” Shapiro said in an
interview. “You can’t say things have bottomed.”  
 The government began phasing out housing stimulus programs
in March, when the Federal Reserve ended its purchases of $1.25
trillion of mortgage-backed securities. The buying kept the
average  U.S. 30-year fixed-mortgage rate  in the range of 4.93
percent to 5.14 percent in the first three months of the year.
The rate fell this week to a record low of 4.69 percent, Freddie
Mac, a mortgage-finance company in McLean, Virginia, said today.  
 The tax credit of as much as $8,000 required buyers to have
a signed contract by April 30 and close on a property by July 1.  
 “One reason the estimates on prices are so wide is that no
one is sure what impact government intervention in the
marketplace will have,” said MacroMarkets’ Loebs. “We haven’t
seen a market like this before.”  
 High Unemployment  
 Another cause for the debate on the future of the housing
sector is economists’ varying forecasts on how fast the economy
will recover the jobs lost since the recession began in December
2007, the worst employment slump since World War II.  
 While the economy has expanded payrolls for five
consecutive months this year, the  unemployment rate  will take
time to drop. The jobless rate will average more than 9 percent
into next year, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists taken from June 2 to June 8. It reached a 26-year
high of 10.1 percent in October.  
 The U.S. economy probably will expand 3.2 percent this
year, following a 2.4 percent loss in 2009, according to the
median estimate of 67 economists in a Bloomberg poll. Growth
probably will dip to 3 percent in the third quarter from 3.3
percent in the three months ending June 30, according to the
survey.  
 ‘Absolutely Zilch’  
 “Housing is contributing absolutely zilch to economic
growth,” said  William Wheaton , an economics professor at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge,
Massachusetts. “It’s not that people want houses to be
expensive. They want the housing sector to start pulling up the
economy as it has done after past recessions, and that’s not
going to happen until prices rise.”  
 When that price gain happens, it will have to be
substantial to make up for losses in home values, said
Columbia’s Stiglitz.  
 “Even a 3 to 4 percent increase in value won’t help people
who have seen their homes decline 20, or 30 or 50 percent,”
Stiglitz said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kathleen M. Howley  in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Managing Director and Chief U.S. Economist at Barclays Capital Dean Maki speaks during a summit in New York. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Michael Materasso, senior portfolio manager and co-chairman of the fixed-income policy committee at Franklin Templeton, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the outlook for the U.S. economy and housing market.
     The U.S. real estate market threatens to undercut the Obama administration’s stimulus-driven economic recovery as home sales resume their record slide following the end of the federal homebuyer tax credit. Materasso, speaking from New York, also discusses Federal Reserve monetary policy and U.S. Treasuries. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
