-- BHP, Rio Win Battle Over Tax That `Killed' Australian PM
-- Elisabeth Behrmann
-- 2010-06-25T07:27:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/bhp-rio-win-battle-over-the-tax-that-killed-prime-minister-kevin-rudd.html

          
          
             BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto
Group financed a seven-week advertising campaign to end a mining
tax in Australia. Instead, they got a new prime minister.  
 The ruling Labor party yesterday dumped  Kevin Rudd , the
architect of the tax, for  Julia Gillard , who opened the door to
talks on the proposed 40 percent tax that Morgan Stanley
estimates would have taken A$85 billion ($74 billion) from the
mining industry during the next decade.  
 “It’s amazing that one policy killed the prime minister,”
 Jason Teh , who helps manage $2.6 billion at Investors Mutual in
Sydney. “The mining tax was a big thorn in the side for Rudd.
I’m sure Gillard knows that and she will try to negotiate a
better outcome to make herself look popular.”  
 Compromise may encourage producers to proceed with projects
worth at least $21 billion that were stalled by Xstrata Plc and
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. By dropping the tax the government
will need to cut spending to meet its goal of getting into
budget surplus by 2013.  
 Gillard immediately ended the government’s A$38.5 million
television and newspaper campaign backing the levy. BHP, the
world’s biggest mining company, and Rio responded by suspending
the advertising campaign against the tax, saying they are
encouraged by Gillard’s invitation to talks.  
 “This looks to me like a circuit-breaker,”  Owen Hegarty ,
vice-chairman of G-Resources Ltd. and a director at Fortescue,
Australia’s third-largest iron ore exporter, said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s Melbourne bureau. “The unpopularity of
the previous prime minister was to do with introducing, slam-
dunking, this penal resource super profit tax.”  
 Highest Rate  
 BHP dropped 2.1 percent to A$38.80 at the 4:10 p.m. Sydney
time close on the Australian stock exchange. Rio fell 3 percent,
 Fortescue  slid 4 percent and Macarthur Coal Ltd. dropped 2
percent. The new leadership is more likely to alter than scrap
the tax, Credit Suisse Group AG said today in a report, citing
the influence of pro-levy unions.  
 “My priority is to deal with the mining tax, it has caused
uncertainty,” Gillard, who has undertaken to call an election
in coming months, told reporters today in Canberra. “I want to
genuinely negotiate.”  
 She also met with Treasurer  Wayne Swan , who has become her
deputy, and Minister for Resources and Energy  Martin Ferguson 
today to discuss talks with mining companies. Gillard, 48, said
yesterday the parties need to reach a consensus on the tax.  
 Mining Row  
 “There is some prospect that she’ll drop the tax, which
would effectively extinguish the row with miners,” said  Rob Henderson , markets chief economist at National Australia Bank
Ltd., the nation’s biggest corporate lender. “Or she may defer
the tax until after the election with much greater
consultation.”  
 Rudd, 52, stood down after refusing to relent on the tax,
estimated to raise A$12 billion in the first two years from 2012,
in the face of sliding support in the polls and mounting
opposition within his own party.  
 “Mining is our strongest industry and it’s just been
kicked in the guts,” said  David Flanagan , chief executive
officer of  Atlas Iron Ltd. , which is developing the A$3 billion
Ridley iron ore project. “We are not going to get our mojo back
until the government is prepared to negotiate all aspects of the
tax.”  
 Under the Rudd proposal, miners will pay a 40 percent tax
on all profits above a 6 percent return on investment on their
projects in Australia, the world’s biggest shipper of iron ore
and coal. The tax would give the nation the world’s highest tax
rate for mining companies, according to the Minerals Council of
Australia.  
 ‘Positive Outcome’  
 Miners want the government to exclude existing projects,
reconsider the trigger level and vary the rate for different
minerals. Possible changes needed to make the tax work include
an increase in the rate of return hurdle to a minimum of 10
percent and preferably 15 percent, as well as a reduction in the
headline rate to 20 percent from 40 percent, Morgan Stanley said
June 16.  
 “Gillard’s appointment is a positive outcome because the
tax was too high at 40 percent,”  Khiem Do , Hong Kong-based head
of multi-asset strategy at Baring Asset Management (Asia) Ltd.,
which oversees about $10 billion, said in an interview with
Bloomberg television. “Gillard will water down the tax, maybe
to even lower than 20 percent.”  
 Gillard, who draws support from the Labor Party’s left wing
faction, signaled the government won’t scrap the tax, saying
“Australians are entitled to a fairer share of our inheritance,
the mineral wealth that lies in our grounds.”  
 Felling Rudd  
 Morgan Stanley strategist  Gerard Minack  said Gillard was
still likely to introduce a tax on resources profits after a
negotiation process with the industry, given her close
connection to Rudd’s policy decisions. “We will still get a
super profits tax on the mining sector,” said Minack. “You
can’t assume that a change in prime minister means that the tax
gets dropped.”  
 Support for Rudd began to slide after he shelved the
government’s carbon-trading plans in April, a key campaign
pledge when he won office in November 2007. His popularity
dropped further after the mining tax was announced May 2,
retreating to 41 percent from 60 percent two months earlier, a
Nielsen survey published June 7 showed.  
 “It was without a doubt the mining tax that felled Rudd -
that people didn’t want it,” said  Clive Palmer , Australia’s
third-richest mining magnate with a A$3.92 billion fortune,
according to BRW magazine. “The real issue is whether or not
you should have a tax. That’s what we need to discuss, not the
terms and conditions and how it’s supposed to be implemented.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net 
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Former Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd in Canberra on Thursday. Photographer: Scott Barbour/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Colin Whitehead, equity analyst at Fat Prophets, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the potential implications of Julia Gillard's appointment as Australian prime minister for the government's proposed mining profits tax.
     Gillard, who was sworn in yesterday after ousting Kevin Rudd, said she is willing to negotiate on the tax with mining companies. Whitehead, speaking from Sydney, also discusses the outlook for Australian mining stocks and the global economy.  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Jonathan Barratt, managing director at Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney, talks with Bloomberg's Maryam Nemazee about Julia Gillard's appointment today as Australian prime minister and its potential implications for the government's proposed tax on mining profits and for resources stocks.
     Gillard became Australia’s first female prime minister, ousting Kevin Rudd as Labor Party leader, after his plans to boost taxes on the mining industry deepened a slump in opinion polls. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Peter Rudd, director of mining and resources at Balnave Capital, talks with Bloomberg's Judith Bogner about Julia Gillard's appointment today as Australian prime minister and its potential implications for the government's proposed tax on mining profits.
     Gillard, who was sworn in as leader after ousting Kevin Rudd, said she is willing to negotiate on the proposed tax with mining companies. BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group led gains in Australian miners after Gillard made the comments. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard pauses during a press conference in Canberra. Photographer: Scott Barbour/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
