-- BHP, Rio Shares Slide in London on Concern Gillard Will Stick to Mines Tax
-- Jesse Riseborough
-- 2010-06-24T16:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/bhp-rio-shares-slide-in-london-on-concern-gillard-will-stick-to-mines-tax.html

          
          
             BHP Billiton Ltd.  and  Rio Tinto
Group  slid in London trading on speculation Australia’s incoming
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  will pursue a new mining tax, even
after she pledged to consult companies on the plan.  
 BHP , the world’s biggest mining company, dropped 1.6
percent to 1,920 pence and  Rio  declined 3.2 percent to 3,282
pence. The stocks earlier rose in Sydney after Gillard agreed to
talks on the proposed levy.  
 “It remains highly likely that a mining tax will be
introduced,”  Olivia Ker , a London-based mining analyst at UBS
AG, said today in a report. “Given the proposed new
negotiation, the resolution of details may now be further in the
future, opening up a longer period of uncertainty.”  
 Gillard today ousted  Kevin Rudd  as Labor Party leader after
his plans to boost taxes on the mining industry deepened a slump
in opinion polls. The levy, which would raise A$12 billion
($10.5 billion) in its first two years, sparked a storm of
protests from the world’s largest mineral producers, who
threatened to scrap projects and curtail investment.  
 “We still don’t have absolute clarity on what the Labor
government position is going to be,”  Richard Knights , an
analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. in London, said today by phone.
“The market was hoping that she might come out and say, ‘Look,
we oppose the tax,’ or maybe something more concrete.”  
 ‘Cautiously Encouraged’  
 BHP, based in Melbourne, said it’s encouraged by Gillard’s
appointment and has asked publicity agencies to suspend all of
its advertisements against the proposed tax, according to a
statement. Rio, the world’s third-largest mining company, said
it’s “cautiously encouraged” by Gillard’s comments on the tax.  
 Rudd had faced criticism from mining companies including
BHP, London-based Rio and  Xstrata Plc  over the plan to impose a
40 percent levy on mining profits from 2012.  
 Xstrata welcomed Gillard’s willingness to engage in talks,
and said they must be concluded as rapidly as possible to avoid
further damage to the mining industry in Australia, according to
a company spokesperson who declined to be identified.  
 Xstrata  fell 3.2 percent to 985.3 pence in London, sliding
for a third day.  
 BHP climbed 1.3 percent to A$39.65 at the close of trade in
Sydney. Rio gained 1.7 percent, Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. rose
2.5 percent and Macarthur Coal Ltd. advanced 6.4 percent.  
 Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. , which bought Australia’s Felix
Resources Ltd. last year, closed up 0.9 percent at HK$17.34 in
Hong Kong.  Citic Pacific Ltd. , a Chinese steelmaker that owns an
iron-ore project in Australia, advanced 0.7 percent to HK$15.28.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        