-- BlackRock Faces SEC Hurdle With ETFs Seeking Secrecy to Rival Mutual Funds
-- Christopher Condon
-- 2010-06-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/blackrock-faces-sec-hurdle-with-etfs-seeking-secrecy-to-rival-mutual-funds.html

          
          
             Plans by  BlackRock Inc . and Vanguard
Group Inc. for a new type of exchange-traded fund to challenge
actively managed mutual funds may run into opposition from the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 The firms are seeking approval for actively run ETFs --
where managers select holdings -- that would keep some of their
assets undisclosed, allowing them to compete better for the $7.5
trillion managed by stock and bond pickers. Unlike mutual funds,
which reveal holdings every quarter, ETFs are currently required
to disclose assets daily, inviting rivals to copy trades and
making it harder for firms to enlist top managers, said  Thomas Graves , an analyst with Standard & Poor’s in New York.  
 “This is more than simply working out the details of a
complex product,” said  Andrew Donohue , head of the SEC’s
investment-management arm, in an interview from Washington.
“I’m concerned that the lack of transparency will disrupt the
process that keeps a fund’s per-share net asset value and share
price closely aligned.”  
 Since they were introduced in 1993, ETFs in the U.S. have
taken almost half of the $1.75 trillion market for so-called
passive products, which replicate the composition of a stock or
bond index and don’t depend on managers to pick assets. The
products, attractive for investors because they’re cheaper and
easier to trade, hold less than 1 percent of the market for
actively managed funds, which is more than four times as big.  
 ‘High-Profile Managers’  
 New York-based BlackRock, with $3.36 trillion under
management, became the world’s largest asset manager and the
biggest manager of exchange-traded funds with the acquisition of
Barclays Global Investors on Dec. 1. Vanguard, based in Valley
Forge, Pennsylvania, is the third-biggest ETF provider in the
U.S., after State Street Corp. Claymore Advisors, a unit of
Chicago-based Guggenheim Partners LLC, and ETF Consultants LLC
in Summit, New Jersey, also have applications pending for the
new ETFs.  
 “If they’re not allowed to have limited or no
transparency, that will keep high-profile fund managers from
entering the ETF universe and slow down the potential growth
rate,” said S&P’s Graves.  
 Christine Hudacko , a spokeswoman for BlackRock’s iShares
ETF unit in San Francisco, and Rebecca Katz, a Vanguard
spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Gary Gastineau , managing
director at ETF Consultants, said he’s optimistic the SEC will
eventually approve the funds.  
 Unlike mutual funds, ETFs are listed on an exchange, giving
investors the ability to buy or sell them throughout the day
like stocks. They’re also cheaper, because they don’t have to
keep detailed accounting records for every shareholder.  
 Cost Savings  
 The average expense ratio for U.S. ETFs in 2009 was 0.57
percent of assets, compared with 0.99 percent for index mutual
funds and 1.41 percent for stock mutual funds, data from
Chicago-based Morningstar Inc. show.  
 While those advantages helped ETFs attract assets faster
than mutual funds, their growth was driven mainly by index
products. In the year ended April 30, U.S. ETF assets rose 57
percent, compared with 41 percent for stock and bond mutual
funds, according to the Investment Company Institute, a
Washington-based trade group.  
 Actively run ETFs have largely failed to benefit from those
flows. Pacific Investment Management Co. in Newport Beach,
California, and six other providers have started 26 such ETFs,
according to IndexUniverse.com, a Decatur, Georgia-based website
that tracks the industry. The funds attracted a combined $2.38
billion as of June 18, about a quarter of 1 percent of U.S. ETF
assets.  
 ‘Huge Opportunity’  
 Allowing funds to disclose less may help firms attract more
assets if it clears the path for star mutual-fund managers to
offer ETF versions of their funds, said Tony Baker, a managing
director at stock-exchange operator  NYSE Euronext .  
 “This is a potentially groundbreaking product,”  William Belden , Claymore’s managing director for ETFs, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s a huge opportunity.”  
 The concerns of the SEC relate to the mechanism that allows
ETFs to adjust their prices with their net asset value, or NAV,
said Donohue.  
 When an ETF’s price rises above the NAV of its underlying
securities, institutional market makers swap blocks of those
holdings, known as creation units, for shares of the fund. The
shares are priced at NAV, not market value. The market maker
then earns an arbitrage profit when it sells the ETF shares at
market value, and the transactions help push the share price and
NAV back together. The process is reversed if the ETF trades at
a discount to NAV.  
 Pimco’s Strategy  
 For the process to work, the ETF must tell market makers
what securities to include in the creation unit, inviting two
potential problems for funds. For one, managers can take days to
move into or out of large positions. If other investors detect
that movement, they can jump ahead of the manager and benefit
from resulting price changes, a tactic known as front-running.  
 Followers can also mimic a fund’s trades without paying the
management fee. Many mutual funds disclose their holdings only
when required, quarterly after a 30-day lag, to prevent others
from copying their trades.  
 Those concerns didn’t stop Pimco from opening three
actively managed fixed-income ETFs in the last eight months. Don
Suskind, head of ETF products, said the funds won’t draw front-
running because they operate in such liquid markets that
managers can move into and out of positions within a day. The
funds also often buy directly from the issuer, taking most or
all of the bonds sold, so it’s difficult to match the holdings
at the same price, he said.  
 Front-Running  
 AdvisorShares Investments LLC, a Bethesda, Maryland, firm
that helps smaller fund companies create and sell actively
managed ETFs, opened the fully transparent $22 million  Dent
Tactical ETF  in September with financial forecaster  Harry Dent 
and may start two more actively managed ETFs this year.  
 Without knowing when a manager will stop buying or selling,
a front-running investor can lose money when the strategy is
ill-timed, said Noah Hamman, AdvisorShares’ chief executive
officer. Copying trades isn’t worth the savings in fees because
investors would have to track the fund’s holdings daily, with no
guarantee of getting the same price, he said.  
 Still, top-performing fund managers may be reluctant to
disclose their investments daily.  
 “If I told my fund managers they’d have to disclose all of
their portfolio holdings every day, I wouldn’t have many fund
managers left,”  Bridget Macaskill , president and chief
executive officer of New York-based money manager First Eagle
Investment Management LLC, said May 6 at a conference in
Washington organized by the ICI.  
 ‘Proxy Portfolio’  
 Vanguard in 2007 proposed a fund of inflation-protected
Treasuries that would use a “computer-implemented method” to
produce a creation unit matching the yields and other
characteristics of its holdings while revealing only 40 percent
to 75 percent of the securities, according to a  patent
application  filed by the company.  
 The fund, like the other applicants, is awaiting SEC
action.  
 Claymore, in its April 2008 submission to the SEC, proposed
scrapping the creation unit and publishing a “proxy portfolio”
that would reveal some holdings while reproducing the full
lineup’s “risk characteristics,” Belden said. Market makers,
guided by the proxy portfolio, would buy or sell blocks of ETF
shares mostly in cash, he said.  
 ETF Consultants has proposed a fund that also uses a
mechanism to obscure its full holdings.  Gastineau  said the SEC
may come around, as it did with the first U.S. registered ETF,
State Street’s  SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust .  
 ‘Spider’  
 “It took the SEC four years to approve the ‘Spider’
because they weren’t convinced that it would work,” Gastineau
said. Seventeen years later, the ETF, which tracks the U.S.
stock-market benchmark, is the largest exchange-traded fund,
with $78.3 billion in assets.  
 Others say the agency may never assent.  
 “They have no incentive to approve them and already have
some concerns,” said  Dave Nadig , director of research for Index
Publication LLC, publisher of the Journal of Indexes, said in an
interview.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission director of the Division of Investment Management Andrew Donohue. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
