-- Blockbuster Adds Dissident to Board, Works With Bondholders on Debt Cuts
-- Ronald Grover
-- 2010-06-24T20:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/blockbuster-adds-dissident-to-board-as-video-chain-seeks-debt-refinancing.html

          
          
             Blockbuster Inc. , the money-losing
video-rental chain, agreed to add dissident shareholder Gregory
S. Meyer as a director and said it’s working with bondholders to
restructure its debt.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Jim Keyes  told investors at the
annual meeting in Dallas that time is “of the essence” in the
efforts to refinance. Blockbuster, with $900 million in debt,
faces an $18.5 million July 1 interest payment on $630 million
of 11.75 percent bonds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The company has lost more than $1 billion in the past three
years amid store closings, declining sales and competition from
newer competitors in the DVD arena, including  Netflix Inc.  and
 Coinstar Inc. ’s Redbox video-rental kiosks. Blockbuster, the
largest U.S. video retailer, is trying to reconfigure its
finances and operations at the same time, Keyes said.  
 Blockbuster fell less than 1 percent to 28.5 cents at
4:04 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The
company had a market value of about $59 million.  
 Meyer, who founded the DVDXpress company in 2001 that
rented DVDs through kiosks, had sought to replace incumbent  Gary Fernandes . The company said today all nominees were elected.  
 Blockbuster also said investors overwhelmingly approved
combining the Class A and Class B common shares into a single
stock. They also backed plans for a  reverse split  as part of the
company’s compliance plan with the New York Stock Exchange.  
 The retailer said in March it was seeking to refinance its
debt and could be forced to seek bankruptcy protection.  
 DVD Terms  
 In April, the company won more favorable DVD terms from
 News Corp. ’s Twentieth Century Fox and  Sony Corp. ’s film
studio, part of a drive to cut costs. In exchange for the new
payment terms, the studios obtained a first lien on Blockbuster
Canada Co. chain’s assets. Blockbuster Canada will continue to
operate as usual, the company said.  
 On June 22, the retailer submitted a confidential plan to
boost its market capitalization and keep its New York Stock
Exchange listing, according to regulatory filings. The company
also plans a reverse stock split.  
 Blockbuster’s $630 million of 11.75 percent bonds due in
2014 were quoted at 61 cents on the dollar on June 14, down from
71 cents on May 4, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ronald Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        