-- Bond Sales Diminish as Renault Trims Offering, Swaps Climb: Credit Markets
-- Sapna Maheshwari
-- 2010-06-25T16:23:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/bond-sales-diminish-as-renault-trims-offering-swaps-climb-credit-markets.html

          
          
             Bond sales fell and the cost of
protecting against default on Greek government debt rose to a
record as concern the global economy may slow brought new signs
of stress to credit markets.  
 Company debt offerings globally declined 3.8 percent this
week to $38.6 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Renault SA , France’s second-biggest carmaker, reduced a bond
sale by 20 percent, citing “more difficult” market conditions.
Universal Health Services Inc. cut the amount of loans it’s
seeking to buy Psychiatric Solutions Inc. by 19 percent.  
 Investors are demanding an increasing yield to hold company
bonds rather than government securities as reports showed
European industrial orders rose less than expected in April and
purchases of new U.S. houses fell in May to the lowest level on
record. A weakening home market may drive the U.S. back into
recession, said  Komal Sri-Kumar , who helps manage $115 billion
as chief global strategist at TCW Group Inc.  
 “There’s clearly more talk about a double-dip than there
was before,” said Sri-Kumar, of Los Angeles-based TCW. “A
double-dip happens first in U.S. housing, then it happens in the
European economies, and third, it happens in the overall U.S.
economy. What you have seen this week is the first stage.”  
 Credit-default swaps on Greece rose as much as 13 basis
points to an all-time high of 1,140 basis points today,
signaling a 68.5 percent chance the nation will default in five
years, according to CMA DataVision. The swaps declined to 1,104
as of 12:01 p.m. in New York. Treasury two-year yields touched
0.6329 percent yesterday, the lowest level since November, and
were at 0.65 percent today.  
 Credit-Default Swaps  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, indicators of corporate bond
risk fell today, while the extra yield investors demand to hold
debt in emerging markets rather than benchmark securities held
at the highest in more than a week. U.S. commercial paper
outstanding rose for a third straight week to the highest in
more than a month, the Federal Reserve said yesterday on its
website.  
 “What we’ve seen is a fair amount of volatility, and we do
expect that to continue,” said  Leslie Barbi , a fixed-income
managing director at Guardian Life Insurance Co. of America, who
helps oversee $23 billion in fixed-income assets. “The markets
are nervous about whether the economic growth here is going to
falter or not.”  
 The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or speculate on creditworthiness, fell
3.59 basis points to a mid-price of 115.96 basis points as of
12:17 p.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd. In
London, the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of swaps on 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings declined 3.65 to 126.25, Markit
prices show.  
 Emerging Markets  
 The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  
 In emerging markets, spreads rose 4 basis points to 324
basis points, according to JPMorgan’s Emerging Market Bond
index. The index has climbed from 304 basis points on June 21,
the lowest level in more than a month.  
 Short-Term IOUs  
 The  market  in the U.S. for short-term IOUs climbed $15.4
billion to $1.0987 trillion in the week ended June 23. That’s
the highest since May 12, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Without seasonal adjustment,  debt outstanding 
declined $3.9 billion to $1.05 trillion.  
 The Fed said June 23 it would keep its benchmark interest
rate at a record low for an “extended period” and signaled
that Europe’s debt crisis may harm American growth. Investors
focused more on the central bank’s pessimism rather than its
willingness to keep rates low to spur economic growth, said  Don Ross , global strategist for Titanium Asset Management Corp. in
Cleveland.  
 “We’re beginning to reach the point where bad news is bad
news in risk assets,” said Ross, who helps oversee $9.5
billion. “The fears of double dip are likely to grow.”  
 Renault sold 400 million euros ($493 million) of 5.625
percent, five-year bonds yesterday, 100 million euros less than
it originally sought. The carmaker, based in the Paris suburb of
Boulogne-Billancourt, paid a spread of 370 basis points more
than the benchmark swap rate, according to Bloomberg data. That
compares with 329 basis points on Renault’s existing securities
due 2017, Bloomberg generic data show.  
 “The market is a bit more difficult at the moment,” said
 Gita Roux , a spokeswoman for the company. “Renault had the
arbitrage between volume and price and, as the company is not in
great need of financing right now, it would rather focus on
price than volume.”  
 Universal Health Services  
 Universal Health Services, based in King of Prussia,
Pennsylvania, reduced the amount of loans it’s seeking to $3.35
billion amid a growing pipeline of leveraged-buyout debt that
needs to be sold. The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan
100 Index fell 0.17 cent to 88.88 cents on the dollar, its
second daily decline.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own corporate bonds
instead of government debt rose 1 basis point to 195 basis
points, or 1.95 percentage point, the Bank of America Global
Broad Market Corporate Index shows. Yields averaged 3.996
percent.  
 Korea Development Bank, the state-run lender, raised 27
billion yen ($301 million) from a sale of Samurai bonds -- yen-
denominated notes sold by overseas issuers in Japan. The lender
priced 22.6 billion yen of two-year, 1.48 percent notes to yield
95 basis points more than the yen swap rate and 4.4 billion yen
of three-year, 1.56 percent bonds at a 100 basis-point spread,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Bond Returns  
 U.S. corporate bonds have returned 5.036 percent this year,
compared with 5.031 for Treasuries, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show. Company debt has gained 1.163 percent
this month, as government securities returned 1.052 percent.  
 Sales of corporate bonds in the U.S. fell 18 percent this
week to $16.6 billion, from $20.3 billion in the period ended
June 18, Bloomberg data show. Issuance was below the 2010
average of $19.8 billion for the eighth time in nine weeks,
Bloomberg data show.  
 Spreads on speculative-grade bonds widened 21 basis points
since June 21 to 689 basis points, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s U.S. High Yield Master II index. High-yield,
high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service
and lower than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  
 High-Yield Inflows  
 Still, investors added the most new money to high-yield
bond funds since early March, according to  EPFR  Global. Junk
funds saw net inflows of $1.1 billion in the week ended June 23,
EPFR said in an e-mailed statement. All bond funds monitored by
the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm received a
total of $2.58 billion in net inflows.  
 Purchases of U.S. new homes plunged an unprecedented 33
percent from April to an annual pace of 300,000, the fewest in
data going back to 1963, according to Commerce Department
figures. Demand in prior months was revised down.  
 “Certainly the inflation data, some of the housing data,
doesn’t really lend credence to the economy really taking off,”
said  Dan Sheppard , a New York-based director in fixed-income at
Deutsche Bank AG’s Private Wealth Management unit, where he
helps oversee $12 billion. “We need to see how well the economy
can grow off the stimulus, and right now the jury’s out.”  
 Greece was downgraded to junk last week by Moody’s, which
cited the risk to economic growth from austerity measures tied
to a 110 billion-euro rescue package. Greece has cut spending,
raised taxes and reduced wages to tackle a budget deficit that
swelled to 13.6 percent of gross domestic product last year,
more than four times the European Union limit.  
 Industrial orders in Europe rose 0.9 percent from March,
the EU’s statistics office said. Economists had forecast orders
to increase 1.6 percent, the median of 18 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey showed.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     TCW Group Inc, chief global strategist Komal Sri-Kumar. Photographer: Jonathan Alcorn/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
