-- Boris Becker's Former Wife Wins EU Court Ruling in Harman Trademark Case
-- Stephanie Bodoni
-- 2010-06-24T09:59:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/boris-becker-s-former-wife-wins-eu-court-ruling-in-harman-trademark-case.html

          
          
             Barbara Becker, the former wife of
three-time Wimbledon champion  Boris Becker , won a European Union
court challenge to audio-systems maker  Harman International
Industries Inc. ’s trademark rights to the name Becker.  
 The  European Court of Justice  in Luxembourg ruled that how
well-known a person is should be among the considerations when
checking whether a surname should qualify for EU trademark
protection. It rejected a lower court’s assessment that her full
name would be too similar to Harman’s trademarks “Becker” and
“Becker Online Pro.”  
 Today’s ruling helps clarify how much protection famous
people can get under EU trademark law for names that are already
being used as brands by a company. Barbara Becker applied for an
EU trademark on her name in 2002, two years after Harman, which
makes sound systems for homes and vehicles, filed for its
trademarks.  
 The lower EU court “erred in law in basing its assessment
on the conceptual similarity of the marks,” the EU’s Court of
Justice said. The 2008 decision failed to take “account of
factors specific to the case,” including Barbara Becker’s
status as a well-known person.  
 Calls to Harman, based in Stamford, Connecticut, outside
regular office hours weren’t answered.  
 Today’s decision means that the General Court, the EU’s
second-highest court, will have to re-examine the case. The
lower EU court had ruled that the two trademarks were similar
“visually, phonetically and conceptually.”  
 Unusual Name  
 “Although it is possible that, in a part of the European
Union, surnames have, as a general rule, a more distinctive
character than forenames, it is appropriate, however, to take
account of factors specific to the case,” the nine-page
judgment said today. This includes checking whether the name
Becker is unusual or very common.  
 “Account must also be taken of whether the person who
requests that his first name and surname, taken together, be
registered as a trademark is well known, since that factor may
obviously influence the perception of the mark by the relevant
public,” said a five-judge panel of the court in the judgment.  
 Boris Becker became one of Germany’s most popular
personalities after winning his first Wimbledon title in 1985.
He took the title at the age of 17, making him the youngest
Wimbledon champion in history. He retired from competitive
tennis in 1999 after winning six Grand Slam tournaments,
including two Australian Opens and the 1989 U.S. Open.  
 Boris Becker and his wife separated in 2000 after seven
years of marriage.  
 The case is C-51/09 P Becker v Harman International
Industries.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        