-- BP Reinstalls Cap on Gulf Oil Leak, Intercept Well on Track
-- Jim Polson
-- 2010-06-24T16:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/bp-reinstalls-containment-cap-on-gulf-oil-leak-intercept-well-is-on-track.html

          
          
             BP Plc reinstalled a device on its
Gulf of Mexico well to capture leaking oil after an underwater
accident yesterday, as an intercept well intended to plug the
gusher began homing in on its target.  
 BP said in a statement last night it had “successfully
reinstalled” the cap containment device on the well and resumed
funneling oil and gas to the drillship Discoverer Enterprise on
the surface. Oil diverted to vessels on the surface declined
yesterday by 10,260 barrels, or 38 percent, London-based BP
reported on its website this morning.  
 The company yanked the cap from the seabed well after it
was rammed by a remotely operated vehicle, U.S. Coast Guard
Admiral  Thad Allen , said at a press conference yesterday in
Washington. BP said it found no damage.  
 Drilling to intercept the leaking well and seal it
permanently with mud and cement advanced yesterday, as engineers
began a series of “ranging” tests to guide the drill to its
target, the company said. The so-called relief well has reached
16,000 feet (4,876 meters) below the ocean surface and BP
expects to plug the damaged well at 18,000 feet.  
 “The relief wells are on course,”  Mark Salt , a BP
spokesman, said in a telephone interview yesterday. A rig
drilling a second relief well has paused for tests, Salt said.  
 Shares Fall  
 BP fell 8.25 pence, or 2.5 percent, to 325.25 pence at 4:35
p.m. in London trading, the lowest closing price since November
1996. It has lost half its value since the April 20 blowout of
the well that destroyed the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig,
killed 11 crew members and triggered the biggest oil spill in
U.S. history.  
 Ranging tests determine a bearing and distance to the
target well, with each test taking three to five days, or more,
said  Tad Patzek , chair of petroleum and geosystems engineering
at the University of Texas at Austin.  
 The range tests require drilling for several hundred feet,
withdrawing the drill, lowering instruments down the hole to
locate the leaking well, removing the instruments and drilling a
few hundred feet more, he said in a June 22 interview.  
 “You want to go gently,” Patzek said. “Any abrupt
change in trajectory is a potential for another delay, an
opportunity to begin fishing for something that’s stuck.”  
 Using similar ranging equipment, PTT Exploration &
Production Pcl needed a month to kill its Montara leaking well
in the  Timor Sea  off Australia last year, according to a report
filed with national regulators.  
 Stuck ‘Whipstock’  
 After missing on the first three attempts over 11 days, the
PTT drillers determined they were less than a half meter from
their target when a “whipstock,” a wedge intended to divert
the drill at a sharp angle, became stuck, forcing them to back
up 100 meters to try again, before hitting the well.  
 Once the relief well is at depth, it might take weeks to
seal, Patzek said. “They may have to, essentially, kill the
reservoir around the wellbore. That means, if nothing else, much
larger volumes of mud.”  
 The interruption yesterday was the third time BP has had to
halt oil capture to the Discoverer Enterprise drillship. The two
prior occasions involved fire and equipment problems.  
 The drillship accounted for 62 percent of the 27,090
barrels of oil the company collected from the well on June 22, 
BP  said in a statement on its website. The rest was burned
aboard another rig, the Q4000.  
 Gulf Storms  
 The drillship may need to begin preparing to evacuate
should a hurricane approach the Gulf, the Coast Guard’s Allen
said. The Q4000 and a planned third vessel could stay in place
longer, he said.  
 Government forecasters say the hurricane season that began
June 1 may be the worst since 2005, when storms including
Katrina devastated New Orleans and damaged platforms and
pipelines in the Gulf.  
 Weather forecasters said a tropical storm or even a
hurricane may develop in the Gulf this weekend.  
 A collection of thunderstorms known as a tropical wave has
dropped rain on Cuba, Jamaica and Hispaniola and is expected to
organize into at least a tropical storm by June 27, said  Jim Rouiller , a senior energy meteorologist at Planalytics Inc. in
Berwyn, Pennsylvania. If the storm forms, it will be named Alex.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jessica Resnick-Ault  in New York at 
 jresnickault@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.S. Coast Guard National Incident Commander Thad Allen  
                       
                         
                           Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.S. Coast Guard National Incident Commander Thad Allen arrives at Houma Airport, Louisiana. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.S. Coast Guard National Incident Commander Thad Allen arrives at Houma Airport, Louisiana. Photographer: Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Matt Rogers, president of Commodity Weather Group, talks about the outlook for a hurricane in the Gulf of Mexico and the potential impact on efforts to clean up BP Plc's oil leak.
     Rogers talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
