-- BP's Alaska Liberty Well Subject to New Offshore Safety Rules, U.S. Says
-- Jim Efstathiou Jr.
-- 2010-06-24T19:26:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/bp-s-alaska-liberty-well-subject-to-new-offshore-safety-rules-u-s-says.html

          
          
             BP Plc ’s plans to develop an oil
field five miles off Alaska’s coast from a manmade island must
comply with safety rules for offshore drillers issued after BP’s
Gulf of Mexico oil spill, the U.S. Interior Department said.  
 To tap the Liberty oil field in the Beaufort Sea off
Alaska’s North Slope, BP must provide information on the
possibility of a well blowout along with third-party
verification that equipment used to stop spills works, according
to the department.  
 “In light of the BP spill in the Gulf and safety reforms
we are implementing, we will also be carefully evaluating the
project’s proposal for oil-spill response, blowout prevention
and other safety requirements,”  Kendra Barkoff , a department
spokeswoman, said today in an e-mail.  
 A moratorium on offshore drilling imposed by President
 Barack Obama  in response to the Gulf incident requires companies
working in shallow water to meet new safety requirements.
Notices issued this month require that drillers submit
information on preventing spills to obtain permits to proceed.  
 Liberty is “not covered by the moratorium,” BP spokesman
 Steve Rinehart  said today in an e-mail. “It’s a land-based rig
on a gravel island in shallow water and is not exploration.”  
 The project is moving forward, he said, with plans calling
for the first well to be drilled in the fall.  
 Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  told a hearing of the Senate
Energy Committee today that he has asked for a review of the
Alaska project.  
 Reduced Impact  
 Committee member  Robert Menendez , a Democrat from New
Jersey, cited a New York Times report today saying the project
is exempt from the moratorium because the drilling rig will sit
on a gravel island connected to land by an artificial causeway.  
 “That somehow makes it a quote, onshore project,”
Menendez said. “BP is going to drill under the Arctic Ocean,
and it will do so using a risky drilling technique.”  
 BP in 2005 decided to drill the Liberty field from a gravel
island to reduce the potential effects of using an offshore rig,
according to an exploration plan filed with the U.S. government.
The move means BP must drill up to 44,000 feet horizontally
using a technique called “extended reach.”  
 BP says five of the six planned wells will be the longest
extended-reach wells in the world. The drilling rig required may
be the largest land rig in the world, BP said. It will require
more powerful machinery to turn the drill pipe and circulate
drilling fluid.  
 “The extra length requires bigger and more sophisticated
equipment and drilling mud to keep the hole open throughout the
drilling and completion operations,” BP said an April 2007
development plan filed with the Interior Department. “The
enhanced level of technology required to operate the rig systems
is also a challenge.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- New Orleans Mayor Mitchell Landrieu talks about the U.S. government's moratorium on deepwater drilling. 
     A federal judge denied a request by the government to delay an order that allows drilling to resume. (This is an excerpt of the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Richard Torrenzano, chief executive officer of the Torrenzano Group, talks about BP Plc's management of its public image following the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.
     Torrenzano talks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
