-- BP Demise Would Threaten U.S. Energy Security, Industry
-- Stanley Reed
-- 2010-06-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/bp-s-demise-over-spill-would-threaten-u-s-energy-security-industry-jobs.html

          
          
             Oil spill aside, U.S. energy
security will suffer if BP Plc goes under or is significantly
reduced in size.  
 With public anger off the charts over BP’s role in the Gulf
of Mexico oil disaster, there’s not much sympathy about the
financial burden the London-based company faces from future
legal claims and cleanup costs. BP says it’s considering asset
sales to help cover the cost of a $20 billion escrow fund
President  Barack Obama  demanded the oil producer set up to
handle U.S. claims.  
 The company’s survival may also be in doubt if the
financial hit from the Deepwater Horizon rig explosion
approaches $100 billion, as some analysts suggest is possible.  
 Such a scenario would have implications for U.S. energy
policy at home and abroad -- and mostly bad ones, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its June 28 issue. Obama recognized as
much when he said on June 16 that “BP is a strong and viable
company, and it is in all of our interests that it remain so.”  
 The company’s demise would be disruptive to the American
oil industry, given that BP is the largest oil and gas producer
in the U.S., with about 1 million barrels per day of production.
Some 7,000 of BP’s 23,000 U.S.  employees  work in the Houston
area, many in a suburban office park just off the Katy Freeway.  
 ‘Highly Compensated’  
 From there the company runs its Gulf of Mexico offshore
operations with a phalanx of engineers, geologists, and computer
scientists. “These are highly compensated people,” says J.
 Robinson West , chairman of Washington-based consultants PFC
Energy.  
 Until the Deepwater Horizon accident, BP’s Gulf activities
were viewed by the U.S. government as a big plus for U.S. energy
security interests. Since the mid-1990s, the British company has
been the leader in Gulf exploration, pushing into deeper water
and drilling farther into the earth. Its projects were key to
the 7 percent growth in production the U.S. achieved last year,
reversing an 18-year decline in output.  
 BP’s skill at negotiating access to new energy resources,
especially in strategically important regions, has also served
U.S. interests.  
 The company opened up Azerbaijan, a major producer in the
Caspian Sea region, for oil development. It has developed two
oil and gas fields there, as well as the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan
crude oil pipeline through Turkey that opened in 2004 and offers
a counterweight to Russian dominance in the region.  
 Libya, Iraq  
 In 2007,  BP  signed an agreement with the investment arm of
the Libyan government to explore for gas along an offshore tract
the size of Belgium.  
 BP’s most daring move has been last year’s $20 billion deal
in Iraq to add almost 2 million barrels per day in production to
the country’s prized oil field in Rumaila. That attracted deals
with other companies, greatly improving Iraq’s economic
prospects.  
 “BP was bold in going in first and opening up the way for
the rest of them,” says  Toby Dodge , an Iraq scholar at the
International Institute for Strategic Studies in London.  
 BP is starting to identify the $10 billion or more in
assets it might sell to fund the costs of the Gulf spill, says
Managing Director  Robert Dudley , who has taken over day-to-day
oversight of the cleanup from Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward . “We have to sharpen the portfolio to pace ourselves
for what has happened in the U.S.,” Dudley says.  
 Bankruptcy Risk  
 A person familiar with  BP ’s investment plans says it may
need to raise as much as $50 billion to cover costs related to
the disaster. Oppenheimer & Co. oil analyst  Fadel Gheit  thinks
BP could end up in bankruptcy if costs exceed $100 billion, a
possibility if partners in the stricken well, such as Anadarko
Petroleum Corp., manage to pin full legal responsibility for the
oil spill on the U.K.-based producer.  
 If so, BP may have to part with some prized assets, and
Chinese and Russian oil companies less sympathetic to U.S.
interests could step in as buyers and change the geopolitics of
the oil industry.  
 “Companies will be interested in buying assets in
Azerbaijan, Angola, Brazil, and potentially also Norway,” says
 Gudmund Halle Isfeldt , an analyst at DnB Nor ASA in Oslo,
Norway’s largest bank.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stanley Reed  in London at 
 sreed13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     BP is starting to identify the $10 billion or more in assets it might sell to fund the costs of the Gulf spill, says Managing Director Robert Dudley. Photographer: Michael Fein/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Rachel Ziemba, a senior analyst at Roubini Global Economics LLC, talks about the possibility BP Plc will sell some of its Russian assets as costs related to the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico mount.
     Ziemba speaks with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television's
"Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
