-- Brazil Exports to Benefit From China Yuan Policy Change, Luiz Pereira Says
-- Laura Price
-- 2010-06-24T14:49:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/brazil-exports-to-benefit-from-china-yuan-policy-change-luiz-pereira-says.html

          
          
             Brazilian exports will probably
benefit from China’s move to relax its currency peg to the
dollar, said  Luiz Awazu Pereira , director of international
affairs at Brazil’s central bank.  
 “In terms of the appreciation of our exports and the type
of exports we have, it’s a favorable situation,” Pereira said
today in an interview during “ The Sovereign Debt Briefing ” in
London hosted by  Bloomberg Link . “But we obviously need to
observe the developments with caution and detail.”  
 Brazil exported $10.64 billion of goods to China from
January through May this year, making the Asian nation its
biggest export market with 15 percent of total shipments,
according to the  Ministry of Development, Industry and Foreign
Trade . Soybean, iron-ore and oil products made up for about
82 percent of those exports, according to the ministry’s
website.  
 China’s decision to allow more flexibility in the currency
triggered the biggest appreciation in the yuan in half a decade
this week, and Morgan Stanley economist  Wang Qing  said the
policy change should damp import costs.  
 Shares of  Vale SA , the world’s biggest iron-ore producer,
surged the most in three weeks on June 21 on increasing
confidence that demand for exports will rise.  
 Currency Agreement  
 “We need to see how China will manage its new foreign
exchange regime,” Pereira said. “China is a great partner for
Brazil. Our export sector is largely concentrated in
commodities, products linked to expanding demand in China. These
movements should be favorable to a certain extent.”  
 Brazil is also in talks with China to create an agreement
allowing the two countries to trade using their own currencies,
Pereira said.  
 Any currency accord should be focused on exports of
industrialized products from Brazil, he said. Latin America’s
largest economy already trades in local currency with Argentina
and is in talks with Uruguay and Peru, Pereira said.  
 The yuan climbed 0.19 percent to close at 6.7997 per dollar
in Shanghai. It has gained 0.39 percent this week and touched
6.7958 on June 21, the strongest level since the central bank
unified official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993.  
 Brazil’s real declined 0.2% to 1.7913 per dollar at 10:45
a.m. New York time from 1.7873 yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Price  in London at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        