-- U.K. Banks Will Pass EU Stress Test, Turner Says
-- Lindsay Fortado
-- 2010-06-24T16:09:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/british-banks-will-pass-european-union-s-stress-tests-fsa-s-turner-says.html

          
          
             Adair Turner , chairman of the U.K.
 Financial Services Authority , said he’s confident that U.K.
banks will pass European Union stress tests whose results will
be released by the end of next month.  
 “The domestic stress tests are more severe” than those
being conducted by the European Union, Turner said in a speech
in  London  today. “We are not at all concerned,” he said. “We
have been doing very extensive stress tests.”  
 EU leaders agreed last week to disclose how banks perform
in stress tests, seeking to show investors that the financial
system can withstand shocks. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government won’t compel banks to agree to the
publication of the tests, relying on market pressure for
transparency to achieve the same result.  
 The U.S. last year released the results of evaluations it
carried out on 19 financial institutions to determine whether
they needed more capital following the subprime mortgage crisis.  
 U.K. Treasury Minister  Mark Hoban  called on the European
Union earlier this month to toughen stress tests, saying there
are doubts about the solvency of some European lenders and
urging regulators to tighten checks to ensure banks can
withstand difficult market conditions. He called for “urgent”
action on institutions too weak to pass the tests.  
 Cross-border Lenders  
 The Committee of European Banking Supervisors is conducting
stress tests in cooperation with the  European Central Bank  on
several cross-border lenders, which together represent more than
“60 percent of the EU banking sector in terms of total
assets,” CEBS said in a statement on its  website  last week.  
 London-based CEBS’s role is to coordinate national banking
authorities and make policy recommendations to the European
Union on regulation.  
 A number of European central bankers have come out in favor
of publishing the results of the stress tests.  
 Spain ’s central bank plans to release the results of stress
tests “as soon as possible,” Bank of Spain governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez said on Tuesday in congress in  Madrid .  
 Under current German law, banks can refuse publication of
the results of stress tests and the government has no plans to
amend the law, Berlin-based Finance Ministry spokesman Michael Offer said last week.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        