-- Broadstripe, Delta Air, Almatis, Point Blank, First Foliage: Bankruptcy
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2010-06-24T13:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/broadstripe-delta-air-almatis-point-blank-first-foliage-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. 
announced the first step late yesterday in the last round of a
process to enable the sale of its non-bankrupt Aurora Bank FSB,
the thrift unit formerly known as Lehman Brothers Bank FSB.  
 Lehman also filed papers yesterday for approval to bring in
$125 million by selling the debt it holds against the Heritage
Fields master planned community in Irvine, California. In
addition, Lehman is selling its interest in a hedge fund called
Silver Lake Credit Fund LP.  
 At a hearing on July 14, Lehman will ask the bankruptcy
court to approve transferring servicing rights to Aurora
covering 40,000 Fannie Mae insured loans with a principal
balance of $8.8 billion. Lehman said a “large number” are
delinquent or nearly so.  
 The transfer of servicing rights is part of an upcoming
settlement between Lehman and Aurora that will enable the Office
of Thrift Supervisions to remove restrictions on the bank’s
operations. Once free of restrictions, Lehman says it will be
possible to sell Aurora.  
 The current equity value of the bank is $642 million,
Lehman says.  
 Once Lehman transfers servicing rights to Aurora, the bank
in turn will transfer the rights to Fannie Mae in exchange for
$26 million and servicing advances that were made on the loans.  
 Once the final terms are negotiated and documented, Lehman
said it would file another set of papers seeking approval of the
settlement with Aurora.  
 July 14 will also be the date of a hearing where Lehman
will seek authority to transfer the debt it holds in the 3,723-
acre Heritage Fields project. Lehman, through subsidiaries, was
among lenders that made loans to the project before Lehman’s
bankruptcy.  
 The loan will be bought by an affiliate of State Street
Corp. for $125 million. Lehman also is to receive additional
contingent payments from the project.  
 With regard to the Silver Lake hedge fund, Lehman at the
July 14 hearing will seek authority to sell its $127.5 million
capital account back to the fund for 92.5 percent paid in
stages. In addition, the fund will withdraw a $25.4 million
claim where it says Lehman guaranteed the debt of a European
subsidiary.  
 Lehman disclosed in an operating report yesterday that
professionals have been paid $830.6 million since the Chapter 11
petition was filed in September 2008. The report shows Lehman as
holding $18.4 billion cash at end of May, up $1 billion over the
month. To read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  
 As part of the trial seeking to prove that  Barclays Plc 
took $11 billion more than it was entitled to receive when it
purchased the brokerage business, the parties in the suit
yesterday publicly filed over 450 pages of transcripts of
examinations taken of witnesses under oath before the trial
began in May. To read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  
 Lehman is near the end of presenting its case at the trial.
Barclays will begin presenting its case on Aug. 23.  
 The Lehman holding company filed under Chapter 11 in New
York on Sept. 15, 2008, and sold office buildings and the North
American investment banking business to London-based  Barclays
Plc  one week later. The Lehman brokerage operations went into
liquidation on Sept. 19, 2008, in the same court. The brokerage
is in the control of a trustee appointed under the Securities
Investor Protection Act.  
 The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, while the liquidation
proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the
brokerage operation is Securities Investors Protection Corp. v.
Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District New York (Manhattan).  
 Updates  
 Luby’s Given Approval to Buy Fuddruckers from Magic Brands  
 Magic Brands LLC overcame objection from Tavistock Group
and was given authority at a hearing yesterday to sell the
 Fuddruckers  stores and franchise business to restaurant operator
 Luby’s Inc.  for $63.45 million.  
 Tavistock, which was the so-called stalking-horse, made the
first bid at auction of $40 million. It charged before the sale-
approval hearing that there were irregularities in the auction.  
 An order formally approving the sale await the judge’s
signature.  
 Houston-based Luby’s operates 96 restaurants, mostly in
Texas. Magic Brands said the sale to Luby’s “could” result in
full payment for unsecured creditors.  
 After closing stores, Austin, Texas-based Magic Brands has
62 company-owned Fuddruckers locations operating in 11 states.
It also owns the  Koo Koo Roo  restaurant brand, which has three
stores in California. The petition said assets are less than $10
million while debt is less than $50 million.  
 The Koo Koo Roo stores are in bankruptcy a second time.
Owned by Prandium Inc., they were sold to Magic Brands through
Chapter 11 in 2004. The 135 Fuddruckers stores in 32 states
owned by franchisees aren’t in the bankruptcy.  
 The case is In re Magic Brands LLC, 10-11310, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Delayed Examiner Report May Slow Tribune Confirmation  
 Kenneth N. Klee , the examiner for newspaper publisher
 Tribune Co. , told the bankruptcy judge he won’t be able to issue
his report by the July 12 deadline.  
 Since Klee wants the deadline extended to July 27, Tribune
said the currently scheduled Aug. 16 confirmation hearing for
approval of the reorganization plan may be delayed “for a short
period of time.” To read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  
 Klee is to give his opinion on the strength of arguments
that the $13.8 billion leveraged buyout led by  Sam Zell  in
December 2007 included fraudulent transfers. Klee also said he
would give his opinion on the remedies or damages creditors
might be entitled to receive were he to conclude there were
fraudulent transfers as part of the LBO. Klee said he won’t give
his opinion on the virtue of the proposed settlement that some
creditors oppose.  
 The bankruptcy judge will hold a hearing by telephone on
July 1 to decide whether Klee can have more time.  
 The plan, filed in April, is opposed by holders of $3.6
billion in pre-bankruptcy debt who announced their opposition
even before the settlement was formally disclosed. To read about
the plan, the proposed settlement, and the parties’ arguments,
click here for the April 13 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 Tribune is the second-largest newspaper publisher in the
U.S. It listed $13 billion in debt for borrowed money and assets
of $7.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
December 2008. It owns the Chicago Tribune, Los Angeles Times,
six other newspapers and 23 television stations.  
 The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Secured Lenders Appealing Visteon Plan Financing Approval  
 Secured lenders to auto parts maker Visteon Corp. filed an
appeal from approval the bankruptcy judge gave on June 17 for an
agreement allowing bondholders will raise $1.25 billion cash
needed for confirmation of a reorganization plan. The hearing
for approval of the disclosure statement explaining the plan is
scheduled for tomorrow. To read Bloomberg coverage of the
appeal, click here.  
 To read about the Visteon’s plan, click here for the June
15 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. The newest plan would give
shareholders 1.94 percent of the stock if they vote in favor of
the reorganization. The remainder of the plan is much the same
as before, although the amount of stock received by other
constituencies is changed to account for the shareholders’
piece.  
 To read about the positions being taken by various parties
prior to the hearing for approval of the disclosure statement,
click here for the May 25 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 Visteon filed for reorganization in May 2009, listing
assets of $4.6 billion against debt totaling $5.3 billion. Sales
in 2008 were $9.5 billion, including $3.1 billion to  Ford Motor
Co.  Visteon was spun off from Ford in 2000. Van Buren Township,
Michigan-based Visteon at the outset owed $2.7 billion for
borrowed money, including $1.5 billion on a secured term loan,
$862 million on unsecured bonds, and $214 million on other debt
obligations.  
 The case is In re Visteon Corp., 09-11786, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Broadstripe Sells Washington Cable Systems for $1,200  
 Broadstripe LLC, a St. Louis-based broadband cable
operator, is seeking court permission to sell several small
money-losing cable systems in the Washington, D.C., area for
$1,200.  
 Broadstripe said in court papers last week that the systems
are losing money and there were no offers except from buyers
wanting to purchase other operations the company doesn’t want to
sell.  
 New Day Broadband LLC offered $1,200, a price Broadstripe
wants the bankruptcy judge in Delaware to approve at a July 1
hearing.  
 If the cable systems aren’t sold, Broadstripe said it would
incur $273,000 in costs to tear down the systems in compliance
with local regulations.  
 When Broadstripe completes its 18th month in bankruptcy on
July 2, any creditor may file a Chapter 11 plan. The company has
been unable to confirm a plan in view of a suit where the
unsecured creditors’ committee contends that secured lenders’
claims should be subordinated or recharacterized as equity. In
addition, there are two claims by rival cable operators totaling
almost $160 million for Broadstripe’s alleged failures to
complete asset purchase agreements.  
 Broadstripe filed a reorganization plan based on an
agreement reached before the Chapter 11 filing with holders of
the first- and second-lien debt. At the outset of Chapter 11,
Broadstripe had 93,000 customers in Maryland, Michigan,
Washington State, and Oregon. It was created through four
acquisitions in 1998 and 1999 and filed for Chapter 11
reorganization in January 2009.  
 The case is In re Broadstripe LLC, 09-10006, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Statistics  
 Public Company Filings Trail 2009 in Amount, Number  
 Fifty public companies filed for bankruptcy reorganization
or liquidation this year through June 20, compared with 118 in
the same period last year, according to BankruptcyData.com.  
 Assets of the public companies filing in Chapters 7 or 11
so far this year totaled $45 billion, 12 percent of the $376
billion of assets in bankrupt companies filing in the same
period of 2009.  
 The peak public-company filings in dollar amount of assets
was $1.16 trillion in 2008. In number of public company filings
over the last 10 years, the leader was 2001 with 263 filings,
followed by 220 in 2002 and 210 in 2009, BankruptcyData.com
said.  
 The 10-year low was 66 public-company filings in 2006, with
$22 billion in assets.  
 New Filing  
 First Foliage, Florida Nursery, Files Chapter 11 in Miami  
 First Foliage LC, a grower and marketer of tropical plants,
filed for Chapter 11 reorganization yesterday in Miami, listing
assets of $52 million against liabilities totaling $30.7
million.  
 The company said it was forced into bankruptcy by the lack
of crop insurance coverage and a lender that doesn’t want to be
making loans in the nursery business.  
 Homestead, Florida-based First Foliage owes $24 million to
Bank of America NA on a term loan and revolving credit. The
company contends it should be allowed to use cash representing
security for the bank’s loan because the lender’s collateral is
allegedly worth $52 million.  
 First Foliage says it’s one of the three largest tropical
foliage nurseries in the U.S. and one of the 10 largest foliage
nurseries. The current owners bought the assets from a bankrupt
company in 2000 for $150,000 cash plus the assumption of $38
million in debt.  
 The business operates on a 446-acre tract, of which 134
acres are owned. Court papers say the customers are so-called
Big Box stores like Lowe’s Cos., Home Depot Inc. and Wal-Mart
Stores Inc.  
 The case is In re First Foliage LC, 10-27532, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District Florida (Miami).  
 Daily Podcast  
 Will Texas Rangers Fight or Settle?: Audio  
 Will the Texas Rangers settle with secured lenders as the
result of an opinion this week where the bankruptcy judge found
defects in the reorganization plan? For the answer, listen to
the latest bankruptcy podcast on the Bloomberg terminal and
Bloomberglaw.com. We also look at the issues for trial at the
July 9 Rangers confirmation hearing and analyze whether the
Rangers or the lenders will come out on top. To listen, click
here.  
 Exchange Offer News  
 American Capital’s Exchange Accepted Without Bankruptcy  
 American Capital Ltd.  won’t be filing Chapter 11.  
 After modifying the exchange offer on June 10, holders of
98 percent of the public notes accepted the exchange offer. The
company said in a statement that it expects to complete the swap
on June 28.  
 American Capital is a Bethesda, Maryland-based publicly
traded private-equity investor and asset manager. The exchange
offer was originally announced in May.  
 For details on the exchange offer, click here for the June
10 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. The offer covers all of the
company’s $2.35 billion in unsecured, funded debt.  
 American Capital had an investment grade rating until March
2009. The stock lost 5 cents yesterday, closing at $5.53 in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The three-year closing high was
$35.25 on July 6, 2007.  
 Briefly Noted  
 Tousa’s Cash Declines to $486 Million at May 31  
 Liquidating homebuilder  Tousa Inc.  ended May with $485.9
million cash in the bank, a decline of $3.8 million in the
month. With assets mostly sold, revenue in the month was only
$827,000.  
 On top of asset sale proceeds, creditors will have
additional recoveries if appellate courts uphold the judgment in
a lawsuit brought by the official creditors’ committee. The
bankruptcy judge ruled that a bailout and refinancing in mid-
2007 of a joint venture in Transeastern Properties Inc. resulted
in fraudulent transfers. The bankruptcy judge required the banks
to post $700 million in bonds to hold up enforcement of the
judgment pending appeal. The appeal will be argued in late
October in district court.  
 Tousa filed for bankruptcy reorganization in January 2008.
The Hollywood, Florida-based company listed assets of $2.1
billion against debt totaling $2 billion. At the outset of the
reorganization it was 67 percent-owned by  Technical Olympic SA .  
 The case is In re Tousa Inc., 08-10928, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  
 Point Blank Generates $187,000 Net Income in May  
 Point Blank Solutions Inc. , a manufacturer of soft body
armor for the military and law enforcement, reported net income
of $187,000 in May on net sales of $10.6 million. Operating
income in the month was $924,000.  
 Point Blank filed under Chapter 11 in April. It has a plant
and head office in Pompano Beach, Florida, and a second plant in
Jacksboro, Tennessee. Revenue in 2009 was more than $153
million. The petition listed assets of $64 million against debt
totaling $68.5 million. Debt included a $10.5 million secured
loan to be paid off by financing for the Chapter 11 case. Point
Blank said it also owes $28.2 million to trade suppliers. Three
former officers were indicted on charges of securities fraud.  
 The case is In re Point Blank Solutions Inc., 10-11255,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware.  
 Advance Sheets  
 Aircraft Owners’ Tax Indemnity Claims Are Proper  
 The U.S. Court of Appeals in Manhattan ruled in favor of
aircraft owners this week on an issue that has bedeviled
bankruptcy courts in recent airline reorganizations such as
Delta Air Lines Inc., UAL Corp.’s United Air Lines Inc. and
Northwest Airlines Corp.  
 The issues involved so-called leveraged leases where a bank
or financial institution would be the owner of an aircraft
leased to an airline that pays all costs of operation and
maintenance. For investing 20 percent of the purchase price to
buy the aircraft, the owner is entitled under tax law to take
depreciation deductions based on the entire value of the
aircraft. The remainder of the purchase price is borrowed from
lenders who have a security interest in the aircraft.  
 If the airline goes bankrupt and terminates the lease for
the aircraft, the lenders foreclose and wipe out the owner’s
equity. In addition, foreclosure results in significant tax
payments because forgiveness of indebtedness as a consequence of
foreclosure becomes taxable as ordinary income for the owner.  
 To compensate for the unintended tax consequences, the
documents accompanying the leveraged lease include a tax
indemnification agreement where the airline agrees to make up
the tax losses. In addition, there is a separate agreement where
the airline agrees to pay an amount called stipulated loss
value.  
 Stipulated loss value, or SLV as it’s known, is calculated
under a formula that equals the value of the aircraft plus the
owner’s tax losses.  
 Delta, Northwest, and UAL all objected to the owners’ tax
indemnity claims in their now-completed bankruptcy
reorganizations. In the Delta case, the airline won when the
bankruptcy judge in substance disallowed the tax claim, because
it was duplicated by the SLV claim asserted by the lenders. The
district court affirmed the bankruptcy court.  
 The 2nd Circuit in Manhattan reversed on June 22, saying
that the lower courts improperly based their reasoning on “a
strained and improbable reading” of the word “paid” as
contained in the governing contracts.  
 The lower courts said that the owners were “paid” even
though bankruptcy gave them only a small portion of the damages
called for in their contracts. The Circuit Court didn’t buy the
theory.  
 The court, in an opinion by Circuit Judge  Pierre N. Leval ,
said the lower courts gave a “nonsensical and self-defeating”
meaning to the word “paid.” Leval said the lower courts
instead should have adopted an interpretation of the words that
was in accord with the purpose of the provisions in the
contracts.  
 The ruling this week will give the aircraft owners large
unsecured claims in the airline’s reorganizations. Even with a
smaller aircraft, a tax indemnity claim can be worth several
million dollars. On a wide-body aircraft, a tax indemnity claim
can amount to tens of millions of dollars.  
 The case is Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Delta
Air Lines Inc. (In re Delta Air Lines Inc.), 08-5002, 2nd U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals (Manhattan).  
 Negotiations on Prepack Not Privileged, Judge Rules  
 Documents exchanged between a company and lenders before
signing a plan support agreement must be turned over to
dissenting creditors in a discovery fight leading up to a plan
confirmation hearing, a bankruptcy judge in Manhattan ruled on
June 21.  
 The case involves Almatis BV, a producer of specialty
alumina products, and a prepackaged reorganization currently
scheduled for approval at a July 19 confirmation hearing.
Almatis filed under Chapter 11 on April 30 with a plan
negotiated with holders of first-lien debt.  
 The plan is opposed by second-lien and mezzanine debt
holders who would almost be wiped out under the plan.  
 When the junior lenders demanded production of documents
about negotiations leading up to the agreement on the plan, the
senior lenders argued to U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Martin Glenn  that
documents need not be produced under the so-called common
interest doctrine.  
 Glenn rejected the argument, pointing out that agreement on
the plan was negotiated at arm’s length between the senior
lenders and Almatis. Since he found a “largely adversarial
relationship,” Glenn held that the common interest doctrine
didn’t apply to documents create before there was consensus on
the so-called plan-support agreement.  
 The decision is important because it requires disclosure of
documents created in the give-and-take during negotiations on a
bankruptcy reorganization plan. To read the decision, click
here.  
 The upcoming confirmation hearing on the plan entails a
dispute over the value of Almatis. To confirm the plan over
objection from junior lenders, Glenn must conclude that the
dissenters are receiving more under the plan than they would
take home through a liquidation in Chapter 7.  
 The junior lenders believe the company has value “much
greater than the $540 million” claimed by the company. They
accuse Almatis of walking away from offers by Dubai
International Capital LLC that would have paid the first lien in
full while giving new debt and equity to junior lenders.  
 Dubai International bought the Almatis business in 2007 for
$1.2 billion.  
 For details on the Almatis plan and options for first-line
lenders, click here for the April 30 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  
 Almatis’ revenue in 2009 was $400 million. For 2010,
projected revenue is $534 million. Almatis began defaulting on
senior debt in June 2009.  
 Rotterdam-based Almatis listed total debt of $1.3 billion,
including $681 million on first-lien obligations, $77.7 million
on second-lien debt, and $200.6 million on mezzanine debt. There
is junior mezzanine debt of $80.6 million, plus trade debt of
$20 million. Assets were listed for assets $1.53 billion.  
 The case is In re Almatis BV, 10-12308, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  
 Bank Avoids Waiver of Security Interest in Account  
 A bank that turned over money in a bankrupt’s checking
account didn’t waive a security interest, the Bankruptcy
Appellate Panel for the 6th Circuit ruled on June 23 in
reversing the bankruptcy court.  
 The bank was a secured creditor with a $1 million claim.
When the company filed to liquidate in Chapter 7, the company’s
checking account contained almost 500,000 that was the bank’s
collateral.  
 When the bankruptcy trustee demanded the bank turn over the
funds, the bank complied. Later, the trustee argued successfully
to the bankruptcy judge that the bank waived the security
interests by turning over the money.  
 The Appellate Panel reversed, holding that the bank’s
security interest in the money was fixed on the bankruptcy
filing date. The opinion, by Bankruptcy Judge  Marilyn Shea- Stonum , said the security interest was not lost merely because
“the creditor no longer had possession of the collateral.”  
 She also said that turning over the money at the demand of
the trustee “is not a waiver of the underlying claim nor an
avoidance of the underlying security interest.”  
 Shea-Stonum chided the bank for not employing a strategy
that would have avoided costly litigation with the trustee, such
as placing an administrative freeze on the account rather that
turning over the money so easily.  
 The case is Limor v. First National Bank of Woodbury (In re
Cumberland Molded Products LLC), 09-8049, Bankruptcy Appellate
Panel, 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Cincinnati).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        