-- Buy Tele Norte, Telesp Stock on Brazil Telecommunications Deals, UBS Says
-- Alexander Cuadros
-- 2010-06-24T17:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/buy-tele-norte-telesp-stock-on-brazil-telecommunications-deals-ubs-says.html

          
          
             Telecomunicacoes de Sao Paulo SA  and
 Tele Norte Leste Participacoes SA  common shares were rated
“buy” at UBS AG, which said they will benefit most from a
“complete transformation” in Brazil’s telecommunications
industry.  
 Tele Norte, the parent of Brazil’s biggest phone company
which operates under the Oi brand, and Telesp, a unit of
Telefonica SA, will gain as mergers and acquisitions lead mobile
and fixed-line units in the country to integrate,  Tomas Lajous, 
an analyst with UBS, wrote in a note to clients.  
 “Technological change, competitive dynamics, and
regulatory action are leading a transformation in Brazilian
telecoms,” Lajous wrote. “The players that come out of this
process with the biggest and bestest networks are set to end up
the overall winners of the Brazil story. It’s about who gets
what in M&A.”  
 UBS recommends buying both classes of Telesp shares as well
as the common shares of Tele Norte. Investors should sell Tele
Norte’s preferred shares, which may not benefit as the company
restructures as part of its 2009 acquisition of Brasil Telecom
SA, Lajous said.  
 Telefonica Offer  
 Investors are speculating consolidation in Brazil phone
companies will accelerate after Spain’s Telefonica offered 6.5
billion euros ($8 billion) to take control of Portugal Telecom
SGPS SA’s stake in a joint venture controlling  Vivo
Participacoes SA , Brazil’s biggest wireless carrier. A measure
of telecommunications companies in the MSCI Brazil Index has
climbed 3.1 percent this quarter as the overall market gauge
dropped 11 percent.  
 Phone companies fell today as the Bovespa stock index slid
the most in three weeks after a report showed domestic
unemployment unexpectedly rose in May and amid renewed concern
that Europe’s debt crisis is worsening.  
 Telemar Norte Leste SA , controlled by Tele Norte, was
initiated with a “neutral” rating. Preferred shares of  Tim
Participacoes SA , the Brazilian unit of Italy’s largest phone
company, and common shares of Brasil Telecom were also initiated
with a “neutral” rating. Tim’s common shares and Brasil
Telecom’s preferred shares were rated “sell.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        