-- Buy Dollar Thrifty Automotive Options to Profit From Bidding War, MKM Says
-- Nikolaj Gammeltoft
-- 2010-06-24T13:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/buy-dollar-thrifty-automotive-options-to-profit-from-bidding-war-mkm-says.html

          
          
             Investors should buy bullish  Dollar
Thrifty Automotive Group Inc.  options to profit from a possible
counteroffer from  Avis Budget Group Inc.  for the rental-car
company that accepted a buyout from  Hertz Global Holdings Inc. ,
MKM Partners LP said.  
 Options strategist  Jim Strugger  recommended buying August
$45 calls on Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Dollar Thrifty, which in
April agreed to be acquired by Hertz for $41 a share, or $1.3
billion. Buying August $45 calls while selling August $50 calls,
a strategy known as a call spread that cuts the price of the
trade while capping potential profit, is another way to benefit
from a competing bid from Parsippany, New Jersey-based Avis
Budget, Strugger said.  
 “We believe a counteroffer by Avis Budget could come prior
to August option expiration,” the Greenwich, Connecticut-based
strategist wrote in a report yesterday. “Additionally, Avis
Budget management has indicated that its bid may be
substantially above Hertz’s bid.”  
 The spreads will make money if the stock price exceeds $50
at the August expiration. Investors will earn the $5 spread
between buying the $45 calls and selling the $50 call options
with a maximum profit from this strategy of $5 per contract less
the cost of the spread, which traded at about $1.40 yesterday.  
 While selling  options  helps finance the transaction and
also caps profit, only buying $45 calls would not cap the
potential upside.  
 Bid Level  
 “There are plenty of people who believe that when Avis
comes in and bids for Dollar it could be at the $53 to $56
level,” Strugger said in an interview. “Whether investors
should just buy the $45 calls or use the call spread is really
dependent on your view on how high Avis’ bid comes in for
Dollar.”  
 Avis signaled interest in Dollar Thrifty on May 3, a week
after Dollar Thrifty stockholders called Hertz’s bid too low.
Dollar Thrifty has said it’s ready to consider a higher offer
from Avis while working to close the Hertz deal. Avis has said
that the company “would like to make a substantially higher
offer to acquire Dollar Thrifty” and has signed a
confidentiality agreement to examine the company’s financial
information.  
 Dollar Thrifty fell 0.4 percent to $43.53 at 9:33 a.m. in
New York. Park Ridge, New Jersey-based Hertz decreased or 1
percent to $9.98. Avis lost 0.9 percent to $10.90.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        