-- CA Immo Buys Volksbanken's Europolis Real Estate Unit in $336 Million Deal
-- Ben Livesey
-- 2010-06-24T17:27:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/ca-immobilien-anlagen-buys-volksbanken-s-europolis-unit-for-336-million.html

          
          
             CA Immobilien Anlagen AG, Austria’s
second-biggest property developer, is buying Oesterreichische
Volksbanken AG’s Europolis real estate unit for 272 million
euros ($336 million) as it expands its eastern Europe property
holdings.  
 One-half of the purchase price is payable upon closing of
the transaction expected in January and the remainder is to be
deferred over five years from the closing date. Oesterreichische
Volksbanken will provide around 40 percent of the total
financing, Vienna-based CA Immo said in a statement today.  
 The pace of property deals has slowed in central and
eastern Europe since the financial crisis sparked recessions in
the region, according to data compiled by  CB Richard Ellis Group
Inc.  Investment totaled 225 million euros from 15 deals in
January and February. There were about 2.7 billion euros of
transactions in the first quarter of 2008, the data show.  
 Europolis had assets of about 1.5 billion euros at the end
of 2009, mostly in central and eastern Europe, according to the
company’s  website . It reported a loss of 177 million euros for
that year on property writedowns.  
 Europolis owns offices, and shopping and logistics centers
in the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Slovakia,
Croatia, Russia and Ukraine. Most of the assets it controls are
in partnerships with the European Bank for Reconstruction &
Development, Union Investment Real Estate AG and Axa Real Estate
Investment Management.  
 CA Immo also plans to merge with its east Europe real
estate unit CA Immo International AG and is in the process of
delisting it.  
 Volksbanken, which received 1 billion euros in state aid
last year, hired Lazard & Co. in January to evaluate possible
strategic partners. The bank had a 2009 net loss of 1.1 billion
euros after bad-loan provisions jumped. Chief Executive Officer
 Gerald Wenzel  said April 21 that Europolis wasn’t a “core”
business.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zoe Schneeweiss  in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        