-- Cameron Says Monetary Policy Will Sustain Demand If U.K. Economy Falters
-- Gonzalo Vina
-- 2010-06-24T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/cameron-says-monetary-policy-will-sustain-demand-if-u-k-economy-falters.html

          
          
             Prime Minister  David Cameron  said
monetary policy will be used to sustain demand if the British
economy falters next year, rejecting any loosening of the
government’s fiscal consolidation program.  
 Cameron said reassuring investors about the government’s
determination to close Britain’s structural budget gap by 2015
is a priority, and demand management is a job for the central
bank. The premier said more work is needed to make sure existing
monetary easing translates into more bank lending.  
 “We want monetary policy to do the work,” Cameron told
reporters yesterday as he flew to Canada for the Group of 20
summit. “One of the issues is still bank lending. We want to
make sure money is getting out of the banks to the businesses.”  
 With interest rates at near-zero, Cameron’s comments pave
the way for Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  to request
permission from the Treasury to extend its 200 billion-pound
($300 billion) bond-purchase program, known as quantitative
easing, if the economy deteriorates.  
 Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , who joins
Cameron in Toronto later today, announced the biggest budget
squeeze since World War II this week.  
 Top Grade  
 Moritz Kraemer , head of sovereign ratings for Europe,
Middle East and Africa at Standard & Poor’s, praised the
measures yesterday while urging the government to sustain its
efforts to safeguard the top investment grade for Britain’s
government bonds.  
 Cameron’s comments may reassure the U.S. and other G-20
countries that fear excessive fiscal retrenchment may imperil
economic recovery after the financial crisis triggered the worst
recession since the 1930s.  
 “We must be flexible in adjusting the pace of consolidation
and learn from the consequential mistakes of the past, when
stimulus was too quickly withdrawn and resulted in renewed
economic hardships and recession,” President  Barack Obama  wrote
in a June 16 letter to G-20 leaders.  
 Osborne’s budget this week spelled out proposals to cut
spending and raise taxes by as much as 40 billion pounds a year,
that together with plans set out by his Labour Party
predecessor,  Alistair Darling , will suck 113 billion pounds out
of the economy by 2015. Osborne is due to spell out reductions
in departmental budgets in the fall.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in Halifax, Nova Scotia at  gvina@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Linda Yueh, an economist at Oxford University, talks with Bloomberg's Maryam Nemazee about the outlook for this weekend's Group of 20 summit in Toronto and proposals for a global bank levy and a tax on securities transactions to clamp down on financial speculation.
     Yueh, speaking in London, also discusses the debate over austerity measures aimed at cutting budget deficits and stimulating global economic growth. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
