-- Cameron Urges Moves to Cut Deficits, Sees No G-20 Policy Split With U.S.
-- Gonzalo Vina
-- 2010-06-25T16:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/cameron-urges-moves-to-cut-deficits-sees-no-g-20-policy-split-with-u-s-.html

          
          
             Prime Minister  David Cameron 
defended this week’s U.K. budget, saying governments need to
take steps to reduce their deficits, and said there was no split
over fiscal policy with the U.S. before this weekend’s Group of
20 summit.  
 “We must each start by setting out plans for getting our
national finances under control,” Cameron wrote in a letter
published today in the Globe and Mail newspaper in Toronto,
where the summit takes place. “In Britain this week we showed
how we will start to live within our means again. Like you, we
have had to make some unpopular but unavoidable decisions on tax
and spending.”  
 Cameron’s comments follow his government’s announcement on
June 22 of welfare cuts and tax increases that add up to the
U.K.’s biggest budget squeeze since World War II. The prime
minister says those plans aren’t at odds with warnings from
President  Barack Obama ’s top economic advisers that budget cuts
mustn’t come at the expense of growth.  
 “There is no difference on that between us and the
Americans,” Cameron told BBC television today at the Group of 8
summit, which precedes the G-20.  
 “The risk to us -- and the Americans and others recognize
this -- is not taking action,” the prime minister said in a
separate interview with Sky News TV. “I think that the G-8 will
actually conclude that those countries with the worst problems
need to accelerate their action, which is what we have done.”  
 ‘Unlock Confidence’  
 Cameron told Sky that the budget “will actually unlock
confidence” in Britain “because people will see that there is
a strong government with a plan.”  
 “Individual countries need to take into account conditions
in their own economies” to “restore confidence and growth,”
Cameron wrote in his Globe and Mail letter. “The question is
how we will deliver,” he said. “There must be flexibility for
countries to act, taking account of their own national
circumstances.”  
 “We must demonstrate a commitment to reducing long-term
deficits, but not at the price of short-term growth,” Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and  Lawrence Summers , director of
the White House’s National Economic Council, wrote in an opinion
piece posted yesterday on the Wall Street Journal’s  website .
“Without growth now, deficits will rise further.”  
 German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  has said “there is no
alternative” to reducing deficits.  
 ‘Strengthening Capital’  
 Cameron said the G-20 must accelerate moves to repair the
world’s financial system and repeated that many banks owe their
existence today to government bailouts. He wrote that he is
“convinced that we need to move faster on strengthening capital
and liquidity in our banks so that they can fix their own
problems without the taxpayer bearing the cost.”  
 The prime minister defended the imposition of a levy on
banks’ liabilities in the U.K. budget this week. He welcomed
French and German pledges to introduce similar measures, while
recognizing that “this approach won’t necessarily be for
everyone.”  
 G-20 finance ministers failed this month to agree on a
global bank levy in the face of opposition by countries whose
banks fared better in the financial crisis, such as Canada and
Brazil.  
 Cameron said the G-20 needs to focus on delivering results,
and his spokesman  Steve Field  told reporters yesterday the prime
minister would not be putting forward fresh initiatives at this
meeting.  
 For example, Field said, G-20 countries should begin
working on bilateral trade deals, while attempts continue to
conclude the Doha trade round.  
 “We need to show people that we can get real results by
concentrating on key priorities and then driving them through
relentlessly year after year,” Cameron wrote.  
 Cameron is scheduled to meet Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  tomorrow afternoon and hold separate talks with Obama
and Chinese President  Hu Jintao  the following day. The G-20
summit takes place June 26-27.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in Toronto at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        