-- Cameron's Austerity Sets Benchmark for G-20 Summit
-- Theophilos Argitis
-- 2010-06-25T14:41:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/cameron-tax-and-axe-new-austerity-sets-benchmark-for-europe-g-20-headache.html

          
          
             U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  is
showing the way on fiscal austerity as he attends his first
summit of world leaders today. Whether his path leads to
recovery or another recession is driving a transatlantic dispute
that will dominate the talks in Canada.  
 Chastened by the Greek crisis, Cameron’s six-week-old
government this week proposed Britain’s biggest round of budget
cuts since World War II to reduce a deficit worth 11 percent of
gross domestic product, the largest in the Group of 20.  
 European policy makers fear failure to patch up public
finances now risks reviving a bond market selloff that required
a bailout for Greece last month, while President  Barack Obama 
says deficit reduction could hurt economic growth and
employment. The U.K. presents a test case for G-20 politicians
as they argue how quickly to act.  
 “This is going to be one of the biggest experiments, and
the U.S. can sit and watch and look to see what happens to the
U.K. output data, which I suspect is about to collapse,”  David Blanchflower , a former Bank of England policy maker, said in a
radio interview with  Tom Keene  on “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  
 Cameron, Obama and colleagues from the Group of Eight meet
today in Huntsville, Ontario, and join their G-20 counterparts
tomorrow in Toronto. Leaders last year anointed the enlarged
group as the main  forum  for global economic coordination.  
 At Odds  
 Just as they split on how much to spend fighting the global
credit crisis, governments are now at odds over when to start
trimming a G-20 debt load that the International Monetary Fund
estimates will average 110 percent of GDP in 2015.  
 While China’s decision to allow a more flexible yuan may
cool discussions over exchange rates, divisions also exist over
what buffers banks should introduce to avoid future crises and
how to force them to cover the cost of a potential rescue.  
 “Consensus among the G-20 has been the hallmark of prior
summits and the source of its effectiveness,” said  Daniel Price , who organized the November 2008 G-20 summit for former
President  George W. Bush . “That consensus may be fragmenting.”  
 Chancellor of the Exchequer,  George Osborne , began June 22
with an emergency budget that imposed a levy on banks, raised
the sales tax and slashed spending. The plan, alongside measures
proposed by the prior government, will generate 113 billion
pounds ($169 billion) of deficit cuts, 15 percent of the 737
billion-pound budget foreseen for 2015, the Treasury said.  
 Market Endorsement  
 Cameron’s plan this week won the endorsement of bond
investors and credit rating companies. Fitch Ratings said the
“ambitious” budget ensured Britain would keep its AAA credit
rating, while Moody’s Investors Service said the U.K.’s budget
is “supportive” of the top credit level.  
 U.K.  gilts  headed for the biggest weekly gain in a month
today. The 10-year gilt  yield  was little changed at 3.40
percent, leaving it 15 basis points lower from June 18. The 4.75
percent security maturing in March 2020 fell 0.07, or 70 pence
per 1,000-pound ($1,499) face amount, to 111.08. The two-year
yield was at 0.74 percent.  
 The pound appreciated 0.2 percent to $1.4960 at 3:32 p.m.
in London and depreciated 0.2 percent to 133.52 yen from 133.84
yen. It was 0.4 percent stronger against the euro at 82.22
pence.  
 Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said the U.K. could have
been the next victim of a “market panic” sweeping Europe if
the government had not acted. Such concerns may have driven up
local borrowing costs for companies such as  Tesco Plc,  the
U.K.’s biggest retailer, and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc .  
 ‘False Choice’  
 Osborne’s Labour predecessor,  Alistair Darling , yesterday
told a Bloomberg Link conference in London that if you “take
all this money out of the economy” its recovery may stumble.
Osborne dismisses the view that nations can’t reduce deficits
and support growth in lockstep as presenting a “false choice.”  
 “The crisis in the euro-zone shows that unless we deal
with our debts there will be no growth,” he said. “A credible
plan to cut our  budget deficit  goes hand in hand with a steady
and sustained recovery.”  
 “The assertion that fiscal tightening reduces growth is
far from proven,” said  Ben Broadbent , an economist at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. in London, who says budget cuts can be offset
by looser monetary conditions such as a falling exchange rate.
He predicts the U.K. will expand 3.1 percent next year compared
with the 2.3 percent forecast of the Office for Budget
Responsibility.  
 ‘Absolutely Necessary’  
 Cameron’s call for prudence is echoed elsewhere in Europe
six weeks after the region’s governments united to save Greece
from default. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , whose Cabinet
this month backed budget cuts worth more than 80 billion euros
through 2014, said June 22 that she told Obama reducing debt is
“absolutely necessary.”  
 Countries including Greece and Spain are already
introducing austerity plans, and outside Europe, Japanese Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  this week pledged to cap spending for three
years and overhaul the tax system.  
 The recent experience of countries from Canada to Ireland
proves it is possible to slash budgets and maintain economic
growth, according to  Andrew Lilico , chief economist at the
Policy Exchange, a London-based research group.  
 That’s not stopping Obama from warning against a premature
retraction of stimulus given  unemployment  remains near 10
percent and synchronized cuts worldwide would leave countries
jostling to export their way out of trouble. The White House’s
efforts to push an election-year jobs bill suffered a setback
yesterday when Senate Republicans killed the legislation, citing
its impact on the deficit.  
 1937 Lesson  
 “We must demonstrate a commitment to reducing long-term
deficits, but not at the price of short-term growth,”  Treasury 
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and  Lawrence Summers , director of
the White House’s National Economic Council, wrote on the Wall
Street Journal’s website on June 22.  
 The nightmare scenario for leaders is a repeat of the
U.S.’s woes in 1937 and Japan’s six decades later when
governments tipped their economies into renewed recessions by
cutting support. In the mid-1930s, then U.S. President  Franklin Roosevelt  began chopping spending and raising taxes after an
initial rebound only to lengthen the Great Depression. Japan’s
government helped trigger another 20-month recession when it
raised its sales tax in 1997 to 5 percent from 3 percent.  
 ‘Depressed’ Economies  
 Nobel laureate  Paul Krugman  sides with Obama, arguing that
with central bank interest rates so low fiscal policy needs to
remain stimulative and markets aren’t signaling an immediate
need to repair state balance sheets. Past fiscal turnarounds,
such as Canada’s in the 1990s and Ireland’s in the 1980s, were
accompanied by strong growth elsewhere in the world that aided
exports or interest rate cuts, he says.  
 “We continue to need fiscal stimulus, we are depressed,
we’re in danger of falling into a deflationary trap,” Krugman,
a professor at Princeton University in New Jersey, said in a
speech in Tel Aviv on June 22. The European push to balance
budgets is a “deeply destructive move.”  
 Governments could still get a lift from markets by
outlining how they will eventually clean up their budgets and
tackling long-term fiscal challenges such as aging populations,
says  Ethan Harris  at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  
 Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , who will chair the
meetings, is seeking such a solution by calling on leaders to
“send a clear message” that they will halve deficits by 2013.
There is a consensus to maintain stimulus now with the focus on
deficits in the “medium-term,” he said in a June 21 interview.  
 The best mix may be for Europe to lead the way, given the
dollar’s reserve currency status will ensure it lures the
foreign capital needed to plug its deficit, said  Michael Amey ,
executive vice-president of U.K. fixed income in London for
Pacific Investment Management Co.  
 “If everybody tightens at the same time then you have a
big problem,” Amey said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron speaks during a press conference in Brussels. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Tim Adams, a former U.S. Treasury undersecretary and now managing director of the Lindsey Group, a Fairfax, Virginia-based investment consulting company, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the shift in China's currency policy and its implications for the nation's relations with the U.S. 
     Adams, speaking from Washington, also discusses the outlook for the Group of 20 summit in Toronto, U.K.'s budget, and U.S. and European fiscal policies. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Jeffrey Miron, a professor at Harvard University, talks about the potential that the U.S. and Group of 20 nations will adopt taxes targeted at financial institutions.
     Miron appears on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness With Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
