-- U.S. House Approves Measure to Require Disclosure of Political-Ad Funding
-- Jonathan D. Salant
-- 2010-06-25T04:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/campaign-spending-bill-passed-by-u-s-house-following-supreme-court-ruling.html

          
          
             The U.S. House, responding to a
U.S. Supreme Court decision, approved legislation yesterday
requiring groups that air political advertisements to disclose
who paid for them.  
 The measure, passed 219-206, was spurred by the court’s
decision in January that overturned a decades-old ban on
companies using general-treasury money to run campaign ads
supporting or opposing a candidate. The ruling, in effect,
lifted such limits on union spending.  
 Two Republicans,  Michael Castle  of Delaware and  Anh “Joseph” Cao  of Louisiana, joined 217 Democrats in backing the
bill. Voting no were 170 Republicans and 36 Democrats. The bill
now goes to the Senate for consideration, where its prospects
are unclear.  
 Lawmakers supporting the bill said advocacy groups that
receive corporate or union money to run ads should disclose the
funding sources.  
 “This legislation restores transparency and accountability
to federal campaigns and ensures that Americans know when Wall
Street, big oil and health insurers are the ones behind
political advertisements,” said House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , a
California Democrat.  
 Republican Criticism  
 Republicans portrayed the measure as an assault on the
First Amendment. They said the measure favored some groups, like
unions, over others, rendering it unconstitutional.  
 “We’re so cavalierly dealing with the First Amendment,”
said Representative  Daniel Lungren , a California Republican.
“We’re so cavalierly dealing with free speech.”  
 The bill would affect all political advertising, including
so-called issue ads designed to elect particular candidates
without directly asking voters to support or oppose them.  
 It would require corporations and unions to disclose all
political spending, including contributions to outside groups
that now would also be required to disclose their donors.  
 Corporate chief executive officers would have to appear in
ads run by the company and say they approve of the message, as
candidates are required to do.  
 The measure would bar such political spending by companies
with more than $10 million in government contracts and
institutions that hadn’t repaid money from the Troubled Asset
Relief Program passed in 2008. Foreign-owned corporations also
would be covered by the ban, though it wouldn’t apply to their
U.S. subsidies’ political action committees.  
 Before the Supreme Court ruling, corporations and unions
seeking to support candidates had been forced to rely on
regulated political action committees. Corporations are barred
from contributing directly to candidates.  
 Trade Groups  
 Business trade groups led by the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce 
oppose the measure, which would require them for the first time
to reveal the companies funding their political ads.  
 Chamber President  Tom Donohue , in a statement after the
House vote, said the legislation “clearly violates the
Constitution, as well as basic principles of fairness and
equity.”  
 The measure exempts some nonprofit groups incorporated
under Section 501(c) of the U.S.  tax code  that have existed for
at least 10 years; have at least 500,000 members with at least
one from each of the 50 states, the District of Columbia and
Puerto Rico; and receive no more than 15 percent of their funds
from corporations.  
 NRA Threat  
 That provision was added at the behest of the  National
Rifle Association , which threatened to oppose the legislation if
it was covered by the bill. The gun lobby so far has given
almost $450,000 to congressional candidates in the 2010 campaign
and made about $520,000 in independent expenditures, according
to the Washington-based  Center for Responsive Politics .  
 The decision to exempt the NRA divided organizations that
normally unite in support of stronger campaign finance
laws.  Public Citizen  and  League of Women Voters  endorsed the
legislation; the  U.S. Public Interest Research Group 
asked lawmakers to reject it.  
 “This is a great piece of reform but unfortunately we
think the exemption takes the bill off-track,” said Lisa
Gilbert, USPIRG’s campaign finance lobbyist.  
 President  Barack Obama  has urged Congress to approve the
bill, which he called “a necessary measure so that Americans
will know who is trying to influence the nation’s elections.”
Obama, in his January 27 State of the Union address, took issue
with the 5-4 Supreme Court ruling on campaign spending.  
 ‘Not Perfect’  
 In a statement after yesterday’s House vote, Obama said the
chamber’s bill “is not perfect -- I would have preferred that it
include no exemptions.  But it mandates unprecedented
transparency in campaign spending, and it ensures that
corporations who spend money on American elections are
accountable first and foremost to the American people.”  
 He called on the Senate “to act swiftly” on the
legislation.  
 Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, and
Senate Rules Committee Chairman  Charles Schumer , a New York
Democrat, said they were committed to passing the bill so it can
take effect for the congressional elections in November.  
 Senator  John Cornyn  of Texas, chairman of the Senate
Republicans’ fundraising group, said he expects all of the
party’s 41 chamber members to combine to deny Democrats -- who
control 59 Senate votes -- the 60th vote they need to bring the
bill to the floor.  
 Cornyn said the bill was “designed to favor organized
labor and disadvantage the business community and others who
support Republicans. My hope is it will be DOA,” or dead on
arrival.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        