-- Canadian Dollar Falls for Fourth Day, Longest Losing Streak Since January
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-06-24T20:05:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/canada-dollar-falls-for-fourth-day-in-longest-losing-streak-since-january.html

          
          
             Canada’s dollar fell for a fourth
consecutive session amid declines in stocks and commodities as
concern the global economic recovery is faltering lifted such
traditional safety assets as the yen.  
 The yen rose against all of the 16 most-traded currencies
as U.S. Federal Reserve officials yesterday pledged to keep the
benchmark interest rate at a record low for an “extended
period” and signaled that European indebtedness may harm
American growth. Crude oil declined 0.2 percent and the MSCI
World index of shares fell for a third day.  
 “Poor economic data and fears from the European banking
have led to risk coming off and weakness in commodity
currencies,” said  Darren Richardson,  senior corporate dealer in
Toronto at CanadianForex Ltd., an online foreign-exchange
dealer. “This is weighing on the Canadian dollar.”  
 The currency depreciated 0.4 percent to C$1.0439 per U.S.
dollar at 4:04 p.m. in Toronto, compared with C$1.0397
yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys 95.80 U.S. cents. Its four-
day losing streak is the longest since Jan. 29.  
 The loonie has gained 8.3 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indices, the second-best
performance among its 10 developed-world counterparts. Canada is
hosting meetings that begin tomorrow of Group of Eight and Group
of 20 countries.  
 “The fear is that weaker U.S. data is posing a risk to the
Canadian economy,”  Camilla Sutton , director of currency
strategy at Bank of Nova Scotia, Canada’s third-largest lender,
said by phone from Toronto. “And the G-20 is really focused on
fiscal restraint as opposed to supporting growth. That probably
isn’t good for the growth currencies.”  
 ‘Limit the Downside’  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  declined 1.7 percent. The
 yield  on Canada’s 10-year bond touched 3.175 percent, the lowest
in more than a year. The price of the 3.5 percent security due
in June 2020 advanced as much as 48 cents to C$102.75.  
 The loonie is poised for a 1.8 percent decline this week,
after rising the two previous weeks.  
 “Support at C$1.0360 is expected to limit the downside”
in the U.S. dollar versus the Canadian dollar,  George Davis ,
chief technical analyst for fixed-income and currency strategy
in Toronto at Royal Bank of Canada, wrote in a note to clients.
“An hourly close above C$1.0410 would project greater gains
toward C$1.0452 and C$1.0516.”  
 The loonie is emerging as a reserve currency for central
bankers seeking alternatives to debt-laden governments in
Europe, the U.S. and Japan. Canada, the last member of the group
of Seven industrialized nations to enter the global recession,
was the first to recover, thanks partly to having the G-7’s
lowest debt-to-GDP ratio and the world’s soundest financial
system, according to the World Economic Forum.  
 International Reserves  
 Russia may add Australian and Canadian dollars to its
international reserves for the first time after fluctuations in
the U.S. currency and euro,  Alexei Ulyukayev , the first deputy
chairman of the nation’s central bank, said in an interview in
Moscow on June 15. UBS AG, the world’s second-largest foreign-
exchange trader, predicts the International Monetary Fund may
include the Canadian dollar in a basket of currencies it uses in
transactions.  
 Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , in a letter to his
G-20 counterparts, said he wants leaders to agree to a target of
reducing deficits by half by 2013, and to stabilize or begin
reducing their ratios of debt-to-output by 2016.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Kathy Lien, director of currency research at online currency trader GFT Forex, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about the European debt crisis and the outlook for the euro.
     Lien, speaking from Sydney, also discusses the appointment of Julia Gillard as Australia’s prime minister and its implications for the nation's currency, China's yuan policy, and the outlook for the New Zealand and Canadian dollars. Lien spoke before Gillard was sworn in as prime minister.(Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Craig Ferguson, a currency hedge fund manager at Antipodean Capital Management, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about his forecast for the Australian dollar.
     Ferguson, speaking from Melbourne, also discusses the implications of Julia Gillard's appointment as Australia's prime minister on the nation's currency and proposed mining profits tax, and the outlook for the yuan. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
