-- Catastrophe Bonds Slump as Hurricane Forecasts Spook Buyers
-- Hugh Son
-- 2010-06-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/catastrophe-bonds-slump-most-since-2008-as-storm-forecasts-spook-investors.html

          
          
                  June 24 (Bloomberg) --Catastrophe bonds, used by investors
to bet against natural disasters, have slumped the most since
2008 as forecasters predict a busier-than-usual Atlantic
hurricane season.  
 The  Swiss Re Cat Bond Price Return Index  fell 0.6 percent
on June 18, the biggest drop in 20 months for the benchmark,
which prices every Friday. The index has declined five straight
weeks and is at the lowest since October. Colorado State
University and Weather Services International boosted
predictions this month for the 2010 season on higher Atlantic
temperatures, which increase the chance a storm will develop.  
 “Investors have gotten spooked by these forecasts of a
very active hurricane season,” said  Peter Nakada , managing
director at Risk Management Solutions Inc., which builds models
estimating storm damage. “They’re saying, ‘I’d rather take
European wind risk than U.S. hurricane risk.’”  
 Insurers including  American International Group Inc.  and
Assurant Inc. sell the bonds as an alternative to reinsurance
for hurricanes and earthquakes. The U.S. National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration said last month the season may be
“active to extremely active” with 14 to 23 named storms. The
year’s first Atlantic tropical storm may form in the Gulf of
Mexico by June 27, forecasters said this week.  
 “Atlantic sea surface temperatures are currently at record
warm levels for June, even warmer than the freakishly active
season of 2005,” when Hurricane Katrina struck Louisiana,  Todd Crawford , chief meteorologist of WSI, said yesterday in a
 statement . “So it’s no surprise we’re seeing historically
unusual tropical wave development in the eastern Atlantic so
early in the season.”  
 Record Year  
 This year’s hurricane season may be the most active since
2005, which was the worst on record with more than 1,500 U.S.
deaths and $115 billion in damage, Moody’s Investors Service
said this month. The season begins June 1 and ends Nov. 30.  
 Investors may have found prices for the securities less
attractive after they posted a  record  5.2 percent gain in 2009
on a mild season that didn’t produce a named storm until Aug.
15, said  Brett Houghton , a fixed-income trader at Rochdale
Securities LLC. The Swiss Re index fell 7.3 percent in 2008 as
Hurricanes Ike and Gustav struck and  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.  failed.  
 Lehman had sold contracts to protect four catastrophe bonds
through so-called total return swaps, and the firm’s 2008
collapse spurred underwriters to back subsequent securities with
safer assets, contributing to last year’s rebound. There are
about $14 billion of the securities outstanding, according to
 Swiss Reinsurance Co.   
 AIG, Swiss Re  
 “There’s been quite a bit of new-issue supply over the
last six weeks,” pressuring prices, Houghton said.  
 Swiss Re, Allianz SE and AIG’s Chartis property-casualty
unit were among sellers of a total of about $2.4 billion in cat
bonds this year through early June, a 70 percent increase from
the same period in 2009.  
 Chartis issued $425 million in catastrophe bonds last month
to mitigate hurricane and earthquake risk. The bond’s $250
million slice will pay 8.25 percentage points more than three-
month Treasury bills. The second slice yields 6.25 points above
the benchmark. Fixed-income investors earn more than benchmark
rates for taking the risk they could lose their principal in the
event of a disaster that meets pre-defined conditions.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        