-- Champions Federer, Serena Williams Greet Queen Elizabeth II at Wimbledon
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-06-24T12:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/champions-federer-serena-williams-greet-queen-elizabeth-ii-at-wimbledon.html

          
          
             Defending champions  Roger Federer 
and  Serena Williams  greeted  Queen Elizabeth II  at the Wimbledon
tennis championships today.  
 The Queen, making her first visit to the All England Club
since 1977, also met last year’s finalist  Andy Roddick , five-
time champion  Venus Williams , third-seeded  Novak Djokovic , U.S.
Open finalist  Caroline Wozniacki  and former champions  Billie Jean King  and  Martina Navratilova .  
 Thousands of tennis fans applauded the Queen, wearing a
turquoise outfit and hat, as she walked from the practice courts
at Aorangi Terrace down to Courts 18 and 19. Accompanied by the
Duke of Kent, the president of  the All England Club , and its
Chairman  Tim Phillips , the Queen stopped at Court 14 where she
was introduced to young tennis players who are part of the
Wimbledon junior tennis initiative.  
 After lunch with current and former players, the Queen will
watch fourth-ranked  Andy Murray  of Britain play Finland’s  Jarkko Nieminen  on Centre Court from the Royal Box.  
 The Centre Court crowd rose and applauded the Queen as she
made her way into the Royal Box. She waved before sitting now.  
 Murray and Nieminen then put their bags down, put one arm
behind their back and bowed to loud cheers as they entered the
court.  
 The British monarch last visited the grass-court Grand Slam
event in southwest London when Virginia Wade won the women’s
title, the last Briton to do so.  Fred Perry  was the last British
man to win Wimbledon, in 1936.  
 Players had been talking about the visit in the days before
the monarch’s visit, and whether they should bow or curtsey when
they enter Centre Court.  
 Tradition  
 “Players will be invited but not obliged to bow or
curtsey,” the Club said in a statement. The tradition to bow or
curtsey in front of the Royal Box ended in 2003, with an
exception should Queen Elizabeth II or  Prince Charles  be in
attendance.  
 “For me, it’s just an honor to see the Queen in the Royal
Box,” 2008 champion  Rafael Nadal  said in a news conference
earlier in the week. “I would love to have the chance to say
hello to her,” added the Spaniard, who will face Robin Haase of
the Netherlands in the third match of the day on Centre Court.  
 Serena Williams won’t be able to execute the curtsey she
had been practising for the past few days as the All England
Club scheduled her match against Russia’s  Anna Chakvetadze  on
Court 2.  
 “My curtsey is really fun,” Williams, a 12-time major
champion, said in a news conference earlier in the week. “It’s
something that she’ll definitely never forget.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at Wimbledon through the London newsroom at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        