-- Chernobyl Legacy Fades as Eastern Europe Bets on Nuclear Power
-- Ladka Bauerova
-- 2010-06-24T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/chernobyl-legacy-fades-as-eastern-europe-bets-on-nuclear-power-expansion.html

          
          
             In the Polish village of Klempicz,
less than an  hour  from the German border,  Lech Wojcieszynski  is
hoping to bring the first atomic reactor to his country,
overcoming the  Chernobyl  disaster’s legacy.  
 “I remember Chernobyl very well, but how long ago was
that?” said Wojcieszynski, a local entrepreneur who arranged
meetings with residents and government officials responsible for
nuclear policy. “Technology has moved on to a completely
different level.”  
 Nuclear power is back in vogue in Eastern Europe 24 years
after the meltdown at the Chernobyl plant in Ukraine, the worst
nuclear accident in history, which blanketed the region with
radioactive dust and halted development of atomic power.
Klempicz is second on a list of 27 sites competing for the $11
billion project. A decision will be made at the end of the year
in the country where burning coal supplies 95 percent of energy.  
 Eight of the European Union’s 10 former communist members
are counting on safer technologies from companies like GE
Hitachi Nuclear Energy and Westinghouse Electric Co. LLC to cut
pollution and dependence on Russian gas. Opponents say locals,
who want the investment also because it will bring jobs, ignore
the risks of environmental damage, leaking and disposal, as well
as enormous construction costs at a time governments are cutting
back on social benefits and administrative spending.  
 “Poland needs to take a step back and ask itself whether
it really needs nuclear power,” said Katarzyna Guzek, a
spokeswoman on climate and energy with Greenpeace in Poland. She
says emissions could be reduced more cheaply by improving energy
efficiency and investing in renewable technologies.  
 Soviet Design  
 Poland is not alone in its renewed nuclear power drive. The
Baltic states of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania want to build a
new nuclear plant to replace the Soviet-designed Ignalina
station, which was shut last year under a 2004 EU accession pact
because of similarities to Chernobyl.  
 To the south, the Czech Republic and Slovakia plan to
expand their existing facilities. Bulgaria, which also closed
reactors as a condition for joining the bloc in 2007, is looking
to re-establish the industry and Romania aims for two new
reactors at the Cernavoda plant near the Black Sea.  
 With tens of billions of dollars at stake, the eastern
European projects may help drive growth in a region where  per-
capita  gross domestic product, based on purchasing power parity,
is less than half of the 16-member euro zone, analysts say.  
 Dependence on Russia  
 Governments are also trying to avoid getting caught up in
another shutoff of Russian gas, like the one that left Bulgaria
and Slovakia with no supplies during Russia’s dispute with
Ukraine in January 2009 and forced others in the region to
ration fuel.  
 Belarus, which lies east of Poland alongside Ukraine, on
June 22 accused OAO Gazprom, Russia’s gas export monopoly, of
starting a “gas war,” raising the risk of another shutoff to
Europe. Russia’s OAO Gazprom said yesterday it resumed supplies
after the two sides settled financial differences.  
 For companies like Westinghouse and France’s  Areva SA , the
plans offer a foothold in Eastern Europe. Among local companies,
 PGE SA  and  CEZ AS , the largest power producers in Poland and the
Czech Republic, stand to benefit the most from the renewed
interest in nuclear power.  
 CEZ is negotiating with Areva, Westinghouse and ZAO
Atomstroyexport of Russia to double its two-reactor plant at
Temelin at a cost of $8 billion, and will decide within two
years whether to add a fifth reactor at its Dukovany plant.  
 Raising the Share  
 CEZ also owns 9.2 percent of Romania’s  Cernavoda , now under
construction, and 49 percent of a joint venture with Slovakia’s
JESS, which plans to add two reactors in Jaslovske Bohunice. It
wants to raise the share of nuclear power to 25 percent from 15
percent by 2050.  
 “Few markets are really open to global competition, and
Eastern Europe is one of them,” said  Alex Barnett  at Jefferies
International Ltd. in Paris.  
 Opposition to CEZ’s plans comes not from residents fearing
atomic power, but from locals who complain the expansion will
further spoil the picturesque Bohemian countryside with miles of
high-voltage wires crisscrossing fields.  
 “We understand that this is how the world is, but why do
we have to be the ones to pay the price for the common good?”
said  Jiri Brt , the deputy mayor of Skalice, about 35 kilometers
from Temelin. “There’s always someone who is unlucky, and in
this case it’s us.”  
 Lobbying the Locals  
 Wojcieszynski’s group is working with the provincial
government to organize a visit to France for local residents.
And in the Krokowa township on the Baltic Sea, whose Zarnowiec
district is the frontrunner for the plant, the mayor is creating
partnerships with German cities that host nuclear facilities.  
 Pledges by governments to cut carbon dioxide emissions,
combined with rising demand for electricity, doesn’t leave them
many options. And while wind power, hydroelectricity and gas are
among greener choices, nuclear power must remain the bedrock of
energy production, said Petr Zavodsky, CEZ’s director of nuclear
construction, in an interview in Prague.  
 “Nuclear plants are the most profitable sources of energy
in the long term,” Zavodsky said. Also, “we want to be more
independent.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nathaniel Espino  in Warsaw 
 nespino@bloomberg.net 
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Petr Zavodsky, CEZ’s director of nuclear construction  
                       
                         
                           Vladimir Weiss 
                         
                         Petr Zavodsky, director of power plant construction at CEZ AS, speaks during an interview in Prague. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Petr Zavodsky, director of power plant construction at CEZ AS, speaks during an interview in Prague. Photographer: Vladimir Weiss  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
