-- China Says Yuan Revaluation Won't Solve U.S. Trade, Unemployment Problems
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-24T07:55:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/china-says-yuan-revaluation-won-t-solve-u-s-trade-unemployment-problems.html

          
          
             U.S. economic woes can’t be solved
by a revaluation of the yuan and American leaders will “help no
one” by politicizing the issue, Chinese Foreign Ministry
Spokesman Qin Gang said.  
 The comments come as U.S. lawmakers urge President  Barack Obama  to keep pressuring China even after the June 19
announcement that it was lifting a two-year policy of pegging
its currency to the U.S. dollar. U.S. Commerce Secretary  Gary Locke  reiterated this week the yuan is undervalued.  
 “The appreciation of the yuan cannot bring balanced
trade,” Qin told reporters in Beijing. Yuan appreciation
“cannot help to solve U.S. problems of unemployment,
overconsumption and low savings rate.”  
 Democrats and Republicans in Congress said yesterday they
will press legislation to let companies seek tariffs on imports
to compensate for advantages a weak currency gives Chinese
producers. Lawmakers including Senator  Charles Schumer  said
during the Senate Finance Committee hearing yesterday the
government has not done enough and Locke should move to levy
tariffs now.  
 The yuan was little changed at 6.8135 as of 12:27 p.m. in
Hong Kong, little changed from yesterday. It has gained 0.19
percent this week and touched 6.7958 on June 21, the strongest
level since the central bank unified official and market
exchange rates at the end of 1993. The currency may climb to 6.7
per dollar by Dec. 31, according to a Bloomberg analyst survey.  
 Pressure on China to act further on its currency also comes
ahead of the Group of 20 summit June 26-27 Toronto, which
Chinese President  Hu Jintao  will attend.  
 -- Michael Forsythe  in Beijing. Editors:  Patrick Harrington ,
 John Brinsley   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Forsythe  in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Kathy Lien, director of currency research at online currency trader GFT Forex, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about the European debt crisis and the outlook for the euro.
     Lien, speaking from Sydney, also discusses the appointment of Julia Gillard as Australia’s prime minister and its implications for the nation's currency, China's yuan policy, and the outlook for the New Zealand and Canadian dollars. Lien spoke before Gillard was sworn in as prime minister.(Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Craig Ferguson, a currency hedge fund manager at Antipodean Capital Management, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about his forecast for the Australian dollar.
     Ferguson, speaking from Melbourne, also discusses the implications of Julia Gillard's appointment as Australia's prime minister on the nation's currency and proposed mining profits tax, and the outlook for the yuan. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Jing Ulrich, chairwoman for China equities and commodities at JPMorgan Chase & Co., talks about China's decision to end the yuan's peg to the U.S. dollar and the outlook for the currency. 
     Ulrich also discusses Chinese stocks, the country's economy and her investment strategy for China. Ulrich talks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
