-- China's Floods Kill 211 People, Displacing 2.4 Million in Three Provinces
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-24T05:10:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/china-s-floods-kill-211-people-displacing-2-4-million-in-three-provinces.html

          
          
             The death toll from flooding in
southern China rose to at least 211 people, with 119 missing, as
the government stepped up evacuation efforts and the weather
bureau forecast more heavy rain today.  
 Flooding may intensify in the provinces of  Jiangxi ,  Hunan 
and  Fujian  as more downpours are forecast to hit the region, the
 China Meteorological Administration  said today. Local
authorities should be prepared for flooding and landslides, the
agency said. The storms have affected almost 30 million people
in 10 provinces, with at least 2.4 million displaced so far.  
 President Hu Jintao and Premier Wen Jiabao this week called
for all-out efforts to save people trapped by the flooding after
the storms led to the collapse of a dyke in Jiangxi province.
More than 15,000 soldiers and civilians have been dispatched to
help with rescue and relief efforts, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported.  
 Shi Jinxiang, a villager from Luozhen Township, was trapped
on the roof of her home for a day and a half with her parents
and child after the Fuhe river breached its banks in Jiangxi
province, Xinhua said. The family was without food for more than
10 hours, the news agency said.  
 Regions in Jiangxi province near the Fuhe river are
forecast to receive 60 millimeters to 80 millimeters of rain
today, local news website Jiangxi News reported. The river has
burst its banks twice this month, forcing the evacuation of
about 100,000 residents, Xinhua said.  
 Worst Flooding  
 The flooding is the most severe to hit Jiangxi in 50 years,
with more than 7.9 million people in the province affected, the
Jiangnan Metropolis News newspaper, based in the province,
reported yesterday.  
 Neighboring Hunan province is forecast to have the “widest
and strongest” rain today, Rednet, a news website based in the
province,  said , citing the Hunan Provincial Meteorological
Bureau. A total of 8.3 million people in Hunan are affected by
flooding, the website reported.  
 He Dingli and his wife, both almost 70 years old, barely
escaped being washed away by flood waters in Hunan’s Anren
Township, the Changsha Evening News, based in the province,
reported. The couple were awoken by rescuers and were just 100
meters away from their home when they watched it swept away by
flood waters, the newspaper reported.  
 The storms have forced the evacuation of 2.4 million people
as of 4 p.m. yesterday, the  Ministry of Civil Affairs  said
yesterday on its website. Direct economic losses are estimated
at 43.3 billion yuan ($6.35 billion), including the collapse of
215,000 homes and the complete destruction of crops on 277,800
hectares of land, the ministry said.  
 For Related News and Information:
Stories on natural disasters in China: TNI CHINA NAT BN <GO>
Top Chinese Stories: TOP CHINA <GO>
For the global weather platform: WETR <GO>  
          
          


  


        