-- China's Stocks May Rise 17% in Second Half of 2010, Shenyin & Wanguo Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-24T08:12:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/china-s-stocks-may-rise-17-in-second-half-of-2010-shenyin-wanguo-says.html

          
          
             China’s stocks, Asia’s worst
performer this year, may rise 17 percent in the second half
because the government won’t step up measures to rein in
economic growth, according to Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.  
 The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index may rebound to the
3,000 level as urbanization and the government’s push to move
manufacturing industries into poorer regions increases
investment, said  Yuan Yi , a strategist at the brokerage, at a
conference in Shanghai today.  
 The  Shanghai Composite  slipped 0.1 percent to 2,566.75 at
the close, adding to a 22 percent loss for the year on concern
government measures to slow gains in housing prices and the
European debt crisis will hurt growth in the world’s third-
largest economy. The decline has driven down the gauge’s
valuation to 15.1 times estimated earnings, the lowest since
February 2009, according to weekly  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “The acceleration of urbanization will boost domestic
demand and push forward regional economic development,” said
Yuan. “That’ll help push up valuations of investment-related
companies.”  
 Shenyin & Wanguo, voted China’s most influential research
unit by New Fortune magazine last year, joins BNP Paribas,
Morgan Stanley and AMP Capital Investors Ltd. in boosting their
outlook for the nation’s stocks after the central bank signaled
last weekend that it will loosen the yuan’s peg to the dollar.  
 The Shanghai-based brokerage recommends investors buy
shares of cement companies, steelmakers and paper manufactures,
including  Anhui Conch Cement Co. , Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. and
 Shandong Sun Paper Industry Co.   
 Urbanization  
 The process of people moving into the cities may speed up
in the second half after the government announced policies to
further develop the central and western parts of the nation,
said Yuan.  
 China last month said it will double investment in the
western province of Xinjiang and raise its per capita gross
domestic product to the national average by 2015. Investment in
Xinjiang from 2011 through 2015 could run to 2 trillion yuan
($293.6 billion), according to the Shanghai Securities News.  
 The municipality of western Chongqing plans to introduce a
1 trillion yuan stimulus plan this year to cover the transport
and energy industries, the official Xinhua News Agency reported
in April, citing the local government.  
 The yuan may appreciate 3 percent in 2010, while gross
domestic product grows at 10.2 percent this year, the brokerage
said.  
 Economic growth will slow to 9.6 percent in the third
quarter and 9 percent in the following three months, from 10.5
percent in the second quarter, according to as many as 21
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The economy expanded 11.9
percent in the first quarter, the fastest pace in almost three
years.  
 No Double Dip  
 “Growth of 9 percent to 10 percent is a very healthy level
for China, which isn’t a pessimistic figure,”  Li Huiyong , the
economist at Shenyin & Wanguo, said at the conference. “I don’t
see the risk of a double-dip recession.”  
 The government will build 270 million square meters of low-
income housing this year, which will partly offset the crackdown
against speculation in the property market, he said.  
 -- Zhang Shidong . Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Reinie Booysen   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7014 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 22 (Bloomberg) -- Uri Landesman, president of Platinum Partners Value Arbitrage, and Katherine Schapiro, a portfolio manager at Sentinel Asset Management, talk about the outlook for emerging-market stocks including China. 
     Landesman and Schapiro also discuss their investment strategies. They speak with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (This is an excerpt from the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
