-- China Said to Boost Soy Purchases on Improved Profit Outlook for Crushers
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-24T06:34:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/china-said-to-boost-soybean-purchases-as-local-livestock-feed-prices-gain.html

          
          
             China, the world’s biggest soybean importer,
increased purchases in the past two weeks to between 17 and 25 cargoes,
or as much as 1.5 million metric tons, as crushers expect processing
 margins  to improve, according to a range of estimates from three
executives familiar with the trade.  
 The cargoes were sourced mostly from Latin America except for
two from the U.S. Pacific Northwest, they said. Most shipments will
be from July to September, with a few in October and November, said
the people who declined to be identified as the transactions are
private. Chinese buyers had curbed buying in recent weeks as port
inventories surged, they said. Each cargo weighs about 60,000 tons.  
 Demand for soybean meal, a livestock feed made from the oilseed,
is recovering in China even as stockpiles climb, according to
grain.gov.cn, a state-run researcher. Bigger crushers are betting
they can boost market share as smaller companies pare operations,
the people said. The country may buy 47.5 million tons of soybeans
in 2009-2010, said the China National Grain & Oils Information Center.  
 “China’s cash prices of soybean meal have increased by 50 yuan
to 150 yuan ($22) a ton in the past week as the market expects demand
to strengthen,” grain.gov.cn, owned by the information center, said
in an e-mailed report. “International and domestic markets are
improving, so prices of soybean products may continue to recover.”  
 Dalian Prices  
 Soybean meal for January delivery on the Dalian Commodity Exchange
has climbed 3.5 percent to 2,844 yuan per ton since touching 2,748
yuan on June 11, which matched the lowest level for the most-active
contract in three months.  
 Demand for soybean oil in China remains weak relative to
consumption of meal, the people said. The government will likely
maintain an embargo on imports of Argentine soybean oil because
domestic supply is ample and the country has made few concessions
on the conditions requested by Chinese negotiators, they said.  
 Increased buying may help boost Chicago soybean prices. The
contract for November delivery advanced 0.4 percent to $9.27 a bushel
today. The most active month has lost 12 percent this year.  
 Overall, inbound shipments of soybeans to China may fall to 3.5
million to 4 million tons in August from about 5 million tons in
previous months after some crushers canceled imports on surging
arrivals, according to grain.gov.cn. Soybean meal consumption may
rise in the second half because of better hog demand, it said.  
 Soybean imports may “moderate” in the second half after large
shipments this year and will not be boosted by the easing of the yuan
peg to the dollar, Barclays Capital said in a report dated June 21.
The move to relax the peg may not affect imports of agricultural
commodities significantly in the short term because an appreciation
is likely to be gradual, the bank said.  
 Qingdao Port  
 Qingdao Port, the biggest in Shandong province, is congested by
ships arriving to unload soybeans, a person with direct knowledge
said about two weeks ago. As many as nine more ships, each carrying
about 60,000 tons, were scheduled to unload this month, in addition
to two or three that had been processed, said the person then. Normally,
there would be five, he said.  
 Purchases were  19.6  million tons in the first five months, up
from 17.4 million tons in the same period a year ago, according to
customs. Imports may climb to 47.5 million tons in 2009-2010 from
41.1 million tons the previous year, the grain center said June 2.
That’s more than half of global exports, according to U.S. Department
of Agriculture data.  
 -- William Bi . Editor:  James Poole   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 William Bi  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7578 or
 wbi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        