-- China to End Ban on Canada Beef Imports Seven Years After Mad Cow Disease
-- Whitney McFerron
-- 2010-06-25T15:20:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/china-to-resume-certain-canadian-beef-imports-in-stages-after-hu-meeting.html

          
          
             China agreed to resume beef imports
from Canada, seven years after banning the meat on mad cow
disease concerns, according to a statement on Canadian Prime
Minister  Stephen Harper ’s website.  
 Imports will resume in stages starting with boneless beef
from animals under 30 months of age and beef tallow for
industrial use, the  statement  said. The announcement was made
after discussions between Harper and Chinese President  Hu Jintao 
in Ottawa.  
 China, the world’s fourth-largest beef consumer, barred
Canadian beef in May 2003 following the discovery of bovine
spongiform encephalopathy, or mad cow disease, according to the
Canadian Cattlemen’s Association, a Calgary, Alberta-based trade
group.  
 Canada may export C$50 million ($48.1 million) in tallow
and boneless beef annually during the first stage of the
agreement, and exports may rise to C$110 million “once full
access is established to include bone-in products,” the
industry group said.  
 “The agreement marks the first time China has resumed
imports of beef from a country that has had a case of bovine
spongiform encephalopathy,” the group said in a  statement . The
agreement shows China’s “confidence in Canada’s strong
regulatory controls,” the association said.  
 Canada is the world’s sixth-largest beef exporter,
according to U.S. Department of Agriculture data.  
 U.S. Talks  
 The U.S. may begin talks soon with Chinese officials on
lifting a beef ban in place since 2003, according to USDA
spokesman  Caleb Weaver .  Jim Miller , the head of the USDA’s
Foreign Agricultural Service, has received a letter from  Wei Chuanzhong , a vice minister at China’s quality inspection
agency, indicating an interest in lifting restrictions, Weaver
said June 9.  
 Scientists have said humans who eat certain parts of
animals infected with mad cow may contract variant Cruetzfeldt-
Jakob disease, a similar brain-wasting ailment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        