-- China Bank Debt Repackaging, Loan Growth Raises Risk of Crisis, Fitch Says
-- Katrina Nicholas
-- 2010-06-24T07:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/china-bank-debt-repackaging-loan-growth-raises-risk-of-crisis-fitch-says.html

          
          
             China’s  record loan growth  and the
repackaging and selling of debt by its banks has raised credit
risks “considerably,” and might lead to another financial
crisis, Fitch Ratings Ltd. said.  
 “Credit is disappearing from bank balance sheets,
resulting in a pervasive understatement of credit growth and
credit exposure,”  Charlene Chu , Fitch’s senior director of
financial institutions for China, said at a conference in
Singapore today. “But credit risk has not disappeared, merely
been transferred to investors.”  
 China’s government unleashed a record 9.59 trillion yuan
($1.4 trillion) lending boom last year to stimulate the economy
amid the global credit crunch. The nation’s banking regulator
has told lenders to report on their risk exposure by the end of
this month to help prevent a pileup of bad loans.  
 Growing numbers of Chinese banks are entering increasingly
 complex transactions  designed to circumvent regulations,
according to Fitch. They involve banks selling loans to a trust
company, which then creates a wealth-management product around
them and gives these back to the bank to distribute. Banks then
sell on the product to investors and with the money, pay off the
loan, the risk assessor said.  
 “When we talk to banks about this they say, ‘We’ve sold on
the loan and we have no exposure. If the product goes bad, it’s
the investors who’ll wear the loss,’” Chu said. “Our view is,
it sounds a lot like Lehman minibonds.”  
 Banks in Hong Kong and Singapore sold credit products
guaranteed by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., known as minibonds,
which crashed after the U.S. firm’s bankruptcy in 2008.
Thousands of individual investors lost money on the notes,
leading Hong Kong to crack down on sales techniques.  
 Less Data Flow  
 Chinese banks’ unwillingness to disclose loan information
means the extent of problems could be worse than thought, Chu
said. “Chinese banks have realized we’re tracking this and have
begun to cut back data flow,” she said. “Disclosure about this
issue is extremely poor and getting worse.”  
 Historically, Chinese banks have posted an average expected
recovery rate of 34 percent on corporate non-performing loans,
despite 72 percent of loans being supposedly backed by
collateral, guarantees or pledged assets, a Fitch analysis of
the 2009 financial statements of listed banks shows. Loans are
typically termed non-performing after being in default for three
months, depending on contract terms.  
 “Poor legal framework guiding such activity means
unwinding these transactions in the event of a default could get
very messy, particularly as the transactions become increasingly
convoluted,” Chu said.  
 “Accelerating loan growth has considerably raised credit
risk exposure,” Chu said. “Future asset quality deterioration
is a near-certainty.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        