-- Taiwan to Sign China Pact, Deepening Trade Ties as Relations Thaw Under Ma
-- Janet Ong
-- 2010-06-24T11:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/china-taiwan-to-hold-talks-in-chongqing-city-sign-trade-accord-next-week.html

          
          
             Taiwan  said it will sign a trade
accord with China next week after more than a year of talks, as
warming cross-strait relations pave the way for deeper
investment ties with the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  
 The two sides have completed details of an “early
harvest” list of items that will be the first to enjoy tariff
reductions under the trade agreement,  Kao Koong-lian , vice
chairman of the Taipei-based Straits Exchange Foundation, said
today. A fifth round of cross-strait talks will be held from
June 28 to June 30 in the Chinese city of Chongqing, where the
trade pact will be signed on June 29.  
 Taiwan’s benchmark stock index has jumped 19 percent in the
past year as President  Ma Ying-jeou  pushes for an accord with
China, its biggest trading partner and No. 1 investment
destination. The island, regarded by the mainland a territory
that it aims to reunite by force if necessary, is trying to
avoid being disadvantaged after a Chinese trade agreement with
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations began this year.  
 The China-Taiwan trade agreement is “clearly the first
hurdle that Taiwan has cleared,” said  Tony Phoo , a Taipei-based
economist for Standard Chartered Plc. Beyond that, Taiwan will
need to expand its trade links and sign agreements with other
Southeast Asian countries, he said.  
 Ma abandoned his predecessor’s pro-independence stance
after taking office two years ago, seeking to repair ties with
China and boost an economy that has been excluded from the 58
regional trade agreements Ma estimates were in place as of 2009.  
 Initial Agreement  
 China and Taiwan reached an initial agreement on tariff
reductions after talks in Beijing on June 13 on the Economic
Cooperation Framework Agreement, or ECFA.  
 “The signing of the ECFA signifies the door is open and
will lead the way for further discussions on trade and
cooperation on financial services,” said  Cheng Cheng-mount , a
Taipei-based economist at Citigroup Inc.  
 Kao met this morning with his Chinese counterpart,  Zheng Lizhong , vice chairman of the Association for Relations Across
the Taiwan Straits, to discuss the trade agreement details and
to prepare for the meeting next week. The two sides are also
scheduled to sign an agreement on intellectual property rights
protection.  
 China will cut tariffs on 539 items from Taiwan worth $13.8
billion, or about 16 percent of Taiwan’s 2009 exports to the
mainland, Zheng said today. Taiwan will cut tariffs on 267 items
from China worth $2.86 billion, or about 10.5 percent of the
country’s shipments to Taiwan in 2009.  
 Yuan Services  
 The reductions on items including petrochemicals, auto
parts, textiles and machinery will be implemented in three
stages over two years, by which time tariffs will be brought to
zero, Zheng said.  
 Taiwanese banks will also be allowed to offer yuan services
to the island’s firms in China, Zheng said. The banks must have
one year’s experience and be profitable to qualify, he said.
Some 26 Chinese banks offered loans of more than 230 billion
yuan ($34 billion) to Taiwanese firms last year, Zheng said.  
 While the tariff cuts would lead to savings for businesses
and boost investment “over time,” the bank ruling won’t result
in “anything solid until two years later,”  Standard
Chartered ’s Phoo said. “Short-term wise, it’s still very much a
preparation stage for Taiwanese banks looking to the Chinese
market.”  
 The opposition Democratic Progressive Party is organizing a
rally to protest the accord on June 26, saying the agreement
will give the government in Beijing too much clout over Taiwan,
and may cost jobs by allowing cheaper Chinese goods to flood the
island’s market.  
 Export Market  
 China and Hong Kong combined account for about 40 percent
of Taiwan’s exports. Taiwanese companies have already invested
an estimated $150 billion in China since 1991.  
 Taiwan and China agreed to boost cooperation in fishing,
agriculture and industrial goods at the fourth cross-strait
talks in December. In November, they signed three memoranda of
understanding to ease access to each other’s banking, securities
and insurance industries.  
 Trade between the mainland and Taiwan increased 68 percent
in the first four months of 2010 compared with the same period
last year, and Taiwan investment rose 44.7 percent, Tang Wei,
head of Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macau affairs at China’s Ministry
of Commerce, said this month.  
 The China-Taiwan trade accord “will set the stage for more
capital inflows to Taiwan,” said  Wai Ho Leong , a regional
economist at Barclays Plc in Singapore. “For a long time, the
inflow of funds has very much been one-way from Taiwan to China.
A key priority for the Ma administration is regional
integration, starting with China.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Ong  at   jong3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Taiwan President Ma Ying-jeou has been pushing for an accord to bolster export-dependent Taiwan's economy. Photographer: Maurice Tsai/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
