-- Christie Summons New Jersey Republicans to Meeting to Ensure Budget Votes
-- Terrence Dopp
-- 2010-06-24T19:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/christie-summons-republicans-to-meeting-to-ensure-new-jersey-budget-votes.html

          
          
             New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
called Republican lawmakers to a meeting to shore up support for
his $29.4 billion budget, as objections from at least two party
members jeopardized passage of his first spending plan.  
 Christie held the breakfast meeting today at Drumthwacket,
the governor’s mansion in Princeton, with Republican Assembly
and Senate budget committee members and senior staff. The
governor, a Republican who took office Jan. 19, used the
gathering to try to rally support, said two people who were in
attendance and declined to be identified because they aren’t
authorized to speak about it.  
 “It was a meeting to express both thanks for their work so
far in getting this very difficult budget to this point and a
discussion of how to get through these final, critical steps for
passage,” Christie’s spokesman  Michael Drewniak  said in an
interview. He declined to comment further on what took place
during the meeting.  
 The meeting came a day after Assemblyman  Michael Patrick Carroll , a Republican from Morristown, said he won’t support the
budget because it doles out school aid disproportionately to
urban districts. Republican Assemblywoman  Alison Littell McHose 
also said she won’t vote for the plan because it was designed to
“attract Democratic support” at the expense of middle-class
communities.  
 Vote Count  
 Republicans control 33 of the 80 Assembly seats, leaving
them eight votes short of the 41 needed for the spending plan to
pass. Under a deal brokered during budget talks, Democrats
agreed to provide eight votes to ensure passage. They have no
plans to give more if Republicans fail to get all their members’
backing, Assembly Majority Leader  Joseph Cryan  said.  
 Carroll, whose district includes Christie’s hometown of
Mendham Township, said he didn’t attend the meeting and his
opposition hasn’t changed.  
 “I wasn’t invited,” he said in a telephone interview. “I
have no reason to change my position.”  
 McHose, of Sparta, said in a text message sent from her
mobile phone to Bloomberg News today that she wasn’t invited by
Christie and remains opposed to the budget.  
 The Senate budget committee approved the spending plan 7-6
late yesterday, setting it up for a vote in the full house. The
Assembly budget panel is scheduled to debate it today. Both
houses plan to take up the measure June 28. State law requires a
shutdown of nonessential services if a spending plan isn’t in
place by July 1, the start of the fiscal year.  
 Christie, 47, proposed a  budget  that would cut aid to
public schools by $820 million, reduce funding for
municipalities by $445 million and skip the state’s $3 billion
payment to its pension funds.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        