-- Christodoulou Says European Loans Helps Greece to Focus, Avoid a Default
-- Simone Meier
-- 2010-06-24T13:07:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/christodoulou-says-european-loans-helps-greece-to-focus-avoid-a-default.html

          
          
             Petros Christodoulou , head of
Greece’s debt agency, said the European Union loan package is
giving the country leeway to focus on its fiscal-consolidation
measures and there’s no reason to expect a default.  
 “The package we received gives us the luxury not to think
about it at this stage,” Christodoulou said at “The Sovereign
Debt Briefing” in London hosted by Bloomberg Link, referring to
potential future debt sales. “No one at the moment is looking
at a restructuring in  Greece , no one in Greece, no one outside
Greece.”  
 Moody’s Investors Service cut Greece’s credit rating by
four steps to junk on June 14, citing “substantial” risks to
economic growth from the austerity measures tied to the rescue
package from the EU and the International Monetary Fund. Greece
has cut spending, raised taxes and reduced wages to tackle a
budget deficit that swelled to 13.6 percent of gross domestic
product last year, more than four times the EU limit.  
 Christodoulou declined to say when Greece will start
issuing bonds again.  
 “It’s difficult to say,” Christodoulou said. “I can’t
make a forward-looking comment on that.”  
 Extra Yield  
 Luxembourg Finance Minister  Luc Frieden  said the EU loan
package to Greece is “enough for the time being” and that the
country “won’t default.”  
 “We stand ready to support Greece if something exceptional
goes wrong,” he said in a Bloomberg Television interview at the
conference. “Greece is doing the right thing and it will
manage” to meet its targets “without help.”  
 The extra yield  investors  demand to hold 10-year Greek debt
instead of the benchmark German bunds rose nine basis points to
781 basis points. That’s the most since May 7, before the aid
package was announced, based on close-of-day data.  
 Credit-default swaps on Greece rose 38 basis points to an
all-time high of 970 basis points, according to CMA DataVision.  
 Greek bonds are the worst performers in the euro region
this year, falling 19 percent, according indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. German bonds returned 6.5 percent.  
 Asked if he favors a ban on naked short selling of credit-
default swaps on euro-region government bonds, Christodoulou
said the market should be “properly regulated.” Naked short
selling involves selling a security without being in possession
of it.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden talks about the prospect of further support for Greece from the European Union.
     Frieden, speaking on the sidelines of a Bloomberg Link briefing in London, also discusses Europe's sovereign debt crisis and austerity measures across the continent. He talks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
