-- Claimants Who May Sue Over Chinese Drywall Remain Uncounted, Judge Says
-- William McQuillen
-- 2010-06-24T22:05:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/claimants-who-may-sue-over-chinese-drywal-remain-uncounted-judge-says.html

          
          
             Courts are still unsure how many
claimants will sue  USG Corp.  and Knauf Group over defective
drywall as they seek to determine the magnitude of the
litigation, said a federal judge who is overseeing the cases.  
 U.S. District Judge  Eldon Fallon  said today during a court
conference in New Orleans that his rulings have resolved only 10
of what could be 40,000 claims. The court is using various
methods to determine the “whole census” of parties to the
litigation, he said.  
 Those cases, part of coordinated litigation over allegedly
defective drywall, are intended as a bellwether to help
determine property damage issues in other cases against
manufacturers. Two of the bellwether claims settled this week
before trial.  
 Under that settlement, Knauf Plasterboard Tianjin Co.
agreed to pay for removal and replacement of the dry wall from
one home and repairs to the electrical system, as well as
$40,000 for moving, rent, storage, and personal items. In the
other claim, Knauf agreed to pay $20,175 to an apartment owner
for lost rental income pending a six-month inspection of 21
units allegedly damaged by the drywall. The company also agreed
to remove and replace the drywall and replace wiring.  
 In the first jury trial in the U.S. over defective drywall,
a state court panel in Miami last week said a Florida family
suffered $2.5 million in damages as a result of defective
drywall.  
 The case is In re Chinese-Manufactured Drywall Products
Liability Litigation, 2:09-md-02047, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in federal court in New Orleans at
 allenmct@gmail.com .  
          
          


  


        