-- Colombia-Venezuela Trade Fight `A Blessing' for Santos' 6% Growth Goal
-- Helen Murphy
-- 2010-06-24T20:53:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/colombia-venezuela-trade-fight-a-blessing-for-santos-6-growth-goal.html

          
          
             Colombia’s trade  spat with Venezuela
is “a blessing in disguise” that may help President-elect  Juan Manuel Santos  achieve his goal of quickening economic growth to
6 percent a year, said  David Duarte , an analyst at research
company 4Cast Inc.  
 Colombia’s economy  expanded  faster than expected in the
first quarter, the statistics agency said today. Gross domestic
product grew 4.4 percent from a year earlier, beating a 3.6
percent median estimate of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Santos, who said he wants to mend ties with President  Hugo Chavez  after being elected by a landslide on June 20, has
pledged to reach the 6 percent annual growth target within two
years of taking office in August. He plans to do so while
creating 2.4 million jobs and expanding the housing,
infrastructure and oil and mining industries.  
 “The trade break was a blessing in disguise,” said Duarte
in a phone interview from New York. “Colombia’s growth is now
much more organic and domestically based.”  
 South America’s fourth-largest economy is emerging slower
from the global financial crisis than its regional neighbors.
The International Monetary Fund estimates GDP will expand 2.2
percent this year, slower than every country except recession-
plagued Venezuela. The government on June 15 raised to 3
percent, from 2.5 percent, its 2010 growth forecast.  
 The yield on Colombia’s local bonds fell to their lowest
level since Dec. 1 after today’s GDP report. The yield on the
benchmark 11 percent bonds due in July 2020 fell six basis
points to 7.88 percent at 12:59 p.m. New York time. The peso
rose 0.19 percent to 1892.05 per U.S. dollar.  
 The slowdown in bilateral trade with Venezuela reduced
demand for consumer goods, limiting inflation and allowing
policy makers to stimulate the domestic economy by lowering
borrowing costs, Duarte said.  
 ‘Warmonger’  
 Relations have been strained since March 2008 when Santos,
as defense minister, ordered a raid into Ecuador that killed
 Raul Reyes , the second-in-command of the Revolutionary Armed
Forces of Colombia, the country’s largest guerrilla group.  
 Chavez, who has called Santos a “warmonger” and threat to
regional peace, ordered troops to Venezuela’s border with
Colombia in response to the attack on his ally. He then cut
trade ties after President  Alvaro Uribe  agreed last year to
expand U.S. access to seven military bases.  
 Exports to Venezuela  plunged  69 percent in April from the
same month a year ago. Before relations soured, Venezuela was
Colombia’s biggest export market after the U.S.  
 Jumpstarting Diplomacy  
 The peso fell 0.3 percent to 1,895.68 per dollar yesterday.
The peso has risen 7.8 percent against the dollar this year, the
best performer among seven Latin American currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  
 “Diplomacy and respect will be the backbone of our
international relations,” Santos, 58, said after winning 69
percent of the vote against 28 percent for former Bogota mayor
 Antanas Mockus . “In conflicting relations there are always two
choices: to look back in anger or to open spaces of cooperation
for the future.”  
 The fall in exports to Venezuela was  offset  by a 98 percent
increase in exports last year to the U.S. and a 172 percent jump
in exports to China, spurred by a rise in oil export revenue as
crude prices recovered.  
 Santos is likely to reach his growth target even if he
fails to restore trade relations with Venezuela, said  Alberto Bernal , a fixed income analyst with Bulltick Capital Markets in
Miami.  
 “If Venezuela starts buying from Colombia again we could
add another percentage point to the economy, but it’s not the
end of the world for Colombia without it,” Bernal said.  
 Lagging the Region  
 Bertrand Delgado , a senior economist at Roubini Global
Economics LLC in New York, said Santos must improve relations
with Venezuela and maintain loose fiscal and monetary policy in
order to meet his growth target. He forecasts GDP will expand up
to 3.5 percent this year if a global slowdown does not emerge.  
 “Colombia is looking for new export markets, but that
takes a while,” Delgado said.  
 Colombia’s economy, after emerging from recession last
year, grew 3.4 percent in the fourth quarter, according to a
revised year-on-year estimate today using the base year of 2005
instead of 2000.  
 Mining and commodities industry grew 13 percent in the
first quarter, while the agriculture and fishing sector
contracted 1.3 percent. Investment during the quarter rose 8
percent from a year ago, while spending grew 4 percent. Exports
fell 6.3 percent.  
 Policy makers cut interest rates from a record 10 percent
in November 2008 to 3 percent now, helping stimulate bank
lending and consumer spending.  
 Colombia’s  retail  sales rose 7.9 percent in April from a
year earlier, while industrial output grew 7.6 percent.  
 “What motors the economy is household spending, and that’s
increasing,” said  Julian Cardenas , chief economist at Bogota-
based brokerage Corredores Asociados SA. “The economy will lag
behind Chile, Brazil and Peru, but that’s because it’s not as
open as theirs.”  
 New Finance Chief  
 Santos, who has served as finance and trade minister, also
plans to lower corporate taxes to attract investment and bring
in extra revenue by expanding the tax base. His choice for
finance minister,  Juan Carlos Echeverry , has said he aims to
eliminate by 2014 the consolidated budget deficit that’s equal
to about 3.6 percent of GDP this year.  
 Echeverry also plans to create a dollar-denominated
sovereign wealth fund using royalties from oil and coal sales,
dividends from state oil company Ecopetrol SA and tax revenue,
he said.  
 The government forecasts foreign direct  investment  will
rise to $10 billion this year, the bulk in mining and energy
projects, from $7.2 billion in 2009.  
 Santos says his plan to increase spending on roads and
ports in a bid to slash to single digits an  unemployment  rate
that in April stood at 12.4 percent, the highest in South
America.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Helen Murphy  in Bogota at 
 Hmurphy1@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        