-- Columbia University's Harlem Expansion Is Upheld by New York's Top Court
-- Karen Freifeld
-- 2010-06-24T20:35:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/columbia-university-s-harlem-expansion-is-upheld-by-new-york-s-top-court.html

          
          
             Columbia University won a ruling by
New York’s highest court that allows it to proceed with a $6.3
billion expansion of its campus through use of the state’s
eminent domain power to acquire property.  
 The New York Court of Appeals in Albany today held that the
Empire State Development Corp.’s findings of “blight” and its
determination that the property could be condemned to promote
land use improvement were rationally based. The court also found
the Columbia project met a “civic purpose” that lets the state
exercise eminent domain.  
 In its unanimous  decision , New York’s top court reversed a
lower court ruling that stopped the state from taking property
from the owners of commercial establishments in the 17-acre area
without their consent. The judges cited their decision last year
to allow seizure by eminent domain of property to make way for
developer  Bruce Ratner ’s Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn,
which includes a basketball arena.  
 “The proposed project here is at least as compelling in
its civic dimension as the private development” in Brooklyn,
Judge  Carmen Beauchamp Ciparick  wrote in today’s decision. “We
give deference to the findings and determination of the ESDC
that the project qualifies as both a land use improvement
project and as a civic project serving a public purpose.”  
 Columbia, which isn’t a party to the litigation, hailed the
ruling.  
 ‘Long-Term Revitalization’  
 “We are gratified by the Court’s unanimous decision and
look forward to moving ahead with the long-term revitalization
of these blocks in Manhattanville that will create thousands of
good jobs for New Yorkers and help our City and State remain a
global center of pioneering academic research,” Columbia
President  Lee C. Bollinger  said today in a statement.  
 Commercial property owners affected include gas stations
and storage facilities.  
 “We strongly and categorically disagree with the ruling of
the court and we are giving serious consideration to asking the
United States Supreme Court to review the decision,” Nicholas
Sprayregen, owner of self-storage company Tuck-It-Away Inc., a
business in the case, said in an e-mailed statement. “It is
truly a sad day for anyone who cares about the sanctity of
private property rights.”  
 Supreme Court  
 Norman Siegel , an attorney for Tuck-It-Away, confirmed in
an interview he would petition the U.S. Supreme Court to review
the case. He has 90 days to do so, he said.  
 “This is the first time ever that a private education
institution can constitute a civic project,” Siegel said.  
 That decision would allow for other private schools such as
New York University, which is also expanding its campus, to
acquire residential property.  
 “They can say ‘We’re expanding, we need to condemn private
property for educational purposes,’ -- that’s what the decision
today gave a green light to. Terrible precedent,” Siegel said.  
 Today’s ruling confirms that Columbia’s project complies
with state law and the acquisition of the holdout properties is
“essential to realizing the vision for the Manhattanville
campus as it was approved by the state,”  Warner Johnston , a
spokesman for the Empire State Development Corp., said in an e-
mail.  
 Construction Jobs  
 Johnston said the project will be one of the largest to
move forward this year resulting in 14,000 construction jobs
over 25 years and 6,000 university positions, while revitalizing
the neighboring West Harlem community.  
 The ESCD has said it won’t exercise its power to acquire
seven residential buildings in the neighborhood while they are
occupied, according to the decision.  
 In December, a lower appeals court ruled that government
efforts to take land were illegal because the property wasn’t
blighted and the development isn’t a civic project. The position
that the area was “blighted,” justifying seizure, is “mere
sophistry” and “idiocy,” the appellate panel said in its
decision.  
 The lower court ruled the expansion wasn’t a “civic
project” as Columbia is a private institution.  
 The Appellate Division erred “when it substituted its
view” of whether the site was blighted for that of the state
agency, the Court of Appeals ruled.  
 Manhattanville Section  
 The new development, in the Manhattanville section of West
Harlem, is less than a mile from Columbia’s main campus in
Manhattan’s Morningside Heights section. It will add about 6.8
million square feet to the university, including a new business
school and science facilities.  
 The previous ruling hadn’t stopped Columbia from moving
forward with preliminary design for its first building, the
Jerome L. Greene Science Center, which will focus on research of
the human brain.  
 The science center is expected to open by 2015, according to
the university.  
 In addition, Columbia will construct new homes for its
school of International and Public Affairs and the School of the
Arts.  
 Later phases, to be completed around 2030, will house
graduate students and faculty and will emphasize
interdisciplinary scholarship, including biomedical engineering,
nanotechnology, systems biology, and urban and populations
studies, the university said on its website.  
 Norman Siegel  and Steven Hyman, attorneys for Tuck-It-Away,
didn’t immediately return calls for comment.  
 David L. Smith, lawyer for Parminder Kaur and P.G. Singh
Enterprises LLP, which own gas stations in the area, also didn’t
immediately return a call for comment.  
 Abuse of Power  
 “Once again, New York’s courts have completely ignored the
abuse of power by government bureaucrats and politically
connected developers,” Dana Berliner, a senior attorney at the
Arlington, Virginia-based Institute for Justice, which filed a
brief with the court in favor of Harlem property owners, said in
an e-mailed statement.  
 The case is In the Matter of Parminder Kaur v. New York
State Urban Development Corporation / In the Matter of Tuck-It-
Away Inc. v. New York State Urban Development Corporation, New
York State Court of Appeals, No. 125 (Albany).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        