-- ConocoPhillips German Refinery Said to Stay Halted at Least to End-August
-- Rachel Graham
-- 2010-06-24T14:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/conocophillips-german-refinery-said-to-stay-halted-at-least-to-end-august.html

          
          
             ConocoPhillips ’s refinery in
Germany, the company’s biggest European oil-processing plant,
may stay halted for months of repairs following a May 1 fire,
two people familiar with the situation said.  
 The  Wilhelmshaven  refinery may remain shut until at least
the end of August, the people said, declining to be identified
because the information isn’t public. Repairs and inspections
are taking longer than previously estimated, they said.  
 Bill Stephens , a ConocoPhillips spokesman based at company
headquarters in Houston, confirmed the plant “remains down” in
an e-mail yesterday, without saying when the facility would be
restarted or how long the repairs would take.  
 “We consider the details of our downtime activities,
including repair specifics and start-up plans, to be proprietary
and subject to change,” he said.  
 The refinery has the capacity to process 260,000 barrels of
oil a day, according to ConocoPhillips’s  website . About 102,000
barrels of distillates and 36,000 barrels of gasoline are
produced daily. The halt may limit supplies of fuels at a time
of declining inventories while reducing demand for crude from
the North Sea. Distillates include fuels such as gasoil.  
 A fire broke out in the refinery’s crude distillation unit,
days after the plant returned to service following a six-month
shutdown because of maintenance and declining demand for fuels.
The unit was enclosed in steel scaffolding, which was damaged by
the fire’s heat, creating a risk of collapse.  
 Stockpiles of gasoil in independent storage in Amsterdam-
Rotterdam-Antwerp, Europe’s oil-trading hub, fell 8 percent to
2.33 million metric tons in the week to June 17, according to
consultant PJK International BV.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nidaa Bakhsh  in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net 
 Rachel Graham  in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        