-- Copper May Drop Next Week on Concerns Over Chinese Slowdown, Survey Shows
-- Anna Stablum
-- 2010-07-01T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/copper-may-drop-next-week-after-u-s-housing-market-reports-survey-shows.html

          
          
             Copper may fall after reports
pointed to a weakening of manufacturing in China, the world’s
largest consumer of the industrial metal.  
 Nine of 17 analysts, investors and traders surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 53 percent, said the metal will decline next week.
Seven predicted higher prices and one forecast little change.  
 Copper for delivery in three months was down 6.3 percent
for this week at $6,344.75 a metric ton on the London Metal
Exchange at 4:04 p.m. yesterday.  
 “We anticipate a return to doom and gloom next week as
there are too many macro-economic problems out there with China
slowing, the U.S. labor market and a possible downgrade of
Spain,” said  Randy North , a trader at RBC Capital Markets in
London.  
 In China, the Purchasing Managers’ Index fell more than
forecast by economists, to 52.1 from 53.9 in May, the Federation
of Logistics and Purchasing said yesterday. HSBC Holdings Plc’s
manufacturing index slid to a 14-month low. The reports added to
concern that a Chinese slowdown combined with austerity measures
in Europe may undermine the global recovery. Moody’s Investors
Service said two days ago it may cut Spain’s top credit rating.  
 Figures from ADP Employer Services on June 30 showed that
U.S. companies expanded payrolls by 13,000, the smallest gain
since February. The ADP figures were forecast to show a gain of
60,000 jobs, according to a Bloomberg survey. The U.S. Institute
for Supply Management’s manufacturing index for June released
yesterday fell more than economists forecast to 56.2 from 59.7
in May. The U.S. is the second-largest copper user.  
 The red bars on the attached chart are derived by
subtracting bearish forecasts from bullish estimates, with
readings below zero signaling the majority of respondents expect
a decline. The green line shows the copper price. The survey
data shown are as of June 25.  
 The weekly copper survey has forecast prices accurately in
45 of the past 93 weeks, or 48 percent of the time.  
 This week’s survey results:  Bullish : 7  Bearish : 9 Hold: 1  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        