-- Copper Advances as Reports Signal U.S. Rebound Is on Course
-- Millie Munshi
-- 2010-06-24T18:34:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/copper-climbs-in-london-before-publication-of-u-s-durable-goods-figures.html

          
          
             Copper prices rose for a third day
this week as government reports signaled that the  U.S. economy 
is stronger than housing-sector data had suggested.  
 Orders for U.S. durable goods rose 0.9 percent in May
excluding transportation, the third climb in four months,
Commerce Department data showed. The number of Americans seeking
jobless benefits fell last week, according to Labor Department
figures. Copper has dropped 9.6 percent this year on speculation
the global economic recovery was slowing.  
 “The macroeconomic picture is not as strong as it was in
2009, and the recovery has had some setbacks -- for example,  Europe  -- but I’m still mildly bullish,” said David Thurtell,
an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in  London .  
 Copper futures for September delivery gained 6.95 cents, or
2.4 percent, to $3.024 a pound on the Comex in  New York .  
 The metal also rose on speculation that record-low interest
rates will spur inflation and lift demand for commodities as
alternative assets, said  Michael K. Smith , the president of T&K
Futures & Options in  Port St. Lucie ,  Florida .  
 Federal Reserve policy makers yesterday repeated a pledge
to keep the benchmark interest rate near zero percent “for an
extended period” and signaled that an increase in borrowing
costs may be pushed further into 2011. Copper has more than
doubled since Dec. 16, 2008, when the Fed cut the main U.S. rate
to as low as zero.  
 “The Fed is saying they have to keep rates where they are,
which means the dollar is going to come down and commodities are
going to keep moving up,” Smith said. Copper may reach $3.50 in
the next six months, he said.  
 Housing Slump  
 Gains may be limited by weakness in the U.S. housing
market, Smith said. U.S. new-home sales collapsed by a record 33
percent to an annual pace of 300,000 last month from April, the
Commerce Department said yesterday. Builders are the biggest
users of the metal, according to the Copper Development
Association.  
 “The move in copper is going to be more about the
currencies than the growth situation,” Smith said. “We’ve got
a terrible housing market. It’s not supportive. But with what
the Fed is doing, copper can still go higher.”  
 Copper for delivery in three months added $179, or 2.7
percent, to $6,694 a metric ton ($3.04 a pound) on the London
Metal Exchange.  
 Aluminum, nickel, lead, tin and zinc prices also gained.  
 To contact the reporters on the story:
Anna Stablum in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net ;
Millie Munshi in Chicago at 
 mmunshi@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        