-- Corn Advances, Snapping Three-Day Losing Streak, as Dollar Extends Decline
-- Luzi Ann Javier
-- 2010-06-24T06:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/corn-advances-snapping-three-day-losing-streak-as-dollar-extends-decline.html

          
          
             Corn futures advanced, snapping a
three-day losing streak, as the dollar weakened, making U.S.
crop supplies more attractive to investors and importers.
Soybeans and wheat also gained.  
 Corn for December delivery rose as much as 0.6 percent to
$3.675 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, after losing 3.9
percent in the past three sessions. The contract traded at
$3.6625 a bushel, up 0.2 percent at 1:59 p.m. Singapore time.  
 The  Dollar Index , which tracks the value of the greenback,
fell for a second day as traders increased bets the Federal
Reserve with keep U.S. interest rates near zero to support a
recovery in the world’s largest economy.  
 A weaker dollar “may be encouraging some light buying in
the corn market today,”  Peter McGuire , managing director of CWA
Global Markets Pty Ltd., said in an e-mail.  
 The first shipment of U.S. corn into China in almost 15
years cleared the Asian nation’s customs “ without delay ,” the
U.S. Grains Council said on its website.  
 The cargo of 55,000 metric tons (2.2 million bushels) of
U.S. No. 2 yellow corn is being unloaded at Longkou port in
Shandong province and Chinese authorities haven’t made any
“negative” observations about the shipment, the council said.  
 “This is a very positive indication for future corn
imports,” said Dan Keefe, a marketing specialist at the council.  
 Favorable weather conditions in the U.S., the largest
grower and exporter, may cap gains in corn prices, McGuire said.  
 Midwest Weather  
 Corn and soybean crops in the Midwest, the largest U.S.
growing region, “should benefit from drier, warmer weather,”
Telvent DTN Inc. said in a forecast yesterday. “This will allow
fieldwork to resume in some areas that have not done much work
recently.”  
 September-delivery wheat added 0.4 percent to $4.775 a
bushel, the first gain in five sessions, while soybeans for
November delivery gained 0.3 percent to $9.265 a bushel.  
 China, the largest soybean buyer, purchased between 17 and
25 cargoes, or as much as 1.5 million tons, in the past two
weeks as crushers expect processing margins to improve,
according to a range of estimates from three executives familiar
with the trade.  
 Chinese buyers had curbed purchases in recent weeks as port
inventories surged, they said. Each cargo weighs 60,000 tons.  
 Soybean planting in Brazil, the world’s second-largest
producer, may be delayed by dry weather caused by the La Nina
weather pattern,  Paulo Etchichury , head of Sao Paulo-based
forecaster Somar Meteorologia said yesterday.  
 La Nina years are “among the worst for grain and oilseed
crops” in Brazil, Etchichury said. La Nina, caused by cooling
temperatures in the Pacific Ocean, can mean less rain will fall
over southern Brazil during the soybean-planting season that
runs from September to November.  
 Soybean output in Brazil expanded 20 percent from a year
earlier to 68.7 million tons for the crop harvested last month,
according to the Agriculture Ministry. Southern Brazil accounted
for 37 percent of total production, according to the
government’s forecasting agency, known as Conab.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        