-- Costa Pina Says He's Confident Portugal Will Achieve Budget-Deficit Goals
-- Joao Lima
-- 2010-06-24T10:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/costa-pina-says-he-s-confident-portugal-will-achieve-budget-deficit-goals.html

          
          
             Carlos Costa Pina , Portugal’s
secretary of state for treasury and finance, said he’s confident
the government will reach its budget-deficit targets after
borrowing costs increased following Greece’s debt crisis.  
 “We have a good track record,” Costa Pina said in a
Bloomberg Television interview today at “The Sovereign Debt
Briefing” in London hosted by Bloomberg Link. “We’re making a
huge effort in terms of fiscal consolidation and we’re also
satisfying our financing needs. We’re in an environment with
market irrationality and we’re suffering, of course, the
contagion effects of this crisis.”  
 The government of Socialist Prime Minister Jose Socrates
cut Portugal’s deficit to 2.6 percent of gross domestic product
in 2007 from 6.1 percent in 2005, when it was first elected.  
 Portugal must cut the shortfall again after reporting the
fourth-highest deficit in the euro region in 2009. The European
Union last month agreed on a 750 billion-euro ($921 billion) aid
package and the European Central Bank pledged to buy bonds in a
bid to stop Greece’s crisis from spreading following a surge in
the  extra yield  that investors demand to hold Portuguese and
Spanish debt instead of benchmark German bonds.  
 ECB’s Role  
 “The ECB is doing what it’s supposed to do,” Costa Pina
said. “I firmly believe that the ECB is also prepared to
reinforce its role if necessary.”  
 The Frankfurt-based ECB announced on May 10 that it would
start buying government and corporate debt on the secondary
market to reduce bond yields. The ECB said yesterday it has
spent about 51 billion euros so far.  
 Portugal yesterday sold 943 million euros of bonds due
October 2015, more than indicated by the debt agency before the
auction. The bonds were sold at an average yield of 4.657
percent, which compares with an average yield of 3.701 percent
at a previous auction of the same-maturity debt on May 26.  
 Portugal is trying to meet the EU’s limit for a deficit of
3 percent of GDP by 2013 after the budget gap reached 9.4
percent last year. Ireland had the biggest shortfall in the euro
region at 14.3 percent of GDP, followed by Greece with 13.6
percent and by Spain with 11.2 percent.  
 The Portuguese government aims to cut the 2010 budget gap
to 7.3 percent of GDP and is targeting 4.6 percent for 2011 and
2012 and 2.8 percent for 2013. The deficit-cutting measures
include reductions in top government officials’ wages and
temporary increases of value-added, personal-income and
corporate taxes.  
 Growth Forecast  
 Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos said on May
18 that the government was maintaining its economic-growth
forecast of 0.7 percent for this year even after announcing more
budget-cutting measures that may curb domestic spending.
Portugal’s GDP rose 1.1 percent in the first quarter from the
fourth, the fastest pace in almost five years.  
 “It’s possible to combine fiscal consolidation and the
reduction of the public deficit, with economic growth,” Costa
Pina said.  
 Indicators in the first quarter give Portugal “strong
confidence” about its growth forecast for 2010, he said at the
conference. Portugal is in “a totally different situation” to
Greece, he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrea Catherwood  in London at 
 acatherwood@bloomberg.net ;
 Joao Lima  in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Carlos Costa Pina, Portugal’s secretary of state for treasury and finance, talks about his country's efforts to cut its budget deficit.
     He speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse" on the sidelines of the Bloomberg Link sovereign debt briefing in London. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
