-- Court's `Honest Services' Ruling Won't Help Madoff, Lawyers Say
-- David Glovin
-- 2010-06-24T21:52:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/court-s-honest-services-ruling-won-t-help-madoff-lawyers-say.html

          
          
             Neither a convicted con artist like
 Bernard Madoff  nor a jailed chief executive like WorldCom Inc.‘s
 Bernard Ebbers  will benefit from today’s U.S. Supreme Court
ruling that narrowed the federal “honest services” law used by
prosecutors to target corporate wrongdoing, lawyers said.  
 Siding with former Enron Corp. Chief Executive Officer
 Jeffrey Skilling  and ex-Hollinger International Inc. Chairman
 Conrad Black , the court said a law that makes it a crime to
“deprive another of the intangible right to honest services”
may be used only in cases involving bribery or kickbacks. The
Supreme Court returned their cases to a lower court to determine
whether some or all of the charges should be tossed out.  
 “Every defendant will raise it for a while,” said  Peter Henning , a law professor at Wayne State University Law School in
Detroit. “But no, I don’t expect to see a rash of reversals.”  
 The decision likely won’t apply in cases where the appeals
are completed, and it definitely won’t in state corporate fraud
cases -- like the one against Ex-Tyco International Ltd. CEO  L. Dennis Kozlowski  -- or where the defendant waived his right to
appeal as part of a guilty plea, the professor said.  
 Nor will it have bearing in cases where the conviction was
for a white-collar offense that didn’t involve “honest
services,” such as the insider trading conviction of former
Qwest Communications International Inc. chief  Joseph Nacchio ,
Henning said.  
 Public Corruption  
 Usually when the honest services law is used -- mostly in
public corruption cases -- there is also an allegation of
bribery or kickbacks, he added.  
 Even in white-collar cases like Skilling’s and Black’s,
courts may uphold the convictions if there’s proof the
executives stole money or property or cheated investors along
with depriving others of their honest services.  
 “What the ruling doesn’t apply to is thieves -- boiler
rooms, Internet scams,” he said.  
 Among the beneficiaries of today’s ruling may be  David Wittig  and  Douglas Lake , who are accused in federal court in
Kansas of conspiring to steal millions of dollars from  Westar
Energy Inc.  Wittig, the former chief executive officer, and
Lake, the former executive vice president, face their third
trial in the case after an appeals court in 2007 reversed their
convictions for looting Kansas’s largest public utility.  
 ‘Significant Chunk’  
 Patrick McInerney, the lawyer for Wittig, said in an interview
that today’s decision may force prosecutors to abandon their
claim that his client breached his fiduciary duty to the
company. He said a “significant chunk” of the government’s
case is based on the “honest services” theory -- but not all.  
 “The case won’t get tossed but the ruling will
significantly impact the government’s theory,” he said.  
 Tracy Schmaler , a Justice Department spokeswoman, said
prosecutors, while disappointed the justices narrowed the
statute, is “pleased that the court upheld many of the core
provisions that have been used for decades to prosecute corrupt
public officials and corporate executives who have breached
their duties to their constituents, clients and investors.”  
 William Devaney, a former federal prosecutor in New Jersey who
is now at  Venable LLP  in New York, said he expects prosecutors
to turn to other legal provisions to target corporate
wrongdoing. “The government has plenty of arrows in its
quiver,” Devaney said in a telephone interview. “This took one
of them away.”  
 Defense Attorneys  
 The ruling nonetheless cheered defense attorneys who have
viewed prosecutions based on the honest services theory as an
attempt to criminalize wrongs previously addressed through civil
litigation.  
 “In recent years, it has been popular with prosecutors in
white-collar cases, especially when they were addressing
generalized crimes like looting of the company, conflict of
interest, not acting in the interest of shareholders, excessive
compensation,” said  Adam Hoffinger , a former federal prosecutor
in New York who is now at  Morrison & Foerster LLP  in Washington.  
 Glenn Colton , who heads the white-collar crime practice at
 Sonnenschein Nath & Rosenthal  in New York, said “everyone
benefits” from the ruling because the vague and ill-defined
statute rendered criminal actions that shouldn’t be.  
 Immediately after today’s ruling, the lawyer for former New
York State Senate Republican leader  Joseph Bruno , who was
sentenced in May to two years in prison after his conviction of
two counts of honest services fraud, said he will seek a
dismissal of the charges.  
 Senator Bruno  
 “We argued when the charges against Senator Bruno were
first brought and many times since, that the honest service
statute, under which he was indicted, was not constitutional,”
attorney  Abbe Lowell  said in a statement. “The Supreme Court
has now agreed. We look forward to pressing our claim again with
the Justice Department and with the judge who tried the case.”  
 The lawyer for former Illinois Governor  Rod Blagojevich 
asked to pause his client’s corruption trial after today’s
decision in order to study the ruling’s implications. Eleven of
the 24 counts against the twice-elected former governor rely in
part on the honest services fraud statute. Prosecutors
previously amended their indictment, which had relied heavily on
honest services fraud, to include other allegations based on
other laws. U.S. District  James Zagel  denied the request.  
 Former HealthSouth Corp. CEO  Richard Scrushy  was convicted
of defrauding taxpayers of his honest services at a 2006 trial
after prosecutors said he bribed the governor of Alabama. His
lawyer, Carmen Hernandez, didn’t immediately return a call.  
 Today’s Supreme Court ruling is Skilling v. United States,
08-1394.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Glovin  in Manhattan federal court at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bernard Madoff, founder of Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, leaves federal court in New York. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
