-- Phoenix Leads Credit Swap Brokers Paying $4.3 Million in Finra Settlements
-- Shannon D. Harrington
-- 2010-06-24T13:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/credit-swaps-brokers-to-pay-4-3-million-to-settle-finra-fee-fixing-claims.html

          
          
             Credit-default swaps broker Phoenix
Partners Group and brokers who worked at four other firms
including Tullett Liberty Inc. and Creditex Group Inc. will pay
$4.3 million to settle claims that they attempted to fix fees.  
 The brokers, who match trades between banks in the $25
trillion market, communicated with competitors about efforts to
counter proposed reductions in the fees they earn from the
derivatives transactions, according to complaints released
yesterday by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  
 The settlements are part of a broader probe by Washington-
based Finra of suspected misconduct in 2005 and 2006 among the
so-called interdealer brokers, Finra spokesman  Herb Perone  said
in an interview.  
 ICAP Plc , the world’s biggest broker of trades between
banks, agreed to pay $2.8 million last year to settle claims a
former manager improperly tried to influence fees.  GFI Group
Inc.  said in a regulatory filing last year that one of its units
was cooperating with an inquiry and that it may face similar
claims.  
 Phoenix, two of its brokers and a former employee will pay
$3 million in fines to settle claims the brokers “engaged in
improper communications with other interdealer brokers about CDS
dealers’ brokerage rate proposals,” Finra said in one of its
complaints. The brokers,  Marcos Brodsky ,  Jon Lines  and  Wesley Wang , also will serve suspensions from the industry of one to
three months. Phoenix is based in New York.  
 Individual Fines  
 Thomas J. Lewis  and  Matthew A. Somers , former co-managers
of the credit swaps desk at Chapdelaine Corporate Securities &
Co., who now co-head the swaps desk at Tullett Liberty, a
division of London-based  Tullett Prebon Plc , will each pay a
$350,000 fine. Lewis will serve a six-month suspension and
Somers will be suspended for three months.  
 Creditex broker Eric Ridder will pay $250,000 in addition
to a two-month suspension. Creditex was bought in 2008 by
 Intercontinental Exchange Inc.   
 Michael Jessop , former co-manager of Tullett Liberty’s
credit swaps desk who now works for BGC Financial LP, will pay
$250,000 and serve a two-month suspension.  
 John P. Tompkins , a former broker at CreditTrade Inc. in
New York, will pay $100,000 and serve a four-month suspension,
Finra said. CreditTrade merged with Creditex in 2006.  
 Phoenix Chief Executive Officer  Nicholas Stephan  said in an
e-mailed statement that the investigation stems from “a period
when Phoenix was an upstart firm with about 25 employees and
virtually no market share.”  
 ‘Preferred to Fight’  
 “We would have preferred to fight this matter to its
conclusion,” he said. “We determined the commercially
expedient course of action was to settle this matter and focus
on our growing business.”  
 Kelly Loeffler , a spokeswoman for Atlanta-based
Intercontinental, and Jessop declined to comment. Tullett
Liberty and the other brokers paying fines couldn’t be reached
for comment.  
 Finra said the discussions among the brokers, which took
place from July 2005 to December 2006, came in response to an
attempt by banks to reduce the fees they pay to brokers in the
inter-dealer market. In some cases, the discussions included
“mutually parallel counter-proposals” to the banks’ requests.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        