-- Eric Varvel Named CEO of Credit Suisse's Investment Bank, Calello Chairman
-- Naomi Kresge
-- 2010-06-24T16:23:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/credit-suisse-names-carley-investment-bank-ceo-calello-becomes-chairman.html

          
          
             Credit Suisse Group AG ,
Switzerland’s second-biggest bank, named  Eric Varvel  as chief
executive officer of its investment bank, almost 10 months after
he became acting CEO when  Paul Calello  began treatment for
cancer.  
 Varvel, 47, will take over on July 1, while Calello, 49,
will become chairman of the unit, the Zurich-based bank said
today.  Fawzi Kyriakos-Saad , 47, will replace Varvel as head of
the Europe, Middle East and Africa region. Separately,  Antonio Quintella , 44, will become head of the Americas region as  Rob Shafir , 52, relinquishes that position to focus on his role as
CEO of asset management, the bank said.  
 Credit Suisse reported record  earnings  at the investment
bank last year, helped by trading revenue that benefited from
low interest rates and recovering markets. The firm, which
dodged the worst of the global financial crisis and declined
state support, is expanding in emerging markets to help boost
profitability.  
 “Under Paul’s leadership, the investment bank not only
successfully navigated one of the most challenging periods in
many decades,” Credit Suisse CEO  Brady Dougan  said in the
statement. “It also delivered an outstanding performance in
2009 with significant market share gains, which have put the
franchise in a very strong strategic position.”  
 Credit Suisse  fell 4 percent to 42.55 francs ($38.7) in
Swiss trading. The stock is down 17 percent since the start of
the year, compared with a 9.7 percent decline in the 52-company
Bloomberg  Europe Banks and Financial Services Index .  
 Asia-Pacific  
 Calello became CEO of the investment bank in 2007, when
Dougan was promoted from that role to head the whole bank.
Calello joined Credit Suisse with Dougan from Bankers Trust
Corp. in 1990.  
 Varvel, who also started at the bank in 1990, spent 15
years in the Asia-Pacific region before being chosen by Dougan,
then head of the Credit Suisse First Boston securities unit, to
oversee client coverage of all industry and regional teams in
the Americas. He was promoted to co-head of global investment
banking later that year.  
 Credit Suisse appointed Varvel to the executive board in
2008 as head of Europe, the Middle East and Africa, excluding
Switzerland. In this role, he has been in charge of coordinating
business between asset management, the private bank and the
investment bank.  
 Varvel, who holds a bachelor’s degree in business finance
from Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah, is married and has
five children. He will move to New York from London to assume
his new role, Credit Suisse said.  
 Brazil, Russia  
 Quintella, who will take the new role as head of Americas
in addition to his CEO of Brazil position, will move to New York
from Sao Paulo. He joined Credit Suisse’s investment-banking
department in 1997 from ING Barings and was appointed to head
Brazil operations in 2003.  
 Kyriakos-Saad, currently CEO of Russia, the countries of
the Commonwealth of Independent States and Turkey, will move to
London from Moscow. His successor will be announced in due
course, Credit Suisse spokesman  Marc Dosch  said. Kyriakos-Saad
joined the Swiss bank in 2006 from  JPMorgan Chase & Co.   
 Quintella and Kyriakos-Saad “are proven business leaders
in key growth markets for Credit Suisse,” Dougan said. “Our
regional CEOs will continue to provide essential leadership as
we further develop our strategy, our brand, our people and our
client relationships across our business divisions in our key
growth markets.”  
 Quintella and Kyriakos-Saad will keep their roles as co-
heads of the global emerging markets council, the bank said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elena Logutenkova  in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net 
 Naomi Kresge  in Zurich at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Credit Suisse Group AG incoming chief executive officer of its investment bank Eric Varvel. Source: Credit Suisse via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Credit Suisse AG's investment bank division new Chairman Paul Calello speaks during a forum in Shanghai Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
