-- Oil Is Little Changed on Signs U.S. Economy Rebounding as Equities Decline
-- Margot Habiby
-- 2010-06-24T20:56:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/crude-oil-falls-for-a-third-day-as-stocks-decline-on-european-debt-crisis.html

          
          
             Crude oil finished little changed
after being pushed up by U.S. factory orders and improved
unemployment figures, then down as equities declined amid
concern the European debt crisis is worsening.  
 Oil rose as durable goods orders meant to last three years
climbed in May and applications for jobless benefits fell from a
two-month high last week. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index 
dropped for a fourth consecutive day, the longest losing streak
in seven weeks.  
 “There’s a real balance of bullish and bearish factors,”
said  Kyle Cooper , managing director at energy consultant IAF
Advisors in Houston. “The economy doesn’t look like it’s taking
off.”  
 Crude for August delivery gained 16 cents to settle at
$76.51 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Prices are
down 3.6 percent for the year.  
 Bookings for goods, excluding autos and aircraft, gained
0.9 percent last month, the third increase in four months,
according to the Commerce Department. The number of Americans
applying for jobless benefits  declined  by 19,000 last week to
457,000, the Labor Department said.  
 The S&P 500 fell 1.7 percent to 1,073.69, and the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  lost 145.64 points, or 1.4 percent, to
10,152.80 as the rising cost to protect Greece from default
spurred concern that the pace of the European recovery will
slow.  
 Oil also advanced as the euro jumped as much as 0.6 percent
against the dollar, the most in a week, boosting the appeal of
commodities as an alternative investment to the U.S. currency.
The euro was at $1.2328 compared with $1.2311 yesterday.  
 ‘Less Supportive’  
 The Fed said yesterday that “financial conditions have
become less supportive of economic growth on balance.” Fed
policymakers retained a pledge to keep the benchmark interest
rate at a record low for an “extended period” and signaled
that European indebtedness may harm American growth.  
 “A few extra jobs does not a recovery make,” said  Michael Fitzpatrick , vice president of energy at MF Global in New York.
“The Federal Reserve language itself says the economy is
weak.”  
 Oil has settled within $1 of crude’s 200-day moving
average, a key technical-support level, every day since June 15.
The average was at $77.04 a barrel today.  
 “We’ve been tiptoeing around that all week,” said  Matt Smith , a commodities analyst for Summit Energy Inc. in
Louisville, Kentucky. “If the economic data is weak tomorrow,
we could see a selloff and break this moving average.”  
 U.S. gross-domestic product data for the first quarter, as
well as personal consumption and consumer confidence data are
scheduled for release tomorrow.  
 Triple-Digit Prices  
 “The marginal cost of supply for oil, as we see it, is
about $75 a barrel,”  Ben Dell , a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
analyst in New York, said today in an interview on Bloomberg
Radio with  Ken Prewitt  and  Tom Keene . “We have been somewhat
lucky that GDP has not accelerated more rapidly. If it had, we
would probably be looking at triple digits.”  
 Earlier, oil fell as much as 1.1 percent amid the highest
U.S. oil inventories in 20 years for the middle of June.
Supplies gained 2.02 million barrels, or 0.6 percent, to 365.1
million barrels in the week ended June 18, according to an
Energy Department report yesterday.  
 “The supply is onerous,” said  Peter Beutel , president of
trading advisory company Cameron Hanover Inc. in New Canaan,
Connecticut. “It’s almost a containment problem. The demand is
doing reasonably well compared with where it’s been for two
years, but it’s not getting any better.”  
 Fuel Consumption  
 U.S.  fuel consumption  in the four weeks ended June 18
averaged 19.58 million barrels a day, down 0.3 percent from the
period ended June 11. Demand touched a 10-year low of 18.2
million barrels a day in May 2009.  
 A federal judge denied a request by the U.S. government to
delay an order that allows deep-water drilling to resume. U.S.
District Judge  Martin Feldman  in New Orleans today refused to
stay his June 22 order lifting the moratorium imposed by
President  Barack Obama  in May following the worst oil spill in
U.S. history. The government filed notice of appeal yesterday.  
 The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
increase shipments in the four weeks to July 10 as Asian
refiners bolster imports to meet demand for driving fuels,
according to tanker-tracker  Oil Movements .  
 OPEC, responsible for about 40 percent of the world’s crude
supplies, will ship 23.73 million barrels a day in the four-week
period, up 0.7 percent from 23.57 million a day during the month
ended June 12, the consultant said in a report today. The data
exclude Ecuador and Angola.  
 Brent crude oil for August delivery gained 20 cents, or 0.3
percent, to $76.47 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
in London.  
 Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 381,735
contracts as of 3:12 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 615,110
contracts yesterday, 21 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.26 million contracts.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margot Habiby  in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        