-- Current Account Gap in South Africa Widens as Economy Grows, Imports Rise
-- Nasreen Seria
-- 2010-06-24T12:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/current-account-gap-in-south-africa-widens-as-economy-grows-imports-rise.html

          
          
             South Africa’s current account
 deficit  widened in the first quarter from a four-and-a-half year
low in the previous three months as the economy recovered from a
recession, boosting demand for imports. The rand weakened.  
 The shortfall on the current account, the broadest measure
of trade in goods and services, increased to 4.6 percent of
gross domestic product from a revised 2.9 percent in the fourth
quarter, the Reserve Bank said in its Quarterly Bulletin
released today in Pretoria.  
 A rebound in  manufacturing  spurred demand for imported
equipment and boosted economic growth to an annualized 4.6
percent in the first quarter. Imports also increased as the rand
gained 1.6 percent against the dollar in the first three months
of the year, adding to its 28 percent surge last year, making
imports cheaper.  
 There was a “notable increase in imports over the
period,” while “export proceeds receded somewhat during the
quarter,” the central bank said. That resulted in a
“significantly wider deficit on the current account.”  
 The  median forecast  of 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
was for a shoftfall of 3.9 percent of GDP.  
 The rand traded at 7.6346 per dollar as of 1:25 p.m. in
Johannesburg, down from 7.5681 before the release of the data
and 7.5509 late yesterday.  
 Rand Strength  
 South Africa “could have benefitted so much more from the
higher commodity prices had the rand not strengthened so
significantly,”  Kevin Lings , a Johannesburg-based economist
with Stanlib Asset Management, said in e-mailed comments. “At
the same time the economic troubles in Europe aggravated the
situation.”  
 The deficit reached an annualized 116 billion rand ($15.3
billion) in the first quarter, up from 71.4 billion rand in the
previous three months, the central bank said.  
 The government has described the deficit as the “Achilles
heel” of the economy because it leaves the country reliant on
foreign investment in stocks and bonds to fund the import bill,
fueling volatility in the exchange rate.  
 South Africa didn’t have trouble financing the deficit last
quarter. Foreigners bought 44.1 billion rand of stocks and bonds
in the three months through March, up from 41.2 billion rand in
the fourth quarter, the central bank said.  
 Trade  
 Import volumes increased 2.7 percent from the fourth
quarter, when they rose 8 percent, as consumer spending and
investment rose, the bank said.  
 “The gradual pick-up in global economic activity and the
concomitant increase in foreign demand for domestically
manufactured products positively affected business confidence
levels,” the central bank said. “The increased appetite to
expand future production capacity was further encouraged by the
improvement in domestic consumers’ confidence levels.”  
 Export volumes, excluding gold, declined for the first time
in three quarters in the January to March period, dropping 3.3
percent as the European debt crisis hit and the stronger rand
boosted export prices, the bank said.  
 The current account deficit will probably widen to 4.9
percent of GDP this year and 5.3 percent in 2011, the  National
Treasury  said on Feb. 17.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        