-- CVC Buys 28% Stake in Madame Tussauds Owner Merlin From Dubai, Blackstone
-- Anne-Sylvaine Chassany
-- 2010-06-24T12:44:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/cvc-capital-buys-28-of-merlin-owner-of-madame-tussauds-for-3-4-billion.html

          
          
             CVC Capital Partners Ltd., manager
of a 10.8 billion-euro ($13.4 billion) leveraged buyout fund,
agreed to buy a 28 percent stake in Merlin Entertainments Group
Ltd., the owner of Madame Tussauds.  
 CVC is purchasing the stake from Merlin’s shareholders
Dubai International Capital LLC and  Blackstone Group LP , the
London-based private equity firm said today in a statement
posted on its website. The transaction values the company at
2.25 billion pounds ($3.4 billion).  
 Merlin, Europe’s largest operator of theme parks, had been
considering an initial public offering earlier this year to
return cash to its owners. Private equity firms have been forced
to shelve share sales plans for the companies they own or offer
bigger discounts than anticipated after Europe’s debt crisis
increased market volatility.  
 “Having thoroughly reviewed all the options for the next
phase of ownership of Merlin, we believe this transaction
represents the best way forward,”  Nick Varney , chief executive
officer of Merlin, said in the statement. “This transaction
will give us a substantial platform to further fuel our
growth.”  
 Dubai International disposed of its remaining undisclosed
stake in Merlin while Blackstone reduced its stake to 34
percent. Kirkbi A/S, the investment unit of the Lego Group, has
kept its shareholding unchanged at 36 percent, CVC said.  
 “CVC’s acquisition allows us to continue our very
ambitious growth strategy and gives Merlin a very strong
shareholder base,” Merlin spokeswoman Sally Ann Wilkinson said
in a telephone interview. “This leaves the door open for an IPO
when the financial markets improve. Merlin very much sees itself
as a public company in the future.”  
 Merlin is in “advanced discussions” to extend the
maturities of its existing debt facilities, CVC said. The talks
won’t lead to an increase in the company’s financial leverage,
it said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        