-- Danish Pension Funds With $37 Billion Oppose Spanish Solar-Subsidy Cuts
-- Ben Sills
-- 2010-06-24T15:36:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/danish-pension-funds-with-37-billion-oppose-spanish-solar-subsidy-cuts.html

          
          
             Spain’s plans to reduce the revenue
of solar-power plants may deter investors from holding any
securities backed by the Spanish state, three Danish pension
funds said in a letter to the government.  
 The move may lead to a “complete and prolonged” freeze in
renewable-energy investment in Spain, according to AP Pension,
PensionDanmark and PBU. The funds manage more than 30 billion
euros ($37 billion), including Spanish solar investments, for
700,000 clients, the letter to Finance Minister  Elena Salgado 
and Industry Minister  Miguel Sebastian  said.  
 “We would view a retroactive reduction in solar tariffs as
a failure of the Spanish government to abide by its
commitments,” according to a copy of the letter provided to
Bloomberg. “It would not be prudent for the government to enact
such retroactive measures.”  
 Solar-energy executives said Sebastian told them this week
he intends to cut the subsidized revenue that photovoltaic
plants earn by 30 percent as part of a plan to reduce the cost
of power. The government is looking to boost the competitiveness
of Spanish industry and curb public liabilities as it bids to
reignite the economy after the worst recession in 60 years.  
 Investors have dumped Spanish government bonds on concern
that a faltering economy will leave the administration
struggling to rein in a budget deficit that reached 11.2 percent
of gross domestic product last year.  
 Spread to Bunds  
 The extra yield that investors demand to hold Spain’s 10-
year bonds rather than the benchmark bunds reached a euro-era
record of 2.33 percentage points on June 16.  
 The government, which passed the steepest budget cuts in at
least 30 years last month, must trim spending further so that
its debts don’t “snowball” in coming years, according to a
draft European Commission document seen by Bloomberg this month.  
 The pension funds took aim at the good faith of Spain’s
government in setting subsidies for renewable power, which are
passed on to electricity consumers in their monthly bills.  
 Tariff cuts for existing solar plants would make investors
“extremely wary of investing in any assets that rely directly
or indirectly on Spanish public sector credit,” AP Pension
Deputy Chief Executive Officer Soren Dal Thomsen said in the
letter. “In terms of the perception of Spanish risk, our views
on a retroactive tariff reduction would be widely shared by the
broader investor community.”  
 PBU Chief Investment Officer  Morten Schou  and his
counterpart at PensionDanmark  Claus Stampe  also signed the
letter dated June 21. The letter’s authenticity was confirmed by
AP Pension spokesman Hans Dam.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sills  in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        