-- Dell Plans to Double the Size of Its $16 Billion Data-Center Operations
-- Aaron Ricadela
-- 2010-06-24T21:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/dell-plans-to-double-the-size-of-its-16-billion-data-center-business.html

          
          
             Dell Inc.  plans to “double the
size” of its $16 billion data center and technology services
business in three years by shifting staff, increasing sales
incentives, and buying more companies, executives said.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Michael Dell , speaking at the
company’s annual analyst meeting today in Austin, Texas, said
65 percent of Dell’s 96,000 employees work in “solutions,”
including systems for corporate data centers and technology
services, up from 49 percent two years ago. Dell’s enterprise
business may reach $30 billion by fiscal 2014, executives said.  
 “The only way to do that is through M&A,” said  Jayson Noland , a senior analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in San
Francisco, who has an “outperform” rating on Dell shares.
“You can’t do that organically.” Dell could acquire in areas
including security and systems-management software, he said.  
 Dell , the world’s third-largest maker of personal
computers, yesterday said it would return to growth in revenue
and operating income in fiscal 2011 after a two-year slump.
Companies are replacing aging PCs, and Dell is expanding into
products and technology services for corporate data centers.  
 The company, based in Round Rock, Texas, bought Perot
Systems Corp. for $3.6 billion in cash last year to expand into
computing services, and acquired storage maker EqualLogic Inc.
for $1.4 billion in 2008. Dell had $10.9 billion in cash and
short-term investments on its  balance sheet  as of April 30.  
 Acquisition Targets  
 The company will continue to acquire vendors with strength
in data centers and business computing, CEO Dell said at a
reception for analysts yesterday. He said today that “we
haven’t ruled out any category” of acquisition target.  
 “They don’t have a track record so it will be interesting
to hear how they plan to change the revenue mix,” said  Abhey Lamba , an analyst at ISI Group Inc. in New York, who has a
“hold” rating on Dell shares.  
 Dell may acquire companies that make data-center software,
provide technology services in specialized markets including
health care and produce networking equipment, Chief Financial
Officer  Brian Gladden  said in an interview. Dell’s cash position
would enable it to buy the companies it needs to meet its
enterprise growth targets without using stock, he said.  
 “We feel like we can do what we need to do without doing a
stock transaction,” Gladden said.  
 Gladden told the analysts that Dell’s sales staff has
incentives to increase revenue in the enterprise business --
services, computer servers, and networking equipment -- faster
than in its PC business.  
 Shifting to Services  
 The company is trying to lessen its dependence on PCs,
moving into services and smartphones and releasing a tablet
computer. Dell, more than three years into a turnaround effort,
has announced plans to cut more than 10,000 jobs and has
outsourced production, shutting factories to save money.  
 Services  accounted  for 13 percent of  revenue in the first
quarter, while about 55 percent came from desktop and mobile
PCs. Services revenue has increased an average of 2.9 percent in
Dell’s two most recent fiscal years, while sales of PCs,
laptops, servers, storage devices and software have declined.  
 Dell said in a statement yesterday that it expects 2011
operating income, excluding some costs, to rise as much as 23
percent this year. Revenue will jump as much as 19 percent from
fiscal 2010 ended Jan. 29, when sales fell 13 percent to $52.9
billion. Sales were little changed in 2009.  
 Stock Value  
 Dell shares have fallen 47 percent since Jan. 30, 2007, the
day before Michael Dell returned as CEO. Over that period,
 Hewlett-Packard Co.  gained 6.5 percent, and  International
Business Machines Corp.  rose 29 percent.  
 Dell  fell  89 cents, or 6.4 percent, to $12.93 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  
 The stock is attractively priced relative to its
competitors, said  Jeff Schwarte , a portfolio manager at
Principal Global Investors, a unit of Principal Financial Group
Inc., who manages $1.55 billion and doesn’t personally own Dell
shares. Dell’s price-to-earnings ratio of 10 is lower than
competing computer-hardware companies, Schwarte said.  
 “It’s a conflict stock; that’s why there’s a valuation
discount,” he said. “It’s not Apple, where everyone knows the
story.”  
 Analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg expect Dell to earn 30 cents
a share before some items in its second quarter ending in July,
compared with 27 cents a year earlier.  
 PC Shipments  
 Worldwide PC shipments rose more than 27 percent in the
first quarter of 2010 and are expected to climb 19.8 percent
this year, to 354.8 million machines, according to market
researcher IDC. Shipments increased by 3 percent in 2009.  
 Hewlett-Packard had 19.7 percent of shipments in the first
quarter, Acer Inc. accounted for 13.6 percent, and Dell 13.3
percent, IDC said. Dell PCs sold for an average price of $657
each in the quarter, compared with $700 for Hewlett-Packard and
$594 for Acer, according to market researcher Gartner.  
 In Dell’s May 20 earnings call, CFO Gladden said prices had
been “more stable” than they were last year.  
 Gladden told analysts today that Dell wants to double its 1
percent profit margin on consumer PCs. Gladden has said he plans
to expand Dell’s total operating margin to 7 percent, from 4
percent in the fiscal 2011 first quarter.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Ricadela  in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        