-- Demand for Crop-Residue Biofuels Uncertain, Novozymes Energy Analyst Says
-- Jeremy van Loon
-- 2010-06-24T10:58:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/demand-for-crop-residue-biofuels-uncertain-novozymes-energy-analyst-says.html

          
          
             Demand for fuel made from crop
residues including straw and wood is “uncertain” as U.S. and
European officials consider regulatory changes,  Novozymes A/S 
energy strategist Anders Lau Tuxen said.  
 The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency is stalling on a
decision to increase the content limits to blend biofuels in
gasoline, Tuxen said today at a presentation. That’s causing
investors to “hold back,” he said in Berlin.  
 “The technology is ready to scale up but there’s some
uncertainty about the future market,” Tuxen said. “There needs
to be a premium for second-generation fuels and we’re not seeing
this happen fast enough.”  
 Prices for biofuel made from plant residues broken down by
enzymes are 42 euro cents (52 U.S. cents) to 47 euro cents a
liter, “close” to the levels for ethanol made by fermenting
corn or sugar cane, Tuxen said. European governments aren’t
doing enough to differentiate between biofuels made from non-
edible crops or from corn and beets, he said.  
 Creating a market for feedstock is central to the success
of making vehicle fuel from non-edible crops, called second-
generation biofuel, which is costlier than the first generation.
Novozymes is the world’s biggest maker of industrial enzymes
that break down starches in plant stalks to create sugars.  
 General Motors Co.,  Daimler AG  and Toyota Motor Co. are
among the carmakers looking to lower consumption of gasoline and
diesel. Biofuels made from crop remnants can be blended with
carbon-based fuels and has the potential to replace one-third of
the gasoline consumption by 2030, Novozymes has said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeremy van Loon  in Berlin at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        