-- Senate Democrats May Lack Votes to Pass Jobs Bill After Scaling Back Plan
-- Brian Faler
-- 2010-06-24T19:03:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/democrats-search-for-votes-to-pass-jobs-bill-with-tax-on-buyout-managers.html

          
          
             A bill that would extend
unemployment benefits and raise taxes on buyout fund managers is
in danger of being blocked in the U.S. Senate even after efforts
by Democratic leaders to scale back the plan in response to
complaints about its costs.  
 The Democrats, in their latest bid to pass the stalled
legislation, announced a revised plan last night that would cut
its costs by reducing proposed aid to states to $16 billion,
down from $24 billion. The new plan also reduces spending on
food stamps, the Pentagon and efforts to expand access broadband
access by $11 billion.  
 Senate Republicans have been blocking the bill for weeks,
saying the cost-cutting hasn’t gone far enough. The revised
legislation would add about $33 billion to the deficit,
according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office.  
 The impasse has cut off jobless benefits for more than
900,000 Americans, and thousands of doctors have seen their
Medicare payments slashed by 21 percent. The bill would postpone
those cuts.  
 Vote Today  
 Senator  Dick Durbin , an Illinois Democrat who is his
party’s chief vote-counter in the chamber, said leaders will
schedule a vote today without knowing whether it will pass.  
 “I hope the votes will show up this afternoon,” Durbin
told reporters. “We don’t have the commitments to start with
but we’re hoping for the best, we’re hoping that we can pass
this legislation.”  
 Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat, nodded ‘yes’ today when asked by reporters if he
expects the legislation to fail.  
 Reid said lawmakers will move on to other legislation if
the bill is blocked, though the chamber may return to the plan
if Republican support emerges. “We can’t pass it unless we get
some Republicans,” Reid said, so “it’s up to them.”  
 Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said “the only thing Democrats are insisting on in
this debate is that we add to the debt.”  
 Democrats, who control the Senate with 59 votes, need
support from at least one Republican to overcome stalling
tactics and pass the bill. Democrats have focused on winning
over Maine Republican Senators Olympia Snowe and  Susan Collins 
after Nebraska Democrat  Ben Nelson  demanded that any legislation
not add to the deficit.  
 Snowe spokesman John Gentzel said today she is unlikely to
support the bill. A Collins spokeswoman didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment.  
 Buyout Managers  
 The legislation would raise taxes on the share of profits
paid to executives of buyout firms, extend unemployment benefits
through November and delay the cuts in Medicare physician
reimbursements. It also would revive a group of expiring
business tax cuts and extend a deadline to close home purchases
under the government’s first-time homebuyer tax credit plan.
Economist  Mark Zandi  has projected that without additional aid,
states will likely have to lay off 300,000 employees.  
 Lawmakers have been working on the bill for more than a
month. An initial draft would have added more than $130 billion
to the deficit.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        