-- Democrats Fail to Reach Agreement in Talks on Energy Bill, Reid Says
-- Lisa Lerer
-- 2010-06-24T22:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/democrats-fail-to-reach-agreement-in-talks-on-energy-bill-reid-says.html

          
          
             Senate Democrats, meeting for the
second time in a week for talks on a planned energy bill, still
haven’t agreed which “clean energy” programs are justified
after the  BP Plc  oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 There were “many, many suggestions on ways to move
forward” during today’s “robust” talks, Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, told reporters in
Washington today after the meeting.  
 Reid wants to bring up legislation next month that deals
with improving offshore oil drilling safety, compensating for
businesses and workers who have lost income because of the BP
spill and boosting alternatives to fossil fuels such as oil.  
 The push for alternative energy sources has divided
Democrats. Some favor legislation that would charge oil
refineries, power plants and factories for the carbon dioxide
released into the atmosphere when fossil fuels are burned.
Others support a plan without carbon dioxide limits that would
require utilities to buy more electricity from renewable sources
such as wind turbines.  
 Carbon Price Differences  
 Some Senate Democrats, who have dubbed the proposed
renewable electricity mandate an “energy-only” bill because it
doesn’t regulate the greenhouse gases that scientists have
linked to climate change, are threatening to vote against
legislation that doesn’t include a carbon price.  
 There are “a dozen or so” Democrats who “aren’t going to
settle for an energy-only bill,” Senator  Mark Udall , a Colorado
Democrat, told reporters before today’s meeting.  
 Senator  Evan Bayh  of Indiana said it would be “difficult”
for him to vote for a bill charging power plants for their
carbon dioxide emissions because that could increase electricity
rates. A bill that boosts renewable electricity generation is
“probably more doable” this year, Bayh told reporters.  
 Reid and other Democrats have been looking to President
 Barack Obama  to help mend the rift between Democrats and to
secure Republican votes for an energy bill. It usually requires
60 out of 100 votes to pass major legislation in the Senate, and
the Democrats hold 59 seats.  
 “We absolutely need the president’s leadership,” Maryland
Senator  Ben Cardin , a carbon-price supporter, told reporters.  
 Obama Meeting Rescheduled  
 Obama had planned to meet with Democratic and Republican
senators yesterday for talks on the energy bill, which the
president has said should promote “clean energy” as well as
deal with effects of the BP spill, caused by a fatal April 20
rig explosion in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 The energy talks were postponed so Obama could meet with
Army General  Stanley McChrystal , who was removed yesterday as
the head of U.S. forces in Afghanistan for making disparaging
comments about administration officials. The talks have been
rescheduled for next week, according to a White House aide who
asked not to be identified prior to the formal announcement.  
 After the White House meeting, Senate Democrats will
“forge a path forward” on the energy bill, Reid said.
Democrats plan to write an energy bill that “brave
Republicans” can support, Reid said.  
 Senator  Judd Gregg , a New Hampshire Republican, said
there’s a “very slim” chance that his party will provide
Democrats with enough votes to pass legislation with a carbon
price this year.  
 After the bipartisan talks at the White House, “we’ll have
a sense of what might be achievable,” Senator  Byron Dorgan , a
North Dakota Democrat and supporter of the so-called energy-only
bill, told reporters.  
 Passed by House  
 Legislation that puts a price on carbon dioxide and other
greenhouse gases narrowly passed the U.S. House last year with
the support of Obama, who included revenue from the sale of
pollution rights in his first budget proposal to Congress in
February 2009.  
 Under the House bill, that price would be set by a cap-and-
trade program in which companies buy and sell a declining number
of carbon dioxide allowances. By 2020, the House bill would aim
to cut greenhouse gases from nearly every sector of the U.S.
economy 17 from their 2005 level.  
 The cap-and-trade legislation stalled in the Senate as
climate change took a back seat to overhauls of the health-care
system and banking sector. The climate-change bill also drew
criticism from Republicans and some Democrats who said it would
raise energy prices and cost jobs as the U.S. economy emerges
from the worst recession since the Great Depression.  
 Kerry, Lieberman  
 Senators  John Kerry , a Massachusetts Democrat, and  Joseph Lieberman , a Connecticut independent, unveiled a revamped cap-
and-trade bill last month which they are urging Reid to include
in next month’s energy legislation.  
 “I think we’re going to get a bill that puts a price on
carbon,” Lieberman told reporters after today’s meeting.  
 Senator  Jeff Bingaman , the lead author of legislation that
would create a national renewable electricity standard requiring
utilities to buy 15 percent of their power from pollution-free
sources such as wind, solar, and geothermal power plants by
2021, told reporters no decisions were made today.  
 While there’s broad support for energy sources that pollute
less, “beyond that there’s not a lot of agreement on
specifics,” said Bingaman, a New Mexico Democrat. Reid is
likely to decide “in the next few weeks” on what should be
part of the energy bill, he said.  
 Kerry and Lieberman have said they might be willing to
scale back their cap-and-trade plan so it covers only power
plants, which produce roughly one-third of U.S. greenhouse
gases, to win more support.  
 Duke Energy  
 Senate Democrats should seriously consider a cap-and-trade
bill that’s limited to the power sector if the votes can’t be
found to pass an economy-wide climate-change bill this year,
 James Rogers , chief executive officer of Duke Energy Corp., said
in a telephone interview.  
 For a power-sector climate bill to pass, it would have to
be “absolutely clear that it becomes economy-wide by a date
certain” or electricity companies would be permitted to “bail
out” of the cap-and-trade program, Rogers said.  
 If Congress fails to pass legislation that includes a
carbon price this year, then possible Republican gains in the
November election could push “serious” consideration of
climate-change legislation beyond the 2012 presidential contest,
Rogers said.  
 Environmentalists won’t support a climate-change bill
“that’s limited in scope to simply the utility industry,”
 Michael Brune , executive director of the Sierra Club, said on a
conference call with reporters today.  
 The San Francisco-based environmental group is joining with
other advocacy groups in an $11 million advertising campaign
aimed at pressuring senators to vote for economy-wide climate-
change legislation, Brune said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Lomax  in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net ;
 Lisa Lerer  in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        