-- Disrupt the G-20 Summit With This Technology: Amity Shlaes
-- Amity Shlaes
-- 2010-06-24T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/disrupt-g-20-summit-with-this-new-technology-commentary-by-amity-shlaes.html

          
          
             What do screaming protesters at the
G-8 and G-20 summits in Canada this week have to do with a
battery service start-up that has received $700 million in
investment capital from  Morgan Stanley  and Lazard Ltd.? And what
do they have to do with this month’s planned initial public
offering by  Tesla Motors Inc. , an electric-car company?  
 The answer has to do with hopes for an oil-free future that
was building even before Deepwater Horizon became a household
word. Now many innovative companies are counting on anti-BP fury
to take consumers over the edge and adopt alternate energy
projects that were already in progress.  
 Consumers may even embrace the product they have famously
rejected, the electric car. Better Place LLC, a car battery
service start-up, begins with the wager that the old problem of
recharging batteries is the big obstacle that stopped consumers
from buying electric vehicles before. Using Israel as a test
site, Better Place in the next year or so will open 75 stations
where electric cars can simply swap an exhausted battery for a
new one in the same time it takes to refuel.  
 There’s an old business theory that suggests the electric
car may indeed zoom ahead this time. That theory, called
disruptive innovation, was developed by  Clayton Christensen , a
guru at Harvard Business School back in the 1990s when BP Plc
was still British Petroleum.  
 When Innovation Disrupts  
 Christensen  and colleagues have published thousands of
pages on disruptive innovation. But it boils down to this: A big
company makes something that consumers buy en masse, a group to
which it is beholden. Paradoxically, the company emphasizing
good service can be an error. When management caters too
extensively to extant clients, it forgets to develop new
markets.  
 Meanwhile a smaller group has an alternate idea. But that
alternate idea has serious flaws, and no one even knows if a
market for it exists. Over time, the quality of this marginal
product improves. Next, the new product finds a crowd that is
willing to accept imperfect technology because it likes the item
for other reasons. These are the legendary first adopters, the
MP3 crowd. Suddenly the alternate product is spreading like oil
in the Gulf. The big company product seems as irrelevant as a
cassette tape recorder.  
 In the 1990s, long before Better Place and others like it
had formed,  Christensen  laid out the reasons the electric car
was failing, using as evidence the old Chrysler electric
minivan. The vehicle required 1,600 pounds of batteries, which
slowed acceleration. It cost five times as much as a comparable
gas-powered model. It traveled less than 100 miles before
needing to refuel, creating so-called range anxiety for drivers,
and recharging required hours.  
 Changing Landscape  
 Others noted that the viability of the electric car concept
seemed fatally linked to the price of gas at the pump. Hence the
timorous retreat to the hybrid. The question is whether all the
current events of recent years, from two wars to multiple oil
price spikes to, now, the BP spill, constitute a permanent
change.  
 The Tesla Motors public offering will test this idea. So
will the success or failure of  Think , a Norwegian carmaker that
is building an electric car plant in Elkhart, Indiana. Nissan
Motor Co. is coming out with the Leaf, an all-electric car. The
idea led  Carlos Ghosn , who runs Renault SA and Nissan, to
develop electric models such as the  Fluence Z.E.  and the Kangoo
Z.E.  
 Passing Lane  
 All these vehicles already feature the requisite technology
improvements: lighter, stronger, greener batteries, acceleration
from 0-to-60 faster than gas-powered cars, and the ability to
pass cars at highway speed.  
 Under the Better Place business plan customers buy electric
cars from Renault, then sign up for a subscription battery
swapping network, just as they now sign up for cellular service.
A navigation system will help drivers find a charging station
that’s part of the Better Place network. Robotic tools swap an
empty battery for a fresh one in minutes.  
 A company Christensen founded,  Innosight , has publicly
praised Better Place. There is indeed something especially
Christensenian about the devotion of Better Place to finding or
creating that minimarket.  
 Shai Agassi , Better Place’s chief executive, is partnering
with DONG Energy in Denmark and Japanese government officials to
test his product on taxis in Tokyo.  
 Israeli Test  
 Agassi’s big test group are Israelis, who fit the textbook
when it comes to their willingness to overlook disadvantages
that might deter other markets. Many Israelis already spend the
equivalent of thousands of dollars to retrofit their vehicles
for natural gas. To them energy independence is both a public
and a private cause.  
 What’s interesting here is that while governments and their
tax codes loom in the background, capital is playing a star
role: Consider Tesla’s planned IPO and the private companies
that have invested in Better Place.  
 In addition, this time is different because the BP disaster
will loom for a generation ahead, however oil prices fluctuate.
Already many voters, in the U.S. and elsewhere, trust brands as
much as governments. And already, many brand companies promote
political causes. As they watch the protesters in Canada and
live video of the Gulf spill, many voters are considering going
green more seriously than they ever did before.  
 ( Amity Shlaes , senior fellow in economic history at the
Council on Foreign Relations, is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        