-- Dollar Falls for Second Day Versus Euro on U.S. Rate Outlook; Yen Weakens
-- Ron Harui
-- 2010-06-24T06:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/dollar-weakens-against-yen-euro-as-fed-holds-interest-rate-at-record-low.html

          
          
             The dollar dropped for a second day
against the euro as traders added to bets the Federal Reserve
will keep interest rates near zero through the middle of next
year as the U.S. economic recovery falters.  
 The U.S. currency declined for a third day versus the pound
after Fed officials said at a policy meeting yesterday that
financial conditions have become “less supportive” of economic
growth and a report showed new homes sales fell in May to the
lowest level on record after a tax credit expired. The yen fell
against the euro as Asian stocks advanced for the first time in
three days, stemming demand for the safest currencies.  
 “If the whole world is worrying about sovereign credit how
long can they ignore the fragile U.S. position?,” said  Paul Robson , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London. “The dollar may struggle a bit
today.”  
 The dollar fell to $1.2333 per euro as of 7:37 a.m. in
London from $1.2311 in New York yesterday, when it lost 0.3
percent. The greenback weakened to $1.4974 per pound from
$1.4957, after reaching $1.5001, the lowest level since May 12.
The U.S. currency was at 89.86 yen from 89.82. The euro advanced
to 110.82 yen from 110.57 yen, halting a four-day slide.  
 The Fed reiterated its plan to keep interest rates
“exceptionally low” for an “extended period.” All 98
economists in a Bloomberg News survey forecast the U.S. central
bank would hold the benchmark  rate  at a record low of zero to
0.25 percent, where it has been since December 2008.  
 ‘Moderate’ Recovery  
 “Financial conditions have become less supportive of
economic growth on balance, largely reflecting developments
abroad,” the Federal Open Market Committee said in its
statement. “The pace of economic recovery is likely to be
moderate for a time.”  
 The dollar fell after a Commerce Department report
yesterday showed  sales of new homes  slumped a record 33 percent
in May to an annual pace of 300,000, the least in data going
back to 1963. The drop came as a tax credit expired, showing the
market remains dependent on government support.  
 The Fed’s “statement’s a tad more dovish, as they’re
starting to express concern about low inflation,” said  Khoon Goh , a senior economist in Wellington at ANZ National Bank Ltd.,
New Zealand’s biggest lender. “It suggests there’s further
downside for the greenback.”  
 Futures on the CME Group Inc. Exchange show a 34 percent
chance the Fed will leave its benchmark unchanged through its
June 2011 meeting, up from 21 percent odds a day earlier.  
 Yen Weakens  
 Japan’s currency weakened versus 12 of its 16 most-active
counterparts as the  MSCI Asia Pacific  Index of shares increased
0.3 percent, snapping a two-day loss.  
 Julia Gillard , who took over from  Kevin Rudd  as Australia’s
prime minister today, said she was “throwing open the
government’s door” to negotiate on the resources tax with the
mining industry.  
 Rudd’s support’s had declined in polls after he shelved his
carbon-trading plan and proposed a 40 percent tax on the “super
profits” of resource projects in Australia, the world’s biggest
shipper of coal and iron ore.  
 “Rising stocks in the Asia-Pacific region appear to be
fueling appetite for risk and selling of the yen,” said  Takashi Kudo , general manager of market information in Tokyo at NTT
SmartTrade Inc., a unit of Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp.
“Expectations the new Australian premier may tone down the
mining tax are also helping to support risk taking.”  
 The Australian dollar was little changed at 78.49 yen from
78.49 yen after earlier gaining as much as 0.5 percent.  
 The pound was near a 19-month high versus the euro after
minutes of the Bank of England’s June meeting yesterday showed
policy maker  Andrew Sentance  voted for an interest-rate
increase.  
 The central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee voted 7-1 to
keep the benchmark interest rate at 0.5 percent, according to
minutes of the decision released yesterday in London.  
 The pound was 82.37 pence per euro from 82.30 yesterday,
when it rose to 82.02, the strongest since November 2008.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bo Nielsen  in Copenhagen at 
 bnielsen4@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        