-- Dow Chemical in Talks Over Multi-Billion-Dollar Turkish Joint Venture
-- Ercan Ersoy
-- 2010-06-24T14:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/dow-chemical-in-talks-over-multi-billion-dollar-turkish-joint-venture.html

          
          
             Dow Chemical Co.,  the largest U.S.
chemical maker, said it’s in talks on taking part in a Turkish
venture that would require billions of dollars in investments.  
 Local companies are involved in preliminary discussions on
setting up a plastics-manufacturing joint venture,  Kostas Katsoglou , Dow’s head of eastern European and Russian
operations, said today in an interview at a conference in
Istanbul. No decision is expected this year, and Dow is still
accessing the extent of its participation, he said.  
 “Within coming months, we will be in a much more advanced
stage in terms of scoping out the project and taking internal
decisions necessary to implement it,” the executive said. “We
want to build a world-scale plant and make sure it is part of
our global grid.”  
 Dow Chemical  acquired two plants in Turkey when it bought
Rohm & Haas Co. last year, doubling the number of its
manufacturing sites in the country to four. The Midland,
Michigan-based company has about $700 million in sales annually
in Turkey, where Dow plans investments of less than $100 million
to expand local production, Katsoglou said.  
 Russia, Poland, Turkmenistan and the Czech Republic also
offer opportunities for growth, and those countries will receive
“a lot of investment in the next 10 years” from  Dow , Katsoglou
said. As markets including the Pacific region, Latin America and
the U.S. recover, global second-quarter demand is “good,
despite some pressures,” and volumes will be “much higher”
than in 2009, he said.  
 Dow, which will start marketing solar shingles used for
roofing in the U.S. next year, will introduce the tiles in
eastern European markets in about 2012, Katsoglou also said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ercan Ersoy  in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        