-- East Timor Plans Study on Gas Plant as It Clashes With Woodside on Sunrise
-- James Paton
-- 2010-06-24T10:58:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/east-timor-plans-study-on-gas-plant-as-it-clashes-with-woodside-on-sunrise.html

          
          
             East Timor plans to spend $3 million
studying the option of building a plant in the country to
process gas from the Sunrise project operated by Australia’s
Woodside Petroleum Ltd., Prime Minister  Xanana Gusmao  said.  
 The Southeast Asian nation has already commissioned a
report which found that a pipeline stretching from the Sunrise
gas fields to East Timor’s shores was “technically feasible,”
Gusmao said in a budget speech e-mailed to Bloomberg today.  
 East Timor, seeking additional revenue sources to boost its
economy, continues to clash with  Woodside  over how to develop
the Sunrise liquefied natural gas venture. A gas plant in East
Timor would generate jobs and “catapult” the economy,
President  Jose Ramos-Horta  said yesterday while on a visit to
Australia’s capital, Canberra. East Timor demands more detailed
analysis of the costs of the development options.  
 Woodside and its partners, including Royal Dutch Shell Plc,
have said that a floating plant in the Timor Sea is the best
commercial option and would deliver the most revenue to both
Australia and East Timor. Woodside, Australia’s second-largest
oil and gas producer, has ruled out piping the gas to East Timor
because it estimates that would cost about $5 billion more.  
 “The commercial assessment has determined that floating
LNG is the most attractive development,” De la Rey Venter, the
global head of LNG at Shell, said today in an interview in
London. He declined to speculate on the East Timor plans and
referred further comments to Woodside.  
 Different Agendas  
 The Perth-based company and East Timor have different
agendas,  Adrian Loh , who covers Woodside as associate director
at DnB NOR ASA in Singapore, said today in an e-mailed response
to questions. “I think the negotiations will be protracted.”  
 Woodside  declined 0.2 percent to A$44.56 in Sydney trading,
while the benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 Index  fell 0.1 percent.  
 The floating LNG plan must be approved by the East Timorese
and Australian governments. Sunrise straddles a boundary between
Australian waters and an area jointly managed by the two
nations. Woodside and partners have exclusive rights to develop
the field.  
 East Timor depends “almost exclusively” on oil revenue
from the Bayu-Undan project run by  ConocoPhillips , Ramos-Horta
said yesterday. The nation’s fund set up to manage its oil and
gas income rose to $5.9 billion at the end of April from $5.4
billion at the close of 2009, the prime minister said today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        