-- ECB Should Keep Buying Covered Bonds After End of Program, Economists Say
-- Gabi Thesing
-- 2010-06-24T09:46:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/ecb-should-keep-buying-covered-bonds-after-program-ends-economists-say.html

          
          
             The European Central Bank should
continue buying covered bonds after the official purchase
program ends next week, extending its lifeline to Europe’s
banks, economists said.  
 The renewed financial-market tensions sparked by Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis are reason enough for the Frankfurt-based
ECB to buy more than the 60 billion euros ($73.6 billion) of
covered bonds it pledged to purchase, economists at banks
including Barclays Capital, Nomura International and Citigroup
Inc. said. The ECB has acquired 59.4 billion euros of the
securities during its year-long purchase program, which is due
to close at the end of the month.  
 “Now is certainly not the right time to cease the
program,” said  Julian Callow , chief European economist at
Barclays Capital in London. “It has been very successful, but
in the current environment the ECB should do all it can to
support the banking sector.”  
 Buying covered bonds -- assets backed by mortgages or
public-sector loans -- was part of the ECB’s response to
Europe’s worst recession since World War II as officials sought
to free up banks’ balance sheets and encourage lending. The debt
crisis last month forced the ECB to abandon its withdrawal of
so-called “non-standard” stimulus measures and embark on an
unprecedented program of government bond purchases.  
 Meeting Today  
 The ECB could continue buying covered bonds under the
auspices of its new Securities Markets Program, which includes
sovereign and private debt, economists said. Policy makers may
discuss such options when they convene for a regular mid-month
meeting in Frankfurt today, said  Jacques Cailloux , chief
European economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in London.  
 “This is the last meeting before the program ends and they
haven’t said anything,” he said. “The liquidity situation for
euro-area banks has worsened again in recent weeks, banks don’t
trust each other, so it makes total sense for the central bank
to stand by.”  
 An ECB spokesman declined to comment.  
 Banks are  parking money  with the ECB rather than lending it
on, driving up interbank lending rates, because they’re
concerned borrowers may hold too many bonds from Europe’s most
indebted nations. Banks lodged a record 384 billion euros in the
ECB’s overnight deposit facility on June 11.  
 ‘Backing Away’  
 “Markets are very stressed at the moment so the ECB should
be committed to do what is necessary,” said  Ken Wattret , chief
European economist at BNP Paribas in London. “However, the
impression we’ve had from recent comments is that the ECB as an
institution is backing away from asset purchases altogether.”  
 With ECB council member  Axel Weber  and board member  Juergen Stark  openly opposing the bank’s decision to buy government
debt, President  Jean-Claude Trichet  has stressed the “temporary
nature” of the Securities Market Program.  
 At the same time, the ECB’s buying helped revive Europe’s
2.8 trillion covered-bond market, which underpins much of the
continent’s real estate lending, after it almost ground to a
halt in the wake of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse in
September 2008.  
 Since  Greece’s near-default  forced a 750 billion-euro
European bailout in May to soothe fears that Spain and Portugal
may face a similar fate, the covered-bond market has suffered.  
 “Activity in the covered-bond market contracted further in
May, with both primary and secondary market activity strongly
affected by volatile euro-area sovereign debt markets,” the ECB
said on June 10.  
 Rush to Sell  
 This month, sales have picked up as banks and companies
rush to sell covered bonds before the ECB’s purchase program
ends. ABN Amro NV, Landesbank Baden Wuerttemberg and UniCredit
SpA sold covered bonds this month.  
 Companies in Europe have so far sold 34.9 billion euros of
covered bonds in June, already more than double May’s sales of
11.1 billion euros, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales totaled 169 billion euros in the last six months compared
with 233.4 billion euros in 2009, Bloomberg data show.  
 “Since we are facing more distortions, more support from
the ECB would certainly make sense,” said  Juergen Michels ,
chief euro-area economist at Citigroup Inc. in London. “While I
don’t think it will necessarily extend the official bond-buying
program, I could see it intervening, when needed, through the
SMP program. The covered-bond purchases certainly helped.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gabi Thesing  in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        