-- ECB's Trichet Says Italy's $31 Billion Budget Cuts Go in `Right Direction'
-- Lorenzo Totaro
-- 2010-06-24T06:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/ecb-s-trichet-says-italian-government-budget-cuts-go-in-right-direction-.html

          
          
             European Central Bank  President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said Italy’s planned 24.9 billion euros
($30.7 billion) of budget cuts over the next two years “go in
the right direction.”  
 The measures “underpin the stability program of the
country,” Trichet told Italian newspaper la Repubblica in an
interview published today and also posted on the  ECB’s website .  
 The cuts “are necessary because otherwise we won’t see
slower growth, we’ll see a collapse,” Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  told reporters late yesterday in Rome after meeting
with regional leaders opposed to the measures. Tremonti’s
comments were broadcast on Rai state television.  
 Italy’s austerity steps are part of a European effort to
convince investors the region can control budget deficits and
defend the euro, which has declined 14 percent against the
dollar since January. Italy, which has the region’s biggest
public debt, aims to trim the  budget gap  an additional 1.6
percent of  gross domestic product  to below the European Union
limit of 3 percent of GDP in 2012 from 5.3 percent last year.  
 The cuts, which need parliament’s approval to become law,
include 4.5 billion euros in reduced transfers to regional
governments and a three-year wage freeze for civil servants.  
 European leaders agreed to additional deficit cuts after
setting up a 750 billion-euro financial lifeline last month to
backstop the region as the fallout from Greece’s near default
had led to a surge in borrowing costs in southern Europe.  
 The  premium  investors demand to buy Italy’s 10-year bonds
over German bunds, the European benchmark, rose 7 basis points
to 140 yesterday, almost twice the level at the start of 2010.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        