-- Hedge-Fund Investors Almost Double Macro Bets as Global Trades Proliferate
-- Saijel Kishan
-- 2010-06-24T19:32:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/hedge-fund-investors-almost-double-macro-bets-as-global-trades-proliferate.html

          
          
             Hedge funds that bet on economic
trends are attracting cash at almost double last year’s pace as
they seek to profit from events such as Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis and China’s decision to let the yuan trade more freely.  
 So-called macro funds pulled in $2.5 billion through April,
compared with $4 billion in all of 2009, according to researcher
BarclayHedge Ltd. of Fairfield, Iowa. The category had the
second-highest average returns after fixed-income funds in the
past 36 months, even after losing 1.2 percent in May, data from
Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc. show.  
 The challenge for investors is selecting from hedge-fund
managers with sharply diverging investment views on Europe,
where rising budget deficits are roiling the euro; China, which
signaled over the weekend that it will let its currency
gradually appreciate; and emerging markets such as Brazil, where
growth is accelerating. Macro funds wager on such trends by
trading currencies, bonds, stocks and commodities.  
 “There is a lot of uncertainty in global markets at the
moment, so we are adding short-term trading funds,” said  Jose Galeano , chief investment officer at 3A, a unit of Geneva-based
Banque Syz & Co. that has invested $2.2 billion in hedge funds
for clients.  
 Hedge funds attracted $23.7 billion through April, bringing
assets to an 18-month high of $1.65 trillion, according to
BarclayHedge. Deposits into macro funds, which oversee $94.9
billion, equaled 2.7 percent of assets.  
 Most Popular Funds  
 That topped bigger categories including distressed
securities, emerging markets and fixed income, which each had
inflows of 1.6 percent of assets. The most popular major
categories this year are funds that bet on corporate events and
those that bet mostly on rising stock prices, both with net
deposits of 3.4 percent, BarclayHedge said.  
 Macro managers often post a broader range of returns than
rivals because they trade in more markets. The range has been
even wider this year because of volatile price swings and the
diversity of bets on the direction of global economies.  
 Returns at  Peter Thiel ’s Clarium Capital Management LLC
fell as much as much as 5.5 percent in the week ending June 11,
leaving a loss of 6.5 percent this year. Clarium has been
wagering that the U.S. is entering a deflationary period, which
would lead to falling stock prices and a stronger dollar.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman forthe San Francisco-based firm, declined to
comment.  
 No Consensus  
 Colm O’Shea , who runs the $5 billion Comac Capital LLP in
London, saw his Comac Global Macro Fund climb 6.6 percent this
year through June 4. His returns were boosted by bets against
the euro.  
 Alan Howard , founder of London-based Brevan Howard Asset
Management LLP, said at the start of the year that he’d never
seen a time when two diametrically forecasts -- a deflationary
bust and an inflationary spiral --could be argued with equal
conviction. Almost six months later, there’s still little
consensus on such macro-economic issues.  
 Brevan’s  BH Macro Ltd.  fund has climbed about 1.15 percent
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The firm’s
 BH Global Ltd . fund has returned 9.3 percent.  
 Hugh Hendry , chief investment officer and co-founder of
London-based Eclectica Asset Management, whose fund has climbed
10 percent this year through May, is forecasting the euro is
“finished” as Germany may leave the currency shared by 16
European nations.  
 “The Germans will let Europe go,” Hendry said at the GAIM
International hedge-fund conference in Monaco last week. “They
will say, ‘We are cutting off ties here and you are on your own.
We are German, we are rich and we will stay rich.’ ”  
 The euro has plunged about 14 percent this year to $1.22
amid concern that  Greece  and other European nations will default
on their debt.  
 Fortress’s View  
 Michael Novogratz , principal of New York-based Fortress
Investment Group LLC, whose Drawbridge Global Macro Fund climbed
2.8 percent this year through June 4, disagrees.  
 “If the Greeks make an effort to get their house in order,
they will be bailed out,” he said at the conference. The euro
could trade at parity to the dollar, or even slip lower, at
which point European policy makers will come together and buy
sovereign debt to support the currency, he said. Fortress had
$3.3 billion in macro funds as of March 31, according to
regulatory filings.  
 Hendry said he’s betting China’s “credit bubble” will
burst, causing its economy to contract and triggering a global
crisis.  
 “They have been producing GDP growth, but I don’t see the
wealth,” he said. “And the absence of wealth makes them
vulnerable.”  
 Hendry’s firm has bought options on 20 companies in
international markets that will profit from “a dramatic
collapse” of China’s growth that’s been fueled by an
unprecedented lending boom.  
 Novogratz said he isn’t so pessimistic. He sees Chinese
economic growth slowing as the country shifts to building low-
end residential properties from high-end buildings.  
 “I don’t think they will be able to make the hand-off
graciously. In the short term I expect commodity prices to be
lower and China’s growth to slow, but I don’t expect a
collapse,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Katherine Burton  in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
 Saijel Kishan  in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        