-- Hedging Millionaires Buy Jets, Art, Bling, Give Less to Charity
-- Katya Kazakina
-- 2010-06-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/hedging-millionaires-buy-jets-art-bling-give-less-to-charity.html

          
          
             As millionaires’ assets rebounded in
2009, they put more money in tangibles such as art, jets and
gems, according to a report released this week by  Capgemini SA 
and  Merrill Lynch & Co.   
 “It was such a severe crisis, the investor psyche has
really shifted,” said Ileana van der Linde, the Capgemini
principal who managed the research, in a phone interview. “They
don’t fully trust the financial markets and regulatory bodies.
That’s why we are seeing a trend toward putting money into
tangible assets like art and gold.”  
 Almost 30 percent of the world’s millionaires withdrew
their assets or left wealth-management firms in 2008, when the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 38 percent, according to an
earlier survey by Capgemini and Merrill. The index has gained 22
percent in the past 12 months.  
 Six “passion” investments listed in the  “World Wealth
Report”  typically account for about a third of a millionaire’s
total holdings, Van der Linde said: luxury collectibles such as
yachts, jets and high-end cars; art; jewelry, gems and watches;
other collectibles such as wine and coins; sports investments,
including teams and race horses; and a “miscellaneous” category
comprising club memberships, musical instruments and other
items.  
 Most individuals with assets ranging from $1 million to $5
million, excluding primary residences, had 30 percent in luxury
collectibles in 2009, up from 27 percent in 2008.  
 ‘I Have Arrived’  
 “These are status symbols you can overtly show,” Van der
Linde said. “They say, ‘I have arrived.’”  
 For those with more than $30 million in investments, art
was the largest of the six passions, the report said.  
 More investors began adding art, coins, wine and antiques
to their portfolios. Investors in India, China and the Middle
East tend to hold art and other tangible assets as an inflation
hedge, the report said.  
 “In emerging economies, art has been part of the overall
investment portfolio for a while,” said Van der Linde. “Now
you are starting to see the same trend in the mature markets.”  
 The annual wealth survey covered 71 countries and drew on
interviews with 1,200 wealth managers who serve 150,000 clients.
There were many regional differences in spending trends.  
 American and Japanese millionaires spent the most on luxury
collectibles. Europeans and Latin Americans put more emphasis on
art. The rich in the Middle East and Asia focused on jewelry,
gems and watches, according to the study.  
 Giving Less  
 Philanthropy was another area where the wealthy have become
more focused and cautious in the aftermath of the financial
crisis, Van der Linde said. In the U.S., total charitable
contributions fell 3.6 percent in 2009 to $303.75 billion from
$315.08 billion in 2008, according to Giving USA Foundation.  
 With less to give, donors are being more selective in their
philanthropic activity.  
 “It’s not just blanketing several charities and hoping for
the best,” said Van der Linde. “They are now looking to wealth
management firms for advice on how to make philanthropy part of
their investment planning.”  
 The U.S. had 2.87 million millionaires, topping Japan and
more than triple third-ranked Germany with 861,500, the report
said. The number of millionaires in China soared 31 percent to
477,400, keeping the country ahead of the U.K. with 448,100.  
 To contact the reporter of this story:
 Katya Kazakina  in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The World Wealth Report 2010, Page 21, figure 10, shows distribution of "passion" investments by millionaires around the globe. As millionaires' assets rebounded in 2009, they allocated more money to tangibles such as art, jets and gems. Source: Capgemini-Merril Lynch Wealth Management via Bloomberg Lynch & Co. Courtesy: Capgemini-Merril Lynch Wealth Management via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- As millionaires’ assets rebounded in 2009, they put more money in tangibles such as art, jets and gems, according to a report released this week by Capgemini SA and Merrill Lynch & Co. Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
