-- Medvedev Says May Run for Presidency in 2012 If the `People' Support Him
-- Ilya Arkhipov
-- 2010-06-24T11:43:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/medvedev-says-may-run-for-presidency-in-2012-if-the-people-support-him.html

          
          
             Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
used his Silicon Valley debut to identify 10 goals for his first
term and said he may seek a second to finish what he started.  
 More than halfway through his four-year term, major reforms
are underway in every area of society, from education and health
care to the judicial, political and financial systems, Medvedev
said in a speech at Stanford University yesterday.  
 “This is indeed a big trial, but at the same time there is
a feeling of responsibility for what you have started,”
Medvedev said when asked by an audience member if he planned to
run again in 2012. Medvedev says he “does not rule out”
seeking re-election if he has “the support of the people.”  
 Medvedev succeeded  Vladimir Putin  after the now-premier’s
second and constitutionally last consecutive term ended in 2008
The two men, who have worked together since their days in the
St. Petersburg mayor’s office in the 1990s, have both said they
run Russia as a team. Putin, 57, has never ruled out returning
to the Kremlin and said “don’t hold your breath” in December
when asked in a call-in show if he planned to retire.  
 The speech at Stanford was “a signal” that Medvedev
intends to run, said  Dmitri Trenin , director of the Carnegie
Moscow Center.  
 ‘The People’  
 “This reference to ‘the people’ is important,” Trenin
said. “It means that this is not something that will be decided
by his colleagues, by his mentor, by the party, but by the
people and his popularity rating is pretty comfortable.”  
 Medvedev’s “trust” rating this month fell 3 points, less
than the margin of error, to 53 percent, the lowest since the
first quarter of 2008, according to the Public Opinion Fund.
Putin’s rating also fell 3 points, to 61 percent, the lowest
since 2006.  
 The Russian leader toured Silicon Valley companies
including  Cisco Systems Inc . and  Apple Inc . yesterday as part of
his efforts to create a technology hub near Moscow and lure
foreign investment. Medvedev, a lawyer by training who has a
blog, has made modernizing the world’s largest energy producer
the keystone of his economic policy.  
 The U.S. tour, which includes talks today in Washington
with President  Barack Obama , is designed to shift the focus of
relations between the two Cold War rivals to trade from bombs,
after striking a deal on nuclear weapons in March, said  Ben Rhodes , a U.S. deputy national security adviser.  
 The U.S. and Europe shouldn’t be fooled by Medvedev’s new
marketing campaign to soften Russia’s image because Putin still
calls the shots and will return to the Kremlin in 2012, said
 Mikhail Kasyanov , Putin’s prime minister from 2000 to 2004 who
has written a book critical of his former boss.  
 “I have no doubt that Putin has already decided to take
back the presidency not via elections but via an imitation of
elections,” Kasyanov said in an interview in Moscow. “They see
in Medvedev a source of modernization and change. But nothing
will happen because there’s no gap between him and Putin.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lyubov Pronina  in San Francisco at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Russian president Dmitry Medvedev. Photographer: Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
