-- Cisco, Twitter Pledge Russian Investments During Medvedev California Trip
-- Ryan Flinn
-- 2010-06-24T02:28:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/medvedev-s-silicon-valley-trip-draws-cisco-twitter-pledges-for-investment.html

          
          
             Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
came to Silicon Valley with a goal: convince investors that his
country is a safe place to put their money and resources.  
 His pitch led to commitments from  Cisco Systems Inc. ,
Twitter Inc. and California Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  --
and a maybe from Apple Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs .
Medvedev, 44, met with the leaders to get a first-hand view of
Silicon Valley and drum up support for Russian’s own attempt at
a technology hotbed: Skolkovo, an area near Moscow.  
 Russia’s bid to create a technology economy is helped by a
strong infrastructure built during the Cold War, as well as its
educated population and the money to invest in innovation and
research, said  Darrell West , director of governance studies at
the Washington-based  Brookings Institution .  
 “The trick now is to commercialize their knowledge and
form partnerships with other countries to take advantage of the
expertise that exists elsewhere,” West said. “The president
has put his personal prestige on the line, and that should give
Western entrepreneurs some confidence about longer-term
prospects.”  
 The Russian leader arrived in San Francisco on June 22 and
met with Schwarzenegger, who agreed to send entrepreneurs to
Moscow to learn about investment opportunities. The next
morning, Medvedev visited Twitter, where he used the
microblogging site to post his first  tweet .  
 Twitter Expansion  
 Twitter CEO  Evan Williams  said the San Francisco-based
company aims to expand in Russia, home to about 1 percent of its
190 million users.  
 At Cisco, Medvedev met with CEO  John Chambers , who pledged
to invest $1 billion in Russia during the next decade on
innovation and business development.  Apple ’s Jobs presented
Medvedev with an iPhone 4 and promised to think about a proposal
to come to Russia and set up a small research center.  
 The challenge now is ensuring that Russia can foster
innovative companies, said  Kathryn Stoner-Weiss , a senior
research scholar who  studies  Russian politics at Stanford
University.  
 “It’s fine to go around Silicon Valley and talk to people,
but if you don’t create a secure intellectual-property
environment and taxation system, it’s not’s going to matter,”
said Stoner-Weiss, who has written two books on Russia’s
government after the fall of communism.  
 Attempt to Diversify  
 Medvedev has asked billionaire  Viktor Vekselberg  to oversee
the creation of a Russian version of technology hub in Skolkovo.
The idea is to spur innovative technologies that will help the
world’s biggest energy supplier diversify its economy.  
 That kind of project can’t be handled by the government
alone, said Steven Weber, director of the Institute of
International Studies at the University of California, Berkeley.
It requires an entrepreneurial class that is willing and able to
create businesses, he said.  
 “There have been a variety of attempts over the last 15 or
20 years in lots of different countries to create their version
of ‘Silicon Valley,’ and the history of those efforts is quite
unfortunate,” Weber said. “It’s almost guaranteed to fail.”  
 During the trip, Russian nationals living in Silicon Valley
told Medvedev that creating startups in their home country is
“extremely difficult.”  
 “We Californians want to help -- the questions is, does
Russia have the administration for small businesses?” said Olga
Potapova, who was asked by U.S. colleagues to help bridge ties
with Russia. “When I say that it costs me $35 to open a company
here, no one believes me, as it is all different there. There is
no mechanism to make it simple.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lyubov Pronina  in San Francisco via Moscow office at 
7732 or  lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
 Ryan Flinn  in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        