-- Medvedev's Visit Shifts U.S.-Russia Agenda to Trade From Bombs
-- Nicole Gaouette
-- 2010-06-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/medvedev-s-white-house-visit-shifts-u-s-russia-agenda-to-trade-from-bombs.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  will use
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s visit to Washington today to
advance plans for Russia’s entry into the World Trade
Organization as the countries seek broader ties, aides said.  
 Medvedev’s trade-focused U.S. trip comes after months of
engagement on security issues. The U.S. and Russia agreed in
March to cuts in their nuclear arsenals and hammered out United
Nations economic sanctions this month aimed at pressuring Iran
to scale back its nuclear development work.  
 “Both presidents feel strongly that there’s great
potential in the U.S.-Russia relationship that extends beyond
some of these flashpoint issues,” said  Ben Rhodes , deputy
national security adviser for strategic communications.  
 Medvedev seeks to modernize the world’s largest energy
producer to lessen its dependence on oil, gas and metals, while
the U.S. wants to build a relationship that can withstand
strains over security disputes.  
 “The more integrated Russia is into the world economy and
connected with the American economy, we think that serves the
national interest,” said  Michael McFaul , senior director of
Russian affairs on the National Security Council. He said
economic relations would help the two countries work through
“crisis moments” in the future.  
 Silicon Valley  
 Medvedev’s three-day visit to the U.S. started in the San
Francisco area, where he toured Silicon Valley companies such as
 Cisco Systems Inc . in San Jose, California, and  Apple Inc . in
Cupertino, as part of his efforts to create a technology hub
near Moscow.  
 Rhodes said Medvedev’s California stop, which included a
meeting with Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , set the business-
oriented tone the U.S. wants to emphasize during this visit.  
 The Obama administration will make Russia’s long-standing
bid to join the WTO a priority on the agenda of the meeting,
McFaul said. Medvedev’s aides have said he will seek a
“definitive” answer from Obama about whether the U.S. will
support WTO entry.  
 The presidents will “put a game plan together,” McFaul
said in an interview.  
 U.S.  trade  in goods with Russia through the first four
months of this year rose 27.4 percent compared with the year-
earlier period, to $8.48 billion, according to the Commerce
Department.  
 The effort to deepen U.S. investment may run up against a
legal climate in Russia that doesn’t offer companies consistent
protection, said Matthew Rojansky of the Washington-based
 Carnegie Endowment  for International Peace.  
 Rule of Law  
 McFaul told reporters that Medvedev “understands” the
challenge and has been outspoken about the need to strengthen
Russia’s rule of law. The U.S. will announce a new initiative on
open government with Russia during his visit, McFaul said.  
 “Russia is striving to become an open country, ready for
partnership with everyone who is ready for joint work,”
Medvedev said yesterday in a speech at  Stanford University .  
 Today’s meeting will be the seventh between Obama, 48, and
Medvedev, 44, who have an “exceptionally strong” relationship,
Rhodes said. The presidents, both trained as lawyers, spent up
to 90 minutes on the phone together during negotiations on the
Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty for nuclear warheads, according
to McFaul.  
 After their White House encounter today, which includes a
discussion of international security issues, Obama and Medvedev
will attend an event for Russian and U.S. business leaders.  
 The U.S. signaled solidarity with Russia yesterday, when
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton designated Chechen insurgent
leader Doku Umarov for anti-terrorism sanctions aimed at
stemming the flow of money to him, the State Department said.  
 Umarov claimed responsibility for dual suicide bombings in
Moscow subway stations in March that killed 40 people.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Russian President Dmitry Medvedev is on a three-day trip to Silicon Valley and
Washington. Photographer: Johannes Eisele/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
