-- Emerging-Market Stocks Drop for Third Day on Europe, U.S. Growth Concern
-- Michael Patterson
-- 2010-06-24T16:41:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/emerging-market-stocks-drop-for-third-day-on-europe-u-s-growth-concern.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks fell for a
third day, currencies weakened and bond prices dropped after the
U.S. Federal Reserve signaled growth in the world’s largest
economy may be hurt by Europe’s debt crisis.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  slid 0.7 percent to 953.37
at 12:41 p.m. in New York. The Hungarian forint dropped 1.4
percent versus the euro while South Africa’s rand depreciated
0.9 percent against the dollar to lead declines among
developing-nation currencies. The extra  yield  on emerging-market
bonds over U.S. Treasuries rose three basis points to 3.25
percentage points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 U.S. consumer spending still “remains constrained” by
joblessness and “financial conditions have become less
supportive of economic growth on balance, largely reflecting
developments abroad,” the Fed said yesterday in a statement,
repeating a pledge to keep the  benchmark interest rate  near zero
“for an extended period.” The MSCI gauge pared losses as U.S.
reports today showed lower jobless claims and higher orders for
durable goods excluding transportation.  
 “The health of the European and U.S. economies remains a
question mark and that’s affecting the growth outlook” for
emerging economies such as China, said  Wang Weijun , a Shanghai-
based strategist at Zheshang Securities Co.  
 The Shanghai Composite Index  and India’s Bombay Stock
Exchange Sensitive Index both slipped 0.1 percent. The Micex
Index dropped 1.1 percent as oil retreated and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. downgraded Russian gold producers.  
 Brazil, Hungary  
 Brazil’s Bovespa stock index fell, retreating from a six-
week high, after a report showed domestic unemployment
unexpectedly rose. The rate increased to 7.5 percent last month
from 7.3 percent in April. Economists had forecast the rate
would drop to 7.1 percent, according to the median of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Rossi Residencial SA  led homebuilder declines in Brazil,
dropping 2.9 percent.  
 Hungary’s borrowing costs increased and the government
raised less than planned in today’s auction of 12-month Treasury
bills, as investors’ bids barely surpassed the offer. The debt
management agency sold 40 billion forint ($175 million) of the
bills, compared with the 50 billion-forint planned. The yield
rose to 5.41 percent, from 5.35 percent two weeks ago, as bids
totaled 57.5 billion forint, compared with 57.3 billion forint
at the previous auction.  
 The rand slid to a one-week low against the dollar after
South Africa’s current-account deficit widened more than
expected in the first quarter, increasing the need for foreign
capital to fund the gap.  
 South Korea’s  Kospi Index  gained 0.8 percent for the
biggest advance among major emerging market stock indexes.
 Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co.  climbed 2.4 percent after
Goldman said contractors will benefit from continuing industry
consolidation.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .
 Chua Kong Ho  at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        