-- Ten Signs There's No Adult in This Economic Room: William Pesek
-- William Pesek
-- 2010-06-24T20:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/ten-signs-there-s-no-adult-in-this-economic-room-william-pesek.html

          
          
             Kevin Rudd  may be happy about at
least one thing: he can avoid Toronto this weekend.  
 Nothing against Canada’s business capital, but by stepping
down suddenly as Australia’s premier, Rudd got himself out of a
much-hyped gathering with virtually no chance of putting the
world economy on a more even keel.  
 Why is that? We are suffering from a chronic leadership
vacuum, one starkly underlined by Rudd’s untimely departure. The
Group of 20 will go through the motions and consider the burning
issues of our day. Yet the list of pressing problems is a
daunting one. Here are 10 you can bet the G-20 will punt forward
rather than tackle.  
 No. 1: bold thinking. Rudd wasn’t done in by his ambitious
plans for a carbon-trading system and a tax on excessive mining
profits. His failure was not communicating his ideas to a
skeptical population. Plunging approval ratings gave  Julia Gillard  the chance she needed to challenge Rudd and become
Australia’s first female prime minister.  
 Gillard won’t make it to Toronto. So, the only head of the
only developed nation to steer around the global financial
crisis will be absent. The discussions will proceed without the
prime minister of one of the very few nations displaying any
vision about where it wants its economy to be in 10 or 20 years.  
 Too Much Debt  
 No. 2: runaway debt. Countries such as the U.S., Japan and
much of the euro zone are fast approaching Red-Queen situations
on refinancing debt. The Red Queen of author  Lewis Carroll  fame
had to run faster and faster just to stay in place. When do
markets next get default jitters?  
 No. 3: taming boom and bust cycles. Other than feeling less
proud of what they do at cocktail parties, bankers have gotten
away with it. Bonuses are back and lobbyists are chipping away
at attempts to write laws to avert future meltdowns. You can
giggle at  Angela Merkel  of Germany and  Nicolas Sarkozy  of France
when they propose limits on speculation. It would be harder to
dismiss a broader directive from leaders of 20 major economies.
Don’t hold your breath.  
 No. 4: ending the bailout gravy train. The main reason 2008
will happen again is that incentives still encourage bankers to
take risky bets. The folks at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . know
fresh trouble on Wall Street will have lawmakers pulling out the
checkbooks. Why wouldn’t they roll the dice on ever-bigger and
more complicated trades?  
 Zero Rates  
 No. 5: life without zero rates. Five years ago, no serious
observer would have predicted the Federal Reserve, European
Central Bank and Bank of England would push interest rates into
 Japanese  territory. Just try counting the ways in which zero
rates are distorting credit markets, the pricing of risk and
executives’ faith in future profits.  
 No. 6: narrowing the wealth gap. This year may be
remembered as much for Chinese workers demanding raises as for
the number of Asian millionaires topping Europe’s. And yet the
widening of the divide between Asia’s rich and  poor  is
accelerating. It’s a crack in the developing world’s veneer of
broadening prosperity.  
 No. 7: demographics. Japan and much of Europe will be
geezer central in the not-too-distant future. Leaders need to
plan today for a time when some countries run out of young
workers and others have a dangerous surplus of young people
searching in vain for jobs and wives. Investors who glaze over
at such concerns do so at their own peril.  
 Oil Slick  
 No. 8: oil addiction. If  BP Plc ’s oil slick in the Gulf of
Mexico won’t make energy the G-20’s first course of business,
what disaster will? The group can’t agree on regulating
derivatives, the causes of moral hazard or the right mix of
fiscal and monetary policies. It should at least work on kicking
our primitive attachment to fossil fuels.  
 No. 9: China’s checkbook. Fewer world leaders are willing
to sit through Washington’s free-market lectures. Now they can
get twice the money and half the moralizing in Beijing. The
appeal of a “Beijing consensus” of reasonably free markets and
strong controls on free speech is growing. China pulled the yuan
issue off the table with a recent move toward flexibility. The
G-20 should make clear that just because China works for China
doesn’t make it a role model.  
 Not Missing Much  
 No. 10: attack short-termism. Indonesia has had an
impressive few years, South Korea is baffling the doomsayers and
China and India are providing solid growth. Yet economic
upgrades in recent years have been Band-Aids. There’s been
little real structural change. As stocks stabilize, governments
may think their work is done. Far from it.  
 And so, Rudd won’t miss much after all. Leaders will issue
communiques in Toronto, pose for photos and sip pricy wine
before heading home. Going into the weekend, there’s a sense
that the world’s problems are too formidable to fix. Many
leaders just want to get out of office before the next financial
blowup so they can try to escape blame.  
 Long-term thinking is badly needed. What we need is an
adult or two in the room to make sure leaders tackle the big
challenges of our day. Good luck finding any out there.  
 ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 William Pesek  in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        