-- Enel Presses European Union to Honor CO2 Credits as Officials Weigh Curbs
-- Mathew Carr
-- 2010-06-24T11:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/enel-pressing-eu-to-honor-emissions-credits-linked-to-industrial-gasses.html

          
          
             Enel SpA , the biggest investor in
United Nations-backed carbon emissions projects, is lobbying the
European Union to recognize reductions in greenhouse-gas
emissions it financed in China and India as officials look to
curb profits that power companies reap from climate policy.  
 The EU should allow polluters to use credits earned by
reducing emissions of industrial gases such as HFC-23 that the
UN has approved through 2014, said  Giuseppe Deodati,  Enel’s head
of carbon strategy. The EU is considering limits of the use of
those credits, which may jeopardize as much as 630 million euros
($774 million) of offsets Enel and its partners are set to get.  
 “We should try to avoid any kind of retroactive change in
the rules,” Deodati said in a phone interview from Italy.
“That might undermine the confidence of companies that will be
needed to make the carbon markets work properly in the future.”  
 Officials across the bloc are threatening to curb the
revenue that energy companies receive under laws set up to
reduce emissions. Spanish Industry Minister  Miguel Sebastian 
this week told solar power producers he plans to reduce revenue
their plants earn by 30 percent while Germany has eliminated tax
breaks for biofuels and cut solar energy subsidies.  
 The EU may require investors to put up twice as many
industrial gas credits as before to be eligible for the region’s
cap-and-trade system, the world’s biggest. According to a study
published last month, the EU said it may bar credits from some
kinds of projects that create “significant windfall profits.”  
 Changes to the emissions trading system are unlikely to
come into force before 2012, Yvon Slingenberg, emissions-unit
head in the commission’s climate directorate, said last month.  
 Enel, Noble Carbon  
 Enel has the largest portfolio of UN carbon credits,
according to UN data on Bloomberg. Projects the company has
invested in have generated 40 million tons of credits, with
Noble Carbon Credits Ltd. the second biggest at 23 million tons.  
 Enel, Italy’s largest utility, has been pressing its case
to EU officials through lobby groups such as the International
Emissions Trading Association, Deodati said yesterday.  
 Enel has invested in seven projects that reduce emissions
of HFC-23 gases the UN approved to earn credits over seven years
through 2014. Enel is not the sole buyer of credits from those
projects, Deodati said. He declined to say how many tons of
offsets Rome-based Enel is contracted to buy during the period.  
 The projects are forecast to generate about 48 million tons
of credits after 2012, according to UN filings. “Enel’s
exposure is far less than that,” Deodati said. Those credits
would be worth about 630 million euros at today’s price of 13.19
euros per ton for 2012 UN offset futures contracts.  
 “We have been hedging our position so we are prepared for
this kind of regulatory evolution,” Deodati said. He declined
to give details of his hedging strategy, saying it’s
confidential.  
 Climate Change  
 HFC-23 gas is emitted in the production of chemicals for
air conditioning and refrigeration and contributes to climate
change by trapping heat in the earth’s atmosphere.  
 The gas’s warming effect is 11,700 times more powerful than
carbon dioxide.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sills  in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        