-- Lennar Reports Second-Quarter Profit on Cost Cuts, Fewer Buyer Incentives
-- Peter Woodifield
-- 2010-06-24T11:46:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/lennar-reports-second-quarter-profit-on-cost-cuts-fewer-buyer-incentives.html

          
          
             Lennar Corp ., the third-largest U.S.
homebuilder by revenue, reported its second quarterly profit in
three years as it cut costs and benefited from distressed-debt
investments.  
 Net income  was $39.7 million, or 21 cents a share, in the
second quarter ended May 31, compared with a loss of $125.2
million, or 76 cents, a year earlier, the Miami-based company
said in a statement today. The average estimate from a Bloomberg
survey of 17  analysts  was for profit of 1 cent a share.  
 Revenue fell 8.7 percent to $814.5 million as home
deliveries and prices declined. New orders dropped 10 percent as
the government withdrew a tax credit for homebuyers at the end
of April, causing demand to plunge in May.  
 “While we were disappointed with the slowdown in new
orders in May, we believe that this will be temporary and that
the market will improve in the second half of 2010,” Lennar
Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Miller  said in the statement.  
 The end of the tax credit may hold back a recovery in the
U.S. housing market, which has been hurt by weak demand and
increasing foreclosures during the recession. To qualify for the
credits -- worth as much as $8,000 for first-time homebuyers and
$6,500 for move-up buyers -- purchasers must have signed
contracts by April 30 and close the sale by June 30.  
 Sales of  new homes  in the U.S. fell 33 percent in May to an
annual pace of 300,000, the Commerce Department reported
yesterday. That was the slowest rate since the agency began
tracking sales in 1963.  
 Wider Margins  
 Lennar has been cutting costs and concentrating on boosting
margins rather than maximizing sales for several years, Miller
said. The operating margin on home sales widened to 6.7 percent
in the quarter, the highest since the third quarter of 2006.  
 The company has also diversified into distressed debt
purchases to boost revenue in the face of the slowing housing
market. In February, Lennar bought 40 percent of $3.05 billion
in portfolios of delinquent loans acquired by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. from failed banks. The debt business
generated $5.1 million of operating profit for Lennar in the
second quarter.  
 “The homebuilding environment is suffering,”  Jay McCanless , an analyst with Guggenheim Securities LLC, said in a
telephone interview from Nashville, Tennessee, before the
earnings report. “We anticipate Lennar’s EPS growth could
exceed the industry’s underlying growth rate because of the
distressed asset business.”  
 The earnings were released before the start of regular U.S.
trading. Lennar rose 54 cents, or 3.8 percent, to $14.74 in New
York Stock Exchange Composite trading yesterday. The stock has
gained 15 percent in 2010, the best performance among the 12
companies in the Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding
 Index .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Woodifield  in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        