-- Lennar Home Sales Down as Much as 25% in June as Tax Credit Ends, CEO Says
-- John Gittelsohn
-- 2010-06-24T20:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/lennar-home-sales-down-as-much-as-25-in-june-as-tax-credit-ends-ceo-says.html

          
          
             Lennar Corp .’s home sales are down
20 percent to 25 percent this month compared with a year earlier
as the expiration of a government tax credit for buyers saps
demand, Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Miller  said.  
 “The entire market knew there’d be a slowdown as we came
off the tax credit,” Miller said on a conference call with
investors today. “It’s just that the reality of it doesn’t feel
good.”  
 Lennar, the third-largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue,
reported its second quarterly profit in three years today as
cost cuts helped offset a drop in revenue. The Miami-based
company said new orders in the fiscal second quarter sank 10
percent after the tax benefit’s expiration at the end of April,
causing demand to plunge in May. Sales in June have shown
“modest improvement” from last month, Miller said on the call.  
 The end of the tax credit may hold back a recovery in the
U.S. housing market, which has been hurt by weak demand and
increasing foreclosures during the recession. New home sales
plunged 33 percent in May from April to a record low pace, the
Commerce Department reported yesterday. To qualify for the
credits -- worth as much as $8,000 -- purchasers must have
signed contracts by April 30 and must close the sale by June 30.  
 Lennar shares fell 17 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $14.57 as
of 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. They
have plunged 27 percent since April 30, while the  Standard &
Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index  has lost 25 percent.  
 Profit Outlook  
 Lennar expects to remain profitable for the rest of the
year by focusing on improving margins rather than increasing
sales, Miller said on the call. The drop in demand after the
benefit will be temporary, he said.  
 Toll Brothers Inc ., the biggest U.S. luxury-home builder,
said on June 16 that orders were running about 20 percent behind
year-earlier levels in the three weeks after its May 26 earnings
release.  
 “Most people are viewing the glass that is half empty right
now,” Toll Brothers CEO  Douglas Yearley Jr.  said at an
investors conference sponsored by Deutsche Bank AG in Chicago
today. “They are not buying.”  
 Meritage Homes Corp.  expects sales for its quarter ending
June 30 to fall about 25 percent below the same period last
year, when the Scottsdale, Arizona-based company closed on 890
homes, CEO  Steven J. Hilton  said at the conference.  
 Lennar’s decline in volume “will make profitability
challenging” in the second half of this year,  Daniel Oppenheim ,
an analyst with Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a note to
clients today.  
 Orders in Lennar’s West division, which includes California
and Nevada, tumbled 33 percent, the most of any region. Orders
in the Houston area fell 25 percent.  
 “The one metric that makes us pause is the order level,”
 Stephen East , an analyst with Ticonderoga Securities LLC in New
York, said in a note to investors. East, who  rates  Lennar
“buy,” had estimated orders would rise 14 percent in the
fiscal second quarter ended May 31.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        