-- Merck in Pact With Adcock Ingram to Distribute MSD Drugs in South Africa
-- Nicky Smith
-- 2010-06-24T09:49:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/merck-in-pact-with-adcock-ingram-to-distribute-msd-drugs-in-south-africa.html

          
          
             Adcock Ingram Holdings Ltd. , South
Africa’s biggest over-the-counter drug company, agreed to market
and distribute medicines from  Merck & Co.  as the U.S. drugmaker
seeks to increase sales in emerging markets.  
 Adcock Ingram will sell non-prescription medicines as well
as treatments for high blood pressure, asthma and migraines,
among other ailments, Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based Merck
said today in a statement. The companies didn’t disclose
financial details of the partnership.  
 The venture will help Merck reach its goal of getting more
than a quarter of drug and vaccine  sales  from developing
countries by 2013, up from 17 percent now. Merck is looking for
similar partnerships with companies in China, Russia, Brazil,
Turkey, Korea and Mexico,  Stefan Oschmann , the company’s
president of emerging markets, said in a telephone interview
from Johannesburg.  
 “We are looking at further options and are evaluating all
sorts of opportunities,” Oschmann said, declining to name any
specific targets. As much as 90 percent of growth in the
pharmaceuticals market will come from developing countries in
the next five years, he said.  
 Adcock Ingram, based in Johannesburg, sells medicines such
as the Panado headache, pain and fever drug as well as the
Corenza Para-C cold and flu treatment. The stock  advanced  0.9
percent to 57.85 rand as of 11:45 a.m. in Johannesburg trading,
giving it a market value of 10 billion rand ($1.3 billion).  
 Merck has the second-biggest share of the market in Latin
America, behind France’s  Sanofi-Aventis SA , and has boosted its
Chinese sales force by 90 percent to 3,000 employees.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Naomi Kresge  in Zurich at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        