-- Herzog Says Israel Should Reduce Prisoner Benefits to Pressure Hamas
-- Jonathan Ferziger
-- 2010-06-24T13:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/herzog-says-israel-should-reduce-prisoner-benefits-to-pressure-hamas.html

          
          
             Isaac Herzog , the minister of social
welfare, said Israel should cut benefits for Hamas prisoners,
such as use of air conditioning and television, to pressure the
movement to free a soldier it has been holding for four years.  
 Israel must use any leverage it has to influence Hamas to
release  Gilad Shalit , Herzog said in a telephone interview.
“The leverage needs to come from applying more pressure on
Hamas prisoners in Israeli jails -- to go from today’s situation
to the furthest point the law allows,” he said yesterday.  
 Shalit was abducted from the Israeli side of the Gaza
border in a raid that left two soldiers dead. Israel has been
engaged in indirect negotiations with Hamas through Egyptian and
German mediators over a deal that would entail the swap of
hundreds of prisoners for Shalit.  
 Israel’s security cabinet last year linked relaxing a
three-year-old blockade on Gaza with Hamas freeing Shalit.
Israel announced on June 20 that it would loosen the
restrictions following international pressure after a May 31
commando raid on a flotilla of aid ships trying to breach the
Gaza blockade that left nine Turkish activists dead.  
 Israel can increase its leverage over the group by removing
air conditioners and televisions from the cells of Hamas
prisoners and reducing family visits, Herzog said. A ministerial
committee last month approved introducing a bill that would
toughen prison conditions for Hamas inmates. The bill still
needs parliamentary approval.  
 ‘Quite Comfortable’  
 “Many of these prisoners are really quite comfortable,”
said Herzog, a member of the Labor Party.  
 Israel shut off most access to Gaza after Hamas seized full
control there in 2007 after winning Palestinian parliamentary
elections the previous year.  
 The Islamic movement is considered a terrorist organization
by the U.S., the European Union and Israel.  
 Herzog, 49, is the son of former President  Chaim Herzog . He
was appointed cabinet secretary in 1999 by former Prime Minister
 Ehud Barak , who is now defense minister. In 2003, he was elected
to the Knesset, Israel’s parliament, and has since served also
as housing minister and tourism minister.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        