-- Euro Weakness May Boost Currency Area's Exports by 5%, EU Commission Says
-- Jones Hayden
-- 2010-06-24T13:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/euro-weakness-may-boost-currency-area-s-exports-by-5-eu-commission-says.html

          
          
             The euro’s declines in recent months
may boost exports from the currency area by 5 percent, though
the  longer-term impact  on economic growth is “less certain,”
the European Union said.  
 “The trade recovery is now gathering momentum on the back
of strong import demand in emerging markets,” the European
Commission, the EU executive, said today in its quarterly
assessment of the euro-region economy. “Euro-area exports will
be further stimulated by the recent depreciation of the euro.”  
 Europe’s rebound from the worst slump in six decades has
become reliant on exports as rising unemployment prompts
consumers to  cut back spending . While a Greek debt crisis
prompted governments across the region to curtail spending to
tackle swelling deficits, it also has pushed down the euro,
making euro-area goods more competitive abroad.  
 The 16-nation currency’s “real effective exchange rate
has lost close to 10 percent” since its peak in October, the
Brussels-based commission said. Against the U.S. dollar, the
euro has fallen 19 percent since its Nov. 25 high, trading today
at $1.2279 after reaching a four-year low of $1.1877 on June 7.  
 “The depreciation, if it persists, could boost exports by
about 5 percent, with much of the gains taking place already in
2010,” according to the report.  
 A 2.5 percent increase in euro-area exports in the first
quarter countered a 0.1 percent drop in household spending and
helped the economy maintain its recovery.  Gross domestic product 
rose 0.2 percent in the January-March period, accelerating from
0.1 percent growth in the fourth quarter.  
 ‘Less Certain’  
 “Although the depreciation is likely to have a positive
impact on exports and hence growth in the short term, its
longer-term impact on GDP is less certain, as the depreciation
seems to be associated with increased risk premia,” the
commission said today without elaborating.  
 While the “recovery remains on track” in the euro region,
“uncertainty and downside risks remain high,”  Marco Buti , the
head of the commission’s economics department, said in a forward
to the report. “Near-term growth prospects remain rather
subdued.” The commission projects GDP growth of 0.2 percent for
this quarter and next before an acceleration to 0.3 percent in
the final three months of 2010.  
 The commission cited “three important medium-term
challenges” facing euro-area exporters: the emergence of China,
India, Brazil and Russia, the so-called BRIC economies, as “the
main driving force of world trade;” the moves to reduce debt
and deficits in some developed and emerging countries; and
“possible excess supply in key sectors,” noting in particular
overcapacity in the auto industry.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jones Hayden  in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Kathy Lien, director of currency research at online currency trader GFT Forex, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about the European debt crisis and the outlook for the euro.
     Lien, speaking from Sydney, also discusses the appointment of Julia Gillard as Australia’s prime minister and its implications for the nation's currency, China's yuan policy, and the outlook for the New Zealand and Canadian dollars. Lien spoke before Gillard was sworn in as prime minister.(Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
