-- European Coal Price Surge May Attract South African Supply: Energy Markets
-- Alistair Holloway
-- 2010-06-25T04:47:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/european-coal-price-surge-may-attract-south-african-supply-energy-markets.html

          
          
             A 30 percent  rally  in the price of
coal delivered to Europe since the end of March is increasing
the potential for South African mining companies to send more
cargoes to the region and fewer to customers in China and India.  
 Coal before shipment costs from South Africa’s  Richards Bay 
traded at $93.62 a metric ton last week, while Northwest
European coal was at $95.88, a  premium  of $2.26, IHS McCloskey
data show. Two months ago, there was a discount of $11.75 as
Asian demand drove South African prices to a 17-month high, the
data show. The premium will probably have to go even higher
before shipments to Europe accelerate, Barclays Capital said.  
 “You would need to go around $10, or above,” to get more
sustainable flows of spot cargoes from South Africa to Europe,
said  Amrita Sen , a London-based analyst at Barclays. At those
sorts of premiums “it makes sense for South Africa to swing
into Europe more,” she said.  
 European coal is rebounding from a slump of as much as 16
percent earlier this year amid a jump in prices for natural gas,
which competes with the solid fuel to generate power. European
industrial orders increased for a third month in April, the
European Union’s statistics office said yesterday. Industrial
production in Germany, Europe’s biggest economy, rose in April
by more than economists had forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  
 Implied Freight  
 While the European price includes a freight component, the
South African one does not. The price difference, known as
implied freight, is used by some traders to gauge trends and to
bet on or hedge against future prices in Europe.  
 When implied freight turned negative, it was a sign that
Europe didn’t need coal and the fuel was shipped to Asia,  Stefan Judisch , head of RWE AG’s supply and trading unit, said at a
conference in Kuala Lumpur on June 8. RWE, based in Essen, is
Germany’s second-biggest utility, after E.ON AG.  
 Profit from running coal-fired power plants for next year,
or the so-called clean-dark spread, is about 5.93 euros ($7.29)
a megawatt-hour, more than double the margin from burning
natural gas, Bloomberg data showed. The calculation is based on
German electricity prices, Dutch gas rates and emissions costs.  
 U.K. natural gas futures for July traded on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange have rallied 32 percent this year to 42.64 pence
a therm in London yesterday.  
 Reducing Supplies  
 South Africa cut coal shipments to the Atlantic region by
40 percent in the first five months of this year and boosted
shipments by 63 percent to Asia, according to data from
 mjunction Services Ltd. , a web-based trader backed by India’s
biggest steel producers.  
 Sales to the Atlantic countries, led by Italy, Spain,
Turkey and U.K. fell to 7.19 million tons in the first five
months of 2010 from about 12 million in a year-earlier period,
said the Kolkata, India-based trader.  
 Asian purchases rose to 16.6 million in the first five
months of this year from 10.18 million tons a year earlier, said
mJunction. Richards Bay shipped about 35 percent of its total
coal to India this year until May.  
 The facility is owned by South Africa’s largest exporters
of coal, including BHP Billiton Ltd., Anglo American Plc and
Xstrata Plc. The 27-member European Union burns the fuel for
about 30 percent of its power, according to Brussels-based lobby
group Euracoal.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dinakar Sethuraman  in Bangalore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net .
 Alistair Holloway  in London at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     RWE AG's supply and trading unit chief executive officer Stefan Judisch. Photographer: Goh Seng Chong/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
