-- European Industrial Orders Increase for Third Month on Intermediate Goods
-- Simone Meier
-- 2010-06-24T09:08:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/european-industrial-orders-increase-for-third-month-on-intermediate-goods.html

          
          
             European  industrial orders  increased
for a third month in April, led by demand for intermediate goods
such as car engines.  
 Orders  in the 16-nation euro area rose 0.9 percent from
March, when they jumped 5.1 percent, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said today.  Economists  had
forecast orders to increase 1.6 percent, the median of 18
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed. In the year, April
 industrial orders  rose 22.1 percent after increasing 20.3
percent in March.  
 The euro’s 7.7 percent drop against the dollar over the
past three months is making European exports more competitive
just as an Asian-led global recovery strengthens.  Volkswagen
AG ’s Audi luxury division said on June 22 that it’s stepping up
production to meet higher demand for some models. Still,
European manufacturing growth slowed in June after the Greek
debt crisis clouded the economic outlook.  
 “The continued strong global environment and the fall in
the euro should cushion the economy,” said  Nick Kounis , chief
European economist at Fortis Bank Nederland NV in Amsterdam.
“We expect to see  moderate growth  in the coming quarters after
what is likely to be a strong second-quarter outcome.”  
 The euro was little changed against the dollar after the
data, trading at $1.2273 at 10:05 a.m. in London, down 0.3
percent on the day.  
 Borrowing Costs  
 European policy makers last month agreed on an
unprecedented loan package for distressed countries after
concern about Greece’s fiscal crisis undermined investor
confidence and pushed up borrowing costs. While governments from
Spain to Italy have since pledged to step up budget cuts, the
euro continued to decline, falling 12 percent against the dollar
over the past month.  
 Reviving export orders helped the euro-area economy  gather
speed  in the first quarter from the previous three months as
households trimmed spending. The Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said on May 26 that it expects the
global economy to expand 4.6 percent this year, with China seen
growing more than 11 percent and India 8.3 percent.  
 PSA Peugeot Citroen , Europe’s second-biggest carmaker, said
on June 2 that it aims to achieve stable European sales this
year.  Lanxess AG , Germany’s largest publicly traded specialty-
chemicals company, on May 28 forecast a “significant”
improvement in full-year earnings on increasing Asian demand.  
 Global Recovery  
 “A global recovery for Audi is under way,” Audi Chief
Financial Officer  Axel Strotbek  said on June 22. China’s
“domestic engine keeps running and is now bringing a boom to
the rest of the world that certainly offsets the crisis in
part.”  
 Euro-area industrial orders for intermediate goods rose 1.7
percent in April from March, today’s report showed. Orders for
capital goods fell 0.8 percent in the month and those for
 durable consumer goods  decreased 0.9 percent. Orders advanced
1.1 percent excluding heavy transport equipment such as ships
and trains.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        