-- Alcentra Says Most Managers in Europe's $100 Billion CLO Market May Fail
-- Patricia Kuo
-- 2010-06-24T07:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/europe-s-clo-market-may-implode-on-failure-to-raise-funds-alcentra-says.html

          
          
             More than 80 percent of the
collateralized loan obligation managers in Europe may not
survive after raising no new funds since 2008, according to
 David Forbes-Nixon , chairman of  Alcentra Group Ltd. , Europe’s
largest CLO manager.  
 “Over the next 12 months there should be significant
consolidation,” Forbes-Nixon said in an interview in London.
“There will probably be only 10 to 12 survivors in Europe, out
of 60. If you haven’t got at least $3 billion under management,
you don’t have a viable business.”  
 CLO funds, which oversee about 85 billion euros ($104
billion) in Europe according to Fitch Ratings, rely on selling
bonds backed by leveraged loans. Demand for the securitized debt
froze in 2008 when investors shunned hard-to-value assets during
the worst financial crisis since the 1930s.  
 CLO managers like Alcentra, Babson Capital Management LLC,
Prudential Fixed Income, and Avoca Capital Holdings have taken
over portfolios of smaller rivals in the past year. About 50
percent of the CLO managers in Europe are “zombie” platforms
which are already showing little or no commitment to the
business, Fitch analyst Alastair Sewell wrote June 10.  
 Top Five  
 Alcentra, majority-owned by Bank of New York Mellon Corp.,
manages 32 CLOs in Europe and the U.S. The firm is set to take
over running the 300 million-euro Silver Birch CLO I BV from
WestLB AG.  
 Forbes-Nixon, formerly the chief executive officer and
chief investment officer of Barclays Capital Asset Management
who set up Alcentra in 2002, wants to grow the fund to $30
billion from $17 billion within five years to rank among the
top five sub investment-grade credit managers. He plans to
increase staff to 60 by the end of the year from 56.  
 Alcentra recommends clients add senior secured leveraged
loans, which may deliver about 10 percent return this year,
Forbes-Nixon said. The firm favors debt from cable,
telecommunications, and health-care companies. There may also be
opportunities in European distressed debt, where investors are
undervaluing companies emerging from restructuring situations,
Forbes-Nixon said.  
 Sales of European CLOs peaked at 35 billion euros in 2007,
according to Fitch. The market freeze may be “thawing” Fitch
said, and new issues “may be in development.”  In the U.S.,
Citigroup Inc. underwrote a $525 million CLO managed by WCAS
Fraser Sullivan Investment Management LLC in March, the first
CLO in a year.  
 “We are seeing a lot of institutional clients shorten the
list of managers they want to deal with from 10 to 15 three
years ago to three,” Forbes-Nixon said. “The winners in this
market consolidation won’t be just large CLO managers it will be
those who can invest across the capital structure.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Kuo  in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        