-- Euro May Extend Decline to 19-Month Low Against Pound: Technical Analysis
-- Ron Harui
-- 2010-06-24T23:25:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/euro-may-extend-decline-to-19-month-low-against-pound-technical-analysis.html

          
          
             The euro may weaken to a 19-month
low of 80.84 pence if it closes below a key level of support at
82.12 pence, RBC Capital Markets said, citing trading patterns.  
 The single currency’s three-month decline is pushing it
closer to that support, which represents a “cyclical” low
touched on June 7, said  George Davis , chief technical analyst in
Toronto at the unit of Canada’s largest lender. Other technical
indicators such as a stochastic oscillator also show the euro is
losing “upward momentum” versus the U.K. currency, he said.  
 “A daily close below this level would unleash a new phase
of bearish price momentum,” Davis wrote in a note to clients
this week, referring to 82.12 pence. Such a decline would be
“amplified by a break below the nearby level at 81.92, which
serves as 76.4 percent retracement” of the currency’s rally at
the end of 2008, he said, citing a series of numbers known as
the Fibonacci sequence.  
 The euro traded at 82.59 pence as of 8:24 a.m. in Tokyo,
having declined from this year’s high of 91.50 pence on March 1.
The single currency, which has lost 1.2 percent this week, last
traded below 80.84 pence in November 2008.  
 Should the euro decline beyond support at 82.12 pence and
then 81.92 pence, it may extend losses to 80.84 pence, which
represents the base of a descending channel, Davis wrote. The
channel’s base is a line connecting the lows of May 6 and June 7,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Support is a level
where buy orders may be clustered.  
 Fibonacci analysis is based on the theory that securities
tend to rise or fall by specific percentages after reaching a
new high or low. Key percentages include 23.6, 38.2, 50 and 61.8.
A breach of one level often implies an extension of the move to
the next.  
 In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Kathy Lien, director of currency research at online currency trader GFT Forex, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about the European debt crisis and the outlook for the euro.
     Lien, speaking from Sydney, also discusses the appointment of Julia Gillard as Australia’s prime minister and its implications for the nation's currency, China's yuan policy, and the outlook for the New Zealand and Canadian dollars. Lien spoke before Gillard was sworn in as prime minister.(Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Craig Ferguson, a currency hedge fund manager at Antipodean Capital Management, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about his forecast for the Australian dollar.
     Ferguson, speaking from Melbourne, also discusses the implications of Julia Gillard's appointment as Australia's prime minister on the nation's currency and proposed mining profits tax, and the outlook for the yuan. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
