-- Europe Should Ignore U.S. Call to Prolong Stimulus, Stanford's Taylor Says
-- Kim McLaughlin
-- 2010-06-24T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/europe-should-ignore-u-s-call-to-prolong-stimulus-at-g-20-taylor-says.html

          
          
             Europe should ignore U.S. calls for
continued stimulus and stick to austerity plans when Group of 20
leaders meet this weekend because budget cuts aren’t likely to
trigger a new recession, economist  John B. Taylor  said.  
 “You don’t need extra stimulus packages right now,”
Taylor, the Stanford University professor who created a rule to
guide monetary policy, said in an interview yesterday at a
central bankers conference in Oslo. “That is an important
message right now, especially with the G-20 meeting coming up.”  
 U.S. President  Barack Obama  is urging G-20 nations to
support the global economic recovery by focusing on growth,
while Germany and the U.K., are focusing on reducing budget
deficits, setting a course for conflict at the G-20 summit June
26-27 in Toronto.  
 “We should move quickly, expeditiously, toward
consolidation because the debts and deficits are too large and
will be a drag on the economy,” Taylor said. “It would be
beneficial not to have additional stimulus, but try to move
towards a budget consolidation. I think that would be good for
the recovery.”  
 U.K. Finance Minister  George Osborne  this week outlined the
biggest budget cuts in 50 years to trim a fiscal deficit equal
to 11 percent of gross domestic product. Germany is holding to
G-20 commitments on exit strategies from fiscal stimulus,
calling on the U.S. to join Europe in reducing spending.  
 Taylor, 63, has held government posts under two Republican
presidents. He was Treasury undersecretary for international
affairs from 2001 to 2005, during  George W. Bush ’s
administration, and a member of the President’s Council of
Economic Advisers from 1989 to 1991 under  George H.W. Bush .  
 ‘Not Appropriate’  
 European Union officials are designing new regulations to
prevent a repeat of the sovereign debt crisis that began when
Greece’s deficit ballooned to 13 percent of GDP, more than four
times the EU limit. European leaders last month hammered out a
750 billion-euro rescue program ($926 billion) for the region’s
weakest economies to bolster confidence in the euro.  
 Obama said in a June 16 letter to his counterparts that
they must avoid the “mistakes of the past” when economic
support was withdrawn prematurely. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  says “there is no alternative” to cutting deficits.  
 “Almost always consolidation occurs more slowly than
planned and so I think it’s not appropriate to worry too much
about them going too fast right now,” Taylor said. “I don’t
see a risk of deflation. I don’t see a risk of a double-dip,”
he said, referring to concerns the global economy will slide
back into recession.  
 Taylor has argued that the Federal Reserve’s low interest-
rate policy after the dot-com bubble burst in 2000 was the
principal cause of soaring U.S. house prices in the last decade.
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a January speech that the
Fed’s monetary policy after the 2001 recession was “reasonably
appropriate” and better regulation would have been more
effective than higher rates in curbing the boom.  
 The so-called Taylor Rule uses the divergence between
optimal levels of inflation and unemployment to estimate where
the benchmark interest rate should be. The rule suggests the
U.S. federal funds target rate should have been higher than it
actually was from 2001 to 2009.  
 The G-20 accounts for about 85 percent of global GDP. Its
members are Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, France,
Germany, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Mexico,
Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Turkey, the U.S., the U.K.
and the European Union.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Josiane Kremer  in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net 
 Kim McLaughlin  in Stockholm at 
 Kmclaughlin6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A file photo shows John B. Taylor, professor of economics at Stanford University and former undersecretary of the U.S. Treasury, speaking outside the Jackson Lake Lodge in Teton National Park near Jackson Hole, U.S. Photographer: Matthew Staver/Bloomberg News  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Linda Yueh, an economist at Oxford University, talks with Bloomberg's Maryam Nemazee about the outlook for this weekend's Group of 20 summit in Toronto and proposals for a global bank levy and a tax on securities transactions to clamp down on financial speculation.
     Yueh, speaking in London, also discusses the debate over austerity measures aimed at cutting budget deficits and stimulating global economic growth. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
