-- Sovereign Crisis Has Stoked Stability Risks, BOE Says
-- Jennifer Ryan
-- 2010-06-25T07:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/europe-s-debt-crisis-amplified-stability-threats-for-u-k-banks-boe-says.html

          
          
             The Bank of England said the
sovereign debt crisis in  Europe  has increased the risk of
instability in the U.K. financial system, and banks need to
raise more capital to guard against shocks.  
 “The speed with which Greece’s problems were transmitted
to other countries and markets highlighted persistent  fault
lines  in the global financial system,” the central bank said in
its Financial Stability Report today in London. “U.K. banks
face a number of challenges and need to maintain resilience in a
difficult environment.”  
 Investor concern  that countries including Greece will
struggle to reduce public deficits has raised banks’ borrowing
costs. U.K. banks face 800 billion pounds ($1.2 trillion) of
debt maturing by the end of next year. While the European Union
bailout plan helped alleviate the crisis, funding challenges may
prompt banks to limit lending to preserve capital, jeopardizing
the recovery, the  Bank of England  said.  
 “Market pressures have not yet abated,” it said. “There
is a risk that banks alleviate their own funding pressures by
further constraining credit conditions.”  
 The pound was little changed against the dollar today and
traded at $1.4943 at 8:11 a.m. in London. The yield on the 10-
year U.K. government bond rose 1 basis point to 3.39 percent.  
 ‘Inadequate’  
 EU officials last month agreed to a 750 billion-euro ($926
billion) rescue package for distressed nations after a rout in
bond markets. EU regulators are conducting stress tests on
lenders, and the Bank of  Spain  has pledged to publish the
results in a bid to bolster investor confidence. The Bank of
England said that “inadequate transparency” on sovereign
exposure led to “counterparty concerns and renewed strains in
bank funding markets.”  
 While British banks have less direct exposure to the
sovereign debt of  Greece , Spain,  Portugal  and Ireland than other
big European nations, today’s report said, they have an indirect
exposure through loans to German and French borrowers.  
 U.K. banks have loaned about 266 billion pounds to
borrowers in France and  Germany , who in turn have the largest
exposure in Europe to the four countries, creating a risk that
they may suffer if the sovereign debt crisis worsens.  
 “U.K. banks are exposed to risks from the international
financial system,” the report said. “These risks remain
considerable and have heightened over the past six months.”  
 Turmoil  
 The turmoil in Europe has undercut the recovery in
financial assets from damage wrought by the economic crisis,
today’s report said. The  S&P 500 (SPX)  stock index has dropped 3.7
percent this year and the U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX)  has fallen 5.7
percent.  
 A slowdown in the economy or higher  borrowing costs  will
put the finances of companies and households under increased
pressure, the report said. If banks become less tolerant of
breaches of lending terms, business failures will rise.
Commercial real estate is particularly exposed as it accounts
for half of corporate lending, the central bank said.  
 A slide in demand for U.K. assets may challenge British
banks’ ability to refinance debt. The 800 billion-pound
refinancing requirement through 2012 equates to more than 25
billion pounds every month, compared with a 15 billion-pound
monthly average from 2001 to 2007. The bank said replacing
maturing funding “remains a substantial challenge.”  
 Leverage  
 U.K. banks’ actions to shore up their capital base and
financial positions have improved their ability to withstand
shocks, the report said. Average leverage has fallen to 19 times
assets-to-capital from about 30 times at the end of 2008, while
so-called core Tier 1 capital rose 71 billion pounds to 273
billion pounds.  
 While lenders need to improve capital buffers further, an
“extended transition” would allow them to maintain lending
while they improve defences from shocks, the Bank of England
said. Firms can maintain lending while building up capital by
restricting dividends and payments to staff, it said.  
 “It is important that the transition allows banks to
maintain lending to the real economy,” the report said. “A
balance needs to be struck between maintaining bank resilience,
encouraging lending to support economic recovery, and gradually
moving toward higher levels of capital and liquidity.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 Jryan13@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        