-- Evenflo, Delta Lead Recall of 2.2 Million Cribs
-- Jeff Plungis
-- 2010-06-24T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/evenflo-delta-lead-recall-of-2-2-million-baby-cribs-for-safety-problems.html

          
          
             Evenflo Co., Delta Enterprise and
five child-furniture makers recalled 2.2 million cribs after
regulators documented dozens of infants who became trapped or
fell, the  U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission  said.  
 Seven of the eight recalls involve drop-side model cribs,
the agency said today in a statement. CPSC Chairman  Inez Tenenbaum  has described such cribs as a “deadly hazard” after
the agency documented 32 deaths since 2000 in those beds.  
 “This new recall announcement is part of a larger effort
by CPSC to clean up the marketplace,” Tenenbaum said in an e-
mailed statement. “Many of these recalled cribs have dangerous
drop sides.”  
 The agency issued a warning to parents last month, after
companies recalled more than 9 million cribs in the past five
years. The agency intends to issue federal regulations on crib
safety by the end of the year, Tenenbaum said. Those rules will
eliminate the drop-side design, she said today.  
 The U.S. has documented more than 250 incidents of crib
parts failing among the models being recalled today. The agency
said more than a dozen children became trapped, putting them at
risk of being strangled. Other cases resulted in falls. The most
serious injuries were a hospitalization after an infant became
unconsciousness and a broken collar bone.  
 Drop-side cribs are popular with parents because one side
can be raised or lowered on tracks, providing easier access to
the bed. Infants can suffocate or be strangled when the hardware
fails and a side detaches, creating a gap.  
 LaJobi, Jardine  
 LaJobi Inc., owned by  Kid Brands Inc. ; Bexco Enterprises
Inc.’s Million Dollar Baby unit; Jardine Enterprise Ltd.;
Simmons Juvenile Products; and Child Craft Industries Inc. also
recalled cribs. Consumers should stop using the products until
they receive a repair kit from the manufacturer to immobilize
the beds. Consumers can find a list of models and company
contacts on the CPSC’s website.  
 Evenflo, owned by private-equity firm Harvest Partners and
based in Miamisburg, Ohio, had 750,000 cribs recalled, the most
among the companies, and New York-based Delta had 747,000 cribs,
accounting for 68 percent of the recalled cribs. Child Craft
went out of business in 2009. Consumers should contact
Foundations Worldwide of Medina, Ohio, which bought the brand,
the CPSC said.  
 The Juvenile Products Manufacturers Association, which has
launched a crib-safety initiative, is also offering consumer
information on its  website . There’s a list of manufacturers and
downloadable guides to safe sleep on the site, the CPSC said in
its statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Plungis  in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Inez Tenenbaum, Chairman of the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission. Photographer: Mario Tama/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
