-- Ex-Brocade Chief Reyes Gets 18 Months for Backdating
-- Karen Gullo
-- 2010-06-24T19:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/ex-brocade-ceo-reyes-sentenced-to-18-months-for-backdating-stock-options.html

          
          
             Greg Reyes , former chief executive
officer at  Brocade Communications Systems Inc. , was sentenced to
18 months in prison for backdating employee stock-option grants
and hiding the practice from company auditors and shareholders.  
 U.S. District Judge  Charles Breyer  in San Francisco also
ordered Reyes today to pay a fine of $15 million and said he
must surrender by Sept. 10 to begin his term.  
 Reyes, 47, was found guilty of securities fraud and other
charges in March at his second trial stemming from stock-options
manipulation at Brocade, the biggest maker of switches for data-
storage networks.  
 “It is important to realize the integrity of the financial
markets greatly concerns millions of people,” Breyer said in
court today. “That integrity rests on the shoulders of CEOs and
CFOs to give a true accounting of the economic circumstances of
American companies.”  
 In 2007, Reyes was the first chief executive convicted by a
jury for options backdating in a broad government crackdown on
the practice. The first conviction was thrown out last year by a
federal appeals court that cited misconduct by prosecutors.  
 Hiding the backdated stock grants inflated the company’s
shares because the costs associated with the grants weren’t
reported to shareholders or regulators, prosecutors said.
Investors lost as much as $197.8 million in 2005 when they sold
shares that had fallen in value after the practice had been
uncovered and the company had to restate financial results,
prosecutors said in court filings.  
 Personally Profited  
 Reyes personally profited by at least $37 million on stock
sales he made while Brocade’s shares were artificially inflated
by backdating and should pay at least that in restitution,
prosecutors said.  
 Assistant U.S. Attorney Adam Reeves asked at today’s
hearing for a 37-month sentence.  
 “This was a clever swindle by a clever executive who
thought he would never get caught,” he said.  
 Reyes’s attorney,  Stephen Neal , pleaded for leniency.  
 “I find Greg Reyes a man of extraordinary integrity,”
Neal said. “I would trust him with everything in my life, from
my family to the shirt off my back.”  
 ‘Words Cannot Express’  
 In a courtroom that included Reyes’s family and more than
two dozen supporters, Reyes broke down in tears standing before
the judge, too overcome to read his prepared statement.
Instead, Neal read Reyes’s statement, saying in part, “I am a
shell of the man I once was.  Words cannot express how sorry I
am.”  
 The judge said he received more than 400 letters in support
of Reyes and had read them all.  
 “This is unpleasant to say Mr. Reyes, but you were not
honest,” Breyer said. “That is why you find yourself in this
position today.”  
 Stock options allow holders to buy shares at a later date,
usually at the trading price on the day they were granted.
Through backdating, companies change the grant date to a day
with a lower stock price, giving recipients built-in profits.
Unless disclosed and recorded as an expense, the practice is
illegal because it hides costs from shareholders and regulators.  
 Brocade’s former human resource manager,  Stephanie Jensen ,
was convicted of helping Reyes backdate options and was
sentenced to two months in prison. The company paid a $7 million
fine to resolve a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
lawsuit over backdating and $160 million to settle securities-
fraud claims by shareholders over stock-options backdating
practices.  
 Reyes was ousted from San Jose, California-based Brocade in
2005. He agreed to pay $12.5 million in October to settle a
company lawsuit over backdating. The company stopped paying his
legal bills for his criminal defense attorneys as part of the
settlement.  
 The case is U.S. v. Reyes, 06-556, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Pam MacLean in San Francisco at  pmaclean@pacbell.net .  
          
          


  


        