-- Fair Weather for Brazil Bonds as Less Rain Helps Crops, Reduces Inflation
-- Tal Barak Harif
-- 2010-06-24T13:31:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/fair-weather-for-brazil-bonds-as-less-rain-helps-crops-reduces-inflation.html

          
          
             The end to Brazil’s rainy season is
helping push bond yields to a one-year low.  
 Brazil this week reported  inflation  was the slowest in
eight months after a break in the rainstorms helped increase
production of tomatoes, potatoes and beans, which lowered prices
of the  staple crops . Slowing inflation helped drive down yields
on government fixed-rate bonds due in 2017 by 66 basis points to
12.39 percent from a three-month high of 13.05 percent on May 7,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield this week
touched 12.26 percent, the lowest since June 5, 2009.  
 “There’s a window of opportunity in the next weeks for
more benign inflation numbers,” said  Eduardo Castro , who helps
oversee 100 billion reais ($57 billion) in Sao Paulo at
Santander Asset Management, Brazil’s fifth-biggest fund manager.
“The market will be influenced by the possible positive
surprises in inflation.”  
 The bond  rally  in Latin America’s biggest economy reverses
a slump in April that sent up yields on the 2017 bonds by 10
basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, as heavier-than-normal
rains in Brazil’s countryside ruined crops and sparked the
fastest food inflation in two years. Castro said he’s bought
government bonds due in 2012 and 2014 in part as a bet that the
 inflation rate  will keep falling in the next two months after
dropping to 5.1 percent in the 12 months through mid-June.  
 Brazil’s  monthly inflation rate  declined to 0.19 percent
through mid-June, the lowest in eight months, from 0.63 percent
in the previous 30 days, government data show.  
 CPI-Linked Bonds  
 Easing concern about inflation over the rest of the year is
also damping demand for short-term notes linked to the consumer
price index. Yields on two-year government debt linked to the
CPI climbed to 6.83 percent on June 15, or 42 basis points more
than yields on inflation-linked bonds due in 2017, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the widest -- or most
inverted --the so-called spread has been since November 2008.
The gap was 32 basis points yesterday.  
 “Brazil seems to have found an inflation ‘sweet spot,’”
 Guilherme Loureiro , an economist at Barclays Capital in Sao
Paulo wrote in a June 22 research note. “Just as food inflation
pushed headline inflation up earlier this year, it is now
dragging it down.”  
 Prices for potatoes and tomatoes tumbled as much as 16
percent in the month through mid-June, sending food costs down
0.42 percent, the biggest drop since June 2006, the statistics
agency said on June 22.  
 Above Target  
 The annual  inflation rate  has dropped from a one-year high
of 5.3 percent in April, when the heaviest rains in 15 years
damaged vegetable crops in Sao Paulo, Brazil’s largest
agricultural producing state. El Nino, a weather pattern that
forms in the Pacific and affects climate worldwide, caused
rainfall to pick up last year and peak in January, according to
Sao Paulo-based forecasting firm Somar Meteorologia. Food and
beverages are  the largest component  of Brazil’s consumer price
index, accounting for 23 percent.  
 Inflation, while slowing, remains above the government’s
annual target of 4.5 percent as the fastest economic growth in
15 years pushes up wages and consumer demand.  Outstanding bank
loans  increased 2.1 percent, the fastest pace in 10 months, to
1.5 trillion reais ($830 billion) in May, the central bank said
yesterday.  
 Overnight Rate  
 “There is very strong activity,” said  Paulo Vieira  da
Cunha, a former central bank director who is now a partner at
Tandem Global Partners LLC in New York. “You can get some
seasonal change on inflation, but I don’t think it makes a big
difference because you see these trends on activity
undiminished.”  
 In the overnight interest-rate futures market, the yield on
contract due in January, the most active in Sao Paulo trading,
held at 11.3 percent, signaling traders expect central bank
President  Henrique Meirelles  to raise the benchmark rate to
about 12 percent by year-end. Meirelles has boosted the rate to
10.25 percent from a record low 8.75 percent in April to rein in
inflation.  
 The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries widened two basis points to 240
at 9:28 a.m. in New York, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index.
The real fell 0.2 percent to 1.7908 per dollar. The currency has
lost 2.6 percent this year.  
 The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against default for
five years rose one basis point to 130, according to data
compiled by CMA DataVision. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements.  
 ‘Whatever Is Needed’  
 Economists  lowered their forecast  for the inflation rate
this year to 5.6 percent from 5.7 percent in May, according to
the median estimate in a central bank survey published June 21.
Inflation may slow in coming months as food price increases
ease, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television on June 11.  
 Santander’s Castro said yields on bonds due in 2012 may
drop to as low as 11.9 percent in the next few weeks from 12.2
percent yesterday. That yield would be the lowest since April.  
 “The central bank will do whatever is needed to avoid
inflation risks,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        