-- Fed Signals Low Inflation, Europe Crisis to Delay Rate Increase
-- Scott Lanman
-- 2010-06-24T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/fed-signals-low-inflation-europe-woes-to-push-rate-rise-further-into-2011.html

          
          
             The Federal Reserve signaled that
slowing inflation and Europe’s debt crisis will push an interest
rate increase further into 2011.  
 In a statement hours after a government report showed new-
home sales in May plunged 33 percent, the Fed said yesterday
that “underlying inflation has trended lower” and repeated a
pledge to keep the benchmark interest rate near zero for “for
an extended period.”  
 A slowdown in private payrolls and a decline in stock
prices are among the reasons the Fed may put off policy
tightening and the unwinding of a $2.35 trillion balance sheet.
The record stimulus has prompted some policy makers, including
Kansas City President  Thomas Hoenig , to warn of an eventual
surge in inflation.  
 “The time for a rise in interest rates is even further off
than we may have thought,” said former Fed Governor  Lyle Gramley , a senior economic adviser with Potomac Research Group
in Washington. “It’s unlikely they will move before the latter
half of next year.”  
 Policy makers won’t raise rates until the first quarter of
2011, based on the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists this month. The European crisis has prompted analysts
at Barclays Capital Inc., Credit Suisse, UBS AG and Deutsche
Bank AG to push back by several months their predictions for a
Fed rate increase.  
 ‘Tight Credit’  
 The Fed said the labor market is “improving gradually,”
changing April’s assessment that it was “beginning to
improve.” Consumer spending still “remains constrained” by
joblessness and “tight credit,” the central bank said.
Bernanke is trying to reduce a jobless rate that’s close to a
26-year high. The recovery is “likely to be moderate for a
time,” the Fed said.  
 Hoenig dissented from the decision for the fourth straight
meeting, reiterating his view that the low-rate pledge may fuel
asset-price bubbles and limit the central bank’s flexibility to
raise borrowing costs.  
 “They’re trying to signal they’re comfortable the recovery
is under way, while still admitting to the fact the recovery
faces headwinds,” said  Paul Ballew , a former Fed economist
who’s now a senior vice president at Nationwide Mutual Insurance
Co. in Columbus, Ohio. “They want to make sure they don’t sound
Pollyannaish.”  
 The 10-year Treasury note’s yield dropped yesterday five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 3.12 percent. The
dollar weakened to $1.2311 against the euro from $1.2271 on June
22, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3 percent to
1,092.04, erasing a gain that followed the Fed statement.  
 ‘Trended Lower’  
 The central bank repeated that inflation is “likely to be
subdued for some time.” The Fed also said that “prices of
energy and other commodities have declined somewhat in recent
months, and underlying inflation has trended lower.”  
 Prices in April rose 1.2 percent from a year earlier under
the Fed’s preferred index, which excludes food and energy costs,
the slowest pace since 2001.  
 The Labor Department’s consumer price index fell 0.2
percent in May after a 0.1 percent drop in April, the first
consecutive declines since 2008. Excluding food and energy, the
core rate rose 0.9 percent in May from a year earlier, matching
the smallest year-over-year gain since 1966.  
 “This reinforces the no-rush-to-tighten message from the
extended period line,” said  James O’Sullivan , chief economist
at MF Global Ltd., in New York. “They are more worried about
inflation being too low than too high at this point.”  
 Luring Shoppers  
 Retailers such as Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart
Stores Inc., are cutting prices and offering discounts to lure
shoppers. Cincinnati-based  Kroger Co ., the biggest U.S. grocery-
store chain, lured shoppers with discounts on dairy and meats in
the quarter ended May 22.  
 The slide in inflation comes as rising investor concern
about Greece’s debt prompted European governments early last
month to backstop the euro with a rescue fund of almost $1
trillion.  
 While Bernanke said June 9 the European crisis would have a
“modest” effect on the U.S. assuming financial markets
“continue to stabilize,” Fed Governor  Daniel Tarullo  told
Congress in May that the situation has the potential to stall
the global economy.  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold the bonds of
Greece and Spain instead of Germany increased as signs of
a slower economic recovery may have added to the appeal of the
safest fixed-income assets. The Greek spread rose to 772 basis
points, the highest since May 7, while Spain’s climbed to 189
basis points, after a report yesterday showed growth in Europe’s
services and manufacturing industries slowed.  
 Global Banking  
 “The real concern is that the tightening of financial
conditions in Europe infects the global market and the European
banking problem becomes a global banking problem,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in Stamford,
Connecticut and a former Fed researcher.  
 At the April meeting, policy makers debated when and how
fast to sell $1.1 trillion of mortgage-backed securities that
were purchased to lower home-loan rates and boost the economy.
Fed officials have continued preparing for an eventual
tightening of credit. Last week, the central bank held its first
test auction of term deposits, a tool to help drain hundreds of
billions of dollars from the banking system.  
 The Fed may have to abandon the planning of its so-called
exit strategy to resume the asset purchases that it concluded in
March, said  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist with CIBC
World Markets in Toronto.  
 “You need to be very aggressive still on all the policy
tools” to get the economy to strengthen, Shenfeld said in an
interview with Tom Keene on Bloomberg Radio.  
 In addition to keeping rates low for an “an extended
period,” policy makers “could well end up having to go into
another round of bond buying.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The record stimulus has prompted some policy makers, including Kansas City President Thomas Hoenig, to warn of an eventual surge in inflation. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
