-- Argentine `Unpredictability' to Repel Investors After Debt Swap
-- Drew Benson
-- 2010-06-24T16:25:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/fernandez-unpredictability-repels-investors-after-argentina-s-debt-swap.html

          
          
             Argentina may fail to revive
interest from companies seeking to invest in South America’s
second-biggest economy even after concluding an $18.3 billion
debt restructuring offer.  
 “The thing investors hate the most is unpredictability,”
said  Alan Stoga , vice chairman of the Council of the Americas
and president of New York-based Zemi Communications LLC, whose
clients include Argentine manufacturers and agriculture
companies. The government lacks “prudent and predictable”
policies, he said in a June 22 phone interview.  
 Foreign direct investment  in Argentina totaled $4.9 billion
in 2009, compared with $26 billion in Brazil and $17 billion in
Chile, according to the United Nations Economic Commission for
Latin America. Brazil is the largest economy in South America
followed by Argentina, Venezuela, Colombia and Chile, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Caps on utility prices,  inflation  running above 20 percent
and the government’s takeover of private companies and pension
funds will deter investment in business, said Banco de la Ciudad
de Buenos Aires President  Federico Sturzenegger  in a June 17
interview in Buenos Aires.  
 “The government has a very intrusive attitude toward the
markets,” said Sturzenegger, who was appointed to run the
country’s third-largest state-run bank by opposition leader and
Buenos Aires Mayor  Mauricio Macri . “There’s a lot of
institutional uncertainty.”  
 2001 Default  
 Economy Minister  Amado Boudou  said in an April 14 interview
that the debt swap would enable Argentina to tap international
credit markets for the first time since a 2001 default on $95
billion of bonds, cut companies’ borrowing costs and draw
investment. Ministry spokesman Sergio Poggi declined to comment
for this story when contacted by Bloomberg.  
 Boudou said yesterday that the restructuring, which ended
June 22, exceeded the government’s expectations by attracting
creditors holding 66 percent of the $18.3 billion of eligible
debt left out of a 2005 exchange.  
 Argentina’s $330 billion economy drew about as much
investment in 2009 as Peru, whose gross domestic product is $130
billion, the Santiago-based UN commission said last month. The
government expects Argentina’s GDP to grow 5 percent this year.  
 Repsol YPF  SA Chief Executive Officer  Antonio Brufau  told
reporters in April the Madrid-based company, which faces price
controls in Argentina, wants to reduce its stake in local unit
YPF “sooner rather than later” to expand elsewhere, including
Brazil.  Metrogas SA , the Argentine natural-gas distributor
controlled by BG Group PLC, filed for bankruptcy June 17, saying
the rate freeze hurt the company’s finances.  
 Energy Regulations  
 BG, the U.K.’s third-largest gas producer, shuttered its
Buenos Aires office a year ago. Argentina seized state airline
Aerolineas Argentinas SA from Spanish tour operator Grupo
Marsans in 2008, the same year it nationalized the $24 billion
pension fund industry.  
 Fernandez, 57, opened the debt swap May 3, five years after
her husband offered creditors about 30 cents on the dollar, the
harshest restructuring terms since at least World War II,
according to  Arturo Porzecanski , an international finance
professor at American University in Washington.  
 Since the terms of the swap were announced April 15, the
 yield  investors demand to buy Argentine bonds over U.S.
Treasuries has climbed 194 basis points, or 1.94 percentage
points, to 7.95 percentage points. The spread for major  emerging
market economies  has climbed 94 basis points to 3.25 percentage
points over the same period. Benchmark dollar bonds due in 2015
declined today, as U.S. stocks slid, pushing the yield up 24
basis points to 13.02 percent at 12:03 p.m. New York time. The
price dropped 0.75 cent to 79.23 cents on the dollar.  
 ‘What’s Next?’  
 Argentina’s debt restructuring “would have to be the
beginning of a policy shift in order to attract FDI and improve
borrowing costs,” said  Siobhan Morden , a strategist with RBS
Securities in a June 16 interview from Stamford, Connecticut.  
 “The question now for the Economy Ministry is ‘what’s
next?’” said Morden. “What’s going to be done to address the
domestic distortions in terms of heavily subsidized sectors and
data manipulation?”  
 A successful swap will allow  Pampa Energia SA , the
country’s biggest energy holding company, to access capital
markets at “reasonable rates,” Chairman  Marcelo Mindlin  said
in a June 14 interview in Buenos Aires.  
 “We are going to be among the first to be ready to tap the
market,” Mindlin said. “When Argentina can go back to the
market again and can issue debt at reasonable yields, I think
that’s going to be very important for Pampa.”  
 Volkswagen Investments  
 To be sure, some companies are moving forward with
investment plans.  Volkswagen Argentina SA  will announce a $150
million investment to boost production of gear boxes for its
automobiles in the ‘coming days,’ spokesman Jose Luis Reidy
said. The company produces 8 percent of the country’s vehicles.  
 Annual inflation reached a four-year high of 10.7 percent
in May, according to the national statistics institute.
Economists and politicians, including former central bank
President Alfonso Prat-Gay, say the government is underreporting
inflation. Consumer prices may rise 26 percent this year -- the
second fastest in the world after Venezuela -- from 15.3 percent
in 2009, according to Buenos Aires-based company Ecolatina.  
 Inflation has led Argentine union leaders to demand the
biggest wage increase in more than 15 years, with sugar-cane
harvesters grabbing a 43 percent pay raise and telephone workers
striking for a 35 percent increase.  
 Buenos Aires  Stock Exchange  President  Adelmo Gabbi  said he
expects the government to change rules to help lure more
investment.  
 Capital Controls  
 Regulations put in place in 2005 require international
investors to deposit 30 percent of the funds they bring into
Argentina with the central bank for a year. The move prompted
MSCI Inc. to remove Argentina from its benchmark emerging-market
index in June 2009, assigning it frontier status along with the
world’s least developed markets, including Bulgaria and Kenya.  
 “After the swap, the government will undertake policies to
attract foreign capital and the first step should be to lift all
barriers,” said Gabbi, 66, in a June 15 interview. “It’s
indispensable to clear the road so that international investors
begin to look at Argentina again.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Economy minister of Argentina Amado Boudou. Photographer: Diego Levy/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
