-- Fitch Says Higher Philippine Spending, Revenue May Boost Growth, Ratings
-- Karl Lester M. Yap
-- 2010-06-24T03:53:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/fitch-says-higher-philippine-spending-revenue-may-boost-growth-ratings.html

          
          
             The Philippine government’s plan to
increase spending and revenue may boost growth and lead to
higher credit ratings, Fitch Ratings said.  
 “If the government spent the extra revenues effectively,
it could support the economy’s long-term growth prospects in a
way that could lead to a sustainable rise in incomes and higher
ratings in future,”  Andrew Colquhoun , Hong Kong-based head of
Asia-Pacific sovereigns at Fitch, said in an e-mailed reply to
questions from Bloomberg News today.  
 The government raised its 2010 spending budget for public
works, salaries and debt payments to a record 1.62 trillion
pesos ($35 billion) from a previous forecast of 1.58 trillion
pesos, Budget Undersecretary  Laura Pascua  said in an interview
yesterday. Revenue, including gains from the sale and lease of
assets, may climb to 1.32 trillion pesos compared with an
earlier estimate of 1.28 trillion pesos, she said.  
 President-elect  Benigno Aquino , who takes over from  Gloria Arroyo  this month, has pledged to cut poverty in a nation where
the World Bank estimates one in every four people live on less
than $1.25 a day. Still, Colquhoun said it would be
“preferable” if the government raises more revenue to allow it
to spend “without running a sizeable deficit.”  
 The Philippine peso fell a third day, declining 0.1 percent
to 46.085 per dollar at 11:24 a.m. in Manila. Four-year bond
yields traded near a two-week high.  
 Wary on Deficit  
 “We’re still wary about the deficit, especially with the
stand of the new administration not to impose new taxes,” said
 Michael Joseph Delfino , head of fixed-income trading of local-
currency debt at Metropolitan Bank & Trust Co. in Manila. “If
you ask me, that 40 billion pesos of additional revenue should
be spent on trying to plug the deficit.”  
 Philippine policy makers expect the budget shortfall to be
little changed at 297.2 billion pesos this year from a record
298.5 billion pesos in 2009. That’s more than the 293.2 billion-
peso gap forecast earlier. The five-month deficit widened to
162.1 billion pesos, exceeding the first-half target.  
 This year’s budget gap is estimated at 3.6 percent of gross
domestic product, from 3.9 percent last year, according to
government forecasts. Fitch predicts the deficit will be 4
percent of GDP, excluding asset sales.  
 The higher spending plans and wider deficit forecast for
this year is “in line” with Fitch’s expectations and won’t
affect the country’s BB rating, which is two levels below
investment grade, Colquhoun said.  
 Economic expansion  in the Southeast Asian nation may
accelerate to a range of 5 percent to 6 percent this year from
1.1 percent in 2009, officials predicted earlier this month. The
$167 billion economy expanded 7.3 percent last quarter, the
fastest pace in almost three years.  
 “There should be some move to reduce fiscal stimulus and
cut the deficit especially if the government is confident the
economy’s recovery is on track,” said  Vishnu Varathan , an
economist at Forecast Pte in Singapore. “Given that there are
global concerns on budget deficits and debt positions, there may
be a case to hold back a bit in spending so the Philippines can
show it is making some progress in managing its finances.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Karl Lester M. Yap  in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        