-- Flirting With Gok Wan; Giving a Chocolate-Clad iPad: Food Buzz
-- Richard Vines
-- 2010-06-24T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/flirting-with-gok-wan-giving-a-chocolate-clad-ipad-food-buzz.html

          
          
             Taste of London  was packed as
usual, with chefs such as  Heston Blumenthal  drawing crowds for
the cookery demonstrations during the event in Regent’s Park.  
 Adam Byatt of Trinity won Best Dish for his pig’s trotters
on toasted pain Poilane, fried quail egg, sauce gribiche and
crackling. My favorites included  Gary Rhodes ’s white tomato
soup and anything from Le Gavroche, where chef Michel Roux Jr.
and director Silvano Giraldin were in attendance most of the
time. Celebrities included the TV style guru Gok Wan,
accompanied in the mean streets of the British Airways VIP
hospitality site by two man-mountain heavies. He accused me of
flirting with him. I think he may have been working out.  
 For the woman who has everything: Stefan Magdalinski
wanted to give his partner Kay Chung an iPad with that extra
something.  
 He contacted  Paul A Young Fine Chocolates , in London, and
got it encased in carbon-frozen chocolate. He tells the story
here:  http://aheadrobot.com/2010/06/12/ipad-unchocolateboxing/ .
The iPad was unharmed, which is more than I can say for the
iPhone I dropped. The screen broke and I returned to the
BlackBerry fold.  
 The  Marine Conservation Society  is holding an event at
Soseki at 5:30 p.m. on June 29 to focus on sustainable fish in
the City. Sushi will be served. While entry is free, a donation
of 10 pounds ($14.92) is encouraged.  
 Silvena Rowe is to take over the restaurant at the Mayfair
Hotel and plans a menu featuring U.K. produce with an Eastern
Mediterranean twist, so Caesar Salad will come with shoarma
spiced chicken and the crispy squid will feature a cumin crust.
Some of the recipes will come from “Purple Citrus & Sweet
Perfume” (Random House) the new book of Rowe, who was born in
Plovdiv (to a Bulgarian mother and a Turkish father). Opening
is scheduled for later this year, with designs by  Martin
Brudnizki .  
 Chef  Rene Redzepi , winner of the World’s Best Restaurant
award for Noma, is concocting a book on the venue and the
philosophy behind his cuisine. “Noma: Time & Place in Nordic
Cuisine” is scheduled to be published by Phaidon Press Ltd. on
Sept. 20. Redzepi will make an international tour to promote
the book and plans to visit the U.K. in late November.  
 The opening of Koffmann’s has been delayed until July 15
from late June. Work is continuing on chef  Pierre Koffmann ’s
restaurant, which replaces the Boxwood Cafe, below the Berkeley
Hotel. For reservations, tel. +44-20-7235-1010.  
 Bocca di Lupo, the popular pan-Italian eatery in Soho, has
a little sister, also in Soho.  Gelupo , at 7 Archer Street,
serves ice cream in flavors such as ricotta, coffee and honey;
and pine nut and fennel seed. Pasta, sauces and sausages are
also available. Information:  http://gelupo.com/gelateria.php .  
 Wright Brothers, known for its oysters at Borough Market,
plans to open a three-story venue on Kingly Street. Wright
Brothers Soho, with a seafood restaurant and bar, is expected
to start welcoming diners and drinkers in November.  
 If you’re tired of paying high prices for wine in
restaurants, the  BYO Wine Club  might be for you. The opening
membership costs 75 pounds and that buys you free or cut-price
corkage in participating restaurants. The list is limited at
present so don’t assume it’s au revoir to inflated prices.  
 The wait soon may be over to hear which chef will enter  45
Park Lane , the Dorchester Collection’s planned hotel on the
site of the Playboy Club. Speculation centers on Los Angeles
star  Wolfgang Puck , who told me in January that he was in talks
to open a branch of Cut, his steak house at the Beverly
Wilshire. The Dorchester said that there are no immediate plans
for an announcement and declined to confirm it was Puck.  
 “Hix Oyster & Chop House” (Quadrille, 25 pounds) is more
than just a recipe book for the Smithfield restaurant. It also
offers reflections on food by  Mark Hix , a chef as influential
as any in London today, plus the story of De Beauvoir Smoked
Salmon -- Hix Cure, which he smokes in his back garden. Well,
he has up until now. Selfridges has installed a smokery on its
roof to serve the in-store Hix restaurant and the Food Hall.
The book is beautifully photographed by Jason Lowe.  
 Daniel Boulud  was on hand to supervise the creation of his
foie gras-and-truffle burger at Bar Boulud on June 20. The
burger is only sold on Sunday nights, doesn’t appear on the
menu and it’s first-come, first-served. The price? 20 pounds.  
 Tuscan brothers Max and Federico Sali -- proteges of the
chef  Giorgio Locatelli  -- plan to open their own Italian
restaurant in Pimlico at the end of next month. Tinello will
take over the site of L’Incontro, at 87 Pimlico Road. Locatelli
and his wife Plaxy are backing the new restaurant.  
 Skylon  is presenting Brazilian cuisine as part of  Festival
Brazil  at the Southbank Centre. Jose Barattino is guest chef.
The Kerala Carnival will be held on the nearby Riverside
Walkway on July 7-8. The south Indian state’s cuisine,
handicrafts, music and dance will be celebrated.  
 Fans of the Savoy Grill will be pleased to hear that the
hotel is scheduled to reopen on Oct. 10 after being closed for
refurbishment since December 2007.  
 ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Richard Vines  in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The foie gras and truffle burger at Bar Boulud in London. The dish doesn't appear on the menu and is only available on Sunday night. Photographer: Richard Vines/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Kay Chung reveals her chocolate-covered i-Pad in London. The treat was a gift from her boyfriend. Photographer: Stefan Magdalinski/Nudge PR via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Chef Mark Hix with his Smoker on the Roof of Selfridges Oxford Street London. Hix smokes fish to be served  in his restaurant Hix Restaurant & Champagne Bar and in the store at Selfridges. Photographer: Alan Davidson/Selfridges via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Chef Pierre Koffmann  
                       
                         
                           Network London via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Chef Pierre Koffmann. U.K. chefs are betting that Koffmann’s , L’Anima and Marcus Wareing
will be among the London restaurants that gain a star. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Chef Pierre Koffmann. U.K. chefs are betting that Koffmann’s , L’Anima and Marcus Wareing
will be among the London restaurants that gain a star. Source: Network London via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Chef Rene Redzepi outside his restaurant Noma in Copenhagen. The Danish chef will visit London next month to promote his book about the restaurant. Photographer: Richard Vines/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Chef Heston Blumenthal demonstrates the art of barbecue at Taste of London restaurant festival in London. The chef is known for his culinary alchemy. Source: House PR via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
