-- Ford Plans $450 Million Thai Plant After Anti-Government Riots
-- Anuchit Nguyen
-- 2010-06-24T05:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/ford-plans-450-million-factory-in-thailand-after-anti-government-riots.html

          
          
             Ford Motor Co.  said it will build a
$450 million car factory in Thailand, its first wholly owned
plant in the country, undeterred by fatal anti-government
protests in Bangkok earlier this year.  
 The automaker will make Focus cars for domestic and export
markets at the factory, which is due to open in 2012, it said in
a statement distributed ahead of a Bangkok briefing today. The
plant in Rayong province, 200 kilometers east of the capital,
will have an initial capacity of 150,000 cars a year.  
 Ford delayed the plant announcement in April after Prime
Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  imposed a state of emergency amid
deadly rioting. The resumption of the plan reinforces Thailand’s
role as regional automaking center at a time when strikes over
pay have disrupted production at Honda Motor Co. and Toyota
Motor Corp. plants in China.  
 “As China faces labor shortages and higher wages, Thailand
will be among Asia’s most attractive destinations for new
investments by automakers,” said  Charl Kengchon , managing
director of  Kasikorn Research Center Co. , a unit of Thailand’s
third-biggest bank. “Thailand has the most developed
infrastructure for the auto industry in the region.”  
 Toyota and Honda this week halted production at factories
in southern China after suppliers’ plants were closed by strikes.
Labor disputes have spread in China since Honda agreed to raise
wages at a parts-maker by 24 percent to end a stoppage.  
 Asian Strategy  
 Ford’s new factory in Thailand will create 2,200 jobs at
the automaker and a further 8,800 at suppliers, the Dearborn,
Michigan-based company said.  
 “We do see a lot of potential for Ford as we plan to bring
more products into Thailand and the region,”  Joe Hinrichs ,
president, Ford Asia Pacific & Africa, said at a briefing in
Bangkok today. “We need additional capacity as we add more
products into these markets. Thailand will play a critical part
in Ford’s strategy.”  
 Ford and Japanese partner  Mazda Motor Corp.  have already
invested about $1.5 billion in pickup truck and passenger-car
factories in Thailand, according to the website of the venture,
 Auto Alliance (Thailand) Co.  The venture last year opened a $500
million passenger-car plant, its second facility in the country.  
 Toyota , Honda Motor Co. and General Motors Co. have also
built plants in Thailand, Southeast Asia’s second-biggest
 economy , lured by tax incentives and demand amid a domestic
population of 67 million. Automakers may produce a record 1.6
million vehicles in the country this year, 60 percent more than
in 2009, according to  Kasikorn Research.   
 Rising Auto Output  
 Thai auto production doubled to 620,116 vehicles in the
first five months as low borrowing costs boosted domestic sales
and a global recovery increased overseas shipments, the Thai
Automotive Club, a trade group, said on May 17.  
 Anti-government protests have had little effect on auto
production as rallies have mainly happened in Bangkok.
Demonstrators clashed with police during rallies in the capital
from March to May, leading to at least 89 deaths.  
 The plant will be built in Rayong on land owned by  Hemaraj
Land & Development Pcl , Thailand’s biggest industrial developer
by market value, said Raj Nair, vice president for operations
for Ford’s Asia Pacific and Africa region. Hemaraj  shares  gained
as much as 4.2 percent to 1.5 baht in Bangkok trading, headed
for their highest close since January 2004.  
 The factory, which will cover about 70 acres (28 hectares),
will be close to the existing Auto Alliance plant, Ford said.  
 “The highly flexible plant is the latest proof of our
aggressive expansion strategy in the Asia Pacific and Africa
region,” Hinrichs said at the briefing. “Thailand has worked
hard to become a center of excellence in the global auto
industry and will be an integral component driving the continued
growth in Asia.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anuchit Nguyen  in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        