-- Former Putin Ally Kasyanov Warns West of Medvedev's Modernization Drive
-- Lucian Kim
-- 2010-06-24T14:19:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/former-putin-ally-kasyanov-warns-west-of-medvedev-s-modernization-drive.html

          
          
             The U.S. and European Union should
be “more principled” in dealing with Russia and not fall for
President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s talk of modernization, said  Mikhail Kasyanov , who served as prime minister during  Vladimir Putin ’s
presidency.  
 Western governments wish to see a split between Medvedev
and his mentor Putin because of a desire to repair relations,
Kasyanov said in an interview in Moscow yesterday. Putin, who
handpicked Medvedev as his successor, became prime minister
after the 2008 elections.  
 “The West sees in Medvedev a source of modernization and
change,” Kasyanov, 52, said. “But nothing will happen because
there’s no gap between him and Putin.”  
 Medvedev, aiming to attract foreign technology and capital
to Russia, is on a three-day trip to Silicon Valley and
Washington. The blogging, tweeting 44-year-old meets  Barack Obama  in the White House today as part of a “reset” of
relations between the two countries declared by the U.S.
president last year.  
 “Nothing can happen in this country unless it first comes
from Putin’s mouth,” Kasyanov said. “Putin has not once used
the word ‘modernization.’”  
 Kasyanov Probed  
 Kasyanov , a former finance minister, ran the government
during Putin’s first four-year term as president. Putin fired
him less than a month before the 2004 presidential elections
amid reports that Kasyanov was plotting to take over the
presidency if a revote was called because of insufficient voter
turnout. Putin won reelection with 71 percent of the vote and 64
percent voter turnout, according to  official results .  
 In July 2005, Russia’s chief prosecutor opened a criminal
investigation into Kasyanov and threatened to charge him with
fraud and abuse of trust. Kasyanov, who had said he may run for
president in 2008, was suspected of buying a $100 million
country home and 11 hectares of land from the government at a
fraction of its value while premier. He denied any wrongdoing
and charges were never brought.  
 Kasyanov on May 24 this year testified on behalf of OAO
Yukos Oil Co. owner  Mikhail Khodorkovsky  and his former business
partner  Platon Lebedev , Interfax reported. The two men, already
in jail for tax evasion and fraud, are now on trial in Moscow
for stealing 350 million tons of oil from Yukos.  
 Kasyanov told the Moscow court he’d confronted Putin over
the arrest of Khodorkovsky in 2003 and said Yukos, which sold
oil to its units below market prices, was following a common
practice used by all Russian crude producers, Interfax said.  
 Retake Presidency  
 Now the head of a consulting firm, Kasyanov was
disqualified from running as an opposition candidate in the 2008
presidential elections on a technicality.  
 “We won’t participate in any legalization of Putin’s next
term, as we understand it will be an imitation of an election,”
Kasyanov said about parliamentary elections next year and a
presidential vote in 2012. “I have no doubt that Putin has
already decided to take back the presidency.”  
 Putin, 57, relinquished the presidency to Medvedev in 2008
because the constitution prohibits three consecutive terms. In
his first year in office, Medvedev pushed through a
constitutional change extending the presidential term to six
years from four, fueling speculation Putin was planning to
return for another 12 years in 2012. Both Putin and Medvedev
have kept open the option of running again.  
 ‘No Fight’  
 Kasyanov skewered the notion that liberals and hardliners
are battling for influence behind the Kremlin walls.  
 “There is no fight among clans because they don’t exist,”
he said. “There is the head of the ‘power vertical,’ Vladimir
Putin, and he calls the shots.”  
 After the 2004 elections, Putin tried to find a new job for
his former premier, offering him leadership of the Security
Council, the city of Moscow or a new transnational bank,
Kasyanov wrote in his 2009 book “Without Putin.”  
 Kasyanov said he was already disillusioned by Putin’s legal
assault on Yukos and Khodorkovsky  starting in 2003. He
definitively decided to leave government after Putin used
the September 2004 terrorist attack on a school in Beslan
to abolish gubernatorial elections and restrict non-
governmental organizations and the political opposition.  
 “For three-and-a-half years I believed we were doing the
right thing, that we both were dedicated to building democracy
and a normal market economy, a normal European country,” said
Kasyanov. “The real Putin isn’t a Soviet-era official evolving
into a builder of democracy but a secret KGB agent who didn’t
change his approach.”  
 Western governments shouldn’t close their eyes to human
rights violations in Russia and insist that the country live up
to its own constitution, said Kasyanov.  
 “We’d like to see a more principled stance,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucian Kim  in Moscow at 
 lkim3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Russian President Dmitry Medvedev is on a three-day trip to Silicon Valley and
Washington. Photographer: Johannes Eisele/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
