-- Francesca's Frills Spur U.S. Expansion as Retail Clothing Chain Mulls IPO
-- Lauren Coleman-Lochner
-- 2010-06-24T17:29:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/francesca-s-frills-spur-u-s-expansion-as-retail-clothing-chain-mulls-ipo.html

          
          
             Francesca’s Collections Inc. has won
over women in their 20s by tweaking current trends, selling
clothes adorned with beads, lace and ruffles. That devotion may
help take the chain public as soon as next year.  
 “We have found a niche that is not being served, and we’ve
found a lot of success in that niche,” Chief Executive Officer
 John De Meritt  said in an interview. The customer “is willing
to pay a little bit more for a little bit higher quality.”  
 Proceeds from an initial public offering could allow
Francesca’s to more than double its boutiques to 500 in the next
five years, said De Meritt, 39. The Houston-based retailer would
join  Toys “R” Us Inc.  and  Gordmans Stores Inc.  in pursuing a
share sale as consumer spending rebounds from the largest
economic slump since the Great Depression.  
 Francesca’s sales top $500 per square foot, De Meritt said,
more than twice the specialty-store average for some other
national chains, according to U.S. government data. The
retailer, which targets women ages 18 to 32 who have their own
incomes, is taking on more widespread operators such as
 Charlotte Russe Holding Inc.  and Forever 21.  
 “I’ve seen this Francesca’s theme so often, and I guess it
comes and goes,” said  Candace Corlett , president of New York
consulting firm WSL Strategic Retail. “There is that gap left
by H&M on price and Old Navy on fashion but it seems to me that
they’re right up against Forever 21.”  
 Nicer Nuances  
 Francesca’s fun merchandise and reasonable pricing may give
the  retailer  a boost, Corlett said. Its “Blue Meadows”
sleeveless frock goes for $38, while the “Blushing Peach”
ruffled blouse with embellished buttons sells for $34.  
 “There may be a tunic top that doesn’t have beads around
the neckline and we’ll request that beads be added, or we’ll
raise the hem two inches,” De Meritt said in the June 22
telephone interview. “We’re able to take what is something that
is off the rack and sold for $12.99 at x, y and z and we make it
a little bit nicer and more Francesca’s-like and sell it for
$39.99.”  
 That strategy is part of what attracted buyout firm CCMP
Capital Advisors LLC, which bought an 85 percent stake in
Francesca’s in March. CCMP Chairman  Greg Brenneman , a Home Depot
Inc. board member who also served as a director at  J. Crew Group
Inc. , deems the chain “the best retail business model I’ve ever
seen.”  
 The retailer plans to open as many as 65 stores annually
for the next two or three years and may eventually grow to more
than 1,000, said De Meritt. He came on board as CEO in 2006 at
the behest of Chong Yi, his best friend and one of three
siblings he co-founded the firm with more than a decade ago.
Revenue may rise to more than $125 million this year, De Meritt
said.  
 Attracting Interest  
 While the chain’s growth has drawn interest from other
private equity and retail companies, a public offering is the
most likely route for Francesca’s, De Meritt said. June 2011
would be “the very earliest” an IPO would occur, according to
Brenneman.  
 Francesca’s, which will open its 200th store in August,
operates in small spaces -- about 1,200 square feet -- and
limits the size of orders, meaning it can get merchandise in and
out of the stores quickly and minimize markdowns, Brenneman
said. The stores receive new goods daily, prompting some
customers to visit three or four times a week, he said.  
 Some shoppers are venturing out again amid the economic
recovery, with consumer confidence rising last month to the
highest level since March 2008, according to the New York-based
Conference Board.  
 While spending and confidence have rebounded, the chain
benefited from the U.S.  recession , which put some retailers out
of business and made more spots available for less at prime
locations, Brenneman said.  
 “It’s the best real estate environment for growing retail
brands in 25 years,” he said. “Francesca’s wasn’t even in the
malls because space was too expensive.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lauren Coleman-Lochner  in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        