-- French Strike Over Pensions Reform Starts to Disrupt Rail, Air Services
-- Helene Fouquet
-- 2010-06-24T17:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/french-strike-over-pensions-reform-starts-to-disrupt-rail-air-services.html

          
          
             French labor unions led protest
marches across the nation, disrupting transport and schools to
in opposition to President  Nicolas Sarkozy’s  plan to lift the
minimum retirement age to 62.  
 At least 200 demonstrations were held in cities including
Lyon, Lille, Bordeaux and Strasbourg, union officials said.  
 “We’re hoping for over a million protesters, maybe it will
even be 2 million,”  Francois Chereque , head of France’s biggest
union, the Confederation Francaise Democratique du Travail, said
on RTL radio earlier today. Workers aren’t against pensions
reforms, “just against unfair ones,” he said.  
 In Paris, union organizers said 130,000 people marched, an
increase from the 90,000 who they claimed marched during the
last protest on May 27. Police estimated 47,000 marchers today.
Many had vuvuzelas, the plastic horns popularized by South
African spectators at the World Cup.  
 Unions sought to muster enough support to block the plan,
which represents Sarkozy’s main push to improve public finances
in 2010. This is the second day of action over the pension
overhaul, following a May 27 protest.  
 While strikes have prompted the shelving of previous
attempts at reform, notably in 1995, an Ifop poll published in
yesterday’s Le Figaro newspaper showed 58 percent of voters
approve the overhaul.  
 Popular Support  
 “I am hoping that if popular support is strong enough, the
government will be forced to rethink,” Socialist Party member
and former Prime Minister  Laurent Fabius  said on the i-Tele
television channel.  
 Railway workers at Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer
Francais went on strike last night, cutting high-speed train
services to and from Paris by 50 percent and those to the rest
of France by as much as two-thirds, the company said in an e-
mailed statement today.  
 Thalys  trains to Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands ran
normally and the Eurostar service wasn’t affected, the SNCF
said. Almost 40 percent of rail workers were on strike as of 11
a.m., according to a company statement.  
 France’s civil aviation authority asked carriers to reduce
flights by 15 percent between 7 a.m. and 2 p.m. at Roissy
Charles de Gaulle and Orly  airports . Air France said it would
operate all its long-haul flights and 85 percent of its domestic
and medium-haul service.  
 Subway Disruptions  
 About half of Paris’s  metro lines  were disrupted and one in
five trains to the French capital’s two main airports will run.  
 The state-owned postal service reported a 20 percent
walkout, more than the 12.7 percent recorded for the May 27
strike. The Ministry for Education said an average 20 percent of
its workers struck, with 33 percent of primary-school staff off
work.  
 Almost 19 percent of civil servants walked off the job,
including 13 percent of local government workers. The Labor
Ministry said more than 12 percent of hospital employees are
taking part in the work stoppage.  
 At Electricite de France SA, the strike action caused power
output to fall by 7,000 megawatts, Laurent Langlard, a spokesman
for the CGT union said. This includes 6,000 megawatts of
electricity from atomic reactors and 1,000 megawatts from
thermal plants.  
 Le Monde , the French newspaper of record, wasn’t printed
today and most national dailies won’t be on sale tomorrow as
printing factories were halted by the strike.  
 Sarkozy is raising the retirement age to 62 by 2018, from
60 currently, and increasing taxes to stem losses in the pension
system. French lawmakers will debate the bill in September.  
 The CGT, CFDT, CFTC, FSU, UNSA, Sud and Solidaires unions
called for the strike, while Force Ouvriere, the country’s
third-biggest union, didn’t.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     France's president Nicolas Sarkozy. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Gilles Moec, an economist at Deutsche Bank AG, talks about French President Nicolas Sarkozy's plan to lift the minimum retirement age to 62 and increase taxes to stem losses in the pension system.
     Moec talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
