-- Fundraiser Nemazee Sentence of Up to 19 1/2 Years Urged by Prosecutors
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-06-24T14:55:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/fundraiser-nemazee-sentence-of-up-to-19-1-2-years-urged-by-prosecutors.html

          
          
             Hassan Nemazee , a former political
fundraiser for U.S. President  Barack Obama  and Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton , should be sentenced to as much as
19 years and seven months in prison for his bank fraud
conviction, prosecutors said.  
 Nemazee pleaded guilty in federal court in Manhattan in
March to defrauding  Citigroup Inc.,   HSBC Holdings Plc  and  Bank
of America Corp.  out of millions of dollars. After he was
arrested in August, prosecutors said he cheated the banks out of
$292 million. He’s to be sentenced June 30.  
 Nemazee deserves from 15 years and eight months to 19 years
and seven months, prosecutors said yesterday in court papers.  
 “The defendant was, in essence, running a Ponzi scheme --
using the proceeds of one fraud to pay off another fraud
victim,” Assistant U.S. Attorney  Daniel W. Levy  wrote in a
memorandum to U.S. District Judge  Sidney Stein .  
 Information the fundraiser provided about his finances and
fraud in four meetings with the government after charges were
filed was “of no value,” prosecutors said.  
 Nemazee raised at least $100,000 for Clinton’s 2008
presidential campaign, according to the Washington watchdog
group Public Citizen. He brought in at least $500,000 for Obama
after Clinton lost in the primary campaign, according to Public
Citizen.  
 Amount of Loss  
 From 1998 to 2009, Nemazee “obtained hundreds of millions
of dollars worth of loans from BofA, Citibank, and HSBC,”
prosecutors said in Nemazee’s indictment.  
 “Part of the manner in which the defendant was able to
dupe the banks into lending him substantial sums of money was to
trade on his substantial reputation in political circles as a
prodigious fundraiser in order to convince the banks that he was
deserving of their trust,” prosecutors said.  
 “For example, the defendant was courted as a client at the
highest levels of Bank of America, Citi, and HSBC and was
provided with outstanding client service by those banks, in
part, because the banks believed that the defendant was an
important person in political circles,” the U.S. said.  
 In court during his guilty plea, Nemazee said his fraud
began in the mid-1990s as he faced financial difficulties. He
admitted that he used forged documents to borrow from banks and
said he intended to repay the lenders. He said he was unable to
do so as his investments went bad.  
 Nemazee’s lawyer,  Paul Shechtman , didn’t immediately reply
to a voice-mail message left at his office seeking comment.  
 Bank Loans  
 Nemazee made partial payments to one bank with loans he
fraudulently obtained from other banks, according to the
indictment. He repaid some of what he owed to Bank of America
with funds he got from Citibank, and he drew down on a line of
credit from London-based HSBC to repay Citibank, prosecutors
said.  
 Nemazee used the stolen funds to make donations to
candidates, political action committees and charities, to buy
real estate in Italy, and to make monthly maintenance payments
on properties in Manhattan and Katonah, New York.  
 As of August, Nemazee owed about $142 million to Charlotte,
North Carolina-based Bank of America and about $75 million to
HSBC.  
 The case is U.S. v. Nemazee, 09-mj-1927, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 -- With assistance from  David Glovin  in New York. Editors:  John Pickering ,  Charles Carter   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in Federal Court in Manhattan
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        