-- Gazprom Resumes Natural Gas Supplies to Belarus After Mutual Debt Payments
-- Anton Doroshev
-- 2010-06-24T17:19:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/gazprom-pays-belarus-228-million-in-transit-fees-says-resumed-gas-flows.html

          
          
             OAO Gazprom , the world’s biggest gas
producer, resumed fuel supplies to Belarus in full today after
both sides settled bills, paying less than charged and saying
questions remain about pricing.  
 “We see no reasons at present for there to be problems
with transit or supplies to residents in Belarus,”  Sergei Kupriyanov , a spokesman for the Russian gas export monopoly,
told reporters today in Moscow. “Questions remain about what
the exact transit fee should be. We expect to resolve them.”  
 Gazprom paid $228 million for past transit fees in line
with a base contract rate, rather than the $260 million Belarus
was demanding, Kupriyanov said. No agreement on raising the
price has been signed yet, he said. The company received $187
million from Belarus for past fuel deliveries, which Gazprom had
assessed at $192 million, he said.  
 The dispute over the debts lowered gas shipments to
Lithuania, a European Union member, as Gazprom cut deliveries
for Belarus 60 percent by yesterday and accused the neighboring
country of siphoning off 20 percent of EU exports. Gazprom
supplies a quarter of Europe’s gas, sending about 20 percent via
Belarus and the rest across Ukraine.  
 Restored Transit  
 Lithuania’s gas supplies were fully restored from across
Belarus today, Sigita Petrikonyte-Jurkuniene, a spokeswoman for
Lietuvos Dujos AB, said in an e-mailed statement. Gazprom said
in a statement today that the amount of gas registered at
Belarus’s western border is in line with contract terms.  
 Belarus First Deputy Prime Minister  Vladimir Semashko  had
threatened to cut transit to the EU if Beltransgaz, the
Belarusian pipeline operator, didn’t receive the transit fee
payment, Interfax said today. Vladimir Chekov, a spokesman for
Beltransgaz, which is half-owned by Gazprom, didn’t answer his
office or mobile phones when called by Bloomberg News during the
past three days.  
 Gazprom paid for transit fees at the base price of $1.45
per 1,000 cubic meters of gas crossing 100 kilometers in a 2006
contract, as accords raising the price were never signed,
Kupriyanov said. Belarus sought to boost transit prices to $1.74
last year and $1.88 this year, and used higher rates to
calculate Belarus’s supply debt, he said.  
 Gazprom has sent documents to Belarus to sign that will
increase the transit fee as well as the wholesale mark-up that
Beltransgaz can charge domestically, Kupriyanov said.  
 Payment Acceptable  
 Belarus’s payment of $187 million is acceptable as long as
the country signs the documents, he said. The debt arose this
year as the country continued to pay last year’s $150 per 1,000
cubic meters, demanding Russia’s domestic price. Gazprom charged
about $184 in the second quarter, according to the contract,
Kupriyanov said this week.  
 Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  criticized Belarus for
failing to pay on time or in line with its contract and said the
former Soviet republic receives gas at the lowest price in the
region, at a meeting with Chief Executive Officer  Alexei Miller 
broadcast today on state television.  
 Putin called for more talks about Belarus’s demand for
higher transit fees. Belarus will consider the $228 million that
Gazprom transferred as an 87 percent advance payment, RIA
Novosti said, citing Semashko.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Shiryaevskaya  in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        