-- GE Scientist's Pliable Light-Producing Sheets May Outshine Bulb
-- Rachel Layne
-- 2010-06-24T15:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/ge-scientist-duggal-may-outshine-bulb-with-flexible-light-producing-sheets.html

          
          
             General Electric Co.  scientist Anil
Duggal is working on light-producing sheets that may soon
outshine the bulb.  
 The light bulb, once a symbol of GE’s ingenuity, has shrunk
to such a small percentage of its  sales , about 1 percent, that
the Fairfield, Connecticut-based company tried, unsuccessfully,
to  sell  off the business in 2008. As it turns out, GE has been
directing a research effort at making the screw-in bulb
obsolete, Bloomberg Businessweek  reports  in its June 28 issue.  
 Duggal, a physical chemist at GE’s research laboratories in
upstate New York, says he may be about a year away from
producing durable and  green  lighting that is neither
incandescent nor fluorescent.  
 The technology is called organic light-emitting diodes, or
OLEDs, -- not to be confused with LEDs, a different technology.
GE’s OLEDs will come in rolls of flexible sheets less than a
tenth of an inch (2.5 centimeter) thick, and Duggal says their
energy efficiency now matches compact fluorescents, with room
for improvement. Their pliability opens the door to light-
producing furniture, wallpaper, or ceiling paper, and items that
have yet to be imagined, Duggal says.  
 Like GE co-founder  Thomas Edison , who improved Humphry
Davy’s light bulb, Duggal is taking OLEDs, which have existed
for decades, and focusing on how to mass-produce them. OLEDs
glow when electricity flows through naturally occurring organic
polymers. GE is betting on a process that “prints” the polymers
onto plastic film and sandwiches them with a top layer of film.
The long sheets can be made at high speed, producing rolls of
OLEDs.  
 $1 Million Grant  
 First, Duggal needed funding. The idea of manufacturing
lighting with a method akin to newspaper printing was a tough
sell. In the late 1990s, he managed to buttonhole U.S. Energy
Department officials visiting GE to look in on other projects.
The $1 million grant that resulted helped keep the project
going. In 2001,  Jeff Immelt , still new in the role of chief
executive officer, challenged GE engineers and scientists to
strive for breakthrough ideas. Today, OLED and LED get about
half of research and development’s budget for lighting at GE.  
 The lighting sales of market leaders  Siemens AG ,  Royal
Philips Electronics NV  and GE now add up to $17 billion a year.
Research firm Frost & Sullivan estimates the market for OLED
lighting, which is even and diffuse compared with single-point
sources such as bulbs, at $77 million annually. That could rise
rapidly if architects and developers adopt the technology, says
Abhigyan Sengupta, a Frost & Sullivan analyst. All GE’s major
rivals are working on OLEDs, but Duggal’s manufacturing process
and his flexible product may prove to be a huge advantage for
GE, Sengupta says.  
 Duggal, 44, says he was torn between philosophy, religion,
and the physical sciences as a student. His drive to solve
tangible problems won out.  
 “My personal dream was to change the world with something
that I did -- to do something new that makes a difference
technology-wise,”  Duggal says.  
 Before that happens, GE, Duggal and the outside designers
who will be given the light-producing sheets must figure out how
to turn this new material into products on store shelves.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     General Electric CEO Jeff Immelt challenged GE engineers and scientists to strive for breakthrough ideas. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
