-- German Shepherds, Parachuting Valkyries Thrill in San Francisco
-- Stephen West
-- 2010-06-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/german-shepherds-parachuting-valkyries-thrill-in-san-francisco.html

          
          
             Two amazing German shepherds briefly
steal the show in the  San Francisco Opera ’s production of
 Wagner ’s “The Valkyrie.”  
 Suddenly, the unleashed beasts leap across from one side of
the stage to the other, followed by the murderous Hunding.  
 The audience gasps. Then we’re back to admiring the first-
rate singers, especially Nina Stemme as Brunnhilde in this eye-
popping production conducted by  Donald Runnicles  and directed by
 Francesca Zambello .  
 From the moment Stemme strides onstage, dressed as a 1930s
aviatrix in long coat, scarf and high boots, she projects a
tomboy’s brash energy and enthusiasm. Her singing is clean and
bright, strong enough to balance the lush, rich sound of the
orchestra.  
 The Swedish soprano is utterly believable as the top
Valkyrie, whose job description includes transporting fallen
warriors to Valhalla. She’s the favorite daughter of top deity
Wotan, a pin-striped godfather operating from a penthouse
office.  
 Baritone Mark Delavan fills the suit with muscular grace,
which gives physical tension to that long scene with his
impetuous daughter Brunnhilde. Ground down by his nitpicking
wife, Fricka, he orders Brunnhilde not to protect Siegmund and
Sieglinde, who have begun an adulterous and incestuous
relationship and incurred Fricka’s wrath.  
 Defiant Daughter  
 Brunnhilde defies her father’s order, setting in motion
events that will end with Siegmund’s death, Sieglinde’s rescue
and a magnificent ring of fire in which the Valkyrie slumbers
until awakened at the end of the next opera, “Siegfried.”  
 Zambello’s kinetic staging finds inventive ways to keep the
stars in character at all times. When the Valkyries return to
Valhalla in the final act, they parachute in from the wings in
thrilling fashion. Even at almost five hours, with two
intermissions, the show never drags.  
 The designs by Michael Yeargan are simple yet elegant,
especially the first act’s cabin in which Sieglinde dwells with
Hunding and his hunting trophies. At the act’s end, the cabin
walls slide apart, revealing an enormous full moon in a deep
blue sky, a memorable setting for the lovers’ ill-fated embrace.  
 All the singers are unusually fine: Christopher Ventris, a
handsome Siegmund, Eva-Maria Westbroek, his full-voiced
Sieglinde, Janina Baechle, a bosomy, often comic Fricka and
Raymond Aceto, as a particularly psychotic Hunding.  
 San Francisco Opera will stage all four parts of the
“Ring” cycle next year.  
 Horse Opera  
 The company has been clever in advertising the spring
season’s three operas with posters all over town suggesting we
“Take a Wild Ride With a Valkyrie,” sell our “Soul to the
Devil” and hitch up for “The Original Spaghetti Western.”
That last would be Puccini’s “Girl of the Golden West,” which
takes place during the California Gold Rush and is occasionally
mounted for divas who want some fun and aren’t afraid of horsing
around.  
 So  Deborah Voigt , more often seen in Wagnerian epics, steps
out as the saloon-keeper Minnie who falls for a bandit named
Dick Johnson. The highlight is a card game she plays for his
life with the smitten sheriff, Jack Rance.  
 Voigt, now slim, was a charismatic Minnie and her
appearance on horseback added some charm to a production that
wasn’t very scenic.  Salvatore Licitra  offered an ardent bandit
and Roberto Frontali cut a macho presence as Rance. Whatever the
posse-pursues-outlaw plot lacks in surprises is more than made
up for in Puccini’s score, conducted floridly (if sometimes a
bit loudly) by music director  Nicola Luisotti .  
 Beat the Devil  
 Gounod’s “Faust” got off to a promisingly spooky start as
John Relyea, the Mephistopheles, arose from a gurney in Dr.
Faust’s laboratory. Soon the old doctor is young again and the
two set out to have a high old time on the town. Relyea looked
properly dapper and Stefano Secco sang fluidly as Faust.  
 Still, the star of the show was  Patricia Racette  as the
doomed Marguerite. She sang with passion, especially when
calling to the angels at the opera’s end. The production, from
the  Lyric Opera of Chicago , seemed under-directed, with singers
standing lifelessly in front of the chorus and belting it out to
the balconies.  
 San Francisco Opera’s spring season runs through July 2 at
the  War Memorial Opera House,  301 Van Ness Ave. Information: +1-
415-864-3330;  http://www.sfopera.com   
 ( Stephen West  is an editor for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this story:
Stephen West in San Francisco at 
 smwest@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Mark Delavan as Wotan and Nina Stemme as Brunnhilde in the 2010 production of the Wagner opera "Die Walkure." Photographer: Cory Weaver/San Francisco Opera via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Christopher Ventris and Eva-Maria Westbroek  
                       
                         
                           Cory Weaver/San Francisco Opera via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Christopher Ventris as Siegmund and Eva-Maria Westbroek as Sieglinde in the 2010 production of the Wagner opera "Die Walkure." 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Christopher Ventris as Siegmund and Eva-Maria Westbroek as Sieglinde in the 2010 production of the Wagner opera "Die Walkure." Photographer: Cory Weaver/San Francisco Opera via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Salvatore Licitra as Dick Johnson, kneeling, and Roberto Frontali as Sheriff Jack Rance in the Puccini opera "The Girl of the Golden West." The San Francisco Opera production runs through July 2. Photographer: Cory Weaver/San Francisco Opera via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Salvatore Licitra as Dick Johnson and Deborah Voigt as Minnie in the Puccini opera "The Girl of the Golden West." The San Francisco Opera production runs through July 2. Photographer: Cory Weaver/San Francisco Opera via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       John Relyea  
                       
                         
                           
                         
                         John Relyea as Mephistopheles in the Gounod opera "Faust." The San Francisco Opera production runs through July 1. Photo: Cory Weaver/San Francisco Opera via Bloomberg 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     John Relyea as Mephistopheles in the Gounod opera "Faust." The San Francisco Opera production runs through July 1. Photo: Cory Weaver/San Francisco Opera via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Patricia Racette and Stefano Secco  
                       
                         
                           Cory Weaver/San Francisco Opera via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Patricia Racette as Marguerite and Stefano Secco as Faust in the Gounod opera "Faust." The San Francisco Opera production runs through July 1. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Patricia Racette as Marguerite and Stefano Secco as Faust in the Gounod opera "Faust." The San Francisco Opera production runs through July 1. Photographer: Cory Weaver/San Francisco Opera via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
