-- Germany Trims 3rd-Quarter Debt Issuance Plan, Plans More Reductions in 4th
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-06-24T15:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/germany-trims-3rd-quarter-debt-issuance-plan-plans-more-reductions-in-4th.html

          
          
             The German government trimmed the
amount of debt it plans to sell between July and September and
indicated a bigger reduction may come in the fourth quarter as
tax-revenue growth recovers.  
 Germany will sell 77 billion euros ($94.5 billion) of bonds
and bills in the third quarter, 2 billion euros less than
forecast in December, the Federal Finance Agency said today. A
larger adjustment will come in the fourth quarter, assuming the
economy stays steady, a finance ministry official said.  
 Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  has pledged to cut net
new borrowing by the end of the year. A federal issuance
calendar released in December said gross debt sales this year
would be a record 343 billion euros ($421.5 billion). Since
then, Europe’s largest economy has grown faster than expected.
The RWI economic institute yesterday raised its forecast for
growth to 1.9 percent this year from 1.4 percent.  
 “I can imagine that the reduction in the fourth quarter
will be bigger,” said  Huw Worthington , a fixed-income
strategist at Barclays Capital in London. “The overall amount
of issuance is still very high, though. But at least it’s a very
encouraging trend.”  
 The third-quarter debt issuance includes 44 billion euros
of bonds and 33 billion euros of bills, or securities that
mature within 12 months.  
 Schauble’s ministry said on June 22 that the so-called
structural budget deficit, which excludes the effect of the
economic cycle, will be 53.2 billion euros this year, 13.4
billion euros less than the 66.6 billion euros originally
expected. It also said then that net new borrowing this year
will be 15 billion euros below the 80.2 billion euros in the
2010 budget plan.  
 European Trend  
 “The reduction might not be big, but this is the trend
across the region,” said  Mohit Kumar , a fixed-income strategist
at Deutsche Bank AG in London, referring to recent planned
reductions by the U.K. and France. “There’s a lot of pressure
from the market and rating agencies on this. The message is very
clear. Governments need to be serious about fiscal
consolidation.”  
 German bonds have outperformed U.K. gilts and U.S.
Treasuries this year as the spreading euro-region sovereign-debt
crisis drove investors to the safest assets.  
 The bonds hand investors a 6.3 percent return this year,
compared with 5.3 percent and 4.8 percent from British and U.S.
government securities respectively, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Indexes.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        