-- Gillard Becomes Australian Leader, Ousting Rudd
-- Marion Rae
-- 2010-06-24T10:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/gillard-sworn-in-as-australia-s-first-female-prime-minister-as-rudd-ousted.html

          
          
             Julia Gillard  became Australia’s
first female prime minister, ousting  Kevin Rudd  as Labor Party
leader after his plans to boost taxes on the mining industry
deepened a slump in opinion polls.  
 Gillard, 48, was sworn in at about 1 p.m. in Canberra, less
than 24 hours after the Welsh-born education minister mounted
her challenge. Rudd, 52, stepped down after losing the support
of colleagues, ending his tenure just 2 1/2 years after he swept
to power in a landslide election victory.  
 BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group rose in Sydney
trading as Gillard agreed to start negotiations on a proposed
tax on profits that would raise A$12 billion ($10.5 billion) in
its first two years. The plan had sparked a storm of protests
from the world’s biggest producers, which threatened to scrap
projects and curtail investment. Gillard, a former labor lawyer,
also said today she’ll call an election this year, setting up a
battle with the Liberal Party’s  Tony Abbott .  
 “Ultimately, Kevin Rudd and I disagreed about the
direction of the government,” Gillard told reporters in
Canberra today. “I came to the view that a good government was
losing its way.”  
 Following her televised swearing in, Gillard joined
Governor-General  Quentin Bryce  on the steps of Government House
in Canberra. The two were accompanied by Treasurer  Wayne Swan ,
who will retain the post he held in Rudd’s government while also
serving as Gillard’s deputy.  
 Leadership Change  
 “This is the most dramatic leadership change in Australian
political history,”  Nick Economou , a lecturer in politics at
Monash University in Melbourne, said in a phone interview.  
 Rudd, who served the shortest term as leader since William
McMahon’s tenure of 20 months and 25 days beginning in 1971,
said in a news conference today in Canberra that he was proud of
steering the nation through the global economic crisis without
falling into recession.  
 “I’ve given it my absolute all,” Rudd told reporters in
Canberra today, as he fought back tears. “These reforms will
endure into the future and make Australia, I believe, a fairer
and better place than it would otherwise have been.”  
 Flanked by his wife Therese Rein and children Jess, Nick
and Marcus, Rudd said he’ll run at the next election in his
district of Griffith in the state of Queensland.  
 Gillard will talk to Rudd about a possible role for him in
government before she decides on any changes to government
ministries, she told the Australian Broadcasting Corp.  
 Any changes will be small and she intends to maintain
stability in government, Gillard said this evening on Sydney-
based Channel Nine television.  
 Slump in Polls  
 The Australian dollar fell to 87.24 U.S. cents at 5:05 p.m.
in Sydney from 87.39 cents in New York yesterday. Australia’s
benchmark stock index, the S&P/ASX 200 Index, fell 6.4 points to
4479.70. BHP rose 1.3 percent and Rio Tinto gained 1.7 percent.  
 Rudd’s support began to slide in April after he shelved his
carbon trading system, the centerpiece of his plan to tackle
climate change, which he called the greatest “moral challenge”
of our time. He then proposed the 40 percent tax on the “super
profits” of resource projects in Australia, the world’s biggest
shipper of coal and iron ore, and refused to back down even
after members of his own party objected.  
 ‘Doors Open’  
 Gillard today offered to “throw open” her doors to the
mining industry, and pledged to scrap the government’s A$38.5
million advertising campaign that Rudd undertook to counter what
he said was industry “misinformation” about the levy. In
return, she asked the mining industry to end its campaign, an
appeal that was answered by BHP. Rio Tinto today said it’s
“cautiously encouraged” by Gillard’s comments on the tax.  
 Dissatisfaction with Rudd, hit a record 55 percent,
according to a telephone survey of 1,147 people between June 18
and June 20 published in the Australian newspaper this week. The
margin of error was 3 percentage points.  
 Rudd was previously the nation’s second most-popular leader,
after  Bob Hawke  in the 1980s, according to a Nielsen poll
published in March 2009.  
 Gillard had been Rudd’s deputy since December 2006 and
helped Labor win power from  John Howard ’s coalition after almost
12 years in opposition.  
 She  served  as minister for education, employment and social
inclusion under Rudd, where she took responsibility for
dismantling Howard’s labor laws that decreased the power of
unions. Voter opposition to the laws was seen as the pivotal
issue in the 2007 election victory.  
 Abbott Faceoff  
 Gillard studied at the  University of Adelaide  and Melbourne
University, where she graduated in 1986 with degrees in arts and
law and joined law firm Slater & Gordon in Werribee, Victoria in
1990, practicing industrial law. The firm now has a meeting room
named after her in its Melbourne office.  
 Gillard will now face Abbott, who has promised not to adopt
the resource profits tax and has offered a more generous plan
for new parents to take leave from the workforce.  
 “A prime minister elected by the people has been executed
by the union and the factional warlords,” Abbott told reporters
in Canberra today. “Different salesman, same dud product.”  
 Abbott, a former health minister, seminary student and
Rhodes scholar, has galvanized conservative voters with his
attacks on the government’s climate change and asylum seeker
policies.  
 “I don’t think it’s diminished the opposition’s prospects
one iota,”  John Freebairn , Professor of Economics at the
University of Melbourne, said in a phone interview today.  
 “Labor has just got itself into an awkward position,” he
said. “If she reverses the Rudd decisions then she’ll be called
a flip-flop and if she sticks with them then it’s just more of
the same. You can’t win.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net ;
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       New Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard  
                       
                         
                           Scott Barbour/Getty Images 
                         
                         New Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard speaks during a news conference in Canberra. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     New Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard speaks during a news conference in Canberra. Photographer: Scott Barbour/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Peter Rudd, director of mining and resources at Balnave Capital, talks with Bloomberg's Judith Bogner about Julia Gillard's appointment today as Australian prime minister and its potential implications for the government's proposed tax on mining profits.
     Gillard, who was sworn in as leader after ousting Kevin Rudd, said she is willing to negotiate on the proposed tax with mining companies. BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group led gains in Australian miners after Gillard made the comments. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
