-- Gillard Holds Her First Cabinet Meeting as Australia's New Prime Minister
-- Gemma Daley
-- 2010-06-25T10:31:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/gillard-to-hold-first-cabinet-meeting-in-canberra-to-meet-with-press.html

          
          
             Julia Gillard , who ousted  Kevin Rudd 
as Australian prime minister yesterday, held her first Cabinet
meeting today as she begins work to revive support for the Labor
government in the lead up to an election this year.  
 The nation’s new leader hasn’t set a deadline for making
ministerial changes and is yet to confirm whether Parliament
will return for its next session from Aug 24. The government has
to soothe voters angered by Rudd’s decision to impose a 40
percent tax on resource “super” profits and to shelve carbon-
trading plans.  
 “The purpose of today’s Cabinet meeting is to be
discussing the changes we will make to get the government back
on track,” Gillard told reporters in Canberra. “This is a good
government that lost its way.”  
 Gillard said it was her “priority” to hold discussions
with ministers and resolve a dispute over the government’s
planned resource profits tax in the world’s biggest shipper of
coal and iron ore. A Cabinet reshuffle will be announced “in
due course,” she said.  
 Foreign Minister  Stephen Smith  signaled he is willing to
give up his role for Rudd, a former mid-ranking diplomat and a
fluent Mandarin speaker.  
 Rudd ‘Unique’  
 “Kevin was unique in the sense that for the first time we
had a person, who was a diplomat professionally, become prime
minister,” Smith told 4BC radio in an interview today. Gillard
“has made it clear that she’ll be making those judgments in the
next few days,” Smith added.  
 Treasurer  Wayne Swan  retains his role and with Resources
Minister  Martin Ferguson  will lead a “genuine” phase of talks
with mining companies on the proposed resource levy, Gillard
said yesterday, while confirming the government’s commitment to
a profit-based resources tax.  
 “It is the same tax that’s on the table, it is a profits-
based tax,” Swan told ABC radio today. The 40 percent rate is
part of the discussions during a new phase of “good faith”
negotiations with the resources industry, he said.  
 Gillard said she spoke by phone with President  Barack Obama 
early today and with New Zealand Prime Minister  John Key 
yesterday. The new prime minister told Obama she would continue
the nation’s presence in Afghanistan, saying she “fully
supports” the deployment. Australia has about 1,550 soldiers in
Afghanistan and 16 have been killed since 2002.  
 Changes Minimal  
 Changes in the Cabinet will be minimal, the Australian
newspaper reported today without saying where it got the
information. Former Australian Council of Trade Unions leader
 Greg Combet , currently outside Cabinet as a junior minister on
defense materiel and climate change, may win a higher-profile
role, according to the newspaper.  
 Gillard, backed by Australia’s largest labor unions to
replace Rudd, may promote former union official  Bill Shorten  to
cover her one of her former roles as employment and education
minister, the newspaper said.  
 Finance Minister  Lindsay Tanner  said yesterday he’ll retire
from parliament at the next election and it isn’t known whether
he’ll keep the finance role up until then. An election date has
not yet been set, but is due by next April.  
 “The election will be in 2010,” Gillard told Australian
Broadcasting Corp. television last night. “I can absolutely
rule out next year.”  
 Rudd would have lost an election as voter support declined
in key seats in Queensland state and western Sydney, according
to a Newspoll published in the Australian newspaper this week.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net ;
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        