-- GMAT Test for Business School Has Biggest Change in Decade
-- Alison Damast
-- 2010-06-24T23:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/gmat-test-for-business-school-admissions-has-its-biggest-change-in-decade.html

          
          
             The Graduate Management Admission 
Test required for business school applicants will add a new
section to test reasoning skills in its biggest makeover in a
decade.  
 The section will replace one of two writing portions on the
exam and add an audio component for some questions, the Graduate
Management Admission Council said at its annual industry
conference in San Diego. The new test will be administered
beginning in 2012, Bloomberg Businessweek reported on its
website. The test’s verbal and math sections won’t change.  
 Business school faculty members wanted a section that
simulated the skills students use in MBA classrooms, said  Dave Wilson , president and chief executive officer of the McLean,
Virginia-based admissions council. It is the biggest alteration
to the test since the GMAT was switched to the computer-adaptive
format in the late 1990s, he said.  
 “These questions are really microcosms of what goes on in
the MBA classroom and it will help schools identify students
that will thrive in the classroom, not just survive,” said
Wilson.  
 The latest version of the GMAT -- the 10th generation of
the exam -- will be followed closely by admissions officers,
students and test-preparation companies, as GMAC pilots the exam
this year and prepares for its launch on June 4, 2012. The test
is being rolled out a year ahead of schedule.  
 The organization has spent more than $10 million developing
the new questions. The admissions council will rely on audio
technology designed by its testing administrator, Pearson Vue.  
 Compete With ETS  
 The test will compete with the  Educational Testing  Service,
which has persuaded some business schools -- including Harvard
University, the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton, Stanford
University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology -- to
allow students to submit the Graduate Record Examination for
admission.  
 The format of the new GMAT section will require test takers
to interpret charts, graphs and spreadsheets, determine the
relationships between data points, and answer interactive
questions that will gauge their analytical skills.  
 During portions of the section, students will wear
headphones, a new feature that will help schools assess auditory
learning styles.  
 The changes to the exam mirror shifts in the classroom as
schools have changed their curriculums to emphasize problem-
solving and critical thinking, says Peg Jobst, senior vice
president of GMAC services.  
 In August 2011, Princeton, New Jersey-based ETS will unveil
its own revised test. It includes new types of questions in the
Verbal Reasoning and Quantitative Reasoning sections, new answer
formats and an on-screen calculator.  
 New ETS Test  
 David Payne, an ETS vice president and chief operating
officer for college and graduate programs, said that business
schools and test-takers have given positive feedback. ETS is
“completely focused” on the changes, he said in a statement.  
 These types of questions will help schools assess
analytical thinking skills and the ability to pull together
information, said  Stacey Kole , deputy dean of the full-time MBA
program at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business.  
 ‘We are not going to lose anything the old GMAT had,” said
Kole, a board member for GMAC who served on a committee that
looked at ways to improve the exam. “We’ll just be gaining
more, and for me, that is very exciting.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alason Damast in New York at 
 admast@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Graduates wearing mortarboards attend Syracuse University's commencement ceremony. Photographer: Michael Okoniewski/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
