-- Gold Rises on Bets Fed's Interest-Rate Outlook Will Lead to Weaken Dollar
-- Pham-Duy Nguyen
-- 2010-06-24T18:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/gold-rises-on-bets-fed-s-interest-rate-outlook-will-lead-to-weaken-dollar.html

          
          
             Gold futures rose the most in a week
after the Federal Reserve said it will keep U.S. borrowing costs
low for an extended period, which may weaken the dollar and
boost the appeal of the precious metal.  
 The greenback fell for a second day against a basket of six
major currencies following the Fed’s decision yesterday to keep
the  main interest rate  at zero percent to 0.25 percent, the
range since December 2008. The central bank’s policy makers said
financial conditions have become “less supportive” of growth.  
 “The Fed doesn’t have a lot of bullets left in terms of
resources to add stimulus to the economy through monetary
policy,” said  Frank McGhee , the head dealer at Integrated
Brokerage Services LLC in Chicago. “The amount of liquidity
sloshing around the system will underpin the gold rally.”  
 Gold futures for delivery in August rose $11.10, or 0.9
percent, to $1,245.90 an ounce on the Comex in New York, the
biggest gain for a most-active contract since June 17.  
 Gold has advanced 14 percent in 2010 after climbing for
nine straight years. The metal reached a record $1,266.50 on
June 21, partly on demand for a haven from Europe’s sovereign-
debt woes. The metal reached all-time highs in euros, U.K.
pounds and Swiss francs this month.  
 U.S. and European equities fell today as credit-default
swaps on Greek government bonds rose to a record.  
 ‘Flight to Safety’  
 “There’s no good reason not to own gold,” said  Matt Zeman , a metals trader at LaSalle Futures Group in Chicago.
“We’re seeing the flight-to-safety bid come back in.”  
 Gold historically has moved inversely to the dollar.  
 The Fed’s outlook for the economy and inflation may damp
demand for raw materials and drive gold lower in the short term,
analysts said.  
 “The Fed is more worried about deflation now,” McGhee
said.  
 Some investors buy gold to hedge against accelerating
consumer prices.  
 “Owning gold is a bit more problematic than it was when
inflationary concerns were higher,” said  Dennis Gartman , an
economist and the editor of the Suffolk, Virginia-based Gartman
Letter.  
 Silver futures for July delivery rose 27.7 cents, or 1.5
percent, to $18.736 an ounce on the Comex.  
 Platinum futures for October delivery fell $6.50, or 0.4
percent, to $1,568.20 an ounce on the New York Mercantile
Exchange.  
 Palladium futures for September delivery lost $4.35, or 0.9
percent, to $470 an ounce.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pham-Duy Nguyen  in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        