-- Google, Smith  Nephew, L-3, Thirsty Dog, Alamo: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-06-24T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/google-smith-nephew-l-3-thirsty-dog-alamo-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             Google Inc. ’s YouTube video-sharing
website didn’t infringe copyrights owned by movie and television
producer  Viacom Inc. , a judge ruled.  
 U.S. District Judge Louis Stanton in New York said
yesterday YouTube wasn’t liable for infringement.  
 YouTube  had said it was protected by the safe-harbor
provision of the federal Digital Millennium Copyright Act, which
says a service provider isn’t liable for infringement if it
removes material from its site when notified by the copyright
owner.  
 “The provider must know of the particular case before he
can control it,” Stanton said in the ruling. “The provider
need not monitor or seek out facts indicating such activity.”  
 Infringing content, once detected, must be taken down, the
judge said.  
 Both companies had asked Stanton in March for summary
judgment rulings in their favor. Viacom said  YouTube  benefited
financially by allowing users to post and share programs
including “The Daily Show With Jon Stewart” and “South Park”
on its website without authorization.  
 Viacom, based in New York, said in an e-mailed statement
that it plans to appeal the ruling.  
 “We believe that this ruling by the lower court is
fundamentally flawed and contrary to the language of the Digital
Millennium Copyright Act, the intent of Congress, and the views
of the Supreme Court as expressed in its most recent
decisions,” Viacom said in the statement.  
 The ruling is an important victory, said  Kent Walker , vice
president and general counsel for Google, in a Web log posting.  
 “The decision follows established judicial consensus that
online services like YouTube are protected when they work
cooperatively with copyright holders to help them manage their
rights online,” Walker said in the blog.  
 Google, based in Mountain View, California, acquired
YouTube for $1.65 billion in 2006.  
 The case is Viacom International Inc. v. YouTube Inc., 07-
cv-02103, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). For more copyright news, click here.  
 Patents  
 Smith  Nephew Infringed Kinetic Concepts Patents, Judge Says  
 Smith  Nephew Plc  infringed patents for  Kinetic Concepts
Inc.  technology that treats severe wounds using a vacuum-sealed
film, a U.K. judge ruled.  
 Pumps and canisters in Smith  Nephew’s Renasys EZ and
Renasys GO devices violate two Kinetic patents in the U.K.,
Judge Richard Arnold ruled yesterday at the High Court in
London. Smith  Nephew said it would appeal the decision.  
 “We believe that we do not infringe any valid patent,”
said Robin Carlstein, a vice president at London-based Smith 
Nephew, in a statement yesterday. A hearing on whether to block
sales of the products is scheduled for next month.  
 The ruling is the latest in a long-running dispute between
Smith  Nephew and San Antonio-based Kinetic over devices that
reduce infection and promote tissue growth in wounds. Kinetic in
March 2009 won a related U.S. lawsuit against Smith  Nephew
over the foam used in the devices. Cases are pending in France,
Germany and Australia.  
 “These patents, and many others that are exclusively owned
by KCI, prevent others from duplicating our industry-leading”
technology, Kinetic Chief Executive Officer Catherine Burzik
said in a statement.  
 Another U.K. court in May 2009 ruled that most of Kinetic’s
patent claims over Smith  Nephew’s foam were invalid. In that
case, seven of 10 U.K. patent claims were thrown out and three
other claims were upheld. Kinetic appealed and the ruling was
upheld.  
 The U.S. cased started in 2007, when Kinetic Concepts,
along with Wake Forest University, which licensed the technology
to the company, sued Bluesky Medical Corp., now owned by Smith 
Nephew. A jury found Kinetic suffered more than $900,000 in lost
profits and said its patents were valid.  
 Toyota Can’t Challenge Paice Patent on Hybrid Car Technology  
 Toyota Motor Corp.  can’t challenge a patent owned by  Paice
LLC  that may be central in an infringement lawsuit next month
against the Japanese carmaker over its newest Prius and Camry
hybrid vehicles.  
 The six-member panel of the U.S. International Trade
Commission in Washington yesterday upheld a May 21 finding by
one of its judges that Toyota is precluded from challenging the
validity of the  Paice  patent. The panel cited Toyota’s loss in a
similar dispute in 2005 over earlier versions of gas-electric
hybrid cars.  
 A trial over newer hybrid models is scheduled to start July
19 before ITC Judge  Theodore Essex . Toyota, the world’s biggest
automaker, could face a ban on imports of vehicles found to
infringe the patent owned by Bonita Springs, Florida-based
Paice.  
 Closely held Paice won a trial in 2005, in which a jury
determined Toyota infringed two patents related to drive trains
on Prius, Highlander and Lexus RX400h hybrid vehicles.  
 The ITC case is In the Matter of Hybrid Electric Vehicles,
337-688, U.S. International Trade Commission (Washington). The
civil cases are Paice LLC v. Toyota Motor Corp., 04-cv-211;
07cv180 and 08-cv-261, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Texas (Marshall).  
 For more patent news, click here  
 Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  
 L-3 Claims Ex-Employees Took Trade Secrets to Form New Company  
 L-3 Communications Holdings Inc. , a New York-based military
contractor, is seeking $15 million from former employees and an
Ohio competitor for alleged trade-secret misappropriation.  
 The company’s L-3 Services and Binary Ionization units
claim closely held  Advanced Disinfection Technologies LLC of
Lebanon, Ohio , uses their trade secrets and infringes their
patents.  
 L-3’s Services’ former director of research and
development-binary ionization technology, and a former sales and
marketing consultant are accused of taking trade secrets related
to the use of binary ionization technology as a decontamination
procedure.  
 The disputed technology is used in military applications
against biochemical warfare, and to sanitize cruise ships,
hospitals, nursing homes, prisons, and dental and veterinary
offices to combat infection, according to the complaint filed
June 18 in federal court in Norfolk, Virginia.  
 The ex-employees are accused of violating confidentiality
agreements they had with L-3 and of infringing four patents on a
fogger disinfectant system. L-3 claims Advanced Disinfection
Technologies was founded on misappropriated technology and other
trade secrets and that its operations infringe the disputed
patents.  
 Additionally, the former scientist is accused of working on
L-3’s time to develop technology used in the new company.  
 L-3 says that after it discovered that Advanced
Disinfection Technology was making infringing products, it sent
the former scientist a letter asking him to stop, and reminding
him of his confidentiality agreement. Instead, according to
court papers, he replied, saying he would “aggressively pursue
all remedies against L-3” if further action was taken.  
 In addition to seeking $15 million in damages, L-3 asked
that the damages be tripled, and that the defendants be ordered
to pay attorney fees and court costs. It also seeks a court
order barring Advanced Disinfection Technology from representing
it’s the owner of the disputed technology.  
 L-3 is represented by Suzanne M. Parker of the Parker
Intellectual Property Group PC of Annapolis, Maryland, and
 Benjamin G. Chew  of Washington’s  Patton Boggs LLP .  
 The case is L-3 Services v. Szekely, 2:10-cv-00290-TEM,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Norfolk).  
 Trademark  
 Thirsty Dog Brewing Sues Georgia Tavern for Infringing Trademark  
 Thirsty Dog Brewing Co. , an Akron, Ohio-based microbrewery,
sued a Georgia tavern for trademark infringement.  
 Thirsty Dog Inc., operator of the  Thirsty Dog Tavern  in
Atlanta, is accused of infringing two trademarks belonging to
the brewery. In its complaint filed June 22 in federal court in
Akron, Ohio, the brewer says it’s used the marks since at least
1996.  
 It objects to the tavern’s use of “Thirsty Dog” on its
 website , its Internet domain name, and on its page on Facebook
Inc.’s social-networking site.  
 The brewer claims the public is confused by the tavern’s
use of the name, and that it’s being caused “irreparable
injury.”  
 It asked the court to bar the tavern from referring to
itself by any name that is confusingly similar to the brewer’s
marks, and asked to be transferred the offending domain name,
www.thirstydogtavern.com.  
 Additionally, it’s seeking attorney fees, litigation costs
and money damages, and asked that the damages be tripled.  
 Thirsty Dog Brewing is represented by  Derek J. Somogy ,  Ray
L. Weber  and  Tama L. Drenski  of  Renner, Kenner, Grieve, Bobak,
Taylor  Weber  of Akron.  
 The case is Thirsty Dog Brewing Co. v. The Thirsty Dog
Inc.,5:10-cv-01392-JRA, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of Ohio (Akron).  
 Alamo’s Guardians Make Concession in Trademark Fight With State  
 The  Daughters of the Republic of Texas , the non-profit
group of female descendents of Texas pioneers that has operated
 the Alamo  since 1905, is now in discussions with the state over
their pending trademark application, the San Antonio Express-
News  reported .  
 The group’s trademark counsel has said they’re willing to
assign the trademark to the state if the Daughters lose their
position as the Alamo’s guardians, the newspaper reported.  
 The state, which owns the Alamo, has asked the Daughters to
provide a broad range of documents with regard to the site as
part of the trademark negotiations, according to the Express-
News.  
 Some members of the Daughters have said they’re concerned
that a fight with the state over the trademark could affect
their guardianship of the Alamo, the newspaper reported.  
 Gujarati Companies Find Named Registered in U.S. by Others  
 Nostalgic former residents of India’s state of Gujarat have
caused some of the region’s businesses trademark grief, the
Times of India  reported .  
 When an ice cream producer and two separate jewelers from
the state tried to register their corporate names as trademarks
in the U.S., they discovered earlier registrations made by non-
resident Gujaratis, according to the Times.  
 The three companies had to enter into a lengthy process
with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to get their own names
back, the newspaper reported.  
 For more trademark news, click here.  
 IP Moves  
 Roetzel  Andress Snares IP Team from Holland  Knight  
 Roetzel  Andress  hired a team of IP specialists for its
Washington office, the Akron, Ohio-based firm said in a
 statement .  
 The new hires, all from New York’s  Holland  Knight LLP ,
are partners Sunwoo Lee and Jon B. Crocker, associated Baldine
B. Paul and Benjamin E. Maskell and patent agent Donald L. Monin
Jr.  
 Lee , who does both litigation and transactional work, has
represented clients whose technologies have included
semiconductor circuitry and fabrication process, flat panel
display devices, light emitting diodes; solar cell modules,
computer hardware, software-based technologies computer
networking, computer games and graphic user interfaces; medical
devices and car batteries for hybrid and electric vehicles.  
 He has also practiced at the now-defunct Jenkins 
Gilchrist P.C. of Dallas, and Chicago’s  Seyfarth Shawl LLP , as
did Paul and Monin.  
 Lee has a master’s degree in materials science and
engineering from Stevens Institute of Technology, a doctorate in
solid state science and technology from Syracuse University and
a law degree from George Mason University.  
 Crocker , a litigator, has represented clients in disputes
involving flat panel displays, smart mobile telephones, global
positioning devices, wireless network devices and blue laser
light-emitting diodes.  
 Before he entered private practice, Crocker was the chief
of civil litigation for the U.S. Army.  
 He has an undergraduate degree in military science and
military history from the U.S. Military Academy West Point, a
law degree and a master’s degree in international law from the
University of Miami, and a master’s degree in military law from
the U.S. Army Judge Advocate General’s School.  
 Paul , who does both transactional and litigation work, has
both an undergraduate and a master’s degree in electrical
engineering from Florida AM University, a doctorate in
electrical engineering from Georgia Institute of Technology and
a law degree from George Washington University.  
 Maskell , who does patent-application work, has an
undergraduate degree in computer science from the University of
Virginia, and a law degree from George Mason University.  
  Monin , who handles parent applications related to solid-
state devices, is a former examiner at the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office. He has an undergraduate degree in electrical
engineering from the University of Missouri at Columbia.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        