-- Greek Bond Risk Jumps to Record on Signs Europe's Recovery is Sputtering
-- Shannon Harrington
-- 2010-06-24T15:28:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/greece-sovereign-bond-risk-rises-to-record-credit-default-swaps-indicate.html

          
          
             The cost to insure Greek government
bonds against default jumped to a record on speculation the
slowing economic recovery will add to the country’s debt woes.  
 Credit-default swaps on Greece rose 145 basis points to an
all-time high of 1,077 basis points, according to CMA
DataVision. Contracts on Portuguese government securities
climbed 16 basis points to a two-week high of 336.5, while Spain
rose 4 to 269.  
 Greek bond risk rose as data showed European industrial
orders rose less than expected in April, following a report
yesterday that showed growth in the region’s services and
manufacturing industries slowed in June. Moody’s Investors
Service downgraded Greece to junk last week, citing the risk to
economic growth from austerity measures tied to a 110 billion-
euro ($164.7 billion) rescue package.  
 “Some type of restructuring is likely inevitable,” said
 Eric Stein , a portfolio manager for Eaton Vance’s Global Macro
Absolute Return Fund, which in 2005 bought credit swaps on $50
million of Greek debt with an annual premium of $99,000 for 15
years, according to regulatory filings. The fund still owned
credit swaps on Greece as of March 31, according to its website.
“It’s very tough, in the long-term, to service their debt in
its current form,” he said.  
 The  extra yield  investors demand to hold 10-year Greek debt
instead of benchmark German bunds rose 10 basis points to 782
basis points. That’s the most since May 7, before the aid
package was announced.  
 Greek bonds are the worst performers in the euro region
this year, falling 19 percent, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. German bunds returned 6.5 percent.  
 Fiscal Leeway  
 Petros Christodoulou , head of Greece’s debt agency, said
today that the European Union loan package is giving the country
leeway to focus on its fiscal-consolidation measures and there’s
no reason to expect a default.  
 “The package we received gives us the luxury not to think
about it at this stage,” Christodoulou said at “The Sovereign
Debt Briefing” in London hosted by Bloomberg Link. “No one at
the moment is looking at a restructuring in Greece, no one in
Greece, no one outside Greece.”  
 European industrial orders rose 0.9 percent from March, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today.
Economists had forecast orders to increase 1.6 percent,
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  
 Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50
European companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings
increased 16 basis points to 563.5, JPMorgan Chase & Co. prices
show. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 investment-grade
companies rose 4 to 129.9.  
 A basis point on a credit-default swap contract protecting
10 million euros ($12.3 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 amoses5@bloomberg.net ;
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        