-- Guatemala Said Goldcorp Must Suspend Operations at Marlin Mine Amid Probe
-- Christopher Donville
-- 2010-06-24T20:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/guatemala-said-goldcorp-will-have-to-suspend-operations-at-its-marlin-mine.html

          
          
             Goldcorp Inc. , the second-largest
gold producer by market value, must temporarily shut its Marlin
mine in Guatemala during a probe into alleged environmental
damage and human-rights abuses, a government official said.  
 “They have to suspend operations,” Fernando Barillas, an
adviser to Guatemalan President  Alvaro Colom , said today in a
telephone interview. “It’s a resolution that has to be obeyed.
But there’s no exact date yet. Perhaps within 15 days or a
month. We have to give them time so they can close.”  
 The  Inter-American Commission on Human Rights , an arm of
the Organization of American States, asked Guatemala last month
to close Marlin ahead of an investigation into human-rights and
pollution complaints by nongovernmental organizations and local
community groups. The mine, located in western Guatemala,
produced 274,900 ounces of gold last year, or 11 percent of
Goldcorp’s output.  
 The Vancouver-based company has denied the allegations and
said today in a statement it expects to continue “normal
operations” at the mine while Guatemala moves to address the
concerns of the human-rights commission.  
 “We have been assured that we will have a full opportunity
to present the compelling data that prove there have been no
adverse environmental or health impacts from the mine,”
Goldcorp Chief Executive Officer  Chuck Jeannes  said in the
statement. “We continue to believe there is no basis for
suspending operations at the mine.”  
 Delegation Visit  
 A delegation from the human-rights commission will likely
visit the mine in July, Goldcorp said today, citing a  statement 
yesterday from the Guatemalan government.  
 Jeff Wilhoit , a Goldcorp spokesman, referred Bloomberg News
to the company statement.  
 “Guatemala is not going to close one of the country’s most
important industries because of accusations that are probably
based on anecdotal and non-scientific evidence,” said  Patrick Chidley , a Stamford, Connecticut-based mining analyst at Barnard
Jacobs Mellet USA LLC. “It’s like closing down a restaurant
just because someone doesn’t like the food.”  
 Goldcorp fell 32 cents to C$46.09 at 4:10 p.m. in Toronto
Stock Exchange trading.  The shares  have risen 11 percent this
year.  
 Marlin is among mines in Guatemala established without full
consultation of indigenous Maya residents, said Rural Unity
Committee, a rights group. The Maya allege Marlin put metals in
water supplies, damaging the health of local people, according
to a University of Michigan study. Goldcorp acquired Marlin when
it paid $7.6 billion for Canada’s Glamis Gold Ltd. in 2006.  
 Human Rights  
 In 2008, the company agreed to an independent assessment of
the mine’s impact on human rights, the first such report
commissioned by a resource company to be released to the public,
according to  Robert Walker , vice president of sustainability for
Northwest & Ethical Investments LP in Toronto. The report was
published last month and recommended the company halt
exploration and expansion at Marlin until consultations are held
with local communities.  
 Barrick Gold Corp. , based in Toronto, is the world’s
largest gold producer.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Blake Schmidt  in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        