-- Guinea to Exercise Option to Buy Stake in Rio's Simandou Iron-Ore Project
-- Jesse Riseborough
-- 2010-06-24T10:13:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/guinea-demands-20-of-rio-s-simandou-iron-ore-project-as-dispute-escalates.html

          
          
             Guinea said it will exercise a right
to buy a fifth of  Rio Tinto Group ’s Simandou project, described
by the company as the world’s top undeveloped iron-ore deposit,
as a dispute over ownership of the West African site escalates.  
 The government sent a letter yesterday to Rio, the world’s
third-largest mining company, informing the producer of plans to
take the stake in blocks 3 and 4 of the site, Mines Minister
 Mahmoud Thiam  said in an interview in Conakry. Rio’s London-
based spokeswoman  Faeth Birch  declined to comment today.  
 Rio controlled the concession until the state ordered it to
hand over blocks 1 and 2 in December 2008 to closely held BSG
Resources Ltd. In April, Brazil’s  Vale SA , the world’s biggest
iron-ore exporter, agreed to pay $2.5 billion for deposits in
Guinea including those confiscated from London-based Rio.  
 Guinea has an option to buy 20 percent of the project, Rio
said in a March  statement , adding it had spent $600 million in
pre-development work at the site. That month Aluminum Corp. of
China agreed to pay $1.35 billion for 44.65 percent of the site.
Any acquisition by Guinea would proportionately reduce the
interests of other holders, Rio said at the time.  
 Rio fell 2.5 percent to 3,304.5 pence by 10:57 a.m. in
London trading, valuing it at 76 billion pounds ($114 billion).  
 The company sent a “very arrogant” letter to Guinean
President  Sekouba Konate  about Simandou that Konate “did not
like,” Thiam said yesterday. Rio must respect its obligations
in the country or risk losing its mining license, he said.  
 The company has always maintained “firm rights to the
entire mining concession that was granted based on the 2003
Mining Convention between Rio Tinto and the government,” it
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alpha Camara  in Conakry at 
 acamara4@bloomberg.net ;
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        