-- IBM Sues to Bar Former Services Manager From Joining Oracle
-- Katie Hoffmann
-- 2010-06-24T20:12:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/ibm-sues-to-bar-former-services-manager-joanne-olsen-from-joining-oracle.html

          
          
             International Business Machines
Corp.,  the largest computer-services provider, sued a former
technology services manager to keep her from working at Oracle
Corp., saying the new position violates a non-compete clause.  
 Joanne Olsen, a 31-year veteran of IBM, left the company
this month to become a senior vice president at  Oracle ,
according to the suit, filed June 16. As a general manager in
IBM’s technology services division, Olsen knew about IBM’s
growth strategies and potential acquisitions, the company said.  
 “As a long time general manager in our services business
and as a member of the company’s leadership team, Joanne Olsen
possesses valuable confidential information about IBM and our
operations,” IBM spokesman  Doug Shelton  said today in an e-
mailed statement.  
 IBM trails only Oracle and Microsoft Corp. in software
sales. Oracle bought Sun Microsystems Inc. in January for $7.4
billion to enter the server-computer market, where they’ll also
compete with IBM.  
 Olsen signed a non-compete clause in July 2009, stating she
can’t join a competitor for a year after leaving, according to
the suit. At Oracle, she would become senior vice president of
on-demand services, managing the delivery of its applications
and reporting directly to Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison ,
it said.  
 IBM, based in Armonk, New York, fell $1.92, or 1.48
percent, to $128.19 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading
today. The shares were little changed this year before today.  
 The suit comes one year after IBM tried to keep  David Johnson , its former head of mergers and acquisitions, from
joining Dell Inc., another server-computer rival. A judge
dismissed the case, saying Johnson didn’t have knowledge that
would qualify as “quintessential trade-secret information.”  
 Olsen’s lawyer,  Michael Delikat , of Orrick Herrington &
Sutcliffe, couldn’t be reached for comment. Oracle spokeswoman
 Deborah Hellinger  also didn’t respond to requests for comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        