-- Iceland Creditor Risk Grows as Banks Face Losses on $28 Billion in Loans
-- Omar R. Valdimarsson
-- 2010-06-24T14:28:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/iceland-creditor-risk-grows-as-banks-face-losses-on-28-billion-in-loans.html

          
          
             Icelandic banks may face a second
crisis as a court ruling banning some foreign currency loans
saddles lenders, mostly owned by international creditors, with
losses on $28 billion of debt.  
 The Supreme Court ruled June 16 that loans indexed to
foreign-currency rates were illegal in three cases involving
private car loans and a corporate property loan. The decisions
may mean that borrowers with such loans are only obliged to
repay the principal in kronur, making the lenders liable for
currency losses after a third of the krona’s value against the
Japanese yen and Swiss franc was erased since September 2008.  
 “If the decision means all loans in kronur linked to the
value of foreign currencies are illegal, I can’t imagine the
Icelandic banking sector will survive that,” said Oddgeir A.
Ottesen, an economist at IFS Consulting in Reykjavik, in a
telephone interview.  
 Iceland has spent the last year and a half struggling to
rebuild its financial industry after the October 2008 collapse
of its three biggest lenders. By winding down the failed banks
and making creditors shareholders in new lenders the island
sought to resurrect relations with international investors.  
 Credit default swaps on Iceland’s five-year debt rose 5
basis points to 322, the first increase this week and the
biggest jump since June 4, according to CMA DataVision prices.
The rise indicates a perceived deterioration in the country’s
credit quality. The krona dropped 0.4 percent against the euro,
its biggest loss since May 12.  
 Protect Borrowers  
 The court’s decision, based on a 2001 law designed to
protect borrowers whose incomes are in kronur, leaves the banks
to pick up the tab created by the krona’s slump. Iceland’s
currency has lost 30 percent against the Swiss franc and 40
percent against the Japanese yen, which featured prominently in
foreign borrowing, since September 15, 2008.  
 Foreign-indexed debt stands as high as 350 billion kronur
($2.75 billion) in household obligations and 3.2 trillion kronur
in corporate borrowings, the central bank estimates. The
Financial Supervisory Authority has declined to say what the
bank’s losses are on the currency’s decline.  
 Iceland’s 2008 financial crisis was exacerbated by banks
borrowing in yen and francs to take advantage of lower interest
rates, and then repackaging the loans in krona before passing
them on to clients. The loans became popular in the middle of
the last decade because of Iceland’s high benchmark rate. In
2006, when the Bank of Japan’s policy rate was 0.25 percent,
Iceland’s benchmark reached 13.3 percent.  
 ‘Worst Case’  
 While foreign currency lending is permitted, indexing krona
loans to foreign exchange rates is not, according to the June 16
rulings. The decision affects Arion Bank hf, the successor to
 Kaupthing Bank hf , Islandsbanki hf, formerly  Glitnir Bank hf ,
and NBI hf, formerly  Landsbanki Islands hf . Creditors of the
three banks include  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , Credit
Agricole Vita SpA and Deka Bank Deutsche Girozentrale.  
 Islandsbanki and Arion said in e-mailed statements today
they can fulfill the FSA’s 16 percent capital requirement rule
if the ruling only affects private loans. The government risks
losing as much as 100 billion kronur ($781 million) in a “worst
case scenario,” Economy Minister Gylfi Magnusson said in an
interview today. Other creditors of the banks may lose
“hundreds of billions” of kronur he said.  
 The  central bank  says Iceland faces a “Japanese” style
banking crisis if lenders are forced to honor contractual
interest rates, which are pegged to rates in Japan and Europe.  
 Japanese Crisis  
 Governor  Mar Gudmundsson  said yesterday that financial
institutions should be able to require borrowers to pay higher
central bank rates to shield them from losses. Iceland’s
benchmark rate is 8 percent.  
 NBI said it would be able to meet the FSA’s capital
adequacy requirement if allowed to charge central bank rates on
the loans. Arion, Islandsbanki and NBI didn’t comment on what
impact the ruling will have on their capital ratios if their
corporate loans are affected.  
 FSA Director  Gunnar Andersen  said in a June 21 interview
“it’s more than likely” that some of the island’s banks won’t
fulfill capital ratios because of the impact of the ruling.  
 Sticking to contractual rates “will have very serious
consequences for the banking sector,” Gudmundsson said.
“There’s a risk we’ll wind up with what I would call a Japanese
banking system,” where the 1990s banking crisis was
characterized by bad loans that took a decade to unwind.  
 Sue And Win?  
 Magnus Thoroddsen, a former president of Iceland’s Supreme
Court, said contractual rates apply unless the banks sue and win.
Iceland’s membership in the  European Economic Area  means
consumers are protected from paying borrowing rates that put
them at a “disadvantage,” meaning banks must accept the
contractual rates, he told broadcaster RUV.  
 The government is investigating how to protect the banks
from buckling under the debt burden the ruling saddles them with.  
 The Economy Ministry is being advised by Gisli Tryggvason,
a lawyer who heads Iceland’s  Consumer’s Ombudsman  office. He
says contractual rates should apply on shorter loans, such as
car loans.  
 “However, on long-term loans, such as mortgages, it’s a
question of two different scenarios; some of those loans have
clauses allowing interest rate amendments, which the banks could
possibly activate. Loans that the lenders gave without clauses
that allow for such amendments will probably have to be honored
at the rate originally given,” he said in an interview.  
 According to Gisli Kr. Bjornsson, a lawyer at  Lagarok Legal
Consultancy  and an expert in claims law, the Supreme Court
rulings are “crystal clear.”  
 “The fact that the court didn’t address which interest
rates should be applied to these contracts can and should be
interpreted as the court believing that the contractual rates
should be honored,” Bjornsson said in an interview. He expects
it will take about six months before a final ruling on which
interest rates the lenders must pay is reached.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Omar R. Valdimarsson  in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Local properties are reflected in windows at the Kaupthing Bank in Reykjavik, Iceland, on Tuesday, Oct. 7, 2008. Photographer: Arnaldur Halldorsson/Bloomberg News  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A pedestrian enters the Landsbanki Islands hf headquarters in Reykjavik, Iceland on Tuesday, Oct. 7, 2008. Photographer: Arnaldur Halldorsson/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
