-- Junk Bond Funds Win $1.1 Billion of Flows on U.S. Rate Outlook, EPFR Says
-- Sarah McDonald
-- 2010-06-25T01:40:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/high-yield-bond-funds-receive-1-1-billion-of-inflows-epfr-global-says.html

          
          
             Investors added the most new money
to high-yield bond funds since early March as sentiment toward
riskier assets improved, according to EPFR Global.  
 Junk debt funds saw net inflows of $1.1 billion in the week
ended June 23,  EPFR , which tracks capital flows, said in an e-
mailed statement today. All bond funds monitored by the
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm received a total of
$2.58 billion in net inflows, according to the statement.  
 Flows into high-yield bond funds were “driven by the
perception U.S. interest rates will stay at rock-bottom levels
for the rest of the year and the improved sentiment towards
emerging markets,” EPFR said in the statement.  
 Federal Reserve officials repeated a pledge to keep the
benchmark interest rate at a record low for an “extended
period” on June 23 and signaled that Europe’s debt crisis may
harm American growth. High-yield debt globally has handed
investors a 1.3 percent return this month, beating the 0.8
percent from investment-grade corporate debt, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes show. Stocks in the MSCI World Index rose
0.05 percent this month.  
 Sub-par U.S. growth is creating a “Goldilocks scenario”
of not too hot, not too cold, as rates stay low, making junk
bonds more attractive,  Manny Labrinos , a money manager at Nuveen
Investment Management who oversees $1.8 billion of fixed-income
assets, said earlier this week.  
 High-yield bonds, also known as junk, are rated less than
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and below BBB- by Standard &
Poor’s. Sales of the securities have totaled $3.95 billion this
week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        