-- IPhone 4 Better Than the Sum of Its Parts: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- Rich Jaroslovsky
-- 2010-06-24T21:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/iphone-4-is-better-than-the-sum-of-its-parts-rich-jaroslovsky.html

          
          
             It’s unfair to suggest that  Apple
Inc.  doesn’t innovate. Yet innovation isn’t what it does best.  
 The latest case in point is the new  iPhone 4 . It’s chock
full of new features -- 100 of them,  Steve Jobs  says. But many
are new only to Apple. A front-facing camera for video chatting?
Running multiple applications at one time? The ability to shoot
high-definition video in a handheld device? You don’t need an
iPhone 4 to do those things.  
 No, what Apple does best -- does brilliantly, in the case
of the iPhone 4 -- is to create a unified user experience. It
doesn’t have to invent the technology; it figures out how to fit
the technology together to make it easy, seamless and
mainstream.  
 The new video-calling application, called FaceTime, is a
prime example. At least for now, FaceTime operates under a host
of limitations. You can only make video calls if you’re on a Wi-
Fi network, if the person you’re calling is also on a Wi-Fi
network and if both of you have an iPhone 4. No matter how many
millions of phones Apple sells this year, that’s going to be a
pretty limited universe.  
 Yet the  FaceTime  process itself is simple and well-thought-
out. You simply place a normal wireless call and choose the
FaceTime button (it’s replaced the hold button on the screen you
see when you connect on a call). Your call is transparently
handed off to the Wi-Fi network, where it no longer eats your
cellular minutes.  
 Novelty for Now  
 For now, it’s a novelty, but FaceTime’s limitations won’t
be around forever, and once it’s available over the phone
companies’ networks and works with other devices, it will be the
standard against which every other smartphone maker will be
measured.  
 Physically, the new iPhone has undergone the largest
overhaul since its 2007 debut. Gone is the rounded design of all
the previous models, replaced by a thinner body that now lies
flat on a level surface. Gone too is any trace of plasticky
feel. The new exterior is made entirely of hardened glass and a
metal frame that is reputed to improve wireless reception.  
 The iPhone 4 needs all the reception help it can get,
especially in the U.S., where it’s available exclusively on  AT&T
Inc. ’s network for $299 for a 32-gigabyte model on a two-year
contract, and $199 for 16 gigabytes. Sad to say, even the new
design hasn’t eliminated the dropped calls that have plagued the
phone from its debut and tarnished AT&T’s image in key markets
like New York and San Francisco. I lost three in my first hour
of using the phone in midtown Manhattan.  
 Loud and Clear  
 If you’re actually able to get a call through, you’ll
notice some big improvements. Apple has added a second
microphone and noise-canceling technology, and the results are
instantly apparent. A hearing-impaired family member, who has
complained for years that iPhone calls aren’t loud enough,
pronounced the new model hugely better. Even the phone’s
external speaker is louder and clearer.  
 While the iPhone 4 is only slightly heavier than its
predecessor, the 3GS, it feels heftier than it is. That’s
because Apple has packed it with a good deal more stuff. The
upgraded 5-megapixel camera includes a flash and zoom. The new
gyroscope will probably first be called upon to make games even
cooler, but may also point to a new generation of location-aware
applications. The bigger battery might actually -- depending on
your usage patterns -- get you through a full day; Apple says it
provides 40 percent more talk time.  
 More Memory  
 There’s also, though the company doesn’t make a fuss about
it, twice as much internal memory as on the 3GS, which probably
contributes to the iPhone 4’s overall zippiness. Possibly the
most important speed boost comes from the same custom
microprocessor that Apple introduced on its iPad tablet this
spring. The new operating system, iOS 4, can feel a bit sluggish
on an older iPhone, but it absolutely flies on the iPhone 4.  
 For the first time, sort of, the new operating system
allows multitasking, sort of. Previously, Apple set strict
limits on when you could run more than one application at a
time. You could, for instance, check your calendar while you
were on a phone call, but couldn’t listen to  Pandora Internet
radio  while you were playing a game of Scrabble.  
 In iOS 4, Apple hasn’t done away with the restrictions, but
it’s liberalized them. In some cases -- that Internet radio
example, for instance -- it is allowing true multitasking. In
other cases, it has enabled what is essentially fast switching
between programs; one app is put into a kind of suspended
animation while you slide over to another, and resumes where you
left off when you slide back.  
 ‘Oh, No’ Moment  
 If it falls short of what you can do on phones running
 Google Inc. ’s Android operating system, it also reduces the risk
of that awful “Oh, no” moment when you realize a program you
accidentally left running in the background has drained the
battery of your  Motorola  Droid. Not that I’m admitting I’ve ever
done that, of course.  
 The operating system also introduces some useful tweaks to
the user interface. To declutter your screen, you can create
groups of apps: When I dragged Apple’s new iBooks app onto the
icon for  Amazon.com Inc. ’s Kindle, the iPhone automatically
placed them into a single folder labeled “Books.”  
 Pushing the home button twice when the iPhone is in sleep
mode brings up a set of iPod controls; pushing it twice when the
phone’s awake lets you scroll through running and recently used
applications. And everything is displayed on a new screen that
Apple boasts is vastly sharper than the old one. I don’t doubt
the company, but have to admit the old display never
particularly bothered me either.  
 While it’s hard to make the case that the iPhone 4
represents a breakthrough, that misses the point. In true Apple
fashion, the value of the overall package is greater than the
sum of its already impressive parts. The long lines and
rapturous reviews that have greeted the iPhone 4’s debut are by
and large justified.  
 ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Rich Jaroslovsky  in New York at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A customer uses the "FaceTime" app in London. Photographer Rupert Hartley/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Ross Rubin, an analyst at NPD Group Inc., talks about competition between Apple Inc., Google Inc. and Research In Motion Ltd.
     AT&T, the exclusive U.S. carrier for Apple Inc.'s iPhone, said this month it will introduce plans based on the amount of data customers use and stop offering unlimited plans to manage the soaring data traffic. Rubin speaks on Bloomberg Television's "In The Loop With Betty Liu." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Bill Kreher, an analyst at Edward Jones & Co., talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the outlook for Research in Motion Ltd. and Apple Inc., and competition between the two smartphone makers.
     Apple probably sold a record 1 million iPhones yesterday after introducing a new model, attracting crowds to stores in five countries. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
