-- Iran Gasoline, Banking Sanctions Win Passage in U.S. Senate
-- Viola Gienger
-- 2010-06-24T19:35:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/iran-gasoline-banking-sanctions-win-senate-passage-house-is-set-to-vote.html

          
          
             The U.S. Senate approved legislation
to penalize foreign companies selling gasoline to Iran and bar
banks doing business with targeted Iranian banks or the
Revolutionary Guard Corps from using the U.S. financial system.  
 The Senate voted 99-0 for the measure, and the House plans
to vote on the legislation later today. White House spokesman
 Robert Gibbs  earlier this week called the sanctions legislation
a “strong bill.”  
 While a pro-trade council opposing sanctions expressed
concern over the legislation, t he American Israel Public Affairs
Committee , a pro-Israel lobbying group, praised the measure as
“the toughest Iran sanctions bill ever to emerge from
Congress.”  
 “It provides the best hope that political and economic
measures can peaceably persuade Iran to end its illicit nuclear
program before it is too late,” AIPAC said in a statement when
House and Senate leaders reached agreement on the measure
earlier this week.  
 Israel views Iran’s nuclear and missile programs as a
threat because of Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  public
comments questioning Israel’s right to exist.  
 The expanded U.S. sanctions add to penalties imposed
earlier this month by the United Nations Security Council that
are designed to cut off financing and other support for the
regime’s conventional weapons and nuclear complex and its
Revolutionary Guard Corps.  
 Democrats and Republicans in Congress have expressed
frustration that previous sanctions either weren’t applied or
failed to have much effect.  
 The National Foreign Trade Council  cautioned that the
legislation extends sanctions to U.S. parent companies of
foreign subsidiaries or sister units that “should have known”
of violations.  
 “We are deeply concerned about the timing of this
legislation and its unintended consequences for legitimate
global commerce,” said  Bill Reinsch , president of the council,
in a statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        