-- Isner's Epic Wimbledon Win Thrills Former Georgia Tennis Coach Dan Magill
-- Michael Buteau
-- 2010-06-24T21:05:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/isner-s-epic-win-at-wimbledon-win-thrills-former-tennis-coach-at-georgia.html

          
          
             Dan Magill  has seen a lot of
tennis in his 89 years. He says nothing compares to  John Isner ’s 11-hour, 183-game win over  Nicolas Mahut  that
finally concluded today at Wimbledon.  
 Magill helped build the  University of Georgia  tennis
program, compiling a 706-183 record as the Bulldogs’ coach
in 1955-1988. Isner was an All-American at Georgia in 2004-
2007, playing his home matches at the Dan Magill Tennis
Complex.  
 “It was definitely the greatest athletic achievement
in any sport,” Magill said in a telephone interview. “It
was just a tremendous physical feat. That’s a record I
really don’t think will ever be broken.”  
 The Isner family’s dog, a cocker spaniel, is named
Magill Isner. The 25-year-old Isner wore a faded red
University of Georgia t-shirt before and after the epic
match.  
 “He’s just Mr. Perfect,” Magill said. “He’s very
popular with everybody. And fair and square in everything
he ever does.”  
 Isner’s coach at Georgia,  Manny Diaz , played for
Magill. Diaz gathered in a dorm lobby with about 65 kids
attending a summer tennis camp to watch the match’s
conclusion today.  
 “It was just a lobby full of people,” Diaz said in a
telephone interview. “It was great for everybody to be
able to watch history in the making.”  
 Diaz said he was not surprised Isner was involved in
the marathon match. At the 2006 indoor national
championships, Isner strained the arch in his foot and
“literally could not get out of bed,” Diaz said. After
helping Isner into a van and bringing him to see a trainer,
Diaz was preparing to put a substitute into the match.  
 ‘Mind-Boggling’ Accomplishments  
 “He looked at me and said, ‘I’m playing. I am not
missing this match,’” Diaz recalled. “We certainly have
seen him accomplishing some things that are mind-
boggling.”  
 A hobbling Isner defeated Pedro Rico of Pepperdine
University in straight sets that day as Georgia went on to
claim its first national indoor team title.  
 “It gave us a huge boost and we could not have won
that match without him,” Diaz said. “That’s just the kind
of guy he is. The odds really don’t count with John.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Buteau  in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        