-- Italy Eliminated From World Cup; Paraguay, Slovakia Advance
-- Bob Bensch
-- 2010-06-24T22:59:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/italy-exits-world-cup-group-stage-for-first-time-since-74-slovakia-win.html

          
          
             Slovakia beat Italy 3-2 to reach the
round of 16 at the World Cup and eliminate the defending
champion. Paraguay and Japan also advanced as the Netherlands
won its group.  
 Robert Vittek  scored two goals yesterday as Slovakia
withstood a late Italy rally in Group F, which Paraguay won with
a 0-0 tie against New Zealand.  
 “I take all responsibility for what happened,” Italy
coach  Marcello Lippi , who led the team to the title four years
ago and will now step down, said at a news conference. “If a
team shows up at such an important game with terror in the head,
heart, legs, the coach didn’t train them as he should have done.
It’s not a fantastic moment for Italian football.”  
 The Netherlands beat Cameroon 2-1 to finish atop Group E
while Japan took second with a 3-1 win over Denmark. The top two
teams in each group move into the second round.  
 “Our players were courageous, they played well and weren’t
cowardly,” Japan coach  Takeshi Okada  told reporters. “Our team
has strength which other teams don’t have, and that is 27
players and staff who are united.”  
 Japan will next face Paraguay on June 29, a day after the
Netherlands meets Slovakia.  
 Today, the last two groups will be decided. In Group G,
Portugal takes on Brazil in Durban, while North Korea plays
Ivory Coast in Nelspruit. Later, in Group H, Chile meets Spain
in Pretoria, while Switzerland and Honduras play in
Bloemfontein.  
 Vittek scored in the 25th and 73rd minutes in Johannesburg
to give Slovakia a 2-0 lead. Defender  Martin Skrtel  also blocked
an Italy shot on the goal-line in the second half.  
 Slovakia Second  
 Antonio Di Natale  then scored for Italy and Fabio
Quagliarella had a goal disallowed for offside. After Kamil
Kopunek’s goal for Slovakia, Quagliarella scored in the second
of four added minutes with a chip over goalkeeper  Jan Mucha .
With Italy needing another goal to advance, Simone Pepe shot
wide in the closing seconds.  
 Slovakia finished second in the group after starting the
day at the bottom. Italy was last as it failed to advance from
the first round for the first time since 1974.  
 “Fantastic day for us,” Slovakia coach Vladimir Weiss
said at a news conference. “Before that we were under great
pressure. After the birth of my son, this is the second-best day
of my life.”  
 Keisuke Honda gave Japan the lead in the 17th minute in
Rustenburg with a free kick from 30 yards. Yasuhito Endo curled
a free kick around the wall 13 minutes later to make it 2-0.  
 Jon Dahl Tomasson scored for Denmark in the 81st minute,
putting in the rebound after his penalty kick was stopped by
goalkeeper Eiji Kawashima. Shinji Okazaki scored the final goal
with three minutes left.  
 “I have no comment to make about the goals,” Denmark
coach Martin Olsen said. “We lost together as a team and we win
together as a team, that’s the way it goes.”  
 Van Persie Opener  
 Robin van Persie  shot between the legs of Hamidou
Souleymanou in the 36th minute to open the scoring for the
Netherlands in Cape Town.  
 Cameroon captain  Samuel Eto’o  tied the game with a penalty
kick in the 65th minute after  Rafael van der Vaart  was called
for a handball on a free kick.  Klaas Jan Huntelaar  completed the
scoring with seven minutes left by putting in the rebound after
 Arjen Robben’s  shot hit the post.  
 Group E  
 The Netherlands finished with nine points, three more than
Japan. Denmark, which needed to win to advance, had three points
and Cameroon zero.  
 “Today wasn’t as good as the last two matches,” Dutch
coach  Bert van Marwijk  told reporters. “All of a sudden we were
shaken awake. We can’t have this period of negligence on
Monday.”  
 In Polokwane, Paraguay forced five saves from New Zealand
goalkeeper Mark Paston in a slow-paced game, while the All
Whites didn’t manage a shot on target.  
 Paraguay came closest to scoring after 76 minutes when
Edgar Benitez’s shot was stopped by Paston, who recovered to
push the ball away from Lucas Barrios. Paston also kept out a
free kick by  Roque Santa Cruz  with 10 minutes remaining.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Italy's striker Vincenzo Iaquinta clashes with Slovakia's goalkeeper Jan Mucha during the Group F first round 2010 World Cup football match. Photographer: Filippo Monteforte/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
