-- Italy Left With `No Excuses' as World Cup Defense Ends in First Round Exit
-- Ron Derby
-- 2010-06-24T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/italy-left-with-no-excuses-as-world-cup-defense-ends-in-first-round-exit.html

          
          
             Defending World Cup champion Italy
offered “no excuses” after a defeat to Slovakia resulted in 
its first failure to get beyond the opening stage since 1974.  
 Yesterday’s 3-2 loss at Johannesburg’s Ellis Park followed
ties with Paraguay and New Zealand, leaving the Italians at the 
bottom of a group that bookmakers had rated them as favorites 
to top and sending Slovakia through with the South American team.  
 “We drew two matches and we lost one,” Italy squad member
 Mauro Camoranesi , an unused substitute yesterday, said after the
match. “We have no excuses.”  
 Italy had entered the soccer tournament in South Africa
seeking to tie Brazil’s record tally of five World Cup titles.
 Marcello Lippi ’s team instead follow 1998 champion France, which
didn’t win a game or score a goal four years later, in failing
to take its trophy defense beyond the group stage.  
 While the Italian squad may not meet the same fate as its
1966 predecessor, which was pelted with rotten fruit by fans on
returning home after exiting in the group stage following a
shock loss to North Korea, Lippi and his team were remorseful.  
 “I didn’t train them sufficiently,” Lippi, who retained
nine players from the 2006 title-winning campaign, told
reporters. “I offer my apologies to Italian sport, the players,
the football association, everyone.”  
 Italy fell behind in the 25th minute when  Robert Vittek 
shot from outside the penalty area and went 2-0 down in the 73rd
when Vittek added his second goal. A late rally that led to
goals from  Antonio di Natale  and Fabio Quagliarella in the 81st
minute and second-half stoppage time wasn’t enough as Kamil
Kopunek sealed Slovakia’s victory in the 89th minute.  
 Goal-line Clearance  
 Quagliarella had a goal disallowed for offside in the 85th
minute and a shot stopped on the goal line by defender  Martin Skrtel , while striker  Vincenzo Iaquinta  missed several chances.  
 “I don’t know what happened,” said  Gianluigi Buffon ,
Italy’s first-choice goalkeeper who missed the match because of
injury. “Italy is better than this. This is a moment of great
difficulty and crisis.”  
 Paraguay finished atop the group with five points ahead of
Slovakia with four. New Zealand ended on three points, one more
than Italy, after three draws.  
 Italy supporters in the Ellis Park crowd said the squad,
ranked  fifth in the world  by soccer’s governing body FIFA,
should have done better at the tournament.  
 “I am very disappointed, even against New Zealand they
didn’t perform,” said Dylan Raffanti, a 31-year-old South
African with Italian ancestry, who has been waiting to watch
Italy since the age of 5. “Why didn’t they play the whole game
like they played in the last ten minutes?”  
 Lippi had been criticized in Italy for not doing enough to
rejuvenate the team. Captain  Fabio Cannavaro , 36, is moving to
Al Ahli in Dubai after his Italian club, Juventus, didn’t renew
his contract.  
 ‘Choices’  
 “I’m sorry for the choices I made,” Lippi said.  
 Buffon, who won the World Cup in 2006 alongside players
including  Francesco Totti  and Alessandro del Piero, said the
team needs to rebuild.  
 “Today this is the Italian squad,” Buffon said. “In
three months perhaps we will have a new Totti and a new  Del Piero .”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Antony Sguazzin  at Ellis Park at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net 
 Ron Derby  at Ellis Park at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Italy's midfielder Mauro Camoranesi. Photographer: Valery Hache/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
