-- Yen, Dollar Strengthen on Speculation Global Economic Recovery Sputtering
-- Catarina Saraiva
-- 2010-06-24T21:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/japanese-yen-advances-as-federal-reserve-data-fan-concern-growth-falters.html

          
          
             The yen and the dollar gained
against most major counterparts as signs the global economic
recovery is slowing fueled demand for the safest currencies.  
 The euro rose against the greenback as traders pared bets
on its decline to lower the risk of losses in their portfolios.
The yen, whose one-month volatility was the second-lowest among
10 developed nations, remained the top performer among its 16
most-traded peers even after data showed U.S. jobless claims
declined last week. The Federal Reserve said yesterday financial
conditions have become “less supportive” of growth.  
 “The yen being higher is the perfect trade right now when
we have everything from softer policy expectations coming from
the U.S. to a little bit of risk aversion,”  Camilla Sutton ,
director of currency strategy at Bank of Nova Scotia, Canada’s
third-largest lender, said in a phone interview from Toronto.
“The market is starting to worry that there’s a lot of growth
priced in and the recovery may be slower.”  
 The yen strengthened 0.2 percent to 89.61 per dollar at 5
p.m. in New York, from 89.82 yesterday. It touched 89.23, the
strongest level since May 21. The euro advanced 0.2 percent to
$1.2333, from $1.2311, and fell 0.1 percent to 110.52 yen.  
 “People are still sort of weary to put on new risk
positions, so you’re seeing things drift into the safe havens,”
said  Brian Kim , a currency strategist at UBS AG in Stamford,
Connecticut.  
 The dollar pared gains after Labor Department data showed
the number of Americans applying for initial unemployment
benefits declined by 19,000 to 457,000 in the week ended June
19, slipping from a two-month high.  
 ‘Reduction of Risk’  
 Stocks fell, with the  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index tumbling
1.7 percent, its fourth straight day of losses.  
 The euro strengthened as much as 0.6 percent after falling
0.4 percent earlier.  
 “There’s some reduction of risk, which is also resulting
in some reduction of bearish positions against the euro,” said
 Sebastien Galy , a currency analyst at BNP Paribas SA in New
York.  
 The difference between rates on three-month loans between
banks and similar-maturity German bills fell to a two-week low
of 0.56 percentage point. The benchmark, known as the euro Ted
spread, falls as bank funding becomes easier to obtain.  
 The Swiss franc gained against 14 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts as investors sought it as a haven. It appreciated
for a third straight day, strengthening 0.2 percent to 1.1031
per dollar.  
 Low Volatility  
 Implied volatility of the yen’s value against the dollar, a
measure of price swings anticipated by options traders over the
next month, was 11.36 percent, 1.55 percentage points lower than
the comparable 12.91 percent value for euro-dollar. Volatility
in the Swiss franc versus the dollar was the lowest among the
Group of 10 currencies at 10.48 percent.  
 The cost to protect from default on the debt of Greece,
whose budget deficit set off the European crisis, surged to a
record. Credit-default swaps on the debt rose 145 basis points
to a record 1,077 basis points, according to CMA DataVision.  
 The euro has been the worst performer this year among 10
developed-nation currencies, falling 9.3 percent, according to
the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indices. The top
performer, the yen, has risen 12 percent.  
 The Fed reiterated yesterday it intended to keep interest
rates “exceptionally low” for an “extended period.”  
 ‘Less Supportive’  
 “Financial conditions have become less supportive of
economic growth on balance, largely reflecting developments
abroad,” the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee said
in its statement. “The pace of economic recovery is likely to
be moderate for a time.”  
 Leaders from the Group of 20 major economies will meet to
discuss the global economy June 26-27 in Toronto.  
 “The FOMC statement seemed to downgrade growth a notch and
characterized underlying inflation as ‘trended lower’ following
exceptionally poor housing data,” Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.
analysts including  Marc Chandler  in New York wrote in a note to
clients today. “There seems to be growing concern about growth
in the second half of 2010 and into 2011.”  
 Most policy makers around the world are more concerned
about the economy sinking back into recession than about
inflation, said  Michael Pond , co-head of U.S. interest-rate
strategy at Barclays Plc.  
 “Most central banks right now are much more concerned about
potential for a double dip” in the economy, New York-based Pond
said at “The Sovereign Debt Briefing” in London hosted by
Bloomberg Link. “Clearly policy makers will enjoy a little bit
too much of inflation right now versus a little bit of
deflation.”  
 Commerce Department data yesterday showed  sales of new
homes  slumped a record 33 percent in May to an annual pace of
300,000, the least in since at least 1963. The drop came as a
tax credit expired, indicating the market remains dependent on
government support.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Oliver Biggadike  in New York at 
 obiggadike@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Ian Stannard, a senior currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA, talks about the impact of "accomodative" monetary policy on currency markets.
     He speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Kathy Lien, director of currency research at online currency trader GFT Forex, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about the European debt crisis and the outlook for the euro.
     Lien, speaking from Sydney, also discusses the appointment of Julia Gillard as Australia’s prime minister and its implications for the nation's currency, China's yuan policy, and the outlook for the New Zealand and Canadian dollars. Lien spoke before Gillard was sworn in as prime minister.(Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
