-- JPMorgan Refits EcoSecurities for Carbon Takeovers
-- Mathew Carr
-- 2010-06-25T08:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/jpmorgan-reorganizes-carbon-unit-to-make-more-takeovers-as-market-slumps.html

          
          
             JPMorgan Chase & Co. is reorganizing
EcoSecurities, the carbon-emissions company it bought for $206
million, to pursue further takeovers even as the market for
greenhouse gases shrinks.  
 “It is possible that  EcoSecurities  will be in a position
to make additional acquisitions in this area over the next few
years,” said  Mark Nicholls , an independent director for the
Dublin-based investor in carbon credits. Nicholls served as its
chairman from 2005 until the takeover by JPMorgan last December.  
 “This was not a trading play, not a one- to three-year
plan, but a long-term plan by  JPMorgan  to get into this space
and we are delivering on that plan,” he said in a written
response to questions.  
 Boosting its wager may help JPMorgan strengthen its role in
a market that the U.S. Commodities Futures Trading Commission
says has the potential to be worth $2 trillion. Before that,
EcoSecurities Chief Executive Officer  Paul Kelly  must ride out a
slump in emissions trading after the U.S., the European Union
and Australia reined in plans to build carbon markets.  
 The acquisition “looks to the future but we don’t know
what the future is,” said  Gus Hochschild , an analyst at
Mirabaud Securities LLP in London. “People are taking
options.”  
 Scale of Business  
 EcoSecurities has taken stakes in 341 emissions-cutting
projects in developing nations, more than any other company
under a United Nations-supervised climate-change program, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 In return, the company earns tradable credits that may be
sold to other investors or to industries that use them as
pollution permits. Other UN credit investors include the Italian
utility  Enel SpA  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.   
 The value of UN-sponsored credits produced last year
dropped 59 percent to $2.7 billion as the bureaucrats running
the system struggled to process applications, the  World Bank 
said last month.  
 Kelly, the JPMorgan executive who led the acquisition team
and is now steering EcoSecurities through the slump, has cut
back investments in new projects until the regulatory outlook
clears, just as competitors are doing, Nicholls said.  
 “There’s not enough clarity to continue to be able to
invest in the market robustly,” Kelly told a May 26 conference
in Cologne.  
 Curbing Costs  
 Kelly is also reining in costs.  
 JPMorgan’s Global Commodities Head  Blythe Masters  said
Kelly took “hard decisions” to shutter offices around the
world as he slashed overhead after EcoSecurities shareholders
accepted the New York-based bank’s 124 million-pound ($206
million) offer in October, according to an internal company
memorandum in February seen by Bloomberg News.  
 EcoSecurities also cut jobs, according to three former
employees who asked not to be named. Nicholls declined to
comment on layoffs. The company had 290 staff in 25 countries at
the end of 2008, according to its annual report.  
 The restructuring meant “significant attrition,” Abyd
Karmali, global head of carbon markets at  Bank of America Merrill Lynch , said in a telephone interview. “There are a lot
of people on the beach.”  
 “Most people feel that JPMorgan were buying a portfolio
and happened to get 200 people along with it,” said  Trevor Sikorski , an analyst at Barclays Capital in London. “We used to
have a fairly good relationship with Eco, and we just don’t see
them anymore.”  
 Turning Profit  
 EcoSecurities earned 255,000 pounds on sales of 60 million
pounds in the first half of 2009 in the last report before the
takeover. That performance followed six straight years of annual
losses.  
 Even as EcoSecurities made a profit, the UN program for
reducing emissions was running into trouble.  
 The supervisory board suspended TUEV SUED AG from verifying
projects in March, the third auditor to be sanctioned in the
past two years. That has added to a backlog that has developed
as regulators try to determine whether thousands of projects
will deliver genuine carbon-emissions savings.  
 Officials in 2009 approved 684 projects to begin generating
credits and have more than 2,900 unregistered projects waiting
to be assessed, according to the UN. It takes on average more
than three years for projects to earn their first credits after
their applications are submitted, the World Bank said.  
 Climate Talks  
 UN-led negotiations to secure global limits on carbon
dioxide emissions are stalled after world leaders failed to
broker a deal at the Copenhagen climate summit in  December. The
WilderHill New Energy Index  of 88 renewable-energy stocks, after
surging 40 percent in 2009, has slumped 24 percent this year,
more than the 7 percent drop of the  MSCI World index .  
 Other companies are following similar acquisition plans,
betting that politicians can secure an agreement in the next few
years. Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , who took office
yesterday, said she will try to revive the country’s carbon
trading scheme if she wins re-election in the next few months.  
 Barclays Plc  offered 1.1 billion kronor ($141 million) in
cash through its TAV AB unit for  Tricorona AB , a Stockholm-based
carbon credit developer, on June 2. Bloomberg LP, the parent of
Bloomberg News, acquired the energy analysis company New Energy
Finance Ltd. in December.  
 EcoSecurities was set up by Brazilian scientist Pedro Moura
Costa in 1997. It advised companies in nations such as India and
China on how to claim UN credits for cutting emissions,
sometimes taking stakes in those projects, and helped them sell
the resulting certificates. Polluters in Europe or Japan use UN
credits to meet their obligations under climate-protection laws.  
 Under Moura Costa, the company sometimes allowed employees
to pursue their interests ahead of profits and the cost
structure grew too large, Nicholls said.  
 “In the early stages it was a bit of a lifestyle company,”
Nicholls said. “The overwhelming wish of the independent
directors was to try and get profitable. We received a number of
approaches and everyone involved a significant cut in the cost
base.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sills  in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     EcoSecurities CEO Paul M. Kelly attends a panel discussion during a summit in Shanghai. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
