-- Upper House Election Race Kicks Off With Focus on Raising Japan Sales Tax
-- Takashi Hirokawa
-- 2010-06-24T11:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/kan-opposition-ldp-start-upper-house-race-with-focus-on-japan-sales-tax.html

          
          
             Japan’s political parties today began
campaigning for mid-term elections that will determine the
ruling bloc’s ability to freely pass legislation, with debate
centering on whether to raise the national  consumption tax .  
 Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s  Democratic Party of Japan  is
fielding 106 candidates for 121 seats in the July 11 contest for
the Diet’s  upper house , seeking to maintain his coalition’s slim
majority. Kan has called for cross-party talks on raising the
tax and said he’ll consider a proposal to double it to 10
percent, a plan opposed by DPJ ally the  People’s New Party .  
 “It will be impossible for the ruling coalition to gain a
majority,” said  Minoru Morita , an independent political analyst
in Tokyo. “This will become a race with no winners.”  
 In order for the ruling coalition to keep a majority in the
upper house, the DPJ together with the PNP must win 56 spots.
Kan two days ago said he’s seeking to keep all 54 of his party’s
seats, while the PNP is fielding 9 candidates. Half the
chamber’s 242 seats are up for grabs.  
 A total of 438 candidates are competing for the open
positions, Kyodo News reported. The  Liberal Democratic Party ,
which held almost unbroken power since 1955 until its defeat to
the DPJ in the more powerful lower house last August, is
fielding 84 candidates.  
 Economic Struggles  
 The new administration is struggling to reverse persistent
falling prices, near-record  unemployment  and a shrinking
population. Growth in exports and production have helped the
world’s second-largest economy extend a rebound from recession.  
 “We promise to get the Japanese economy on a recovery
track,” Kan said today at a campaign appearance in Osaka.
“Based on our experience of trials and errors since September,
we want to be able to decisively deliver our promises, and we
need your votes.”  
 Kan, who replaced  Yukio Hatoyama  as prime minister two
weeks ago, said on June 22 he will seek alliances with other
parties should the coalition fail to retain its majority. PNP
leader  Shizuka Kamei , who resigned as a member of Kan’s cabinet
June 11 over a policy, said the same day that raising the tax
shows a “lack of understanding” about people’s suffering.  
 The LDP supports doubling the 5 percent tax to tackle the
world’s largest public  debt . Kan said it will take at least two
to three years until the tax is raised.  
 GDP Growth  
 Japan’s gross domestic product rose an annualized 4.9
percent in the first quarter this year led by exports, a Cabinet
Office report said in May, following a 4.2 percent expansion in
the previous quarter.  
 Some economists said Kan’s emphasis on raising the sales
tax was misguided.  
 “Japan’s biggest problem is deflation,” said  Naoki Iizuka ,
senior economist at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo. “The first
thing to do is to beat deflation and get nominal GDP to grow,
redistribute tax revenue and cut spending. A tax increase should
come at the end.”  
 Kan’s administration had an approval rating of 55 percent
in a Yomiuri newspaper survey published June 21, down from 59
percent a week before. Forty-eight percent said they approve of
the idea to double the sales tax while 44 percent disapproved.
About 32 percent of respondents said they will vote for the DPJ
in the next election while 15 percent favored the LDP. The paper
surveyed 1,114 people from June 18-20 and didn’t provide a
margin of error.  
 Kan said he doesn’t intend to resign, even if his party
fails to win 54 seats in the election. “I’m not thinking at all
of giving up so soon,” he told national broadcaster NHK.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
 Takashi Hirokawa  in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Naoto Kan, Japan's prime minister and president of the Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ), speaks during a campaign rally for the July 11 Upper House election in Osaka, Japan.  Photographer: Toshiyuki Aizawa/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
