-- KB Financial's New Chairman Euh Aims to Boost Company Value at Least 30%
-- Brett Miller
-- 2010-06-25T07:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/kb-financial-s-new-chairman-euh-aims-to-boost-company-value-at-least-30-.html

          
          
             KB Financial Group Inc. ’s newly
nominated chairman,  Euh Yoon Dae , aims to boost the value of
the company by at least 30 percent as he cuts costs, shifts
workers from the head office in Seoul to branches and
increases fee income with services including mobile banking.  
 Euh, 65, said that while market conditions will dictate
the pace of consolidation among South Korea’s financial
companies, he doesn’t plan to make any takeovers for at least
two years. Combining KB Financial, owner of the nation’s
biggest bank, with rival  Woori Finance Holdings Co.  is one
option to consider in the future, he said.  
 “If I cannot improve our stock value, I have to quit
the job,” Euh, who will become chairman on July 13, said in
an interview in Seoul yesterday. “We have to convince
investors that KB has the growth potential.”  
 The professor of business administration fills a void
left nine months ago when his predecessor, Hwang Young Key,
was forced out amid government criticism of his record during
the global credit crunch. Euh may benefit from an economy
forecast to expand 5.8 percent this year and South Korea’s
plans to sell its 57 percent stake in Woori and list state-
run KDB Financial Group Inc. on the stock market.  
 The company’s current  price-to-book  ratio of about 1 is
too low and Euh said he aims to raise it 1.3 to 1.4. He
didn’t provide a time frame.  
 Beaten by Peers  
 The  shares  rose 0.2 percent to close at 49,550 won in
Seoul, compared with the benchmark Kospi index’s 0.6 percent
decline. The company has fallen 17 percent this year while
the 60-stock Korea Financial Industry Index is down 4.8
percent in 2010.  
 ”KB shares have been pressured by the leadership
vacancy,” said  Hwang Seok Kyu , an analyst at Kyobo
Securities Co. in Seoul. “It will be good if Euh meets
investors and listens to their opinions, but it’ll take time
to win their confidence.”  
 Euh, who is linked to the government as chairman of the
Presidential Council of Nation Branding, said he hadn’t
initially envisaged himself leading a commercial bank and
financial holding company.  
 “I wanted to become the head of central bank,” he said.
“Somehow, I couldn’t get the job.”  
 He was a contender to run the Bank of Korea before
President  Lee Myung Bak  named  Kim Choong Soo  for the post,
the Dong-A Ilbo newspaper reported on Feb. 27.  
 Monetary Thinking  
 Euh, who teaches at Korea University in Seoul, has a
doctorate from the University of Michigan and served on the
central bank’s monetary policy committee from 1992 to 1995,
according to a profile provided by his office. He was Korea
University president from 2003 to 2006.  
 Euh said Woori’s strength in providing banking services
to South Korea’s biggest companies could fill gaps at KB
Financial, which has more focus on individual borrowers and
savers.  
 “Not only because of the diversification of the
business portfolio, but also the profile of their clients,
it’s complementary,” Euh said, citing areas including
Woori’s investment banking and corporate lending.  
 South Korea is preparing to announce this month how it
will sell its stake in  Woori Finance , and aims to start the
sale processes in the second half of the year, the Financial
Service Commission said.  
 Margin Improvement  
 Euh said he’ll work to increase the net interest  margin 
at the Kookmin Bank unit, and will benefit from likely
increases in the central bank’s benchmark rate from the third
quarter.  
 South Korea’s finance ministry yesterday raised its
economic growth forecast for this year to 5.8 percent from
the 5 percent projected in December, saying the faster-than-
expected global recovery has spurred exports and domestic
demand. The country will ”normalize’ its accommodative
policies and take pre-emptive steps against inflation as the
economy is set to grow faster than previously forecast.  
 Kookmin Bank had a net interest margin of 2.82 percent
in the first quarter, compared with 3.08 percent two years
ago, according to company data.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       KB Financial’s Euh Aims to Boost Company Value at Least 30  
                       
                         
                           Presidential Council of Nation Branding via Bloomberg 
                         
                         KB Financial Group Inc.’s newly nominated chairman, Euh Yoon Dae. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     KB Financial Group Inc.’s newly nominated chairman, Euh Yoon Dae. Source: Presidential Council of Nation Branding via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
