-- Kyrgyzstan Clashes Threaten to Undermine Referendum as Uzbeks Shun Voting
-- Joanna Lillis
-- 2010-06-24T21:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/kyrgyz-violence-may-undermine-credibility-of-referendum-on-new-government.html

          
          
             Kyrgyzstan’s provisional government
may fail to get the legitimacy it seeks from a June 27
referendum as analysts say recent violence will prevent many
voters from casting their ballots.  
 The interim administration is asking voters to approve a
new constitution that would replace presidential rule with
parliamentary government after the overthrow of former President
 Kurmanbek Bakiyev  in April.  
 Many ethnic Uzbek voters in southern Kyrgyzstan won’t
participate in the referendum after they were targeted by ethnic
violence that killed at least 251 people and displaced 400,000
this month, said Nur Omarov, who heads the Association of
Political Analysts of Kyrgyzstan. Uzbeks make up about 14
percent of Kyrgyzstan’s 5.3 million people.  
 “How can a referendum held without their participation be
legitimate for the Uzbek population?” Omarov said in Bishkek,
the capital. “These people will hardly go happily to the polls
to take part in the referendum. They will consider this ruling
power illegitimate and the referendum illegitimate.”  
 Government leaders say the referendum is necessary to bring
stability back to the Central Asian nation. A “yes” vote would
pave the way for Oct. 10 parliamentary elections and leave
interim leader  Roza Otunbayeva  in place as caretaker president
until 2011.  
 The bloodshed has forced the government to alter plans for
the referendum, Lydia Imanalieva, Kyrgyzstan’s ambassador to the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, said at a
June 23 briefing in Vienna.  
 Camp Voting  
 Uzbek representatives will be added to the electoral
commission, and election officials plan to offer refugees who
fled to Uzbekistan the chance to vote from the border camps
where they are staying, she said.  
 The referendum will be legitimate if 30 percent of eligible
voters go to the polls, Imanalieva said. The provisional
government suspended a law that would have required 50 percent
participation.  
 “We should not forget the positive experience under Soviet
rule,” when every ethnic group received some form of
representation, Imanalieva said. She described the violence as
uncharacteristic “ethnic craziness” while there have been
long-standing disputes over land and water between Uzbek and
Kyrgyz residents.  
 The OSCE plans to send 100 volunteers to  Kyrgyzstan  to
monitor the election.  
 The U.S. and Russia agree that holding the referendum is a
sovereign decision for Kyrgyzstan, while encouraging the
government to conduct the vote according to international
standards, the State Department said in a June 20 statement.  
 Air Bases  
 Both countries maintain air bases in Kyrgyzstan. The U.S.
relies on the Manas base outside Bishkek to support military
operations in Afghanistan.  
 Almazbek Atambayev, deputy leader of the interim
government, said June 22 that those who instigated the violence
were “playing the ethnic card” to cause chaos. Atambayev said
last week that the violence was orchestrated by people close to
Bakiyev.  
 “Their main aim is to disrupt the national referendum and
the adoption of a new constitution,” he said. “But we must lay
the foundations of a strong, democratic state.”  
 Kyrgyzstan has seen two presidents overthrown in the space
of five years amid public anger about corruption and nepotism.  
 The country was ranked 162nd out of 180 countries in
Transparency International’s 2009 corruption perceptions index.
Bakiyev’s son, Maxim, was head of the Central Agency for
Development of Investment and Innovation, which oversaw Russian
aid funds.  
 ‘Morally Wrong’  
 The violence broke out June 10 in Osh, Kyrgyzstan’s
second-largest city, and has left authorities struggling to
restore order in the southern part of the country.  
 Otunbayeva has said the final death toll may rise to 2,000
once all the victims are counted. About 25 percent of the
400,000 people displaced by the violence have fled to refugee
camps in neighboring Uzbekistan, according to the  United Nations 
Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, with
offices in New York and Geneva.  
 The government’s determination to push ahead with a vote is
unwise, said Edil Baysalov, Otunbayeva’s former chief of staff,
who founded the Aykol El party after resigning June 7. Holding
the vote now will disenfranchise voters in the south who already
feel excluded from the political process, he said.  
 Osh and nearby Jalal-Abad “are in ruins,” Baysalov said.
“To speak as if we just have to go on as if nothing has
happened is just morally wrong.”  
 Removing Barriers  
 Confidence in the provisional government has been dented by
its inability to stem the bloodshed.  
 Security forces moved to restore order in the south this
week, removing barricades Uzbeks had erected between their
communities and Kyrgyz areas, and carrying out a security sweep
in the mainly Uzbek village of Nariman.  
 This has further undermined confidence before the
referendum, says Paul Quinn-Judge, Central Asia project director
at the International Crisis Group, a Brussels-based non-
governmental organization that seeks to prevent conflict.  
 “I don’t see any way this referendum can achieve the aims
the government has set for it, which is to increase its
legitimacy,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Joanna Lillis in Bishkek, through the London newsroom at +44-
   joannalillis123@gmail.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A woman sits in a bus in the town of Osh, in Kyrgyzstan. Photographer: Viktor Drachev/AFP/Getty Images)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
