-- New Zealand's Trade Surplus Widened to $577 Million in May, Data Shows
-- Tracy Withers
-- 2010-06-25T00:03:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/new-zealand-s-trade-surplus-widened-to-577-million-in-may-data-shows.html

          
          
             New Zealand’s  trade surplus  widened
in May as a seasonal increase in farm production and China’s
demand for logs and milk boosted exports to a record.  
 The surplus increased to NZ$814 million ($576 million) from
a revised NZ$665 million in April,  Statistics New Zealand  said
today in Wellington. That was less than the NZ$850 million
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 12 economists.  
 Exports, which make up 30 percent of gross domestic product,
have been climbing as prices of New Zealand commodity shipments
rose to an all-time high amid surging demand from nations such
as China. They could increase further as China’s June 19 move to
allow a stronger yuan may stoke its demand for foreign goods.  
 “The outlook for the trade balance depends crucially on
the performance of commodity prices, although strong volume
demand from Australia and China would obviously be useful,”
said  Philip Borkin , an economist at Goldman Sachs JBWere Ltd. in
Auckland. Prices will be maintained at record-high levels “in
the near term given a positive demand/supply backdrop,” he said.  
 New Zealand’s dollar was little changed after the report.
It bought 70.75 U.S. cents at 11:40 a.m. in Wellington from
70.81 cents immediately before the report.  
 The monthly figures aren’t seasonally adjusted and New
Zealand’s exports typically increase between February and May as
milk, wool and meat production peaks.  
 Milk Powder  
 Exports  rose 5.9 percent from April to NZ$4.2 billion,
today’s report showed. As well as dairy and log shipments, there
were increased sales of crude oil, the statistics agency said.  
 Commodity prices  increased 2.5 percent in May from April,
according to an index compiled by ANZ National Bank Ltd.
 Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. , the world’s largest dairy
exporter, last month raised the price it will pay farmers for
milk in the new season beginning June 1.  
 Exports to China increased 26 percent from a year earlier
to NZ$451 million, today’s report showed. China now buys 10
percent of total annual exports and is New Zealand’s second-
largest customer after Australia.  
 Imports  rose 2.6 percent from April to NZ$3.39 billion,
bolstered by the purchase of large aircraft, today’s report
showed. The value of transport equipment imports climbed to
NZ$116 million from NZ$55 million in April. Crude oil imports
declined 1.5 percent as prices fell.  
 From a year earlier, imports surged 11 percent while
exports rose 6 percent. Stronger demand for imports led to the
annual trade balance narrowing to a NZ$91 million surplus in the
12 months ended May 31 from a revised NZ$182 million in the year
through April. Economists expected annual trade would be
balanced.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        