-- New York May Begin Taxing Clothes Sales to Close Budget Gap, Paterson Says
-- Michael Quint
-- 2010-06-24T18:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/new-york-may-begin-taxing-clothing-sales-to-close-9-2-billion-budget-gap.html

          
          
             New York  Governor  David Paterson 
said a sales tax on clothing purchases of less than $110 might
be part of actions needed to close the state’s $9.2 billion
budget deficit.  
 “Taxes on clothes has been brought back to us” by
legislators, Paterson said in an interview on New York City
radio station  WOR  today. “It’s in the discussion phase.”  
 Lawmakers face a June 28 deadline set by Paterson for
agreement on a budget covering the year that began April 1. If
no agreement is in place by then, Paterson has said he will
submit his own budget plan in an emergency spending bill, which
lawmakers would have to approve, or shut down the government.  
 Paterson’s $135.2 billion budget proposed earlier this year
includes cuts in aid to school districts and a tax on sweetened
beverages that lawmakers oppose. Additional taxes should close
10 percent to 13 percent of the deficit, or $920 million to $1.2
billion, Paterson said in an interview on radio station  WGY  in
Albany.  
 Taxing clothing sales or finding revenue by other means is
needed because lawmakers are balking at  Paterson’s proposals  to
raise $710 million by allowing wine sales in grocery stores and
imposing a new levy equaling 1 cent per ounce on sweetened
beverages, the governor said.  
 ‘More Sense’  
 “The sugar tax on soft drinks makes more sense” than
taxing clothing, New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg said at a
news conference in Manhattan today. Sweetened beverages are an
optional purchase “whereas you have to have clothing,” which
New Yorkers would seek to buy in neighboring states with lower
taxes, he said.  
 Paterson and state Health Commissioner  Richard Daines  have
said the beverage tax would help reduce obesity, which leads to
ailments costing state taxpayers $7 billion or more per year in
medical expenses.  
 Lawmakers last week approved a $1.60 per pack increase in
cigarette taxes to $4.35, and a rise to 75 percent from 46
percent in the tax on tobacco products such as snuff and cigars.
Higher tobacco taxes may raise $290 million this year, said
Budget Director  Robert Megna .  
 The Legislature also approved a plan to begin collecting
tax on cigarettes sold from American Indian reservations to non-
tribal members. That should raise $150 million, Megna said.  
 Tax on Clothing  
 Applying the state’s 4 percent sales tax to clothing
purchases below $110 would raise $660 million over 12 months,
according to budget  documents . Less revenue would be raised if
lawmakers allowed sales-tax holidays, such as for back-to-school
shopping in August.  
 A sales tax on clothing and footwear costing less than $110
was last imposed in a three-year period that ended April 1,
2006. Other items exempt from the state sales tax include food,
drugs and medical supplies, and capital improvements, according
to the state’s annual information  statement .  
 The tax on clothing was proposed by Paterson last year to
help close a record $17.9 billion deficit. The idea was
abandoned when lawmakers decided to increase income taxes to as
high as 8.97 percent on those earning $500,000 or more.  
 The New York City mayor is founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        