-- Nicaragua Says Ecopetrol Can't Claim Caribbean Oil Block Until Hague Rules
-- Blake Schmidt
-- 2010-06-24T17:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/nicaragua-says-ecopetrol-can-t-claim-caribbean-oil-block-until-hague-rules.html

          
          
             Nicaragua’s hydrocarbons director
said Colombia shouldn’t be allowed to offer oil concessions in
disputed Caribbean waters which the Central American country is
fighting for control of in the  International  Court of Justice.  
 Colombia’s state oil company,  Ecopetrol  SA, was the highest
bidder June 22 for two exploration blocks near the Caribbean
island of San Andres. Nicaragua claims one of the blocks and
part of the other, said Veronica Artiles, head of hydrocarbon
development for Nicaragua’s  Ministry of Energy and Mines .  
 “That’s impossible because those blocks are currently in
litigation in The Hague,” Artiles said by phone from Managua.
“They cannot grant concessions until the case is resolved.”  
 The International Court in 2007 upheld a 1928 treaty that
gave Colombia sovereignty over San Andres. It has yet to rule on
conflicting  maritime claims . Costa Rica and Honduras have also
filed petitions with The Hague claiming rights in the dispute.  
 Nicaragua doesn’t recognize the 1928 treaty granting the
area to Colombia because it was signed during a U.S. military
occupation. The accord was agreed upon as the U.S. was expanding
military power in the hemisphere to control the Panama Canal,
former Nicaraguan Foreign Minister  Norman Caldera  said.  
 Caldera, author of a book on Nicaragua’s sovereignty claim
over the island, said he expects a ruling by The Hague within a
year.  
 Disputes over Central American waters are escalating as the
region’s growing economies seek offshore oil to power growth and
as fishing boats cross more frequently into neighboring waters,
Caldera said.  
 Chances at Hague  
 Kevin Casas-Zamora, a senior fellow at the  Brookings
Institution , said it’s unlikely Nicaragua will prevail at The
Hague. President Daniel Ortega is focusing on the dispute to
cause trouble for Colombia and distract public attention from
domestic problems, he said.  
 “I would be surprised if The Hague comes up with anything
that changes the status quo,” in which Colombia will explore
for oil in the disputed waters, Casas-Zamora said. “For Ortega
it’s a way of poking the eye of the Colombians.”  
 Ortega’s closest ally, Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez,
has strained relations with Colombia, and Ortega has given
asylum to at least three alleged members of Colombia’s largest
rebel group, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia.  
 In a meeting with Chavez in April, Ortega accused Colombia
of promoting an expansionist policy and said its military is
occupying potential offshore oil deposits in Nicaragua’s
Caribbean territory.  
 Competing Claims  
 Nicaragua claims about 20,000 square kilometers (7,200
square miles) in the area offered for auction by Colombia,
according to maps provided by the two countries’ hydrocarbon
agencies.  
 Ecopetrol  said it will explore in Cayos blocks 1 and 5 in a
partnership with Madrid-based Repsol YPF SA and Buenos Aires-
based YPF SA, according to a  statement . Nicaragua plans to offer
exploration in block 1 and part of block 5 though no date has
been set for an auction, said Artiles.  
 Ecopetrol didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Blake Schmidt  in Managua, Nicaragua, at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        