-- Nippon Yusen May Beat Annual Profit Forecast on Container-Shipping Demand
-- Kiyotaka Matsuda
-- 2010-06-25T12:18:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/nippon-yusen-may-beat-annual-profit-forecast-on-container-shipping-demand.html

          
          
             Nippon Yusen K.K., Japan’s largest
shipping line by sales, said it may beat the annual profit
forecast at its container-carrying unit as rebounding demand
allows the introduction of peak-season surcharges.  
 The company plans to add an extra $200 per 20-foot
container on Asia-North America routes beginning as early as
this month through September,  Mikitoshi Kai , its head of
investor relations, said in an interview in Tokyo yesterday. The
company hadn’t included the levy in its profit forecast, he said.  
 Nippon Yusen, expecting the first profit in three years at
its container division, has also returned all of its laid up box
ships to service as an economic rebound spurs U.S. demand for
car parts, electronics and buildings materials.  Mitsui O.S.K.
Lines Ltd.  and  Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. , the second and third-
largest Japanese shipping lines by sales, are also predicting a
return to profit this fiscal year for container operations.  
 “All three operators are probably going to produce better
than expected profit,” said  Janet Lewis , an analyst at
Macquarie Capital Securities (Japan) Ltd. “The key is whether
they take container ships off after the peak season to maintain
prices.”  
 Nippon Yusen had predicted a 500 million yen ($5.6 million)
pretax profit from container shipping in the year ending March
31, compared with a loss of 55.4 billion yen last fiscal year.
Mitsui O.S.K. and Kawasaki Kisen have also both forecast a 500
million yen profit for container operations this fiscal year.  
 ‘Space is Tight’  
 “We’re optimistic that they will accept the surcharge,”
Kai said about customers. “Space is tight. We should be able to
meet our 500 million yen forecast easily and I reckon we will
make more.” He didn’t give an exact estimate for the unit and
declined to comment on companywide profit.  
 The peak-season surcharge comes after Tokyo-based Nippon
Yusen negotiated rate increases of as much as $400 per container
in annual contracts beginning from last month, Kai said.  
 “We got an almost 100 percent agreement on the rate
increase,” he said. “We were satisfied.”  
 Nippon Yusen  fell 1.5 percent to 341 yen on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange today. Mitsui O.S.K. and Kawasaki Kisen both slid about
2 percent. Nippon Yusen has risen 20 percent this year, compared
with a 29 percent gain at Mitsui O.S.K. and a 46 percent
increase at Kawasaki Kisen.  
 Nippon Yusen has said it will cut 20 billion yen in costs
companywide this fiscal year, including 15 billion yen at the
container unit. The company may be able to save a “few billion
yen” more at the container arm, Kai said.  
 The shipping line in April forecast net income of 35
billion yen this fiscal year, compared with a loss of 17 billion
yen last year.  
 Industrywide container shipments rose for a fourth month
from Asia to North America in March, following a more than two-
year decline, according to the  Japan Maritime Center .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
 Kiyotaka Matsuda  in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        