-- North Korea Limits Shipping, Prompting South to Warn Against Provocation
-- Bomi Lim
-- 2010-06-25T05:08:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/north-korea-declares-no-sail-zone-off-western-coast-joongang-ilbo-says.html

          
          
             North Korea declared a sailing ban
in an area off its western coast, prompting South Korea to be on
watch for possible military moves by the communist nation, a
South Korean military official said.  
 South Korea hasn’t detected any abnormal military
activities in North Korea and is closely monitoring the area,
said an official at the Joint Chiefs of Staff in Seoul, without
giving further details. He declined to be named when reached by
telephone today, citing regulations.  
 South Korea’s  Yonhap News  reported earlier today the nine-
day ban, lasting until June 27, may be an indication North Korea
is preparing to test-fire short-range missiles. The ban may also
have been imposed for artillery exercises, Yonhap said.  
 North Korea declaring a no-sail zone has sometimes preceded
missile tests or other military drills in the past. Tensions are
already high on the peninsula after North Korea warned of “all-
out war” against any punitive action for its alleged role in
sinking South Korea warship Cheonan in March, killing 46 sailors.  
 “North Korea should stop reckless military provocations,”
South Korean President Lee Myung Bak said today in a televised
speech at a ceremony in Seoul marking the 60th anniversary of
the outbreak of the 1950-1953 Korean War. “North Korea should
admit to its attack on Cheonan, apologize and display a
responsible attitude in front of the international community.”  
 The two nations remain divided since the war ended in a
cease-fire that was never replaced by a peace treaty.  
 North Korea conducted artillery drills in western waters in
January after banning ships from the area. The communist country
also set no-sail zones in May 2009 before firing short-range
missiles and carrying out a nuclear test.  
 A South Korea-led multinational team said on May 20 North
Korea torpedoed the 1,200-ton Cheonan off the peninsula’s west
coast near the disputed border. South Korea, backed by the U.S.,
is pushing for United Nations Security Council condemnation of
North Korea.  
 China, which holds veto power on the Security Council, has
refrained from criticizing  Kim Jong Il ’s regime for the attack.
North Korea has repeatedly denied it sank the warship.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        