-- Novartis's Gleevec Cancer Drug Fails to Win U.K. Backing for GIST Patients
-- Kristen Hallam
-- 2010-06-24T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/novartis-s-gleevec-cancer-drug-fails-to-win-u-k-backing-for-gist-patients.html

          
          
             Novartis AG ’s Gleevec cancer
treatment failed to win the backing of the U.K.’s adviser on
health-care costs for use in patients that have had
gastrointestinal stromal tumors surgically removed.  
 Giving patients Gleevec after surgery can delay the
recurrence of the cancer, though more information is needed
about whether the drug can extend life, the  National Institute
for Health and Clinical Excellence  said today in an e-mailed
statement. The agency, known as NICE, separately recommended
using five medicines for certain rheumatoid arthritis patients.  
 Gleevec last year had  revenue  of $3.9 billion, making it
the company’s second-best seller after the heart drug Diovan,
which brought in $6 billion. The medicine costs about 19,500
pounds ($29,185) a year for each patient. NICE advises the
National Health Service to use Gleevec, also called imatinib,
for gastrointestinal stromal tumors that can’t be removed.  
 “Imatinib may delay cancer recurring in certain people who
have had surgery to remove their tumors, but it is not clear
that it increases survival or that it improves patients’ quality
of life,” said NICE Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Dillon  in
the statement. “We need to be sure about how well it works and
what its side effects are before we can recommend it.”  
 In a separate statement, NICE said it  recommended  the use
of  Roche Holding AG ’s MabThera, Abbott Laboratories’ Humira,
Pfizer Inc.’s Enbrel, Merck & Co.’s Remicade, and Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co.’s Orencia for use in some rheumatoid arthritis
patients. MabThera, in combination with generic drug
methotrexate, is an option for adults whose disease hasn’t
adequately responded to other treatments. Humira, Enbrel,
Remicade and Orencia were recommended for hard-to-treat cases in
which patients can’t take MabThera.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Hallam  in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        