-- Obama Says Too Soon to Say Whether China's Currency Flexibility Sufficient
-- Nicholas Johnston
-- 2010-06-24T19:27:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/obama-says-too-soon-to-say-whether-china-s-currency-flexibility-sufficient.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  said it’s too
soon to say whether China’s decision to allow more flexibility
for its currency will be sufficient to rebalance the world
economy.  
 “The initial signs were positive but it’s too early to
tell,” Obama said at a joint news conference with Russian
President  Dmitry Medvedev  at the White House.  
 China’s peg of its currency to the dollar had provided
China with an “unfair trade advantage,” and the U.S. has told
the Chinese government “we expect change,” Obama said. “China
made progress by making its announcement.”  
 China’s government said June 19 that it was lifting a two-
year-old policy of pegging the yuan to the U.S. dollar and would
allow its currency to trade more freely. The yuan climbed 0.19
percent to close at 6.7997 per dollar in Shanghai. It has gained
0.39 percent this week.  
 Obama said his administration “did not expect a complete
20 percent appreciation” because that would be damaging to the
world economy. Still, further appreciation that would make the
currency “more in line with economic fundamentals” would be
good for the U.S. and Chinese economies, the president said.  
 “We will continue to monitor and verify how rapidly these
changes are taking place,” he said.  
 Congressional Pressure  
 The administration is under pressure from some members of
Congress to push harder on China over currency. Senator  Charles Schumer , a Democrat from New York, said he will seek a vote soon
on legislation to let U.S. companies seek tariffs on Chinese
 imports  to help offset China’s weak currency.  
 The U.S.  trade deficit  with China reached $71 billion for
the first four months of the year, up 5.8 percent from the same
period of 2009, according to U.S. government data.  
 Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Qin Gang told reporters
in Beijing earlier that a revalued yuan won’t solve U.S.
economic woes.  
 “The appreciation of the yuan cannot bring balanced
trade,” Qin said. Yuan appreciation “cannot help to solve U.S.
problems of unemployment, overconsumption and low savings
rate.”  
 Pressure on China to act further on its currency also comes
ahead of the Group of 20 summit June 26-27 Toronto, which
Chinese President  Hu Jintao  will attend. Obama and Hu are
scheduled to have a bilateral meeting June 26 while at the
summit.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Craig Ferguson, a currency hedge fund manager at Antipodean Capital Management, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about his forecast for the Australian dollar.
     Ferguson, speaking from Melbourne, also discusses the implications of Julia Gillard's appointment as Australia's prime minister on the nation's currency and proposed mining profits tax, and the outlook for the yuan. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Tim Adams, a former U.S. Treasury undersecretary and now managing director of the Lindsey Group, a Fairfax, Virginia-based investment consulting company, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the shift in China's currency policy and its implications for the nation's relations with the U.S. 
     Adams, speaking from Washington, also discusses the outlook for the Group of 20 summit in Toronto, U.K.'s budget, and U.S. and European fiscal policies. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Jing Ulrich, chairwoman for China equities and commodities at JPMorgan Chase & Co., talks about China's decision to end the yuan's peg to the U.S. dollar and the outlook for the currency. 
     Ulrich also discusses Chinese stocks, the country's economy and her investment strategy for China. Ulrich talks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
