-- Obama Was First to Raise Petraeus's Name for Afghan Command, Gates Says
-- Tony Capaccio
-- 2010-06-24T19:31:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/obama-was-first-to-raise-petraeus-s-name-for-afghan-command-gates-says.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  came up with
the idea to name General  David Petraeus  to replace General
 Stanley McChrystal  as head of U.S. and NATO forces in
Afghanistan, Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said.  
 It was “the best possible outcome to an awful situation,”
Gates told reporters at the Pentagon today. “It was the
president who first raised Petraeus’s name. And it immediately
to me answered a lot of the concerns that I had.”  
 “My primary concern over the past few days has been to
minimize the impact of these developments on the conduct of the
war in Afghanistan,” Gates said. “The president’s decisions
fully and satisfactorily address that concern.”  
 Petraeus’s appointment is subject to Senate confirmation
that could come as early as next week. He will lead a force of
142,000 U.S. and allied troops who are now in the midst of a
possibly decisive offensive to push the Taliban out of their
heartland of Kandahar Province in southern Afghanistan.  
 “It is slower and harder than we anticipated,” Gates said
in response to questions. “I do not believe we are bogged
down,” he said. “I believe we are making some progress.  
 Gates said he fully supports Obama’s decision yesterday to
after the commander and his staff were quoted in a magazine
article making disparaging comments about civilian leaders.  
 No Change in Strategy  
 Gates and Admiral  Michael Mullen , chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff and Obama’s top military adviser, echoed Obama’s
assurance that the change in command doesn’t reflect a shift in
strategy or policy on Afghanistan.  
 “No one, be they adversaries or friends or especially our
troops, should misinterpret this personnel change as a
slackening of this government’s commitment to the mission in
Afghanistan,” Gates said.  
 Petraeus will have a commander’s authority to assess the
military campaign and make or recommend adjustments as needed,
Gates said.  
 Mullen said he will travel tonight to  Afghanistan  and
Pakistan to meet with military and civilian leaders and spend
time with the troops.  
 “My message will be clear: Nothing changes about our
strategy, nothing changes about the mission, and nothing changes
about the resources we are dedicating or the commitment we are
making to defeat al-Qaeda and its extremist allies in the
region,” Mullen said. “We cannot lose the momentum we have.”  
 The U.S. plans to reassess the strategy in December and
train enough Afghan soldiers to allow a drawdown to begin in
July 2011.  
 “We’re not asking for victory by December or by July of
2011,” Gates said. “We’re not asking that Afghanistan be
stabilized 13 months from now.”  
 “What we are asking is that by December we have enough
evidence to demonstrate, if you will, the proof of concept, that
the approach that we’re taking is showing progress and that
we’re headed in the right direction,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 tcapaccio@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        