-- Obama, Medvedev Vow to Expand U.S.-Russia Commerce
-- Lyubov Pronina
-- 2010-06-24T22:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/obama-says-u-s-will-work-to-advance-plans-for-russia-s-entry-into-wto.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  said the U.S.
and Russia are committed to expanding commercial ties, and
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  said he wants to remove all
obstacles to trade and investment in his country.  
 Obama, calling Medvedev a “solid and reliable partner,”
said the U.S. will work to advance plans for Russia’s entry into
the World Trade Organization. In a joint declaration, the two
governments pledged to settle all outstanding issues on Russia’s
WTO ascension by the end of September.  
 “Twenty years after the end of the Cold War, the U.S.-
Russian relationship has to be about more than just security and
arms control,” Obama said at a joint White House news
conference with Medvedev. “It has to be about our shared
prosperity and what we can build together.”  
 Medvedev is seeking to expand and modernize Russia’s
economy to lessen its dependence on oil, gas and metals. Obama
wants to build a relationship with Russia that can withstand
strains over security disputes and broaden the markets for U.S.
companies.  
 In conjunction with Medvedev’s visit,  Boeing Co.  signed an
agreement to sell 50 of its 737 airliners to Russia. The order
from state holding company Russian Technologies Corp., which
controls six airlines, is valued at about $3.6 billion, based on
catalog prices for the 737-800. Russia separately agreed to lift
a five-month-old ban on U.S. chicken. The country spent about
$752 million on U.S. poultry last year.  
 Looking to Technology  
 Medvedev, who visited California’s Silicon Valley before
arriving in Washington, said he hopes that U.S. companies will
“actively partake” in an effort to establish a high-technology
center outside in the Moscow of Skolkovo.  
 “We’re interested in removing all the obstacles” blocking
trade with Russia, Medvedev said through a translator.  
 While in California, Medvedev toured companies such as
 Cisco Systems Inc . in San Jose and  Apple Inc . in Cupertino.
Medvedev also visited Twitter Inc., the microblogging service
with about 190 million visitors per month, and opened his own
account.  
 Obama pledged that the U.S. will act as a “partner” with
Russia to create a high-technology hub, as Russia simultaneously
promotes “transparency, accountability and rule of law” as it
applies to investments there.  
 U.S.-Russia Trade  
 At a U.S.-Russia Business Summit at the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce after the news conference, Obama and Medvedev sought to
reinforce their commitment to expanding commercial ties.  
 Obama, calling the Russian president “my friend and
partner,” said “there is more work to do” to increase trade
with Russia. He repeated that that he believes “Russia belongs
in the WTO” and that its membership in that group would benefit
the U.S. and other economies as well as that of Russia.  
 Medvedev said he made business contacts in Silicon Valley
that will help Russia progress in areas such as energy
development and computers. He told the business leaders that the
Russian government will create “the most favorable, most
protective conditions” for U.S. investment and cooperation.  
 U.S.  trade  in goods with Russia through the first four
months of this year rose 27.4 percent compared with the year-
earlier period, to $8.48 billion, according to the Commerce
Department.  
 “We are going to do everything that we can to get this
done as quickly as possible,” Obama said of the WTO
negotiations.  
 Pressure for Date  
 Maxim Medvedkov , Russia’s chief WTO negotiator, said his
country’s delegation pushed their U.S. counterparts for a firm
date to complete the process. “Both leaders realize that now is
the right time for quick progress on this issue,” he said.  
 Medvedev’s trade-focused U.S. trip follows months of
engagement by the two countries on security issues. The U.S. and
Russia agreed in March to cuts in their nuclear arsenals and
hammered out United Nations economic sanctions this month aimed
at pressuring Iran to scale back its nuclear development work.  
 “By any measure we have made significant progress and
achieved concrete results” on a range of issues, Obama said.  
 The U.S. president and his Russian counterpart will meet
with other leaders of Group of 20 nations at a summit in Canada
this weekend. The leaders of the world’s largest economies will
focus on balancing the need for government spending to encourage
growth against growing budget deficits.  
 Lunch Out  
 Before their news conference, Obama skipped a formal White
House luncheon and took Medvedev out for a hamburger in suburban
Washington.  
 Obama and Medvedev, accompanied by their attendant
entourages, loaded up in a motorcade and took a six-minute ride
to the Washington suburb of Arlington, Virginia, home to Ray’s
Hell Burger.  
 Having doffed their suit-coats, Obama and Medvedev, joined
by two translators, ate their hamburgers at a table in the
restaurant surrounded by the regular lunch crowd.  
 Obama had a cheddar cheese burger with onions, lettuce,
tomato and pickles, washed down with an iced tea. Medvedev
selected a cheddar cheese burger with onions, jalapeno peppers
and mushrooms. He ordered a Coca-Cola.  
 “If you like that tie, be careful,” Obama told Medvedev
as the two prepared to dig in.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Lyubov Pronina  in Washington at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Dmitry Medvedev, president of Russia, speas during joint press conference with U.S. President Barack Obama at the White House. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
