-- Buyout Firms Skirt FDIC Roadblocks by Purchasing Banks That Stayed Afloat
-- Jonathan Keehner
-- 2010-06-24T17:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/moelis-carlyle-target-flourishing-lenders-after-fdic-deters-dud-buyouts.html

          
          
             Buyout firms thwarted by regulators
from taking over failed banks have found a solution: Acquire
lenders that are still in business.  
 Moelis Capital Partners LLC, Thomas H. Lee Partners LP and
the Carlyle Group are among firms that agreed to buy stakes in
at least five  U.S. banks  since April. While most are small, with
assets of less than $1 billion, their status as banks means they
can buy more distressed lenders that can be merged and sold
later -- a tactic that made some private-equity investors
billionaires in the 1990s.  
 Buyout firms are changing targets in part because the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  is reluctant to let them control
collapsed banks on concern they’ll take on too much risk with
insured deposits. Even as banks failed this year at the  fastest
pace  since 1992, the agency awarded private investors just two
of the 83 lenders that it shuttered. The rest were sold to banks
that already had charters and track records.  
 “Private-equity firms are interested in open-bank deals
out of frustration,” said  Konrad Alt , a San Francisco-based
consultant at Promontory Financial Group who was a regulator at
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency from 1993 through
1996. “They are anxious about missing their opportunity.”  
 Bank deals offer a chance for private-equity firms that
must spend about $500 billion in unused capital or risk being
forced to return the funds to investors and forgo fees they
charge for managing and selling assets. The investments could
also defray costs to the FDIC insurance fund, making it less
likely the agency would have to increase its levy on banks or
draw on the U.S. Treasury Department’s $500 billion credit line.
In the past 13 months, the FDIC has levied a special assessment
and asked banks to prepay three years worth of fees.  
 Bonderman Erased  
 Buyout firms got a warning about the risks of taking stakes
in operating banks after  David Bonderman ’s TPG invested in
Washington Mutual Inc. in 2008, only to get wiped out, losing
$1.3 billion, five months later in the biggest banking failure
in U.S. history. WaMu was later acquired by JPMorgan Chase & Co.
After that, the buyout firms tried to buy failed lenders and
persuade the FDIC to share losses on loans, something the agency
has agreed to do in acquisitions by banks.  
 Sheila Bair ’s FDIC did allow a group including Carlyle and
the Blackstone Group LP to buy the failed  BankUnited Financial
Corp . last May and inject $900 million. The regulator deterred
more purchases by requiring private-equity firms to maintain
higher capital ratios and prohibiting sales of banks for at
least three years. The only private investor that navigated the
process this year was Bond Street Holdings LLC, which bought two
failed Florida banks in January.  
 Wilbur Ross  
 Pursuing the new strategy seems to have worked for
billionaire investor  Wilbur Ross . In April, Ross helped lead a
$200 million capital infusion for First Michigan Bancorp, a
single-branch lender based in Tory, Michigan. The bank used the
new funds to purchase CF Bancorp, building its branch network to
23 offices while adding more than $1 billion in deposits.  
 One advantage of funneling initial investments into open
banks is that quality managers remain while poor management
teams are removed,  Michael Krimminger , a special adviser for
policy at the FDIC, said in a June 11 interview.  
 “The FDIC doesn’t have to worry about whether an open bank
can hit the ground running,” Patricia McCoy , who teaches
banking and securities regulation at the University of
Connecticut Law School in Hartford.  
 Angelo Gordon  
 Among recent transactions, Angelo Gordon & Co., the New
York-based firm that raised $1.1 billion to invest in distressed
firms,  asked regulators  for permission to invest in Georgia’s
Hamilton State Bancshares Inc. Hamilton, with deposits of $227
million at six branches, plans to use a portion of the private-
equity money to buy “failed or distressed depository
institutions,” according to a statement.  
 At Patriot Financial Partners, a Philadelphia-based firm
scouting for open banks, the aim is “to find good management
teams in markets where they can grow,” managing partner  Kirk Wycoff  said in a June 11 interview.  
 “By providing banks with additional private capital, we
can help them resolve loans and take advantage of consolidation
opportunities,” said Wycoff, whose firm is backed by
Philadelphia real estate investor  Ira Lubert .  
 After bidding unsuccessfully on several lenders seized by
the FDIC, billionaire investor  Gerald J. Ford  decided in April
to invest $500 million in Pacific Capital Bancorp, a money-
losing lender with 48 branches based in Santa Barbara,
California.  
 Moelis  
 Moelis Capital Partners LLC, the private-equity arm of
 Kenneth Moelis ’s boutique investment bank, applied to buy a
stake in Opportunity Bank, a Texas lender with assets of $64
million, according to the Federal Reserve’s website.  
 In May, THL Partners agreed to pay $134.7 million for a
stake in Sterling Financial Corp., a Spokane, Washington-based
lender. Funds backed by Carlyle and Anchorage Advisors LLC
agreed last month to buy about 46 percent of Norfolk, Virginia-
based Hampton Roads.  
 In at least three cases, the shift in tactics requires
approval from the Treasury, which owns stakes in small banks
through its injection of U.S. bailout funds. Capital infusions
for Pacific Capital, Hampton Roads and Sterling are all
contingent on the government writing down its investment.  
 The operating-bank transactions mean “there is less
reliance on the loss-sharing arrangements from the FDIC,” said
Jay Langan, who leads Deloitte & Touche LLP’s financial services
merger & acquisition group.  
 Regulators are less likely to oppose investor windfalls as
long as government asset guarantees aren’t involved, said  Steven Kaplan , a finance professor at the University of Chicago’s Booth
School of Business. “It’s much less likely to be politically
perilous,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Keehner  in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Buyout firms thwarted by regulators from taking over failed banks are instead acquiring lenders that are still in business, Bloomberg's Su Keenan reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
