-- Regulator to Study BT, Vodafone Internet Access Amid Transparency Concerns
-- Jonathan Browning
-- 2010-06-24T15:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/ofcom-to-consider-how-bt-vodafone-manage-u-k-internet-access.html

          
          
             U.K. regulator Ofcom will study how
 BT Group Plc ,  Vodafone Group Plc  and other network operators
manage Internet traffic, as it demands increased transparency
from companies that provide Web access.  
 Internet providers could engage in anti-competitive
behavior and block content from other services, Ofcom said today
in a  statement  on its website. The regulator will seek
preliminary views from companies by September.  
 “At the heart of this discussion is how to ensure that
traffic management practices are transparent and how to ensure
that traffic management is not used for anti-competitive
discrimination,” Ofcom Chief Executive  Ed Richards  said.  
 Ofcom is following the U.S. Federal Communications
Commission which is considering adopting net-neutrality rules
that forbid companies from interfering with subscribers’ Web
traffic. Google Inc. is supporting Web access rules while AT&T
Inc. opposes them.  
 “We always anticipated that the debate would come across
the Atlantic,” Richards said in a meeting with reporters.
Still, the U.K. Internet market is “far more competitive” than
the U.S., he said today. “We won’t necessarily respond in the
same way as the FCC.”  
 Increasing Demands  
 U.K. wireless Internet providers are facing increasing
demands on their data networks, as consumers turn to smartphones
including Apple Inc.’s iPhone to browse the Internet and listen
to music.  Telefonica SA’s  O2 today  scrapped  its unlimited data
use policy on smartphones and imposed data caps on tariffs.  
 “This is an important topic and we look forward to
participating in any discussions,” said Vodafone U.K. Chief
Executive Officer Guy Laurence.  
 BT, the U.K.’s largest Internet service provider, said
today in a statement that Web providers should “be free to
strike commercial deals should content owners want a higher
quality of service delivery.”  
 In June last year the British Broadcasting Corp. said BT
was cutting the speed of Web connections in the evenings and
affecting the quality of its iPlayer service for some viewers.  
 While Ofcom could impose a minimum quality of service
standard on Internet providers and network operators, “it will
remain a reserve power” until the watchdog sees a pattern of
uncompetitive behavior, Alex Blowers, the regulator’s
international director, said today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        