-- Offshore Insurance to Shrink as Providers Flee BP-Like Risk
-- Natalie Obiko Pearson
-- 2010-06-24T04:25:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/offshore-oil-drilling-insurance-to-shrink-as-providers-flee-bp-like-risk.html

          
          
             BP Plc’s rig explosion that caused
the worst oil spill in U.S. history is set to curtail insurance
coverage for offshore drilling, forcing companies to self-insure
or exit deepwater fields.  
 BP’s leak in the Gulf of Mexico is “a market-changing
event,” said  Dieter Berg , senior executive manager marine at
 Munich Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer and among those exposed
to losses. “Buyers and sellers of coverage will be reevaluating
their appetites for offshore energy risk,” said Berg in a June
11 e-mail response to questions.  
 Proposals in Congress to raise U.S. liability costs to $10
billion to drill for oil in the Gulf could leave just three
companies -- BP,  Exxon Mobil Corp.  and Royal Dutch Shell Plc --
with the finances to self-insure, energy consultant PFC Energy
said June 15 in a memo to clients.  
 Insurance coverage available may decline as much as 30
percent,  John Lloyd , chief executive of Lloyd & Partners, said
in  written testimony  to the U.S. Senate on May 11. His company
is a unit of  Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group Plc , the U.K.’s
biggest publicly traded broker.  
 BP was drilling into its Macondo well in the Gulf when the
Deepwater Horizon rig exploded April 20, killing 11 people. The
well has since spewed tens of millions of gallons of crude into
the Gulf, forcing BP to set up a $20 billion fund to compensate
victims of the spill. The U.S. appealed yesterday a federal
judge’s June 22 order lifting a moratorium on deepwater oil
drilling imposed after the spill.  
 Three Times More  
 Insurers are reassessing how much they can afford to
underwrite as the incident exposes higher liabilities than
previously thought, said  Gregory Thomas , head of offshore
activities at  Assuranceforeningen Skuld , an Oslo-based
underwriter for deepwater contractors.  
 Insurers are charging 50 percent more for policies covering
oil rigs in deep waters since the BP leak, Moody’s Investors
Service said on June 3.  R.S. Sharma , chairman of India’s biggest
explorer  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. , said June 9 it would have cost
the state-owned company three times as much if it had renewed
its offshore policy after the disaster.  
 The BP oil spill will “significantly” push up the price
of insurance on offshore drilling, said Lloyd’s of London Chief
Executive Officer  Richard Ward  in an interview with Bloomberg
Television on June 22.  
 The BP disaster is likely to be the second-biggest energy
insurance loss based on current estimates, said the Insurance
Information Institute. The most expensive property loss for
energy insurers was a July 1988 explosion aboard the Piper Alpha
oil platform in the North Sea, which killed 167 people and cost
insurers $3.6 billion in 2009 dollars.  
 Self Insurance  
 Prohibitive premiums and the impracticality of insuring
one-time, catastrophic events could mean deepwater operators
will need to be self-insured, said  James Eck , vice president
senior credit officer at Moody’s in New York.  
 “What insurer is going to want to put out $1 billion worth
of deepwater insurance and only get paid $5 to $10 million after
this? They may as well write a few more hurricane-insurance
contracts,” Eck said.  
 BP,  Exxon Mobil  and  Shell , the world’s three largest non-
state oil companies, are at least partially self-insured through
wholly owned units, according to company filings. BP, which owns
Guernsey-based Jupiter Insurance, said in a March  regulatory
filing  that it was more economic for it to bear losses as they
arose rather than to buy external policies.  
 Insufficient Capacity  
 More companies may have to cover themselves if the U.S.
decides to raise the cap on liability for economic damages from
deepwater drilling to $10 billion from $75 million, said  Robert Hartwig , president of the Insurance Information Institute, a New
York-based trade group. There isn’t enough capacity to provide
that level of protection in the global energy insurance market,
which currently collects $3 billion in annual premiums, he said.  
 BP, as owner of the underwater lease, has primary liability
for damages caused by the pollution and damages by the leak from
its Gulf well. Lawsuits are pursuing a broadening circle of
contractors that provide equipment and drilling services.  
 “Our biggest fear at the moment is that there will be a
change in the contracting dynamic and operators suddenly start
to shift pollution and other liabilities over to the
contractor,” said Skuld’s Thomas. A contractor like  Transocean
Ltd. , owner of the rig that exploded in the Gulf in April,
wouldn’t have entered into an agreement with BP if it expected
to be responsible for pollution from the wells, he said.  
 Legal Action  
 Lawsuits filed as of June 16 name Transocean,  Cameron
International Corp. , which supplies blowout-prevention equipment,
and drilling services provider  Halliburton Energy Services Inc.   
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp.  has a 25 percent stake in BP’s
Macondo well, while Mitsui Oil & Exploration Co. owns 10 percent.  
 The real impact on energy insurance prices hasn’t emerged
yet because this year’s contract terms were set before the BP-
leased rig exploded, Hartwig said.  
 If the Atlantic hurricane season, which started on June 1
and is expected to be twice as active as normal, causes more
damage, premiums may rise as much as 100 percent by the end of
the year, Hartwig said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Lloyd's of London chief executive officer Richard Ward. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 22 (Bloomberg) -- Richard Ward, chief executive officer of Lloyd’s of London, talks about the insurance market's exposure to claims from the BP oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico and insurance rates for offshore drilling rigs in the region.
     Ward, speaking on Bloomberg Television's “InBusiness With Margaret Brennnan,” also discusses U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron's plan to impose a levy on banks and raise the sales tax in what the government called its biggest peacetime deficit cut. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Erroll Davis, a former board member at BP Plc, says he's not surprised he's named in lawsuits against the company following the worst oil spill in U.S. history. 
     Davis retired from the board on April 15, five days before the Deepwater Horizon rig exploded in the Gulf of Mexico. Bloomberg's Jon Erlichman reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       BP’s rig explosion is set to curtail insurance coverage  
                       
                         
                           Munich Re via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Dieter Berg, senior executive manager marine at Munich Re. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Dieter Berg, senior executive manager marine at Munich Re. Source: Munich Re via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
