-- Crude Oil Trades Below $77 on Renewed Concern Europe Debt Crisis to Spread
-- Yee Kai Pin
-- 2010-06-25T06:36:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/oil-is-little-changed-on-signs-u-s-economy-rebounding-as-equities-decline.html

          
          
             Crude oil traded below $77 a barrel
in New York, poised for the first weekly decline in three, as a
slump in equity markets renewed concerns that global economic
growth may slow down and limit fuel demand.  
 Oil rebounded yesterday from a two-day drop as U.S. durable
goods orders climbed in May and applications for jobless
benefits fell from a two-month high. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index is in the midst of its longest losing streak in seven
weeks. Asian stocks declined the most in three weeks today on
disappointing earnings forecasts by U.S. companies.  
 “The macro mood is still cautious,” said  Toby Hassall , a
commodity analyst at CWA Global Markets Pty in Sydney. “The
durable goods numbers offered some positives for the demand
outlook for oil. I doubt whether crude can rally without general
market sentiment improving.”  
 Crude for August delivery was at $76.20 a barrel in
electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, down 41
cents, at 2:33 p.m. Singapore time. Yesterday, the contract
gained 16 cents, or 0.2 percent, to settle at $76.51. Futures
are poised for a 1.3 percent drop this week.  
 Brent crude for August delivery was at $76.14 a barrel on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London, down 16 cents. Prices
are set to decline 2.7 percent this week, ending two weeks of
advance.  
 Equities Decline  
 The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index lost 1.6 percent to 115.25
today at 2:01 p.m. Tokyo time, the third decline in four days.
Yesterday, reports showing a decline in jobless claims in the
U.S. and rise in durable goods orders failed to stem the S&P
500’s decline.  U.S. equities  dropped as the rising cost to
protect Greece from default spurred speculation the pace of
Europe’s recovery would slow.  
 U.S. orders for  goods  meant to last three years, excluding
autos and aircraft, gained 0.9 percent in May, the third
increase in four months, according to the Commerce Department.
The number of Americans filing for  unemployment benefits 
declined 19,000 last week to 457,000, the Labor Department said.  
 The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
increase shipments as Asian refiners boost imports to meet
demand for driving fuels, according to tanker-tracker Oil
Movements.  
 OPEC, which pumps about 40 percent of the world’s crude,
will ship 23.73 million barrels a day in the four weeks to July
10, up 0.7 percent from the month ended June 12, the Halifax,
England-based consultant said in a report yesterday. The data
excludes Ecuador and Angola.  
 Oil Drilling  
 A U.S. federal judge denied the government’s request to
delay an order that allows deepwater oil drilling to resume. U.S.
District Judge  Martin Feldman  in New Orleans yesterday refused
to stay his June 22 order lifting a moratorium imposed by
President  Barack Obama  in reaction to the worst oil spill in U.S.
history. The government said it would appeal and asked Feldman
to put his order on hold.  
 Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News were split over whether
crude oil prices will rise or fall next week amid mixed economic
reports and ample stockpiles.  
 Sixteen of 47 analysts, or 34 percent, forecast crude will
advance through July 2. Sixteen more respondents predicted that
futures will decline. Fifteen said there will be little change.
Last week, 52 percent of analysts expected an increase.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
 Yee Kai Pin  in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        