-- Home-Loan Debt Offers Investment Value Amid `Worst Case' Pricing, TCW Says
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-06-24T17:59:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/home-loan-debt-offers-investment-value-amid-worst-case-pricing-tcw-says.html

          
          
             U.S.  mortgage bonds  without
government-backed guarantees offer some of the best investment
opportunities in the debt market, according to  Tad Rivelle ,
fixed-income head at TCW Group Inc.  
 “It doesn’t look like Armageddon is about to break out, and
yet it continues to be priced on assumptions that are at least
reflective of some very, very worst-case views about housing,”
Rivelle, whose Los Angeles-based asset manager oversees about
$115 billion, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  
 Prices in the $1.5 trillion  market  for so-called non-agency
mortgage securities have retreated over the last month after, in
some cases, almost doubling from record lows reached last year
amid the deepest U.S.  housing slump  and worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression. There are both “positives and
negatives” to investing in the sector, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analysts wrote in a June 18 report.  
 Among fans of the debt is  Jeffrey Gundlach , the top-ranked
bond manager that Rivelle replaced in December after TCW fired
him for allegedly exploring leaving the firm. Certain of the
securities “offer returns in the double digits even assuming
Depression-like fundamentals,” Gundlach wrote in an  article 
this month posted on Pensions & Investments’ website.  
 The bonds offer an “attractive unlevered yield profile to
stressed loss assumptions,” their supply is “dwindling” by
about $15 billion a month and “home prices appear to be
bottoming,” said New York-based JPMorgan analysts led by  John Sim  and  Edward Reardon .  
 ‘Shadow Inventory’  
 At the same time, Europe’s sovereign debt crisis is
reducing risk appetite, the cost of trading the debt is high and
a “looming shadow inventory” of more than 2 million of
property sales tied to loan defaults in each of the next three
years “makes a V-shaped  housing recovery  very unlikely,” they
said.  
 Annual returns on non-agency mortgage securities of 8
percent to 9 percent are “very doable,” TCW’s Rivelle said.
One positive sign is that the size of losses for each  subprime -
mortgage default has held steady for the last six months, he
said. Lenders have been losing 70 percent to 75 percent of loan
amounts, Rivelle said.  
 ’’The market expectation is still that maybe something on
the order of 90 percent of subprime loans are going to go
through some type of foreclosure process with loss severities of
upwards of 90 percent,’’ he said.  
 Investors should “stay up in credit in the sector,” with
debt such as prime-jumbo fixed-rate mortgage bonds from 2006 and
2007, whose typical prices range from 82 cents to 87 cents on
the dollar, for yields, after projected losses, of 7 percent to
8 percent, the JPMorgan analysts wrote.  
 Non-Agency Debt  
 Jumbo mortgages are larger than government-supported Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac can finance, currently from $417,000 in most
places to as much $729,750 in high-cost areas. Non-agency
securities lack guarantees from the two companies or federal
agency Ginnie Mae.  
 Elsewhere in the non-agency market, typical prices for the
most-senior securities backed by Alt-A  mortgages  with a few
years of fixed rates fell to 60 cents on the dollar last week,
from 63 cents a month earlier, according to Barclays Plc data.
The debt, which didn’t require borrowers to document their
income or live in properties they purchased, had rallied from a
record low of 35 cents in March 2009, after falling from about
100 cents in 2007.  
 Senior bonds backed by option adjustable-rate mortgages
typically fetched 55 cents on the dollar last week, also down
from about 100 cents in 2007 and from 59 cents a month ago, and
up from a low of 33 cents in March 2009, the data show.  
 Option ARMs allow borrowers to pay less than the interest
they owe by increasing their balances, resulting in potential
jumps in payments later on.  
 Offering Returns  
 Gundlach, who now runs Los Angeles-based asset manager
DoubleLine Capital LLC, said in his June 14  commentary  that he
was paring purchases of non-agency debt with buying of “long-
dated” Treasuries and slices of government-backed mortgage
bonds, which will offer strong returns if the economy struggles
and inflation stays low.  
 “This integrated trade solves the income problem while
steering a safe course between the shoals of credit and duration
risk,” Gundlach wrote. “Investors can feed themselves without
banking on dreams.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net , or
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        