-- Hong Kong Lawmakers Approve Leadership Plan; Adjourn Debate on Legislature
-- Mark Lee
-- 2010-06-24T23:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/hong-kong-lawmakers-resume-debate-on-government-s-plan-for-more-democracy.html

          
          
             Hong Kong’s  Legislative Council 
approved a proposal yesterday that will determine how the chief
executive is chosen in 2012. Lawmakers adjourned the debate on
how the body’s members are picked.  
 LegCo members voted 46-13 in favor of a motion that will
see the number of people who choose the chief executive
increased from 800 to 1,200. The members of the so-called
Election Committee are appointees sanctioned by China.  
 The debate on LegCo’s future composition was adjourned
until today, with a proposal by Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  in
favor of expanding its membership from 60 to 70 to be discussed.
The outcome of both votes will determine the pace of an
expansion of democracy in the territory.  
 Those who oppose the package say it does not provide a
clear roadmap to a one-man, one-vote system for Hong Kong.  
 “This package will lead Hong Kong to a false democracy,”
said  Tanya Chan , one of five members of the Civic Party who
oppose the amendments. “In Hong Kong’s freakish system, the
chief executive is elected by a small circle of people,” she
said before the vote.  
 The government’s proposals are likely to win the necessary
two-thirds majority to pass, as they have the support of most
members of the Democratic Party, whose amendments to the package
the government accepted June 21.  
 ‘Step Closer’  
 “Achieving universal suffrage is a common goal for both
the supporting and opposing parties, but the approach can be
different,” said Abraham Shek, a lawmaker representing the real
estate and construction industries who supports the proposals.
“The current plan is at least one step closer to this goal.”  
 The revised version proposes that the 10 new lawmakers on
the council are chosen by voters. Originally only five were to
be directly elected and five chosen by 405 directly elected
district councilors.  
 LegCo  now has 60 lawmakers, of whom 30 are chosen by
business groups and associations representing so-called
functional constituencies and 30 through direct election.  
 The pro-democracy Civic Party’s five lawmakers are calling
for universal suffrage in 2012, five years earlier than China
plans to let the public vote for the chief executive and eight
years before planned direct elections of all LegCo members. They
also seek the abolition of all functional-constituency seats,
which are given to groups such as bankers and businesses.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Frederik Balfour  in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        