-- Hong Kong's Exports Advanced for Seventh Month in May on Mainland Demand
-- Sophie Leung
-- 2010-06-24T08:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/hong-kong-s-exports-advanced-for-seventh-month-in-may-on-mainland-demand.html

          
          
             Hong Kong’s exports rose for a
seventh month in May, boosted by demand from mainland China amid
a global economic recovery.  
 Overseas sales  rose 24.4 percent to HK$254.2 billion ($32.7
billion) from a year earlier, after gaining 21.7 percent in
April, the government said today on its website. That was more
than the 23 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
of seven economists.  
 A recovery in exports across Asia, buoyed by rising intra-
regional trade, has boosted sales at companies including  Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.  and Samsung Electronics Co. At
the same time, Europe’s sovereign-debt woes have clouded the
outlook for global trade.  
 “The seemingly strong data reflect the improving demand
from the U.S. and Europe amid an economic recovery,”  Irina Fan ,
an economist at Hang Seng Bank Ltd. said in Hong Kong before the
report was released. “We see strong headwinds in the second
half, as the negative impacts of the European debt crisis are
yet to be felt.”  
 Fan forecasts the city’s exports will grow 13 percent this
year.  
 The increase in exports was partly due to a favorable year-
on-year comparison: the city’s shipments  slumped  14.5 percent in
May of 2009.  
 Exports to China, the main destination for goods shipped
through Hong Kong, rose 25.6 percent from a year earlier. Those
to the U.S. gained 24 percent and while sales to the U.K. slid
0.3 percent. Total exports to Asia grew 27.3 percent.  
 European Trade  
 Hong Kong relies on the euro zone for about a tenth of its
exports, while it counts on China for one-fifth of its overall
overseas sales, according to Fan.  
 “The adverse effect on global trade flows from a possibly
slower recovery in Europe due to the sovereign debt problem
there may begin to emerge in the latter part of this year,” an
unidentified government spokesman said in today’s release.  
 Growth in exports may slow from this month as the negative
impact from the euro crisis filters through the economy,  Daniel Poon , economist at the Hong Kong Trade Development Council, the
government-backed trade body, said today.  
 Improving exports, coupled with rising retail sales and
local demand, spurred an 8.2 percent expansion in Hong Kong’s
economy in the first quarter, the fastest pace in four years.  
 Imports  rose 29.7 percent in May from a year earlier,
leaving a trade deficit of HK$25.1 billion.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        