-- Longest Tennis Match, 163 Games So Far, Continues at Wimbledon
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-06-24T14:45:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/longest-tennis-match-59-59-in-fifth-set-to-enter-third-day-at-wimbledon.html

          
          
             John Isner  and  Nicolas Mahut  were in
the 100th game of their fifth set when the scoreboard went
blank. By the time darkness suspended their Wimbledon match for
the second straight night, they had played a record 163 games
over 10 hours.  
 They came back today to play some more.  
 The match resumed at 59-59 in the fifth set, where it was
suspended at 9:10 last night. A doctor had been stationed
courtside. The players had already combined for 193 aces in the
match.  
 “Nothing like this will ever happen again, ever,” Isner
said in a televised interview after the players left the court
last night to a standing ovation. “He’s serving fantastic, I’m
serving fantastic.”  
 The first-round match began two days ago. Isner, 25, an
American, won the first set. Mahut, 28, from France, won the
next two sets. Isner won the fourth set before play was
suspended.  
 The fifth set consumed more than seven hours yesterday,
longer than any previous match in Wimbledon history. It resumed
at 3:43 p.m. London time today on Court 18 with the score at 6-
4, 3-6, 6-7 (7-9), 7-6 (7-3), 59-59.  
 “Someone has to win,” Mahut said. “We’ll have to come
back tomorrow to see who will win.”  
 Also today, Britain’s  Andy Murray  play in front of  Queen Elizabeth II  on Centre Court and beat Finland’s  Jarkko Nieminen 
6-3, 6-4, 6-2. The Queen last visited Wimbledon in 1977. Second-
seeded Spaniard  Rafael Nadal  faces Robin Haase of the
Netherlands, while defending champion  Serena Williams  of the
U.S. plays  Anna Chakvetadze  of Russia on Court 2.  
 The longest tennis match had been a 6-hour, 33-minute
first-round contest at the 2004 French Open between Frenchmen
 Fabrice Santoro  and  Arnaud Clement .  
 As Isner and Mahut continued to hold serve in the fifth
set, the International Tennis Federation said, records tumbled.  
 118-Game Set  
 Isner and Mahut already have played the most games in a
match. Their 118-game fifth set is the longest in Grand Slam
history. Isner’s 98 aces and Mahut’s 95 have broken  Ivo Karlovic ’s previous record of 78 aces in one match, for Croatia
in a Davis Cup match against the Czech Republic in 2009.  
 “This is the greatest advertisement we’ve ever had for
this sport beyond the final of a Grand Slam,” three-time
Wimbledon champion  John McEnroe  told the BBC, which switched
from six-time champion  Roger Federer ’s match on Court 1 to live
coverage of the Isner-Mahut epic on Court 18.  
 As the fifth set unfolded, fellow players watched in the
locker rooms or stood on the balcony on top of the broadcasting
center adjacent to Court 18.  
 “I love this,” Federer said in a news conference after he
defeated Serbia’s Ilija Bozoljac in four sets. “I know they’re
maybe not loving this, but I guess this is unheard of in our
game.  
 ‘Little Bit Tired’  
 “It’s unfortunate these guys are going to be a little bit
tired tomorrow, and the next day, and the next week and the next
month,” Federer added. “This is absolutely amazing.”  
 The longest Wimbledon match had been a 6:09 men’s doubles
quarterfinal played over two days in 2006 with  Mark Knowles  of
the Bahamas and  Daniel Nestor  of Canada defeating  Simon Aspelin 
of Sweden and Todd Perry of Australia. The longest men’s singles
match at Wimbledon had been a 5:28 second-round encounter
between Greg Holmes and fellow American Todd Witsken in 1989.  
 “He is a champ,” Mahut said of Isner. “We are just
fighting like we never did before.”  
 Mahut took a painkiller from the tournament doctor at 31-
31. The Frenchman, ranked 148th on the ATP World Tour, overcame
two match points as he served to stay in the match at 32-33.
He’d earlier fended off a match point at 9-10.  
 “It’s amazing,” five-time women’s champion  Venus Williams 
said in a news conference after beating Russia’s  Ekaterina Makarova  in straight sets. “It’s a marathon. It’s longer than a
marathon.”  
 U.S. Open Tiebreaker  
 The U.S. Open is the only Grand Slam tournament in which a
final set is decided with a tiebreaker.  
 “Whoever wins today, I think both of them are winners,”
third-seeded  Novak Djokovic  said in a news conference after he
beat  Taylor Dent  of the U.S. in straight sets. “Maybe they
should agree on playing a tiebreak if it’s 50-all. That’s maybe
one of the solutions.”  
 The 23rd-seeded Isner took a bathroom break at 58-58 at
8:56 p.m. as the crowd shouted the names of both players. Mahut
overcame a fourth match point as he served at 58-59, hitting his
95th ace of the match. After that, he told the umpire he no
longer could see the ball.  
 With the crowd shouting “We want more, we want more,”
officials suspended play.  
 “I definitely think there should be doctors out there,”
McEnroe said. “It looks like Isner is about to fall over. I
would definitely vote for a tiebreak in the fifth set.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at Wimbledon through the London newsroom at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Nicolas Mahut of France has his raquet handed to him during his first round match against John Isner of USA on Day Three of the Wimbledon Lawn Tennis Championships. Photographer: Hamish Blair/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
