-- Ocado Plans to Raise $300 Million in IPO to Buy New Warehouse, Reduce Debt
-- Sarah Shannon
-- 2010-06-24T16:49:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/online-food-retailer-ocado-says-to-proceed-with-share-sale-london-listing.html

          
          
             Ocado Ltd., the money-losing U.K.
online grocer, said it will sell 200 million pounds ($300
million) of new stock in an initial public offering in London
to buy a second automated warehouse and reduce debt.  
 Existing shareholders will sell shares worth a “similar”
amount, the Hatfield, England-based company said today in a
statement. The stock will be sold to institutional investors,
employees and Ocado customers who have spent more than 300
pounds shopping with the retailer since Jan. 1.  
 Ocado, which also reported a first-half operating loss of
2.7 million pounds, is seeking to raise cash to fund growth.
The business, which operates from a distribution center
compared with larger rivals such as Tesco Plc which typically
pick goods from stores, has about 14 percent of a market worth
about 3 billion pounds a year, according to the statement.  
 “It’s a great proposition for customers, but we’re far
less convinced it’s a good business for investors,”  Clive Black , an analyst at Shore Capital, said by phone. “Its still
loss-making on an operating level and its going to take them
some time before they make considerable money.”  
 The investment in a second warehouse will also “weigh on
margins,” Black said.  
 Ocado will pay down 45 million pounds of debt, extend its
storage facilities and buy a second warehouse in the north of
the U.K. with the funds, according to the statement.  
 Overseas Expansion  
 “Ocado represents an exciting growth prospect with
significant expansion potential both in the U.K. and further
afield,” Chairman  Michael Grade  said in the statement.  
 Separately, the grocer said gross sales increased by 30
percent in the 24 weeks through May 16, while earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization almost tripled.  
 Ocado said it sees “significant opportunity” to expand
in non-food products such as baby, health, beauty and kitchen
products and to replicate its business model overseas.  
 In May, the online grocer signed a 10-year extension to a
deal with the Waitrose chain that allows it to sell the
supermarket’s goods and use the brand on its website and vans.  
 The grocer sells 20,000 different grocery products,
including 4,300 Waitrose own-label items.  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  JPMorgan Cazenove and UBS Ltd.
are acting as joint sponsors, coordinators and bookrunners.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        