-- Indian Monsoon Rains May Be More Than Predicted, Helping Rice, Sugar Crops
-- Pratik Parija
-- 2010-06-24T23:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/monsoon-rains-may-be-more-than-predicted-helping-output-of-crops-in-india.html

          
          
             India’s monsoon rains may be more
than previously forecast by the weather office, two government
officials said, helping output of rice, sugar and oilseeds after
a drought last year spurred record imports.  
 Rains in the June-September season may be 102 percent of
the 50-year average, the officials said yesterday. Rains would
be 98 percent of the long-term average, the  India Meteorological
Department  said on April 23.  
 India overtook China as the world’s biggest palm oil buyer
and became the largest sugar importer after the weakest  monsoon 
in more than three decades last year created shortages. Adequate
rains may help Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s efforts to tame
food inflation that climbed near to an 11-year high this year.  
 “We have seen high food inflation and that will be taken
care of by good monsoon rains,”  Utpal Choudhury , head of
research at Dalmia Securities Pvt., said by phone from Mumbai
yesterday. “This is also good for economic growth as
agriculture will be able to contribute to the economy the way it
should.”  
 The nation received 97.4 millimeters (3.83 inches) of rain
from June 1 to June 23, less than the 109.6 millimeter average
deemed normal for the period, the IMD said yesterday. Falls were
21 percent below normal last week.  
 B.P. Yadav, a director at the weather office, declined to
comment before the bureau announces a revision to its forecast
at a briefing at 4 p.m. in New Delhi today. The department,
which failed to predict last year’s drought, categorizes normal
rainfall to be between 96 percent and 104 percent of the long-
term average.  
 Economic Output  
 Monsoon rains are the main source of irrigation for farms,
which make up about a fifth of India’s economic output. A
deficit can reduce harvests in the world’s second-biggest
producer of rice, wheat and sugar, and pare incomes of 742
million people living in villages.  
 India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation accelerated to
10.16 percent in May, near the fastest pace in 17 months. The
drought last year damaged crops creating shortages that have
kept food  inflation  above 15 percent since November.  
 Prices of staple foods, including  wheat ,  lentils  and  sugar ,
have increased by between 10 percent and 33 percent in the past
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, adding pressure
on the government to sell more rice and wheat from state
reserves.  
 The government plans to sell 5 million tons of grain over
nine months starting July to damp prices, two government
officials involved in the planning said June 22. Warehouses held
35.16 million tons of wheat and 25.3 million tons of rice on
June 1, according to the food ministry.  
 Sugar Cane  
 Sugar prices in India, the biggest consumer, rose for the
first day in 12 yesterday on speculation a delay in the
monsoon’s advance to the state of Uttar Pradesh, the largest
cane-grower, may damage the crop. Immediate-delivery rates in
Mumbai, India’s largest wholesale market for the commodity,
increased 1.4 percent to 2,560 rupees ($55) per 100 kilograms.  
 “Although sugar cane is an irrigated crop, a normal
monsoon has a very positive correlation and helps in the
vegetative growth of the crop,” M.N. Rao, deputy director
general of the Indian Sugar Mills Association, said yesterday.  
 Sowing of monsoon crops has lagged behind last year’s
levels after two tropical cyclones slowed the progress of rain-
carrying winds, according to the farm ministry.  
 Rice was planted across 1.1 million hectares, compared with
1.17 million hectares a year ago, while cotton was sown in 1.48
million hectares, compared with 1.76 million hectares, the farm
ministry said June 18. Oilseeds were planted to 134,900
hectares, down from 271,000 hectares a year earlier.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net ;
 Pratik Parija  in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Indian farmers plant paddy cuttings in a field. Photographer: Narinder Nanu/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
