-- Oracle Profit Tops Estimates as Clients Resume Buying
-- Rochelle Garner
-- 2010-06-25T20:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/oracle-profit-beats-estimates-as-clients-resume-buying-software-programs.html

          
          
             Oracle Corp. , the world’s second-
largest software maker, advanced after quarterly results showed
the company’s acquisition of Sun Microsystems fueled a bigger
profit gain than analysts had predicted.  
 Fourth-quarter earnings excluding acquisition costs and
other expenses was 60 cents a share, Redwood City, California-
based Oracle said yesterday. That topped the 54-cent average of
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  has bought 67
companies since early 2005, including this years’s $7.3 billion
purchase of Sun Microsystems Inc. The acquisitions have
increased the types of programs Oracle can sell and added
customers who eventually buy support contracts, providing a
steady stream of revenue. Oracle has called that recurring
revenue stream its most profitable business.  
 “Oracle is minting money,” said  Mark Murphy , an analyst
at Piper Jaffray Cos. in San Francisco. “The lesson is Oracle
has a unique business model, with earnings that are both
resilient and powerful.” He rates the shares “overweight” and
doesn’t own any.  
 Sales of new software licenses, a key indicator of future
growth, rose 14 percent to $3.14 billion in the period ended May
31. That beat the $2.97 billion projection by  Sarah Friar , an
analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in San Francisco. Oracle
reported $1.23 billion in new hardware sales, and said Sun added
more than $400 million to earnings, excluding some costs.  
 ‘Amazing’ Margins  
 “Sun is now profitable, giving them some pretty amazing
operating margins,” Friar said. Oracle’s operating margin
excluding some items of 46 percent topped Friar’s estimate of
40.1 percent.  
 Oracle rose 44 cents to $22.66 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have declined 7.6
percent this year.  
 Fourth-quarter  net income  rose 25 percent to $2.36 billion,
or 46 cents a share, from $1.89 billion, or 38 cents, a year
earlier.  
 The company reports sales that include deferred revenue
from acquired companies, and doesn’t conform to generally
accepted accounting principles. On that basis,  sales  rose to
$9.63 billion. Analysts estimated $9.49 billion.  
 “Oracle executes extremely well, time and time again,”
 Andy Miedler , an analyst at Edward Jones, said in an interview
from St. Louis. “They set out a plan for Sun, are executing
very well against it and, in the meantime, their software
business is doing just fine.”  
 Rising Sales  
 For the  current quarter  ending Aug. 31, earnings excluding
some costs will be 35 cents to 37 cents a share, President  Safra Catz  said on a conference call yesterday after the results were
released. Analysts estimated 36 cents. Revenue will increase 44
percent to 48 percent from a year earlier, Catz said. That would
be about $7.29 billion to $7.49 billion. Analysts projected
$7.55 billion.  
 Sales of new  licenses  will rise 2 percent to 12 percent,
based on current foreign-exchange rates, Catz said.  
 Sun added more than $400 million to earnings excluding some
items, Catz said in the statement.  
 Oracle plans to more than double the size of its Sun sales
force, Ellison, 65, said on the call. “We are focused on
growing the Sun business and growing it rapidly,” he said.  
 Oracle competes against  SAP AG , the world’s biggest maker
of business-management software, handling tasks such as
accounting, inventory and human resources. With Sun, Oracle now
vies in the server market with  International Business Machines
Corp. , Hewlett-Packard Co. and Dell Inc.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rochelle Garner  in San Francisco at 
 rgarner4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Oracle Profit Tops Estimates, Boosted by Sun Purchase  
                       
                         
                           Kim White/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Larry Ellison, chief executive officer of Oracle Corp. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Larry Ellison, chief executive officer of Oracle Corp. Photographer: Kim White/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Betty Liu reports on the latest breaking news and top stories in today's Business Briefs. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Sasa Zorovic, analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, speaks about Oracle Corp.'s fourth-quarter earnings.
     Oracle, the world’s second-largest software maker, reported fourth-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates as customers resumed buying programs after the recession and renewed support contracts. Zorovic speaks with Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
