-- Morgan Stanley to Pay $102 Million to Settle Massachusetts Mortgage Suit
-- William McQuillen
-- 2010-06-24T21:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/morgan-stanley-settles-with-massachusetts-over-subprime-loans-allegations.html

          
          
             Morgan Stanley , the sixth-largest
U.S. bank by assets, agreed to pay $102 million to settle claims
by Massachusetts that the firm financed and securitized unfair
residential loans, state Attorney General  Martha Coakley  said.  
 Of the $102 million, $58 million will be earmarked for more
than 1,000 Massachusetts homeowners, with other funds set aside
for the Massachusetts Pension Fund for investment losses and the
commonwealth’s general fund, Coakley said today at a press
conference in Boston.  
 “This has become an all-too-familiar pattern in which the
deceptive practices of Wall Street devastated homeowners and
investors, and ultimately contributed to the collapse of our
economy,” Coakley said. “Our extensive investigation revealed
that Morgan Stanley not only backed loans for homeowners that
they should have known were destined to fail, they also caused
additional damage in the subprime marketplace.”  
 The bank is barred from making unfair loans and will be
required to make additional disclosures going forward, Coakley
said.  
 “ Morgan Stanley  is pleased to resolve this matter in a way
that will help many Massachusetts homeowners stay in their
homes,”  Jennifer Sala , a spokeswoman for the New York-based
bank, said in an e-mailed statement.  
 New Century  
 Coakley claimed Morgan Stanley provided billions of dollars
to subprime lender New Century, which used those funds to target
low-income borrowers and lure them into loans that consumers
predictably couldn’t afford to pay. The loans often were
unsustainable, though they were profitable for the lenders, she
said.  
 The settlement fund for Massachusetts homeowners will be
overseen by an independent trustee, according to settlement
papers filed in Massachusetts state court.  
 The bundling of the riskiest type of  mortgages  into
securities played a role in turning the U.S. housing slump into
a global recession as foreclosures deflated bond values and
toppled Wall Street firms including Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. The Massachusetts attorney general reached a $60 million
settlement last year with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.   
 Morgan Stanley  fell 77 cents, or 3 percent, to $24.26 in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        