-- Osborne More Extreme Than Thatcher on U.K. Cuts, Darling Says: Tom Keene
-- Tom Keene
-- 2010-06-24T15:47:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/osborne-more-extreme-than-thatcher-on-u-k-cuts-darling-says-tom-keene.html

          
          
             U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  is more extreme than Britain’s former Prime
Minister  Margaret Thatcher , according to  Alistair Darling , a
member of Parliament and former finance minister.  
 “What George Osborne is suggesting is going far further
than anything Margaret Thatcher suggested,” Darling said in a
radio interview today with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Surveillance.
“Margaret Thatcher, of course, had a reputation for being hard
and taking tough decisions, but she was also a political
realist.”  
 Osborne said on June 22 the government will impose a levy
on banks and raise the sales tax as it attempts to reduce the
Group of 20 nations’ biggest  budget deficit  and retain the AAA
credit rating without stifling an economic recovery. The cuts
reduce agency budgets excluding the National Health Service and
overseas aid by 25 percent over four years, or 30 billion pounds
($44.4 billion) a year, including 11 billion pounds from
welfare.  
 “One of the questions people will ask is, of all the
things that were announced this week, with a coalition
government with a Liberal Democrat partnership that is flaky,
whether they will ever manage to deliver on this,” Darling
said. “That, I think, is a real question.”  
 Markets’ Endorsement  
 U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  won the endorsement of
bond investors and Moody’s and Fitch Ratings for the biggest
budget squeeze in 50 years. Moody’s said the plan is
“supportive” of an Aaa rating and Fitch said the “ambitious”
plan ensured Britain would keep its AAA credit rating. The pound
and gilts rose for a third day.  
 “The view the new British government is taking is that if
you cut public expenditure, it’s axiomatic that the private
sector investment will automatically take its place,” Darling
said. “There’s no evidence to suggest that is the case.”  
 A majority of U.K. voters say Osborne made the right
decisions for the country in his budget this week, a YouGov Plc
poll for today’s Sun newspaper showed. Fifty-seven percent
approved of the June 22 budget, while 23 percent thought he made
the wrong decisions for Britain, the pollster said on its
website.  
 Darling dismissed comparisons to Greece, saying the U.K.’s
economy is bigger, more resilient and lacks Greece’s structural
problems. Greece’s average debt maturity is around three years,
compared with 14 years for the U.K.  
 “Frankly, to compare the U.K. and Greece is ludicrous,”
Darling said. “We do have more room for maneuver.”  
 European leaders must put aside politics and cooperate on a
plan to stimulate growth, rein in budgets and implement
structural reforms, according to Darling.  
 “If you have a single currency, then you’ve got to
cooperate -- you’ve got to live together,” he said. “You also
have to have a strategy to make sure that you have growth and
that has been what is, I’m afraid, lacking over the last few
months. I’m less optimistic now than I was even three months
ago.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        