-- OSC to Rule on Magna Share Conversion Today, Vice Chairman Turner Says
-- Joe Schneider
-- 2010-06-24T18:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/osc-to-rule-on-magna-share-conversion-today-vice-chairman-turner-says.html

          
          
             The Ontario Securities Commission,
Canada’s main stock market regulator, plans to rule today on a
challenge to  Magna International Inc. ’s proposal to end founder
 Frank Stronach’s  control of the company.  
 OSC Vice Chairman  James Turner , after a day-and-a-half
hearing, said a ruling on a request to stop a vote on Magna’s
share conversion plan would be issued by the end of the day. He
couldn’t say if that would be shortly after markets close at 4
p.m. in Toronto or by midnight.  
 The OSC sought approval from a three-member panel led by
Turner for a cease-trade order on Magna’s Class ‘B’ shares or a
ban on issuing new ‘A’ shares to prevent the company from
converting stock that gives Stronach control. The commission
argued shareholders weren’t given enough information to make an
informed decision on the plan. A vote is scheduled for June 28.  
 “We welcome a vote,” commission lawyer James Angus told
the panel at a hearing in Toronto today. “We want the voters to
be properly informed.”  
 Under the plan approved by Magna’s board, the Stronach
Trust would receive $300 million in cash and 9 million Class A
shares for the Class B stock that now gives the family about 66
percent of voting rights at the Aurora, Ontario-based company.
The deal values Stronach’s payout at C$965 million ($927
million) based on yesterday’s closing price in Toronto.  
 It’s an “unprecedented premium,” Angus said.  
 Stronach, 77, has controlled Magna since the late 1970s and
said that he provided an “entrepreneurial framework” for the
company’s growth.  
 “Canada needs more Frank factor, not less,” Stronach’s
lawyer  Peter Howard  told the panel.  
 No Negotiation  
 Magna’s board wasn’t in a position to negotiate with
Stronach because he was under no obligation to sell his stock,
Howard said. Lead director Michael Harris, the former Premier of
Ontario, unsuccessfully attempted to convince Stronach to accept
less, he said.  
 “There’s not a scintilla of evidence of improper conduct
by Mr. Stronach,” Howard said.  
 Shareholders like the deal because companies with dual-
class structures tend to be valued less than comparable
companies with a single-share structure, Magna’s lawyer Larry
Lowenstein said.  
 Lowenstein said as of close of business yesterday 74
percent of shareholders have voted and 77 percent of them favor
the deal, assuring a majority support for the conversion.  
 Magna rose C$2.20, or 2.8 percent, to C$74.46 at 1:40 p.m.
trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange. The shares have soared 40
percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Toronto at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        