-- Most Asian Stocks Rise; Australian Mining Stocks Advance
-- Anna Kitanaka
-- 2010-06-24T10:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/most-asian-stocks-rise-mining-shares-gain-on-australian-leadership-change.html

          
          
             Most  Asian stocks  fell, led by
exporters and oil producers, as a slump in U.S. home sales and
crude prices overshadowed gains by mining companies on
speculation Australia will wind back a tax on resources profits.  
 Toyota Motor Corp. , which gets about 28 percent of its
sales from North America, sank 0.8 percent after new home sales
in the U.S. fell to a record low in May.  Cnooc Ltd. , China’s
biggest offshore oil explorer, lost 1.9 percent after oil prices
dropped.  BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s No. 1 mining company,
gained 1.3 percent in Sydney after  Julia Gillard , who replaced
 Kevin Rudd  as Australia’s prime minister today, said she’s open
to negotiations over the tax.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  was little changed at 117.07 at
7:21 p.m. in Tokyo. About five stocks fell for every four that
rose in the gauge, which dropped 1.8 percent in the previous two
days. The index had risen for eight straight days to June 21,
the longest winning streak since July 2009.  
 “It’s difficult to conclude that we are losing momentum,
but there’s not a lot of strong data that supports a continuous
strong momentum in economic growth in the U.S.,” said  Tim Leung ,
who helps manage about $1.5 billion at IG Investment Ltd. in
Hong Kong. Australia’s new leader “will be less onerous to the
mining companies than the proposal announced earlier. The market
is expecting a change.”  
 Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index lost 0.6 percent, and China’s
Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.1 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index slipped 0.1 percent, reversing an earlier increase of
0.7 percent. Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  added 0.1 percent
while South Korea’s Kospi index rose 0.8 percent.  
 European Debt  
 Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  lost 0.6 percent.
The gauge declined 0.3 percent after a government report showed
sales of new homes in the U.S. sank in May and the Federal
Reserve signaled Europe’s debt may harm American growth.  
 A U.S. Commerce Department report showed purchases of new
homes fell in May to a record low as a tax credit expired. Sales
collapsed 33 percent to an annual pace of 300,000 last month
from April, less than the median estimate of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News and the fewest in data going back to 1963.  
 Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest automaker, slumped
0.8 percent to 3,195 yen.  Sony Corp. , which makes about 70
percent of its revenue abroad, dropped 1.1 percent to 2,493 yen.
Nissan Motor Co., which counts North America as its biggest
market, lost 1.2 percent to 658 yen.  
 Japanese exporters also fell as a stronger yen threatened
to reduce the value of overseas sales when repatriated. The
dollar weakened to as low as 89.52 yen today from 90.42 at
yesterday’s close of stock trading in Tokyo.  
 Home Sales Data  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  has climbed 7.5 percent from a
10-month low on May 25 as concerns eased that Chinese measures
to curb property prices and Europe’s debt crisis will hurt
global growth. Yesterday’s new home sales data came a day after
a National Association of Realtors report showed purchases of
existing houses in the U.S. unexpectedly fell.  
 “Investors had perceived the situation in Europe to have
stabilized, and that is the reason why the market had been
strong,” said IG Investment’s Leung. “But when people look
further ahead, there are still difficulties. There seem to be a
lot of mixed signals coming from the U.S.”  
 Shares in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index trade at 14.6 times
estimated earnings, compared with about 22 times at the start of
this year. A gauge of energy shares in the MSCI measure sank 0.8
percent, the most of 10 industry groups as oil declined for a
third straight day. Crude oil for August delivery fell as much
as 1.1 percent to $75.55 a barrel in New York.  
 Energy, Mining Companies  
 Cnooc lost 1.9 percent to HK$13.52, the fourth-biggest drag
on the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index .  PetroChina Co. , the country’s
largest oil producer, retreated 1.1 percent to HK$9.00. Petronas
Dagangan Bhd., the retail arm of Malaysia’s state oil company,
slumped 5.5 percent to 9.24 ringgit.  
 Mining stocks rose after Gillard was sworn in as
Australia’s first female prime minister. The Welsh-born premier
was elected unopposed after Rudd withdrew from a leadership
ballot by the ruling Labor party today.  
 Support for Rudd began to slide in polls in April after he
shelved his carbon-trading proposal, a key campaign pledge when
he won office in November 2007. Then he proposed a 40 percent
tax on the “super profits” of resource projects in Australia,
the world’s biggest shipper of coal and iron ore, and refused to
back down even after members of his own party objected.  
 BHP rose 1.3 percent to A$39.65 and was the  MSCI Asia
Pacific Index ’s biggest support.  Rio Tinto Group , the world’s
third-biggest mining company, advanced 1.7 percent to A$71.73.
Macarthur Coal Ltd., the world’s biggest exporter of pulverized
coal, jumped 6.4 percent to A$12.34.  
 Mining Investments  
 Mitsubishi Corp., which has mining investments in Australia,
rose 0.8 percent to 2,006 yen in Tokyo.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. ,
which paid $3 billion for Australia’s Felix Resources Ltd. last
year, climbed 0.9 percent to HK$17.34 in Hong Kong.  
 Gillard’s appointment is positive for the resources
industry in Australia, the world’s biggest shipper of coal and
iron ore,  Keith de Lacy , Macarthur’s chairman said by phone.
Gillard said in Canberra today that “the government door is
open” to negotiate on the proposed resources tax with mining
companies.  
 “It’s a very dramatic development,” said  Stephen Halmarick , Sydney-based head of investment-markets research at
Colonial First State Global Asset Management, which manages
about $135 billion. “The markets will be looking to her to move
quite quickly to stabilize the debate and come to a
resolution.”  
 Uncertain Markets  
 Also in Australia, Macquarie Group Ltd., the nation’s
biggest investment bank, declined 4.7 percent to A$40.65 after
saying increasingly uncertain markets are weighing on some parts
of its business.  
 It’s “too early to evaluate implications” for earnings in
the year ending March 2011, the bank said in a presentation by
Chief Financial Officer  Greg Ward  that was filed to the stock
exchange. Macquarie was the second-biggest drag on Australia’s
 S&P/ASX 200 Index .  
 A gauge of health-care stocks in the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index climbed 1 percent, the most of the broader measure’s
industry groups.  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. , Asia’s largest
drugmaker, increased 0.5 percent to 3,840 yen after saying it
plans to set up a South Korean subsidiary in August to market
key drugs. The unit will be located in Seoul, Takeda said in a
statement.  
 Eisai Co.  climbed 1.2 percent to 3,015 yen after the
company’s Pariet medicine, a so-called proton pump inhibitor
that helps relieve symptoms of stomach ulcers, was approved for
expanded use in Japan.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        