-- Low Interest Rates, Budget Cuts Help Buoy Recovery, IMF's Blanchard Says
-- Sandrine Rastello
-- 2010-06-24T23:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/low-interest-rates-budget-cuts-help-buoy-recovery-imf-s-blanchard-says.html

          
          
             Advanced economies can maintain
growth and cut deficits if they set credible medium-term
targets, implement plans gradually and avoid raising lending
rates too quickly, two International Monetary Fund officials
said.  
 The recommendations are part of “ Ten Commandments ”
outlined by  Olivier Blanchard , the institution’s chief economist
and  Carlo Cottarelli , who heads the fiscal affairs department,
two days before a meeting of heads of state of Group of 20
countries. Narrowing deficits is set to be a key topic at the
Toronto summit after Europe’s debt crisis threatened to spread
to the rest of the world last month, forcing authorities to
craft a 750-billion euros ($924 billion) rescue mechanism.  
 “Fiscal adjustment is key to high private investment and
long-term growth” and “at least in some countries, to avoiding
disorderly financial market conditions,” they wrote on the IMF
website. “But too much adjustment could also hamper growth, and
this is not a trivial risk.”  
 They called for a plan with “a visible anchor” which can
be the pace of adjustment or a fiscal target within four to five
years. While stressing there is “no simple one-size-fits-all
rule,” the economists wrote that improving the budget balance,
excluding debt payments, by 1 percentage point per year during
the next four to five years, could help stabilize debt by the
middle of this decade.  
 Coordinated Policy  
 Unless investors require it, there’s no need to front-load
fiscal adjustment, they said. Countries should aim at reducing
debt, not just stabilizing it, and should change their pensions
and health-care systems to curb spending, which would give more
credibility to their policies than immediate deficit reduction
plans, they said.  
 Monetary policy should also be coordinated with the fiscal
plans, and “calls for an early monetary policy tightening in
advanced economies are misplaced,” they said.  
 They also stressed that advanced economies need to get a
boost from emerging ones, which must seek to shift their source
of growth from external to internal demand.  
 “The recent decisions taken by China are, in this respect,
an important and welcome step,” Blanchard and Cottarelli wrote.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        