-- Pacific Rubiales to Invest Up to $2 Billion as It Boosts Colombia Output
-- Heather Walsh
-- 2010-06-24T22:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/pacific-rubiales-to-invest-up-to-2-billion-as-it-boosts-colombia-output.html

          
          
             Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp. , the
operator of Colombia’s largest oil field, plans to invest as
much as $2 billion in 2011 and 2012 as it boosts production.  
 Pacific Rubiales will spend $800 million to $1 billion in
each of the next two years to increase output by more than one-
third in Colombia, South America’s third-largest crude producer,
company President  Jose Francisco Arata  said today in an
interview in Cartagena.  
 Since taking office in 2002, Colombian President  Alvaro Uribe  has lured new investment in oil and mining by weakening
guerrilla forces and reducing attacks on infrastructure. Pacific
Rubiales, South Korea’s SK Energy Co. and Brazil’s OGX Petroleo
& Gas Participacoes SA were among companies that won new oil
contracts in a government auction this week.  
 “It’s an expansion of our exploration portfolio,” Arata
said today about the blocks that it won. The Toronto-based
company aims to start producing from some of the fields within
“two to three years,” he said.  
 Two of the six blocks awarded to the company are in the
Llanos basin in eastern Colombia, where existing oil
infrastructure would make it easier to tap any reserves
uncovered during exploration, he said. The Rubiales field, which
is 60 percent owned by state-run Ecopetrol SA, is in the same
region. Pacific Rubiales operates the field with a 40 percent
stake.  
 Production at Pacific Rubiales will rise to about 130,000
barrels daily in 2012 from about 95,000 barrels this year, Arata
said. The company will invest $1.2 billion this year as it
expands Rubiales. Oil will remain at $75-$80 a barrel, he said.  
 Venezuela is the top producer of oil in South America,
followed by Brazil.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Walsh  in Cartagena at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        