-- Pakistani Court Sentences U.S. Citizens to 10 Years Prison for Terrorism
-- Khurrum Anis
-- 2010-06-24T11:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/pakistan-court-sentences-5-u-s-citizens-to-jail-for-terrorism-offenses.html

          
          
             A Pakistani judge sentenced five
Muslim Americans from the Washington area to 10 years in prison
for terrorism offenses in a case that has heightened U.S. fears
of homegrown militant violence.  
 Attorneys for both sides vowed to appeal the decision from
the closed trial in an anti-terrorism court in Sargodha, 180
kilometers (110 miles) south of Islamabad, the capital.
Prosecutor Nadeem Akram Cheema said the five friends from
northern Virginia, aged 19 to 25 when police arrested them in
December in the Punjab province city of Sargodha, should be
imprisoned for life.  
 Defense Attorney Hassan Katchela expressed surprise at the
decision, “since they were cleared in three of the five
charges.” Judge Anwar Nazir exonerated the Americans on the
most serious charges, involving conspiracy to commit terrorism
in the U.S. and in Afghanistan, Katchela said in a telephone
interview from Sargodha.  
 “They were convicted of funding proscribed organizations
and conspiracy to commit crime and terrorism” in Pakistan, said
Katchela. “We will appeal in the high court within seven days,
where we hope they will be declared free.”  
 The case is at least the fourth since February in which
Muslim U.S. citizens or long-time residents were convicted of
seeking or getting terrorism training from al-Qaeda or the
Taliban insurgent movement in Pakistan.  
 Times Square  
 Faisal Shahzad, a Pakistani-American living in Connecticut
said June 21 the Taliban trained him in bomb-making as he
pleaded guilty in New York to charges arising from his attempt
to explode an SUV loaded with explosives in Times Square.  
 The Obama administration said in its National Security
Strategy, issued on May 27, that “several recent incidences of
violent extremists in the United States who are committed to
fighting here and abroad have underscored the threat to the
United States and our interests posed by individuals radicalized
at home.”  
 The Virginia men deny they were in Pakistan to meet
militants, saying they had come for a wedding. They have been
identified as Ramy Zamzam of Egyptian descent, Waqar Khan and
Umar Farooq of Pakistani origin, and Aman Hassan Yemer and Ahmed
Minni of Ethiopian descent, Associated Press reported.  
 From Sargodha, the men “were preparing to go and get
training for jihad in North Waziristan,” a district on the
Afghan border, Punjab’s law minister,  Rana Sanaullah , has said.
They had maps of North Waziristan and its main town, Miramshah,
a stronghold of the Taliban movement, officials said.  
 Waziristan War  
 North Waziristan is controlled by Taliban factions and
hosts militant groups that are part of al-Qaeda, say residents
and U.S. officials. It serves as a key center of the militants’
war against U.S.-led forces in Afghanistan.  
 Pakistan’s army has been attacking other Taliban factions
in other border regions with Afghanistan as part of a year-long
escalation in the war between the government and Islamic
militants.  
 In February, Afghan immigrant Najibullah Zazi, 25, pleaded
guilty to conspiracy charges in connection with an al-Qaeda plot
to bomb the New York subway system. Like Shahzad, he grew up in
Pakistan.  
 On March 18, Chicago resident David Coleman Headley entered
a guilty plea to charges arising from terrorism training and
spying missions that he said helped Pakistani militants linked
to al-Qaeda plan terrorist attacks abroad. These included the
November 2008 assault on Mumbai, India, that killed 164 people,
including six Americans.  
 The five men from Virginia disappeared from home in
November last year,  Nihad Awad , national executive director of
the Council on American-Islamic Relations, said Dec. 9 in
Washington. One left behind an 11-minute “farewell” video that
“misused” verses from the Koran in a way that showed a
“profound misunderstanding,” Awad said.  
 The U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation aided in the
investigation into the five men, Sanaullah said last year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Farhan Sharif  in Karachi at 
 fsharif2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        