-- Palm Oil Futures Gain on Rebound in Soybean Prices, Bad Weather Concerns
-- Claire Leow
-- 2010-06-24T11:20:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/palm-oil-futures-gain-on-rebound-in-soybean-prices-bad-weather-concerns.html

          
          
             Palm oil gained for a second day,
driven by a rebound in soybean prices and concern that oilseed
harvests from Canada and China may be hurt by bad weather,
potentially tightening global supplies.  
 Palm oil for September delivery climbed as much as 0.4
percent to 2,393 ringgit ($744) a metric ton, and ended at 2,390
ringgit on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange.  
 November-delivery soybeans advanced as much as 0.5 percent
to $9.2775 a bushel in Chicago. Soybean futures may rally to
$9.80 a bushel by the end of July on rising Chinese demand,
Phillip Futures said today.  
 Palm oil is the world’s cheapest edible oil, and the rival
oil crushed from soybeans is a direct substitute for use in food
and biofuels. Together the two oils comprise more than 60
percent of the world’s edible oils.  
 Short-term concerns over the global oilseed crop amid
adverse weather conditions may support palm oil prices, said  Ben Santoso , a plantation analyst at DBS Vickers Securities
(Singapore) Pte.  
 Soybean planting in Brazil, the second-largest producer,
may be delayed by dry weather caused by La Nina,  Paulo Etchichury , head of Sao Paulo-based forecaster Somar
Meteorologia, said today.  
 La Nina, caused by cooling temperatures in the Pacific
Ocean, can trigger below-average rains during soybean planting
between September and November in the South of Brazil, which
accounts for 37 percent of production.  
 Smaller Harvest  
 The rapeseed output in China, the largest user, may be as
much as 15 percent smaller than estimated, which will support
soybean oil,  Jerrod Kitt , an analyst at commodity researcher and
brokerage Linn Group, said yesterday. Output may be 1.5 million
to 2 million tons smaller than the 13 million tons forecast by
the U.S. Department of Agriculture on June 10, Kitt said.  
 The reduced output in China may help push rapeseed
stockpiles below the 2007-2008 level, as Canada was forecast to
lose 2 million tons of production in the 2010-2011 season on wet
weather, Kitt said. Canada accounts for 60 percent of global
rapeseed shipments.  
 The “significant deterioration” of prospects for the
Canadian canola crop is bullish for rapeseed and canola, and
helpful for soybean oil, industry publication OilWorld said in
its June 18 weekly report. It may also help soybean oil, the
industry publication said.  
 ‘Voracious Appetite’  
 Soybean futures may rally by July as “China’s voracious
appetite for foreign soybeans is anticipated to increase as
imports of foreign soybean are more economical compared with
domestic supplies,” Phillip Futures said. “A stronger yuan is
likely to widen the gap in profitability between crushing
foreign and domestic crop.”  
 Soybeans for November delivery in Chicago traded at $9.26 a
bushel at 6:06 p.m. Singapore time. The most-active contract has
fallen 12 percent this year. Soybeans in Dalian for January
delivery closed at 3,859 yuan ($568) a ton, or $15.45 a bushel.  
 The oilseed may rally to $10 a bushel within two weeks,
 Scott Briggs , agricultural commodities strategist at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said on June 22.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Claire Leow  in Singapore at 
 cleow@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        