-- PDVSA to Seek Seizure of 11 Helmerich Oil Rigs Involved in Pay Dispute
-- David Wethe
-- 2010-06-24T20:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/pdvsa-to-seek-seizure-of-11-helmerich-oil-rigs-involved-in-pay-dispute.html

          
          
             Petroleos de Venezuela SA , the state
oil company, is seeking nationalization of 11 oil rigs owned by
 Helmerich & Payne Inc. , which it accuses of trying to slow crude
production in the South American country.  
 The government-owned oil company will seek  National
Assembly  approval to seize the rigs in Anzoategui state after a
payment battle with Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Helmerich & Payne,
 Rafael Ramirez , oil minister and president of Petroleos de
Venezuela, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  
 “There are rig owners that have refused to discuss payment
rates for services and preferred to hide the rigs for a year,”
Ramirez said. “It’s the specific case of Helmerich & Payne. We
won’t allow them to sabotage our operations.”  
 Helmerich & Payne idled its drilling rigs last year after
PDVSA, as the state oil company is known, fell behind on
payments to service providers amid a drop in oil output and
revenue. Ramirez, who said in January that debts to suppliers
had “vanished,” oversaw nationalization of oil ventures with
 Exxon Mobil Corp.  and ConocoPhillips and seizures of assets from
more than 60 service companies.  
 Helmerich & Payne said in a statement that it hadn’t
received notice as of this morning from PDVSA or government
officials regarding nationalization of its rigs. The company
said it has offered to sell rig assets to PDVSA, which has
expressed interest in buying the equipment.  
 Driller ‘Surprised’  
 “We are surprised by yesterday’s announcement only because
we have been in ongoing efforts in a good faith attempt to
accommodate a win-win resolution, including a willingness to
sell rigs,” Chief Executive Officer  Hans Helmerich  said in the
statement.  
 Helmerich & Payne fell $1.38, or 3.4 percent, to $39.03 as
of the 4 p.m. close of New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The  shares  have 12 buy ratings from analysts, 11 holds
and 1 sell.  
 A takeover of assets without providing compensation would
further discourage foreign investment in Venezuela, said  Mark Toner , acting deputy spokesman at the U.S. State Department.  
 “This is the latest in such an instance where international
investors, their companies, are being nationalized by the
government of Venezuela,” Toner said. “It doesn’t speak well or
bode well for the investment climate.”  
 Unpaid Bills  
 Helmerich & Payne , which has operated in Venezuela for 52
years, said it’s owed about $43 million. It had assets with a
book value of about $72 million in the country as of March 31.  
 The driller planned to keep the rigs idle until debts were
paid and accumulated bolivars were converted into U.S. dollars,
Executive Vice President  John Lindsay  told investors on an April
29 conference call.  
 Venezuela is the largest oil producer in South America and
a founding member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
 David Wethe  in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        