-- Peabody Energy Sees Global Coal Demand at the Beginning of a `Super Cycle'
-- Noah Buhayar
-- 2010-06-24T14:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/peabody-energy-sees-global-coal-demand-at-the-beginning-of-a-super-cycle-.html

          
          
             Global demand for coal is at the
beginning of a multiyear growth period, driven by consumption
from China and India and the recovering U.S. economy,  Peabody
Energy Corp.  said today.  
 “We’re in the early stages of a 30-year super cycle in
global coal markets,” Chief Executive Officer  Gregory Boyce 
said at the IHS McCloskey Group Coal USA Conference in New York.  
 Peabody, the biggest U.S. coal producer, operates eight
mines in Australia’s Queensland and New South Wales states and
is targeting the Asia Pacific region for growth to feed power
stations and steel mills in China.  
 China, the world’s largest user of coal, increased imports
of the fuel by 17 percent from a year earlier to 11 million
metric tons, according to data released June 20 by the General
Administration of Customs.  
 Peabody fell 38 cents, or 1 percent, to $42.45 at 9:54 a.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
fallen 6 percent this year.  
 Global steel demand will surge 50 percent by 2020 leading
to more consumption of metallurgical coal, used to make steel,
Boyce said.  
 JFE Holdings Inc., Japan’s second-largest steelmaker, and
two rivals agreed to a $225-a-metric-ton-coking-coal contract
for the July-to-September quarter, 13 percent higher than the
$200 a ton for the three months started April 1, three people
with knowledge of the agreements said. The contract is
considered an industry benchmark.  
 Asian Shipments  
 Peabody is shipping coal mined from Wyoming’s Powder River
Basin to China, Korea and Chile, Boyce said. The region holds
the largest and least expensive U.S. reserves of coal.  
 “We’re also seeing rising export potential not only from
the East Coast, but from the Illinois Basin” and the Powder
River Basin, he said.  
 Boyce said the company is working to develop a port on the
U.S. West Coast to supply the Pacific markets. He declined to
disclose a time frame as to when it will be built.  
 “The real goal here is to see if we can’t get large
volumes of Powder River Basin coal to Asia,” Boyce said.  
 The U.S., which holds the world’s largest reserves of coal,
relies on the fuel for about half of its power generation,
compared with about 20 percent for natural gas.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mario Parker  in New York at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net ;
 Noah Buhayar  at   nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        