-- Petraeus Gives Afghan Mission Trusted Name at Critical Phase
-- Tony Capaccio
-- 2010-06-24T19:16:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/petraeus-gives-afghan-mission-trusted-name-in-washington-at-critical-phase.html

          
          
             General  David Petraeus  commands a
respect in Congress and on foreign battlefields that may
enhance the U.S. and NATO mission in a decisive phase against
Taliban insurgents in Afghanistan.  
 President  Barack Obama ’s announcement yesterday that he’s
replacing General  Stanley McChrystal  for remarks disparaging
administration officials thrusts Petraeus back into the role of
leading a major combat effort to reverse enemy gains. Petraeus,
who wrote the Army’s book on counterinsurgency, took charge in
Iraq in 2007 as the Bush administration started a troop surge
that stabilized a nation on the verge of civil war.  
 “From the standpoint of continuity and consistency of
approach and direction, I think this is a very good choice,”
said retired Lieutenant General James Dubik, who’s been friends
with Petraeus for more than 25 years and served with him in
Iraq. “It lowers the risk of any significant loss of
momentum.”  
 The president said the shift in command “is a change in
personnel, but it is not a change in policy.”  
 Petraeus, 57, was named the top U.S. commander for the
Middle East and Central Asia in 2008. He supervised both wars
and coordinated with civilian leaders and partners in the
 Afghanistan  coalition led by the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization.  
 Obama first brought up the idea of replacing McChrystal
with Petraeus during a June 22 afternoon meeting, Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates  told reporters today.  
 No Notice  
 “It immediately to me answered a lot of the concerns I
had that we minimize the impact of any change on the conduct of
the war,” Gates said. Petraeus had “virtually no advance
notice” he’d be reassigned, Gates said.  
 “It would have been easy to remain a Central Command
commander and to rest on his well-deserved record of success in
Iraq and yet, when the commander-in-chief asked, he once again
saluted and accepted this new challenge,” Gates said. Petraeus
would hit the ground running and not take months to get
familiar with the Afghan strategy and tactics, he said.  
 “My greatest concern was that somebody who came new to
this fight who did not have a personal relationship with key
Afghan figures, who did not have the kind of relationships with
the Pakistani military leadership, would take months to get up
to speed,” he said.  
 Decisive Moment  
 The U.S. is completing the deployment of 30,000 additional
troops Obama authorized in December in an effort to halt the
Taliban resurgence that has increased deaths of U.S. and allied
soldiers to the  fastest pace  in the war. With a four-month-old
offensive stalled in the southern province of Helmand, the U.S.
has delayed what it described as a decisive drive in the
neighboring Taliban heartland of Kandahar.  
 The U.S. plans to reassess the strategy in December and
train enough Afghan soldiers and police to allow a drawdown to
begin in July 2011. That pullout date has drawn criticism from
Republicans.  
 The “policy is confusing,” said Senator  Lindsey Graham 
of South Carolina. “It undercuts the war effort. It empowers
our enemies. It confuses our friends.”  
 Said Senator  John McCain  of Arizona, “If you tell the
enemy when you are leaving” it “has an adverse effect on your
ability to succeed.”  
 Both said they support Petraeus.  
 Senate Armed Services Committee  Chairman  Carl Levin , who
also backs Petraeus, scheduled a confirmation hearing for
Tuesday and said he hoped the committee would vote that same
day to forward the nomination to the full Senate. The Michigan
Democrat said Petraeus assured him only the “pace” of troop
withdrawal, not the start of such movement, will be determined
by conditions in Afghanistan.  
 Afghan Respect  
 Afghan President  Hamid Karzai , who had urged Obama to keep
McChrystal, “respects” Obama’s decision, spokesman Waheed
Omar said in a telephone interview.  
 Karzai’s chief rival in last year’s fraud-tainted
presidential election, former Foreign Minister  Abdullah Abdullah , said Petraeus is well-placed to build a broader
relationship with Afghan leaders that could enhance public
support in the country for the U.S. strategy.  
 “This change may be for the best, because General
McChrystal was relying very heavily” on a close relationship
with Karzai, who has lost political support over corruption
within his government, he said.  
 Links to Pakistan  
 Petraeus has worked to build a relationship with
Pakistan’s army, the key counterpart for U.S. forces in the
region. He visited Pakistan at least five times in the past 17
months, and has hosted Pakistan’s overall commander, General
 Ashfaq Pervez Kayani , at the Central Command headquarters.  
 Articulate and media-friendly, Petraeus is the best-known
commander to emerge from the Iraq War. His 101st Airborne
Division joined the initial invasion and was then assigned to
pacify Mosul, Iraq’s third-largest city.  
 That’s where he drew attention for his emphasis on
economic development and political outreach.  
 Fifteen months after being sent to Iraq, Petraeus was
reassigned to a training center at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas,
amid reports that the Pentagon, then run by Defense Secretary
 Donald Rumsfeld , was unhappy with his high profile.  
 He returned to Iraq in early 2007 to implement the surge
of troops that President  George W. Bush  ordered.  
 Petraeus became the head of U.S. Central Command in 2008,
when Admiral  William Fallon  resigned after an Esquire magazine
article depicted him as being at odds with Bush over Iran.  
 ‘Right Man’  
 Obama’s choice of Petraeus won support from allies. The
general is the “right man to take command” of troops in
Afghanistan, said a spokesman for U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron .  
 The British deputy commander of NATO’s International
Security Assistance Force, Lieutenant General Nick Parker, will
lead the coalition until Petraeus is confirmed. Lieutenant
General  David Rodriguez , who runs day-to-day operations in
Afghanistan, will act as U.S. commander until Petraeus takes
over.  
 NATO-led forces and their Afghan partners have suffered
setbacks in trying to secure the town of Marjah in the southern
province of Helmand after a February offensive, and McChrystal
slowed the pace of the Kandahar advance to allow more time for
civilian efforts to secure law and order and local support.  
 Petraeus last week sought to reassure members of Congress
that the campaign in Afghanistan is making progress.  
 He was pressed by the Senate Armed Services Committee over
how many troops might be withdrawn in July 2011, how quickly
that would proceed and how significant the scheduled December
review of the strategy will be.  
 He told the committee the planned drawdown date was useful
for sending a message to the Afghan government that it must
step up preparations to take over.  
 “It is important that July 2011 be seen for what it is, a
date when a process begins based on conditions,” Petraeus
said. He pledged a “responsible drawdown” of U.S. forces.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 tcapaccio@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Gen. David Petraeus listens to President Barack Obama announce him as the successor of U.S. commander in Afghanistan. Photographer: Nicholas Kamm/AFP/Getty Images)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Jamie Metzl, executive vice president of the Asia Society, talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman about Army General Stanley McChrystal's resignation.
     President Barack Obama stripped McChrystal of his command of U.S. troops in Afghanistan for making disparaging remarks about administration officials just over a year after he was entrusted with salvaging the war effort. Obama named General David Petraeus, commander of American forces in the Middle East and Central Asia and the architect of U.S. counterinsurgency strategy, to replace him. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
