-- Philadelphia Newspapers Seeks to End Bankruptcy as Buyer, Union Negotiate
-- Steven Church
-- 2010-06-24T21:52:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/philadelphia-newspapers-seeks-to-end-bankruptcy-as-buyer-union-negotiate.html

          
          
             Philadelphia Newspapers LLC will
seek bankruptcy court approval for its reorganization plan while
the group buying its Philadelphia Inquirer and Daily News
dailies for $139 million continues contract talks with unions.  
 A group including the hedge fund Angelo Gordon & Co. and a
unit of  Credit Suisse Group AG  won an auction for the newspapers
in April. The buyers are still negotiating with the unions,  Fred Hodara , an attorney for the group, said yesterday in an e-mail.  
 Hodara and Philadelphia Newspapers lawyer  Lawrence G.
McMichael  said they expect the newspaper company to win the
needed court approvals to exit bankruptcy within a few weeks
after a hearing that began today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Philadelphia. The hearing continues tomorrow morning and may go
into next week.  
 “The buyers will close,” McMichael said in an interview.
“But I think they will need time to get everything done.”  
 After hearing testimony from two company officials today,
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Stephen Raslavich  asked the newspaper
company for more information about how libel lawsuits will be
handled when the company exits bankruptcy.  
 The company is trying to dispose of about 20 lawsuits
through the reorganization plan, most of which were filed
against the newspaper for libel, Philadelphia Newspapers General
Counsel Scott Baker said in an interview after the hearing.  
 McMichael said he would bring more details about which of
the lawsuits will be covered by insurance when court start again
in the morning.  
 Funds Object  
 Raslavich said the company had “the better part of the
argument,” when it came to objections filed by union pension
funds. Those funds objected to a proposal to release the buyers
from liability for a possible $150 million deficit in the
company’s pension.  
 The company’s largest union, the Newspaper Guild, will meet
with the buyers for another round of negotiations next month,
Guild Executive Director Bill Ross said in an interview. The two
sides are negotiating the size of concessions the union will
make under a new contract, he said.  
 After approval, the buyers would have until Aug. 31 to
complete the purchase and take control of the Inquirer and Daily
News, McMichael said. The new holding company for the newspapers
and the other assets being sold will be named Philadelphia Media
Network Inc., according to court papers.  
 Ad Sales Drop  
 Philadelphia Newspapers filed for bankruptcy in February
2009, more than two years after Chief Executive Officer  Brian Tierney  led a buyout of the publisher. The filing, which listed
assets and debt of as much as $500 million each, cited a decline
in advertising revenue related to “drastically lower” car,
real estate and retail sales throughout the U.S.  
 When the buyers won April’s auction, they said they
expected to complete the deal by late June. McMichael said
yesterday that the sale probably won’t be final until August.  
 “It would be a mess” if the buyers back out, he said.  
 Philadelphia Newspapers has been in touch with the second-
place bidder, which is still interested in the company,
McMichael said. That bid, of $130 million, was from a group led
by billionaire  Ronald Perelman ’s MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings
Inc. and includes  Bruce Toll , vice chairman of Horsham,
Pennsylvania-based homebuilder  Toll Brothers Inc.   
 Union Funds  
 Union funds, including the Teamsters Pension Trust Fund of
Philadelphia & Vicinity, objected to the plan June 18 in part
because the buyers will escape liability for any pension losses,
the funds said in court papers.  
 The Teamsters Pension claimed the lenders plan to cancel
union contracts, including pension obligations, without
negotiating with employees.  
 The sale can be completed before the buyers come to terms
with the unions, McMichael said. After the current owners bought
the company for $515 million in 2006, it took them more than six
months to negotiate new union contracts, McMichael said.  
 Susan Murray, a lawyer for the Philadelphia chapter of the
Newspaper Guild, didn’t return calls yesterday seeking comment.  
 Philadelphia Newspapers is one of at least seven
metropolitan newspaper publishers to file for bankruptcy since
2008. That group includes the  owner  of the Los Angeles Times and
Chicago Tribune and the publishers of the Orange County Register
and the Minneapolis Star Tribune.  
 The Inquirer, founded in 1829, is the third-oldest daily
newspaper in the U.S. and has won at least 18 Pulitzer Prizes.
The Daily News was started in 1925. The two newspapers have had
a common owner since 1969, when they were bought by Knight
Newspapers Inc.  
 The case is In re Philadelphia Newspapers LLC, 09-11204,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania
(Philadelphia).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        