-- Philip Morris Wins Reversal of $100 Million Verdict Over Smoker's Death
-- Bob Van Voris
-- 2010-06-24T19:53:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/philip-morris-wins-reversal-of-100-million-verdict-over-smoker-s-death.html

          
          
             Philip Morris USA  won a ruling from
the  Oregon Supreme Court  blocking a $100 million punitive damage
verdict awarded to the husband of Michelle Schwarz, an Oregon
woman who died of lung cancer in 1999.  
 The court today ordered a new trial on punitive damages,
ruling that the jury that awarded the money received faulty
instructions from the trial judge. Today’s ruling upholds the
decision of a state appeals court.  
 The Oregon Supreme Court found that the trial court should
have told jurors that they weren’t permitted to award punitive
damages to punish Philip Morris for harm caused to anyone other
than Schwarz.  
 “The trial court did, in giving the uniform jury
instruction, permit the jury to consider evidence of harm to
nonparties in assessing punitive damages,” Justice  Martha Lee Walters  wrote on behalf of the court.  
 Maureen Leonard, who argued the appeal for Schwarz’s
estate, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message seeking
comment on the ruling.  
 Philip Morris, a unit of Richmond, Virginia-based  Altria
Group Inc. , is the biggest U.S. cigarette maker.  
 “We believe the Oregon Supreme Court’s ruling properly
recognized the constitutional limits in assessing punitive
damages,” said  Murray Garnick , Altria senior vice president and
associate general counsel.  
 Pack-a-Day Smoker  
 Schwarz began smoking in 1964 at the age of 18. Evidence at
the trial showed that she was unsuccessful in many attempts to
quit. In 1976, she began smoking Philip Morris’s low-tar Merit
brand and continued smoking a pack a day. She died in 1999 at
age 53 of a brain tumor resulting from metastatic lung cancer.  
 Schwarz’s husband sued in 2000 and the case was tried two
years later. Lawyers introduced evidence that shortly before her
death, Schwarz attended her son’s wedding, on oxygen and in a
wheelchair. At the wedding she begged her mother for a
cigarette.  
 Jurors awarded $169,000 in compensatory damages and $150
million in punitive damages, which the trial judge reduced to
$100 million.  
 Philip Morris knew that smokers of low-tar, low-nicotine
cigarettes tend to “compensate,” by smoking more cigarettes or
inhaling more deeply, to achieve a desired intake of nicotine,
Walters wrote in her opinion.  
 “A primary purpose of defendant’s decision to bring low-
tar cigarettes to market was to give smokers what one tobacco
executive labeled a ‘crutch,’ that is, a product that enabled
smokers to rationalize continued indulgence of a habit that they
otherwise would consider to be deadly,” Walters wrote.  
 The case is  Estate of Michelle Schwarz v. Philip Morris
Inc., S053644, Oregon Supreme Court.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        