-- Reliance Industries Buys Eagle Ford Stake From Pioneer for $1.3 Billion
-- Rakteem Katakey
-- 2010-06-24T20:17:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/pioneer-sells-stake-in-eagle-ford-to-reliance-industries-for-1-15-billion.html

          
          
             Reliance Industries Ltd. , India’s
largest company by market value, agreed to its second U.S.
shale-gas acquisition in three months, committing $1.3 billion
for a stake in a venture led by  Pioneer Natural Resources Co.   
 The company controlled by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani  will
pay $263 million up front and fund $1.1 billion of drilling
costs for Pioneer and Newpek LLC, its partner in the Eagle Ford
shale formation of south Texas, according to a statement today
by Mumbai-based Reliance. The deal will give Reliance a 41
percent working interest in the venture’s acreage, Irving,
Texas-based Pioneer said in a separate statement.  
 Ambani agreed in April to pay  Atlas Energy Inc.  $1.7
billion for shale assets in Pennsylvania, joining  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc , BP Plc and  Exxon Mobil Corp.  in buying unconventional
natural-gas reserves in the U.S. Reliance may have paid more
than double the rate BP paid for similar assets in the Eagle
Ford area, according to Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd.  
 “Our big concern is that Reliance is coming in fairly late
in the game,” said  Neil Beveridge , an analyst at Bernstein in
Hong Kong. “Prices are considerably higher now, and Reliance is
paying a premium.”  
 Reliance is paying $11,100 per acre, compared with $4,000
paid by BP in a March deal, according to calculations by
Beveridge. The price is less than the $14,167 an acre paid for
Reliance’s venture with Atlas in the Marcellus Shale formation.  
 Reliance  fell 0.6 percent to 1,052.05 rupees in Mumbai.
Pioneer dropped $2.22, or 3.3 percent, to $64.97 as of the 4
p.m. close of New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 Drilling Accelerates  
 Pioneer is accelerating drilling in Eagle Ford, as
previously announced, Chief Executive Officer  Scott Sheffield 
told investors today on a conference call. The venture will
drill at least 20 wells this year, 70 wells in 2011, 120 in 2012
and 140 wells in 2013, he said.  
 The drilling plan will allow  Pioneer  to meet its lease
commitments by the end of 2012, Sheffield said. With the
Reliance investment, Pioneer will produce surplus cash as it
drills out its leases, he said.  
 Pioneer’s share of  production  from the formation will be
equivalent to about 5,000 barrels of oil a day by year’s end,
Sheffield said.  
 Ambani told shareholders last week that Reliance can double
its enterprise value, or market capitalization plus net debt and
preferred equity, to $160 billion within a decade.  
 Shale Push  
 “ Reliance  aspires to build a significant position in the
shale-gas business,” Ambani said in a June 18 presentation.
“We will enhance efficiencies across the chain by drawing on
our experience in drilling and project management. We will
commit capital alongside proven low-cost operators to accelerate
the development of this resource.”  
 Unconventional gas is the industry term to describe the
fuel trapped in shale formations, coal beds and sandstone rock.
 BP Plc  Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  described shale gas
as a “game changer” after it allowed the U.S. to overtake
Russia in gas production last year.  
 Shale-gas deposits weren’t considered worth tapping before
Houston billionaire  George P. Mitchell  pioneered new extraction
techniques in the 1990s.  
 Shell, Europe’s largest energy producer, said May 28 it
agreed to buy most of closely held East Resources Inc. for $4.7
billion, expanding its holdings of U.S. shale-gas deposits and
giving it acreage in the Marcellus and Eagle Ford formations.  
 XTO Takeover  
 Exxon Mobil agreed in December to acquire  XTO Energy Inc. 
for about $30 billion in December.  Total SA  accelerated its
expansion into gas with the $2.25 billion purchase of U.S.
assets from  Chesapeake Energy Corp.  in January.  
 Barclays Capital Inc. and UBS Securities LLC advised
Reliance on the Pioneer transaction. The company, operator of
India’s largest gas field, had cash and cash equivalents of
218.7 billion rupees ($4.7 billion) as of March 31.  
 Reliance will use its balance sheet to fund new ventures,
including nuclear and solar energy, Ambani said on June 18. The
company said it’s getting 118,000 net acres in the Eagle Ford
venture.  
 Pioneer needed cash to meet its lease obligations,
Sheffield told investors April 13, when he announced the  company 
was seeking a development partner.  
 “We’ve got to drill about 400 wells over the next three to
four years to hold most of our acreage,” Sheffield said at the
time. “The objective of this joint venture is, of course, to
accelerate drilling.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        