-- Potato Chips Help Drive Up Salt Intake for Most American Adults
-- Arielle Fridson
-- 2010-06-24T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/potato-chips-help-drive-up-salt-intake-for-most-american-adults-cdc-says.html

          
          
             Nine of every 10 adults in the U.S.
consume too much sodium from eating pizza, potato chips and
other foods made with salt, raising the annual death toll from
heart attacks and strokes, according to a federal report.  
 A study covering 3,922 adults found that just 9.6 percent
held their daily sodium intake below the maximum amount
specified by federal guidelines, researchers said today in the
Morbidity & Mortality Weekly  Report . New cases of heart disease
could be reduced by as many as 120,000 a year, and stroke by as
many as 66,000, if all adults reduced sodium consumption by
about half a teaspoon a day, according to the report.  
 “Sodium has become so pervasive in our food supply that
it’s difficult for the vast majority of Americans to stay within
recommended limits,” said Janelle Peralez Gunn, the lead author
of the article and a public-health analyst at the Division for
Heart Disease and Stroke Prevention, part of the U.S. Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention.  
 Public-health professionals, food processors, retailers and
doctors all should take measures to get people to consume less
sodium, Gunn said in a statement, adding to growing public
discussion of dietary salt. In April, the  Institute of Medicine ,
the National Academy of Science’s health arm, urged a “new,
coordinated approach” to reduce sodium in food.  
 Kraft Effort  
 Also in April, 16 companies, including Northfield,
 Illinois-based Kraft Foods Inc. , said they would reduce salt by
25 percent in some products by 2014 in a program created by
cities and medical groups.  
 An estimated 77 percent of salt intake comes from processed
and restaurant food, such as bread and grains, including
products that may not taste salty, according to today’s report
from the CDC.  
 The U.S.-recommended maximum quantity for an adult’s daily
sodium consumption is 1,500 to 2,300 milligrams a day, depending
on a person’s age, race or health. One teaspoon of salt equals
about 2,300 milligrams. Seventy percent of the people in the
study had a recommended maximum intake of 1,500 milligrams a
day. For those people, intake averaged 3,366 milligrams,
according to the report.  
 Sodium raises blood pressure, a major risk factor for heart
attacks and strokes, according to the Atlanta-based CDC. The
Institute of Medicine estimated that reducing sodium intake
could prevent 100,000 deaths in the U.S. every year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arielle Fridson  in New York at 
 afridson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        