-- Premier Wen Makes His Second Visit to Flood-Hit South as Deaths Exceed 200
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-24T11:29:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/premier-wen-makes-his-second-visit-to-flood-hit-south-as-deaths-exceed-200.html

          
          
             Premier  Wen Jiabao  returned to
China’s flood-hit south today for his second visit in less than
a week, as the death toll from flooding exceeded 200 people with
more rain forecast for the region.  
 Flooding intensified today in the provinces of  Jiangxi  and
 Hunan  as more downpours hit the region, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported. The storms have affected almost 30 million
people in 10 provinces in southern China, with at least 2.4
million displaced so far.  
 China’s  weather administration  called on local governments
to be prepared for flooding and landslides as Hunan said the
province’s largest river may reach a record high tomorrow. More
rain is forecast for southern China during the next three days,
where storms and flooding have already killed at least 211
people and left 119 missing.  
 Wen today visited soldiers assisting local residents in
Jiangxi, telling them they must be prepared for the worst and to
not fear death during the course of rescue efforts, China
Central Television reported.  
 He Dingli and his wife, both almost 70 years old, barely
escaped being washed away by flood waters in Hunan’s Anren
Township, the Changsha Evening News, based in the province,
reported. The couple were awoken by rescuers and were just 100
meters away from their home when they watched it swept away by
flood waters, the newspaper reported.  
 Hunan and Jiangxi, the worst hit provinces, are home to
more than 100 million people. The per capita gross domestic
products of the two mostly rural provinces is less than a third
that of  Beijing  and  Shanghai .  
 Long March  
 The two provinces are also closely linked to the history of
China’s Communist Party. Former Chinese leader  Mao Zedong , a
Hunan native, and the Communist Party’s Red Army, began its so-
called Long March in 1934 from bases in Jiangxi to northwestern
China to escape attacks by the then ruling Nationalist Party.  
 The Fuhe river in Jiangxi breached its banks twice this
month, forcing the evacuation of about 100,000 residents, Xinhua
said.  
 Shi Jinxiang, a villager from Luozhen Township, was trapped
on the roof of her home for a day and a half with her parents
and child after the river breached its banks, Xinhua said. The
family was without food for more than 10 hours before being
rescued, the news agency said.  
 Regions in Jiangxi near the Fuhe river were forecast to
receive 60 millimeters to 80 millimeters of rain today, local
news website Jiangxi News reported.  
 The flooding is the most severe to hit Jiangxi in 50 years,
with more than 7.9 million people in the province affected, the
Jiangnan Metropolis News newspaper, based in the province,
reported yesterday.  
 Xiang River  
 Water levels on Hunan’s Xiang river may reach a record high
of 42 meters tomorrow, Xinhua reported today, citing local water
resources departments.  
 Hunan was forecast to have the “widest and strongest”
rain today, Rednet, a news website based in the province,  said ,
citing the Hunan Provincial Meteorological Bureau. A total of
8.3 million people in Hunan have been affected by flooding, the
website reported.  
 President  Hu Jintao  and Premier Wen this week called for
all-out efforts to save people trapped by the flooding. Wen
earlier visited Guangxi province, which borders Hunan, on June
19 and 20, to inspect relief efforts for flooding.  
 The State Council, China’s cabinet, held a meeting today to
discuss rescue and relief efforts, the central government said
on its website. More than 16,000 soldiers and civilians have
been dispatched to help with rescue and relief efforts, Xinhua
reported.  
 The storms have forced the evacuation of 2.4 million people
as of 4 p.m. yesterday, the  Ministry of Civil Affairs  said
yesterday on its website. Direct economic losses are estimated
at 43.3 billion yuan ($6.35 billion), including the collapse of
215,000 homes and the complete destruction of crops on 277,800
hectares of land, the ministry said.  
 For Related News and Information:
Stories on natural disasters in China: TNI CHINA NAT BN <GO>
Top Chinese Stories: TOP CHINA <GO>
For the global weather platform: WETR <GO>  
          
          


  


        