-- Rangers Bankruptcy Judge Delays Sale Hearing Until July 22 for Mediation
-- David McLaughlin
-- 2010-06-25T01:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/rangers-bankruptcy-judge-delays-sale-hearing-until-july-22-for-mediation.html

          
          
             The Texas Rangers’ proposed sale was
postponed after a judge ordered further mediation that he said
could resolve opposition from lenders that provided $525 million
in loans to the club’s owner.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  D. Michael Lynn  in Fort Worth, Texas,
canceled a July 9 hearing to consider approving the sale and
required continued mediation involving the Rangers, Major League
Baseball and the lenders, according to a court order today.  
 “The court understands that additional time for mediation
could possibly lead to the proposal of a consensual plan in this
case,” Lynn said in the order.  
 Lynn set a July 22 hearing to consider approving the team’s
bankruptcy plan and sale. Texas Rangers Baseball Partners filed
for bankruptcy in May to complete a sale to a group led by
attorney  Chuck Greenberg  and team President and Hall of Fame
pitcher  Nolan Ryan .  
 Lenders, led by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , oppose the
$575 million deal. They say the team passed on a higher offer
from Houston businessman  Jim Crane  and have called for the
Rangers to run a competitive sale process. The lenders provided
$525 million in loans to  Tom Hicks ’s HSG Sports Group LLC, which
owns the team.  
 ‘Level Playing Field’  
 “We are pleased with Judge Lynn’s order, which provides
for mediation on a level playing field and ensures additional
time for a considered resolution of the case,” said Adam
McGill, a spokesman for a lender group that includes Monarch
Alternative Capital.  
 Mark Semer , a spokesman for the Rangers, declined to
comment.  Stephen Shimshak , a lawyer for Major League Baseball,
couldn’t be reached for comment.  
 Rangers Baseball Express, the group headed by Greenberg and
Ryan, asked the judge to reconsider his order because they want
the sale to be completed before baseball’s July 31 deadline to
acquire players from other teams in order to boost their chances
of qualifying for the playoffs.  
 “Given the opportunity, Rangers Baseball Express intends
to act aggressively at the 2010 trade deadline,” the group said
in a court filing today. “If the sale is not completed in
advance of the trade deadline, however, this opportunity will be
missed, resulting in a potential diminution of financial
performance and goodwill.”  
 July Mediation  
 Parties in the bankruptcy case have participated in
mediation before U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Russell Nelms . He will
continue the mediation on July 16 in Dallas, according to the
court order.  
 Lynn’s order postponing the sale hearing comes after the
team and the lenders announced an agreement this week regarding
a chief restructuring officer who will oversee the Rangers’
equity owners and decide whether they will support the proposed
sale. Lynn has ruled that their support is needed for the sale
to go forward.  
 Also today, the lender group sought a court order that
would force the team and Major League Baseball to provide the
lenders with documents about bids for the team and its planned
sale. The lenders said the team and MLB “are refusing without
justification” to produce documents as part of discovery in the
bankruptcy case.  
 Lynn said in his order that discovery is suspended until
mediation ends.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners,
10-43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas
(Fort Worth).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        