-- Treasury Two-Year Yields Rise From Lowest Level Since November
-- Daniel Kruger
-- 2010-06-24T20:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/treasuries-rise-two-year-yield-at-lowest-since-november-on-fed-outlook.html

          
          
             Treasury two-year yields advanced
from the lowest level since November after the U.S. government
completed three note sales totaling $108 billion.  
 The yields were earlier within four basis points of a
 record low  set in December 2008 after the central bank
reiterated yesterday its commitment to an “extended period” of
interest rates at virtually zero. Treasuries pared gains after
the government sold $30 billion in seven-year securities.  
 “The market was a little overextended, and people were
looking to take some chips off the table,” said  Jason Rogan ,
director of U.S. government trading in New York at Guggenheim
Partners LLC, a brokerage for institutional investors.  
 The two-year note’s yield dropped one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 0.67 percent at 4:03 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 0.625
percent security maturing in June 2012 increased 1/32, or 31
cents per $1,000 face amount, to 99 29/32.  
 The yield earlier touched 0.6329 percent, the lowest level
since Nov. 27, when it fell to 0.6083 percent. It reached the
record low of 0.6044 percent on Dec. 17, 2008. The median
forecast of 51 economists in a Bloomberg News survey is for the
yield to be 1.32 percent at year-end.  
 Yields  on 10-year notes were little changed at 3.13 percent
after earlier falling six basis points to 3.06 percent, the
lowest level since May 25.  
 “I suspect some profit taking with the auctions behind
us,” said  Carl Lantz , head of interest-rate strategy in New
York at Credit Suisse Group AG, one of 18 primary dealers that
are obligated to bid at U.S. debt offerings.  
 Seven-Year Sale  
 Today’s auction of seven-year notes produced a yield of
2.575 percent, compared with the average forecast of 2.586
percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 5 of the primary dealers.
The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total
bids with the amount of securities offered, was 3.01, the
biggest since the notes were reintroduced in February 2009.  
 Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 51 percent of the notes, compared with
an average of 53.3 percent for the past 10 sales.  
 “The auction went well,” said  Gary Pollack , who helps
oversee $12 billion as head of fixed-income trading at Deutsche
Bank AG’s private wealth management unit in New York. “It shows
that investors continue to embrace the attractiveness of U.S.
Treasuries even at these very low levels.”  
 The Treasury sold $38 billion in five-year notes yesterday
at a yield of 1.995 percent, compared with the average forecast
of 1.961 percent in the Bloomberg News survey. A sale of $40
billion in two-year notes on June 22 produced a record low yield
of 0.738 percent.  
 Treasury Returns  
 U.S. securities are poised for their best first half in a
decade. Treasuries have returned 5.1 percent since Dec. 31, the
largest gain in the first six months of a year since 2000, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  
 A 1.08 percent increase for Treasuries this month has
exceeded returns of other nations, according to Bloomberg data.
U.K. debt has advanced 0.95 percent, while Canada has advanced
0.70 percent and Germany 0.05 percent.  
 Policy makers kept their target rate for overnight lending
between banks yesterday in a range of zero to 0.25 percent,
where it has been since December 2008. The  decision  was forecast
by all of the 98 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 “The economic recovery is proceeding” and “the labor
market is improving gradually,” the Fed said in its statement.
Central bankers cited slowing inflation and said the recovery is
“proceeding,” altering April language that the economy has
“continued to strengthen.”  
 Housing Drop  
 New home sales  slumped 32.7 percent in May after a tax
credit expired, the Commerce Department said yesterday. The
consumer price index dropped 0.2 percent last month in the
biggest decrease since December 2008, the Labor Department
reported June 17.  
 Futures on the CME Group Inc. exchange show a 20 percent
chance policy makers will increase the fed funds target by at
least a quarter-percentage point by the December meeting, down
from 30 percent odds a month earlier.  
 “The Fed is signaling it has no intention to raise rates
in the foreseeable future,” said  Kevin Flanagan , a strategist
in Purchase, New York, at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney.  
 The central bank said today it plans to conduct the second
test auction of deposits on June 28, selling $2 billion in 28-
day deposits in its Term Deposit Facility that may be used to
drain a near-record amount of cash from the banking system.  
 Test Auction  
 Banks will bid for the lowest rate, and the successful
institutions will deposit money with the  Fed  on July 1 and
receive interest no higher than 0.75 percent. In the first
auction, winning bidders received 0.27 percent.  
 The Federal Open Market Committee is testing the programs
it plans eventually to use to reduce liquidity and prevent the
banking system’s more than $1 trillion in  excess reserves  from
spurring inflation. When the tests were announced, the Fed said
they were “a matter of prudent planning and have no
implications for the near-term conduct of monetary policy.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Hugh Hendry, chief investment officer and co-founder of London-based Eclectica Asset Management, talks with Bloomberg's Erik Schatzker about the outlook for the euro, billionaire investor George Soros and his investment strategy.
     They speak at a Bloomberg sovereign debt conference in London. (This report is an excerpt of the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Jonathan Lemco, a sovereign credit analyst at Vanguard Group Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Erik Schatzker about the outlook for the euro-zone debt crisis.
     Lemco, speaking from a Bloomberg Link conference in London, also discusses the contrast between the subprime-mortgage collapse and the sovereign debt crisis, and investment strategy.  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Michael Materasso, senior portfolio manager and co-chairman of the fixed-income policy committee at Franklin Templeton, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the outlook for the U.S. economy and housing market.
     The U.S. real estate market threatens to undercut the Obama administration’s stimulus-driven economic recovery as home sales resume their record slide following the end of the federal homebuyer tax credit. Materasso, speaking from New York, also discusses Federal Reserve monetary policy and U.S. Treasuries. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
