-- Red Sea Oil Spill Not Caused By Offshore Rigs, Egypt's Oil Ministry Says
-- Alaa Shahine
-- 2010-06-24T15:35:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/red-sea-oil-spill-not-caused-by-offshore-rigs-egypt-s-oil-ministry-says.html

          
          
             The Egyptian  Oil Ministry  said crude
oil that washed ashore at a major Red Sea beach resort area was
leaked by a passing tanker or may have seeped from the ground
due to a heat wave, but was not from any of its rigs.  
 The ministry’s report, issued today, said that all offshore
oil platforms in the Red Sea are “sound,” according to the
state-run  Middle East News Agency . Oil from the rigs was
compared with samples from the sea but the investigators
“cannot say for sure” whether the samples matched.  
 “A rise in temperature during that period led to a shift”
that turned “ancient deposits of oil on some islands to a semi-
liquid state,” which then flowed into the sea, according to the
official account. Ballast from a tanker may have contributed to
the spill, the ministry said.  
 The ministry commissioned the report last weekend to
investigate the source of an oil spill that began washing ashore
along the Hurghada resort area on June 17. The oil stained miles
of the coast.  
 Egypt has been developing its eastern coastline to
encourage tourism, which is the country’s biggest foreign
exchange earner. The Red Sea and nearby Gulf of Suez is also
Egypt’s main oil-producing area, with more than 180 offshore
rigs operating there, according to the ministry.  
 Transparency  
 Amr Ali, managing director of the  Hurghada Environmental
and Conservation Association , said the notion that an oil tanker
or high atmospheric temperatures caused the spill was hard to
digest. “This was not some sort of passing dump of oil, much
less an act of God,” he said. “Any schoolchild can see that.
They just don’t want to take responsibility. There’s zero
transparency in Egypt.”  
 More than 20 kilometers (12 miles) of coastline, from El-
Gouna in the north to Sahi Hashish in the south, had been
polluted by the oil, Al Masry Al Youm newspaper reported on June
19. Only 30 barrels of crude washed ashore near the resort of
Hurghada, according to the ministry.  
 Egypt’s Oil Ministry said on June 22 that by reducing the
number of oil rigs in the Gulf of Suez it might be able to
monitor those that remain more effectively. Oil Minister  Sameh Fahmy  has called for the establishment of a fund to fight
pollution, the ministry said.  
 Total Egyptian oil output averaged 742,000 barrels a day in
2009, compared with a peak of 941,000 barrels a day at the end
of 1993, according to the BP Annual Statistical Review of World
Energy.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Williams  in Cairo at 
 dwilliams41@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        