-- Renault Reduces Sale of Automaker's Bond by 20%, Citing `Difficult' Market
-- Caroline Hyde
-- 2010-06-24T16:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/renault-cuts-bond-issue-by-20-percent-amid-difficult-market-conditions.html

          
          
             Renault SA  reduced a sale of bonds
by 20 percent, citing “more difficult” market conditions.  
 France’s second-biggest carmaker sold 400 million euros
($492 million) of five-year bonds, 100 million euros less than
it originally sought, with a yield premium at the higher end of
the range advertised.  
 “The market is a bit more difficult at the moment,” said
 Gita Roux , a spokeswoman for the Boulogne-Billancourt-based
company. “Renault had the arbitrage between volume and price
and, as the company is not in great need of financing right now,
it would rather focus on price than volume.”  
 Renault will pay a spread of 370 basis points over the
benchmark swap rate, after marketing notes at 360 basis points
to 370 basis points, according to a banker involved in the
transaction. That compares with 329 basis points on Renault’s
existing securities due 2017, according to Bloomberg generic
data. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Renault’s sale follows issues this week by  Volkswagen AG ,
which raised 1 billion euros from three-year bonds sold through
Volkswagen Bank, and PSA Peugeot Citroen’s 500 million-euro
issue of five-year notes, Bloomberg data show. The extra yield
investors demand to buy automaker bonds in euros rose 3 basis
points this week to 113 basis points on average, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  
 ‘Supply Pressure’  
 “The auto sector has about 4.6 billion euros of
refinancing needs this month as bonds redeem and this need to
raise debt is driving new issues ahead of the summer lull,”
said credit strategist  Maureen Schuller  at ING Groep NV in
Amsterdam. “This is just the start of the supply pressure we
will see for the automotive sector going forward.”  
 European stock and credit markets retreated amid renewed
concern that the sovereign debt crisis may derail the economic
recovery. The cost of insuring against losses on European
corporate bonds rose, according to traders of credit-default
swaps.  
 Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50
European companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings
increased 2.5 basis points to 550, JPMorgan Chase & Co. prices
show. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 investment-grade
companies rose 2 to 127.3.  
 The cost of insuring Renault’s bonds against default jumped
20 basis points to 328, the highest level in two weeks,
according to CMA DataVision.  
 Renault’s RCI Banque SA issued debt last week, selling 500
million euros of 2013 bonds at a spread of 253 basis points.
Europe’s auto companies face 14 billion euros of maturing debt
in the second half of 2010, according to ING.  
 The carmaker is  rated Ba1  by Moody’s Investors Service, one
step below investment-grade, and one level lower at BB by
Standard & Poor’s. RCI Banque is ranked at Baa2 by Moody’s, the
second lowest investment-grade, and one step lower at BBB- by
S&P.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Hyde  in London 
 chyde3@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        