-- Fees Exceed Maximum Yields on `Black Box' Securities
-- Zeke Faux
-- 2010-06-24T14:33:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/reverse-convertibles-draw-scrutiny-as-fees-exceed-highest-possible-yield.html

          
          
             Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Barclays Plc are charging fees on some
structured notes that equal or exceed the securities’ highest
possible yield, as sales of the opaque products draw scrutiny
from regulators.  
 On June 15, RBS gave brokers a 2.75 percent commission to
sell a three-month reverse-convertible note with a 2.56 percent
potential yield, according to a prospectus. Last month, JPMorgan
charged 5.25 percent in fees and commissions on a three-month
Citigroup Inc.-linked note that paid 5 percent interest, and
Barclays offered brokers a 2 percent commission on a security
paying 2 percent interest, according to other prospectuses.  
 Charging fees higher than the potential yield on a reverse
convertible is “rare,” according to Durraj Tase, who
supervised structured-note sales at U.S. Trust. Banks sold $460
million of the notes in the U.S. in May, with disclosed
commissions and fees averaging 2 percent for six months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “It seems inconceivable that the commission could be more
than the potential return to clients,” said Tase, who is now a
high-net-worth adviser with First Liberties Financial in New
York. “If you are paying more fees than your potential return,
as an adviser, I would not be able to suggest that note.”  
 The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the industry-
funded brokerage regulator, has made sales of structured notes,
including reverse convertibles, a priority for its examination
and enforcement divisions, according to a March 1  letter  to
brokers.  
 Pholida Phengsomphone, a spokeswoman for RBS, Britain’s
largest government-owned bank, declined to comment.  Justin Perras , a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan, and  Kristin Friel , a spokeswoman for London-based Barclays, also declined to
comment.  
 High Yield  
 Reverse convertibles generally pay higher interest rates
than corporate bonds, with last month’s notes yielding an
average of 15.7 percent per year, Bloomberg data show. Their
risk lies in so-called down-and-in put options built into the
products that allow banks to repay buyers with shares if an
underlying stock declines a certain amount. Investors in RBS’s
note could lose money if Alcoa Inc. drops by more than 25
percent.  
 Down-and-in put options aren’t traded on exchanges, making
them difficult to value without a computer model. The customized
contracts are privately negotiated by banks and their clients in
the $615 trillion over-the-counter derivatives market, where
trades and prices aren’t reported publicly.  
 Broker Demand  
 Brokers often ask banks to create reverse convertibles for
their clients with specific terms, and share in the fees,
according to  Deryk Rhodes , a senior vice president who
distributes structured notes for Newbridge Securities Corp. in
Fort Lauderdale, Florida.  
 Most of the products are sold to individual investors, said
 Chris Warren , New York-based head of structured products at DWS
Investments, the asset management arm of Deutsche Bank AG, which
oversees $133 billion. Short-term reverse convertibles generally
have higher annualized commissions than other structured notes,
he said.  
 “Investors would be well served to ask themselves why
substantial commissions are apparently needed as a sales
incentive,” Warren said in an e-mail on June 18. He declined to
comment on the RBS, Barclays and JPMorgan notes.  
 Finra fined H&R Block Financial Advisors Inc. $200,000 in
February for failing to adequately supervise reverse-convertible
sales. H&R Block neither admitted nor denied the charges. Finra
sent a  letter  to brokers at the time saying sales pitches for
the securities should be “fair and balanced” and posted an
 alert  to investors on its website.  
 ‘Devil’s in Details’  
 “Reverse convertibles may be very appealing on a
superficial level, but the devil’s in the details,” said  John Gannon , a senior vice president of investor education at Finra
in Washington in a June 21 interview. He also declined to
comment on the RBS, Barclays and JPMorgan notes. “It’s tricky
to assess the chances of getting your principal back.”  
 Undisclosed costs, such as a profit for the issuer, are
generally included in the notes’ sale price, according to Finra.
It is “ all but impossible ” for investors to determine the size
of these costs or “whether the reverse convertible represents a
good deal,” Finra said on its website.  
 “It’s pretty easy to build in extra fees because retail
investors aren’t in a position to price the embedded options,”
said  Janet Tavakoli , founder of Chicago-based consulting firm
Tavakoli Structured Finance, in a June 16 telephone interview.  
 Alcoa-Linked Notes  
 RBS sold $375,000 of its  Alcoa -linked reverse convertibles,
according to the prospectus. If shares of the aluminum maker
close more than 25 percent below their initial level on any day
during the note’s three-month term, the down-and-in put option
is triggered, and investors receive the stock at maturity,
instead of their principal.  
 Investors in JPMorgan’s reverse convertibles, which pay 5
percent interest over three months, are exposed to losses if
 Citigroup  declines more than 20 percent. JPMorgan collected a
5.25 percent fee for selling $784,000 of the securities on May
25, according to the prospectus. Barclays’ $1 million offering
on May 10 is linked to the stock of  Apple Inc. , with the option
triggered if shares drop more than 25 percent.  
 While RBS’s Alcoa-linked note pays more interest than a
corporate bond, the embedded down-and-in put option makes the
two difficult to compare, said  William Larkin , who helps oversee
$500 million as fixed-income portfolio manager at Cabot Money
Management in Salem, Massachusetts.  
 “That interest rate is going to instantly get my
attention,” Larkin said in a telephone interview on June 16.
“But if I buy a bond, I’d rather get a fixed rate for a fixed
term, rather than buying a black box with different contracts.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zeke Faux  in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        