-- Rice, Soybean Planting in India Slows as Rains Stall, Weather Office Says
-- Thomas Kutty Abraham
-- 2010-06-24T11:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/rice-soybean-planting-in-india-slows-as-rains-stall-weather-office-says.html

          
          
             India’s monsoon, the main source of
irrigation for the nation’s 235 million farmers, is 11 percent
below  average  this season, slowing early sowing of soybeans and
rice in the biggest growing regions.  
 The nation received 97.4 millimeters (3.83 inches) of rain
from June 1 to June 23, less than the 109.6 millimeter average
deemed normal for the period, the  India Meteorological
Department  said on its website. Last week, falls were 21 percent
below normal at 32.8 millimeters, it said.  
 Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is counting on a normal rains
to increase production of staples including rice, sugar, lentils
and oilseeds after last year’s drought damaged crops and pushed
up food costs. Rising prices are a concern that the central bank
will have to weigh against the risks to growth from the European
debt crisis, Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said in an
interview in Washington yesterday.  
 “We were hoping for an early sowing campaign this year and
are still waiting for rains,”  Rajesh Agrawal , a coordinator for
the Soybean Processors’ Association of India, the country’s top
trade body for oilseed crushers, said today in a phone interview
from Indore. Still, “there’s no reason for panic yet as we are
in the early part of the monsoon season.”  
 Sugar prices in India, the biggest user, rose for the first
time in 12 sessions on speculation a delay in monsoon’s advance
to Uttar Pradesh, the largest cane-grower, may damage the crop.
Immediate-delivery rates in Mumbai, India’s largest wholesale
market for the commodity, increased 1.4 percent to 2,560 rupees
($55.2) per 100 kilograms.  
 Surpassing China  
 India overtook China as the biggest buyer of palm oil last
year, and may import a record 9 million metric tons in the year
to Oct. 31, according to  Dorab Mistry , a director at Godrej, one
of the nation’s biggest vegetable oil importers. The nation also
became the world’s largest sugar importer after last year’s
monsoon was the weakest in more than three decades.  
 Sowing of monsoon crops has lagged last year’s levels after
two tropical cyclones slowed the progress of rain-carrying winds,
according to the farm ministry.  
 Rice was planted across 1.1 million hectares, compared with
1.17 million hectares a year ago, while cotton was sown in 1.48
million hectares, compared with 1.76 million hectares, the farm
ministry said June 18. Oilseeds were planted to 134,900 hectares,
down from 271,000 hectares a year earlier.  
 Northwest India , the nation’s main cane, cotton and rice-
growing region, got 7 percent less rain than normal from June 1
to 23, while central India, which includes the top soybean-
producing areas, received 18 percent less showers, the weather
bureau’s data showed.  
 Tea, Coffee  
 Rains were 16 percent above normal in the south peninsula,
the main coffee and rubber region, and 21 percent below average
in the northeastern states, the main tea areas, the bureau said.  
 Northeast and central regions may get rains in the next 24
hours with the formation of a low pressure weather system over
the North Bay of Bengal, Medha Kole, a director at the weather
bureau’s office in Pune, said today by phone.  
 Falls this year may be 98 percent of the 50-year average,
the weather office said in April. The bureau, which failed to
predict last year’s drought, deems normal rains to be between 96
percent and 104 percent of the long-term average. The office is
scheduled to issue its forecast for July, August and September
tomorrow in New Delhi.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        