-- RIM Tumbles After Revenue Falls Short of Estimates
-- Hugo Miller
-- 2010-06-25T20:13:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/rim-sales-miss-estimates-on-competition-from-apple-s-iphone-shares-fall.html

          
          
             Research In Motion Ltd.  fell the
most in nine months after the company reported sales that fell
short of analysts’ estimates and investors fretted over the
BlackBerry maker’s ability to compete with Apple Inc.’s iPhone.  
 First-quarter  sales rose 24 percent to $4.24 billion, RIM
said yesterday in a statement yesterday after the close of
regular trading. Analysts had predicted $4.35 billion, the
average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 RIM, best known for handsets equipped with a full keyboard,
has struggled to create a touch-screen device that can compete
with Apple’s iPhone or Motorola Inc.’s Droid as consumers
increasingly use phones to watch video and surf the Web. RIM’s
BlackBerry shipments lagged behind analysts’ estimates and the
company projected shrinking margins for this quarter.  
 “They needed to blow out expectations on the quarter or at
least on the guidance to suggest that they’re turning the
corner, and they didn’t,”  Nick Agostino , an analyst at Mackie
Research Capital in Toronto, said in a telephone interview.
“Apple has taken it to RIM both in market share and also in
terms of grabbing the positive headlines.”  
 RIM  dropped  11 percent to $52.23, the most since Sept. 25,
at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The
stock has declined 23 percent this year. RIM said yesterday it
plans to buy back as many as 31 million shares.  
 The Waterloo, Ontario-based company shipped 11.2 million
phones last quarter, falling short of the 11.4 million average
of four analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Two Debuts  
 The average selling price of BlackBerrys to carriers was
about $300, “slightly lower than expected” because of product
mix and delays in shipments of pricier new phones, Chief
Financial Officer  Brian Bidulka  said in a conference call with
analysts.  
 RIM plans to introduce two devices around the end of the
current quarter and beginning of the next, Co-Chief Executive
Officer  Jim Balsillie  said on the call. The devices will have
higher average selling prices and should have a “meaningful”
effect on revenue and earnings forecasts, he said.  
 “New Blackberry devices should help, but we increasingly
fear it may be too little too late to turn the tide in the
U.S,”  William Power , an analyst at Robert Baird & Co. in
Houston, said in a note. He cut his rating on the stock to
“neutral” from “outperform.”  
 Touch-screen Blackberry  
 One of those new devices may be a touch-screen BlackBerry
with a Qwerty keyboard that slides out vertically, according to
Web blogs and analysts including  Mike Abramsky  at RBC Capital
Markets in Toronto.  
 RIM’s OS 6 operating system will be available before the
end of September, Balsillie said. The company didn’t say whether
the two new devices will incorporate OS 6.  
 “You guys have to watch and see what the plans are,”
Balsillie said. “I wish I could wind the clock forward a few
weeks.”  
 The company’s  share  of the smartphone market fell to 19.4
percent of global shipments last quarter from 20.9 percent a
year ago, according to researcher IDC, based in Framingham,
Massachusetts. Apple, whose latest iPhone started selling
yesterday, claimed 16.1 percent of the smartphone market, up
from 10.9 percent a year ago.  
 Onus on RIM  
 Sales this quarter will be $4.4 billion to $4.6 billion,
and earnings per share will be $1.33 to $1.40, RIM said.
Analysts  projected  revenue of $4.51 billion and profit of $1.31
a share.  
 Gross margin , the percentage of sales left after production
costs, will narrow to 44 percent this quarter from 45.4 percent
last quarter, RIM said.  
 First-quarter net income rose 20 percent to $768.9 million,
or $1.38 a share, from $643 million, or $1.12, a year earlier.  
 “The onus is on RIM to execute and regain investor
confidence,” Abramsky said in a note today. He has a “top
pick” rating on the stock.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     James Balsillie, co-chief executive officer of Research In Motion Ltd., speaks at a session on innovation during the National Summit in Detroit. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Bill Kreher, an analyst at Edward Jones & Co., talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the outlook for Research in Motion Ltd. and Apple Inc., and competition between the two smartphone makers.
     Apple probably sold a record 1 million iPhones yesterday after introducing a new model, attracting crowds to stores in five countries. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Betty Liu reports on the latest breaking news and top stories in today's Business Briefs. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Ross Rubin, an analyst at NPD Group Inc., talks about competition between Apple Inc., Google Inc. and Research In Motion Ltd.
     AT&T, the exclusive U.S. carrier for Apple Inc.'s iPhone, said this month it will introduce plans based on the amount of data customers use and stop offering unlimited plans to manage the soaring data traffic. Rubin speaks on Bloomberg Television's "In The Loop With Betty Liu." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
