-- Rio May Face Guinean Threat to `Obey or Leave' as Mining Dispute Escalates
-- Emily Bowers
-- 2010-06-24T16:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/rio-may-face-guinean-threat-to-obey-or-leave-as-mining-dispute-escalates.html

          
          
             Rio Tinto Group  may face a call from
Guinea’s government to “obey or leave” over a dispute on its
ownership of resources at an iron-ore project in the West
African nation, according to Mines Minister  Mahmoud Thiam .  
 Rio, the world’s third-largest mining company, and Guinea
have exchanged letters this week over rights to the Simandou
site in the south of the country. In correspondence yesterday,
the government told the London-based company it planned to take
a 20 percent stake in blocks 3 and 4 at the project, Thiam said.  
 “We are debating if we wait for their response or if we
show them, as the government, that they are guests in our
country and either they obey or leave,” Thiam said today in an
interview in the capital, Conakry.  
 “We are considering our options and will respond in a
timely manner,” said  Faeth Birch , a London-based spokeswoman
for Rio.  
 The spat dates back to late 2008, when a military coup that
brought Captain  Moussa Dadis Camara  to power led to a review of
mining contracts. Former President  Lansana Conte  had awarded
projects with favorable terms in the 1990s when “no one wanted
to come here,” Thiam said. “The country was on its knees.”  
 Rio controlled the entire Simandou concession until Guinea
ordered it to hand over blocks 1 and 2 just before Conte’s death
in December 2008 to closely held BSG Resources Ltd. In April
this year, Brazil’s Vale SA agreed to pay $2.5 billion for
deposits in Guinea, including those blocks.  
 Guinea Investment  
 Thiam, who was appointed minister three weeks after the
2008 coup, said Guinea is now more attractive to foreign
companies and needn’t fear redressing the balance of power in
the mining industry.  
 “Five years ago we would have shied away because we’d be
afraid of losing new investors,” the minister said, referring
to the dispute. “The market will not turn from Guinea because
of Rio.”  
 Thiam said he will step down as minister after Guinea’s
presidential election on June 27.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Emily Bowers  in Conakry via Johannesburg at
   ebowers1@bloomnberg.net ;
 Alpha Camara  in Conakry via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        