-- Riversdale, Wuhan Iron Agree on $800 Million Coal Project in Mozambique
-- Elisabeth Behrmann
-- 2010-06-24T03:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/riversdale-wuhan-iron-agree-on-800-million-coal-project-in-mozambique.html

          
          
             Riversdale Mining Ltd ., an
Australian developer of coal projects in Africa, signed an
initial $800 million agreement with Wuhan Iron and Steel Corp.
to build a coking coal mine in Mozambique’s Tete province.  
 Wuhan will buy a 40 percent stake in the Zambeze project
and 8 percent of Riversdale, the Sydney-based company said today
in a statement. The deal values the project at $2 billion.  
 The Chinese steelmaker will have the right to buy at least
40 percent of the coking coal from Zambeze, Riversdale said. The
Australian company also signed a logistics partnership accord
with China Communications Construction Co.  
 “Through our Chinese venture partners, we gain funding to
develop the mine and a buyer for part of Zambeze’s offtake,”
Riversdale Executive Chairman  Michael O’Keeffe  said. “We also
gain access to world class mine to ship logistics and
infrastructure expertise to facilitate the export of the mine’s
coal products.”  
 Riversdale  shares  rose as much as 6 percent to A$11.17 in
Sydney, the most since March 1, and traded at A$10.98 as of
12:42 p.m. in Sydney. Wuhan Steel’s listed unit  Wuhan Iron &
Steel Co.  fell 1.1 percent to 4.57 yuan in Shanghai.  
 The non-binding agreement “needs regulatory approvals as
well as other necessary steps to be completed,” Wuhan Steel
spokesman  Bai Fang  said today by phone from Wuhan city, without
elaborating.  
 Global supplies of coking coal will be crimped this year as
Chinese imports near the 2009 record of 34.4 million tons, and
demand from other nations picks up with the economic recovery,
Teck Resources Ltd. said in March. Prices may reach $300 a ton
in the second half, Citigroup said April 12.  
 Iron ore and coking coal are the two key ingredients in
steel. Coking coal is turned into coke and used in blast
furnaces.  
 -- Xiao Yu . Editors:  Keith Gosman ,  Andrew Hobbs   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        