-- Tronox Can Change Bankruptcy Loan Terms to Avoid Liquidation, Judge Says
-- Tiffany Kary
-- 2010-06-24T15:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/tronox-can-change-bankruptcy-loan-terms-to-avoid-liquidation-judge-says.html

          
          
             Tronox Inc. , a bankrupt chemical
maker, won approval to amend a loan agreement after missed
deadlines that could have opened the way for lenders to force
the company into liquidation.  
 Tronox can make the changes it sought in the $425 million
loan that funds operations as it reorganizes, U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge  Allan Gropper  ruled at a hearing today. The changes push
back the maturity date to Sept. 24. Without them, the loan would
have been payable today, and the lenders could have required
Tronox to sell all of its assets, bringing lower recoveries to
stakeholders.  
 The amendment also allows Tronox to engage in “certain
currency hedging activities” and requires fees to Goldman Sachs
Lending Partners LLC, the administrative agent to the loan, and
the lenders. Tronox, which filed for bankruptcy in January 2009,
defaulted on its initial “debtor-in-possession” operating
loan, and won court permission for the $425 million replacement
loan in December. It requested the changes June 15.  
 “I’ll approve the request for relief,” Gropper said.  
 Setting Terms  
 In requesting the loan changes, Oklahoma City-based Tronox
said it hasn’t filed a so-called disclosure statement setting
out the terms of a Chapter 11 reorganization or reached a
settlement of government environmental claims, making compliance
with current deadlines impossible.  
 The U.S. Trustee, the arm of the U.S. government that
monitors bankruptcy cases, had objected to Tronox’s request,
arguing that it intentionally failed to disclose documents and
fees.  
 The government’s objection was resolved after Tronox in
court papers dislosed a $2.13 million fee to the lenders, and
during the hearing a $250,000 administrative-agent fee to
Goldman Sachs was revealed.  
 Gropper said he was “glad” that disclosure of the fees
was resolved.  
 “The concept that this constitutes confidential,
proprietary information, as far as I’m concerned, is an
absurdity,” he said. “Get out of the business or get out of my
court if you don’t want it disclosed.”  
 Polluted Sites  
 Tronox makes chemicals for paints, coatings, plastics,
paper, batteries, toothpaste, sunscreen and shampoo. The company
has disputed its responsibility for many polluted sites,
including more than 600 mining-related sites and 270 chemical
labs. It sued  Anadarko Petroleum Corp.  and Kerr-McGee in May
2009, saying the companies’ 2006 spinoff of Tronox saddled it
with $550 million in environmental liabilities.  
 Patrick J. Nash Jr., a lawyer for Tronox at Chicago-based
Kirkland & Ellis LLP, told Gropper today that the company is
continuing to work on the environmental settlements.  
 “We have every intention of filing a plan sometime between
the July 4 holiday and the July 12 deadline” for a
reorganization plan, Nash said.  
 The bankruptcy case is Tronox Inc., 09-10156, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in New York at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net ;
 Tiffany Kary  in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        