-- Ruble Appreciation `Inevitable,' Won't Bring Capital Controls, Pankin Says
-- Agnes Lovasz
-- 2010-06-25T13:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/ruble-appreciation-inevitable-won-t-bring-capital-controls-pankin-says.html

          
          
             A stronger ruble is inevitable and
won’t prompt the Russian government to impose capital controls,
Deputy Finance Minister  Dmitry Pankin  said.  
 The currency’s appreciation is “a real problem” for
Russia’s economy because it cuts budget revenue, particularly
from oil and gas sales priced in dollars, and makes it harder
for Russian manufacturers to sell their goods abroad, Pankin
said in an interview in London yesterday.  
 “I can’t say we support ruble appreciation, it’s a real
problem for the Russian economy, but still it’s inevitable,”
Pankin said. “Up to now we have a more liberal capital control
approach and we have no immediate plan to introduce any kind of
capital restrictions.”  
 The ruble is benefiting from oil prices above $70 a barrel
and growth prospects in Russia, which together with China,
Brazil and India, the so-called BRIC nations, are seen
propelling the global recovery after the credit crisis. The
currency also may attract capital as investors look for
alternatives to Europe’s crisis-ridden debt markets.  
 ‘Stood Out’  
 Dedicated BRIC equity funds had their best week since early
March during the seven days through yesterday, attracting $772
million, a report by EPFR Global showed. Within the emerging
Europe, Middle East, and Africa group of markets, Russia “which
has been aggressively cutting interest rates and sells plenty of
dollar-denominated commodities, stood out,” with the funds
investing in Russian stocks receiving $124 million in the past
week, EPFR said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 The ruble may gain an inflation-adjusted 20 percent in the
next three years against the currencies of Russia’s major
trading partners, a government report said this month. It traded
little changed at 31.1350 per dollar as of 1 p.m. in Moscow, and
weakened 0.2 percent to 38.3050 to the euro. Bank Rossii keeps
the currency within a trading band of 26 to 41 against a  basket 
made up dollars and euros.  
 When oil prices rise, the ruble strengthens and the central
bank needs currency flexibility to fight inflation, Pankin said.
The central bank plans to gradually allow it to trade freely.  
 Reserve Currency  
 Russia wants the ruble to be one of the world’s reserve
currencies as the country seeks to reassert its economic
influence after last year’s recession. The ruble should gain
reserve status as Brazil, China and India also seek increased
roles for their currencies, Pankin said.  
 “It’s inevitable and it’s necessary to raise the number of
reserve currencies,” Pankin said. “It’s a market requirement
that it’s not only a dollar/euro basket.”  
 Russia, which holds the world’s third-largest currency
reserves, would consider including the yuan, real and rupee in
its currency reserves, should those governments lift currency
restrictions and make them fully convertible, Pankin said. The
central bank already said it may add the Australian and Canadian
dollars to its international reserves.  
 Russia in April sold $5.5 billion of bonds, the second
biggest emerging-market dollar debt offering on record, and a
return by the country to world capital markets for the first
time since defaulting in 1998.  
 While Russia is now concentrating on its domestic bond
market to raise funds to finance its budget deficit, another
bond sale abroad this year or next remains “possible,” Pankin
said. The bonds to be sold abroad may also be denominated in
rubles, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Agnes Lovasz  in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       A currency exchange in Moscow  
                       
                         
                           Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Pedestrians pass a sign advertising rates at a currency exchange bureau in Moscow on Aug. 14, 2009. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Pedestrians pass a sign advertising rates at a currency exchange bureau in Moscow on Aug. 14, 2009. Photographer: Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
