-- Rudd's Leadership Ends Within Hours of Challenge as Poll Ratings Implode
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-06-24T07:04:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/rudd-s-leadership-ends-within-hours-of-challenge-as-poll-ratings-implode.html

          
          
             Kevin Rudd ’s tenure as Australian
prime minister crumbled within 24 hours as a clash with
colleagues on his proposed mining tax and climate change came to
a head.  
 Rudd stood down as Labor leader at a meeting of party
lawmakers in Canberra today after a surge in dissatisfaction
among voters in the prime minister enabled his former deputy
 Julia Gillard  to seize the post.  
 “I have given my absolute all,” Rudd told reporters after
the party meeting, showing signs of emotion that forced him to
repeatedly pause during his final news conference as prime
minister.  
 The Mandarin-speaking Rudd, 52, enjoyed record high
popularity early in his 31 months in office, helped by his move
to formally apologize to indigenous Australians for past
injustices. Support evaporated after he postponed the
introduction of a carbon trading plan to limit climate change, a
phenomenon he described as the “greatest moral and economic
challenge of our time.”  
 Rudd’s popularity came from the honesty and trust he showed,
values that people look for in political leaders, Wayne
Errington at Canberra-based Australian National University said
in a phone interview today.  
 “For someone who didn’t have a strong basis in personality
or charisma or base in the party, he only had that popularity to
lean on,” Errington said. “When that disappeared, the
factional leaders, people he’d been ignoring, said ‘here’s a
chance to get rid of him.’”  
 Key Seats  
 Speculation about a challenge from Gillard intensified this
week after a survey by Newspoll, published by the Australian
newspaper, showed Rudd would lose a federal election in key
seats in Queensland state and the western suburbs of Sydney,
areas that helped him end former coalition Prime Minister  John Howard ’s 11-year government in November 2007.  
 A separate poll published June 7 by the Sydney Morning
Herald showed the opposition coalition, led by  Tony Abbott , led
Rudd 53 percent to 47 percent on a two-party preferred basis in
the lead-up to a national ballot due before April.  
 Gillard said today that she moved to win the leadership
because a “good government was losing its way.”  
 “I know the Rudd government did not do all it said it
would do and at times it went off track,” she said.  
 Mining Tax  
 Dissatisfaction with Rudd deepened in early May when he
announced plans to introduce a 40 percent tax on mining profits,
according to Newspoll.  
 That contrasts with Rudd’s ratings in the first two years
of his government, during which support for his leadership among
voters surged to a record 73 percent.  
 He garnered plaudits from voters in February 2008 when he
offered the nation’s first apology to Aborigines taken from
their families for assimilation with the white community, saying
the policy was a “blemished chapter” in the nation’s history.  
 Rudd, with Treasurer  Wayne Swan , also helped steer
Australia’s economy through the global financial crisis that
plunged most of the world’s developed economies into their
deepest recessions since World War II.  
 The government boosted spending on schools and roads,
bolstered the banking system, and distributed more than A$20
billion ($18 billion) in cash to households, ensuring gross
domestic product expanded every quarter except one during his
tenure. That kept the nation’s unemployment rate at almost half
the level of the U.S. and Europe.  
 Opposition Leaders  
 Those successes helped Rudd, a former diplomat to China,
outlast two separate leaders of the opposition,  Brendan Nelson 
and  Malcolm Turnbull , who was replaced by Abbott late last year.  
 Moves to oust Rudd gathered pace yesterday after the Sydney
Morning Herald reported the prime minister dispatched an aide to
canvass his support among Labor lawmakers in recent weeks.  
 “That was a grave mistake,” Paul Howes, head of the
Australian Workers Union, which is affiliated to the Labor party,
told the Australian Broadcasting Corp. late yesterday. “The
deputy prime minister had previously without any caveats given
her full support to the prime minister.  
 ‘‘To go out there and to start to test the numbers was to
make out that she was somehow being disloyal,’’ Howes said on
the ABC’s Lateline show.  
 Lost Support  
 News reports emerged around 7 p.m. in Canberra yesterday
that members of the party were meeting to discuss Rudd’s future,
fueling speculation he had lost the support of key lawmakers.  
 Rudd held a news conference about three hours later to
announce a ballot for the party leadership at 9 a.m. today and
that Gillard would contest the vote.  
 By 9:30 a.m., Gillard was elected to the Labor leadership
unopposed after Rudd resigned both as leader of the party and
prime minister.  
 ‘‘A midnight knock on the door followed by a political
execution is no way that the Australian prime minister should be
treated,” Abbott told parliament today.  
 Gillard, sworn in as prime minister by Governor-General
 Quentin Bryce  just after 1 p.m. in Canberra, will be a “good
P.M.,” Rudd said today.  
 “I will be dedicating my every effort to ensure the re-
election of this Australian Labor government,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        