-- Russia to Lift Ban on U.S. Chicken Meat, Obama Says After Medvedev Talks
-- Jennifer A. Johnson
-- 2010-06-24T21:18:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/russia-agrees-to-lift-ban-on-u-s-poultry-imports-after-meeting-with-obama.html

          
          
             Russia, once the largest importer of
U.S. chicken, has agreed to lift a five-month-old ban on the
meat after talks between presidents  Barack Obama  and  Dmitry Medvedev . Shares of U.S. poultry producers rose in New York.  
 Russia essentially barred U.S. chicken in January by
slashing the allowable amount of chlorine U.S. producers can use
to disinfect the meat. Russia  spent  about $752 million on U.S.
chicken in 2009, U.S. Department of Agriculture data show. Obama
and Medvedev met today in Washington to discuss trade before
attending a Group of 20 meeting this weekend in Toronto.  
 “We have reached an agreement that will allow the United
States to begin exporting our poultry products to Russia once
again,” Obama said during a joint press conference.  
 U.S. exports of chicken to Russia plunged 84 percent in the
four months ended April 30 from a year earlier, and there were
no shipments in March or April, according to the most-recent
USDA data. The price of U.S.  wholesale chicken legs , a major
export to Russia, fell 27 percent in the past year.  
 Chicken exports to Russia may resume “within a matter of
days,”  Jim Sumner , the president of the USA Poultry and Egg
Export Council, said in an interview. U.S. producers have agreed
to replace chlorine with three different “pathogen-reduction
treatments,” he said.  
 Poultry Stocks Gain  
 “We will have to comply with the same requirements that
are being used for Russian poultry producers,” said Sumner,
whose Stone Mountain, Georgia-based trade group represents 90
percent of U.S. poultry and egg exporters. Chicken producers
“are in the process of switching over their plants to the new
products. Several plants have already completed this process.”  
 Tyson Foods Inc. , a poultry processor, rose 0.9 percent to
$17.87. Pilgrim’s Pride Corp. gained 5.4 percent to $7.23, and
 Sanderson Farms Inc.  increased 4 percent to $52.60. Overall,
stocks fell, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 index losing 1.7
percent.  
 Lifting the ban is “very positive news,”  Ken Goldman , an
analyst for JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York, said in a note.
“Dark meat has foundered under the ban and was poised to drop
further in price. The end of the ban should, when stocks of
frozen supply are worked through, bring prices for leg quarters
back to a normal range.”  
 The USDA said on June 15 that it would spend as much as $14
million on dark-meat chicken for federal-food programs in an
effort to draw down inventories and boost domestic prices.  
 Rapid Relief  
 Dark-meat chicken prices “should improve fairly rapidly”
as Russia resumes buying, said  Joe F. Sanderson Jr. , the chief
executive officer of Laurel, Mississippi-based Sanderson Farms.  
 “We needed the Russian market back,” Sanderson said in a
telephone interview. “Dark-meat values were coming under some
pressure. This is going to take that pressure off. This is good
news for the balance of the year.”  
 Negotiations with Russia to enter the World Trade
Organization may be wrapped up as soon as September, Obama said.
Obama didn’t provide details of the poultry export agreement
during his speech.  
 “It’s odd, when you’re sitting in historic meetings with
your Russian counterpart, to spend time talking about chicken,”
Obama said. “But our ability to get resolved a trade dispute
around poultry -- that is a multibillion-dollar export for the
United States -- was an indication of the seriousness with which
President Medvedev and his team take all of these trade and
commercial issues.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .
 Jennifer A. Johnson  in Chicago at 
 jjohnson133@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        