-- Russia Leads Race to Build New Regional Jet After Engine Receives Approval
-- Richard Weiss
-- 2010-06-24T09:55:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/russia-leads-race-to-build-new-regional-jet-after-engine-receives-approval.html

          
          
             Sukhoi Civil Aircraft Co., the
commercial unit of Russian military plane maker  Sukhoi Co. , is
chipping away at a Canadian-Brazilian duopoly for regional jets
after scoring a milestone certification for its SuperJet model.  
 The engine for the SuperJet, Russia’s first major passenger
airplane project since the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991,
was certified yesterday by the European Aviation Safety Agency.
Russia’s Avia Register is set to follow “within a few weeks,”
said PowerJet, the company selling the engine. Certification
includes tests for safety, noise and emissions.  
 The approval brings the SuperJet, which can carry 75 to 95
passengers, one step closer to challenging Brazil’s Empresa
Brasileira de Aeronautica SA and Canada’s Bombardier Inc. as the
only builders of regional jets. Certification for the plane may
follow later this year, with three prototypes already
accumulating thousands of hours of test flights, EASA said.  
 “From what we know today, the plane can still get
certification this year,” Norbert Lohl, certification director
at EASA, said at a ceremony in Cologne yesterday.  
 Bombardier filed for certification of its CSeries jet that
seats 100 to 149 passengers with EASA at the beginning of the
year, and Embraer filed for a competing plane this year, Lohl
said. The process typically takes about five years, he said.
Bombardier targets entry into service for 2013. The SuperJet may
include a stretch version with up to 118 seats.  
 Crowded Field  
 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. of Japan and a planemaker
from China may also file for certifications for similar sized
planes with EASA in the foreseeable future, Lohl said, bringing
the number of models competing in the same segment to five.  
 The SuperJet is “three to four years” ahead of
competitors, Snecma Chief Executive Officer  Philippe Petitcolin 
said at the event. Safran SA’s Snecma, together with Saturn NPO
of Russia, makes the SaM146 engine for the SuperJet.  
 Some 13 engines will be produced this year, with as many as
50 following next year, Petitcolin said, reflecting the current
order level of 122 planes for the SuperJet. Sukhoi has said it
plans to sell at least 1,800 of the new jets over 20 years.  
 Sukhoi Civil Aircraft, in which Italy’s Finmeccanica SpA
owns 25 percent, is scheduled to deliver the first three
SuperJets this year to Russian carrier OAO Aeroflot and Armenian
airline Armavia, Sukhoi CEO  Mikhail Pogosyan  said in June.
Fifteen SuperJets are scheduled for delivery in 2011, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        