-- Safety Agency Cut Oversight of Mines With Repeated Violations, U.S. Says
-- Holly Rosenkrantz
-- 2010-06-24T15:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/safety-agency-cut-oversight-of-mines-with-repeated-violations-u-s-says.html

          
          
             Regulators failed to subject coal
mines with repeated safety violations to the enhanced oversight
required when a company shows disregard for the well-being of
its miners, the U.S. Labor Department said in a report.  
 The  Mine Safety and Health Administration  in 2009
restricted a screening list for mines with recurring violations
because of resource limits, removing 10 for reasons that don’t
appear to be appropriate, the department’s Office of Inspector
General  said  yesterday. MSHA was criticized by lawmakers after
29 miners died in a blast at a  Massey Energy Co.  mine that had
more numerous and more serious violations than the U.S. average.  
 “It’s clear that we need to scrap the current system and
put a new system in place that is focused on protecting miners’
safety and health,” Labor Secretary  Hilda Solis  said in an e-
mailed statement after the report was released.  
 The mine-safety agency has been under scrutiny since the
April 5 explosion at  Massey ’s Upper Big Branch mine in Montcoal,
West Virginia. President  Barack Obama  has said mine-safety laws
are “so riddled with loopholes they allow unsafe conditions to
continue” and on April 15 ordered inspections of mines with
troubling safety records.  
 Joe Main , head of MSHA, said his agency plans to use a
different screening process for mines this year.  
 Decisions about how regulators should handle patterns of
violations “will be based on the law and focused on what is
best for the safety and health of the miners at the mines under
consideration,” Main said in a June 23 letter to Representative
 George Miller , a California Democrat, chairman of the House
Education and Labor Committee.  
 ‘Inappropriate’ Limits  
 Solis and Democratic lawmakers have blamed the failings in
mine-safety oversight on the Bush administration, and said the
inspector general’s report underscored that record. The Labor
Department said the enforcement system was created during the
previous administration.  
 Miller said he plans to propose legislation to change mine
health and safety laws. He said the report also raises questions
about adequate funding for MSHA’s regional offices to enforce
the law.  
 MSHA had identified 41 mines for so-called pattern-of-
violation screening in 2009 and removed 10 mines, including one
cut twice during separate reviews, in response to limits set by
the Coal Mine Safety and Health administrator, according to the
report. District managers were told to list no more than three
mines for each MSHA district.  
 “This instruction set a limit that was inappropriate for
this enforcement program,” said Elliot P. Lewis, the assistant
Labor Department inspector general who issued the report.  
 10-Day Period  
 Lewis gave MSHA 10 days to act on a request to re-evaluate
the status of mines that were removed from the list.  
 MSHA “obstructed a key safety enforcement tool that could
have endangered the lives of mine workers,” Miller said in an
e-mailed statement.  
 The report was issued at the request of lawmakers including
Miller, who had sought an investigation into the April
disclosure that a computer error prevented MSHA from notifying
Massey that the Upper Big Branch mine may be placed under
pattern-of-violation enforcement.  
 Once a mine is notified that they may be under a pattern-
of-violation, the mine must take immediate actions to come up
with a plan to reduce future violations, or face tougher
sanctions.  
 Regulators have criticized Massey for appealing so many
safety citations. Main has said Massey contested 78 percent of
the proposed penalties at Upper Big Branch last year.  
 At a Senate hearing last month, Massey Chief Executive
Officer  Don Blankenship  said the company appeals many safety
citations because it disagreed with the inspector’s judgment, or
because the proposed penalty was unfair.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Holly Rosenkrantz  in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        