-- Sakata Seeks to Triple Share in India on `F1' Hybrid Seed Demand, CEO Says
-- Kotaro Tsunetomi
-- 2010-06-24T01:03:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/sakata-seeks-to-triple-share-in-india-on-f1-hybrid-seed-demand-ceo-says.html

          
          
             Sakata Seed Corp. , a Japanese seed
wholesaler, is betting that rising demand for its disease-
resistant hybrid ‘F1’ seeds will help the company triple its
market share in India.  
 The company accounts for about 1 to 3 percent of the ‘F1’
and ‘open pollinated’ vegetable seed market in the world’s
second-fastest growing major economy, and plans to increase it
to 10 percent by 2018, Chief Executive Officer  Hiroshi Sakata .
That would place the company in the top five vegetable seed
wholesalers in India, Sakata said. F1 seeds are first generation
offspring from cross-breeding of two different parents.  
 “About a quarter of the seeds used in  India  are F1 seeds.
I see that ratio increasing to more than half as India’s economy
grows, and shifts from cheaper seeds that are produced through
open pollination,” Sakata said in an interview in Tokyo. “It
won’t take long for that to happen. It’s our business
opportunity.”  
 His company, Japan’s largest listed  seed wholesaler , is
betting on demand for higher-yielding F1 seeds rising in India
as rising wages in an expanding economy makes the seeds more
affordable. India’s economy is expected to grow 8.8 percent this
year, compared with 1.9 percent for Japan and 1 percent in the
Euro area, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  
 Sakata Seed, based in Kanagawa Prefecture, west of Tokyo,
is aiming for 300 million yen ($3.3 million) in sales in India
by next fiscal year, and 500 million yen by 2013. The company
declined to comment on last year’s sales in India.  
 Disease Resistant  
 About 90 percent of the seeds the company produces are of
the F1 variety. Disease-resistant hybrid seeds are more
expensive but provide at least two to three times higher
economic returns from their yield and quality than open
pollinated cultivars, according to the United Nations’  Food and
Agriculture Organization .  
 “I don’t think Sakata’s F1 seed marketing in India will be
up on its feet running as fast as they expect,” said  Masanobu Mizuta , an analyst at Toward the Infinite World Inc., who has a
“ neutral plus ” rating on the stock. “It’s still planting
seeds for growth in the region, and it will take some time for
farmers to truly see the benefits of expensive F1 seeds. But the
fact that they have already set their eyes on India is a
positive.”  
 Sakata Seed , founded in 1913 and listed on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange since 1987, established a subsidiary office near New
Delhi in May 2008. It currently operates farmland, research
centers and sales divisions across India, and has 55 employees.  
 The company is scheduled to report full-year earnings on
July 15. Its  shares  have tumbled 11 percent this year through
yesterday compared with a 3 percent decline for the  Topix index .
The stock is valued at 142 times reported profit, while
companies in the Topix index trade at an average 32 times.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
 Kotaro Tsunetomi  in Tokyo at 
 ktsunetomi@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        