-- Salesforce.com Files Patent Lawsuit Against Microsoft Over Cloud Software
-- Rochelle Garner
-- 2010-06-24T23:03:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/salesforce-com-sues-microsoft-over-cloud-software-patent-infringement.html

          
          
             Salesforce.com Inc.  filed a patent-
infringement lawsuit today against  Microsoft Corp. , escalating a
fight between the two companies over the growing market for
cloud-computing software.  
 Microsoft’s products such as .Net platform and SharePoint
perform in a way that violates the Salesforce.com patents, and
the “risk of infringement was either known or so obvious that
it should have been known by Microsoft,” Salesforce.com said in
the complaint.  
 “Microsoft has incorporated Salesforce.com’s patented
technology into its services and products,” the San Francisco-
based company said today in the lawsuit filed in federal court
in Wilmington, Delaware.  
 The complaint is in response to a patent-infringement
lawsuit Microsoft filed in May against Salesforce.com, which
pits the world’s largest software maker against the biggest
seller of Internet-based customer-management programs. Microsoft
targeted Salesforce.com’s customer-relationship management
software and sought a court order that would prevent the company
from providing features that Microsoft claims it invented.  
 Salesforce.com hired  David Boies , the lawyer for the U.S.
Justice Department in its successful antitrust case against
Microsoft, to handle the case. “Salesforce.com doesn’t comment
on pending litigation, and we will let our court filings speak
for themselves,” spokeswoman  Jane Hynes  said in an interview.  
 Microsoft ‘Confident’  
 Horacio Gutierrez , Microsoft’s deputy general counsel for
intellectual property, said the company was reviewing the
Salesforce.com complaint. “We remain confident in our position
and will continue to press ahead with the complaint” filed in
federal court in Seattle, he said.  
 Salesforce.com, founded in 1999, sells subscriptions to
business software that runs marketing campaigns and tracks sales
leads using the Internet. It competes with Microsoft’s Dynamics
programs.  Salesforce.com  had $1.3 billion in sales last year.  
 The complaint seeks a court order that would prevent
Microsoft’s further use of Salesforce.com products, plus
unspecified cash compensation.  
 The earlier case is Microsoft Corp. v. Salesforce.com Inc.,
10cv825, U.S. District Court, Western District of Washington
(Seattle).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
 Rochelle Garner  in San Francisco at 
 rgarner4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        