-- Sanofi-Aventis Is `on Track' to Meet Diabetes Sales Targets, Chancel Says
-- Albertina Torsoli
-- 2010-06-24T06:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/sanofi-aventis-is-on-track-to-meet-diabetes-sales-targets-chancel-says.html

          
          
             Sanofi-Aventis SA , France’s biggest
drugmaker, is “well on track” to meet its target to double
diabetes sales between 2008 and 2013,  Pierre Chancel , who heads
the company’s diabetes division, said in an interview.  
 Paris-based Sanofi expects its best-selling product, the
diabetes drug Lantus, to maintain its lead among rival
treatments in the $24 billion-a-year diabetes market even as
competition from newer products increases, Chancel said.  
 Lantus, a long-acting insulin analogue that was the first
once-a-day product of its kind, had 3.08 billion euros ($3.8
billion) in sales last year, accounting for 11 percent of total
 revenue . Rivals such as  Novo Nordisk A/S  have introduced new
classes of products or advanced more quickly than Sanofi in the
development of insulins engineered to work longer.  
 Lantus isn’t in danger, according to Chancel, who spoke in
a telephone interview from Sanofi’s headquarters.  
 “What we have seen to date suggests no clear advantage
over Lantus,” Chancel said. “To beat Lantus, a product needs
to show superiority in more than one parameter,” such as
reducing the risk that blood sugar levels get too low. “We’re
still not seeing that.”  
 More than 220 million people worldwide have diabetes, and
the number of people with the condition, caused by a lack of
insulin needed to convert blood sugar into energy, is expected
to rise to 366 million by 2030, according to the  World Health
Organization . Most have the Type 2 form of the disease linked to
older age, excess weight and physical inactivity.  
 Novo’s Victoza  
 Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based  Novo  is selling Victoza, which
belongs to a new class of diabetes drugs that imitate a hormone
called GLP-1 and stimulate the pancreas to produce more insulin
after meals. It also is in the advanced stages of development
for a longer-acting insulin analogue called Degludec.  
 “Degludec should provide tougher competition for Lantus,”
 Jack Scannell  and  Tim Anderson , analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein
& Co., wrote in a June 21 note to clients.  
 Sanofi is  developing  a longer-acting insulin analogue,
currently in initial human studies. It’s also working on its own
GLP-1 agonist, lixisenatide, which is in an advanced stage of
clinical trials. Its combination with Lantus has “a high
probability of being very attractive,” said Chancel, who will
participate in the annual American Diabetes Association meeting
this week.  
 Sanofi is also counting on its blood glucose metering
devices and reusable and disposable insulin pens to help propel
sales, Chancel said.  
 ‘Offer It All’  
 “Up until now you had companies that were big insulin
makers, and others that were big device makers, but you didn’t
have one company uniting the two,” he said. “Sanofi will offer
it all.”  
 Sanofi Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  identified
diabetes as one of Sanofi’s five “growth platforms” to help
counter the loss of revenue as prescription medicines accounting
for more than 20 percent of the company’s sales face generic
competition. He reorganized Sanofi’s diabetes business, stopped
the least-promising projects and started looking outside for
products to replenish the company’s pipeline.  
 Sanofi “will continue with acquisitions and partnerships”
to make its diabetes pipeline more competitive, and there
probably will be more deals “before the end of the year,”
Chancel said, without elaborating.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Albertina Torsoli  in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        