-- Santander to Buy $3.2 Bln in Auto Loans From Citi
-- Bradley Keoun
-- 2010-06-24T17:16:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/santander-to-buy-3-2-billion-of-citigroup-s-auto-loans-in-u-s-expansion.html

          
          
             Banco Santander  SA, Spain’s biggest
bank, agreed to purchase about $3.2 billion in auto loans from
Citigroup Inc., expanding its U.S. consumer-lending business.  
 Santander Consumer USA, a Santander unit, will buy the
loans from Citigroup’s CitiFinancial Auto, Santander and
Citigroup said today in a statement. Santander and Citigroup
also have entered into an agreement under which Santander will
service a portfolio of about $7.2 billion of auto loans to be
retained by Citigroup.  
 Santander, based in the Spanish city of the same name, is
targeting growth in the U.S., which will contribute 5 percent of
group profit this year and as much as $1.15 billion in earnings
by 2011, Chairman  Emilio Botin , 75, has said.  Juan Inciarte , the
lender’s head of strategy, said today in Madrid that the bank
needed to “pay attention” to what happens in the “monster”
markets of the U.S. and China.  
 CitiFinancial Auto is one of more than two dozen businesses
that Citigroup Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  tagged for
sale or eventual closure in January 2009 following the bank’s
$45 billion bailout in 2008.  
 As of March 31, Citigroup’s North American auto-lending
business had $12.7 billion of loans outstanding, down from $18
billion a year earlier, according to the bank’s website. With
Santander scheduled to buy or service $10.4 billion of the
assets, Citigroup will have mostly exited the business.  
 The sale won’t have a material impact on Citigroup’s net
income, the banks said in the statement.  
 Santander’s Acquisitions  
 Santander  bought Drive Financial, a subprime auto lender in
2006. Last year Santander completed the purchase of
Philadelphia-based Sovereign Bancorp, a 772-branch lender with
about $72 billion in assets. Santander Consumer USA, based in
Dallas, has a serviced auto-loan portfolio of about $14.9
billion.  
 The bank is also trying to resurrect talks to combine
Sovereign with M&T Bank Corp. after negotiations collapsed last
month, according to three people with knowledge of the matter.  
 To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Charles Penty  in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net 
 Bradley Keoun  in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        