-- Sasol Names Heads of New Projects, Current Business as Seeks Growth Abroad
-- Carli Lourens
-- 2010-06-24T09:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/sasol-s-ramon-says-operating-profit-improved-during-fiscal-third-quarter.html

          
          
             Sasol Ltd. , the largest producer of
motor fuels made from coal, appointed managers for new business
development and current operations as the company looks to grow
outside its South African base to China, Uzbekistan and Qatar.  
 Lean Strauss, head of international energy operations, will
take over new business development, while chemicals manager
Andre de Ruyter will assume responsibility for Sasol’s current
production apart from mining, the company said in a statement.
Chief Executive Officer  Pat Davies  will stay on for about a year
beyond his previous retirement date, according to the statement.  
 “It’s the first tangible statement from Sasol along the
lines of a decent succession plan,”  Chris Gilmour , an analyst
at Absa Investments, said by phone from Johannesburg today.
“This is good.”  
 Sasol, which employs technology used to make South Africa
self-reliant on fuel during the apartheid era, has become the
largest producer of motor fuels from natural gas. It operates a
plant in Qatar and is studying growth in gas-rich regions such
as Uzbekistan and Russia, and a coal-to-fuels plant in China.  
 Operating profit  gained in the fiscal third-quarter ended
March as oil and chemicals prices jumped and production rose.  
 “That’s quite an achievement given the fact that the rand
has been so strong,” Gilmour said. “Sasol is very sensitive to
the value of the rand, even more so than the price of oil.”  
 Crude oil averaged $78.89 a barrel in New York trading in
the quarter, up 82 percent from the previous year. The rand
strengthened 24 percent against the dollar to an average 7.51.  
 Oil prices may “bottom out” at about $70 in the “near
term,” Sasol said. The company’s shares declined 1 percent to
284.63 rand by 10:38 a.m. in Johannesburg trading.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        