-- SEC Set to Restrict Political Donations by Firms Seeking Pension Business
-- Jesse Westbrook
-- 2010-06-24T16:11:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/sec-set-to-restrict-political-donations-after-pension-pay-to-play-scandals.html

          
          
             U.S. regulators are poised to
restrict investment advisers from giving money to politicians to
win pension business in response to abuses in an industry that
oversees $2.4 trillion of public retirement funds.  
 Securities and Exchange Commission members will vote June
30 on rules aimed at preventing hedge funds and private-equity
firms from trying to influence public officials who award
pension contracts, the agency said in a statement on its website
today. Last year, the SEC proposed that investment firms be
barred from managing pension-fund assets for two years if their
executives gave money to a politician with sway over contracts.  
 The SEC and New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo  have
been probing state pension-fund corruption for more than a year.
Quadrangle Group LLC, the private-equity firm co-founded by
 Steven Rattner , agreed in April to pay $12 million to resolve
allegations it paid kickbacks to a New York political consultant
to win an investment from a state retirement fund.  
 Rules considered by the SEC last July would have barred use
of so-called placement agents, individuals and firms paid by
investment advisers to help them gain access to pension money.
The proposal followed allegations that New York officials
arranged for a fund to invest $5 billion with money managers who
paid political advisers associated with placement agents.  
 Credit-Suisse Group AG , in a September  letter  to the SEC,
said a ban would eliminate the “critical capital-formation
function” that brokerage firms provide as placement agents.  
 ‘Cost-Effective’ Competition  
 Senate Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd , a
Connecticut Democrat, said in a February letter to the SEC that
banning placement agents risked eliminating the only “cost-
effective way for smaller funds” to compete with bigger rivals
in winning contracts to manage pension-fund assets.  
 The SEC moved away from the ban in December when  Andrew Donohue , head of the agency’s division of investment management,
asked the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority whether it
could restrict brokerages from engaging in so-called pay-to-play
practices as an alternative.  
 Finra Chief Executive Officer  Richard Ketchum  responded in
March, telling Donohue that rules aimed at keeping securities
firms from engaging in “improper pay-to-play practices” are a
viable alternative “to a ban on certain private-placement
agents.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        