-- Securities Law's Reach Curbed by Supreme Court in Australia Holders' Suit
-- Greg Stohr
-- 2010-06-24T14:31:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/securities-law-s-reach-curbed-by-supreme-court-in-australia-holders-suit.html

          
          
             The U.S. Supreme Court limited
foreign investors’ ability to sue companies based abroad in
American courts, throwing out a shareholder lawsuit against
National Australia Bank Ltd.  
 The justices unanimously said federal securities laws don’t
reach allegations by three Australians who bought shares of
Melbourne-based NAB in that country. The Australians argued that
U.S. courts could consider the case because it centered on
alleged wrongdoing by a former U.S. subsidiary of the bank.  
 The decision might help  Vivendi SA  limit its damages in a
lawsuit that seeks more than $9 billion. A jury in January found
that Paris-based Vivendi misled investors 57 times from 2000 to
2002. Americans at the time held only 25 percent of Vivendi’s
ordinary shares, according to the company.  
 Vivendi,  Infineon Technologies AG ,  Alstom SA  and  European
Aeronautic Defense & Space Co.  all told the justices that the
NAB case might affect suits they are facing. Such cases are
known as foreign-cubed lawsuits because they involve non-U.S.
issuers, shareholders and transactions.  
 The investors in the Supreme Court case said HomeSide
Lending Inc., formerly a Florida-based mortgage-service
subsidiary of NAB, fraudulently overvalued its assets,
eventually forcing $2.2 billion in writedowns.  
 NAB disclosed in 2001 that interest-rate assumptions used
by HomeSide in a valuation model were incorrect and caused
inflated estimates of mortgage-servicing fees. Writedowns in
2001 caused the bank’s American depositary receipts to fall more
than 11 percent.  
 NAB acquired HomeSide in 1998, then sold it to  Washington
Mutual Inc.  in 2002.  
 The ruling upheld the decision of a federal appeals court
in New York. Justice  Sonia Sotomayor , who served on the 2nd U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals while it handled the case, didn’t take
part in today’s decision.  
 NAB argued that the alleged misstatements and omissions all
were made in Australia by the parent company.  
 The case is Morrison v. National Australia Bank, 08-1191.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        