-- Republicans Thwart Bill With Unemployment Aid, Buyout Tax Boost
-- Brian Faler
-- 2010-06-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/senate-republicans-block-u-s-jobless-aid-extension-buyout-manager-tax.html

          
          
             Senate Republicans yesterday killed
a bill to extend  unemployment benefits , provide aid to state
governments and raise taxes on buyout fund managers, saying the
measure would add too much to the federal  deficit .  
 Lawmakers  voted  57-41 in favor of the measure, with 60
votes needed to advance it. Democrats repeatedly cut the bill in
an effort to win backing from those who objected to its cost.
The latest version would have added $33 billion to the budget
shortfall, a fraction of previous proposals; Republicans said
the cost-cutting didn’t go far enough.  
 No Republican senators backed the measure; Senator  Ben Nelson  of Nebraska was the only Democrat to vote against it.  
 Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said that although
lawmakers will move on other matters, the chamber may revisit
the legislation -- central to the Democrats’ job agenda in an
election year -- if Republican support emerges. Democrats
control the Senate with 59 votes.  
 “We can’t pass it unless we get some Republicans” so
“it’s up to them,” Reid, a Nevada Democrat, told reporters.
“We have done everything that we could do to try to get the
Republican votes.”  
 Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said “Democrats simply refuse to pass a bill that
doesn’t add to the debt. That’s the principle that we’re really
fighting for in this debate.”  
 Lapsing Benefits  
 The impasse means  unemployment  benefits will be cut off to
more than 1 million people by the end of this week, according to
the U.S. Labor Department.  
 White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  said in a
statement that Senate Republicans “obstructed a common-sense
package that would save jobs, extend tax cuts for businesses and
provide relief for American families who have suffered through
the worst economic downfall since the Great Depression, even
after Democrats offered multiple compromises” to gain backing
for the bill.  
 The House yesterday approved on a 417-1 vote a separate
Senate-passed measure postponing a 21 percent cut in Medicare
payments to doctors until December. That provision was also part
of the larger Senate bill.  
 Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana
Democrat, said he didn’t know if lawmakers would try to pass an
unemployment benefit extension as a separate measure. The bill
derailed yesterday would have continued some extended jobless
benefits through November.  
 ‘Take Stock’  
 “We’ll have to take stock and see,” Baucus said. “I hope
frankly that enough people in the country realize what’s going
on here and call members of the Senate on the Republican side
and say, ‘Hey, we need some help here.’”  
 The legislation would have provided $16 billion in aid to
states and raised taxes on the share of profits paid to
executives of buyout firms.  Robert Stewart , a spokesman for the
Washington-based Private Equity Council, declined to comment on
the vote.  
 The bill would have extended municipal bond subsidies,
increased taxes on oil companies and extended a deadline to
close home purchases under the government’s first-time homebuyer
tax credit plan.  
 The measure also would have revived some business tax
breaks that expired Dec. 31. They include a widely used research
credit, and a tax break on income from some overseas financial
services used by companies such as  General Electric Co . Some tax
benefits for individuals also have lapsed, including deductions
for sales tax payments, teacher-paid classroom supplies and
subsidies for college tuition.  
 Multinational Firms  
 The legislation’s failure is a win for U.S.-based
multinational companies such as  International Business Machines 
Corp., which lobbied against proposals to increase taxes on
their international operations.  
 President  Barack Obama  earlier this month had urged
lawmakers to approve $50 billion in aid to states to help
prevent layoffs. Economist  Mark Zandi  has projected that without
additional aid states will have to fire 300,000 employees.  
 Lawmakers worked on the bill for more than a month. An
initial draft had been projected to add more than $130 billion
to the deficit.  
 Senator  Susan Collins , a Maine Republican whose support
Democrats had sought, said after yesterday’s vote that the bill
“is too expensive and I simply could not support it.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Democrat from Nevada, speaks after a meeting in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Democrat from Nevada, speaks after a meeting in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Douglas Elliott, a fellow at the Brookings Institution, talks about the outlook for legislation to overhaul U.S. financial regulation.
     Senate and House lawmakers negotiating the final parts of the bill have left two of the most far-reaching proposals for the last hours of talks, a ban on proprietary trading by banks and new oversight of the derivatives market. Elliott talks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
