-- For-Profit Colleges Need More Oversight, Senator Says
-- John Hechinger
-- 2010-06-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/senate-report-attacks-for-profit-college-tactics-quality-as-hearings-open.html

          
          
             For-profit colleges need tougher
oversight and regulation, according to a report from a
Democratic Senate committee chairman that questions the
industry’s advertising spending, tuition costs and reliance on
taxpayer money.  
 The criticism of higher education companies was made in a
17-page report from Senator  Tom Harkin , the Iowa Democrat who
chairs the U.S. Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions
Committee. The document, scheduled to be released today at a
hearing, was provided to Bloomberg News in advance by a person
close to the committee’s investigation.  
 The Senate oversight inquiry is part of the growing
scrutiny of for-profit educations companies, including  Apollo
Group Inc. ’s University of Phoenix,  ITT Educational Services Inc. 
and  Career Education Corp.  President  Barack Obama ’s
administration is proposing tougher regulation of the industry
because of concern that recruiters are signing up unqualified
students and leaving them with loans they may be unable to repay.  
 “The publicly available data, in tandem with mounting
reports of questionable practices and poor student outcome,
yield a mixed portrait of the for-profit higher education
industry that calls into question the taxpayers’ return on their
multibillion-dollar investment,” the report says.  
 Today’s hearing won’t give the public a fair view of for-
profit colleges because industry critics dominate the witness
list,  Harris Miller , president of the Career College Association,
said in an interview. The institutions generally provide high-
quality education to traditionally underserved groups, such as
low-income and minority students, he said.  
 ‘Good Return’  
 “When you consider all the facts, both taxpayers and
students are getting a very good return on their investment,”
said Miller, whose group represents more than 1,400 for-profit
colleges.  
 Senator  Michael Enzi  of Wyoming, the ranking Republican on
the committee, will defend “legitimate programs” in for-profit
education, Steve Wymer, a spokesman for the senator, said in an
e-mail. The sector is “an essential part of our efforts to
provide every American with the skills necessary to be a
valuable part of the workforce,” he said.  
 ITT Educational Services, based in Carmel, Indiana, fell
$1.17, or 1.3 percent, to $90.20 yesterday in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Apollo, based in Phoenix, declined
22 cents to $46.33 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading yesterday.
Career Education, based in Hoffman Estates, Illinois, gained 50
cents, or 1.9 percent, to $26.39.  
 Rising Enrollment  
 The number of students attending for-profit colleges rose
to 1.8 million in 2008, from 550,000 in 1998, according to
Harkin’s report. Federal aid to for-profit colleges has jumped
to $26.5 billion in 2009 from $4.6 billion in 2000, according to
the Education Department. The five largest publicly traded for-
profit companies received 77 percent of their revenue from
federal financial aid programs in 2009, up from 63 percent in
2002, the report said.  
 Harkin’s report said one unnamed company had 2009 operating
profit of $489 million on revenue of $1.3 billion, a 37 percent
operating  margin  -- almost double that of  Apple Inc.  ITT
reported those revenue and profit figures in securities filings.
ITT couldn’t be reached for comment.  
 Eight publicly traded companies -- those that break out
such data -- spent half their budgets on education, 31 percent
on recruiting and marketing and 15.7 percent on undefined
administrative expenses, Harkin’s report found.  
 Marketing Costs  
 At least one company spent more on marketing than on
education, the report said.  Bridgepoint Education  Inc., based in
San Diego, spent $145.7 million on marketing and promotional
expenses last year, compared with $120.1 million on
instructional costs and services, according to a  securities
filing.  Bridgepoint couldn’t be reached for comment.  
 For-profit colleges are more expensive than comparable non-
profit schools and leave students with heavier debts, the report
said. “Staggering” numbers of student leave for-profits each
year, presumably without degrees, according to Harkin’s report.
Default rates on government loans in the industry are also
higher than similar public and nonprofit institutions, the
report found.  
 The disparities reflect the lower socioeconomic background
of students, Miller said.  
 The hearing scheduled today will feature testimony from
 Steven Eisman , a hedge-fund manager whose bet against the
housing market was chronicled in a best-selling book. In his
written testimony, Eisman compares for-profit colleges with the
sellers of subprime mortgages. Both left customers with heavy
debts they can’t repay. Eisman is shorting, or betting against,
education stocks.  
 ‘Cusp’ of Disaster  
 “If nothing is done, then we are on the cusp of a new
social disaster,” Eisman said, according to a copy of his
prepared remarks.  
 The analogy between the two industries is “as silly as it
is simplistic” because degrees from for-profits benefit the
economy, and the institutions must provide value to protect
their reputations, the Career College Association’s Miller said
in a speech yesterday at the National Press Club in Washington.  
 Two other witnesses, Margaret Reiter, former supervising
California deputy attorney general and Department of Education
Inspector General Kathleen S. Tighe, will also be critical of
industry practices, according to their testimony.  
 Recruiters from Career Education’s Sanford-Brown Institute
in White Plains, New York, pressured former student Yasmine Issa
to enroll, then left her with $20,000 in debt and unable to find
a job as an ultrasound technician, the mother of two says in her
prepared testimony.  
 “It’s hard to find work without a marketable skill, but
going to Sanford-Brown to get one has left my family and me
worse off than if I had never gone back to school,” she said.  
 Career Education can’t discuss an individual student’s
experience because of privacy laws, spokesman Jeff Leshay said
in an interview. The comments expected at the hearing about
Career Education “don’t reflect a full understanding and
appreciation for the quality of education we provide,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hechinger  in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Wetenhall, analyst with RBC Capital Markets, talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton about the oversight of for-profit colleges. 
     For-profit colleges need tougher oversight, according to a report from a Democratic Senate committee chairman that questions the industry’s advertising spending, tuition costs and reliance on taxpayer dollars. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
