-- Senators Retain Volcker Rule With Hedge Fund Leeway
-- Alison Vekshin
-- 2010-06-24T23:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/senators-to-offer-plan-to-strengthen-language-on-proprietary-trading-ban.html

          
          
             Senate negotiators offered changes
to the regulatory-overhaul bill that would strengthen part of
the language banning proprietary trading at U.S. banks while
giving them leeway to invest in private-equity and hedge funds.  
 The changes proposed today target language in the Senate
bill that implements the Volcker rule, named after former
Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker  and proposed by President
 Barack Obama  in January.  
 “We think this proposal addresses the underlying concern
of putting depository funds at risk through risky activities and
puts a stop to proprietary trading, but also recognizes there
are legitimate hedging activities that banks need to engage
in,” Senate Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd , a
Connecticut Democrat who offered the changes and is leading the
negotiations for the Senate, said today in a meeting of
negotiators.  
 The proposal Dodd outlined would limit a bank’s investment
in private-equity or hedge funds to 3 percent of a fund’s
capital. Total investment in private-equity and hedge funds
wouldn’t be able to exceed 3 percent of a company’s tangible
common equity.  
 The change softens language in the bill the Senate approved
last month, which would have barred banks, their affiliates and
holding companies from sponsoring or investing in private-equity
or hedge funds.  
 Conflicts  
 Dodd said his proposal incorporates a change offered by
Democratic Senators  Jeff Merkley  of Oregon and  Carl Levin  of
Michigan that “more clearly defines the limits on proprietary
trading.”  
 Merkley and Levin proposed writing the ban on proprietary
trading into the legislation, replacing language in the Senate
bill that would allow regulators to write rules implementing the
ban after a study.  
 In addition, Dodd proposed adding language based on the
Merkley-Levin proposal to curb conflicts of interest by
preventing firms that underwrite an asset-backed security from
placing bets against the security.  
 The conflict-of-interest provision is aimed at addressing
the fraudulent activity alleged in the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s lawsuit against  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The SEC is
alleging the bank created and sold collateralized debt
obligations linked to subprime mortgages without disclosing that
hedge fund Paulson & Co. helped pick the underlying securities
and bet against the vehicles.  
 State Street  
 The proposal to allow a small investment in private-equity
and hedge funds is aimed at retaining support from Massachusetts
Senator  Scott Brown , one of four Republicans to vote for the
Senate bill last month. At least 60 senators will have to
approve the bill again before it can be sent to Obama.  
 Brown has been pressing for changes in language of the
Volcker rule to benefit Boston-based State Street Corp., people
familiar with the bank’s argument said.  
 State Street and Bank of New York Mellon Corp. have been
lobbying for modifications in the bill. The two banks are
concerned that their asset-management activities would be
curtailed, since many of their funds could be considered hedge
funds although they don’t engage in risky bets, people familiar
with the banks’ arguments said.  
 Senate negotiators will debate the proposal and offer
amendments before they approve it and send it to their House
counterparts for their consideration.  
 House Financial Services Committee Chairman  Barney Frank , a
Massachusetts Democrat who is leading the talks, has said House
negotiators will follow the Senate’s lead on the Volcker rule.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in Washington at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Senator Christopher Dodd speaks during a news conference in Washington, in March. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Former U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Arthur Levitt talks with Bloomberg's Betty Liu about legislation overhauling the financial regulatory system.
     Levitt also discusses the bill's treatment of municipal bond investors and Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Levitt, an adviser to the Carlyle Group and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., is a board member of Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Douglas Elliott, a fellow at the Brookings Institution, talks about the outlook for legislation to overhaul U.S. financial regulation.
     Senate and House lawmakers negotiating the final parts of the bill have left two of the most far-reaching proposals for the last hours of talks, a ban on proprietary trading by banks and new oversight of the derivatives market. Elliott talks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
