-- Siemens `Optimistic' of Posting Record Profit This Year, CEO Loescher Says
-- Richard Weiss
-- 2010-06-24T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/siemens-optimistic-of-posting-record-profit-this-year-ceo-loescher-says.html

          
          
               Siemens AG , Europe’s largest
engineering company, is confident profit will rise to a record
this year and will seek to maintain the momentum with a new
efficiency program, according to Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher .  
 “I am extremely optimistic we will reach our financial
 goals  and will post a record profit,” Loescher said at an event
for journalists in Munich last night. Siemens’ current quarter
is going well and its performance is “robust,” he said.  
 New goals for returns on capital will be unveiled in
November, the CEO said.  
 Siemens predicts sector profit, a measure for  operating
profit  at the main industrial, energy, and health-care units,
will top the 7.5 billion euros ($9.3 billion) posted in the
fiscal year ended September. The German maker of turbines,
trains and health scanners is benefitting from a purge on costs
and job cuts as demand for light bulbs and factory-automation
equipment rebounds.  
 Growth will also be a main focus of the new program, as
opposed to the current efficiency drive that is designed to
improve operating profit margins, Loescher said. Siemens has
eliminated more than 10,000 jobs, consolidated factories and
stripped back administrative costs. Costs dropped by 2 billion
euros last year, exceeding targets.  
 While Siemens plans no company-wide job cuts, it’s making
good progress in negotiations with employee representatives to
carve out the computer-services division SIS, the CEO said.
Management is seeking to cut 4,200 jobs at the unit and its
carve out is now scheduled for October, three months later than
initially planned.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oliver Suess  in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        