-- Skilling, Black Get Partial Victories From Court
-- Greg Stohr
-- 2010-06-24T18:54:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/skilling-black-get-partial-victories-at-u-s-high-court-over-convictions.html

          
          
             The  U.S. Supreme Court  scaled back a
favorite tool used by prosecutors in fraud cases, ruling in
favor of  Jeffrey Skilling  on his conviction for leading the
 Enron Corp.  accounting fraud while stopping short of granting
him a new trial.  
 The court also  sided  with former Hollinger International
Inc. Chairman  Conrad Black , telling a lower court to reconsider
his corporate fraud conviction. The ruling doesn’t necessarily
mean freedom for either man, instead sending the cases back to
the lower court level.  
 Skilling’s lawyers say the ruling gives them grounds to
seek reversal of the entire conviction, along with his 24-year
sentence. The government has said even the conspiracy verdict
that was directly before the high court might not have to be
overturned.  
 “We’re back in the game,”  Daniel Petrocelli , Skilling’s
lead lawyer, said in a telephone interview. He said today’s
ruling would be “fatal to the government’s case.”  
 Tracy Schmaler , a Justice Department spokeswoman, said in
an e-mailed statement that the government will “vigorously
defend the Skilling and Black cases on remand” to the lower
court.  
 Black was convicted of mail fraud and obstruction of
justice and sentenced to 6 1/2 years in prison. As with
Skilling, his lawyers will have a chance to seek invalidation of
the entire verdict, while the government can argue that the
entire conviction should stand.  
 Intangible Right  
 Writing for the court, Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  said the
law, which covers fraud schemes to “deprive another of the
intangible right to honest services,” could be used only in
cases involving bribery or kickbacks. The ruling raises
questions about potentially hundreds of other convictions and
pending prosecutions.  
 “There are going be a lot of people who serve less time or
don’t go to prison because of this decision,” said  Andrew Stoltmann , a Chicago lawyer who represents investors with claims
against financial companies.  
 The justices were unanimous in saying the honest-services
law couldn’t be applied to Skilling and Black. Three justices --
 Antonin Scalia ,  Clarence Thomas  and  Anthony Kennedy  -- would
have gone further and struck down the law even for bribery and
kickback cases.  
 Ruling With Nuance  
 The ruling “has nuance” and should leave federal
prosecutors “breathing a sigh of relief,” said Douglas Berman,
a professor at Ohio State University’s Moritz College of Law.
Even so, he said, the ruling may apply retroactively and will
let people with enough money challenge their convictions.  
 Schmaler said the Justice Department, while disappointed
the court narrowed the statute, is “pleased that the court
upheld many of the core provisions that have been used for
decades to prosecute corrupt public officials and corporate
executives who have breached their duties to their constituents,
clients and investors.”  
 Skilling, Enron’s former chief executive officer, was
convicted on 19 counts. The honest-services ruling directly
concerns only one of those: for conspiracy to commit fraud.  
 He was convicted in May 2006 alongside  Kenneth Lay , the
former Enron chairman who died less than two months later. A
federal appeals court upheld the conviction. Skilling is serving
his sentence in a federal prison in Colorado.  
 Seeking Fair Trial  
 The Supreme Court on a 6-3 vote rejected Skilling’s
contentions that he couldn’t get a fair trial in Houston and
that the trial judge who oversaw the case didn’t adequately
explore indications that some jurors were biased against him.  
 Skilling’s lawyers argued that the atmosphere in Houston
when the trial began in January 2006 was one of hostility toward
him, fed by unrelenting, negative media coverage.  
 The federal government countered that the trial judge,
after questioning the jurors, was satisfied that each could
assess the evidence impartially. The high court today agreed
with that reasoning.  
 Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, joined
a brief filed by media companies urging the court not to adopt
the legal standard sought by Skilling. The brief argued that
press coverage alone shouldn’t be grounds for transfer of a
trial.  
 Largest Energy Trader  
 Enron was the world’s biggest energy-trading company, with
a market value of as much as $68 billion, before it collapsed,
wiping out more than 5,000 jobs and $1 billion in employee
retirement funds.  
 The bankruptcy spawned criminal charges against 34
defendants, including Arthur Andersen LLP, the now-defunct
accounting firm whose conviction the Supreme Court overturned in
2005.  
 Black, 65, was accused of taking part in a $6.1 million
theft from Hollinger, a Chicago-based newspaper publishing
company. The case centers on payments to Black that were
structured to reduce his Canadian taxes. A U.S. appeals court
upheld the conviction.  
 Chief Financial Officer  John A. Boultbee  and former
Corporate Counsel  Mark S. Kipnis  joined Black in pressing the
Supreme Court appeal. Boultbee was sentenced to two years and
three months in prison and Kipnis, convicted of a lesser
offense, to six months of home detention.  
 The honest-services statute is being used against former
Illinois Governor  Rod Blagojevich , now on trial on an indictment
that includes allegations that he tried to trade the U.S. Senate
seat vacated by President  Barack Obama  for campaign cash or
personal favors.  
 U.S. District Judge  James Zagel , presiding over
Blagojevich’s trial, said the high court ruling “may not offer
a lot of hope” for the former governor, the Associated Press
reported.  
 The case is Skilling v. United States, 08-1394.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Former Enron executive Jeffrey Skilling. Photographer: F. Carter Smith/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
