-- SocGen, Vivendi, Massey, Rajaratnam, BP, BDO, Adelson, AIG in Court News
-- Elizabeth Amon
-- 2010-06-24T12:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/socgen-vivendi-massey-rajaratnam-bp-bdo-adelson-aig-in-court-news.html

          
          
             The U.S. appealed a federal judge’s
June 22 order lifting a moratorium on deepwater oil drilling
that was imposed after the  BP Plc  spill in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 U.S. District Judge Martin Feldman in New Orleans said the
drilling ban, issued in the wake of the explosion and sinking of
the Deepwater Horizon oil rig, was overly broad and ordered
federal regulators not to enforce it. The U.S. appealed that
decision yesterday, according to a one-sentence notice of appeal
filed in the district court.  
 The government also asked Feldman to put his order on hold
while it appeals the decision, or alternatively, to issue a
temporary stay until the U.S. Court of Appeals resolves its
request for an emergency stay.  
 Interior Secretary Kenneth Salazar, in addition to
appealing the court’s decision, “will undertake a process to
issue a new suspension decision,” the U.S. said in court papers
filed with the request for a stay. This would reflect
“information learned since the original decision” and provide
“further explanation of the need for a pause in deepwater
drilling operations,” according to the filing.  
 A stay pending appeal “would maintain the legal status
quo,” the U.S. said. It would also “further serve the public
interest by eliminating the risk of another drilling accident
while new safety equipment standards and procedures are
considered,“ the government said.  
 The U.S. said it would comply with Feldman’s order lifting
the ban, while waiting for a stay or reversal.  
 President Barack Obama temporarily halted all drilling in
waters deeper than 500 feet on May 27 to give a presidential
commission time to study improvements in the safety of offshore
operations.  
 Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc.  and other offshore service
and supply companies on June 7 sued Salazar and the head of the
 Minerals Management Service , along with that agency and the
Interior Department, asking the court to lift the ban. Hornbeck
and the other companies argued they would suffer irreparable
economic harm from the suspension in drilling.  
 The case is Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar,
2:10-cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans). The Transocean subpoena case is In Re.
The Complaint and Petition of Triton Asset Leasing GmbH, 4:10-
cv-01721, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas
(Houston). The investor suit is Jerry D. Goodwin v. Anadarko
Petroleum, 10-CV-4905, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 Trials/Appeals  
 SocGen Asks Court to Make Kerviel Pay for Bank Trading Loss  
 Societe Generale SA  asked a French court to order Jerome
Kerviel to pay it the 4.9 billion euros ($6 billion) the bank
lost in January 2008 unwinding 50 billion euros in unauthorized
positions the former trader had taken.  
 “This is the story of a liar, it is the story of a
faker,” Jean Veil, a lawyer for Societe Generale, told the
court yesterday during the bank’s closing statement to judges.
Kerviel “played like the bank was a casino.”  
 Kerviel, 33, is on trial for abuse of trust, faking
documents and hacking into the bank computers, creating fake
hedges to mask the trades. He argued his superiors condoned his
actions, lifting trading limits and “turning a blind eye” to
questions. His actions were “professional mistakes,” not
criminal offences, he said in a final statement June 22.  
 Societe Generale, based in Paris, has victim status at the
criminal trial that allows it to seek damages. In France,
criminal trials precede civil claims and an acquittal would
block any possible civil lawsuits.  
 Kerviel faces as many as five years in jail and a criminal
fine of 375,000 euros if found guilty.  
 For more, click here.  
 Lehman Releases Barclays Interviews in ‘Windfall’ Recovery Bid  
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. published 18 interviews with
witnesses including  Barclays Plc  lawyers and executives in a bid
to recover an $11 billion “windfall” allegedly collected by
the U.K. bank when it bought the defunct firm’s brokerage.  
 Witnesses include Edward Rosen of Cleary Gottlieb Steen 
Hamilton, Barclays’s law firm for the brokerage deal, Mike
Keegan, a Barclays trading executive, and Paolo Tonucci,
Lehman’s former treasurer who is now with Barclays. The
depositions were published yesterday on the Web site of the U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan, where Lehman and the brokerage
trustee are due to finish making their case against Barclays on
Friday.  
 Lehman, which wants money to pay off creditors, has accused
the U.K.’s third-biggest bank of conspiring with former Lehman
executives to get an undisclosed discount on the deal. The
brokerage’s trustee has said changes were secretly inserted in
the sale contract without telling him or Lehman’s lawyers,
including a late alteration allocating $4 billion in margin
accounts to Barclays.  
 Rosen testified that handwritten notes of the late changes
were shown to “the Lehman side.” While he didn’t speak to any
Lehman representative and didn’t know which lawyer received the
changes, Cleary “did not control the documents,” he said in
his February deposition.  
 “Those changes were put into whatever revised draft
emerged” from Lehman’s lawyers, Rosen told a lawyer for the
trustee.  
 Trustee James Giddens seeks $6.7 billion from Barclays to
pay hedge funds and other institutional clients. Barclays has
said it owes Lehman nothing and has demanded from Giddens $3
billion, which it says he is withholding.  
 Barclays is due to make its case in late August and
September.  
 Lehman, which spent $794 million on lawyers, advisers and
managers in 19 months through April, has said it will spend five
years selling assets to pay unsecured creditors as little as
14.7 cents on the dollar.  
 The cases are In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-
13555, and James W. Giddens v. Barclays Capital Inc., 09-01732,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 Vivendi Prosecutor Says Messier, Bronfman Charges Lack Evidence  
 Criminal charges against former Vivendi SA executives
including Edgar Bronfman Jr. and Jean-Marie Messier are without
grounds, the prosecutor assigned to the case told a Paris court.  
 Evidence doesn’t strongly suggest the two men, or their
five co-defendants, broke securities laws during a $77 billion
acquisition spree at the media company, prosecutor Chantal de
Leiris said. De Leiris recommended against prosecuting them,
before being overruled by investigating judge Jean-Marie d’Huy.  
 Vivendi is a civil plaintiff in the Paris case, along with
more than 200 investors who complain they were duped by overly
positive communications from the company. The prosecutor de
Leiris said the statements during the period at issue turned out
to be too positive because of “poor knowledge of market
conditions,” rather than deception by Messier.  
 The exercise of stock options by Bronfman, the former vice-
chairman, and ex-Chief Financial Officer Guillaume Hannezo
shortly before a January 2002 share sale by the company “were
not motivated by privileged information,” de Leiris said.
Investors were aware “that a strong possibility of a sale
existed,” she said.  
 All the defendants deny wrongdoing. Messier and Hannezo
weren’t deemed personally liable for misleading investors in the
New York suit.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  
 New Suits  
 Anadarko Sued by Investors Over Drilling Statements  
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. , the Texas oil company that owns
25 percent of the damaged well pouring crude into the Gulf of
Mexico, was sued by investors who said the company made false
statements about drilling safety.  
 The proposed class-action, or group suit, filed yesterday
in federal court in New York, alleges Anadarko misled investors
about the safety of the Deepwater Horizon joint venture with  BP
Plc  and as a result, investors lost money on news that the well
couldn’t be capped. The rig exploded on April 20, killing 11
workers and  injuring 17 others.  
 The plaintiffs allege that on June 1, after news reports
about the failure to cap the well, shares fell about 20 percent
in a day, and another 20 percent on June 9, on news that the
company would be responsible for more than $1 billion in cleanup
costs.  
 “In the wake of this tragedy, defendants continued to
issue materially false and misleading statements representing
the company would likely incur only approximately $177.5 million
in liability,” the plaintiffs said. “However, these statements
were materially false and misleading.”  
 John Christiansen, a spokesman for The Woodlands, Texas-
based Anadarko, said in an e-mail that the company believes the
suit “is without merit.”  
 The plaintiff, Anadarko shareholder Jerry D. Goodwin,
seeks to represent a class of hundreds of thousands of Anadarko
shareholders whose shares dropped in value from June 12, 2009,
through June 9, 2010. The plaintiffs also allege that the
venture’s oil spill response was a “complete sham” and that
Anadarko knowingly undertook the joint venture despite the
“terrible safety record” of BP.  
 The suit is Jerry D. Goodwin v. Anadarko Petroleum, 10-CV-
4905, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Massey Units Sue Mine Regulator Over Ventilation  
 Massey Energy Co. , owner of the West Virginia mine where 29
people were killed in April, sued the  U.S. Mine Safety and
Health Administration , saying the agency rejected ventilation
methods that would have benefited underground workers.  
 In a lawsuit made public yesterday in federal court in
Washington, six Massey units ask a judge to rule that defendants
including the  U.S. Labor Department  lack the authority to
dictate how to ventilate mines. Such decisions are better left
to mining companies, the units said.  
 “We hope the principal beneficiary will be miners, who
will have cleaner air, safer mines, and more secure jobs,” Don
Blankenship, chief executive officer of Richmond, Virginia-based
Massey, said in a statement.  
 The April 5 explosion was the worst U.S. coal mining
accident in 40 years. The Labor Department said in a preliminary
report to President Barack Obama in April that most mine blasts
of that magnitude are sparked by accumulations of methane,
combustible coal dust and air.  
 Massey has said that the Labor Department’s Mine Safety and
Health Administration forced it to install a complex ventilation
system in the so-called longwall area, where the miners were
working when the explosion occurred, months before the accident.  
 Amy Louviere, a spokeswoman for the Mine Safety and Health
Administration, said in an e-mailed message that the agency
doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  
 The case is Elk Run Coal Co. v. U.S. Department of Labor,
10-cv-01056, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  
 Lawsuits/Pretrial  
 Stockman Reveals Reputations Don’t Return When Prosecutors Walk  
 When David Pinkerton’s lawyer called to say that the U.S.
prosecutors who had charged the former  American International
Group Inc.  managing director with bribery had dropped the case,
the relief was so great that Pinkerton broke down and cried.  
 David Stockman, a former  U.S. budget director , lived under
the shadow of a fraud indictment for two years before
prosecutors dropped the charges without explanation or apology.  
 Stockman and Pinkerton are among a growing number of
executives who have been indicted for  corporate crimes  in recent
years and then had the charges dropped, David Glovin reports in
Bloomberg Markets’ August 2010 issue.  
 From 2006 to 2008, the most recent period available, U.S.
prosecutors dismissed charges against 42 such defendants for
which the most serious charge was securities fraud. That’s more
than twice the 20 dismissals in the prior three years, according
to the  Federal Justice Statistics Resource Center .  
 The collapse of so many cases is surprising, legal experts
say, because U.S. prosecutors are expected to have thoroughly
investigated the facts and law before asking a grand jury to
bring charges.  
 At least five indictments were returned -- and then dropped
-- by the  U.S. Attorney’s Office in Manhattan , which oversees
Wall Street.  
 “This strikes me as very unusual,” says Duke University
law professor Samuel Buell, a former prosecutor who brought
fraud cases stemming from the collapse of  Enron Corp . “These
are some of the best prosecutors in the Justice Department.”  
 The increasing number of dismissals may signify that the
transactions in some corporate cases have become so intricate
that even top prosecutors have trouble mastering them, Buell
says.  
 The phenomenon may become more widespread as investigators
sift through the wreckage of the global financial crisis.
Criminal investigators have probed  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc ., which filed for bankruptcy in 2008; Countrywide Financial
Corp., which  Bank of America Corp.  acquired that year; and AIG,
which got $182 billion in the U.S. bailout, according to people
familiar with the probes.  
 To read more, click here.  
 Rajaratnam, Chiesi Seek Order for Details of Charges  
 Raj Rajaratnam and Danielle S. Chiesi, co-defendants in the
biggest hedge-fund insider-trading case, sought to force
prosecutors to give them separate trials and more information
about the charges they face.  
 The pair appeared yesterday before U.S. District Judge
Richard J. Holwell in New York where Rajaratnam’s lawyer Robert
H. Hotz urged the judge to compel prosecutors to disclose
details of alleged insider trades in 31 stocks.  
 “It’s been heralded as the biggest insider trading case in
history, but we don’t have the trades,” Hotz said.  
 Rajaratnam, co-founder of New York-based Galleon Group, is
accused of using secret tips from hedge-fund executives
including Chiesi, corporate officials and other insiders to earn
millions of dollars in illegal stock trades. The allegations
involve trading shares in 12 companies, including  Intel Corp. ,
 International Business Machines Corp. ,  Akamai Technologies Inc. ,
 Google Inc.  and  Advanced Micro Devices Inc.   
 Rajaratnam, 53, and Chiesi, 44, are among more than 20
people accused since October in two overlapping criminal and
civil insider-trading cases. Rajaratnam and Chiesi are scheduled
to be tried Oct. 25.  
 The judge didn’t say when he will rule on the defense
requests. He also said he will wait to rule on a request by
Rajaratnam’s lawyers to postpone the Oct. 25 trial date.  
 The criminal case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-1184, and
the civil case is SEC v. Galleon Management LP, 09-cv-08811,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 Stanford Will Be Tried Alone, Without Fraud Case Co-Defendants  
 R. Allen Stanford will face a federal jury alone on charges
he swindled investors of more than $7 billion, and his alleged
co-conspirators can be tried later, a judge ruled.  
 The Texas financier is in jail in Houston awaiting trial on
21 criminal charges he defrauded more than 20,000 investors
through allegedly bogus certificates of deposit at Antigua-based
Stanford International Bank Ltd.  
 U.S. District Judge David Hittner in Houston ruled
yesterday that Stanford’s trial will go forward in January as
previously set. In a three-paragraph order, Hittner granted a
request by three former Stanford executives also charged in the
scheme that they be tried separately from their former boss.  
 Laura Pendergest-Holt, the former chief investment officer
of the Houston-based Stanford Financial Group of companies,
“very much wanted to be tried on her own conduct,” her
attorney, Dan Cogdell, said in a phone interview.  
 Pendergest-Holt made the request after Stanford repeatedly
changed defense attorneys and engaged in conduct Cogdell
described in a June 9 filing as “egregious and circus-like.”
Stanford’s former accounting chief Gil Lopez and global
controller Mark Kuhrt joined Pendergest-Holt’s request for a
separate trial. In yesterday’s order, Hittner said the three
colleagues will be tried together sometime after Stanford’s
trial concludes.  
 “This decision by the court was expected, and we will
welcome an opportunity to show that R. Allen Stanford is
innocent as charged,” his lawyer, Robert Bennett of Houston,
said in an e-mailed statement.  
 The criminal case against Stanford and the other defendants
is U.S. v. Stanford, H-09-342, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Texas (Houston). The civil case is SEC v. Stanford
International Bank, 3:09-cv-00298-N, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  
 Toyota Must Tell Dealers to Keep Evidence, Judge Says  
 Toyota Motor Corp.  must direct its dealers to preserve
documents related to allegations of sudden acceleration, a judge
overseeing federal lawsuits ruled.  
 The company has to order the preservation of material held
by Lexus and Toyota dealers because such evidence could be
relevant to hundreds of lawsuits, U.S. District Judge James V.
Selna in Santa Ana, California, said yesterday at a hearing.
Selna is overseeing all federal suits against the automaker over
sudden-acceleration claims.  
 Toyota lawyers told the judge that the company doesn’t have
direct control over dealerships, particularly those that don’t
file documents electronically, and that it couldn’t enforce such
an order.  
 Brian Lyons, a Toyota spokesman, didn’t return a call for
comment after the ruling.  
 Toyota, the world’s largest  automaker , faces more than 300
federal and state lawsuits including proposed class actions over
economic losses and claims of personal injuries or deaths caused
by sudden-acceleration incidents. The federal  lawsuits  in April
were combined before Selna in a multidistrict litigation, or
MDL.  
 The company, based in Toyota City, Japan, has recalled more
than 8 million vehicles for repaired related to sudden,
unintended acceleration. In September the automaker announced a
recall of 3.8 million Toyota and Lexus vehicles because of a
defect that may cause floor mats to jam accelerator pedals. The
company later recalled vehicles over defects involving the
pedals themselves.  
 The cases are combined as In re Toyota Motor Corp.
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  
 Adelson Ready to Settle Casino Dispute With Law Group  
 Las Vegas Sands Corp.  Chairman Sheldon Adelson said his
Singapore casino is ready to settle “any day they want” with
the lawyers’ group that accused it of using their conference to
hasten its gaming license.  
 “We much rather make love than war,” Adelson said in a
Bloomberg Television interview in Singapore. “We tried to
settle with them; they didn’t want to and were quite
unreasonable.”  
 Marina Bay Sands sued the lawyers after they withheld
payment for the first conference it hosted. IPBA 2010 Pte, on
behalf of the Inter-Pacific Bar Association conference,
countersued for misrepresenting a “complete disaster” as a
world-class venue. Sands used the attendance of Singapore
Minister Mentor Lee Kuan Yew at the event to speed up its casino
and occupation permits, according to the IPBA lawsuit.  
 “People should know that there will be little glitches in
an opening of a new property,” said Adelson, 77, who was in
Singapore for the grand opening of the casino resort yesterday.
“They couldn’t stand even one glitch.”  
 Delegates at the conference complained of unfinished rooms,
power failures, closed facilities and lost luggage, and the Bar
Association’s annual general meeting discussed an
“unprecedented” motion empowering it to sue Sands, according
to IPBA’s lawsuit.  
 Marina Bay Sands executive George Tanajisevich met IPBA
President Lee Suet Fern once after the conference and didn’t
make any settlement offer, the IPBA organizing committee said.  
 The case is Marina Bay Sands Pte Ltd. v. IPBA 2010
Singapore Pte Ltd. S348/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  
 Verdicts/Settlements  
 BDO Seidman’s $521.7 Million Penalty Reversed  
 BDO Seidman LLP won’t have to pay Portuguese client  Banco
Espirito Santo SA  $521.7 million for failing to detect a fraud,
a Florida appeals court ruled in reversing a 2007 jury award and
ordering a new trial.  
 The state Third District Court of Appeal in Miami yesterday
decided the case should be tried again because of possible jury
confusion in a three-part trial over four months in Miami-Dade
County Circuit Court.  
 The trial’s so-called trifurcation “impermissibly allowed
the jury to render a verdict” on gross negligence two months
before it considered issues including causation and comparative
fault, possibly prejudicing jurors, the three-judge appeals
panel decided.  
 The verdict was the second-largest U.S. jury award in 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Banco Espirito sued BDO
Seidman in 2004, claiming it suffered a loss when the New York-
based accounting firm certified as real fake accounts
receivables at E.S. Bankest LLC.  
 “We have consistently stated that we were confident that
the jury’s erroneous verdict in this case would be reversed,”
Jack Weisbaum, BDO Seidman’s chief executive officer, said in an
e-mailed statement. “We will prove that BDO acted at all times
consistent with its professional obligations and that its audit
opinions were based on the proper application of generally
accepted auditing standards.”  
 “This case has been sent back for another trial because of
the procedural ‘bifurcation’ issue,” Steven W. Thomas, an
attorney for Banco Espirito, said in an e-mailed statement. “We
specifically note that the court did not dispute BDO unethical
conflicts of interest or its negligence. The evidence of BDO
Seidman’s failures of even the most basic auditing procedures is
so overwhelming that we expect a new jury will reach the same
conclusion as the original jury.”  
 The case is Banco Espirito Santo International Ltd. v. BDO
Seidman LLP, 04-14009-CA-01, 11th Judicial Circuit of Florida
(Miami-Dade County). The appeal is 3D09-324, 07-2746 BS 07-2472,
Third District Court of Appeal (Miami).  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  
 Litigation Departments  
 New York Aims to Lead Investor Litigation on BP Spill  
 New York Comptroller Thomas P. DiNapoli, trustee of the
$132.6 billion  State Common Retirement Fund , said he hired a law
firm to represent the fund in a class-action investor lawsuit
against BP Plc.  
 The state fund will seek lead-plaintiff status in an action
stemming from the Deepwater Horizon explosion and oil spill in
the Gulf of Mexico in April, DiNapoli said yesterday in a
statement. He said the fund held more than 19 million shares of
BP at the time. He retained the law firm Cohen Milstein Sellers
 Toll PLLC, the comptroller said.  
 “BP misled investors about its safety procedures and its
ability to respond to events like the ongoing oil spill, and
we’re going to hold it accountable,” DiNapoli said in the
statement.  
 Four actions are pending against BP, one in California and
three in Louisiana, Robert Whalen, a spokesman for the
comptroller, said in a telephone interview. DiNapoli believes
the suits will be consolidated at some point and wants Cohen
Milstein to manage the litigation on the state’s behalf, Whalen
said.  
 For more, click here.  
 Mayer Brown Litigation Co-Head Goes to BuckleySandler  
 BuckleySandler LLP , a 90-attorney law firm in Washington,
hired David S. Krakoff, the former co-leader of the litigation
practice at  Mayer Brown LLP .  
 Krakoff and another former  Mayer Brown  partner, Christopher
Regan, are joining as partners and will specialize in financial-
services enforcement, BuckleySandler said yesterday in a
statement.  
 “From the day we started the new firm in March 2009, our
intention was to have a full-service financial-services
boutique,” Andrew Sandler, BuckleySandler’s co-chairman, said
in a telephone interview. “This completes the enforcement side
of our practice.”  
 BuckleySandler was formed by the merger of Buckley Kolar
LLP and a group of 15 lawyers led by Sandler, a former partner
at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher  Flom LLP.  
 BuckleySandler handles commercial litigation, regulatory
and enforcement work for banks, credit-card companies, mortgage
issuers and mortgage servicers. Clients include Wells Fargo 
Co., Citigroup Inc. and American Express Co., Sandler said.  
 For the latest litigation department news, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        