-- Forward Contracts in South Africa Show Best Chance of Rate Cut in 2 Months
-- Garth Theunissen
-- 2010-06-24T12:58:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/south-africa-forward-contracts-show-best-chance-of-rate-cut-in-two-months.html

          
          
             South African traders are increasing
bets that the central bank will cut interest rates two months
after policy makers damped speculation of further reductions.  
 Forward-rate agreements for cash in three months are
trading at 6.405 percent, less than four basis points above the
6 1/2-year low reached on April 21. The central bank may lower
its  benchmark rate  by 50 basis points this year, according to
Investec Asset Management and Deutsche Bank AG analysts.  
 Slowing inflation in Africa’s biggest economy allowed
policy makers to decrease the  benchmark rate  by 50 basis points
on March 25 to 6.5 percent, the lowest since the repurchase rate
was introduced in 1999. More reductions depend on “markedly”
lower-than-forecast economic growth or a “sustained”
appreciation of the rand, central bank Governor  Gill Marcus  said
at a conference on April 22, adding that the repurchase rate is
likely to remain unchanged for some time.  
 “The governor has indicated she would be uncomfortable
with cutting rates during an economic upswing but there’s no
doubt that the market has been gradually pricing in the
probability of another 50 basis-point reduction this year,”
said  Andre Roux , the Cape Town-based head of fixed income at
Investec, which oversees about $70 billion. “Inflation has been
surprisingly benign, which coupled with a relatively strong rand
and tepid economic data could mean the monetary policy committee
might have to rethink things.”  
 Three-month forward-rate agreements , or FRAs, were 25 basis
points below the three-month benchmark  Johannesburg interbank
agreed rate  on June 21, the  widest  gap since April 21. The
difference was 22.5 basis points today while the so-called
three-month JIBAR rate was 6.63 percent, as of 2:20 p.m. in
Johannesburg.  
 Worst Unemployment  
 The central bank has reduced its key rate seven times since
December 2008.  
 Inflation  eased to a four-year low of 4.6 percent in May
helped by the rand’s 25 percent rally against the dollar since
the start of last year and an improved corn crop that made the
staple food more affordable. The central bank targets an
inflation rate between 3 and 6 percent.  
 Even as the economy expanded 4.6 percent, South Africa lost
79,000 jobs in the first quarter, according to a government
report on June 22, threatening to worsen the highest
unemployment rate of 62 countries tracked by Bloomberg.  
 “The jobless nature of the recovery is a big threat to
social stability,” said  Ian Cruickshanks , head of treasury
research at Nedbank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg. “We might just
see another rate cut, although the market seems to be pricing
for a September cut rather than next month.”  
 Trade Unions  
 The  Congress of South African Trade Unions , which has 2
million members, is pushing for lower rates to help tackle
unemployment. The Congress wants a rate reduction of “at least
1 percentage point and preferably more” on July 22 when policy
makers are next scheduled to meet, spokesman  Patrick Craven  said
in a telephone interview yesterday.  
 “South Africa is in the midst of a profound economic
crisis and we need a significant cut in interest rates to
stimulate the economy and promote job creation,” Craven said.
“Unemployment is the biggest threat facing our economy. We
can’t understand why the reserve bank is so intent on targeting
inflation at the expense of jobs and growth.”  
 Policy makers should consider economic growth and
employment when setting rates, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan 
said in a letter to Marcus on Feb. 16.  
 South Africa may leave the rate unchanged when it next
meets on July 22 to gauge how Europe’s debt crisis may affect
the rand and establish whether increased spending during the
soccer World Cup will boost inflation, said Trevor Barsdorf, an
analyst at  Econometrix Treasury Management , a bond and foreign
exchange consultancy in Johannesburg. The rate may instead be
lowered at the following meeting on Sept. 9, said Barsdorf.  
 World Cup  
 “The Reserve Bank will want to see how the World Cup
impacts on inflation,” said Barsdorf. “They will want to see
if inflation keeps trending lower and whether the rand continues
to hold up.”  
 The window to lower the rate further may be closing as
workers push for higher pay and electricity costs surge, though
there’s time for another rate reduction, according to Deutsche
Bank AG. Workers at Transnet Ltd., the state-owned rail and
ports company, won an 11 percent pay increase following an 18-
day strike last month. Power utility Eskom Holdings Ltd. is
currently in talks with workers, offering to raise wages by 8
percent, while workers are demanding 15 percent.  
 “There’s definitely a chance of another rate cut,” said
 Angus Halkett , a fixed-income analyst at Deutsche Bank in
London. “They’ll cut by 50 basis points in July.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     South African's central bank Governor Gill Marcus. Source: South African Government via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
