-- South Korea to `Normalize' Accommodative Policy as Growth Forecast Raised
-- Eunkyung Seo
-- 2010-06-24T06:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/south-korea-to-normalize-accommodative-policy-as-growth-forecast-raised.html

          
          
             South Korea will “normalize” its
accommodative policies and take pre-emptive steps against
inflation as the economy is set to grow faster than previously
forecast amid a global rebound, the Finance Ministry said.  
 The ministry raised its  economic growth  forecast for this
year to 5.8 percent from the 5 percent projected in December,
saying the faster-than-expected global recovery has spurred
exports and domestic demand. Local consumption and corporate
investment will expand 4.6 percent and 15.6 percent,
respectively, and  exports  will grow 25 percent, it said.  
 “The economy may be able to achieve better than” the
government’s growth projection this year, Finance Minister  Yoon Jeung Hyun  told reporters in Gwacheon today, responding to a
question on whether it was being too optimistic. The figure will
be achieved “unless unexpected variables come out,” he said.  
 The country’s economic revival and accelerating inflation
are putting pressure on the Bank of Korea to join  Malaysia  and
India in boosting borrowing costs and raise its benchmark
interest rate from a record-low 2 percent. Government officials
have signaled a shift in their stance in recent days after being
outspoken this year in stating it was too early to raise rates.  
 Investors boosted their bets for a rate increase as early
as July. The one-year treasury bond yield jumped 26 basis points
since June 9 to 3.3 percent yesterday, the highest close since
March 3, before retreating 1 basis point today, according to
data compiled by the Korea Financial Investment Association.  
 Full Start of Exit  
 The Bank of Korea reduced the funds it makes available for
loans to smaller companies for the first time in three years, as
it moves to drain excess liquidity supplied during the global
financial crisis.  
 Governor  Kim Choong Soo  and his board cut the ceiling on
special loans to commercial banks by 1.5 trillion won ($1.27
billion) to 8.5 trillion won starting July, the central bank
said today in a statement.  
 “The cut heralds the full start of the exit in the
monetary policy area,” said  Park Sang Hyun , an economist at HI
Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul. “Interest rates may rise
sooner than expected as the government admits they cannot keep
rates well below inflation for so long and with such a strong
economic outlook.”  
 Macroeconomic policy, both for fiscal and monetary policy,
should be normalized in such a “gradual manner” so as not to
damp the recent economic recovery trend, Yoon Jong Won, director
general of the economic policy bureau at the Finance Ministry,
told reporters in Gwacheon in an embargoed briefing yesterday.  
 Shift in Policy  
 The government’s recent shift in policy about exit
strategies and recent calls by many economists to increase
borrowing costs reflect South Korea’s resilience so far to
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis, which has raised concerns that
spending cuts by countries seeking to reduce their budget
deficits would hurt the region’s demand for Asian exports.  
 South Korea’s exports surged a revised 40.5 percent last
month as the global economic recovery boosted demand for Korean
made-products like  Samsung Electronics Co. ’s semiconductors and
 Hyundai Motor Co. ’s cars. The economic rebound pulled
 unemployment  down to a 19-month low in May.  
 Gross domestic product  grew 2.1 percent in the first
quarter from the previous three months, a June 4 report showed,
compared with an April estimate of 1.8 percent.  
 “Our economic growth outlook is rather conservative,”
Yoon Jong Won said yesterday. “We have to take pre-emptive
steps to prevent inflation pressures from building up. Otherwise,
it could be a problem for the economy.”  
 ‘Price Stability’  
 Governor Kim said June 10 policy makers will focus more on
“price stability” after keeping rates unchanged at 2 percent
for a 16th month. Increasing borrowing costs early could help
anchor inflation expectations, the Paris-based Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development said in a report last week.  
 Consumer prices  rose 2.7 percent in May, accelerating from
a 2.6 percent gain a month earlier, as the cost of food and oil
increased. The central bank is targeting an inflation rate of
between 2 percent and 4 percent on average for the three years
to 2012.  
 The Finance Ministry projects a 2.9 percent increase in
consumer prices for 2010 and said inflation may accelerate to
above 3.5 percent by October, exceeding the central bank’s
target of 3 percent.  
 The ministry said that the economy will be able to add
300,000 jobs this year, more than its previous projection of
250,000 jobs, after shedding 72,000 last year. The annual
 jobless rate  will be 3.7 percent, it said. The reading dropped
to 3.2 percent in May, the lowest level since October 2008.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        