-- Soybean Meal Exports From India May Slump 34% on Prices, Association Says
-- Thomas Kutty Abraham
-- 2010-06-24T07:56:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/soybean-meal-exports-from-india-may-slump-34-on-prices-association-says.html

          
          
             Soybean meal  supplies from India,
Asia’s biggest exporter, will drop as much as 34 percent this
year as a surge in local seed prices prompts buyers to shift to
South America and the U.S., a processors’ group said.  
 Shipments in the year to Sept. 30 may fall to 2.1 million
metric tons from 3.2 million tons a year earlier, said  Rajesh Agrawal , coordinator for the Soybean Processors’ Association of
India, in a phone interview from Indore today. Exports in June
may exceed the 60,228 tons shipped in May as farmers increased
bean sales after prices recovered, he said.  
 Reduced supplies from India may help stem a 14 percent
decline in Chicago feed prices and allow the U.S., Brazil and
Argentina to boost shipments to buyers in Vietnam, Japan, South
Korea and Indonesia.  
 “We are hoping exports will pick up in the coming months
with some stability seen in Chicago prices,” Agrawal said.
Achieving exports of 2.5 million tons will be “tough,” he said.  
 India, the top vegetable oils user after China, has yet to
crush more 2 million tons of soybeans after duty-free imports of
edible oils and lower animal feed prices made it unprofitable,
Agrawal said. Soybean meal, India’s largest oilseed meal export,
is added to poultry feed as a form of protein.  
 Soybean meal for December delivery rose as much as 0.7
percent to $263.30 a ton in Chicago today. The commodity has
advanced in eight out of the past 10 sessions. July-delivery
soybean futures on the National Commodity & Derivatives Exchange
Ltd. in Mumbai fell as much as 0.3 percent to 1,905 rupees per
100 kilograms. The commodity gained 26 percent last year.  
 Meal Exports  
 Soybean meal exports slumped 41 percent to 1.62 million
tons in the eight months through May from a year earlier as
buyers from Vietnam, Thailand and Indonesia switched to supplies
from Latin America and the U.S.  
 The area planted to soybean may drop 5 percent to 7 percent
this year as farmers in the states of Madhya Pradesh and
Maharashtra, the biggest growers, grow more profitable crops
such as cotton, sugar cane and lentils, Agrawal said.  
 “Farmers are getting a much higher price than normal for
the seeds and that should prevent large-scale diversion,” he
said.  
 An early start to planting in Madhya Pradesh was delayed
after monsoon rains stalled in the past week, he said.  
 India’s monsoon, the main source of irrigation for the
nation’s 235 million farmers, is 11 percent below average this
season, slowing early sowing of soybeans and rice in the biggest
growing regions, the  India Meteorological Department  said on its
website today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        