-- Soybeans May Rebound to $9.80 on Demand From China, Phillip Futures Says
-- Claire Leow
-- 2010-06-24T11:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/soybeans-may-rebound-to-9-80-on-demand-from-china-phillip-futures-says.html

          
          
             Soybean futures may rally to $9.80 a
bushel by the end of July on increasing Chinese demand, Phillip
Futures said in an e-mailed report.  
 “China’s voracious appetite for foreign soybeans is
anticipated to increase as imports are more economical compared
with domestic supplies,” the report said. “A stronger yuan is
likely to widen the gap in profitability between crushing
foreign and domestic crop.”  
 Soybeans for November delivery in Chicago traded at $9.26 a
bushel at 5:31 p.m. Singapore time. The most-active contract has
fallen 12 percent this year. January-delivery soybeans in Dalian
closed at 3,859 yuan ($568) a ton, down 4.4 percent this year.
That translates into $15.45 a bushel.  
 China is the largest consumer of soybeans, ahead of the
U.S., which is also the largest producer. The Asian nation’s
move on June 19 to allow more flexibility in its currency led to
the biggest increase in the yuan in half a decade this week.  
 The country lifted purchases of the oilseed in the past two
weeks to between 17 and 25 cargoes, or as much as 1.5 million
metric tons, as crushers expect processing  margins  to improve,
according to a range of estimates from three executives familiar
with the trade.  
 The cargoes were sourced mostly from Latin America except
for two from the U.S. Pacific Northwest, they said today. Most
shipments will be from July to September, with a few in October
and November, said the people who declined to be identified as
the transactions are private. Chinese buyers had curbed buying
in recent weeks as port inventories surged, they said. Each
cargo weighs about 60,000 tons.  
 On June 22,  Scott Briggs , agricultural commodities
strategist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said
soybean futures  may rally to $10 a bushel within the next two
weeks on “short-term tightness” and speculative covering.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Claire Leow  in Singapore at 
 cleow@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        