-- Summers Says 65% Gain in Corporate Profits Proves Obama Not Anti-Business
-- Ryan J. Donmoyer
-- 2010-06-24T16:22:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/summers-says-65-gain-in-corporate-profits-proves-obama-not-anti-business.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama ’s policies
have contributed to a 65 percent increase in corporate profits
since 2008, White House economic adviser  Lawrence Summers  said,
rejecting complaints that the administration is anti-business.  
 “A 65 percent  increase  in profits over two years is not
what you expect from a business-hostile set of policies,”
Summers, who heads the National Economic Council, said in a
Reuters Insider interview conducted by the news agency in
Washington.  
 Ivan Seidenberg , chief executive officer of  Verizon
Communications Inc ., said in a June 22 speech that the
administration’s policies, including higher taxes, were hurting
companies’ ability to innovate and invest.  
 “We have become somewhat troubled by a growing disconnect
between Washington and the business community,” Seidenberg,
who’s also chairman of the Business Roundtable, said in the
speech to the Economic Club of Washington. “We see a host of
laws, regulations and other policies being enacted that impose
a government prescription on how individual industries ought to
be structured.”  
 Summers today defended the administration’s handling of
the Troubled Asset Relief Program and the decision in the first
weeks of the new administration in 2009 to enact a stimulus
plan, the full effect of which he said has yet to trickle into
the economy.  
 He also praised legislation to overhaul the financial
services industry, which congressional negotiators say they
will complete this week, as a way to protect consumers and
ensure that banks don’t become “too big to fail” but rather
“too sound to fail.”  
 Global Economy  
 A year ago, Summers said there were valid concerns about a
global economic depression. Today, he said, “those prospects
look much more remote.”  
 He praised the emergence of the Group of 20 nations as a
global “central forum” that has become “a very important
change in the international architecture” since the financial
crisis. He cited G-20 pressure for helping elicit an
announcement by the Chinese government that it would begin to
revalue its currency.  
 Summers said the Obama administration has followed a
philosophy of intervening in the markets only to alleviate
uncertainty about how “unchecked” private markets would
behave in times of crisis.  
 He said the administration still backs a tax on banks like
the one proposed in its budget. Such a tax would need to be
“coordinated” with policies of other countries yet wouldn’t
necessarily be “harmonized” with them. Identical policies
“wouldn’t be our approach,” he said.  
 Unemployment Benefits  
 Summers called on Congress to enact an extension of
unemployment benefits and health-insurance subsidies for
jobless workers who have exhausted their relief. Those benefits
expired May 31; the Senate has been unable to clear procedural
hurdles necessary to vote on the measure over concerns about
higher taxes on venture capitalists and the impact the bill
would have on budget deficits.  
 He called congressional inaction “inappropriately harsh
at a time when people are hurting” and said Congress had a
“missed opportunity to promote recovery.”  
 He said discussion about long-term deficits must be a part
of a larger debate about balancing the nation’s fiscal
challenges. Equal attention, he said, should be put on policies
that promote economic growth in the United States and elsewhere
in the world.  
 Comparing managing the economy to driving a car, he said
he had never seen a car driven successfully with feet on both
the brake and the accelerator.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Lawrence "Larry" Summers, director of the White House's National Economic Council. Photographer: Joshua Roberts  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
