-- Surprise Drop In Mexican Prices Curbs Inflation to Lowest Since December
-- Jonathan J. Levin
-- 2010-06-24T16:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/surprise-drop-in-mexican-prices-curbs-inflation-to-lowest-since-december.html

          
          
             Mexico’s  consumer prices  fell in the
first half of June, surprising analysts who had predicted they
would rise as economic growth accelerates. Annual inflation
slowed to the lowest level since December.  
 Prices declined 0.04 percent in the first half of June, the
central bank said today. Economists forecast they would rise
0.15 percent, according to the  median estimate  of 15 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 The decrease was caused by companies putting soft drinks on
sale for the World Cup, vegetable prices falling, and the
government’s delay to an increase to gasoline prices, said
 Gabriel Casillas , chief Mexico economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
in Mexico City.  
 “Inflation has behaved very well,” said Casillas, who had
expected a 0.04 percent increase in prices, the most accurate
forecast in the Bloomberg survey. “This just supports our view
that the bank won’t raise rates for a very long period of
time.”  
 Mexico’s central bank will raise borrowing costs in March
2011, according to the median estimate of analysts in a survey
released June 21 by  Citigroup Inc. ’s Banamex unit. Casillas
forecasts the bank won’t raise rates until the fourth quarter of
next year.  
 The peso weakened 0.2 percent to 12.6724 per U.S. dollar at
12:09 p.m. New York time. The yield on Mexico’s 10 percent peso
bond due in 2024 fell five basis point, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 7.24 percent, according to Banco Santander SA.  
 Interest Rate Decision  
 The central bank kept its  benchmark interest rate  unchanged
at 4.50 percent for the tenth straight meeting last week, saying
domestic demand remains weak.  
 Banco de Mexico cut the benchmark rate by 3.75 percentage
points last year amid the global financial crisis.  
 Monthly core inflation, which excludes some food and energy
prices, was 0.03 percent in the first half of June, less than
the 0.15 percent median estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  
 Annual inflation slowed to 3.72 percent through the first
half of June, the lowest level since December, when it was 3.57
percent.  
 Inflation slowed in the first half of June because the
economy has yet to fully recover from last year’s recession,
said  Ricardo Aguilar , an economist at Invex Casa de Bolsa in
Mexico City.  
 ‘Modest Growth’  
 “The low inflation is responding to a more modest growth
in the economy,” Aguilar said.  
 Latin America’s second-biggest economy is recovering from a
6.5 percent contraction last year, the biggest slump since 1932.
The central bank forecasts growth of 4 percent to 5 percent this
year.  
 Gross domestic product grew 4.3 percent in the first three
months of the year compared with the same period a year earlier,
exceeding analysts’ forecasts.  
 Mexico’s industrial production rose 6.1 percent in April
from a year earlier, the statistics agency reported June 11.  
 Mexican production of cars and light trucks rose 65 percent
in May from the same month a year earlier, the nation’s
Automobile Industry Association reported June 14.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net 
 Jonathan J. Levin  in Mexico City at 
 Jlevin20@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        