-- Swan Offers Fiscal Continuity as Labor Lawyer Becomes Australia's Leader
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-06-24T04:49:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/swan-offers-fiscal-continuity-as-labor-lawyer-becomes-australia-s-leader.html

          
          
             Wayne Swan ’s continued role as
treasurer in Australia’s government, and his appointment as
deputy prime minister, signals the country’s new administration
will avoid any immediate shift in fiscal policy.  
 Swan will serve as deputy to  Julia Gillard , who today took
over from outgoing Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  as head of
Australia’s ruling Labor Party. While Gillard said in a press
conference that she’s open to changing a proposed super tax on
miners, she echoed Swan’s pledge from last month that the
government is seeking a budget surplus by 2013.  
 The ascension of Gillard, a former industrial lawyer,
comes days ahead of a Group of 20 summit where leaders are set
to discuss how quickly to tighten budgets in the aftermath of
the European fiscal crisis. Swan, who will represent Australia
at the meeting, committed in the annual budget proposal in May
to capping spending growth until a surplus is achieved.  
 “She’s going to be mindful that a key element of what
Labor needs to do going into the election is cement their
economic credentials,” said  Su-Lin Ong , a senior economist and
fixed-income strategist at RBC Capital Markets Ltd. in Sydney.
“It’s no coincidence today that she reaffirmed her commitment
to delivering the budget into surplus.”  
 A general election is due by April, and Gillard said she
would call one in coming months.  
 Budget Outlook  
 Ong said that Gillard’s background, including serving as
minister for employment and fighting against cuts in education
spending, raises “the immediate question ‘is there pressure on
the budget?’” Swan, who has served as treasurer since the
Labor government took office in November 2007, offers
“continuity” for  investors , she said.  
 Swan will fly from Australia tomorrow to attend the June
26-27 summit in Toronto, Matthew Coghlan, a spokesman for the
treasurer in Canberra, said in a telephone interview. The G-20
include the largest developed and emerging-market economies.  
 Rudd, who was scheduled to go to the G-20 talks, stood
down as leader of the ruling Labor party as support mounted in
his party for Gillard to succeed him. Swan said this week that
some G-20 countries face the “huge task” of reducing debt
while grappling with double-digit unemployment rates and weak
growth.  
 Public support for Rudd had eroded in part after a
campaign by the mining industry to oppose a profits tax on
their industry proposed to take effect in 2012. The 40 percent
levy was designed to pay for infrastructure spending and
business tax reductions that would benefit the broader
Australian economy.  
 Mining Tax  
 Gillard today said that while the Australian people
deserve a “fairer share of the mineral wealth,” the
government is open to negotiating the tax with the companies.
She also said resources firms should come to the talks with an
“open” mind.  
 BHP Billiton Ltd.  , the world’s biggest mining company,
 Rio Tinto Group , the No. 3 mine operator, and Xstrata Plc, the
top exporter of coal used at power stations, have opposed the
measure.  
 “Expect little change on economic policy, but a softened
stance on proposed mining super-tax,” Standard Chartered Plc
analysts including Singapore-based  Callum Henderson  wrote in a
note today on the incoming Gillard government.  
 The G-20 accounts for about 85 percent of global gross
domestic product. Its members are Argentina, Australia, Brazil,
Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan,
South Korea, Mexico, Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Turkey,
the U.S., the U.K. and the European Union.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        