-- U.K. Needs a `Meaningful Carbon Price' for Investors, Energy Minister Says
-- Kari Lundgren
-- 2010-06-24T09:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/u-k-needs-a-meaningful-carbon-price-for-investors-energy-minister-says.html

          
          
             The U.K. needs a “meaningful carbon
price” to underpin investment in cleaner energy, the Cabinet
minister in charge of energy said.  
 Substantial investment in nuclear power and systems that
capture and carbon-dioxide emissions won’t “happen quickly
enough unless we strengthen the incentives,”  Chris Huhne , head
of the Department of Energy and Climate Change, said in a speech
today. “The current price of carbon is simply not doing this.
It is not yet driving our economy towards the green technologies
of the future anywhere near quickly enough.”  
 Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s administration is
considering a minimum price for CO2 emissions when the cost of
European Union permits falls below a certain level. That would
raise costs for power from plants fired by coal and natural gas
which are cheaper and quicker to build than atomic reactors.  
 Huhne’s comments build the case for imposing a floor price
for carbon. The government plans to set out its proposals to
“support the carbon price” later in 2010, Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  said in his budget on June 22.  
 Huhne, a Liberal Democrat in the coalition led by
Conservative David Cameron, said the government will promote the
country’s first new nuclear reactors since the 1980s “so long
as there is no public subsidy.”  
 “We will learn from past mistakes, streamlining planning,
dealing with waste, reprocessing and decommissioning,” he said
in the speech in London.  
 Huhne reiterated his suggestion that the EU should raise
its goal for cutting carbon emissions, currently 20 percent from
1990 levels. The EU hasn’t moved yet, citing a lack of similar
action in other nations.  
 “It is simply not true that others are doing nothing, as
some have argued,” Huhne said. “Even as we continue to seek a
legally binding global agreement, there is rapid action in China
and Japan. Even in the United States, where prospects of early
cap and trade legislation are slim, the administration is
planning on pushing business hard through the Environmental
Protection Agency.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rachel Graham  in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net ;
 Kari Lundgren  in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        