-- Lawmakers Tackle Volcker, Swaps Rules as the Final Regulatory Bill Emerges
-- Phil Mattingly
-- 2010-06-24T15:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/u-s-lawmakers-tackle-volcker-swaps-rules-as-final-financial-bill-emerges.html

          
          
             Senate and House lawmakers
negotiating the final parts of the financial-regulatory bill
have left two of the most far-reaching proposals for the last
hours of talks -- a ban on proprietary trading by banks and new
oversight of the derivatives market.  
 The ban on proprietary trading, nicknamed the Volcker rule
after former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , and the
derivatives measure have been the main targets of banking
lobbyists as the bill nears completion. Negotiators plan to
complete final changes today as lawmakers race to get
legislation on President  Barack Obama’s  desk by July 4.  
 “Everything is in play right now as I’m trying to pull
this together,” Senator  Christopher Dodd , the Connecticut
Democrat leading his chamber’s side in the talks, said of the
Volcker rule.  
 The House and Senate conferees remained undecided yesterday
over a requirement that commercial banks push out their swaps-
trading operations, part of the derivatives language written by
Senator  Blanche Lincoln , an Arkansas Democrat. The rule, which
would require banks such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Citigroup
Inc.  to move their trading desks to subsidiaries, also is
opposed by regulators and lawmakers from both parties.  
 A group of House Democrats, having voiced concerns over the
proposal in writing last week, made clear yesterday that they
would consider withholding support for the final bill if the
provision is not changed.  
 New Democrats  
 House Financial Services Committee Chairman  Barney Frank 
told Lincoln, at a meeting also attended by Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada and House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  of
California, that the lawmakers led by the moderate New Democrat
Coalition were insisting that the swaps-desk language be
modified, according to two Senate aides briefed on the meeting.  
 Lincoln and her supporters have said the measure is needed
to insulate taxpayers from risky behavior by financial firms.
Opponents have said the rule would send business to foreign
banks and hamper the ability of U.S. companies to hedge risks.  
 Swaps and other derivatives are financial instruments based
on the value of another security or benchmark. Some instruments,
including contracts that insured mortgage-backed bonds, have
been blamed for fueling a financial crisis that led to the worst
recession since the Great Depression.  
 Proposal ‘Doesn’t Work’  
 Another swaps provision to be decided today would require
dealers to act as a fiduciary in trades with states or other
municipalities. Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat, said yesterday
that he thought the proposed measure “doesn’t work very well,”
particularly in how it pertains to market makers.  
 On the Volcker measure, lawmakers were awaiting proposed
changes to the Senate language that would ban U.S. banks from
proprietary trading and bar them from investing in or sponsoring
hedge funds and private-equity funds.  
 Dodd may propose incorporating aspects of a proposal from
Democratic Senators  Jeff Merkley  of Oregon and  Carl Levin  of
Michigan. The two senators want to strengthen the language to
eliminate what they consider wiggle room that could allow
regulators to change or eliminate the ban later.  
 In addition, Dodd may offer to add Merkley-Levin language
to curb conflicts of interest by preventing companies that
underwrite asset-backed securities from placing bets against
them. The proposal aims to address the fraudulent activity
alleged in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s lawsuit
against  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The SEC claims the bank created
and sold collateralized debt obligations linked to subprime
mortgages without disclosing that hedge fund Paulson & Co.
helped pick the underlying securities and bet against them.  
 More Than Expected  
 The 43-member conference committee is merging the financial
bill the House approved in December with the Senate version
passed last month to produce a single measure for Obama to sign
into law. The bill would be the biggest overhaul of financial
regulation since the 1930s.  
 “It is much more than anyone thought we could get,
including me,” Frank said.  
 Negotiators made progress on several fronts yesterday. They
agreed to changes in language introduced by Senator  Susan Collins , a Maine Republican, that would prohibit banks from
counting trust-preferred securities as Tier 1 capital.  
 U.S. banks with less than $15 billion in assets would be
permitted to count their existing trust preferreds, though not
new securities, as Tier 1 capital. Banks with more than $15
billion would have five years to sell the securities, known as
TruPS, under an agreement reached today.  
 House negotiators gave up on their proposal to add a $150
billion fund supported through fees on the financial industry to
pay for the government’s liquidation of failing financial firms.
They included a caveat in their offer to the Senate that would
require the government to come up with a plan to recoup from the
industry any federal funds spent dissolving a company.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in Washington at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;
 Phil Mattingly  in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        