-- U.S. Request to Delay Lifting of Drilling Ban Denied
-- Margaret Cronin Fisk
-- 2010-06-25T09:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/u-s-request-to-delay-lifting-of-deepwater-drilling-ban-is-denied-by-judge.html

          
          
             A federal judge denied the U.S.
government’s request to delay an order that allows deepwater oil
drilling to resume while the U.S. notified an appeals court it
would challenge the decision lifting the six-month moratorium.  
 U.S. District Judge  Martin Feldman  in New Orleans yesterday
refused to stay his June 22 order lifting a moratorium imposed
by President  Barack Obama  in reaction to the worst oil spill in
U.S. history. The government said it would appeal and asked
Feldman to put his order on hold.  
 “The defendants’ motion to stay pending appeal is hereby
denied for the same reasons given in this court’s June 22, 2010,
order granting the plaintiffs’ motion for preliminary
injunction,” Feldman wrote in yesterday’s ruling. The judge
said in the earlier decision that the ban was too broad and
would cause irreparable harm to offshore-oil service companies.  
 Charles Miller , spokesman for the U.S. Justice Department,
declined to comment on yesterday’s ruling.  
 The government yesterday filed a notice with Court of
Appeals in New Orleans saying defendants including  Kenneth Salazar , secretary of the Interior, “hereby appeal.”  
 Obama temporarily halted all drilling in waters deeper than
500 feet on May 27 to give a presidential commission time to
study improvements in the safety of offshore operations.  
 Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc.  and more than a dozen
Louisiana offshore service and supply companies sued U.S.
regulators to lift the ban, arguing they would suffer
irreparable economic harm from the suspension in drilling.  
 Public Safety  
 The moratorium on deepwater drilling ordered in the wake of
the  BP Plc  oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico is essential to
ensure public safety, the U.S. said in court papers on June 16.
The U.S. said further investigation is needed before the ban can
be lifted.  
 Feldman granted a preliminary order lifting the moratorium
and barring federal regulators from enforcing their restrictions
on deepwater drilling.  
 Government lawyers told Feldman the ban was based on
findings in a U.S. report following the sinking of the Deepwater
Horizon rig, owned by  Transocean Ltd. , off the Louisiana coast.  
 Feldman said the six-month ban was too far-reaching a
response to its investigation.  
 “The court is unable to divine or fathom a relationship
between the findings and the immense scope of the moratorium,”
Feldman said in his 22-page decision. “The blanket moratorium,
with no parameters, seems to assume that because one rig failed
and although no one yet fully knows why, all companies and rigs
drilling new wells over 500 feet also universally present an
imminent danger.”  
 New Moratorium  
 Salazar said June 22 that the U.S. would issue a new
moratorium governing deepwater drilling in the Gulf.  
 “The decision to impose a moratorium on deepwater drilling
was and is the right decision,” he said in a statement. “I
will issue a new order in the coming days that eliminates any
doubt that a moratorium is needed, appropriate, and within our
authorities.”  
 Hornbeck and the other companies filed a motion on June 23
seeking immediate enforcement of Feldman’s order, contending
Salazar’s statements, including comments before a Senate
committee, showed the U.S. didn’t intend to lift the ban.  
 The U.S. wasn’t attempting or intending to continue the ban
in defiance of Feldman’s order, the government said in court
papers. Salazar had already notified Interior Department
employees “that they are not to take any action to enforce the
moratorium,” the U.S. said.  
 No Immediate Enforcement  
 Feldman yesterday denied the plaintiffs’ request for
immediate enforcement, calling the motion premature.  
 Todd Hornbeck , chairman and chief executive officer of
Hornbeck Offshore, didn’t return a call seeking comment, and  Ken Dennard , the company’s investor relations chief, declined to
comment.  
 “The state of Louisiana is glad the judge maintained the
injunction and didn’t re-impose the moratorium,” said Henry
Dart, special counsel to the Louisiana Attorney General’s
office.  
 Dart, who had urged Feldman to reject the drilling
moratorium during a June 21 hearing in the case, said the
appeals court could take the government’s case on an emergency
basis. “It’s sure to be high on their radar,” he said in a
phone interview.  
 Environmental Groups  
 Catherine Wannamaker, a attorney with the Southern
Environmental Law Center, which is representing five
environmental groups that intervened in support of the drilling
ban, said she is “disappointed but not surprised” by Feldman’s
ruling.  
 “He made his reasoning on the preliminary injunction
clear, and the factors are the same on consideration of a
stay,” she said in a phone interview.  
 Defenders of Wildlife, Sierra Club, Florida Wildlife
Federation, Center for Biological Diversity and Natural
Resources Defense Council filed a notice yesterday that they are
also appealing Feldman’s ruling lifting the ban.  
 The judge yesterday granted a motion by environmental
groups seeking disclosure of his financial interests. The groups
said in court papers that Feldman’s 2008 disclosure forms showed
investments in oil and gas-related companies.  
 Feldman’s current investments aren’t known, as his 2009
disclosure forms aren’t yet publicly available. He previously
determined in other lawsuits involving the oil spill that his
investments didn’t disqualify him from involvement.  
 The judge’s most current financial disclosure report “will
be released by the Administrative Office of the United States
Courts as soon as their security protocol on the release of
federal judges’ financial disclosure reports has been
satisfied,” he said in yesterday’s order.  
 The case is Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar,
2:10-cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans), and the appeal is 10-30585, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- A federal judge has denied a request by the U.S. government to delay an order that deepwater drilling should resume, according to records in New Orleans federal court. Meanwhile, BP Plc has reinstalled a device on its Gulf of Mexico well to capture leaking oil after an underwater accident yesterday. Bloomberg's Lizzie O'Leary reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
