-- U.S. Durables Orders Indicate Manufacturing Boost to Recovery
-- Timothy R. Homan
-- 2010-06-24T13:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/u-s-durable-goods-orders-minus-transportation-rose-0-9-in-may.html

          
          
             Orders for durable goods  excluding
transportation  rose in May for the third time in four months,
indicating U.S. manufacturing will help maintain the recovery.  
 The 0.9 percent increase in bookings for goods meant to last
at least three years, excluding autos and aircraft, followed a
0.8 percent decrease in April, figures from the Commerce
Department showed today in Washington. Total  orders  dropped for
the first time in six months as demand for planes retreated.  
 A pickup in business spending on new equipment in the U.S.
and abroad has benefited companies like Caterpillar Inc. as
orders rise and factories spearhead the expansion. Consumer
spending, which makes up 70 percent of the economy, is still
being limited by unemployment, underscoring the Federal Reserve’s
view the recovery is “moderate.”  
 “Profit growth has been very strong, and that’s giving
firms both the means and incentive to invest,” said Dean Maki,
chief U.S. economist at Barclays Capital Inc. in New York.
Manufacturing “is really powering the recovery at this time.”  
 The number of Americans filing for  jobless benefits  declined
last week from a two-month high, pointing to improvement in the
labor market that’s taking time to develop. Claims fell by 19,000
to 457,000, the Labor Department said today.  
 Stock-index futures trimmed losses after the reports and
Treasury securities rose. Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index expiring in September fell 0.5 percent to 1,081.8 at 9 a.m.
in New York. The 10-year Treasury note rose, pushing down the
yield to 3.08 percent from 3.12 percent late yesterday.  
 Economists’ Forecasts  
 Economists forecast orders for durable goods excluding
transportation to rise 1 percent after a previously reported
April decrease of 1.1 percent. Bookings for all items were
forecast to decline 1.4 percent after a previously reported gain
of 2.8 percent in April, according to the median of 76
projections in a Bloomberg News survey. Estimates ranged from a
drop of 4.5 percent to a 1.2 percent advance.  
 Commercial aircraft orders, which are volatile, plunged 30
percent after surging 216 percent in April. Boeing Co., the
world’s second-biggest commercial-plane maker, said this month it
received 5 aircraft orders in May, compared with 34 in April and
43 in March. Industry data don’t always correlate with the
government’s statistics on a month-to-month basis.  
 Bookings for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft, a
proxy for future business investment, increased 2.1 percent in
May after falling 2.7 percent the prior month. Over the past
three months, these orders climbed at a 29 percent annual pace,
up from 21 percent in April, signaling companies are ramping up
investment.  
 Capital Goods Sales  
 Shipments of those items, used in calculating gross domestic
product, increased 1.6 percent after no change in April.  
 Demand in May increased for computers and related products,
primary metals and machinery, today’s report showed.  
 Orders excluding defense equipment decreased 1.1 percent,
the first decline in the last nine months. Bookings for military
capital goods fell 3 percent.  
 The Fed yesterday restated a pledge to keep its key interest
rate close to zero, where it’s been since December 2008, to
maintain the recovery. In their statement accompanying the
decision, central bankers said the “economic recovery is
proceeding and that the labor market is improving gradually.”
Household spending is “constrained by high unemployment.”  
 Debt Crisis  
 U.S. factories face the risk that Europe’s debt crisis will
slow export growth at the same time a stronger dollar makes
American goods less competitive. U.S.  exports  fell 0.7 percent in
April after jumping 3.8 percent the previous month, the Commerce
Department reported June 10.  
 Some companies are forecasting increased sales as the global
economy recovers.  Caterpillar , the world’s largest maker of
construction equipment, will see revenue rise 25 percent this
year on surging demand for equipment from the mining and energy
industries in developing nations, Chief Executive Officer James
Owens said this week.  
 “We’re coming back very strongly after the recession,”
Owens told reporters after a conference in Lima. “We’ll see
growth in oil, gas and coal because we need energy for these
rapid-growth emerging countries that are driving the need for
commodities.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction equipment, will see revenue rise 25 percent this year according to CEO James Owens. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
