-- U.S. Appeals Order Lifting Deepwater Drilling Ban
-- Laurel Brubaker Calkins
-- 2010-06-24T04:44:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/u-s-appeals-judge-s-order-lifting-six-month-deepwater-drilling-moratorium.html

          
          
             The U.S. appealed a federal judge’s
June 22 order lifting a moratorium on deepwater oil drilling
that was imposed after the  BP Plc  spill in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 U.S. District Judge  Martin Feldman  in New Orleans said the
drilling ban, issued in the wake of the explosion and sinking of
the Deepwater Horizon oil rig, was overly broad and ordered
federal regulators not to enforce it. The U.S. appealed that
decision yesterday, according to a one-sentence notice of appeal
filed in the district court.  
 The government also asked Feldman to put his order on hold
while it appeals the decision, or alternatively, to issue a
temporary stay until the U.S. Court of Appeals resolves its
request for an emergency stay.  
 Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar , in addition to
appealing the court’s decision, “will undertake a process to
issue a new suspension decision,” the U.S. said in court papers
filed with the request for a stay. This would reflect
“information learned since the original decision” and provide
“further explanation of the need for a pause in deepwater
drilling operations,” according to the filing.  
 A stay pending appeal “would maintain the legal status
quo,” the U.S. said. It would also “further serve the public
interest by eliminating the risk of another drilling accident
while new safety equipment standards and procedures are
considered,“ the government said.  
 The U.S. said it would comply with Feldman’s order lifting
the ban, while waiting for a stay or reversal.  
 Obama’s Order  
 President  Barack Obama  temporarily halted all drilling in
waters deeper than 500 feet on May 27 to give a presidential
commission time to study improvements in the safety of offshore
operations.  
 Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc.  and other offshore service
and supply companies on June 7 sued Salazar and the head of the
 Minerals Management Service , along with that agency and the
Interior Department, asking the court to lift the ban. Hornbeck
and the other companies argued they would suffer irreparable
economic harm from the suspension in drilling.  
 Yesterday, Hornbeck and more than a dozen other oil service
companies asked Feldman to enforce his order lifting the
moratorium. The companies sought an emergency hearing by the
judge in light of Salazar’s testimony before a Senate Committee
yesterday and statements by the department to the media, lawyer
 Carl Rosenblum  said in a court filing yesterday.  
 “Secretary Salazar’s statements constitute a de facto
continuance of the moratorium in direct violation” of Feldman’s
order, Rosenblum said.  
 ‘False Premise’  
 The government said in its response filed yesterday that
the companies’ request should be denied because it’s based on
the “false premise” that it’s ignoring or disobeying the
judge’s order.  
 Government lawyers had told Feldman the ban was based on
findings in a U.S. report following the sinking of the Deepwater
Horizon rig, owned by  Transocean Ltd. , off the Louisiana coast.  
 Feldman said the six-month ban was too far-reaching a
response to its investigation.  
 “The court is unable to divine or fathom a relationship
between the findings and the immense scope of the moratorium,”
Feldman said in his 22-page decision. “The blanket moratorium,
with no parameters, seems to assume that because one rig failed
and although no one yet fully knows why, all companies and rigs
drilling new wells over 500 feet also universally present an
imminent danger.”  
 Salazar’s Statements  
 Salazar yesterday told a Senate Appropriations Committee
panel, “We will in the weeks and months ahead take a look at
how it is that the moratorium in place might be refined.” Rules
to be issued “will include the criteria under which it is
appropriate to take a look at the lifting” of the ban, Salazar
said.  
 Hornbeck and the other companies said in court papers that
Salazar’s remarks show “direct defiance” of the court’s
preliminary injunction.  
 “We were very surprised yesterday and again today to hear
from Secretary Salazar that the moratorium is really still in
effect,”  Samuel Giberga , Hornbeck’s senior vice president and
general counsel, said yesterday in a phone interview. “That’s
the very issue Judge Feldman considered, and the very issue the
Department of Interior litigated before Judge Feldman and
lost.”  
 Salazar’s testimony referred to a “new moratorium” that
would include criteria under which it is appropriate to lifting
the drilling ban, Giberga said. “Well, the moratorium has
already been lifted,” he said.  
 Rig Evidence  
 In a separate case involving  Transocean’s  rig that exploded
and sank, a federal judge ruled the company must comply with a
subpoena from a joint panel of the U.S. Coast  Guard and Minerals
Management Service  that is investigating the accident that
killed 11 and caused the worst oil spill in U.S. history.  
 U.S. District Judge  Keith Ellison  in Houston yesterday
rejected the request by Transocean, the rig’s owner, to block
the panel’s subpoena, which was approved by a different federal
judge in New Orleans. Ellison is overseeing Transocean’s attempt
to limit its liability related to the sunken rig.  
 Transocean’s lawyers said they feared turning over the
rig’s work logs, records and physical debris would put it in
violation of other court orders and a request by the U.S.
 Justice Department  to preserve and maintain all evidence related
to the disaster.  
 Also yesterday,  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. , the Texas oil
company that owns 25 percent of the damaged well pouring crude
into the Gulf, was sued by investors who said the company made
false statements about drilling safety.  
 Anadarko Investors  
 The proposed class-action, or group suit, filed yesterday
in federal court in New York, alleges Anadarko misled investors
about the safety of the Deepwater Horizon joint venture with  BP 
and as a result, investors lost money on news that the well
couldn’t be capped.  
 The case is Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar,
2:10-cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans). The Transocean subpoena case is In Re.
The Complaint and Petition of Triton Asset Leasing GmbH, 4:10-
cv-01721, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas
(Houston). The investor suit is Jerry D. Goodwin v. Anadarko
Petroleum, 10-CV-4905, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.S. Interior Secretary Ken Salazar  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.S. interior secretary Ken Salazar speaks during a Senate Environment and Public Works Committee hearing in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.S. interior secretary Ken Salazar speaks during a Senate Environment and Public Works Committee hearing in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Louisiana State Treasurer John Kennedy talks about the outlook for deepwater oil drilling in the Gulf of Mexico and its impact on Louisiana's economy and culture.
     U.S. District Judge Martin Feldman yesterday granted a preliminary injunction, lifting a six-month moratorium President Barack Obama put in place May 27 on new deepwater drilling permits. The president also called for work to be stopped on 33 exploration wells. Kennedy speaks on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness With Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Kevin Book, managing director at ClearView Energy Partners LLC, discusses the six-month moratorium on deepwater drilling that was lifted by a New Orleans federal judge yesterday.
     Book talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
