-- U.S. Farmers May Face Reduced Subsidies on Budget Deficits, Peterson Says
-- Alan Bjerga
-- 2010-06-24T15:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/u-s-farmers-may-face-reduced-subsidies-on-budget-deficits-peterson-says.html

          
          
             Growers of corn, cotton and other
crops may have to accept reduced subsidies in the next farm bill
as budget-cutting becomes necessary to contain record deficits,
House Agriculture Committee Chairman  Collin Peterson  said.  
 “We’re not going to have any new money; we’ll probably
have less money,” the Minnesota Democrat said today at a
hearing in Washington of the House Agriculture subcommittee that
oversees commodity programs. “We’re going to have to make it
work,” he said.  
 The hearing was called to solicit opinion from farmers on
U.S. agriculture policy as Congress begins to craft legislation
to replace the current  farm bill . That measure, passed in 2008,
authorized $289 billion over five years for all Department of
Agriculture programs, including food stamps for the poor and
farm subsidies.  
 Those subsidies totaled $15.4 billion last year, according
to the Washington-based  Environmental Working Group . Record
budget deficits and trade disputes may make it more difficult
for lawmakers to maintain the payments, Wellesley College
professor Robert Paarlberg told the House Agriculture Committee
last month.  
 Farm Bureau  
 At today’s hearing, Illinois Farm Bureau President Philip
Nelson said the structure of the 2008 bill should be maintained
even if overall funding is reduced.  
 “We do understand the constraints of this farm bill, but
we have real concerns when we start shifting resources from one
area to another,” said Nelson, speaking on behalf of the
 American Farm Bureau Federation , the largest U.S. farmer group.  
 Some adjustments may be necessary, said Gary Murphy, the
board chairman of the Houston-based  US Rice Producers
Association . “Rice farmers are certainly not seeing any
windfalls” from farm programs, said Murphy, who grows about
7,000 acres of rice, cotton, corn and soybeans in Missouri.
“Neither are our brethren who produce other crops.”  
 Groups representing growers of corn, soybeans, barley,
sorghum, cotton, wheat, peas and lentils also testified at the
hearing.  
 Peterson has said he wants the next farm bill approved
before September 2012, a year before provisions in the current
measure expire, so that winter-wheat growers know what
agricultural-support programs will be before they plant their
crops.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Bjerga  in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        