-- U.S. Interest-Rate Swap Spreads Widen Amid Increase in Risk From Europe
-- Daniel Kruger
-- 2010-06-24T20:06:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/u-s-interest-rate-swap-spreads-widen-amid-increase-in-risk-from-europe.html

          
          
             U.S. interest-rate swap spreads
widened for a third day as Greek credit-default swaps climbed,
leading investors to speculate an increase in risk rooted in the
European debt crisis would bolster Treasuries.  
 The difference between the rate to exchange floating- for
fixed-interest payments for two years and the comparable-
maturity  Treasury  note yield, known as the two-year swap spread,
grew 3.5 basis points to 38.75 basis points. The 10-year  spread 
increased 1.25 basis points to 7 basis points. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  
 “The main catalyst is in Europe,” said  Carl Lantz , head
of interest-rate strategy in New York at Credit Suisse AG, one
of 18 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “Treasuries
outperform in a rally.”  
 Treasuries  rose earlier today, pushing the two-year note
yield to the lowest intraday level since November on bets
interest rates will remain low. They later traded little changed
after the government completed the last of three note sales
totaling $108 billion. The two-year yield was 0.66 percent after
falling earlier to 0.63 percent.  
 The 10-year swap spread has widened from 2.5 basis points on
June 21 on speculation corporate bond sales would slow, meaning
securities firms would engage in less hedging against the risk
of swings in yields. Spreads narrowed last week from 8.5 basis
points on June 14 as companies accelerated the pace of their
borrowing, trying to come to market ahead of a trend of yields
rising relative to Treasuries.  
 Credit-default swaps on Greece surged 145 basis points to a
record 1,077 basis points, according to CMA DataVision.  
 Swap rates are usually higher than Treasury yields in part
because the floating payments are based on interest rates that
contain credit risk. Swap rates serve as benchmarks for
investors in many types of debt, including mortgage-backed and
auto-loan securities.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        