-- U.S.'s Isner Beats Mahut at Wimbledon in Longest Match in Sport of Tennis
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-06-24T17:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/u-s-s-isner-beats-mahut-as-tennis-s-longest-match-ends-with-70-68-set.html

          
          
             John Isner  of the U.S. beat  Nicolas Mahut  of France at Wimbledon, completing the longest match in
tennis history over three days and more than 11 hours on court.  
 Isner fell to the ground on his back after his shot down
the line completed the victory, 6-4, 3-6, 6-7 (7-9), 7-6 (7-3),
70-68.  
 The first-round encounter, which was halted last night at
59-59 in the final set, lasted 11 hours, 5 minutes, including
about one hour today. Started on June 22, the match latest
almost 4½ hours longer than the previous record.  
 “I got a little bit tired, but when you come over and play
a match like this, with an atmosphere like this, you don’t feel
tired,” Isner said in a televised interview. “The crowd was
fantastic.”  
 The players hugged at the net after Isner produced a
backhand passing shot on his fifth match point.  
 “He’s a champion,” Mahut said. “We played the greatest
match in the greatest place to play tennis.”  
 Isner and Mahut were presented on Court 18 with a special
All England Club memento by former champion  Ann Jones  in
recognition of playing the longest match in history, then posed
by the scoreboard before leaving the court to cheers.  
 “At this moment, it’s just really painful,” Mahut, who
struggled to speak initially as the crowd shouted his name, told
the British Broadcasting Corp. “John deserved to win, he served
unbelievable.”  
 ‘Warrior’  
 Isner called Mahut “an absolute warrior.”  
 “It stinks that someone had to lose,” he added.  
 By the time darkness suspended their first-round match for
the second straight night at 9:10 p.m. London time yesterday,
Isner and Mahut had already played a record 163 games over 10
hours. A doctor was stationed courtside. The players had
combined for a record 193 aces in the match, while the fifth set
alone had lasted longer than the longest previous match ever
played on the London grass courts.  
 Their match was played for the third consecutive day at the
All England Club after it was twice suspended for darkness. Both
players had resumed yesterday afternoon tied at two sets each.
Crowds had started to gather around the 782-seat Court 18 hours
before the start today.  
 “You should never say never, but I never thought I’d see
anything like that, it was surreal,”  Bud Collins , a broadcaster
and tennis historian for more than 40 years, said in an
interview at Wimbledon today.  
 Winners, Aces  
 Isner produced 246 winners, two more than Mahut. The
American made 52 unforced errors in the match, compared with 39
for Mahut. Isner converted two of 14 break points, while Mahut
only broke the American’s serve once in three chances.  
 As Isner and Mahut continued to hold serve in the fifth
set, the International Tennis Federation said, records tumbled.  
 They played the most games in a match. Their 138-game fifth
set is the longest in Grand Slam history. Isner’s 112 aces and
Mahut’s 103, according to the tournament’s website, both broke
 Ivo Karlovic ’s previous record of 78 in one match, for Croatia
in a Davis Cup match against the Czech Republic in 2009.  
 The first-round match began two days ago. Isner, 25, won
the first set. Mahut, 28, won the next two sets. Isner won the
fourth set before play was suspended.  
 Mahut overcame four match points on his serve yesterday;
one at 10-9, two at 33-32 and one at 59-58.  
 Final Game  
 With the Frenchman serving to stay in the match at 69-68,
Isner got to his fifth match point with a forehand passing shot.
After sending a backhand passing shot past Mahut to take the
match, he let out a scream and collapsed on the grass. It was
the first break of serve since the first game of the second set.  
 The longest previous match was a 6-hour, 33-minute first-
round contest at the 2004 French Open between Frenchmen  Fabrice Santoro  and  Arnaud Clement .  
 The longest Wimbledon match before this was a 6:09 men’s
doubles quarterfinal played over two days in 2006, with  Mark Knowles  of the Bahamas and  Daniel Nestor  of Canada defeating
 Simon Aspelin  of Sweden and Todd Perry of Australia. The longest
men’s singles match at Wimbledon had been a 5:28 second-round
encounter between Greg Holmes and fellow American Todd Witsken
in 1989.  
 “It’s heroic,” 2004 champion  Maria Sharapova  said in a
news conference today, after beating Romania’s  Ioana Raluca Olaru . “What can you say?  It’s pretty incredible.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at Wimbledon through the London newsroom at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        