-- U.S. Stocks Fall, S&P 500 Caps Longest Decline in 7 Weeks
-- Rita Nazareth
-- 2010-06-24T20:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/u-s-index-futures-drop-on-concern-europe-s-debt-crisis-will-stifle-growth.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks fell, sending the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  to its longest losing streak in
seven weeks, as banks dropped on concern over financial
regulation and after the cost to protect from a Greek default
surged to a record, while consumer shares retreated.  
 Bank of America Corp.  and JPMorgan Chase & Co. dropped more
than 2.2 percent. Retailers slumped after  Bed Bath & Beyond
Inc. , whose shares lost 5.6 percent, missed earnings estimates.
 Nike Inc.  slid 4 percent as the athletic shoemaker’s sales
trailed projections.  Dell Inc.  declined 6.4 percent after its
2011 forecast disappointed some investors.  
 The  S&P 500  lost 1.7 percent to 1,073.69 at 4 p.m. in New
York, giving it a four-day slump of 3.9 percent. The Dow Jones
Industrial Average slipped 145.64 points, or 1.4 percent, to
10,152.80.  
 “It’s such a weak environment,” said  Wasif Latif , vice
president of equity investments at USAA Investment Management
Co., which oversees $45 billion in San Antonio. “European
issues seem to be far from over. There’s concern about financial
regulation. Minus the government stimulus, data showed there’s
not a whole lot going on in the economy. The drop in retailers
indicates they got ahead of themselves. There’s de-risking.”  
 Stocks extended losses in the final two hours of the day,
with the S&P 500 falling as low as 1,071.81. Traders said the
annual rebalancing of Russell Investments’ indexes, which takes
effect after 4 p.m. New York time tomorrow, may have swayed
prices today.  
 $3.9 Trillion  
 Russell estimates that $3.9 trillion is benchmarked to its
U.S. stock market measures, which include the  Russell 1000 Index 
of the biggest American companies and the Russell 2000 Index of
smaller stocks. Investors that mimic the performance of those
measures must buy and sell shares to match Russell’s
adjustments.  
 “The Russell rebalancing could be exaggerating moves in a
low-volume environment,” said  Peter Boockvar , equity strategist
at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York.  
 Volume  on U.S. stock exchanges has averaged 8.27 billion
shares a day since June 11, less than the 2010 average of 9.48
billion. Changes to the indexes unleash trading that can make
rebalancing day among the busiest of the year. In 2009, 12.8
billion shares changed hands on June 26, the year’s 16th-highest
total, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In the prior
four years, volume on rebalancing day was in the top 10.  
 ‘Volume Spike’  
 “It’s a liquidity event where volumes spike,” said  Brett Mock , chairman of the Security Traders Association, a trade
group based in Darien, Connecticut. “Volume has been below
average the last couple weeks, which suggests that this year’s
rebalance will be concentrated in one to two days rather than a
week or two.”  
 Stocks fell even after government reports showed
unemployment claims fell from a two-month high and durable-goods
orders excluding transportation equipment increased.  
 The number of Americans applying for jobless benefits
decreased by 19,000 to 457,000 in the week ended June 19,
according to the Labor Department. Orders for goods meant to
last at least three years, excluding autos and aircraft, rose in
May for the third time in four months. The 0.9 percent increase
followed a 0.8 percent decrease in April, figures from the
Commerce Department showed. Yesterday, data showed that new-home
sales sank to a record low in the U.S.  
 “The economic figures this morning were encouraging given
the disappointments we had with housing data,” said  Hank Smith ,
who helps oversee $6 billion as chief investment officer of
Haverford Trust Co. in Radnor, Pennsylvania. “Because of subpar
growth, we’ll get mixed economic numbers.”  
 European Stock Slump  
 European stocks fell today, led by indexes in Greece, Spain
and Portugal. Credit-default swaps on Greece rose 38 basis
points to an all-time high of 970 basis points, according to CMA
DataVision. Contracts on Portuguese government securities
climbed 16 basis points to a two-week high of 336.5, while Spain
rose 4 to 269.  
 Bank of America fell 2.7 percent to $15.02. The largest
U.S. lender by assets had its second-quarter profit estimate cut
to 20 cents a share from 29 cents, excluding some items, at
Collins Stewart Plc, which cited the likely affect from
financial-reform legislation.  
 JPMorgan declined 2.2 percent to $38.03.  
 Trading of bearish options jumped for the  Financial Select
Sector SPDR , an exchange-traded fund tracking U.S. banks,
brokerages and insurers. More than 601,000 puts changed hands,
more than triple the 20-day average and 14 times more than calls
giving the right to buy the ETF.  
 Final Language  
 Members of the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives are
negotiating the final language of legislation that may limit
banks’ trading in over-the-counter derivatives as well as how
they invest their own capital. Some analysts say the proposed
laws have become tougher in recent weeks.  
 “It’s starting to really cross over, quite clearly, not
into the area of financial regulatory reform but into punishment
of Wall Street,”  Brian Gardner , a former congressional staffer
who is now a Washington analyst for Keefe, Bruyette & Woods
Inc., said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “It’s
become a net negative.”  
 An index of  retailers in the S&P 500  slumped 2.7 percent,
the most among 24 groups. It has fallen 18 percent since rising
to the highest level since September 2007 in April.  
 Bed Bath & Beyond  retreated 5.6 percent to $39.12. The
home-furnishings retailer forecast second-quarter earnings of no
more than 63 cents a share. Analysts estimated earnings of 64
cents on average.  
 Nike, Dell  
 Nike lost 4 percent to $69.63. The largest maker of
athletic shoes reported fourth-quarter revenue of $5.08 billion,
missing the average analyst  estimate  of $5.15 billion in a
Bloomberg survey.  
 Dell  had the biggest decline in the S&P 500, dropping 6.4
percent to $12.93. The world’s third-largest personal-computer
maker yesterday said it expects fiscal 2011 revenue to increase
by 14 percent to 19 percent over fiscal 2010, or between $60.31
billion and $62.95 billion. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
estimate revenue of $61.79 billion.  
 “This is despite its upbeat comments of an enterprise PC
refresh,” Kaufman Brothers LP’s analyst  Shaw Wu  wrote in a note
today. “We continue to be concerned with the company’s still
high dependence on the competitive PC market.”  
 Housing Market  
 Home Depot Inc.  and Lowe’s Cos. fell at least 2.7 percent
as analysts from Janney Montgomery Scott LLC downgraded shares
of the two largest U.S. home-improvement retailers to
“neutral” from “buy,” saying the housing market recovery is
slower than anticipated.  
 Pfizer Inc.  dropped 2.8 percent to $14.46. The world’s
biggest drugmaker said it suspended trials of an experimental
pain relief drug for osteoarthritis after reports that patients’
conditions worsened and led to joint replacements.  
 Hasbro Inc.  rose 4.2 percent to $42.86 on takeover
speculation. The world’s second-biggest toymaker denied reports
that it’s in talks regarding a possible takeover, saying its
board spurned an approach from a private-equity firm. The Wall
Street Journal reported earlier that the toymaker was in
discussions with Providence Equity Partners Inc.  
 Poultry companies rose after President  Barack Obama  said
Russia, once the largest importer of U.S. chicken, agreed to
lift a ban. He spoke during a joint press conference with
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev .  
 Tyson Foods Inc. , the largest U.S. meat producer, gained
0.9 percent to $17.87. Sanderson Farms Inc. rose 4 percent to
$52.60. Pilgrim’s Pride Corp. added 5.4 percent to $7.23.  
 ‘Head-And-Shoulders’  
 The  S&P 500  is near a level that, if broken, could lead the
U.S. equity benchmark to a 14-month low, according to BTIG LLC.  
 Should the  index  fall 2.2 percent from today’s close, it
would complete what analysts who study charts to make forecasts
define as a “head-and-shoulders” pattern. That occurs after
three successive rallies that an index can’t sustain. The middle
peak -- the head -- marks the highest point. A drop below the
“neckline” of 1,050, which passes through the lowest point of
the pattern, could take the benchmark to 883, according to
 Michael O’Rourke , chief market strategist at BTIG.  
 “The pattern being formed is far from textbook,” said
Yardley, Pennsylvania-based O’Rourke, whose firm serves
institutional investors. “It lacks symmetry. For an ideal
symmetry, the right shoulder should occur in late July, early
August. This is not my base case, but instead investors should
be on alert in case the pattern completes.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Joseph Saluzzi, co-head of equity trading at Themis Trading LLC, talks about the outlook for the U.S. stock market and the economy.
     Saluzzi speaks on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness With Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Louis Navellier, chief investment officer at Navellier & Associates Inc., talks with Bloomberg Television's Margaret Brennan about his investment strategy for technology shares. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Jonathan Lemco, a sovereign credit analyst at Vanguard Group Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Erik Schatzker about the outlook for the euro-zone debt crisis.
     Lemco, speaking from a Bloomberg Link conference in London, also discusses the contrast between the subprime-mortgage collapse and the sovereign debt crisis, and investment strategy.  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
