-- Banker Who Blew Whistle Over Tax Cheats Seeks Pardon
-- David Voreacos
-- 2010-06-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/ubs-banker-who-blew-whistle-on-swiss-secrecy-over-tax-cheats-seeks-pardon.html

          
          
             Bradley Birkenfeld , once a  UBS AG 
banker who handled a $200 million investment for a billionaire
client, now makes 12 cents an hour mopping floors at the federal
prison in Minersville, Pennsylvania.  
 Sleeping in a bunk bed in a dormitory-style building with
35 other inmates is far from the reward Birkenfeld says he
deserves for exposing a massive tax-evasion scandal at UBS, the
biggest Swiss bank. He told U.S. authorities how UBS bankers
came to the U.S. to woo rich Americans, managed $20 billion of
their assets, and helped them cheat the Internal Revenue
Service.  
 Birkenfeld, 45, has asked President  Barack Obama  to commute
a 40-month term he began in January at Schuylkill Federal
Correctional Institution for his part in the conspiracy. He is
seeking payment from the IRS whistleblower program and wants the
U.S. Department of Justice to punish prosecutors who wouldn’t
grant him immunity before his 2008 indictment and guilty plea.  
 “I delivered and documented this entire scandal, the
largest in U.S. history,” Birkenfeld said in one of two prison
interviews with Bloomberg News. “I’m the most famous
whistleblower in the history of the world. It’s a question of
doing the right thing, and that’s what I did.”  
 His disclosures preceded UBS’s decision to pay $780 million
to avoid prosecution, admit it fostered tax evasion from 2000 to
2007, and turn over data on 250 secret accounts to the IRS. UBS
later agreed to reveal data on another 4,450 accounts, a
transfer upheld last week by the Swiss Parliament. For lifting
the veil on Swiss bank secrecy, Birkenfeld said, he’s a hero,
not a criminal.  
 Whistleblower Results  
 Prosecutors filed criminal tax charges against 16 UBS
clients in the U.S., two UBS bankers, and three others accused
of enabling the hiding of offshore assets. At least 150 other
people are being investigated, according to the Department of
Justice. Last year, 15,000 Americans sought to avoid prosecution
by telling the IRS about offshore accounts.  
 Birkenfeld’s chief prosecutor,  Kevin Downing  of the
department’s tax division, and his main UBS client, California
billionaire  Igor Olenicoff , take a different view of his
actions.  
 Downing told a U.S. judge last August that, while
prosecutors wouldn’t know about the “massive tax scheme”
without Birkenfeld, he deserved 30 months in prison for
initially refusing to detail his own role in the fraud and for
not revealing his work with Olenicoff. Birkenfeld, Downing said,
also wasn’t useful as a witness. The judge gave Birkenfeld 40
months.  
 Olenicoff, a real-estate developer who pleaded guilty in
December 2007 to filing a false tax return, got two years of
probation and paid $52 million in back taxes and penalties.  
 Billionaire Lawsuit  
 He sued UBS, Birkenfeld and others for racketeering.
Olenicoff, who declined to comment, claims in his lawsuit that
Birkenfeld defrauded him by investing some of his $200 million
in thinly traded stocks without his knowledge.  
 Birkenfeld said he spends his days reading, exercising and
talking to other white-collar inmates at his prison camp without
bars. A neurosurgeon’s son from Brookline, Massachusetts,
Birkenfeld is 6-feet 4-inches, weighs 220 pounds, and has
piercing blue eyes framed by a goatee and a high hairline.  
 A U.S. citizen, he attended the Thayer Academy in
Braintree, Massachusetts, and then Norwich University, a
military college in Northfield, Vermont. He then got a master’s
of business administration at the  American Graduate School of
Business  in Vevey, Switzerland.  
 Currency Trader  
 Before spending 15 years in Swiss banking, Birkenfeld
worked as a currency trader at State Street Bank & Trust Co. in
Boston. His said his whistle blowing began there.  
 While at State Street, he said, he went to the Federal
Bureau of Investigation to report what he considered illegal
activity in 1994. The FBI investigated. No charges were filed.  
 Birkenfeld said he was offered a full-time job at the
Boston office of the FBI. A former law enforcement official with
knowledge of that relationship said that while Birkenfeld gave
useful information to the bureau, he was not offered a job.  
 He then worked in private banking at Credit Suisse Group AG
and  Barclays Plc  before joining UBS in 2001. He persuaded
Olenicoff to move his assets to UBS from Barclays.  
 Birkenfeld was one of as many as 60 UBS bankers who criss
crossed the U.S. trolling for rich clients, even though they
lacked a required Securities and Exchange Commission license, he
later told U.S. Senate investigators. They visited art shows,
yachting regattas and golf and tennis tournaments, he said.  
 Encrypted Laptops  
 UBS trained bankers to avoid detection by regulators,
urging them to carry encrypted laptop computers and falsely
state on travel forms that they were entering the country for
pleasure, not business, he said. The bank admitted it helped
clients circumvent U.S. securities restrictions by referring
them to outside advisers who set up sham companies in tax havens
such as the British Virgin Islands, Hong Kong and Panama.  
 By 2005, Birkenfeld said, he was blowing the whistle again.
He sent a memo to his superiors at UBS about a “very serious
matter” regarding his compliance with UBS policies. He sent
similar e-mails to top executives in the legal and compliance
departments.  
 In October 2005, he resigned. Five months later, he wrote
to  Peter Kurer , then UBS’s general counsel, to say top
management “actively encouraged” practices “forbidden” by
the bank, according to the letter. The bank later reached a
severance agreement with Birkenfeld over a disputed bonus, he
said.  
 UBS spokeswoman  Karina Byrne  declined to comment.  
 Asked if he ever doubts himself, Birkenfeld said:
“Absolutely not. I’m very sure of myself. I’m well educated and
well traveled, and I think it’s important to understand that if
I take on a mission, I’m going to see it to the end. I’m not
going to be intimidated by the DOJ or UBS management.”  
 Whistleblower Award  
 When Birkenfeld decided to tell the Justice Department and
IRS about UBS, he hired a Washington law firm,  Schertler &
Onorato LLP . Birkenfeld sought an IRS whistleblower award that
allowed informants to be paid as much as 30 percent of tax
proceeds collected based on their information. The IRS won’t
disclose how much additional revenue it has reaped since the UBS
crackdown.  
 On March 28, 2007, an attorney at the firm,  David Dickieson , e-mailed a tax prosecutor, Karen Kelly, to say he had
a client with a “once in a career case.” Three weeks later, he
and partner David Schertler wrote a memo to prosecutors.  
 ‘Extremely Wealthy’  
 They identified their client only as the “Salesman,” and
said he worked at a large financial institution called “the
Vault.” The institution offered services to “extremely
wealthy” clients who didn’t declare their accounts to the IRS,
they told the agency. They referred to one client as Slick the
oil trader, saying he had more than $100 million in assets.  
 Prosecutors agreed to take Birkenfeld’s information in a
session called a proffer, at which his statements couldn’t be
used against him unless he lied. Birkenfeld wanted immunity.
Prosecutors declined, saying they had to hear his story and
corroborate it before they could agree to not charge him,
Birkenfeld said.  
 Over three days in June 2007, Birkenfeld gave prosecutors
details of how the UBS cross-border business helped rich
Americans evade taxes, he said. He said he gave them the
identity of Slick, a client of another banker. Birkenfeld said
he couldn’t provide other names without immunity or a subpoena
because of Swiss law forbidding disclosure of client
information.  
 Changing Rules  
 “They told me they wouldn’t prosecute me,” Birkenfeld
said. “Kevin Downing told me that in the first meeting. They
refused to give me a subpoena or immunity until they saw that I
was the real deal, as they said. They kept changing the rules of
the game and said ‘We won’t give you immunity.’”  
 Prosecutors had “an easy way to solve” Birkenfeld’s
dilemma, said one of his current attorneys,  Dean Zerbe .  
 “Why didn’t they just give him a subpoena so he would
speak?,” Zerbe said.  
 Birkenfeld said he returned to Switzerland and continued to
provide documents to prosecutors as they probed his claims. By
late August 2007, Dickieson e-mailed prosecutors to say UBS
suspected Birkenfeld was talking to investigators, putting him
“truly at risk” because the case was “threatening some very
powerful people.”  
 Proffer ‘Terminated’  
 Downing and Kelly weren’t budging on immunity. They wrote
to Dickieson on Sept. 6, 2007, to say Birkenfeld “terminated
his proffer with the Tax Division regarding alleged criminal
conduct” at UBS. They said they declined to grant immunity and
could continue the proffer if Birkenfeld chose to do so.  
 Downing was a lead prosecutor in the indictment of 19
defendants in the largest criminal tax-shelter case in U.S.
history, including 17 former partners and employees at KPMG LLP.
In 2007, a U.S. judge dismissed charges against 13 defendants,
saying prosecutors violated their constitutional right to
counsel by pressuring KPMG not to pay their legal bills. The
judge said prosecutors were following Justice Department policy
at the time. Three defendants were convicted at trial.  
 Birkenfeld said he lost faith in the Department of Justice
and decided to speak to the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations and its chairman, Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan
Democrat.  
 That fall, the Senate committee gave Birkenfeld the
subpoena he sought, and he gave investigators his story and
client details, including those on Olenicoff. He also spoke to
investigators from the IRS and the SEC.  
 ‘So Stubborn’  
 “Everybody but the DOJ was friendly to me,” Birkenfeld
said. “I just felt they were being so stubborn and then they
were trying to make me out to be the bad guy when I was trying
to help them. I didn’t break off the proffer. They failed to
live up to their end of the bargain.”  
 Downing said Birkenfeld’s lawyers insisted he wouldn’t
continue talking to prosecutors without immunity.  
 “He decided to not take advantage of the opportunity that
was offered and tell us about his own involvement in the UBS tax
fraud scheme,” said Downing, 44, a senior trial attorney who
led the UBS prosecution. “He particularly failed to tell the
Department of Justice about his involvement in offshore banking
for Igor Olenicoff.”  
 Immunity, he said, starts with the proffer agreement.  
 “You only get immunized for the crimes you tell us
about,” Downing said. “But you have to tell us about them. Had
he told us the truth about his involvement, in all likelihood he
would have been given immunity.”  
 Indictment, Arrest  
 The standoff continued into early 2008, when prosecutors
secured an indictment of Birkenfeld from a federal grand jury in
Fort Lauderdale, Florida. He was arrested in April 2008 at
Boston’s Logan International Airport as he flew from Geneva for
a high school reunion and meetings with Senate investigators and
the SEC.  
 Birkenfeld helped prosecutors before pleading guilty two
months later. At his plea, Birkenfeld said UBS made $200 million
a year handling $20 billion in assets. He said he toted customer
checks to deposit in European banks, and bought diamonds for a
client, bringing them to the U.S. in a toothpaste tube. In an
interview, Birkenfeld said the client wasn’t able to travel.  
 “I wasn’t smuggling them,” he said. “I was just bringing
them.”  
 In the summer of 2008, prosecutors held the head of the
cross-border banking business, Martin Leichti, on a material
witness warrant and debriefed him over four months. By February
2009, UBS lawyers were in court admitting the bank’s wrongdoing
to avoid prosecution.  
 Birkenfeld’s Sentencing  
 At Birkenfeld’s sentencing, Downing said Olenicoff would
have been in jail had Birkenfeld told the truth about him.
Downing also said he told Birkenfeld’s lawyers that he would
seek a court order compelling him to disclose client
information, which would give him protection from prosecution in
Switzerland.  
 Birkenfeld said Downing lied on several fronts at that
hearing before U.S. District Judge  William Zloch . Downing said:
“I’m a federal prosecutor speaking to a district court judge.
The truth is what we deal in.”  
 Birkenfeld said Schertler & Onorato, the first of three law
firms he hired, engaged in legal malpractice.  
 “Clearly, they made representations to me that were false
that I was going to get immunity, and they had great contacts in
the DOJ,” Birkenfeld said. “That was the whole reason why I
retained them from the outset.”  
 The firm declined to comment. Birkenfeld wouldn’t discuss
whether he may sue the firm.  
 Pardon Review  
 Andrew Ames , a spokesman for the Justice Department pardon
attorney, said Birkenfeld’s application is under review and he
couldn’t comment further. IRS spokesman  Dean Patterson  said he
couldn’t discuss the case of Birkenfeld or any other individual.  
 U.S. law allows the IRS to reward whistleblowers after a
confidential administrative review of their application. It may
deny or reduce awards if a whistleblower “planned and
initiated” tax cheating.  
 Birkenfeld’s case is being watched closely by other
whistleblowers and their lawyers, said Washington attorney  Erika Kelton  of Phillips & Cohen LLP.  
 “He is obviously a very important whistleblower and a
controversial figure, so people are very interested to see what
the IRS does in this case,” Kelton said.  
 India, Philippines  
 Birkenfeld said that if he gets the IRS whistleblower
award, he hopes to set up a nonprofit foundation and do
charitable work in India and the Philippines, two countries
where he has traveled extensively. He said that when he leaves
prison, he intends to live in Europe or Asia. Birkenfeld said he
“walked away” from a $1 million house in Zermatt, Switzerland,
after his arrest.  
 “I don’t trust my government,” he said. “That’s why I
lived in Switzerland for 15 years. How could I possibly trust
our government after what I’ve been through? I have no desire to
live in a country that treats its people this way.”  
 The case is U.S. v. Birkenfeld, 08-cr-60099, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Ex-UBS Banker Birkenfeld Wants Pardon  
                       
                         
                           Bradley C. Bower/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Bradley Birkenfeld, a former UBS AG banker, recently asked President Obama to commute his sentence. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Bradley Birkenfeld, a former UBS AG banker, recently asked President Obama to commute his sentence. Photographer: Bradley C. Bower/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
