-- Hudson Pacific Raises $218 Million in IPO of Office REIT; Shares Advance
-- Inyoung Hwang
-- 2010-06-24T20:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/hudson-pacific-raises-218-million-in-reit-ipo-at-bottom-of-price-range.html

          
          
             Hudson Pacific Properties Inc. , a
real estate investment trust that invests in office properties
in California, raised $218 million pricing its shares at the low
end of the forecast range for its initial public offering.  
 The REIT sold 12.8 million shares at $17 each after
offering them for $17 to $19, according to Bloomberg data and a
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Los Angeles-
based Hudson Pacific will use the proceeds to pay back mortgage
debt and acquire new properties.  
 The sale came after four of five U.S. companies last week
priced initial offerings within their forecast range in the
biggest week for U.S. IPOs this year. More than 30 companies
worldwide had postponed or withdrawn deals since the start of
May as the European debt crisis sent the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index down as much as 14 percent from its 2010 high.  
 “Volatility has come off a tremendous spike in May,” said
 Quinten Stevens , managing partner at Darien, Connecticut-based
hedge fund Stevens Asset Management LLC. “The quality of deals
coming recently has been relatively good. As a result, the
performance of a number of transactions has been positive.”  
 Hudson Pacific  advanced 2.4 percent to $17.40 today in New
York Stock Exchange Trading.  
 The  S&P 500  has rebounded 2.2 percent from its 2010 low on
June 7. The  VIX , as the Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index is known, has declined 27 percent since posting
the biggest weekly jump in its two-decade history in the period
ended May 7, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 REIT IPOs  
 Hudson Pacific convinced investors to buy shares within its
proposed price range after REITs from Americold Realty Trust and
New York-based  Madison Square Capital Inc.  to Welsh Property
Trust Inc. postponed or withdrew sales this quarter.  
 The offering’s midpoint price valued Hudson Pacific at
0.93 times net tangible book value, a measure of shareholder
equity that excludes assets that can’t be sold in liquidation.
That was 12 percent lower than the median ratio of 1.06 for 16
office REITs worldwide, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Americold , the Atlanta-based warehouse operator owned by
billionaire  Ron Burkle’s  Yucaipa Cos., pulled its sale last
month after seeking a price of more than twice the valuation of
262 property trusts worldwide relative to tangible book value,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At its original
midpoint price, Minnetonka, Minnesota-based  Welsh Property Trust 
was valued at a 70 percent premium to diversified REITs.  
 Office Properties  
 Hudson Pacific will own eight properties after the IPO,
including six office assets and two media and entertainment
spaces. The company is backed by San Francisco-based hedge fund
Farallon Capital Management LLC. Hudson’s chief executive
officer  Victor Coleman  will purchase $2 million in shares and
funds affiliated with Farallon will buy $18 million in a
concurrent private placement.  
 Bank of America Corp.  of Charlotte, North Carolina, London-
based Barclays Plc and Morgan Stanley in New York led Hudson
Pacific’s offering.  
 The market for U.S. IPOs showed signs of recovering last
week as companies from  CBOE Holdings Inc.  of Chicago to Houston-
based Oasis Petroleum Inc. sold $1.15 billion of shares.  
 Tesla Motors Inc. , the Palo Alto, California-based maker of
electric sports cars, plans to raise $178 million in an IPO
scheduled for June 28. Two people familiar with the plan said
yesterday that General Motors Co. of Detroit is preparing for an
initial offering that may sell 20 percent of the Treasury’s
stake in the automaker and reduce the U.S. to a minority owner.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kristen Scholer  in New York at 
 kscholer@bloomberg.net ;
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        