-- Nadal, Murray Advance at Wimbledon; Isner Wins Longest Match
-- James Cone
-- 2010-06-24T20:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/murray-advances-to-wimbledon-s-third-round-isner-wins-longest-ever-match.html

          
          
             Rafael Nadal , the 2008 Wimbledon
champion, beat Robin Haase in five sets today to reach the third
round at the only grass-court Grand Slam, while  John Isner 
defeated  Nicolas Mahut  in the longest match in tennis history.  
 Nadal, the top-ranked player on the ATP World Tour but
seeded No. 2 at Wimbledon, won 5-7, 6-2, 3-6, 6-0, 6-3 against
Haase of the Netherlands. The Spaniard was joined in the next
round by Britain’s  Andy Murray , who beat Finland’s  Jarkko Nieminen  6-3, 6-4, 6-2 in front of  Queen Elizabeth II  on Centre
Court as the monarch made her first visit to the All England
Club since 1977.  
 “I played a good match, in the first set I just had three
bad points at 6-5 and lost the set,” Nadal said in a televised
interview. “I am very happy to win this match as I was close to
losing.”  
 Serena Williams  continued the defense of her women’s title
with a 6-0, 6-1 victory against Russia’s  Anna Chakvetadze .  
 The first-round match between Isner of the U.S. and Mahut
of France, which started two days ago, was finally concluded at
4:48 p.m. local time today after 11 hours, 5 minutes on court.  
 The previous longest match had been a 6-hour, 33-minute
first-round match at the 2004 French Open between Frenchmen
 Fabrice Santoro  and  Arnaud Clement .  
 Russia’s  Maria Sharapova , the 2004 winner now ranked No. 17
on the WTA Tour, beat Romania’s  Ioana Raluca Olaru  6-1, 6-4.
Denmark’s  Caroline Wozniacki , the No. 3 seed, defeated Kai-Chen
Chang of Taipei 6-4, 6-3.  
 Federer in Five  
 Nadal joined top-seed and defending champion  Roger Federer 
in being taken to five sets in the early rounds at this year’s
championship, before battling past the 151st-ranked Hasse.  
 He was broken in the 12th game of the match to lose the
opening set, then appeared to be in control by breaking twice in
the second set.  
 The third went with serve until the sixth game, Haase
securing the only break with a forehand cross-court pass. Nadal
took the next set in only 22 minutes to tie the match at 2-2,
then forced a mistake from his Dutch opponent in Game 4 of the
final set with a lob to the back of the court to take the
decisive break.  
 Nadal, winner of his seventh Grand Slam title earlier this
month at the French Open, missed Wimbledon last year with a knee
injury.  
 Murray, a semifinalist last year, continued his bid to
become the first British man to win the Wimbledon singles title
since  Fred Perry  in 1936.  
 Queen’s View  
 The Queen moved to Centre Court to watch Murray and
Nieminen after greeting players including Federer and  Serena Williams .  
 The crowd rose and applauded as she made her way to the
Royal Box, while the two players put their bags down, put one
arm behind their backs and bowed as they entered the court.  
 Murray saved four break points in the opening game, but
only needed one opportunity in the next game to take a 2-0 lead
as Nieminen hit into the net.  
 The remainder of the set went with serve, the Briton
sealing it with an ace, one of 18 in the match for this year’s
Australian Open runner-up.  
 The 23-year-old controlled the rest of the match and
wrapped up the victory in 1 hour, 42 minutes to take his career
record against Nieminen to 3-0.  
 “Obviously it was a big occasion but you try and prepare
the same for every match,” Murray, the No. 4 seed, told
reporters. “It was a good match, he’s a tough player, very
solid. He doesn’t give you many free points.”  
 Who’s Next  
 Murray’s next opponent will be  Gilles Simon  of France, who
progressed after Illya Marchenko of Ukraine withdrew.  
 Isner, the No. 23 seed, hit 112 aces in his victory, with
the match against Mahut finishing 6-4, 3-6, 6-7 (7-9), 7-6 (7-
3), 70-68. Mahut had 103 aces.  
 Isner fell to the ground on his back after his shot down
the line completed the win. The match was halted last night at
59-59 in the final set.  
 “The guy’s an absolute warrior,” Isner said in a
televised courtside interview. “It stinks someone had to
lose.”  
 Jo-Wilfried Tsonga  of France also won a five-set match, 6-
4, 6-4, 6-7 (5-7), 5-7, 10-8 in 3 hours, 55 minutes against
Ukraine’s  Alexandr Dolgopolov .  
 Soderling Wins  
 Sweden’s  Robin Soderling , the No. 6 seed and runner-up at
the French Open for two straight years, beat  Marcel Granollers 
of Spain 7-5, 6-1, 6-4. Spain’s  David Ferrer , France’s  Julien Benneteau  and Brazil’s Thomaz Bellucci also won.  
 Sam Querrey  of the U.S., who won a grass-court warmup event
at Eastbourne, defeated Croatian qualifier Ivan Dodig 6-2, 5-7,
6-3, 7-6 (12-10) to advance to the third round for the first
time.  
 Serena Williams, aiming for her fourth Wimbledon title and
13th Grand Slam, has dropped only five games in reaching the
third round.  
 The 28-year-old American, winner of this year’s Australian
Open, took only 49 minutes to win today. She next faces
Slovakia’s Dominika Cibulkova.  
 The 23-year-old Sharapova avoided her third straight
second-round exit at the All England Club as she targets her
first Grand Slam title since the Australian Open in 2008.  
 No. 7 seed  Agnieszka Radwanska  of Poland beat Italy’s
Alberta Brianti 6-2, 6-0, while China’s Na Li, Italy’s  Flavia Pennetta  and Victoria Azarenka of Belarus were other seeds to
win.  Jie Zheng , the No. 23 seed from China, was beaten by  Petra Kvitova  of the Czech Republic, and No. 18 Aravane Rezai of
France was also defeated.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Nadal, Murray Advance at Wimbledon  
                       
                         
                           Adrian Dennis/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Spain's Rafael Nadal reacts after winning against the Netherlands' Robin Haase, on the fourth day of the Wimbledon Tennis Championships. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Spain's Rafael Nadal reacts after winning against the Netherlands' Robin Haase, on the fourth day of the Wimbledon Tennis Championships. Photographer: Adrian Dennis/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
