-- German Luxury Carmakers Add Shifts, Cut Breaks to Meet Demand
-- Chris Reiter
-- 2010-06-25T11:07:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/luxury-car-surge-has-bmw-daimler-adding-shifts-reducing-summer-breaks.html

          
          
             Mercedes-Benz,  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG  and Audi AG are adding staff and cutting summer factory
breaks to boost production as demand for luxury cars returns
quicker than they had planned.  
 Daimler AG , the parent of Mercedes, has hired 1,800
temporary workers and added Saturday shifts at German assembly
plants making the SLS gull-wing sports car, GLK sport-utility
vehicle and E-Class convertible, spokeswoman  Dominique Albrecht 
said.  BMW  has hired 5,000 temporary workers, while  Volkswagen
AG ’s Audi is adding extra shifts, the automakers said.  
 German luxury-car makers have been riding surging demand in
 China  and a rebound in the U.S. and Europe. BMW’s sales rose 11
percent in May, buoyed by deliveries of the 5-Series sedan and
Z4 roadster. Mercedes’s sales climbed 17 percent as E-Class
demand surged 84 percent, while  Audi  deliveries advanced 15
percent. BMW said the new 5-Series is sold out in all markets.  
 “The recovery in luxury-car demand has been a bit faster
than expected as confidence returns,” said  Colin Couchman , an
analyst at IHS Global Insight in London. “The growth is
sustainable, because these companies have continued to invest in
new products and expand into new markets.”  
 The extra shifts are a turnaround from a year ago, when
Daimler reduced hours for as many as 68,000 German  employees  to
slash car production 23 percent.  BMW , the world’s largest maker
of luxury vehicles, cut shifts for as many as 24,000 workers as
it lowered output 13 percent.  
 Restoring Profit  
 Daimler and BMW, which recorded  losses  in their car
divisions last year, are both predicting the units will return
to profit on higher sales. Audi, whose profit fell last year, is
forecasting “above average” growth in results this year as it
targets record sales, Chief Financial Officer  Axel Strotbek  said
this week.  
 “We’re now seeing in the U.S. that SUVs and everything
else that’s big and nice-looking is being sought after again,”
Strotbek said at a June 22 briefing in Berlin.  
 Still, the rebound may be peaking, as growth slows in the
U.S. and Europe and profits are diluted by a push into small
cars, like Audi’s A1 subcompact and a doubling of compact
Mercedes models. UBS AG analysts downgraded Daimler today to
“neutral” from “buy,” citing valuation concerns.  
 Downgrade  
 “The stock is now pricing a return of Mercedes to historic
peak margins,” UBS’s London-based  Philippe Houchois  wrote in a
note to clients. Starting next year, Mercedes faces “low
growth” in mature markets, while higher sales of the cheaper A-
and B-Class models may offset demand for the renewed S-Class
starting next year.  
 BMW, which has  risen  30 percent this year before today,
lost 83.5 cents, or 2 percent, to 40.53 euros in Frankfurt.
Daimler, the second-largest luxury-car manufacturer,  fell  3.8
percent to 41.78 euros, paring its gain this year to 12 percent.
Volkswagen’s preferred shares  dropped  2.4 percent to 75.36
euros, scaling back the gain this year to 15 percent.  
 Daimler, based in Stuttgart, has eliminated a three-week
halt at engine factories in Berlin, Untertuerkheim and Hamburg,
and hired 700 students to boost Mercedes production during
summer vacation, Albrecht said. The company is discussing extra
shifts at the plant that produces the A- and B-Class compacts.  
 “The demand for our products is developing very
positively,” Albrecht said. The three German  Mercedes  assembly
plants have run at full capacity in the second quarter and
overall production is nearing pre-crisis levels, she said.  
 Challenging BMW  
 BMW, based in Munich, has hired 5,000 temporary workers
after eliminating most non-permanent staff during the financial
crisis, spokesman  Mathias Schmidt  said, confirming comments by
personnel chief  Harald Krueger  in an interview published by
Handelsblatt newspaper yesterday. The company is also in talks
with unions about expanding working hours, Schmidt said.  
 Audi, which aims to overtake BMW as the luxury leader by
2015, is adding extra shifts at its factory in Neckarsulm in
Germany because of demand for the A8 luxury sedan and R8 sports
car, spokeswoman  Antje Bauer  said. The company plans to add 100
temporary workers to the plant next month to support the
introduction of new models such as the A7 coupe and A6 sedan.  
 BMW, which also owns the Mini and Rolls-Royce car brands,
has sold out of the revamped 5-Series in all markets, forcing
customers to wait three to four months for deliveries, sales
chief  Ian Robertson  said this week. The sports sedan went on
sale in Europe in late March.  
 Fuel Efficiency  
 The sales rebound is key for high-end brands, which face
mounting pressure from regulators to improve fuel efficiency and
reduce carbon-dioxide emissions. The shift is forcing the
manufacturers to invest in new technologies years before they
have potential to add to profits.  
 BMW is building a $100 million factory near Seattle to
produce lightweight carbon-fiber components for a line of
electric-powered city cars due in 2013. Mercedes is setting up a
unit to produce lithium-ion batteries for its vehicles by 2012.
Overall, Daimler plans to boost spending to develop batteries
and fuel-saving engines to about 1 billion euros this year from
past investment budgets of 567 million euros annually,
development chief  Thomas Weber  said in March.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Reiter  in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Daimler CEO Dieter Zetsche speaks at the company's annual shareholder's meeting in Berlin. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
