-- VW's Talks with Jacoby Said to Focus on Obligations Before He Joins Volvo
-- Andreas Cremer
-- 2010-06-25T16:54:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/vw-negotiates-contract-with-u-s-chief-who-is-reported-to-head-volvo-cars.html

          
          
             Volkswagen AG  is negotiating with
U.S. chief  Stefan Jacoby  over terms of his departure before
he takes over as chief executive officer at Volvo Cars,
according to people familiar with the matter.  
 Jacoby, 52, will replace  Stephen Odell , 55, at Volvo Cars,
said two people with direct knowledge of the matter, who asked
not to be identified because the matter is confidential.
Jacoby’s talks with VW focus on his contractual obligations to
the German carmaker before he leaves, one of the people said.  
 Jacoby has been  Volkswagen ’s top U.S. executive since
September 2007. He has cut costs, designed the first models for
the U.S. market, added an assembly plant in Tennessee and moved
the headquarters to Virginia from Michigan. His leaving could
result in a drain of production know-how to Volvo, the Swedish
automaker Zhejiang Geely Holding Co. is taking over from  Ford
Motor Co. , said  Aleksej Wunrau , an analyst at ING BHF-Bank AG in
Frankfurt.  
 “Jacoby’s departure would be bad news for VW” and may
cause frictions within VW’s U.S. operations at a time when the
Chattanooga plant is about to be opened, Wunrau said.  
 Michael Lohscheller , who has been in charge of finance in
the U.S. since 2007, will run Volkswagen Group of America on an
interim basis, while  Mark Barnes  will do the same for the
Volkswagen brand until Jacoby’s “contractual situation has been
clarified,” VW said in a statement late yesterday.  
 ‘Holding Talks’  
 “We are holding contract talks with Stefan Jacoby,”
Volkswagen said in the statement. “These talks have by no means
been concluded yet.”  
 Volvo Cars’ new management team is up to Geely to confirm,
said  John Gardiner , a spokesman for Ford of Europe.  Yuan Xiaolin , a spokesman for Geely in China, didn’t answer calls to
his mobile phone. Per-Ake Froberg, a Volvo spokesman, didn’t
have a comment.  
 Volkswagen’s preferred shares  fell  2.16 euros, or 2.8
percent, to close at 75.05 euros in Frankfurt, paring their
gains this year to 15 percent and valuing the carmaker at 33.7
billion euros ($41.6 billion).  
 Geely is buying Volvo from Ford for $1.8 billion in the
biggest overseas purchase by a Chinese automaker. Volvo’s leader
will have to stanch plummeting sales to return the company to
profit while tapping growth in China, which surpassed the U.S.
as the world’s largest auto market in 2009.  
 Challenging BMW  
 Volvo sold 334,808 cars worldwide last year, a decline of
11 percent from 2008 and 27 percent from a peak of about 460,000
in 2007, according to the company.  
 Volkswagen aims to sell 1 million cars and sport-utility
vehicles in the U.S. by 2018, with its Audi luxury division
accounting for 20 percent of that figure. VW is aiming to
dethrone  Bayerische Motoren Werke  AG as the largest luxury
automaker.  
 VW sold about 214,000 cars in the U.S. in 2009, excluding
Audi. The company aims to more than double the figure to 450,000
by 2012 to 2013, Jacoby said in January.  
 The assembly plant in Chattanooga, Tennessee, will begin
production next year of a sedan model aimed at U.S. consumers 
that is bigger than other VW cars, Jacoby said March 31.  
 Jacoby started working for  Volkswagen  in 1985 in the
industrial sales controlling department, according to his
company biography. He worked for Volkswagen of America in 1988
in the controlling and marketing departments, before moving to
Japan where he stayed until the end of 1992.  
 From 1997 to 2001 he was responsible for VW’s Asia-Pacific
region. Jacoby left Volkswagen in 2001 to work for Mitsubishi
Motors Corp.’s European operations. He returned to VW in March
2004 and became Volkswagen’s global sales chief later that year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Stefan Jacoby, president and CEO of Volkswagen of America  
                       
                         
                           JB Reed/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Stefan Jacoby, president and chief executive officer of Volkswagen of America, in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Stefan Jacoby, president and chief executive officer of Volkswagen of America, in New York. Photographer: JB Reed/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          March 31 (Bloomberg) -- Stefan Jacoby, chief executive officer of Volkswagen AG's North American unit, talks with Bloomberg's Betty Liu about VW's new Tennessee plant and model vehicles.
     Jacoby, speaking at the 2010 New York International Auto Show, also discuss the outlook for the U.S. auto market and VW sales. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
