-- Wal-Mart Wages Cloud Chicago Expansion as Aldermen Sweat Wrath of Unions
-- Matthew Boyle
-- 2010-06-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/wal-mart-wages-cloud-chicago-expansion-as-aldermen-sweat-wrath-of-unions.html

          
          
             Chicago Alderman Anthony Beale
called a news conference this week to trumpet Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. bringing $8.75-an-hour wages to his far south
side neighborhood. One hiccup: The Wal-Mart executive
flanking him wouldn’t confirm the number.  
 The world’s  largest retailer  has only one store within
Chicago’s city limits, and organized labor is rebuffing
efforts to add dozens more. The unions want the jobs to pay
at least 50 cents more an hour as the city struggles with
an unemployment rate of 10 percent.  
 A City Council panel is scheduled to vote today on
whether to rezone property for Wal-Mart to open a second
store in the nation’s third-largest city. The council’s 50
aldermen face re-election in February, risking the wrath of
either labor unions or out-of-work voters over Wal-Mart’s
plans.  
 “They’re saying, ‘We want to enter the urban
marketplace with rural wages,’” said Jorge Ramirez,
secretary treasurer of the  Chicago Federation of Labor .  
 The Chicago Tribune reported that Alderman Daniel
Solis, chairman of the council’s zoning committee, may
delay today’s vote. Solis didn’t respond to telephone or e-
mail messages left late yesterday. Supporters expect the
full council next week to consider a broader development
plan in Beale’s ward that would include a Wal-Mart.  
 The Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer eventually
wants to open “several dozen” Chicago stores that will
“eradicate the food deserts” of neighborhoods without
grocery stores while creating 12,000 jobs, said  Hank Mullany , executive vice president and president of Wal-
Mart’s northern U.S. division, at Monday’s news conference.  
 Unemployed Chicagoans  
 The city’s unemployment rate was 10.5 percent in May,
compared with the 9.7 percent national average, according
to preliminary figures from the U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics. The jobless rate in Illinois was 10.8 percent.  
 Mayor  Richard M. Daley  has used such numbers to argue
in favor of Wal-Mart’s plans, which he reviewed with
company executives earlier this month at the U.S.
Conference of Mayors annual meeting.  
 “He met with Wal-Mart officials in Oklahoma City to
discuss the proposal and to ensure that it included better
benefits for Chicago’s communities including higher
wages,” Bill McCaffrey, a spokesman for the mayor, wrote
in an e-mail.  
 Daley, 68, has yet to announce whether he will run
next year for a seventh term.  
 Sticky Situation  
 Alderman Ed Smith, a member of the zoning committee,
is one of the politicians stuck between unions and
unemployed constituents. His West Side ward also doesn’t
have easy access to fresh food, he said, though he declined
to say how he would vote.  
 “Every man has to make his own decision,” Smith
said.  
 If Wal-Mart prevails with Chicago aldermen, its
experience may serve as a blueprint for expansion into
other cities, said  Leon Nicholas , a director at consulting
firm Kantar Retail in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  
 “Chicago could very well be a model for how Wal-Mart
expands into urban areas -- a multiformat, localized
approach that leverages Wal-Mart’s growing community-
relations skills to capture urban market share,” Nicholas
said in a telephone interview. “Chicago opens up the
opportunity for small-store urban expansion that they’ve
been talking about for a while.”  
 Declining Sales  
 The Chicago stores are part of a broader strategy that
Chief Executive Officer  Mike Duke  has outlined during the
past year to fuel growth in the U.S., where sales at stores
open at least a year have declined for four consecutive
quarters. Since Duke took the helm in February 2009, Wal-
Mart shares have increased about 9 percent, compared with a
32 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  
 “We definitely see an opportunity for us to enter
other large cities in the U.S.,” Mullany said in a
telephone interview. “And we think the way to do that is
with smaller stores and different formats.”  
 Chicago’s Wal-Mart skeptics gained ammunition from a
December 2009 study that found about 300 jobs were lost
after Wal-Mart opened its store on the city’s west side in
2006. It pushed out smaller retailers, said David Merriman,
the study’s author and head of the economics department at
the University of Illinois at Chicago.  
 “Some other stores are going to sell less,” he said
in a telephone interview.  
 Cautious Comparison  
 Merriman cautioned against comparing the impact of
Wal-Mart’s first Chicago store to the one it wants to build
on the far south side.  
 “They don’t have a lot of small stores like in the
Austin neighborhood,” he said.  
 The proposed Wal-Mart, which would sell groceries as
well as general merchandise, wouldn’t have much competition
within walking distance. Jewel-Osco and Save-A-Lot are
about 2.5 miles away.  
 Monday’s news conference was part of an effort to
build support for Wal-Mart’s plans on the eve of the
scheduled zoning committee vote. The full city council four
years ago passed an ordinance for a so-called living wage
of $13 an hour including benefits. Daley vetoed the
measure, saying it would dissuade businesses from locating
in the city.  
 Chicago’s lone Wal-Mart pays employees an average of
$11.77 per hour, Mullany said at the news conference. The
average full-time wage for Wal-Mart employees in the U.S.
is $11.75, according to the retailer’s website.  
 More Than Minimum  
 The wages “are as good, if not better than, the
businesses we compete with,” Steven Restivo, a Wal-Mart
spokesman, said in a telephone interview. He declined to
confirm Beale’s statement that Wal-Mart is willing to pay
Chicago workers at least $8.75 an hour, 50 cents more than
the state’s minimum wage as of July 1.  
 “Our policy in general is not to comment on starting
wages for proprietary reasons,” he said.  
 While the union representing organized grocery workers
nationwide dismissed Wal-Mart’s $8.75 offer as a “PR
stunt,” it declined to provide figures for unionized
workers at Jewel-Osco and Dominick’s, two of Chicago’s
biggest grocery chains.  
 “It’s comparing apples to oranges,” said Marina Faz-
Huppert, legislative and political director for  Local 881 
of the United Food and Commercial Workers International
Union.  
 Unions helped defeat several aldermen in 2007 after
they voted against the living-wage ordinance. Today’s vote
will show whether the unions can muster support -- if the
vote takes place.  
 “Anything could happen,” said Cathy Van Alstin, a
zoning committee staff member.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Wal-Mart Stores President and CEO Mike Duke listens during meeting in New York. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
