-- Wal-Mart, Chicago Unions Can't Agree If They Have an Agreement
-- Leslie Patton
-- 2010-06-24T20:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/wal-mart-chicago-unions-can-t-agree-if-they-have-a-deal-on-second-store.html

          
          
             Chicago aldermen gave zoning
approval today for  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  to build a second store
in the city, praising a union agreement with the retailer to
guarantee raises within a year. Moments after the vote, a Wal-
Mart spokesman said there was no such deal.  
 Wages are at the center of efforts by the world’s  largest
retailer  to expand in Chicago, where the unemployment rate is
more than 10 percent. Wal-Mart has only one store within the
city’s limits, and organized labor is challenging plans to add
dozens more unless workers are paid more.  
 The Chicago City Council’s zoning committee voted to rezone
property on the far south side where Wal-Mart is seeking to
build a store that would sell food as well as general
merchandise. The retailer said this week that it would build
several dozen stores in Chicago during the next five years if it
could obtain approval.  
 Labor and political leaders said Wal-Mart promised to pay
at least $8.75 an hour to workers and minimum raises of 40 cents
within a year. The minimum wage in Illinois as of July 1 will be
$8.25 an hour.  
 This is the “first time that the largest retailer in the
world had seen fit to offer 50 cents more than minimum wage as
starting pay,” said Alderman Ed Burke, waving a printout of an
e-mail from Maggie Sans, vice president of public affairs for
the Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer, during a meeting of
the city council’s zoning committee.  
 The United Food and Commercial Workers International Union
trumpeted what it called “the Chicago agreement,” writing in a
statement that it “signifies a new era in which Walmart
recognizes the importance of setting minimum working standards
and putting those standards in writing.”  
 ‘No Deal’  
 Yet Steven Restivo, a Wal-Mart spokesman, later said there
was no such agreement and that the e-mail from Sans simply
clarified the company’s existing policies on raises.  
 “There are no deals,” Restivo said. “All raises are
based on performance.”  
 The council’s 50 aldermen face re-election in February,
risking the wrath of either labor unions or out-of-work voters
over Wal-Mart’s plans.  
 “They’re saying, ‘We want to enter the urban marketplace
with rural wages,’” said Jorge Ramirez, secretary treasurer of
the  Chicago Federation of Labor .  
 The Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer eventually wants
to open several dozen Chicago stores that will “eradicate the
food deserts” of neighborhoods without grocery stores while
creating 12,000 jobs, said  Hank Mullany , executive vice
president and president of Wal-Mart’s northern U.S. division, at
a news conference earlier this week.  
 Chicago Unemployment  
 The city’s unemployment rate was 10.5 percent in May,
compared with the 9.7 percent national average, according to
preliminary figures from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.
The jobless rate in Illinois was 10.8 percent.  
 Mayor  Richard M. Daley  has used such numbers to argue in
favor of Wal-Mart’s plans, which he reviewed with company
executives earlier this month at the U.S. Conference of Mayors
annual meeting.  
 “He met with Wal-Mart officials in Oklahoma City to
discuss the proposal and to ensure that it included better
benefits for Chicago’s communities including higher wages,”
Bill McCaffrey, a spokesman for the mayor, wrote in an e-mail.  
 Daley, 68, has yet to announce whether he will run next
year for a seventh term.  
 Vote Next Week  
 The full city council is scheduled to vote next week on a
development plan for the far south side that would include a
Wal-Mart store.  
 If Wal-Mart prevails, its experience may serve as a
blueprint for expansion into other cities, said  Leon Nicholas , a
director at consulting firm Kantar Retail in Cambridge,
Massachusetts.  
 “Chicago could very well be a model for how Wal-Mart
expands into urban areas -- a multiformat, localized approach
that leverages Wal-Mart’s growing community-relations skills to
capture urban market share,” Nicholas said in a telephone
interview. “Chicago opens up the opportunity for small-store
urban expansion that they’ve been talking about for a while.”  
 The Chicago stores are part of a broader strategy that
Chief Executive Officer  Mike Duke  has outlined during the past
year to fuel growth in the U.S., where sales at stores open at
least a year have declined for four consecutive quarters.  
 Since Duke took the helm in February 2009, Wal-Mart shares
have increased about 7 percent, compared with a 30 percent gain
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  
 Urban Strategy  
 “We definitely see an opportunity for us to enter other
large cities in the U.S.,” Mullany said in a telephone
interview. “And we think the way to do that is with smaller
stores and different formats.”  
 The proposed Wal-Mart in the city’s Pullman neighborhood
wouldn’t have much competition within walking distance. Jewel-
Osco and Save-A-Lot are about 2.5 miles away.  
 Chicago’s lone Wal-Mart pays employees an average of $11.77
per hour, Mullany said at the news conference. The average full-
time wage for Wal-Mart employees in the U.S. is $11.75,
according to the retailer’s website.  
 The wages “are as good, if not better than, the businesses
we compete with,” Restivo said.  
 Living Wage  
 The city council four years ago passed an ordinance for a
so-called living wage of $13 an hour including benefits. Daley
vetoed the measure, saying it would dissuade businesses from
locating in the city.  
 Even those who came to City Hall this morning pushing Wal-
Mart to offer a living wage couldn’t agree on what that might
be.  
 “It’s expensive to live here in Chicago and $8.75 is not
going to do it,” said Michelle Young, president of Action Now,
a Chicago community organization focused on working families.  
 Labor leaders have asked Wal-Mart for beginning workers to
be paid $9.25 an hour. Young and other activists said that’s not
enough.  
 “Ten dollars would be a good start,” she said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        