-- Wheat Leads Advances by Grains, Oilseeds as Wet Weather May Curb Supplies
-- Claudia Carpenter
-- 2010-06-24T12:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/wheat-leads-advances-by-grains-oilseeds-as-wet-weather-may-curb-supplies.html

          
          
             Wheat led advances by grain and
oilseed futures in Chicago as wet weather may limit supplies
from Canada, the world’s second-largest exporter after the U.S.  
 The August estimate of planted areas in Canada may show
flooding caused further reductions after farmers sowed less
wheat than a year ago, Statistics Canada said yesterday. Storms
over the weekend may bring up to 1.25 inches of rain in North
Dakota, South Dakota and the Great Lakes area, according to
AccuWeather Inc.  
 “There is notable flooding still out on the plains in
Canada,”  Dennis Gartman , an economist and editor of the
Suffolk, Virginia-based Gartman Letter, wrote in his daily
report today. “There is flooding now in part of the Dakotas,
and there has been flooding in Missouri and in parts of southern
Illinois.”  
 Wheat for September delivery gained 2.5 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $4.7825 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at
1:14 p.m. London time. Corn for December delivery climbed 0.3
percent to $3.665 a bushel and soybeans for November delivery
increased 0.2 percent to $9.2525 a bushel.  
 In Paris, milling wheat for November delivery fell 0.4
percent to 139.50 euros ($171) a metric ton.  
 China, the largest soybean buyer, purchased between 17 and
25 cargoes, or as much as 1.5 million tons, in the past two
weeks as crushers expect processing margins to improve,
according to a range of estimates from three executives familiar
with the trade.  
 Soybean Sowing  
 Chinese buyers had curbed purchases in recent weeks as port
inventories surged, they said. Each cargo weighs 60,000 tons.  
 Soybean planting in Brazil, the world’s second-largest
producer, may be delayed by dry weather caused by the La Nina
weather pattern,  Paulo Etchichury , head of Sao Paulo-based
forecaster Somar Meteorologia, said yesterday.  
 La Nina years are “among the worst for grain and oilseed
crops in Brazil,” Etchichury said. La Nina, caused by cooling
temperatures in the Pacific Ocean, can mean less rain will fall
over southern Brazil during the soybean planting season that
runs from September to November.  
 Soybean output in Brazil expanded 20 percent from a year
earlier to 68.7 million tons for the crop that farmers finished
harvesting last month, according to the Agriculture Ministry.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Claudia Carpenter  in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        