-- Twitter Settles U.S. Charges That It Failed to Protect Consumers' Privacy
-- Justin Blum
-- 2010-06-24T20:36:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/twitter-settles-ftc-privacy-charge-after-hackers-gained-access-to-tweets-.html

          
          
             Twitter Inc., the microblogging
service with about 190 million visitors per month, agreed to
settle a U.S. government complaint that security lapses allowed
hackers to view private messages and send “tweets” from other
people’s accounts.  
 Failures in the company’s data security allowed hackers to
gain administrative control of Twitter, the Federal Trade
Commission said in a  statement  today announcing its complaint
and settlement. One hacker sent a bogus tweet in January 2009
from the account of then-President-elect  Barack Obama  offering
his followers a chance to win $500 in free gasoline.  
 San Francisco-based Twitter, which is closely held, allows
users to send tweets, or messages of up to 140 characters.
Privacy settings allow users to designate some tweets as
private.  
 “When a company promises consumers that their personal
information is secure, it must live up to that promise,” said
 David Vladeck , director of the FTC’s Bureau of Consumer
Protection, in the statement. “Likewise, a company that allows
consumers to designate their information as private must use
reasonable security to uphold such designations.”  
 Twitter won’t be fined under the settlement. The company
will  be barred for 20 years from misleading consumers about the
extent to which it protects private information. The company
also has to maintain a “comprehensive information security
program,” according to the  settlement .  
 The company said in a  blog  posting that the attacks on the
site resulted in 45 accounts being accessed in January 2009 and
10 in April last year. The company said it moved quickly to
address the security issues then.  
 Blog Posting  
 “Even before the agreement, we’d implemented many of the
FTC’s suggestions and the agreement formalizes our commitment to
those security practices,” the company said in the blog
posting.  
 In a separate e-mail statement, Twitter said it was better
to put the 11-month inquiry “behind us” than to fight the FTC.  
 Aside from the bogus Obama tweet, unauthorized messages
were sent from eight other accounts, including one belonging to
 Fox News , according to the FTC complaint.  
 In January 2009, a hacker used an automated tool to
determine a Twitter employee’s administrative password after
submitting thousands of guesses on Twitter’s public Web page.
The password was a “weak, lowercase, letter-only, common
dictionary word,” according to the complaint.  
 Private Information  
 The password allowed the hacker to access private user
information and send bogus tweets for any user, according to the
complaint. The hacker reset user passwords, some of which the
hacker posted online. Reset passwords were used by other
intruders to send unauthorized tweets.  
 In April 2009, a hacker gained access to a Twitter
employee’s personal e-mail and was able to infer the employee’s
Twitter administrative password, according to the complaint. The
hacker reset at least one user’s password, according to the FTC.  
 According to the FTC’s complaint, Twitter was vulnerable to
hackers’ attacks because it failed to take “reasonable steps”
to prevent unauthorized administrative control of its system,
the commission statement said.  
 The agreement with Twitter is subject to public comment for
30 days. The commission then will decide whether to make it
final, according to the statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Justin Blum  in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        