-- Yuan Gains on Speculation China Will Allow Appreciation Before G-20 Meets
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-24T09:50:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-24/yuan-trades-near-1993-high-as-euro-gains-boost-outlook-for-china-s-exports.html

          
          
             The yuan rose toward its strongest
level since 1993 on speculation the central bank will allow the
currency to climb before this weekend’s Group of 20 talks.  
 The People’s Bank of China is seeking to demonstrate greater
flexibility in the currency as exports recover, Standard
Chartered Plc wrote in a note today. Policy makers said on 
June 19 they will resume managing the currency against a 
basket of currencies including the euro and end a two-year peg 
to the dollar.  
 “In the short-term, the PBOC wants to show the market that
the new yuan exchange rate is genuinely flexible and more
market-driven than the previous framework,” according to the note
from Standard Chartered analysts including  Thomas Harr . The
bank raised its one-year forecast for the yuan to 6.56 per
dollar from 6.70, citing an earlier-than-expected decision by
China’s central bank to allow its currency to trade more freely.  
 The yuan climbed 0.19 percent to close at 6.7997 per dollar
in Shanghai. It has gained 0.39 percent this week and touched
6.7958 on June 21, the strongest level since the central bank
unified official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993.
The 12-month non-deliverable forward weakened 0.1 percent to
6.6695, 2 percent stronger than the spot rate.  
 Authorities will “ensure the exchange rate’s fluctuation
is controllable and prevent the possibility of market forces
causing excessive adjustment in the rate,” the central bank
said June 20. Appreciation will accelerate in the fourth quarter
as the People’s Bank of China seeks to demonstrate more
flexibility, today’s Standard Chartered note said.  
 Money-Market Rate  
 China’s benchmark money-market rate rose to a three-week
high on speculation big banks are reluctant to lend toward the
end of the first half.  
 The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures funding
availability between banks, climbed 15 basis points to 2.87
percent, according to the daily fixing rate published by the
National Interbank Funding Center. That was the highest level
since June 3l. The rate has averaged 2.6 percent this month,
compared with 1.8 percent in May. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  
 “Banks are less willing to do short-term lending before
the end of June as it will affect their half-year reports,”
said  Wang Yintao , a money trader at Industrial Bank Co. in
Shanghai. “The cash shortage won’t ease until mid-July, when
Agricultural Bank will sell shares.”  
 Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., the country’s largest
lender by customers, will start its initial public offering on
July 6, according to a statement on June 17.  
 Bonds Slide  
 Government bonds due in four years and less fell after the
central bank today sold the least amount of three-month bills in
open-market operations so far this year.  
 The People’s Bank of China sold 5 billion yuan ($743
million) of the bills at 1.5704 percent, with the yield being
unchanged for the first time since May 20.  
 The central bank has  injected  a net 201 billion yuan of
cash into the financial system so far this week, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The yield on the 2.33 percent note due in June 2013 climbed
three basis points to 2.53 percent, and the price dropped 0.08
per 100 yuan face amount to 99.44, the funding-center data
showed.  
 -- Bob Chen ,  Belinda Cao . Editors:  Sandy Hendry ,  James Regan   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Chen  in Hong Kong at 
 bchen45@bloomberg.net 
 Belinda Cao  in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Indonesian Trade Minister Mari Pangestu talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about the shift in China's currency policy and its implications for regional trade.
     Pangestu, speaking from Jakarta, also discusses the outlook for Indonesia's palm oil industry, and global efforts to fight climate change. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Kathy Lien, director of currency research at online currency trader GFT Forex, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about the European debt crisis and the outlook for the euro.
     Lien, speaking from Sydney, also discusses the appointment of Julia Gillard as Australia’s prime minister and its implications for the nation's currency, China's yuan policy, and the outlook for the New Zealand and Canadian dollars. Lien spoke before Gillard was sworn in as prime minister.(Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
