-- American Axle talks continue as pressure mounts
-- By  Kevin Krolicki
-- Sun Mar 9, 2008 3:52pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/03/09/businesspro-americanaxle-strike-dc-idUSN0940149720080309

 

 DETROIT  (Reuters) - Talks between 3,600 workers and 
American Axle & Manufacturing Holdings ( AXL.N ) continued for a 
fourth straight day on Sunday as the two sides worked toward a 
deal to end a nearly two-week-old strike that has hobbled GM 
truck production in the United States and Canada. 

  Bargaining teams from the United Auto Workers and 
Detroit-based American Axle met all day Saturday and reconvened 
for talks on Sunday, company spokeswoman Renee Rogers said.  The renewed talks marked the first time the two sides have 
opted to talk through the weekend and came as the disruption 
from the UAW strike showed signs of deepening for American 
Axle's main customer, General Motors Corp ( GM.N ).  "It sounds like they're progressing -- at least they are 
still at the table," said Rogers.  GM, which spun off American Axle in 1994 and relies on it 
for parts for its trucks, has taken steps to shut or partly 
shut almost 30 facilities employing over 37,000 workers in the 
United States and Canada because of component shortages.  GM has said 22 plants, including facilities in Michigan, 
Missouri, Wisconsin, Ohio, New York and Indiana, will be shut 
down or shift to shortened work hours starting on Monday.  GM has stopped or slowed work at eight assembly plants 
building its Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra pickup trucks 
and also sport utility vehicles like the Hummer H2.  Some analysts have said GM could be called in to help 
mediate the talks in a bid to move them toward a resolution 
that would allow it to avoid a more costly loss of production.
  IMPACT ON GM IN FOCUS  Analysts say the spreading impact of the strike on GM 
brings a new urgency to the restarted negotiations between the 
UAW and American Axle. The talks had broken down over the 
company's demands for steep wage cuts it says it needs to 
maintain production in the United States.  UAW-represented workers in Michigan and New York went on 
strike against American Axle on February 26. The supplier 
relies on GM for almost 80 percent of its sales.  American Axle has said it needs concessions that would take 
its hourly labor cost in the United States from above $73 per 
hour to between $20 and $30 per hour to be competitive. It has 
also proposed closing plants in New York and some work 
facilities within its sprawling production complex in Detroit.  The UAW has filed an unfair labor practices complaint 
against the company, claiming it had not been sharing key 
financial information with the union during the six months of 
talks that preceded the strike.  Shares of American Axle surged almost 11 percent on Friday 
after KeyBanc Capital Markets analyst Brett Hoselton issued a 
strongly bullish note for clients on the strike.  Hoselton predicted that the company would succeed in 
getting all of its current U.S. workers to accept buyouts or 
one-time payouts in exchange for lower wages, a step he said 
could save the company $50,000 per worker on an annual basis.  "We now believe that 100 percent of the 3,650 UAW workers 
will take either a buyout or a buy-down package," he said.  On a UAW picket line in Detroit, however, strikers were 
adamant that they could not accept the kinds of steep 
concessions sought by the supplier.  "How would anyone feel about a 65-percent pay cut? Whether 
they're making $10 an hour or $50 an hour, they're not going to 
accept that," said Rick Hughes, a 14-year employee.  Mike Jackson, 52, who has spent 31 years with American Axle 
dating back to when it was still part of GM, said the union was 
drawing a line in the sand at a time when it is being pushed 
for concessions from the battered U.S. auto industry.  "We aren't just doing this for ourselves. We're doing it 
for everyone," Jackson said. "This could happen to anybody. 
This isn't about economics. It's about taking a stand."  American Axle posted a net profit of $37 million on $3.2 
billion in sales in 2007.  (Reporting by Kevin Krolicki and Thom Gillis, editing by 
Richard Chang)