-- Carlyle liquidating Blue-Wave hedge fund
-- 
-- Thu Jul 31, 2008 5:35pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/07/31/businesspro-carlyle-bluewave-dc-idUSN3110748320080731

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Carlyle Group CYC.UL, the big 
private equity firm, said on Thursday it is liquidating its 
only hedge fund, Carlyle-Blue Wave Partners Management LP, 
after the fund failed to achieve "critical mass." 

  Carlyle started the multi-strategy fund in April 2007 with 
two former Deutsche Bank ( DBKGn.DE ) executives, Rick Goldsmith 
and Ralph Reynolds. But the fund, which traded debt and equity 
and held about $900 million at its peak, was hurt by widespread 
turmoil in the credit markets and posted losses in 2007.  While it posted returns of about 2 percent in 2008 in a 
subsequent equity-only strategy, beating the S&P 500 index 
 .SPX , Carlyle said it could not sustain the cost of the staff 
and infrastructure, so it chose to liquidate the fund.  "This is an orderly liquidation to ensure fair and 
equitable treatment of all investors," said Chris Ullman, a 
Carlyle spokesman.  The fund liquidation is a setback for Carlyle, which like 
other large private equity firms has sought to diversify its 
"alternative asset" strategies in recent years to better appeal 
to institutional investors.  The fund had a staff of about 40 people, which is large for 
the size of its assets under management, which is now about 
$600 million. Carlyle is a minority partner in the firm.  But other firms, including Blackstone Group LP ( BX.N ) and 
TPG, have been more successful with their hedge funds.  Blackstone owns a $23 billion credit hedge fund, GSO 
Capital, along with a raft of other hedge fund entities, while 
TPG partly owns TPG Axon, an $16 billion-plus hedge fund 
managed by former Goldman Sachs top trader Dinakar Singh.  Ullman said the liquidation in coming months is not 
affecting its main private equity business, which has made 
investments worth $16 billion in enterprise value this year 
alone in 14 transactions. Carlyle is among the largest private 
equity firms with some $83 billion under management.  The liquidation comes amid tough times for the hedge fund 
industry, hurt along with other investment firms by slumping 
equity and credit markets. The industry posted a loss of nearly 
1 percent in the first half, according to Hedge Fund Research, 
a research group.  (Reporting by  Dane Hamilton ; editing by Jeffrey Benkoe)  (Reuters email: dane.hamilton@thomsonreuters.com. 646 223 
6161)