-- Russia's RTS Climbs to Record on Oil; Lukoil, Gazprom Advance
-- Maria Ermakova
-- 2006-11-30T16:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-11-30/russia-s-rts-climbs-to-record-on-oil-lukoil-gazprom-advance.html

          
          
             Stocks in  Russia , the world's
second-largest oil producer behind Saudi Arabia, rose after
crude climbed to a two-month high in New York. The country's
benchmark RTS Index reached a  record .  
 OAO Lukoil (LKOH) , Russia's biggest oil producer, and  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) ,
the world's largest natural gas producer, led the advance.  
 ``Oil prices will keep rising,'' said Sergei Ambartsumov, a
fund manager at Hermitage Capital Management in Moscow, which
has about $3.2 billion in Russian stocks. Most of the companies
in the RTS are still undervalued, he said.  
 The dollar-denominated RTS Index climbed 0.7 percent to
1776.68 at the close of trading in Moscow, rising for an eighth
consecutive day, the longest streak of gains since April. The
measure surpassed a previous record 1765.35 set on May 6. The
ruble-based Micex Index added 0.2 percent to 1550.58.  
 The Russian stock market, the world's biggest emerging
market, is approaching $1 trillion in value, mostly because of
the country's burgeoning oil industry.  
 Crude oil for January delivery rose 0.7 percent to $62.90 a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Futures gained 2.4
percent to $62.46 yesterday, the highest close since Sept. 29,
after a government report showed U.S. fuel supplies unexpectedly
fell last week and on signs forecast cold weather may increase
heating demand.  
 Lukoil rose 1.4 percent to $89. Gazprom advanced 0.9
percent to $11.70.  
 Oil Price Expectation  
 ``There is an expectation that the oil price will rise into
the year's end as a result of winter demand and more assertive
OPEC action at its mid-month meeting,'' Russian broker Alfa Bank
wrote in a daily market report today.  
 The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries last
month agreed to cut 1.2 million barrels of daily output, citing
rising global stockpiles and slower than forecast demand growth.
OPEC, which pumps about 40 percent of the world's oil, will
consider output levels when the group meets in Abuja, Nigeria,
on Dec. 14.  
 Oil has gained 9.8 percent in the past 12 months, helping
the  RTS Index (RTSI$)  surge 71 percent in the period. Energy producers
make up more than half of the weighting of the RTS.  
 Gazprom shares have soared 78 percent in the past year
because of higher oil prices and after President Vladimir Putin
ended restrictions on foreigners owning the stock. Gazprom's
market value reached $276 billion as of today's close, making it
the world's fourth largest public company behind Exxon Mobil
Corp., General Electric Co. and Microsoft Corp.  
 `Stimulating Fund Managers'  
 The decline of the U.S. dollar against other currencies is
also helping the Russian market because it ``is stimulating fund
managers to invest in so-called real assets, such as the ruble,
stocks and real estate,'' Hermitage's Ambartsumov said.  
 The dollar dropped to a 20-month low against the euro and
was the weakest in three months versus the yen this week on
speculation a slowing U.S. economy will prompt the Federal
Reserve to cut interest rates.  
 The Russian ruble has gained 8.8 percent against the dollar
over the past 12 months. Rubles for delivery tomorrow rose 0.2
percent to 26.30 rubles per dollar today on the Moscow Interbank
Currency Exchange.  
 Shares of AFK Sistema, a financial holding controlled by
billionaire Vladimir Yevtushenko, advanced 2.2 percent to $27.75
in  London , after surging 4.6 percent yesterday. Sistema owned by
increased its stakes in two Bashkortostan petrochemical
companies to more than 25 percent, as it tries to build a
vertically integrated oil business, the company said Nov. 28.  
 OAO VimpelCom, Russia's second-largest mobile-phone
company, increased 3.1 percent to $75.29 in New York. Third-
quarter profit rose 38 percent to $268.4 million as the company
added more customers. That beat the $247 million median estimate
of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Ermakova in Moscow at 
 mermakova@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balduin Hesse in London at 
 bhesse2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        