-- Manny on Drugs Argues for a Baseball Doctor: Roger Lowenstein
-- Roger Lowenstein
-- 2009-05-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-05-11/manny-on-drugs-argues-for-a-baseball-doctor-roger-lowenstein.html

          
          
             In my household in Boston, only a few
people are instantly recognizable by their first names. That
would include me, my wife Judy and her kids and the big fellow
with the flying dreadlocks.  
 “Did you hear the news about Manny?” Judy e-mailed me
Thursday.  
 For those who live on another planet or don’t know that
grass was invented to cover outfields,  Manny Ramirez  is the
Dominican-born left fielder who became a star with the Cleveland
Indians and a savior with the Boston Red Sox. He led the latter
to a World Series  triumph  in 2004 and again in 2007, the first
ending a victory-less drought of 86 years.  
 Now playing for the Los Angeles Dodgers, he was suspended
for 50 games for testing positive for human chorionic
gonadotropin ( hCG ), a women’s fertility drug. Transplanted New
York Yankees fans like me, boiling over the drug-related scandal
involving  Alex Rodriguez , may be accused of gloating at our
rival’s misfortune.  
 But what I really felt, once I cleared my head of the CDOs
I had been writing about, was this: Why did he do it? And the
answer is pretty obvious. Money. No one in the current baseball
era swung more freely or more fearlessly. And no one delivered
better  results  (533 career homers, lifetime batting average of
.315).  
 Ramirez didn’t have to do it. And had he not played in an
era in which stars are paid $20 million plus per season, I don’t
think he would have. Not even Ramirez can know whether that is
true, although he was eager, at age 36, to bolt to a fourth team
for more pay. (Poor little lamb, he had to settle for the
Dodgers’ offer of $45 million over two years, adding to the $162
million earned in 15 previous seasons).  
 Pay Convergence  
 It’s reasonable to assume that if salaries for stars
weren’t in eight figures, many more athletes would play it
clean. I have spent much of the last 20 years writing about
excessive compensation, usually of corporate executives. Sports
I followed only for pleasure. But now, profession and pleasure
seem to be converging.  
 Even before the season started, Ramirez’s scoffing at the
Dodgers’ initial $40 million offer ticked me off. If bankers
were being made to forgo, at least for a season, bonuses from
the institutions they had brought to ruin, why not left
fielders? And should the Yankees be recouping player salaries at
a taxpayer-supported facility at which “non-premium” seats go
for an average of $72, and premium tickets for much more?  
 In a market system, of course, there are no “shoulds”:
People are entitled to earn what the market bears. But gross
distortions in pay are often a sign that the market isn’t
working. This is true in business and in sports.  
 Free Distortions  
 No “free” market would award  Aubrey McClendon , chief
executive officer of  Chesapeake Energy Corp. , $100 million for
his services in a year in which the Oklahoma City-based
company’s stock fell 58 percent and its earnings fell by half.
But Chesapeake’s board, which is stuffed with cronies and ex-
Oklahoma politicians, did. McClendon had borrowed against his
stock and faced margin calls. Rather than let him suffer the
just rewards of capitalism, the board bailed him out.  
 The market disconnect is that shareholders, thanks to a
dysfunctional proxy system, have no voice over the directors who
control their investment.  
 In sports, the disconnect is harder to see. It is tempting
to think that high salaries drive up ticket prices, but the
causality probably works the other way: the Yankees’ high
revenue enables them to pay league-leading wages.  
 Social Value  
 But it’s not so simple. In a true market system, as  Steven Malanga  of the  Manhattan Institute  has pointed out, teams from
Minnesota and Kansas City would relocate to New York.
Financially speaking, a small share of Gotham is more valuable
than a monopoly in Cleveland.  
 Major League Baseball doesn’t permit this. It recognizes
that the Yankees’ value depends on there being teams in other
cities (not just Boston and L.A.) to compete against. And the
Supreme Court recognized the social value to national sports
leagues in 1922 when it declared that baseball was exempt from
antitrust laws.  
 “Labor” was later allowed to opt out from this closed
market, meaning players can  auction  their services to the
highest bidder.  
 But the exemption still shackles the fans, who have no
ability to demand a third team in New York, or a fourth -- or
however many would be necessary to bring ticket prices down to
reasonable levels. The solution is to recognize that since
baseball isn’t a market system, it should be fully regulated.  
 Leveling Off  
 At present, the Yankees, Dodgers and Red Sox leech off
small-market teams. They are worth more because the Royals
docilely remain in Kansas City, where they have no hope of
retaining high-priced talent. Since MLB doesn’t let the market
level off such inequities, the league or Congress should do so.
Either truly share revenues among the teams -- at present, MLB
has an ineffective luxury tax -- or require that high-market
tickets and salaries be, say, no more than 25 percent above the
league mean.  
 Fans in Pittsburgh could again hope for a competitive team.
Fans in New York wouldn’t have to go to Pittsburgh to afford a
seat. Players might benefit, too.  
 Aubrey McClendon probably will never realize how the
prospect of undeserved fortune corrupted him. But when Ramirez,
who once played the game with such youthful abandon, sees what
has become of his name, he will.  
 ( Roger Lowenstein , author of “When Genius Failed,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the author of this column:
Roger Lowenstein at  elrogl@hotmail.com   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Manny Ramirez is shown in this file photo in Tokyo from when he was a player with the Boston Red Sox. Ramirez, now with the Los Angeles Dodgers, was banned from the MLB for 50 games after failing a drug test. Photographer: Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
