-- Abu Dhabi Shares Rise to April-High on Earnings Outlook, Growth Prospects
-- B y   A h m e d   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   C l a u d i a   M a e d l e r
-- 2010-10-25T12:23:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/abu-dhabi-shares-climb-to-april-high-as-global-markets-gain-egypt-rises.html
Abu Dhabi shares gained to the
highest since April as improving third-quarter earnings and a
pickup in economic growth spurred demand for local assets.  First Gulf Bank PJSC, the United Arab Emirates’ lender
owned by Abu Dhabi’s ruling family, advanced for a sixth day and
 National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC , the country’s second-largest
lender, climbed to the highest in almost six weeks. Aldar
Properties PJSC jumped 2.7 percent. The  ADX General Index  rose
0.4 percent to 2,833.09, the highest since April 15, at the 2
p.m. close. Dubai’s  DFM General Index  advanced 0.4 percent. The
 MSCI Emerging Markets Index  increased 1 percent.  “Investor confidence is coming back with positive bank
earnings expected, especially from Abu Dhabi banks,” Nabil
Farhat, partner at Abu Dhabi-based Al Fajer Securities, said by
telephone. “The amount of negative news that used to bombard
the markets in the past two years is coming down.”  NBAD may say third-quarter profit rose 11 percent to 1.01
billion dirhams ($275 million), according to the median estimate
of five analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Abu Dhabi Commercial
Bank PJSC , the U.A.E.’s third-biggest bank, may say profit
soared to 202 million dirhams from 34.8 million dirhams a year
earlier, according to the median estimate of five analysts
compiled by Bloomberg.  The International Monetary Fund raised its growth forecast
for the U.A.E. this year to 2.4 percent from 1.3 percent. In
2011, growth will accelerate to 3.2 percent.  Oil Gains  Emerging-market stocks rose as corporate earnings bolstered
confidence in the region’s economy and global funds bought more
shares in Asian developing nations.  European stocks  rose after
Group of 20 finance chiefs pledged to avoid weakening currencies
to lift exports as they sought to calm fears of a global trade
war.  Crude oil jumped for a second day, gaining as much as 1.6
percent to $82.99 a barrel as investors bought contracts against
a weakening dollar and Hurricane Richard headed for the Gulf of
Mexico, home to 31 percent of U.S. crude production. The six
nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council, including the U.A.E.
and Saudi Arabia, supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  First Gulf Bank climbed 2.8 percent to 16.55 dirhams,
bringing the six-day gain to 8.5 percent. NBAD rose 1.3 percent
to 12 dirhams, the highest since Sept. 14. Abu Dhabi Commercial
Bank was unchanged at 2.48 dirhams.  Aldar  advanced to 2.66 dirhams, the highest level in three
months, on speculation Abu Dhabi’s biggest real-estate developer
will receive state funding after property prices dropped 30
percent from their peak.  Government Support  “People are speculating that the government will support a
favorable refinancing for Aldar’s debt,” said Saad al-Chalabi,
an institutional trader at Al Ramz Securities in Abu Dhabi.  The Bloomberg  GCC 200 Index  gained 0.6 percent at 3:30 p.m.
in Dubai, while Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index  added 0.3
percent. Qatar’s  QE Index  advanced 0.2 percent, Kuwait’s gauge
gained 1 percent and Oman’s  MSM30 Index  rose 0.4 percent.
Bahrain’s  gauge  slipped 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story: Ahmed A Namatalla in
Cairo at   anamatalla@bloomberg.net ; Claudia
Maedler at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 