-- Alonso Takes F-1 Championship Lead as Red Bulls Flop in Korean Grand Prix
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y   a n d   S h i n h y e   K a n g
-- 2010-10-24T15:44:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/alonso-takes-f-1-championship-lead-as-red-bulls-flop-in-korean-grand-prix.html
Fernando Alonso  warned his Ferrari
team to stay focused as he moved closer to his third Formula One
drivers’ title with victory in a rain-swept Korean Grand Prix
yesterday.  The result in Yeongam vaulted the Spaniard over  Mark Webber 
into an 11-point lead with two races left. Red Bull failed to
score a point, Webber crashing out early and  Sebastian Vettel ’s
engine blowing up as he looked poised to win.  Lewis Hamilton  of
McLaren and Ferrari’s  Felipe Massa  were second and third.  Alonso was quick to say there’s still everything to play
for as he seeks to add to his championships in 2005 and 2006.
Yesterday was his fifth win this season and the third in the
last four races.  “Winning here is fantastic and every race we go to we aim
to win, but that is not possible every weekend,” he told
reporters. “We know with the new points system anything can
happen in one race. If you don’t score, you lose 25 points with
one of your main opponents.”  Alonso, who now has 26 career wins, is on 231 points,
followed by Webber (220), Hamilton (210), Vettel (206) and
McLaren’s  Jenson Button  (189). Race winners get 25 points,
compared with 10 under the old system.  “One result for one race does not change the picture of
the championship,” Alonso said. He started third on the grid
behind the Red Bulls, who he acknowledged had bad luck. “We
knew before coming here that every race is important to finish.
Being on the podium and being consistent is maybe key to the
championship.”  Start Delayed  The inaugural Korean Grand Prix was delayed after heavy
rain lashed the circuit, then the race was held up again after
the drivers ran three laps behind the safety car.  On the re-start, the safety car was again leading the way
for the first 17 laps. Two laps later, Webber spun into a wall
before colliding with Nico Rosberg’s Mercedes, resulting in both
drivers being put out of the race.  “Totally my fault,” Webber told the British Broadcasting
Corp. “It wasn’t my day, and I collected Nico as well.
Positions are not important, the points are the most important
thing. This is my second non-finish of the year, but there are
still two races to go. I’ll do my absolute best.”  In all, the safety car came out four times as treacherous
conditions saw eight drivers, including Virgin duo Lucas di
Grassi and  Timo Glock  and Renault’s  Vitaly Petrov , failing to
finish because of accidents.  Vettel looked set for a second straight victory from pole
position -- which would have put him in the lead in the
standings -- only for his engine to fail nine laps from the end.
Alonso took advantage amid the fading light, steering his car to
the chequered flag.  Mercedes Fourth  Mercedes’s Michael Schumacher came fourth, followed by
 Robert Kubica  (Renault), Vitantonio Liuzzi (Force India), and
 Rubens Barrichello  (Williams). Kamui Kobayashi and  Nick Heidfeld 
of Sauber and  Nico Hulkenberg  of Williams were the other points-
scorers. Last year’s champion Button was 12th, virtually ending
his title ambitions.  “I’m not really (still a contender), people would need to
have massive problems for me to win,” Button told the BBC. “I
can’t do anything but laugh, that was a hysterical race. I just
had no grip. I was pretty much the slowest car out there, it was
a pretty horrific day.”  His teammate Hamilton was happier.  “It was a great result that I’m very happy with,” he told
reporters. “Fernando did a fantastic job, but he generally had
more grip and at the end my tires were shot, so it was just a
case of bringing the car home and trying to score as many
points” as possible.  It was the first time this season that Red Bull failed to
score, although it still leads the constructors’ championship
with 426 points, ahead of McLaren (399), and Ferrari (374).  The final races of the 19-event season, at Sao Paulo and
Abu Dhabi, are on Nov. 7 and Nov. 14, respectively.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net ;
 Shinhye Kang  in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  