-- Alex Ferguson Defends Manchester United's Ambition After 2-1 Win at Stoke
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2010-10-24T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/manchester-united-beats-stoke-city-2-1-to-move-to-2nd-in-premier-league.html
Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  told fans to trust his squad after a 2-1 win at Stoke
City, at the end of a week when Wayne Rooney questioned the
club’s ambition in the transfer market.  The striker said Oct. 20 that he wanted to leave, before
two days later agreeing to a five-year contract with the Premier
League soccer club, saying he was convinced his concerns could
be addressed. In his absence through injury yesterday, Javier
Hernandez scored twice in United’s first away victory in the
league this season.  “We know how to build teams, we’ve been doing it for
years,” Ferguson told the club’s website. “And we’ve always
had a foundation of young players who develop within the club.
In three years you’ll see a different United.”  United sits third in the standings, tied on points with
Arsenal and Manchester City and five points behind defending
champion Chelsea. Arsenal beat 10-man City 3-0 yesterday to go
second, while Liverpool defeated Blackburn 2-1.  United had drawn its four previous away matches and let
slip a two-goal lead to tie at home to West Bromwich Albion last
weekend.  Hernandez -- who bears the nickname Chicharito, or “Little
Pea” on his jersey -- ensured that run was ended, taking his
tally of goals to five in 10 matches.  The 22-year-old was among United’s summer signings, along
with 20-year-olds Chris Smalling and Bebe, as Ferguson focused
on acquiring youngsters rather than established players.
Hernandez is the only one of the three to start a league game so
far.  Hernandez Strikes  The Mexican gave the visitors a halftime lead at the
Britannia Stadium, putting the ball into the net from close
range with the back of his head while facing away from goal.  Gary Neville  -- making his 600th appearance for United --
was replaced by Wes Brown for the second half to avoid getting a
second yellow card. He escaped a booking near the end of the
first half for a foul on  Matthew Etherington .  Stoke looked set for a point when substitute Tuncay fired
past  Edwin van der Sar  with nine minutes remaining. The Turkey
forward cut in from the right before unleashing a shot into the
far corner for Stoke’s first Premier League goal against United.  United responded five minutes later as Hernandez reacted
first to poke a misdirected shot by  Patrice Evra  past  Thomas Sorensen .  “That’s been a quality of this club for many, many years,
we never give in and actually I thought we started to play after
we lost the goal, really for the first time in the match,”
Ferguson said.  Arsenal Victory  Samir Nasri ,  Alex Song  and  Nicklas Bendtner  gave Arsenal a
win at Eastlands.  The Gunners ended City’s four-match winning run in the
league, taking advantage of a fifth-minute red card for the home
team’s center-back Dedryck Boyata.  Arsenal goalkeeper Lukasz Fabianski made several stops as
City attempted to get back in the game after going behind, while
Joe Hart saved a 40th-minute penalty kick from Gunners captain
Cesc Fabregas.  Nasri clipped the ball over Hart for the opener after 20
minutes, and Song fired into the corner on 66 minutes, with
Bendtner running at City’s defense before placing a low shot
into the net with two minutes remaining.  Liverpool recorded its second league win of the season,
with goals from  Sotirios Kyrgiakos  and  Fernando Torres  at
Anfield. Blackburn’s reply came from an own goal by  Jamie Carragher .  The Reds remain third-last in the 20-team standings, but
are now only one point behind city rival Everton in 11th.  Two days ago, Chelsea beat Wolverhampton Wanderers 2-0,
Newcastle won 2-1 at West Ham, Tottenham tied 1-1 against
Everton, and West Brom defeated Fulham 2-1, while Sunderland won
1-0 against Aston Villa. Birmingham beat Blackpool 2-0, and
Bolton drew 1-1 at Wigan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 