-- Markets Smell Recovery as Consumers Drive Retail Sales
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2010-10-24T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/markets-smell-recovery-gaining-as-consumers-drive-retail-sales.html
American shoppers are set to become
the economy’s new source of strength.  Economists lifted estimates for consumer purchases in the
third quarter after  retail sales  climbed more than forecast in
September and the government said gains in the prior two months
were larger than previously reported. Predictions of a 3 percent
or more increase by RBS Securities Inc. and 2.6 percent by
Morgan Stanley would mean the most robust household spending of
the recovery.  “Consumers are taking the baton as a driver of the
expansion,” said  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at Barclays
Capital Inc. in New York. “While it is still a moderate
recovery, the speed is going to be stronger than many people
think.”  His outlook puts him in the minority among his peers: While
a Bloomberg News survey of economists this month showed an
increase in the median forecast for third-quarter consumption to
2 percent from 1.9 percent, estimates for the fourth quarter and
2011, at 2 percent and 2.2 percent respectively, were unchanged
from the previous survey.  The “painfully slow recovery in the labor market” is
keeping the expansion “less vigorous” than policy makers would
like and may warrant additional monetary stimulus, Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in an Oct. 15 speech in
Boston.  Even with unemployment stalled near  10 percent , Americans
are ready to play a bigger role in the rebound because their
incomes are improving and they have been paying off debt and
rebuilding wealth, said Maki, who specialized in researching
household finances at the Fed from 1995 to 2000 and was ranked
the most-accurate forecaster of gross domestic product in a
December 2009 Bloomberg News survey.  $4,000 Watch  Brad Shepard, 35, co-owner of an Atlanta management
consulting firm, has seen an increase in business recently as
new clients seek ways to boost customer service and raise
revenue. So two weeks ago, he bought a $4,000 Bell & Ross watch.  “It is a luxury that I had been looking at for quite a
while,” he said. “Business has been picking up, and it seemed
like time to reward myself.”  Investors are already betting that consumer spending, which
accounts for about 70 percent of the economy, will be healthier
in the next few months than some economists are predicting. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing Index  is up 14 percent this
year, and the Consumer Discretionary Select Sector SPDR Fund has
risen 17 percent compared with a 6.1 percent gain in the  broader
S&P gauge .  ‘Recovery is Coming’  “The markets can smell a recovery is coming,” said  James Paulsen , chief investment strategist in Minneapolis for Wells
Capital Management, which manages $342 billion. “We’re en route
to accelerating. It’ll make the soft patch seem more like just a
soft patch.”  Cincinnati-based  Macy’s Inc.  may jump 22 percent in the
next 12 months, according to the average analysts’ target-share
price compiled by Bloomberg News after the stock market closed
Oct. 22.  Nordstrom Inc. , based in Seattle, may rise 18 percent,
 Kohl’s Corp.  of Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin, 16.5 percent, and
Minneapolis-based  Target Corp. , 16 percent.  Jeweler  Tiffany & Co.  in New York may gain 6 percent; and
 Apple Inc. , the Cupertino, California-based maker of iPads,
iPhones and laptop computers, will see a 20 percent gain, the
data show.  Paulsen said he’s counting on an improvement in consumer
confidence, which has been  stuck  below pre-recession levels for
the past year amid record  home foreclosures  and the loss of more
than 8 million jobs during the slump. He predicts sentiment will
recover once the Nov. 2 midterm elections are over, uncertainty
about tax cuts is resolved, and company hiring ramps up,
providing a boost for next year.  Bullish Forecast  He estimates the economy expanded at least 2 percent in the
third quarter, helped by a gain in consumption of about 2.5
percent. Maki is more bullish, projecting growth of about 2.5
percent as spending jumped as much as 3 percent.  Consumer purchases  rose  2.2 percent in the second quarter,
and economic growth cooled to 1.7 percent from 5 percent in the
final quarter of 2009. The Commerce Department will release
third quarter data on Oct. 29.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the world’s biggest retailer, is
optimistic about customers, with Chief Executive Officer  Mike Duke  predicting “positive” fourth-quarter sales at U.S. stores
open at least a year after five consecutive quarters of
declines.  “I feel good about our U.S. plans,” Duke said during an
Oct. 13 investor conference in Rogers, Arkansas.  ‘Cash for Clunkers’  Retail sales  rose 0.6 percent in September, helped by
broad-based gains that showed households are learning to cope
without government stimulus, according to data released Oct. 15.
Cars and light-duty trucks sold at an 11.6 million seasonally
adjusted  annual pace  in the third quarter, industry data show,
the fastest since the same period last year, when a “cash-for-
clunkers” program propelled demand.  Russell Geller, owner of Beck Chevrolet in Yonkers, New
York, said he has begun planning his first major renovation
since at least 2000 as part of a voluntary program for  General
Motors Co.  dealers.  “It’s encouraging that you can say to yourself ‘I will
reinvest in my facility because things will be coming
forward,’” Geller said. “A year ago, you didn’t know where
exactly your business was going to be.”  Bernanke, in the Oct. 15 speech, said the “handoff is
currently under way” for a recovery driven by consumer
spending, net exports and business and residential investment
rather than one fueled by government support.  Ease Monetary Policy  About 70 percent of President  Barack Obama ’s estimated $787
billion stimulus has been spent, according to a September White
House  report . The Fed’s steps to ease monetary policy included
cutting the  benchmark interest rate  in December 2008 to a range
of zero to 0.25 percent and buying $1.7 trillion of securities.
Bernanke, who will meet with the policy-making Federal Open
Market Committee Nov. 3, has said additional purchases may be
warranted because inflation is too low and unemployment, at or
above  9.5 percent  since August 2009, is too high.  The Fed’s preferred inflation gauge, which excludes food
and energy, was up 1.4 percent in August from a year earlier,
below the central bank’s longer-run goal of 1.7 percent to 2
percent price growth.  While inflation is a concern for the Fed, it is helping
workers’ buying power. After-tax income, adjusted for inflation,
 climbed  1.7 percent in the 12 months through August, the biggest
year-over-year gain since April 2009, two months before the 18-
month  recession  ended.  Improving Conditions  Three in five respondents in a Bloomberg National Poll
taken Oct. 7-10 say their economic condition has improved
recently or they are confident it will get better. One in three
say things have gotten worse or aren’t likely to get better
anytime soon.  The improving outlook, along with low inflation and the
rising stock market, are “positive” for Democrats, who will
win 49.3 percent of the national vote in next month’s balloting,
said  Ray Fair , a Yale University economist who developed a
formula using economic data that would have correctly predicted
all but three presidential elections since 1916.  “If the economy is better now than people had thought,
that’s got to be a slight help for Democrats,” Fair said. While
they may lose control of the U.S. House of Representatives, “it
looks like the election will be relatively close.”  Discretionary Purchases  The National Retail Federation projects that sales during
November and December will rise 2.3 percent from a year ago, the
most in four years. Americans plan to spend an average of
$688.87, 1 percent more than 2009, and may step up discretionary
purchases, according to a survey for the Washington-based group
by BIGresearch.  “We feel good about the momentum thus far,”  Brian Goldner , chief executive officer of Pawtucket, Rhode Island-
based  Hasbro Inc. , said during an Oct. 18 conference call. New
toys are selling well at retailers, and “we expect a very
robust holiday season,” he said.  The strength will carry consumer stocks higher into next
year, according to  Richard Hastings , a Charlotte, North
Carolina-based consumer strategist for Global Hunter Securities
LLC.  “The underlying economy continues to improve, very slowly
for sure,” Hastings said. “We expect retailers and consumer
names to offer some surprises regarding 2011 guidance that could
help boost the sector.”  Disposable Income  Consumer credit has fallen  nearly every month  since mid-
2008 as Americans paid off loans and borrowed less, according to
the Fed, and debt payments as a share of disposable income
dropped to  12.1 percent  in the second quarter, the lowest in a
decade.  Households are better positioned to support the recovery
next year and beyond than widely perceived, said  Joseph Carson ,
director of global economic research at AllianceBernstein LP in
New York.  Their reduced debt burden “could well provide the
firepower for a stronger consumer-spending cycle in 2011,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net 
 Cotten Timberlake  in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  