-- Australia Banks Set to Top Pre-Crisis Profits as Bad Debts Ease
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2010-10-24T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/australia-banks-set-to-top-pre-crisis-profit-as-bad-debts-ease-mines-boom.html
Three of Australia’s four largest
banks are set to post second-half profits that match or exceed
earnings before the global financial crisis as bad debts ease in
an economy benefiting from the biggest mining boom in a century.  Net income at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. 
rose 66 percent to a record A$2.53 billion ($2.5 billion) in the
six months through Sept. 30 from a year earlier, according to
the median estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
 National Australia Bank Ltd.  returned to profit and  Westpac
Banking Corp.  may post its best-ever second-half result,
analysts forecast.  The results “will likely show solid” growth, said
 Jonathan Mott , a banking analyst at UBS AG in Sydney.
“Unfortunately for the banks, they have less direct exposure to
the resources and mining services boom and substantial exposure
to the domestic economy, which remains patchy and more rate
sensitive.”  Australian lenders, having remained profitable through the
global credit squeeze, now face waning demand for loans among
households and businesses and increased funding costs. Chief
Executive Officers at Westpac, ANZ Bank and Commonwealth Bank of
Australia said this month that mortgage rates will need to rise
to cover the increased cost of raising capital to fund loans.  The six-member  S&P/ASX 200 banks index  has dropped 7.3
percent this year, underperforming the benchmark S&P/ASX 200
Index, which has lost 4.6 percent. Shares of ANZ Bank climbed
2.3 percent this year, compared with a 10.7 percent slump for
National Australia and Westpac’s 11.3 percent decline.  UBS has a “buy” rating on shares of ANZ Bank and is
“neutral” on Westpac and National Australia Bank.  Rate Rises  Australian mortgage lending growth rose 8.1 percent in
August from a year earlier, the weakest pace in 10 months, the
Reserve Bank of Australia said last month. Business lending
slumped 4 percent from a year earlier.  Demand for borrowing cooled after central bank Governor
 Glenn Stevens  led Group of 20 policy makers by boosting
borrowing costs in six quarter-percentage point steps between
October 2009 and May to  4.5 percent . The bank said last week
that its decision to keep the rate unchanged this month was
“finely balanced.”  National Australia, led by CEO  Cameron Clyne , will report
second-half net income of A$2.37 billion, compared with a loss
of A$75 million a year earlier when charges for bad debts surged,
according to the median estimate of seven analysts. That will be
the lender’s largest second-half profit in three years.  Cash earnings at Westpac, which has the nation’s largest
branch network after its purchase of St. George Bank Ltd.,
climbed 24 percent to A$2.9 billion in the six months to Sept.
30, according to the median of seven analyst estimates.  National Australia is due to release results on Oct. 27,
ANZ Bank on Oct. 28 and Westpac on Nov. 3. Commonwealth Bank,
the nation’s biggest lender, is scheduled to release its
September quarter trading update on Nov. 15.  Following is a table of median estimates, year-earlier
results and the number of analysts surveyed. All figures are in
millions of Australian dollars.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  