-- Bahrain Election Turnout Dropped to 67%; Shiites Reported to Take 18 Seats
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2010-10-24T08:10:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/bahrain-election-turnout-dropped-to-67-shiites-reported-to-take-18-seats.html
Voter turnout in parliamentary
elections in Bahrain declined to 67 percent following campaign
clashes between police and members of the country’s Shiite
Muslim majority, a senior official said today.  That result compared with a 72 percent turnout in the last
parliamentary elections in 2006.  Bahrain’s largest Shiite opposition group, Al-Wefaq,
alleged that hundreds of voters were turned away from polling
stations, said Khalil Al Marzooq, a candidate for the group,
speaking in an interview yesterday.  There were only “a number of infringements reported which
will be addressed in the legally prescribed manner,” Sheikh
 Khalid bin Ali Al Khalifa , the country’s minister of justice and
Islamic affairs, said in an e-mailed statement today.  The vote in the Persian Gulf island kingdom, home to the
U.S. Fifth Fleet, is the third since constitutional changes in
2001, with candidates competing for 40 seats in the lower house
of parliament. About 318,000 people are registered to vote in
Bahrain, where expatriates number more than half of the
population of some 1 million. Polls closed yesterday at 8 p.m.  “Early indications point to a minimum turnout of 67
percent,” the minister said.  Since August, when a crackdown on opposition activists led
to 23 people being charged with terrorism offenses, protesters
hurling Molotov cocktails and stones have clashed repeatedly
with security forces. Authorities detained several hundred
people after the confrontations.  The main Shiite opposition participated in the elections
yesterday. Other parties such as the Haq Movement, several of
whose leaders were arrested in August, have rejected the
elections as illegitimate and refused to take part.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glen Carey  in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 