-- Bahrain Shiites Fail to Gain Majority in Election, Expand Legislative Bloc
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2010-10-24T18:15:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/bahrain-shiites-fail-to-gain-majority-in-election-expand-legislative-bloc.html
Bahrain’s main Shiite opposition
increased its representation in parliament, though fell short of
obtaining control, in elections that followed clashes between
police and members of the nation’s Shiite Muslim majority.  The group won 18 seats out of a total of 40 in the voting
yesterday, according to the Supreme Committee for Elections. At
least nine seats will face runoff elections on Oct. 30. None of
those involve Shiite candidates, said Khalil Al Marzooq, deputy
head of the largest Shiite opposition party, Al-Wefaq. Shiite
groups held 17 seats in the legislature after 2006 elections.  “We won the maximum seats we could achieve,” Abduljalil
Khalil, a member of Al-Wefaq in parliament said in an interview.
“Al-Wefaq will work for every citizen, not just Shiite. We are
participating to have a say in decision making.”  Voter turnout was 67 percent, compared with 72 percent in
the previous election.  The vote in the Persian Gulf island kingdom, home to the
U.S. Fifth Fleet, was the third since constitutional changes in
2001. Since August, when a crackdown on opposition activists led
to 23 being charged with terrorism offenses, protesters hurling
Molotov cocktails and stones have repeatedly clashed with
security forces and several hundred have been detained.  Parliament can only pass laws with the assent of the upper
chamber, whose members are chosen by the king. Sheikh Hamad bin
Isa Al Khalifa, 60, reinstated parliament when he came to power
in 1999 after an earlier body was dissolved in 1975. The royal
family is Sunni.  Social Housing  “Nobody in Al-Wefaq is thinking about overthrowing the
ruling family,” Khalil said. “We want to address land
corruption, and now the government controls property,” he said.
“The government used to say that there was no land available for
social housing. There is land. The government mishandled this.”  Hundreds of voters were turned away from polling stations,
said Marzooq, who won a seat in the balloting.  There were only “a number of infringements reported which
will be addressed in the legally prescribed manner,” Sheikh
Khalid bin Ali Al Khalifa, the minister of justice and Islamic
affairs, said in a statement.  The government said the election was intended to give all
citizens representation.  “People are angry about government interference in my
district,” said Ebrahim Sharif, a former banker who is one of
the candidates in the runoff. “This is going to be in my favor.
I may get enough protest votes to win.”  As Much as 70%  While the main Shiite opposition contested the elections
yesterday, other parties such as the Haq Movement, several of
whose leaders were arrested in August, rejected it as
illegitimate and didn’t take part.  Shiites make up between 60 and 70 percent of Bahrain’s
population.  Bahrain’s royal family has close ties with their neighbors
in Sunni-ruled Saudi Arabia. Many among Bahrain’s poor, mostly
Shiite community retain cultural and family ties with Shiite-
dominated Iran, Saudi Arabia’s main regional rival.  The elections come after a slowdown in Bahrain’s oil and
financial services-based economy. Growth slowed to 3.1 percent
in 2009, less than half the previous year’s pace. The
International Monetary Fund forecasts growth of 4 percent this
year.  Bahrain established a reputation starting in the 1970s as a
center for offshore banking. Its financial industry still
contributes 25 percent of gross domestic product, according to
the central bank.  Bahrain’s crude oil production, once the country’s main
revenue earner, peaked in 1970. Domestic oil output dropped 0.5
percent in 2009 to 66.5 million barrels for the year, the
central bank says. That’s about the same amount as neighboring
Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest producer, pumped last year in
an average week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glen Carey  in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 