-- BOJ May Leave Policy Unchanged After Cutting Rates to Near Zero
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2010-10-24T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/bank-of-japan-may-leave-policy-unchanged-after-cutting-rates-to-near-zero.html
The Bank of Japan will probably
leave policy unchanged this week to gauge whether cutting
 interest rates  to near zero and pledging to buy financial assets
will shield the economy from the yen’s advance to a 15-year high.  All 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News say the bank
will refrain from any action at its Oct. 28 gathering after
unexpectedly cutting rates on Oct. 5 and creating a 5 trillion-
yen fund ($62 billion) to purchase assets including corporate
bonds, exchange-traded funds and real-estate investment trusts.
The board is likely to discuss the types of company debt to buy.  This month’s moves failed to stem the yen’s climb, putting
pressure on profits at exporters from Sony Corp. to Toyota Motor
Corp. and threatening to fuel deflation. BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  may have to further ease policy if the Federal Reserve
engages in more quantitative easing to shore up growth,
exacerbating the dollar’s decline.  “The government and businesses will likely urge the BOJ to
do more,” said  Akio Makabe , a professor of economics at Shinshu
University in Matsumoto, central Japan. “Depending on moves in
the currency and financial markets, the central bank may have to
act again within the year.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Oct. 15 that there
appears to be a “case for further action,” an indication that
U.S. policy makers may start a second round of unconventional
monetary stimulus when they meet on Nov. 3. The prospect of
additional Fed easing sent the yen as high as 80.85 last week,
the strongest level since April 1995.  Fed’s Influence  “Developments in the BOJ’s monetary policy in coming
months will be heavily influenced by the Fed’s decisions and
currency market moves,” said  Hiromichi Shirakawa , a former BOJ
official and now chief Japan economist at Credit Suisse Group AG
in Tokyo.  Currencies dominated discussions at a meeting of Group of
20 finance chiefs in South Korea last weekend. They pledged to
avoid “competitive devaluations” to boost exports and instead
let markets increasingly set foreign exchange values to defuse
mounting trade tensions before they hurt the world economy.  The Japanese currency has risen more than 5 percent since
the government stepped into the market for the first time in six
years and sold more than 2 trillion yen in September.  The Nikkei
225 Stock Average  has slumped 1.5 percent in the past month.  “For Japanese companies, 90 yen is the limit” for
profitability,  Tadashi Okamura , former chairman of Toshiba Corp.
and now head of Japan Chamber of Commerce, said on Oct. 21.  Lower-Rated Debt  The BOJ may consider purchasing BBB-rated corporate bonds
and a-2 commercial paper at the gathering this week, three
people with direct knowledge of the discussions said. Buying
lower-grade securities would go beyond the bank’s 2009 corporate
debt purchases that followed the global financial crisis and
were limited to bonds rated A or higher and a-1 commercial paper.  With money-market rates already low, the central bank is
turning to purchases of riskier assets to reduce borrowing costs.
The bank has already said it will devote 1 trillion yen of its
latest fund to corporate debt, 3.5 trillion yen to government
bonds and the rest for ETFs and J-REITs.  “It was a big surprise that the BOJ embarked on buying of
risky assets like ETFs and J-REITs, probably because it can’t
find much room left to buy up other assets that will make an
impact,” said  Teizo Taya , a former BOJ board member and now an
adviser of the Daiwa Research Institute.  The government last week lowered its assessment of the
economy for the first time in 20 months. Prime Minister Naoto
Kan wants to submit his 5 trillion yen stimulus package to
parliament on Oct. 29, paving the way to pump more money into an
economy that some analysts forecast will shrink this quarter.  Growth, Price Outlook  Shirakawa and his board will update their predictions for
economic growth and inflation for fiscal 2010 and 2011 at the
meeting, as well as publish estimates for the year ending March
2013 for the first time.  They will probably avoid downgrading their price forecast
for next fiscal year to a negative figure from the current 0.1
percent increase, according to three people with knowledge of
the matter. The latest monetary stimulus measures will boost the
economy and prices, one of the people said. Another said recent
gains in commodity costs and an increase in the tobacco tax
introduced this month will also bolster prices.  The BOJ forecasts  consumer prices  excluding fresh food will
slide 0.4 percent in the current fiscal year, the second
straight annual decline. The board this month pledged to keep
rates near zero until “price stability is in sight.”  Policy Commitment  That promise is “tantamount to an official statement that
the current policy duration will be extended at least into the
year ending March 2013,” said  Takehiro Sato , Japan chief
economist at Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co. in Tokyo.  Japan’s economy will expand 2.6 percent in the year to
March 2011 and slow to 1.9 percent in the following year, the
policy makers said in July.  That’s more optimistic than economists, who predict 2
percent growth in the current fiscal year and 1.1 percent in the
next, according to the median estimate of 15 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. Prices will decline 1 percent this year and drop
0.2 percent in the following period, they said. In fiscal 2012,
Japan will grow 1.7 percent and prices will rise 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
 Masahiro Hidaka  in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  