-- Basquiat’s Scrawls, Larry Clark’s Junkies, Tease Paris: Review
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2010-10-24T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/basquiat-s-scrawls-larry-clark-s-junkies-lure-parisians-jorg-von-uthmann.html
The  Musee d’Art Moderne de la Ville
de Paris  is playing it safe. Presenting the first retrospective
of the U.S. photographer  Larry Clark  in France, it has
restricted access to visitors over 18.  The X-rating has proved a boon to the museum. This must be
the most popular photo show in town.  Accused of censorship, the organizers hide behind a 2007
Law on the Protection of Children and a 2000 exhibition in
Bordeaux on children in contemporary art that resulted in legal
procedures against the curators. (After 10 years, the charges
were dropped.)  Many admire Clark’s work as an unblinking portrayal of the
lost lives of young people in inner cities, with drug use,
violence and underage sex omnipresent.  Martin Scorsese  and  Gus Van Sant  have said that Clark, 67, inspired their movies “Taxi
Driver” and “Drugstore Cowboy.”  Others feel uneasy about his intimate involvement in the
subculture he depicts and call him a Peeping Tom.  The 200 or so pictures are arranged chronologically,
starting with his black-and-white series “Tulsa” (1971) and
“Teenage Lust” (1983) and ending with his recent color
photographs from the grimmer neighborhoods of Los Angeles.  Working on “Teenage Lust,” we are told in the exhibit,
Clark was “adopted” by the hustlers on New York’s 42nd Street.
His favorite model in L.A. is a young skater named Jonathan
Velasquez.  Addicts in Tulsa  His movies “Kids” (1995), “Bully” (2001) and “Ken
Park” (2002) deal with the same subject. They are also on view
at the exhibition, along with a recently resurfaced documentary
about drug addicts in Tulsa, Clark’s hometown.  The main event at the Musee d’Art Moderne is devoted to
another drug user,  Jean-Michel Basquiat , who died in 1988 at age
27 of an overdose. The museum celebrates the 50th anniversary of
his birth with a monumental show.  Contrary to legend, Basquiat wasn’t a slum kid. He was born
into a bourgeois family in Brooklyn; his father was Haitian, his
mother came from Puerto Rico.  It’s true that he was self-taught. He learned his craft on
the streets of the East Village, spraying graffiti on walls and
subways and signing them with his nom de plume SAMO.  In 1978, the Village Voice published a review of SAMO’s
work, and his career took off. Top galleries sought to manage
him,  Andy Warhol  took Basquiat under his wing, and his canvases
were seen at the 1982 Documenta in Kassel, Germany, and the 1983
Biennial of the Whitney Museum.  ‘Keith Boring’  It’s easy to dismiss Basquiat’s meteoric rise as a typical
case of art-market hype, and many did. The critic  Robert Hughes 
made fun of him and his fellow sprayer  Keith Haring  as “Keith
Boring and Jean-Michel Basketcase.”  The exhibit in Paris demonstrates that Basquiat was more
than just a product of marketing. Although his style betrays his
origins in street art and he uses -- again and again -- certain
leitmotifs, he’s never schematic.  One of the wall texts quotes him as saying: “My work has
nothing to do with graffiti.” He has a point. He belongs to the
tribe of the Neo-Expressionists or the “New Wild Ones,” as
they were called in Germany.  It’s no accident that  Julian Schnabel  regarded Basquiat as
a rival and made a biopic about him.  Among the leitmotifs, many refer to his black heritage.
Others, particularly the grinning skulls, look like eerie
premonitions of death. In “Eroica II,” one of his last
canvases, you find the words “Man dies.”  The exhibition was given an enthusiastic welcome in Paris.
Philippe Dagen, the chief art critic of the daily Le Monde,
proclaimed Basquiat the successor of Picasso: “Picasso died in
1973. It was Basquiat who took up, five years later, the history
of art where the furious old man had left it.”  “Larry Clark -- Kiss the Past Hello” runs through Jan. 2,
2011, and “Basquiat” until Jan. 30, both at the Musee de l’Art
Moderne de la Ville de Paris. Information:
 http://www.mam.paris.fr  or +33-1-5367-4000.  ( Jorg von Uthmann  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Jorg von Uthmann  in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 