-- BP Trailing Shell Puts Pressure on Dudley to Restore Dividend
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2010-10-25T16:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/bp-trailing-shell-by-most-since-june-pressures-dudley-to-restore-dividend.html
BP Plc Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Dudley ’s task of lifting  the share price  after the Gulf
of Mexico disaster is gaining urgency as the company falls
further behind Royal Dutch Shell Plc.  BP’s market value is about 43 billion pounds ($67 billion)
lower than its rival, the widest gap since the height of the
crisis on June 30. The Hague-based Shell, Europe’s largest oil
company, has gained 4.6 percent this month, while BP shares have
risen 0.2 percent. BP was worth more than Shell as recently as
January.  The sluggish performance puts pressure on Dudley to follow
through on pledges to sell $30 billion of assets and to start
paying  dividends  again. Investors will abandon BP if he fails,
reigniting speculation that the London-based company will be
split up or taken over, said investors and analysts including
SVM Asset Management’s  Colin McLean .  “BP is held by a lot of private investors and pension
funds because of the dividend,” said McLean, who helps manage
about $900 million at SVM Asset Management in Edinburgh and sold
all his BP shares this year. “If Dudley doesn’t pay it, the
stock price will go lower and they’ll be more vulnerable.”  BP was little changed at 428.7 pence as of the 4:30 p.m.
London close after announcing the sale of stakes in four Gulf of
Mexico fields for $650 million. The shares are still down 35
percent since the April 20 accident in the Gulf of Mexico that
led to the spill. Shell was also little changed at 2,004 pence.  Fourth-Quarter Dividend  Tony Hayward , Dudley’s predecessor who lost his job because
of the Gulf spill, canceled BP’s  14-cents-a-share dividend  for
the first three quarters of 2010 to free up cash to pay for
cleanup and compensation. Dudley said Sept. 30 that the board
will meet before the end of the year to consider restoring the
dividend “in some form” for the fourth quarter.  In the future, “the reason for any potential takeover
would be if Dudley doesn’t bring back the dividend,” said  Iain Armstrong , an analyst at investment manager Brewin Dolphin Ltd.
in London. “He’s almost promised it, and if he doesn’t deliver,
the stock will fall and the Chinese will be hovering over it.”  BP spokesman  Robert Wine  declined to comment for this
story.  BP has a history of giving back more money to shareholders
than competitors. The dividend yield, or annual return from the
dividend compared to the price of the shares, was 6 percent on
April 20, the day of the Gulf accident and the highest share
price this year. That compared with a dividend yield of 5.2
percent for Shell and 2.4 percent for Exxon Mobil Corp.  Dividend Options  Investors expect BP to restore the dividend early next year
for the fourth quarter at 3.26 pence a share, or about 5 cents.
The payout would increase gradually over the year,  Bloomberg
dividend options data show .  “The expectation is for them to return to the dividend
list in the fourth quarter, paying the dividend in the first
quarter of 2011, the question is at what level it will come
back,” said  Ivor Pether , a fund manager at Royal London Asset
Management, which holds $9.2 billion in securities and added to
its BP shareholding during the crisis. “I would guess that it
would be around two-thirds of what it was.”  Higher oil prices will bolster earnings for both Shell and
BP. The price of crude in New York trading has gained 10 percent
since the end of May to $81 a barrel.  Earnings Expectations  BP reports third-quarter earnings on Nov. 2, and Shell
publishes results on Oct. 28. Excluding one-time items and
inventory changes, BP’s profit will be $4.8 billion, down 11
percent from $5.4 billion a year earlier, according to a
Bloomberg survey of six analysts. Shell’s profit will be $4.4
billion, up 33 percent from $3.3 billion in 2009, a separate
survey of seven analysts shows.  “BP experienced an impact on volumes from the Gulf
moratorium,” Royal London’s Pether said, referring to delays
from the ban on drilling in the Gulf of Mexico. “Production
will be down year on year, whereas the rest of the majors should
show some growth. Shell’s production is benefiting from a number
of new projects coming onstream, so project execution risk is
receding while for BP we still have uncertainty on what is the
ultimate level of liability from Macondo.”  Shell CEO  Peter Voser  has accelerated asset sales of as
much as $8 billion, shed jobs and reduced exposure to the less
profitable downstream business by selling refineries. Shell is
also boosting production by targeting hard-to-reach rock
formations and focusing investment on the Asia Pacific region,
where demand growth is stronger than in the U.S. or Europe.  Takeover Speculation  BP  shares dropped  to a 14-year low of 302 pence on June 29
and bondholders priced in more than 40 percent chance of default
at the height of the disaster, prompting speculation that the
company would be taken over. The stock has recovered 42 percent
since that low after BP set up a $20 billion compensation fund
with the U.S. government and set aside $32 billion for spill
costs in the second quarter.  BP this month brought the total amount of cash raised from
asset sales higher than $11 billion by selling operations in
Vietnam and Venezuela to its Russian joint venture partner  TNK-
BP  for $1.8 billion. It has also disposed of fields in the U.S.,
Canada, Egypt, Colombia, and Malaysia.  Just before taking the reins on Oct. 1, Dudley unveiled a
reorganization of BP’s business, announcing the departure of the
head of the exploration and production unit,  Andy Inglis , and
splitting it into three. He also established an independent
safety division.  U.S. Probe  Those measures won’t affect whether the U.S. finds BP was
negligent in the accident. The ruling will determine the size of
the fine under the Clean Water Act, which could run as high as
$17.6 billion, and whether BP’s drilling partners pay a share of
the costs.  A probe by U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder  may lead to
suspension of well operating licenses and debarment from
government contracts under U.S. pollution law, BP said July 27.  That’s going to weigh on BP shares for a while, even if the
company isn’t a target for larger rivals such as Exxon, Shell,
or China National Offshore Oil Corp., said  Dougie Youngson , an
analyst at Arbuthnot Securities Ltd. in London who gives the
company a “sell” rating.  “The share price will continue to perform poorly until the
Department of Justice investigation is out of the way,”
Youngson said. “Dudley has a lot to do, and I’d like to see
some big statements about strategy to give some confidence that
he can turn things around.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  