-- Brown Extends Lead Over Whitman in Latest USC/L.A. Times Poll
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2010-10-24T12:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/brown-extends-lead-over-whitman-to-13-points-in-california-governor-poll.html
Democrat  Jerry Brown  more than
doubled his advantage over Republican  Meg Whitman  in a poll for
governor of  California , the most populous U.S. state.  Brown led Whitman 52 percent to 39 percent among likely
voters, as he gained support among Latinos, according to a poll
released today by the  University of Southern California  and the
Los Angeles Times. Brown was ahead 49 percent to 44 percent in a
USC/Times  survey  last month.  Brown, 72, who was governor from 1975 to 1983 and is now
attorney general, is vying with Whitman, 54, the former chief
executive officer of  EBay Inc.  The winner will lead the U.S.
state with the biggest economy and worst credit rating among
states. California is climbing out of a $19 billion budget
deficit, with unemployment at 12.4 percent in September, third-
highest behind Nevada and Michigan.  Democratic Senator  Barbara Boxer  led Republican  Carly Fiorina , the former CEO of  Hewlett-Packard Co ., by 50 percent to
42 percent among likely voters, statistically unchanged from
last month, the L.A. Times said.  Both gubernatorial candidates faced embarrassments in the
past month. A former housekeeper from Mexico accused Whitman of
employing her even after revealing she was in the country
illegally. Brown used the allegation to accuse Whitman, who
advocates a crackdown on undocumented workers, of “talking from
both sides of her mouth.”  Aide’s Remark  In an Oct. 12 debate, Brown apologized after an aide called
Whitman a “whore” in a leaked recording of a conversation
between Brown and his campaign staff. Whitman attacked Brown for
“insensitivity to what that word means to women.”  Brown led among Latino voters by 59 percent to 23 percent,
up from an advantage of 19 points in September, the poll release
said. Among women, he extended his lead to 21 points from nine,
the L.A. Times reported.  Whitman has put $141.5 million of her own money into the
campaign and raised another $29.35 million, for a total of
$170.85 million. She had $12.4 million available as of Oct. 16,
according to state filings.  Brown raised $32.6 million through Oct. 16 and had $11.6
million on hand. Independent groups such as the State Council of
Service Employees and  California Working Families for Jerry
Brown  have poured another $20 million into the race, according
to the  California Fair Political Practices Commission .  The USC/L.A. Times survey of 922 likely voters was
conducted Oct. 13-20 and has a margin for error of plus or minus
3.2 percentage points.  A survey by the nonpartisan Public Policy Institute of
California, released last week, showed Brown leading Whitman 44
percent to 36 percent among likely voters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael B. Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 