-- Cairo’s Garbage City Women Raise Pigs, Recycle Rags, Weave Rugs
-- B y   D a n i e l   T .   B i l l y
-- 2010-10-24T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/cairo-s-garbage-city-women-raise-pigs-recycle-rags-weave-rugs-interview.html
Nimet Habachy, siren of late-night
radio, recounts spending an intimate Christmas Eve singing
carols in  Leonard Bernstein ’s Manhattan apartment.  The great man played his piano -- a Bosendorfer -- while
lyricist and playwright Adolph Green belted out an improvised
version of “Jingle Bells,” in Yiddish.  Then, shortly before midnight, Habachy pedaled off on her
bike from Bernstein’s Central Park West home in the Dakota to
the mid-town radio studio just in time to do her live yuletide
broadcast.  A host of WQXR, New York’s 24-hour classical-music station,
Egyptian-born, British school-educated Habachy and I spoke at
Bloomberg world headquarters about her work on radio and her
career.  Billy: You have one of the most distinctive and
identifiable voices in New York. Any memorable encounters with
fans?  Habachy: Yes, taxi drivers! It’s rather amazing to be
recognized in New York City, in the middle of the night, sitting
in the back seat of a yellow cab. That could only happen here.  Billy: How did you get this dream job of playing classical
music on the radio -- you’ve been doing it now for almost 30
years.  Flight From Egypt  Habachy: I almost didn’t. Before my family immigrated to
America, as a young girl I went to British schools in Cairo. In
our household we all spoke English with a smattering of Arabic.
At my first WQXR audition I was told I sounded “too English.”  So I went to “announcers training school,” and I came out
with what was called a “patrician, Eastern-seaboard accent,”
got a second radio test, was hired and wept buckets of joy.  Billy: Your father, Sir Saba Habachy, was a progressive
lawyer and judge who brought your family from Egypt to the U.S.
in 1953. How did that come about?  Habachy: During World War II my father was pro-Allies,
provided supplies to Montgomery and was most likely on Rommel’s
hit list. After the war, as a government minister, he wanted to
bring in the West and help industrialize Egypt.  When Farouk was deposed in the revolution, my father was
remembered by the new government as being pro-West.  As luck would have it, Columbia University, where he later
taught, was awarding him an honorary doctorate. My family and I
left Cairo for New York with him, our clothes packed for a two-
week visit. We didn’t return to Egypt for 18 years.  Garbage City  Billy: Now with frequent trips to Cairo, you remain
actively committed to the plight of a minority segment of the
Egyptian population, people who are referred to as “the garbage
dwellers.” What is their origin?  Habachy: The people, called the Zabbaleen, began coming
from southern Egypt in the 1960s to Cairo hoping for jobs. Well,
there are none. They went into one of the very few trades open
to uneducated Egyptian Christians -- the rearing of pigs,
considered unclean to Muslims.  And to raise pigs you need to feed them, so they began
collecting and sorting garbage. Vast trash communities sprang up
in the Moquattam area, with tens of thousands people there,
mostly Copts, eating from it, living in it.  Billy: You and your sister, Suzan, began a grass-roots
project in New York to help the Zabbaleen, especially on behalf
of the younger women. How has this developed and grown over the
last 20 years?  Piglet Rescue  Habachy: A number of programs in Cairo were already in
place. We focused on one that was teaching girls the basics of
hygiene, along with literacy and math skills, through weaving,
an indigenous craft to Egyptians. Clean fabric, materials and
instruction were provided, schools with looms were established,
and beautiful, hand-woven rugs began to emerge.  Through a nonprofit called  Hands Along the Nile , we have
been selling their products -- rugs, tote bags, quilts -- here
in the United States. A new generation of Zabbaleen are growing
up with improved conditions, especially in health care, though
still existing in their very marginalized communities. But the
poverty is still profound.  Billy: And the good news for the future?  Habachy: Because these programs have become such a success,
the breeding of pigs has become secondary to the business of
recycling metals, plastics and discarded electronics.  Billy: I was distressed to learn that the swine flu last
year provoked this crazy slaughter of pigs even though there was
no connection.  Nimet: The Egyptian government took unfair advantage of the
fear of the flu epidemic as justification to nearly eradicate
the pig population.  Some residents of the Moquattam, in desperation, hid pigs
under their beds, protecting and saving piglets beneath
blankets. This is a living story of how humans survive. The
Zabbaleen now represent one the best examples of recycling
anywhere in the world because, out of necessity, they reuse
everything.  For a video about the Zabbaleen narrated by Nimet Habachy
and produced by Bloomberg News, click here.  The annual holiday sale of hand-made Zabbaleen rugs is Dec.
1 through Dec. 4, at Calvary-St. George’s Church, 61 Gramercy
Park North, at 21st Street, in Manhattan.  Hands Along the Nile is a nonprofit organization that
administers support to the Association for the Protection of the
Environment, a literacy and job-skills training center for women
in Cairo. Information:  http://www.handsalongthenile.org   ( Daniel Billy  is an editor with Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own. This article was adapted from a
longer interview.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Daniel Billy in New York at 
 dbilly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 