-- Cameron Counters Labour Criticism Coalition Is Too Focused on Budget Cuts
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-10-25T10:37:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/cameron-to-counter-labour-criticism-coalition-too-focused-on-budget-cuts.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
defended his government from opposition Labour Party accusations
that it’s cutting spending too quickly and not doing enough to
foster economic growth.  Cameron told the Confederation of British Industry’s annual
conference in London today he will help “unlock” 200 billion
pounds ($315 billion) to spend on infrastructure such as roads,
railways and bridges over the next five years.  “It’s a plan to completely update and modernize our
infrastructure, so British business is free to compete with the
rest of the world,” Cameron said. He pledged a “forensic,
relentless focus on growth” from his government to “build a
new economic dynamism.”  Cameron and Labour leader  Ed Miliband  are vying to win
support from executives after the coalition government announced
the biggest spending cuts since World War II last week. They
speak one day before a report from the  Office for National
Statistics  that analysts say will show the economy is slowing.  Miliband, who was elected Labour leader one month ago, told
the conference that Cameron is taking “a gamble with growth and
jobs” by being too focused on cuts and government needs to
protect  industry  from the sorts of risks that sparked the
financial crisis. “Unless they’re sensitive to changing
economic circumstances, it makes the British economy a hostage
to fortune,” Miliband said.  Growth Forecasts  Gross domestic product probably expanded 0.4 percent in the
third quarter, one third the rate of the previous three-month
period, the median of 35 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey
showed. Growth may slow further after the implementation of
budget cuts, which may lead to half a million public job losses.  “There is one question I want to answer today: Where is the
growth going to come from? Where are the jobs going to come
from?” Cameron said. “This is an incredible opportunity for
Britain, for new start-ups to flourish, for innovations to drive
growth and create jobs.”  Cameron said he’s spending 200 million pounds to help turn
research projects into reality and announced the merging of the
competition functions of the  Office of Fair Trading  and
Competition Commission.  Miliband argued that Cameron’s Conservatives lack a plan
for economic growth and called for a “new approach” to
supporting British industry that “learns the lessons of the
financial and economic crisis.”  “Without profound change in the way we manage our economy,
we are at risk of, at best, sleepwalking back to an economy
riddled with the same risks as we saw before the recession
hit,” he said. “The way to support business and ensure a
return to prosperity is to tackle these risks, not ignore
them.”  Miliband said there is an important role for government in
protecting industry from systemic risk, “providing active
partnership with the entrepreneurs and industries of the
future,” and ensuring that banks better serve the needs of
small and large companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 