-- Coal India Bids Signal Record Asset Sales Will Trim Deficit: India Credit
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2010-10-25T14:40:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/coal-india-bids-signal-record-asset-sales-will-trim-deficit-india-credit.html
Bids for  Coal India Ltd. ’s initial
public offer suggest the government will surpass its record 400
billion rupee ($9 billion) target from asset sales this fiscal
year, helping to trim the budget deficit to a three-year low.  Coal India completed the nation’s biggest-ever IPO on Oct.
21 after investors ordered 15 times the amount of shares on
offer, according to data on the National Stock Exchange’s
 website . Policy makers will raise about 500 billion rupees in
seven more sales by the end of March, according to SMC Global
Securities Ltd., India’s fourth-biggest brokerage.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s aim to cut the budget
shortfall to 5.5 percent of gross domestic product from a 16-
year high of 6.9 percent is helping lure an unprecedented 1.6
trillion rupees into the nation’s stocks and bonds this year.
Yields on 10-year bonds may fall to 7.75 percent by the end of
March from 8.13 percent, said  Navneet Munot , who oversees $8.5
billion as chief investment officer at Mumbai-based SBI Funds
Management Pvt., a unit of the nation’s biggest lender.  “The government can easily raise 25 percent more than
planned,”  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , New Delhi-based chief
strategist at SMC Global, said in an interview on Oct. 20.
“This will ensure overall confidence in the government’s
finances. India can demonstrate it is growing and still keeping
its means and resources under control.”  Bond Yields  The nation’s local-currency debt returned 3.68 percent in
2010, according to indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc, as the
Reserve Bank of India raised borrowing costs five times to
contain inflation. Investors in China earned 2.54 percent, the
least in the region, the indexes show.  The yield on India’s 7.8 percent note due May 2020 climbed
16 basis points, or 0.16 percentage point, in the last two weeks
as speculation investors withdrew cash to buy shares of Coal
India reduced the cash available to purchase debt. The yield was
little changed at 8.14 percent today.  “Yields are probably peaking out,” SBI Funds’  Munot  said
by phone on Oct. 22.  India’s benchmark 10-year bond yield compares with 3.46
percent in China and 12.44 percent in Brazil, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Investors  demand  565 basis points more
yield to hold India’s debt due in a decade rather than similar-
maturity U.S. Treasuries. The difference has averaged 317 in the
past decade.  Overseas Funds  International investors pumped $9.7 billion into rupee
bonds this year, more than their combined purchases in the
previous eight years, according to data last week from the
Securities & Exchange Board of India.  The inflows spurred gains in the rupee, which advanced 4.6
percent this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency was at 44.3450 per dollar as of the 5 p.m. close local
time.  “Supply concerns in bond markets have decreased,”
 Takahide Irimura , head of emerging-market research in Tokyo at
Kokusai Asset Management Co. that manages about $60 billion in
assets, said in an interview on Oct. 20. “The rupee will likely
continue to appreciate toward the year-end, supported by strong
capital inflows.”  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee ’s efforts to cut the
deficit prompted Moody’s Investors Service to raise the nation’s
local-currency credit rating one level to Ba1, the highest non-
investment category, in July. The cost of protecting the debt of
state-run  State Bank of India  slid 78 basis points from a one-
year high in May to 161 points, according to CMA.  Raising Money  The federal government plans to raise 1.63 trillion rupees
by selling bonds in the six months ending March, 6 percent less
than originally planned, Finance Secretary  Ashok Chawla  said
Sept. 23. The South Asian nation may review its borrowing
program by the end of December, a Finance Ministry official with
direct knowledge of the matter said on Oct. 20.  The government raised 677.2 billion rupees by auctioning
third-generation mobile-phone permits in May and another 385.4
billion rupees by selling wireless broadband Internet services a
month later, improving prospects of reducing the deficit.  “The 3G and disinvestment money can help the government
reduce its fiscal deficit to below the 5.5 percent target,”
 Jahangir Aziz , the Mumbai-based chief economist for India at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in an interview on Oct. 21. “These
are one-time sales and don’t keep happening every year. Asset
sales aren’t a sustainable way to cut a fiscal deficit.”  Fitch  Fitch Ratings said last week that quantitative easing in
developed countries is a “key theme” for credit risk in
emerging markets. India may be insulated because trade and
investment flows are less important to the nation than to many
of its peers,  Andrew Colquhoun , the head of Asia-Pacific
sovereign debt at Fitch, said at press briefing in Hong Kong on
Oct. 19.  The government raised 42.59 billion rupees in the year
ended March by selling shares in state-run companies, according
to the disinvestment department’s  website . Policy makers didn’t
set a target in the years from 2006 to 2009, and the government
failed to raise the 40 billion rupees it sought in 2005.  It will raise more than 150 billion rupees from the sale of
a stake in Coal India Ltd., after setting the offer price at the
top end of the price range it had indicated, Coal Minister
Sriprakash Jaiswal told reporters today in New Delhi.  Sales of shares in  Power Grid Corp. of India Ltd. ,
Manganese Ore (India) Ltd., Shipping Corp. of India Ltd., and
 Hindustan Copper Ltd.  will be completed by December,
Disinvestment Secretary  Sumit Bose  told reporters on Oct. 19.
The government also plans to sell stakes in  Indian Oil Corp. ,
Steel Authority of India Ltd. and  Oil & Natural Gas Corp .  “They will comfortably be able to surpass their
disinvestment target, that will give them some elbow room in
potentially reducing the budgeted borrowing number,”  Rajeev Radhakrishnan , a Mumbai-based money manager at SBI Funds
Management, said in an interview on Oct. 21.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  