-- Czech Budget Cuts Face Veto as Opposition Party Wins Majority in Senate
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2010-10-25T07:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/czech-budget-cuts-face-veto-as-opposition-party-wins-majority-in-senate.html
Czech Social Democrats vowed to veto
cuts in welfare programs after securing a Senate majority in
weekend elections, potentially delaying Prime Minister  Petr Necas ’s drive to narrow the budget deficit.  The Social Democrats won 12 races in run-off contests Oct.
22-23, giving them 41 seats in the 81-member Senate. The
chamber, which must approve all legislation except the budget,
had been controlled by Necas’s three-party coalition.  “There will certainly be amendments to laws affecting
families with children, affecting workers,”  Zdenek Skromach ,
deputy chairman of the Social Democrats, said yesterday on
state-run Czech Television. The party will veto bills that “are
very restrictive and inappropriate.”  Necas’ three-party Cabinet has said it will reduce spending
as it seeks to halve the fiscal  deficit  to less than 3 percent
of gross domestic product by 2013. The coalition, which has
enough votes in the lower house to override a Senate veto,
pledged to continue its program.  “We simply have to take into consideration the fact that
the approval of laws will take five weeks longer,” Finance
Minister  Miroslav Kalousek  told reporters after the election
results were announced.  Labor Unrest  The ruling parties have lost support since taking power in
July and announcing plans to reduce spending, including a 10
percent cut in public wages. The agenda has drawn the ire of
state workers, with as many as 30,000 policemen, firemen and
medical workers marching through Prague in protest on Sept. 21.  The koruna, which has gained 4.6 percent against the euro
since the end of June to be the world’s best performer of the
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, was unchanged at 24.563 to the
common currency at 9:30 a.m. in Prague.  “The results could initially impair the koruna as some may
fear that the government will be hindered in its austerity
reforms,” BNP Paribas SA said in a note to investors today.
“However, the fact that the Chamber of Deputies, in which the
government still has a comfortable majority, can outvote the
Senate’s vetoes suggests that reforms will still go on.”  Declining Support  Necas’s Civic Democrats lost the Oct. 15-16 elections in
Prague, relinquishing control of the capital for the first time
since the Czech Republic gained independence in 1993.  Twenty-seven Senate seats were contested in the run-off
elections, with the Civic Democrats winning eight and TOP09, a
governing coalition partner, taking two, according to the
statistics office in Prague. Public Affairs, the third ruling
party, didn’t win any seats in the Senate.  “There was more at stake for the voters of the left
because government reforms will affect them much more than the
richer voters of the right,” said  Jiri Pehe , a political
analyst and director of New York University in Prague. “The
Senate might serve at least as a brake for the reforms.”  The ruling parties have 118 of 200 seats in the lower house
of parliament.  The coalition wouldn’t have won a majority in the lower
house if elections had been held earlier this month, a STEM poll
published Oct. 18 showed. The parties would have garnered 95
seats, with the Social Democrats and Communists taking 105,
according to the poll of 1,244 eligible voters surveyed Oct. 1-
9. The margin of error was 1.5 percent to 2.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at   placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  