-- Deflation Disappears With Bond Market Showing Growth
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2010-10-25T14:08:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/deflation-disappears-as-bond-market-worry-with-tips-showing-no-double-dip.html
The  bond market  is showing Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will succeed in sparking
inflation after the smallest gain in core consumer prices in
half a century increased concerns that the economy will deflate.  Expectations for rising consumer prices have increased
faster in the U.S. than any other bond market this month as
central bankers made the case for monetary easing through
additional asset purchases. Yields on 30-year Treasuries climbed
as much as half a percentage point since September to 2.61
percentage points more than similar maturity inflation-indexed
debt, the widest gap since May and an indication for anticipated
gains in consumer prices.  While central banks are typically more concerned about
faster inflation, the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression has made sustained price declines a bigger concern.
Fed policy makers, who already cut  interest rates  almost to zero
and bought $1.7 trillion of securities, are discussing more
purchases of Treasuries to flood markets with cheap money as
well as strategies for raising inflation expectations to prevent
stagnating prices from undermining the recovery.  “It’s like a Harry Potter movie,” said Mitchell Stapley,
the chief fixed-income officer for Fifth Third Asset Management,
referring to the films based on the best-selling novels about
the adolescent wizard by  J.K. Rowling . “They create money out
of nothing. Over the short-term there might not be an impact,
but certainly we are feeling that at some point they will get
traction. There will be success further down the road.”  Consumer Prices  Stapley, who helps manage $22 billion in  Grand Rapids ,  Michigan , has been buying Treasury Inflation-Protected
Securities, or TIPS, even though the Labor Department reported
on Oct. 15 a smaller-than-forecast increase of 0.1 percent in
the cost of living for September.  Core prices, which exclude food and fuel, were little
changed in September, capping a 0.8 percent increase in the past
12 months, the smallest year-over-year gain since 1961.  Demand for TIPS is increasing as investors buy insurance in
case inflation, which erodes the value of fixed-rate payments
on bonds, accelerates after the Fed gets the economy back on
track. U.S. gross domestic product expanded at a 1.7 percent
annual rate in the second quarter.  “I actually see the prospects of inflation returning to
about 2 percent over the course of the next year, gradually
rising,” Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser  said at an event in Philadelphia on Oct. 22. The
“kindling” is already in place for higher inflation, he said.  Breakeven Rates  The difference between yields on 30-year TIPS and
Treasuries -- which represents the annual inflation rate
investors anticipate over the life of the securities -- tumbled
to a record low of 0.57 percentage point, or 57 basis points, in
November 2008 as the financial crisis spurred concern falling
prices of assets such as homes would spawn deflation, making
consumers and businesses less willing to spend or invest.  The so-called breakeven rate, which has averaged about 2.30
percent since the U.S. began selling 30-year TIPS in 1998, was
as low as 1.84 percentage points on Aug. 25. The measure was
little changed at 2.54 percentage points at 10:06 a.m. in  New
York .  More stimulus may be needed because inflation is too low
and unemployment too high at 9.6 percent, Bernanke said on Oct.
15 at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. Charles Evans,  Dennis Lockhart  and  William Dudley , presidents of the Fed banks in  Chicago , Atlanta and New York, said policy makers will start a
second round of unconventional stimulus, with Evans and Lockhart
saying asset purchases must be big enough to aid growth.  Fed Purchases  While inflation expectations are building, traders and
analysts anticipate Fed purchases of Treasuries due in 10 years
or less to keep borrowing costs down. A Bloomberg News survey
showed all 18 of the primary dealers that act as counterparties
with the Fed expect Treasury purchases next month.  Citigroup Global Markets Inc. strategists said last week
they expect $500 billion to $700 billion. Alan Blinder, a former
vice chairman of the Fed, said $500 billion is “too small.”  The yield premium investors demand to own 30-year bonds
instead of 10-year notes reached a record high of 1.46
percentage points on Oct. 15, before easing to 1.38 percentage
points last week. The five-year average is 0.52 point, according
to Bloomberg data.  A steeper so-called yield curve is historically a sign bond
investors anticipate faster economic growth. The relationship
between short- and long-term yields suggests an 18.5 percent
chance of another recession, according to a September report
from the Federal Reserve Bank of  Cleveland .  Bond Losses  “It’s very hard in a mathematical sense to lower Treasury
yields and increase inflation expectations,” said Brian Weinstein, who oversees inflation-linked bond investments in New
York at BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest asset manager.
“There has to be some sort of consequence. So far that
consequence has been a steeper yield curve.”  Bonds due in 30 years are the worst-performing Treasuries
in October, losing 4.04 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. The securities are posting the biggest
monthly loss since December because longer-maturity debt is more
at risk when inflation accelerates with investors locked into
fixed-rate payments for a greater period of time.  “The information content of the Treasury curve is somewhat
polluted because you have the tinkering of quantitative
easing,” said Gregory Peters, global head of fixed-income
research in New York at Morgan Stanley. “All the inflation
expectations manifest themselves in the 30-year.”  Fed Measure  A chart the Fed uses that plots forward rates measuring
expectations for inflation in five years also shows investors
are beginning to grow concerned. The so-called five-year, five-
year forward rate increased to 2.81 percent on Oct. 15 after
touching a near two-year low of 2.17 percent on Aug. 24. The
rate, which is based on trading in TIPS, averaged 2.6 percent
the five years before the financial crisis began.  Inflation has yet to hit consumers. Minneapolis-based  Target Corp ., the second-largest discount retailer, said Oct. 7
that it would cut prices on more than 1,000 toys. Bentonville,
Arkansas-based  Wal-Mart Stores Inc ., the biggest, responded Oct.
13 with its own discounts, advertising savings on brands such as
Barbie and Nerf toys.  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross , manager of
the world’s largest bond mutual fund, said the Fed should aim
for an inflation rate of 2.5 percent to 3 percent.  Cutting Back  “If and when we do that, then that’s a very favorable type
of proposal for risk assets that wheel off inflation, in other
words stocks,” Gross said in an Oct. 8 interview with Bloomberg
Television. The risk of the Fed triggering hyper-inflation that
would be hard to control is “years” away, he said. “I don’t
have any concerns, and I don’t think the Fed does, either.”  Gross reduced holdings of government-related debt in the
$252 billion Total Return Fund to 33 percent of assets in
September, the least in six months, according to data posted
Oct. 15 on the website of  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco.  Low borrowing costs have done little to spur home buying
with the jobless rate at about the highest level in two decades.
Sales of existing houses were the second-lowest on record in
August, the National Association of Realtors in  Washington  said.  The housing market remains an impediment to the Fed’s
efforts, even as rates for 30-year mortgages fell to 4.19
percent in the week ended Oct. 14, the lowest rate since McLean,
Virginia-based mortgage-finance company  Freddie Mac  began
tracking the data in 1971.  ‘Positive Growth’  “We are in a positive growth environment, it’s just not
enough yet to push the  unemployment rate  down, at least as fast
as the Fed would like,” said Michael Pond, an interest-rate
strategist in New York at Barclays Plc.  The Commerce Department will say Oct. 29 that the economy
grew at a 2.1 percent rate in the third quarter, according to
median forecast of 20 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  “Perhaps it’s the beginning of people thinking not just
about yield, and where can I get yield, but it’s remembering
that the additional yield comes with greater inflation risk,”
said James Sarni, senior managing partner at Payden & Rygel in  Los Angeles , which manages $55 billion. He has been buying
higher yielding sovereign debt from emerging market nations.  “They’re now targeting a certain inflation rate,” Sarni
said of the Fed. “If they’re targeting 2 percent, there’s a
risk of overshoot, and what does it overshoot to?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  