-- Dollar Falls After G-20 Seeks to Avoid Competitive Devaluations
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-10-24T21:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/dollar-falls-after-g-20-meeting-pledges-to-avoid-competitive-devaluations.html
The dollar traded near a one-week
low against the euro after Group of 20 finance ministers and
central bankers vowed to avoid weakening currencies to lift
exports.  Officials called for more sustainable current-account gaps
without embracing a U.S. proposal for targets, as they ended
talks in South Korea on Oct. 23. The Australian and New Zealand
dollars climbed for a second day on speculation the pledge will
calm concern over trade tensions and a Nov. 3 Federal Reserve
policy decision may signal the start to a second round of bond
purchases, boosting demand for higher-yielding assets.  “The G-20 has shown no indication that the U.S. will back
away from the large quantitative easing policy anticipated from
the Fed,” said Greg Gibbs, a currency strategist at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc in Sydney. “The euro is acting as the
anti-dollar again because it’s the only major central bank which
isn’t talking about quantitative easing at the moment.”  The dollar fell to as low as $1.3997 per euro, near its
weakest since Oct. 15, before trading at $1.3958 as of 6:39 a.m.
in Tokyo, from $1.3954 on Oct. 22 in New York. It was little
changed at 81.38 yen, after touching as low as 80.90 yen.
Australia’s currency gained 0.3 percent to 98.53 U.S. cents and
New Zealand’s rose 0.2 percent to 74.81 cents.  G-20 officials pledged to refrain from “competitive
devaluation” and to let markets set foreign-exchange values as
they sought to calm fears that a trade war may break out if
nations use cheaper currencies to spur growth.  This was the first time economic policy makers took a joint
stance on exchange rates after previously resisting such actions
for fear of alienating China. The G-20 statement still recycles
language used at previous leaders’ summits in London and Toronto
and falls short of the currency accords of the 1980s.  ‘Weak Compromise’  “The final communique shows all the signs of a weak
compromise between competing interests,” currency strategists
at UBS AG said in a report. It should be “positive for risk
appetite,” and would likely support the Australian and Canadian
dollars, the Nordic and emerging-market currencies at the
expense of the U.S. dollar, the bank said.  Citigroup Inc. strategists said the meeting “will serve to
reinforce downward pressure” on the dollar against the major
currencies as the communique fell “well short” of a 1985 Plaza
Accord-style agreement to manage the dollar’s decline.  Australia’s dollar may benefit as it is “the most liquid
currency with tight links to China,” they said in a report.  Dollar, Fed Easing  Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes tracking 10
developed-world currencies show the U.S. dollar has been the
biggest decliner over the past three months, falling 5.9
percent.  The Fed may purchase $2 trillion of assets to stimulate the
U.S. economy, starting with a program of about $500 billion of
buying over six months that is likely to be announced at the
November meeting, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a note to
clients.  Asian nations will likely “back down” from physical
intervention in the foreign-exchange markets to weaken their
domestic currencies for the next few weeks, said Faros Trading
LLC, which executes currency transactions on behalf of hedge
funds and institutional clients.  “Doing so is not wise politically given the comments this
past weekend,” said Douglas Borthwick, Stamford, Connecticut-
based head of trading at Faros. “We believe Asian currencies
will rally and the U.S. dollar will weaken.”  Policy makers in Japan are also likely to refrain from
selling yen until after a G-20 meeting in November, he said.  Japan Yen Policy  Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  reiterated Oct. 23
that Japan’s currency policy remains unchanged, saying the
government is ready to counter yen gains if needed.  Seeking to appease critics, advanced economies agreed to be
“vigilant against excess  volatility  and disorderly movements in
exchange rates,” the G-20 said. U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy
F. Geithner said the U.S. backs a “strong dollar” and
recognizes its global responsibilities.  The U.S. dollar’s recent drop and China’s restraint of the
yuan have forced trading partners including South Korea and
Brazil to temper gains in their own floating currencies to
remain competitive.  Strategists at HSBC Plc said they saw potential for the
dollar to appreciate as the statement did little to keep nations
from taking steps to limit gains in their currencies.  “No country was named and shamed and those which recently
put on forms of capital controls did not even get a wrist
slap,” the strategists said in a report. “Any country
considering capital controls now has the G-20 behind them and is
free to act.” That’s a “positive scenario” for the dollar,
they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  