-- Tea Party, Cash Converge on Colorado Midterm Clash: Albert Hunt
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2010-10-24T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/tea-party-cash-converge-on-colorado-midterm-clash-albert-hunt.html
The race for the U.S. Senate seat in
 Colorado  is one of the most intense, interesting and important
of this year’s midterm elections, with real countervailing
pressures.  The  Republican Party  has imploded in Colorado in 2010, and
the Democrats have a candidate more tailored to this very
purple, as in moderate, swing state. Yet the year, and the anger
and anxiety produced by economic conditions, favor Republicans,
and a candidate positioned to take advantage of those factors.  The Democratic hopeful, Michael Bennet, was a successful
businessman and school-reform leader before being appointed to
the U.S. Senate 22 months ago to replace  Ken Salazar , who became
President Barack Obama’s interior secretary; he fended off a
liberal challenge in the primary. The Republican is Ken Buck, a
prosecutor at the federal and county levels who, with the
support of the grassroots Tea Party movement, upended the
establishment Republican candidate in the primary.  Either victor would be a force in the Senate. Bennet, 45,
would be an important centrist figure for the Democrats. Buck,
51, less dogmatic than some other Tea Party candidates, would
play a critical role with his supporter, South Carolina Senator
 Jim DeMint , in the surging right-wing element of the Republican
Party.  Primary Challenges  Both are burdened in their races by their political
affiliation, Bennet by the unpopularity of Washington Democrats
and the president; Buck by a Republican established order that
has crumbled with a gubernatorial candidate so weak that the
only hope for many conservatives is the independent candidacy of
the longtime immigration basher, former U.S. Representative Tom Tancredo. There are conundrums and contrasts aplenty.  Bennet deprecates Washington and his experiences as a fill-
in senator of the last year-and-a-half. He’s a native
Washingtonian and has supported all of the elements of Obama’s
agenda that have been approved. Buck offers himself as a tough,
anti-government Westerner, proud of the bovine manure on his
boots. He grew up in a well-to-do  New York  family, attended
 Princeton University  and has been on the government payroll for
more than 22 of the last 25 years.  There may be no place in America’s midterm elections where
the gender gap is so pronounced. Analysts say there are three
certainties in the Colorado Senate race: It will be decided by a
few points, Buck will garner 55 percent or more of the male
vote, and Bennet will do the same with the female vote.  Poisonous Environment  The incumbent senator, who has never run for office before,
has established a reputation in Washington as a thoughtful
lawmaker who tries, even in a poisonous environment, to work
with Republicans. He is cautious.  On the economy, he says that all issues have to be on the
table in reducing  chronic deficits , and wants to extend the
 Bush-era tax cuts  at all income levels for only one year, and
then re-examine the whole tax system. Drawing on his corporate
experience, he talks a lot about how to make America
competitive, and a major focus is education. As the head of the
Denver school board for three-and-a-half years, he won plaudits
for reforming and improving that school system.  He is contemptuous of his opponent’s economic posture.
“There are moms in Douglas County who moved there so their kids
could get a good education, and nothing Buck says responds to
that,” Bennet says, referring to a Republican suburb of Denver.  ‘Better Candidate’  Detached observers say Bennet was bruised by the primary
challenge on the left, forcing him to take more liberal
positions, a view reinforced by the  Denver Post , the state’s
largest newspaper, when it endorsed him recently. He insists the
primary was actually good for him: “I’d never run for anything
before,” he says. “It made me a better candidate.”  Buck is smart and more outgoing than his opponent. He’s
also more impulsive and confrontational.  After he describes DeMint as a “patriot,” a reporter
asks, isn’t Obama a patriot, too? Buck laughs derisively and
responds, “no comment.” When he’s asked about the dissonance
between his background and political persona, he retorts, “Do
you sleep at night” with questions like that, suggesting Ambien
may be in order.  As a prosecutor, he was a hardliner on immigration, staging
a raid that was declared unconstitutional. When asked for his
views of more pro-immigration politicians such as  Michael Bloomberg , the mayor of New York, and California Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , Buck sarcastically cracks, “two of my heroes.”  Social Issues  Buck blames the media for focusing on social issues instead
of the central question of the economy. Yet he encourages this
kind of attention with recent claims suggesting that gays and
lesbians act out of “choice” not out of genetic
predisposition, likening their sexual identity to alcoholism.  And while he is convincing when he explains why he didn’t
prosecute an alleged rape case involving a young woman and her
ex-boyfriend, he doesn’t help himself with some women voters
when he repeatedly says a jury might have thought it was a case
of “buyer’s remorse” on the part of the alleged victim.  On the overarching economic issue, Buck says it’s not jobs
but out-of-control  government spending . He favors extending all
the Bush-era tax cuts and enacting some others, although he has
retreated from primary talk of changing Social Security.  When he praises a Republican plan to reduce discretionary
domestic spending by 20 percent, he’s asked if that means he
would favor something along the lines of a $6 billion cut in the
 National Institutes of Health ’s budget for things like  cancer
research . The answer is yes: “How are we going to pay for $6
billion of cancer research?”  Outside Money  An uncertainty is the massive amounts of outside money in
Colorado this year, primarily from Republican groups such as the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the secretly funded project led by
 Karl Rove , former President  George W. Bush ’s political adviser.  Predictably, the candidates disagree on the impact of this
infusion of cash, with Buck saying Democrats have such groups,
too, and Bennet charging his opponent wouldn’t be a credible
candidate without outside support.  As this bitter race concludes, there’s only one question
these guys answer similarly: Both are confident they will
prevail.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 