-- Growth Probably Sped Up on Spending Gain: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-10-24T04:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/economy-in-u-s-probably-grew-at-faster-pace-on-consumer-spending-pickup.html
The economy in the U.S. probably
grew at a faster pace in the third quarter, reflecting a pickup
in consumer spending that bodes well for the recovery’s staying
power, economists projected a report this week will show.  Gross domestic product rose at a 2 percent annual pace, up
from a 1.7 percent rate in the previous three months, according
to the median estimate of 67 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News before an Oct. 29 Commerce Department report. Other data
may show business investment remains a mainstay of the economic
rebound, while housing is mired in a slump.  The pace of growth would still not be strong enough to give
the 14.8 million unemployed Americans hope of finding work soon,
one reason why Federal Reserve policy makers may be about to
pump more money into the economy. Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and
 Target Corp.  are among retailers likely to gain as discounts
lure budget-conscious shoppers during the year-end holidays.  “There’s no question about the sustainability of the
recovery now,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New York. “But unless we
grow faster, we don’t have a shot at bringing down unemployment
significantly. Improvement in consumer spending is a sign the
holiday season will be better than in the past couple of
years.”  The GDP estimate is the first of three for the quarter,
with the other releases scheduled in November and December when
more information becomes available.  Spending Climbs  Consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of
the economy, increased at a 2.4 percent annual rate from July
through September, the best showing of the recovery that began
in June 2009, economists project.  The National Retail Federation has forecast November-
December sales will rise by 2.3 percent from a year ago, making
it the best holiday season in four years. Wal-Mart, the world’s
largest retailer, Target, Amazon.com Inc. and EBay Inc. are
among merchants that will benefit as shoppers look for bargains,
according to results of a survey issued this month by Consumer
Edge Research in Stamford, Connecticut.  The Standard & Poor’s 500  index  has gained 11 percent since
Aug. 27, when Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank
“will do all that it can” to sustain the economy’s rebound.
The measure rose 0.2 percent to 1,183.08 at the 4 p.m. close in
New York on Oct. 22.  About 85 percent of companies in the S&P 500 gauge have
exceeded analysts’ per-share profit estimates so far in third-
quarter reports. Sales are rising at companies from Boeing Co.
to chipmaker Intel Corp. and railroad CSX Corp. Faster overseas
growth is also boosting earnings.  Aircraft Sales  Boeing , the world’s largest aerospace company, reported a
third-quarter profit due to higher jetliner deliveries and
raised its full-year forecast. The jump in orders is prompting
the Chicago-based company to make plans to boost production.  The orders are coming amid a “slow, steady kind of
recovery,” Chief Executive Officer  Jim McNerney  said on an Oct.
20 conference call. Most of the demand is from overseas.  The Commerce Department may report on Oct. 27 that orders
for goods meant to last at least three years climbed 2 percent
in September, the most in five months, according to the
Bloomberg survey median. The gain signals business investment in
new equipment continues to support the recovery.  While capital expenditures are climbing, manufacturing
gains are cooling as the pace of inventory rebuilding eases
compared with the surge that began in late 2009.  Housing Woes  Housing continues to struggle as foreclosures mount and
unemployment near 10 percent limits demand and hurts property
values. Sales of  existing  homes, due tomorrow from the National
Association of Realtors, rose to a 4.3 million annual rate last
month, according to the Bloomberg survey median. The readings
over the past three months would be the lowest since comparable
records began in 1999.  The Commerce Department may report on Oct. 27 that  new-home 
purchases increased last month to a 300,000 annual rate,
hovering close to the record-low 282,000 reached in May,
economists predicted.  Home prices in 20 cities for the 12 months through August
climbed at a slower pace, according to the Bloomberg survey. The
S&P/Case-Shiller index is due Oct. 26.  Consumer confidence reports may show little change this
month as the lack of jobs unnerves Americans. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan’s sentiment  index , due Oct. 29,
is projected to drop to a three-month low, while the Conference
Board’s  gauge  on Oct. 26 may climb from a one-year low.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 Schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  