-- Funds Lift Gasoline Bets a Seventh Week on French Strike: Energy Markets
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2010-10-25T19:43:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/hedge-funds-lift-gasoline-bets-a-7th-week-on-french-strike-energy-markets.html
Hedge funds raised their bullish
bets on gasoline for a seventh straight week on speculation that
a French labor strike will curtail European exports to the U.S.  The funds and other large speculators increased wagers on
rising prices to 57,640 futures and options  contracts  for the
week ended Oct. 19, the highest level since May 7, according to
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s weekly Commitments of
Traders report. The bets have climbed by 58,809 contracts since
the week ended Aug. 31, when wagers on declines outnumbered
those for gains by 1,169 contracts.  Strikes across France to protest plans by President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to raise the age for retirement and pensions have caused
nine of 11 refineries to shut, while the remaining two run at
reduced rates, disrupting shipments to foreign markets. The
stoppages, which began at the port of Marseille on Sept. 27, may
have cut gasoline production by about 300,000 barrels a day,
according to Credit Agricole CIB.  “A lot of funds jumped on the gasoline position thinking
that they’d see a little bit of a shakeup with the French
strike,” said  Carl Larry , president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions
LLC in Houston. “We are seeing a reduction of imports.”  Gasoline for November delivery on the New York Mercantile
Exchange rose 1.35 cents, or 0.7 percent, to settle at $2.0773 a
gallon. Prices dropped 1.9 percent last week, the second
consecutive decline.  Inventory Slide  Supplies  to the East Coast, the main U.S. destination for
European gasoline, dropped 13 percent to 53.5 million barrels
from Sept. 17 to Oct. 15, according to the Energy Department in
Washington. That’s the lowest level since the week ended Aug.
28, 2009.  French labor unions pledged to extend their protests into
an eighth week after the Senate approved Sarkozy’s bill on Oct.
22 to raise the retirement age to 62 from 60 and the age for a
full pension to 67 from 65.  France hasn’t notified the Paris-based International Energy
Agency of any reduction in oil stockpiles below the minimum
requirement of 90 days worth of supply, IEA’s Executive Director
 Nobuo Tanaka  said today in Moscow.  Gasoline stockpiles  in independent storage in Europe’s
Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp oil-trading hub fell 7 percent to
790,000 metric tons in the week through Oct. 21, according to
PJK International BV. That’s the lowest level since February.  Net-long positions  in oil held by what the CFTC categorizes
as managed money, including hedge funds, commodity pools and
commodity-trading advisers, dropped by 15,097 futures and
options combined to 163,641, according to the commission report.  Effect on Products  “The French strike in itself doesn’t have as much of an
effect on crude oil, but it does in the short term for
products,” said  Costanza Jacazio , a commodities analyst at
Barclays Capital in New York.  Bullish bets  on heating oil dropped by 7,482 contracts, the
second consecutive decline, the CFTC data showed.  Net-long positions in futures and options combined in four
natural-gas  contracts  rose by 3,480 futures equivalents to
23,514 in the seven days ending Oct. 19, the CFTC data showed.
It was the first weekly increase since Sept. 24.  The measure of natural-gas net longs includes an index of
four contracts adjusted to futures equivalents: Nymex natural
gas futures, Nymex Henry Hub Swaps, Nymex Henry Hub Penultimate
Swaps, and ICE Henry Hub Swaps. Henry Hub in Erath, Louisiana,
is the delivery point for Nymex futures, a benchmark price for
the fuel.  “The impact of the French strike on the U.S. gasoline
market will be relatively limited” because of ample stockpiles,
 Michael Lewis , a London-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said
in an Oct. 22 note.  Inventories  of the motor fuel rose 0.5
percent to 219.3 million barrels in the week to Oct. 15,
according to the U.S. Department of Energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Burkhardt  in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  