-- India Billionaires Go On Buying Spree in `Last Frontier' Africa
-- B y   M e h u l   S r i v a s t a v a   a n d   S u b r a m a n i a m   S h a r m a
-- 2010-10-25T03:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/ethiopian-rose-fields-give-india-billionaires-tips-on-african-buying-spree.html
Indian billionaire  Ravi Ruia  flew to
Africa every month for the past 18 months, buying coal mines in
Mozambique, half an oil refinery in Kenya and a call center in
South Africa for his Essar Group.  This month, executives of his  Essar Energy Plc.  attended a
conference hosted by Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan  to
attract investors in the power grid. The officials, backed by $2
billion the company raised in an April listing on the London
Stock Exchange, also mulled other “business opportunities”
around Africa, the company said.  Ruia, who controls the $15 billion Essar Group with his
older brother, Shashi, is not alone. Billionaire countrymen
 Sunil Mittal , chairman of India’s largest mobile phone provider,
 Bharti Airtel Ltd. ;  Adi Godrej , chairman of  Godrej Consumer
Products Ltd. ; and  Harsh Mariwala , founder of  Marico Ltd. , have
fueled a $15.8 billion buying spree in Africa since January 2005.  “Africa looks remarkably similar to what India was 15
years ago,” said Firdhose Coovadia, director of Essar’s African
operations. “We can’t lose this opportunity to replicate the
low-cost, high-volume model we’ve perfected in India.”  ‘Last Frontier’  Indian companies acquired or invested in at least 79
companies in Africa, chasing business in less crowded markets
after growing in a home economy that expanded by an average 8.5
percent since April 2005.  Africa’s gross domestic product expanded 4.9 percent a year
from 2000 to 2008,  McKinsey & Co.  said in a June report. The
continent’s GDP will rise to $2.6 trillion by 2020 from $1.6
trillion in 2008.  Consumer spending may double to as much as $1.8 trillion by
2020 as infrastructure is built and farm output increases, the
report said. That is the equivalent of adding a consumer market
the size of Brazil.  “Africa is seen by the investing community as the last
frontier,” said  Walter Rossini , who manages $330 million in an
India fund at Aletti Gestielle Sgr Spa in Milan. “There is a
higher risk, but then there is greater reward if the political
situation remains stable over the next 10 years.”  Africa is new territory for Bharti, which paid $9 billion
in June for mobile phone operations in 15 countries and will
rebrand them by year’s end.  500 Million Roses  This month, Bharti executives sought advice at the Kenya
offices of Bangalore-based  Karuturi Global Ltd. , the world’s
largest rose-grower.  Sai Ramakrishna Karuturi , the managing
director, said Africa is driving his  company ’s success.  Six years ago, as he struggled to compete against flower
growers in Africa and Europe with lower freight costs and larger
tracts of land, he bought a small plot in Ethiopia. Sales since
have grown 11-fold to $112.7 million in the fiscal year that
ended March 31.  He leases 311,000 hectares of land -- larger than the U.S.
state of  Rhode Island  -- in Ethiopia and Kenya, and his company
sells more than half-a-billion roses a year.  “I got in on the ground floor, others got in on the second
floor, but there’s a lot of floors left to go in Africa’s
economic cycle,” Karuturi said. “Africa offered us a scale we
could never reach in India.”  26 Deals  Indian acquisitions in Africa peaked in 2008, when
companies closed 26 deals worth $3.1 billion. Those include the
state-run  Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Ltd. ’s $721
million purchase of Industries Chimiques du Senegal, an idle
phosphates producer that once was the country’s largest
industrial plant. New York-based Ernst & Young LLP handled 11
deals since 2005.  “We are seeing Indian companies look at Africa in a major
way,” said  Anuj Chande , the London-based head of the South Asia
Group at advisory and accounting firm Grant Thornton U.K. LLP.
“Compared to India, valuations are quite attractive. We’re
expecting to see a lot of midsize deals across a variety of
sectors.”  Apollo Tyres Ltd ., India’s second-biggest tiremaker by
market value, bought Durban, South Africa-based Dunlop Tyres
International Pty for $62 million in April 2006. That gave
Gurgaon-based  Apollo  two manufacturing plants and a retreading
unit in South Africa and Zimbabwe, and brand rights to 32
African countries.  ‘Tata, Ambani’  “If tomorrow the Indian economy was to take a U-turn, then
at least you have other markets which are growing,” said  Neeraj Kanwar , Apollo’s vice-chairman and managing director. “I can’t
survive on the Indian market alone.”  The company aims to triple sales to $6 billion in five
years, with 60 percent of revenue coming from outside India. In
the fiscal year that ended March 31, 62 percent of its $1.7
billion in  sales  came from India.  Adi Godrej bought a hair-color company in South Africa and
a soap and body-lotion maker in Nigeria. His Mumbai-based  Godrej
Consumer Products  gets 23 percent of its total sales outside
India, including Africa.  Marico  paid 520 million India rupees ($12 million) to buy
the consumer division of Durban-based Enaleni Pharmaceuticals
Consumer Division (Pty) Ltd. in October 2007. Two months ago, it
bought South African health-care brand Ingwe for an undisclosed
price.  Dabur India Ltd.  started shopping on the continent in 2004,
when it bought a hair-care brand in Egypt and then a Nigerian
cosmetics company.  “We need to now seek avenues of growth outside of India
because India’s becoming saturated and hugely competitive,”
Dabur Chief Executive Officer  Sunil Duggal  said.  One reason why smaller Indian companies ventured into
Africa is that their budgets still attract attention in
countries trying to woo foreign investors, Karuturi said.  “I am not even a fly on the wall in India, but in Ethiopia
I am the largest investor, the second-largest employer after the
government,” said Karuturi, whose company owns professional
soccer and volleyball teams. “To do that in India, you have to
be a Tata or an Ambani.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mehul Srivastava  in Mumbai at 
 msrivastava6@bloomberg.net ;
 Subramaniam Sharma  in New Delhi at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bret Okeson at   bokeson@bloomberg.net . 