-- Ex-KGB Spy Lebedev Hunts Killers as He Expands U.K. Media Empire
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2010-10-24T23:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/ex-kgb-spy-lebedev-hunts-journalist-killer-as-he-expands-u-k-media-empire.html
Photographs of three murdered
journalists line the glass cabinet at the entrance of  Alexander Lebedev ’s Novaya Gazeta newspaper in Moscow, below a shelf with
a computer  Mikhail Gorbachev  once used.  The portraits, including one of  Anna Politkovskaya , gunned
down four years ago this month, are a reminder that although
Russian billionaire Lebedev spends about $6 million a year
propping up the anti-establishment, corruption-hunting daily
backed by former Soviet President Gorbachev, the true cost of
free speech is often higher.  “You either oppose corruption or not, it’s a matter of
principle,” Lebedev, 50, dressed in black jeans worn out at the
knees, a white dress shirt, gray vest and brown sneakers, said
in an interview at his office in a yellow two-story Moscow villa
last month. Novaya Gazeta struggles because advertisers are
“scared” away by the government, he said.  The ex-KGB spy, who once worked in London under the cover
of an economic attaché, is also bankrolling two unprofitable
U.K. dailies and will tomorrow introduce a new weekday tabloid
called “i” -- the first new national newspaper in Britain
since the Independent was founded about 25 years ago. Lebedev
has plowed 30 million pounds ($48 million) into the  London
Evening Standard  and  Independent  newspapers over the past two
years and has yet to make any money from them.  Building Influence  “If we leave things as they are at the Standard and The
Independent, we are definitely doomed in a few years’ time,”
Lebedev said in his office, where visitors must show their
passports to gain entrance. “Every month I’m taking money out
of my pocket and putting it into the papers.”  His media involvement, Gorbachev says, is a social mission
for Lebedev. “For him this is not a business project,”
Gorbachev said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Altruism may have less to do with it than self-interest.
The billionaire may be seeking to avoid the fate of former Yukos
Chief Executive Officer  Mikhail Khodorkovsky , who was once
Russia’s richest man and an outspoken critic of the government
of former President  Vladimir Putin  before being convicted in
2005 for fraud.  Lebedev, who ran and lost the race for Moscow mayor in 2003
and was elected the following year to the lower house of the
Russian parliament, the Duma, said: “I’m harmless as far as
Putin is concerned.”  Trophy Assets  In the U.K., “Lebedev’s goals are to legalize his capital,
form a distinct image and integrate into the British elite,”
said  Stanislav Belkovsky , head of the Moscow-based Institute for
National Strategy.  The U.K. newspapers are trophy assets he’s been able to buy
cheaply, said  Alex DeGroote , a media analyst at Panmure Gordon &
Co. in London. “For a relatively low sum of money he now has a
seat at the table of influence,” he said.  Lebedev paid 1 pound for the Evening Standard in January
2009 and the same amount for The Independent in March 2010. For
a man of his wealth, the investments he’s made in the newspapers
are chump change for the political status that comes with owning
two major U.K. dailies, said George Brock, head of journalism at
City University London.  “There is a queue of millionaires and oligarchs who want
to own newspapers,” Brock said.  Airplanes to Potatoes  The son of an engineering professor father and a
schoolteacher mother, Lebedev amassed an estimated $2 billion
fortune from banks, airplanes and growing potatoes, giving him
the means to finance his media hobby. The transformation from
apparatchik to entrepreneur began with the purchase for $500,000
of a small bank, the  National Reserve Bank , in the 1990s, when
assets in Russia were cheap after the fall of communism.  The bank thrived in post-communist Russia and was among
lenders that survived the 1998 Russian financial crisis,
according  to Lebedev’s official biography website , allowing him
to buy assets including a stake in Russian airline OAO Aeroflot,
shares of natural gas company OAO Gazprom and property in
various countries.  Among liberal voices in Russia, Lebedev set up the
Independent Democratic Party with Gorbachev and bought into
Novaya Gazeta in 2006. Forbes magazine estimated his net worth
at $2 billion this year, making him the  488th richest person  in
the world.  Now, with two unprofitable U.K. newspapers, Lebedev joins
publishers such as  Rupert Murdoch  and the New York Times Co. in
seeking ways to generate income from a newspaper industry in
decline as readers look to the Internet for their news.  Evening Standard  Lebedev has begun to turn around the Evening Standard,
which he says is approaching profitability after losing an
annual 20 million pounds before he bought it.  He made the afternoon daily free, charged advertisers more
and also benefitted from two free London newspapers shuttering,
including one owned by Murdoch’s  News Corp . The newspaper’s
circulation has climbed to 700,000 from 287,000.  “There are weeks when we are profitable at the moment,”
said  Andrew Mullins , managing director for the Evening Standard
and Independent newspapers. He forecast the Standard will break
even at the end of 2012.  The Independent will prove harder, Lebedev said. The
Independent daily and weekend newspapers and their website lost
12.4 million pounds in 2009. The newspaper isn’t distributed on
street corners in London like the Standard, and it won’t follow
suit by becoming free, in part because broadsheets in the U.K.
“would be offended,” Lebedev said. “I’m trying to save a
newspaper, why should I hit at the others by going free?”  Journalism Causes  Money to run the newspapers comes entirely from Lebedev’s
pocket, mainly dividends from his other businesses, such as his
20 percent stake in  Aeroflot , Russia’s largest airline.  While making money from the media operations is important
for Lebedev, the oligarch presents his investments as a
commitment to the freedom of the press.  Lebedev says he wants to seek support from people like
 Bono , Gorbachev, the Clintons and former news editors to raise
$80 million to start a center for investigative journalism.  One of his latest causes is lobbying for the release of
Irek Murtazin in Tatarstan, who was jailed after writing a book
criticizing the country’s political system.  After Anna Politkovskaya, a reporter at his Novaya Gazeta -
- who was critical of Putin and the handling of the Chechen
conflict -- was shot dead in the elevator of her apartment
building, Lebedev offered a $1 million reward for the capture of
her killers. The crime has yet to be solved.  Political Enemies  Lebedev’s campaigns have earned him enemies.  “Many officials in Russia hate him because of our
newspaper and his jokes and free speech,” said Novaya Gazeta
Editor-in-Chief Dmitry Muratov. “He has a lot of problems with
the government. The government interferes with his business.”  Still, his success has prompted suspicions that he has
connections with the Kremlin and helps harness the opposition.  “He’s a former KGB officer, which makes people
automatically suspicious,” said  Alexei Simonov , editor of the
Moscow-based Glasnost Defense Foundation. “I do think he has
some connections with the Kremlin and it couldn’t be otherwise,
but there are also anti-Kremlin ideas inside the Kremlin.”  Lebedev’s criticisms of the government are also guarded,
said National Strategy’s Belkovsky. “He criticizes corrupt
bureaucrats or projects but not the regime as a whole,” he
said.  Muratov said Lebedev sometimes disagrees with the
newspaper, and writes opinion pieces, while never trying to
determine its editorial direction.  Oligarch Lifestyle  Lebedev leaves the running of his U.K. newspapers to his
30-year-old son, Evgeny, who is the chairman of Independent
Print Ltd., owner of the London Evening Standard and
Independent. Evgeny, who lives in London and runs the Sake No
Hana restaurant and Wintle fashion house, will manage Lebedev’s
new “i” tabloid.  The new title will be an up-market newspaper aimed at
females, younger readers and commuters, according to Mullins.  “We aim to attract back lapsed and new readers to the
quality market,” he said, declining to disclose circulation
targets. The newspaper will cost 20 pence, or 30 cents, a copy.  Lebedev also has a one-year-old son with his second wife
Elena Perminova, a 24-year-old former model. The billionaire has
the lifestyle of an oligarch -- a characterization he doesn’t
like. He owns homes in Italy and France and has one on the
grounds of Henry VIII’s Hampton Court Palace in London.  He holds the annual star-studded “Midsummer Gala” in his
Hampton Court home for the Raisa Gorbachev Foundation, which
raises money for children’s cancer. The event has attracted the
likes of  Hugh Grant ,  Anjelica Huston  and  Vanessa Redgrave , as
well as musicians including Duran Duran’s Simon Le Bon.  ‘The Mission’  The yoga-practicing entrepreneur, who enjoys reading the
 Financial Times  and the Economist on weekends, credits his years
in London as a KGB agent for his business acumen. His purchases
of the Evening Standard and the Independent, which he says he
“saved,” are his way of giving something back to the city.  “It’s not about money, even though I dream of having
positive financial results,” Lebedev said. “I do believe in a
mission, which is not easy at all.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Schweizer  in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 