-- Shanghai Expo Breaks Record as 70 Million People Visit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-25T07:10:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/expo-meets-target-of-record-70-million-visitors-as-event-enters-final-week.html
China passed its target of 70
million visitors to the 2010 Shanghai  World Expo , reaching the
world record figure as the six-month exhibition enters its final
week.  The number was achieved at 10:17 a.m. local time yesterday,
according to the official  website  of the exhibition that opened
in China’s  financial hub  on May 1. A total of 64 million people
visited the 1970 Osaka World Expo in Japan, the state-run Xinhua
News Agency reported.  “Passing the target reflects the fact China’s economy is
healthy and vigorous despite the world financial crisis,” said
Lu Hongjun, president of the Shanghai Institute of International
Finance at the Pudong Continuing Education Center. “The Expo
will continue to fuel development of service, education and
healthcare industries for Shanghai for three to five years.”  The number of visitors to the Expo in China’s richest city
is more than 10 times the number who traveled to the 2008
Beijing Olympics. The biennial exhibition is being held under
the theme of “Better City, Better Life” with about 190
countries and 50 international organizations participating.  The Expo site includes five central theme pavilions as well
as hundreds of national and corporate exhibition sites.  A total of 70.7 million people had attended the Expo as of
2 p.m. yesterday, the organizers said on the website. Of those,
727,600 visited yesterday. Most visitors are Chinese.  “The news that total visitors surpassed 70 million is
exciting, and it is also an encouragement and a positive
response,” the Expo organizers said in a statement on the
website.  Queuing for Hours  People queued in the rain as a cold snap reached eastern
China on Oct. 23, the Oriental Morning Post reported yesterday.
Visitors have to wait for several hours to get inside popular
pavilions while a family from China’s western province of
Sichuan queued eight hours to get into Saudi Arabia’s pavilion,
according to the report.  As many as 1.03 million people visited the exhibition on
Oct. 16, marking a daily record. Many could only walk around
outside pavilions, and all parades were canceled because of the
large numbers, Xinhua reported.  There will be a forum on sustainable development of cities
in the Expo center on Oct. 31, followed by a closing ceremony,
according to the press office of the World Expo. Almost 2,000
delegates, government leaders, Nobel Prize winners and
entrepreneurs including former German Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder  and  Ban Ki-Moon , secretary-general of the United
Nations, will attend the forum, the office said.  Shanghai allocated 28.6 billion yuan ($4.3 billion) for
building and operating the Expo and 270 billion yuan for new
infrastructure for the city, including two airport terminals and
a three-year renovation of the city’s Bund waterfront area.  -- Alfred Cang ,  Helen Yuan  in Shanghai. Editors:  Paul Tighe ,
 Jonathan Annells   To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Alfred Cang in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7015 or
 acang@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3028 or
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  