-- Federal Reserve Asset Buying May Reach $2 Trillion, Goldman's Hatzius Says
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-10-24T22:47:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/federal-reserve-asset-buying-may-reach-2-trillion-goldman-s-hatzius-says.html
The Federal Reserve may purchase $2
trillion of assets to stimulate the U.S. economy and start by
announcing a fresh round of monetary easing on Nov. 3, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. said.  “We expect an announcement of $500 billion or perhaps
slightly more over a period of about six months,” Jan Hatzius,
the New York-based chief U.S. economist at Goldman Sachs, said
in an e-mailed note. “The key question, however, is not the
size of the first step, but how far Fed officials will
ultimately need to move to achieve their dual mandate of low
inflation and maximum sustainable employment.”  The world’s largest economy grew at a 2 percent annual pace
in the third quarter, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the Commerce
Department’s Oct. 29 report on gross domestic product. That’s
unlikely to be strong enough to give the 14.8 million  unemployed 
Americans hope of finding work soon, one reason why Fed policy
makers may be about to pump more money into the economy.  The Fed is “almost certain” to announce additional
monetary easing next month, Hatzius said. The committee may also
announce a monthly purchase rate of perhaps $100 billion that
will remain in place until the outlook for jobs and inflation
improve “significantly,” he wrote.  The cost of living in the U.S. rose less than forecast in
September a report showed Oct. 15, indicating companies are
keeping a lid on price increases to stoke demand. The consumer-
price index rose 0.1 percent, compared with projections for a
0.2 percent gain, Labor Department figures showed.  ‘Zero Bound’  Goldman Sachs estimates that the “zero bound” has kept
the Fed funds rate about 700 basis points too high to achieve
the central bank’s desired inflation and unemployment levels.
Easy fiscal policy, the Fed’s first round of asset purchases and
the central bank’s commitment to hold the benchmark interest
rate near zero for an extended period have reduced that gap by
400 basis points, Hatzius wrote. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Goldman estimates that as much as $4 trillion of additional
large-scale asset purchases might be needed to bring inflation
and unemployment into line with the Fed’s targets. That’s based
on projections that $1 trillion in asset purchases equates to a
75 basis point cut in the benchmark rate, Hatzius said in the
note dated Oct. 22.  The Fed is unlikely to buy that much unless the economy
gets much worse, Hatzius said. The key U.S. rate has been in a
range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  