-- Fischer `in a Bind' as Investors Bet Inflation May Accelerate
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2010-10-24T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/fischer-in-a-bind-as-inflation-fight-challenged-by-strengthening-shekel.html
Investors in Israel are paying the
biggest premium in more than a year to protect against inflation
as the stronger shekel spurs speculation central bank Governor
 Stanley Fischer  will refrain from raising interest rates.  The spread between inflation-linked bonds due October 2014
and fixed-rate notes of similar maturity grew 27 basis points
this month to 309, or 3.09 percentage points, on Oct. 21, the
widest level since at least June 2009. Fischer, 67, is likely to
leave the benchmark interest rate unchanged at 2 percent today,
according to 17 of 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Inflation accelerated a more-than-forecast 2.4 percent in
September, driven by higher food and housing prices. While
Fischer has raised  borrowing costs  by 1.5 percentage points
since the end of the economic recession in the second quarter of
2009, higher interest rates may spur more gains in the shekel,
which appreciated 7 percent over the second half of the year.  “Investors think Fischer is in a bind right now due to the
appreciation of the shekel, so they are willing to overpay to
protect against inflation,” said  Assaf Rosenberg , a trader at
Excellence Investments Ltd., an investment and underwriting
company in Ramat Gan. “It’s going to be hard for him to raise
rates rapidly, further strengthening the shekel.”  Fischer’s dilemma is being faced by policy makers across
emerging markets as near zero interest rates in the U.S., Europe
and Japan spur record inflows into developing nation stock and
bond funds, driving gains in currencies and undermining export
growth. Brazil raised a tax on foreign investment in bonds twice
this month to stem inflows while South Korea is discussing
several measures such as a bank tax or levy on financial
transactions.  ‘Investors Worried’  Israel’s inflation accelerated for the first time in nine
months in September as housing costs rose an annual 6 percent
after supply failed to keep up with demand, and fruit and
vegetable prices surged 10 percent. Inflation is expected to
accelerate to about 2.8 percent over the next 12 months, the
Bank of Israel said on Oct. 11.  “Investors are worried in the short term about a rise in
commodities and vegetables prices and in the long-term there is
deep concern about a housing boom that could push up
inflation,” said  Alex Zabezhinsky,  chief economist at DS
Securities & Investments.  Rates  The spread between shekel-denominated inflation-linked and
fixed-rate securities could widen to as much as 330 basis
points, or 3.3 percentage points, said  Yariv Yourista,  a Tel
Aviv-based senior analyst at Edmond de Rothschild Portfolio
Management. Should the yield difference widen to 350 basis
points, Fischer probably will raise rates to dampen inflation
expectations even at the expense of spurring shekel gains,
Yourista said.  A Bank of Israel spokesman wasn’t immediately available for
comment when contacted by telephone and e-mail by Bloomberg.  Fischer raised the key rate six times since July 2009 to 2
percent in a bid to stem inflation.  Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz said in an interview on
Oct. 5 it would be a threat to exports if Israel opened “a
larger” interest rate gap between the country and the U.S.
Exports account for about half of gross domestic product.  ’Balancing Act’  Inflation-linked corporate bonds are also outperforming
fixed-rate corporate bonds. The  Tel-Bond 40 index , a mostly
inflation-linked index with an average maturity of 4.9 years,
returned 2.2 percent since the start of the month while the Tel
Aviv Bond Shekel Index, composed of non-linked bonds with an
average maturity of 5 years, returned 1.7 percent in the period.  Fischer has stepped up dollar purchases to try to curb the
shekel’s rally, buying foreign currency since March 2008. The
central bank bought $699 million last month helping boost
foreign currency reserves to a record $66.3 billion in
September.  “It’s a balancing act,” Yourista said. “This is why he’s
massively increased interventions. He still can’t raise rates
too quickly otherwise that will push the shekel even higher.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wainer  in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler in Dubai at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 