-- Florida Senate Candidates Battle Over Merits of Extending Bush Tax Cuts
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2010-10-24T15:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/florida-senate-candidates-battle-over-merits-of-extending-bush-tax-cuts.html
The three Florida candidates for the
U.S. Senate, heading into the final week of the 2010 campaign,
battled today over the merits of President  Barack Obama ’s
economic agenda and extending the tax cuts implemented under his
predecessor, Republican  George W. Bush .  Marco Rubio , the Republican  nominee  and front-runner in
most polls, said the Obama administration’s policies have
created an atmosphere of uncertainty in which companies can’t
commit to hiring new workers.  Businesses “are afraid of what next year is going to mean
in terms of taxes, regulation and the health-care bill,” Rubio
said today in a debate on CNN’s “State of the Union.”  He ruled out signing onto any compromise that doesn’t
extend all the Bush-era tax cuts enacted in 2001 and 2003, which
lowered rates on wages and investments for all Americans, and
which are due to expire on Dec. 31.  Obama favors extending the tax cuts only for households
earning less than $250,000, about 98 percent of all taxpayers.
Rubio argued that anything short of extending them for all
Americans, poor and wealthy alike, would amount to a tax
increase at a particularly vulnerable time for the U.S. economy.  “There’s a difference between compromise and cutting a
deal,” Rubio said. “Compromise is a good thing. Cutting deals
in Washington, there’s too much of that.”  Rubio, who has received strong support from Tea Party
activists, held a 15-percentage point lead over Florida Governor
 Charlie Crist , who is running for Senate as an independent, and
a 21-point advantage over four-term Democratic congressman
 Kendrick Meek  in a  poll  released yesterday by the St. Petersburg
Times, Miami Herald and Bay News 9.  Cards Dealt  Meek  defended  Obama’s economic strategy, including the
stimulus of 2009, as “dealing with the cards we were dealt” by
the previous administration and the economic crisis that reached
its peak in the fall of 2008.  He said the Bush tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 were designed to
be temporary and shouldn’t be extended for the most-well-off
Americans.  “There were surpluses,” he said. “There are no longer
surpluses. So we’re digging a deeper hole. And what Rubio and
also Crist are representing, let’s continue to dig, and trickle-
down economics will work for the middle class in creating
jobs.”  Crist,  running  as an independent, straddled the positions
of his rivals, supporting a compromise on the tax cuts.  “I want all the tax cuts extended, but sometimes you’ve
got to give relief to the people and they deserve it now,”
Crist said. “If there’s a way to go ahead and do that in the
short term and then after January to push for the other tax
cuts, that’s what I think the real solution is.”  ‘This Kind of Bickering’  Crist, who dropped his party affiliation in April while
trailing Rubio in the Republican primary, said he became an
independent because of “this kind of bickering back and forth,
not being able to figure out what to do, ideological arguments
without common sense.”  Meek shot back: “We know why the governor is running as an
independent, because he couldn’t beat Marco Rubio.”  At least five Senate Democrats and all 41 Republicans say
Bush-era tax cuts should be extended across-the-board to help
the economy recover from the worst recession since World War II.  Democrats control 59 seats in the Senate; party leaders
have delayed a vote on their tax plan until after November’s
midterm elections, having concluding that, before the balloting,
they wouldn’t find 60 votes needed to advance the measure.  Like other incumbents across the U.S., Crist has been
blamed by voters for the weak economy. Florida was one of only
two states, along with Maryland, to see its unemployment rate
rise in August, reaching 11.7 percent, compared with the 9.6
percent national rate, according to the Bureau of Labor
Statistics.  The state has the second-highest foreclosure rate in the
country, behind Nevada, more than twice the national average,
according to RealtyTrac, an Irvine, California-based data
provider.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Mattingly  in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  