-- French Fuel Service-Station Disruption to Worsen on Sunday Delivery Halt
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2010-10-24T22:24:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/french-fuel-supply-disruptions-to-worsen-today-as-strike-curbs-deliveries.html
Shortages at French fuel service
stations will worsen today after insufficient deliveries
yesterday, the refiners’ group  Union Francaise des Industries
Petrolieres  said, as oil industry workers are striking to oppose
the government plan to raise the retirement age.  “We didn’t supply much” yesterday “so the situation will
be more difficult for everyone,”  Jean-Louis Schilansky , head of
the UFIP told  Agence France-Presse  yesterday. “And as we’ve
given fuel in priority to highway stations, the rest will suffer
a bit more during the day,” he added. Supplies were further
reduced because truck drivers transporting fuel in France aren’t
allowed to drive on Sundays, Schilansky said.  One quarter of France’s 12,300 stations faced supply
disruptions yesterday. Workers at ports, refineries and fuel
suppliers are opposing President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s plan to
increase the retirement age to 62 from 60. Workers pledged to
maintain blockades ahead of the Oct. 28 demonstrations called by
labor unions.  French imports of fuel rose to 100,000 tons a day from an
average 20,000 to 25,000 tons in normal days, Schilansky said
Oct. 23. “The situation in France starts having an impact on
markets, costs are getting higher,” he said,  Le Point weekly ’s
website reported. He said yesterday on  France 3 television  that
France is pumping as much as 40,000 tons of fuel a day out of
its strategic reserves.  Strike to Continue  “The strike will continue at least until Oct. 28,”  CFDT 
union representative Fabrice Certain told France 3 late
yesterday. “If and when refineries resume working, it will take
at least 10 days for them to function properly.”  Supply will resume “slowly, progressively,” and seven
districts, mainly in western France, still faced shortages,
 Raymond Soubie , Sarkozy’s aide, said yesterday on  Europe 1
radio . The shortages are disrupting France’s week-long All-
Saints holiday, which started Oct. 22.  After France’s Senate passed Sarkozy’s pensions overhaul
bill Oct. 22, labor unions pledged to continue disruption and
protest. “We’re asking the President not to enact this law,”
 CGT’s union  chief  Bernard Thibault  told France 5 television
network yesterday. Unions called for a 5th day of strikes on
Oct. 28 and demonstrations on Nov. 6.  Shortly after Thibault’s remarks, Labor Minister  Eric Woerth  said “it is useless to strike today,” on France 3’s
 late evening news show . “The law is voted, it’s out of the
question to debate this bill again.” Soubie said the
legislation may be enacted Nov. 15.  Terminals Blocked  The  port of Marseille , which supplies Fos and Lavera,
France’s main oil terminals, has been blocked for 29 days, as
refinery workers are demanding to retire earlier because they
have so-called hardship jobs, according to the Confederation
Generale du Travail, the biggest union among refinery, port, gas
and power workers.  The port of Marseille said the strike has left 73 vessels
stranded including 37 tankers carrying crude, 19 with refined
products and 10 with natural gas.  Crude oil rose on speculation that growing French demand
for imported fuel will reduce stockpiles elsewhere and on
concern that a tropical storm may strengthen and head toward
Mexican oil fields. Energy Minister  Jean-Louis Borloo  said Oct.
22 that France is “massively” importing fuel from European
neighbors to face the shortage.  Hedge Fund Speculation  Hedge funds and other large speculators increased wagers on
rising prices to 57,640 futures and options contracts for the
week ended Oct. 19, the highest level since May 7, according to
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s weekly Commitments of
Traders report. The bets have risen by 58,809 contracts since
the week ended Aug. 31, when wagers on declines outnumbered
those on gains by 1,169 contracts.  Gasoline for November delivery rose 2.28 cents, or 1.1
percent, to settle at $2.0638 a gallon on Oct. 22 on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. Prices dropped 1.9 percent last week,
the second consecutive decline.  Supplies of the fuel to the U.S. East Coast, the nation’s
main destination for European gasoline, dropped 13 percent to
53.5 million barrels from Sept. 17 to Oct. 15, according to the
Energy Department in Washington. That’s the lowest level since
the week ended Aug. 28, 2009. In the week through Oct. 15, the
region received 585,000 barrels a day, or 25 percent less than
the five-year average, according to the department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  