-- G-20 to Avoid `Competitive Devaluation,' Prod China
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2010-10-25T07:21:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/g-20-vows-to-avoid-weakening-currencies-as-leaders-prepare-to-prod-china.html
Group of 20 finance chiefs vowed to
avoid weakening currencies to lift exports and left it to a
leaders’ meeting next month to flesh out how to further pressure
member China to allow faster gains in the yuan.  Finance ministers and central bankers ended talks in South
Korea Oct. 23 foreswearing “competitive devaluation” to calm
fears of a trade war stemming from using cheaper currencies to
spur growth. They called for reduced trade imbalances while
stopping short of a U.S. proposal for targets that was aimed at
making a yuan advance more palatable to China. Leaders will take
up the debate at the Seoul summit on Nov. 11-12.  The decisions taken in Gyeongju are unlikely to mark an end
to the dollar’s recent slide or trigger a quicker rise in the
yuan, according to strategists at banks from UBS AG to Westpac
Banking Corp. Investors may now look for direction from the
Federal Reserve’s meeting next week to decide whether to buy
more  assets , a step that may undermine the dollar.  “Tensions may be reduced in the short term, but in the
longer term there are still imbalances,” said  Mansoor Mohi- uddin , the Singapore-based head of global currency strategy at
UBS. The second-biggest currency trader expects the yuan to
reach 6.55 per dollar by year-end, an appreciation of less than
2 percent. “The focus will shift to the Fed’s quantitative
easing for the dollar. The yuan will continue a modest
appreciation.”  Dollar Retreats  The dollar slid today after the meetings omitted any
American pledge to refrain from further so-called quantitative
easing. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  received “criticism” in
Gyeongju after his move toward easier monetary policy pushed the
dollar down, German Economy Minister  Rainer Bruederle  said.  The dollar dropped to a 15-year low against the yen,
sinking as low as 80.66 yen. Against the euro, the dollar
dropped 0.8 percent to $1.4070 as of 8:08 a.m. in London.  “It’s the wrong way to try to prevent or solve problems by
adding more liquidity,” Bruederle said. “Excessive, permanent
money creation in my opinion is an indirect manipulation of an
exchange rate.”  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said at a conference
in Seoul today that “I agree that there’s suggestion that
aggressive quantitative easing in the United States would create
devaluation pressure on the U.S. currency.”  China Drop-by  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , who stopped in
Qingdao, China, yesterday for a meeting with Vice Premier  Wang Qishan , said in an interview he’s optimistic that China will
“continue to move” on the yuan.  The G-20 called the economic recovery “fragile and
uneven.” To increase the say of developing nations in the
International Monetary Fund’s decisions, the G-20 endorsed what
IMF Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  called the
“biggest reform ever” of its governance with European
authorities agreeing to cut their role.  It was the first time the economic policy makers took a
joint stance on exchange rates having previously resisted doing
so for fear of alienating China. The G-20 statement still
recycles language used at previous leaders’ summits in London
and Toronto and falls short of the currency accords of the
1980s.  “I don’t see anything that’s going to discourage people
from resuming selling dollars and buying currencies that look to
be undervalued,” said  Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist
at Westpac in Sydney.  Export Concern  The officials met as China’s restraint of the yuan and the
U.S. dollar’s recent drop force trading partners including South
Korea and Brazil to temper gains in their own floating
currencies to remain competitive.  Geithner predicted China will allow the yuan to appreciate
more because officials there understand it’s in the long-term
interest of domestic growth and global economic stability.  “They recognize it’s important to the world,” he said in
an interview on Oct. 23 with Bloomberg Television. As China’s
currency stance affects more countries, “China recognizes that,
and I think we’re going to see them continue to move.”  David Bloom , global head of currency strategy at HSBC
Holdings Plc in London, nevertheless predicted “the ‘currency
war’ will persist at least through” to the Seoul meeting. That
may spark a dollar rally because ongoing frictions and the
threat they prompt greater capital controls and protectionism
may deter investors from riskier exchange rates, he said.  Japan’s Stance  Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  reiterated that
the G-20 meeting didn’t prompt any change in Japan’s currency
policy, saying it stands ready to counter a rise in the yen if
needed.  To dilute the focus of such gatherings on currencies and
help rebalance the world economy away from excess U.S. demand
and Chinese savings,  Geithner  suggested goals for current-
account deficits or surpluses. While South Korea and Canada back
the strategy, it was challenged by major exporters Germany and
Japan.  The group will adopt “the full range of policies conducive
to reducing excessive imbalances” and making them sustainable,
the statement said. The IMF will deepen its monitoring of
currencies and continuously wide trade deficits.  The G-20 members will expand details by the Seoul forum, a
U.S. official said. Although Noda  said Geithner wanted a 4
percent cap on trade imbalances, the official said the U.S.
doesn’t expect a fixed target and may instead push for a range
aimed at delivering sustainable trade positions by 2015.  Trade Imbalances  “We’re going to make it easier to sustain support in all
countries for more open trade by making sure that we address the
risk of persistently large trade imbalances,” Geithner said.  Bundesbank President  Axel Weber , who also attended the G-20
talks, said Germany shouldn’t be blamed for having a current-
account surplus. Germany is four times more reliant on exports
than the U.S.  A current account is the broadest measure of trade because
it includes investment and transfer income, and it would be hard
to achieve any correction in one without a currency shifting.  Saudi Arabia, Germany, Russia and China all have surpluses
larger than 4 percent, while Turkey and South Africa have
deficits bigger than that, according to the IMF.  Even as it runs a trade surplus and builds currency
reserves, China has curbed the yuan’s rise to about 2 percent
since a June pledge to introduce more flexibility, arguing
anything other than a gradual appreciation would cause social
and economic disruption. At the same time, the Fed has sent the
dollar tumbling by leaning toward buying more assets to tackle
unemployment near a 26-year high and weak inflation.  Emerging Markets  Caught in the middle, emerging markets are embracing
capital controls or intervening themselves to stay competitive
with China and slow the inflow of speculative cash. South Korea
is discussing several measures including a bank tax or levy on
financial transactions, and Brazil last week raised taxes on
foreign capital for the second time this month.  To appease critics, advanced economies agreed to be
“vigilant against excess  volatility  and disorderly movements in
exchange rates,” the G-20 said. Geithner said the U.S. backs a
“strong dollar” and recognizes its global responsibility.  At the IMF, Europe will surrender two seats on the 24-
member executive board and more than 6 percent of so-called
quotas will pass to under-represented countries. Quotas
determine an IMF member’s voting rights, financial commitment
and access to loans. As part of this process, G-20 officials
also agreed to double the IMF’s permanent resources.  Yuan’s Rise  For all the complaints it faces, China let the yuan gain the
most versus the dollar since 2005 in September and by more than
20 percent in the last five years.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Chase
& Co. Asia Currency Index  is up about 3 percent since August.  Such advances are likely to continue because “many key
interests seem to be aligned,”  Thomas Stolper , an economist at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in London, said in an Oct. 22 report.
The U.S. needs a lower currency to help create jobs and the
alternative is even more Fed stimulus, which will end up
propelling more capital into Asia, he said.  U.S. companies from Costco Wholesale Corp. to Deere & Co.
have credited the weaker dollar for boosting earnings.  Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index  firms that get more than half of their
revenue internationally have returned about 5.5 percentage
points more than those whose sales comes mostly from the U.S.
since the start of September, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Once the fact has been accepted that the dollar has to
weaken because there are no real alternatives it is all about
managing the process on a global scale,” Stolper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in Gyeongju, South Korea, at
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  