-- Gagosian Sells $20 Million Art in Paris, Plans Global Growth
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2010-10-24T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/gagosian-sells-20-million-art-in-paris-planning-global-growth-interview.html
Larry Gagosian  can afford to smile
as he stands in his new gallery. The American in Paris watches
as his show of  Cy Twombly  works lures billionaire buyers.  The French branch of Gagosian, the world’s biggest
commercial gallery network, sold more than $20 million of
Twombly paintings at its opening, dealers say. This month, its
owner was awarded the French Legion d’Honneur and also topped
Art Review’s Power 100  list .  “I’m hoping to give the artists I represent more exposure
in Europe, specifically in Paris,” Gagosian says in an
interview. “During the last five years the city has become more
significant in the global art landscape. Artists have always had
a strong connection with this city. I feel comfortable about
being here.”  Gagosian, 65, is expanding as the art market slowly
recovers from recession: while other galleries failed, he opened
in Athens last year with another Twombly show. The presence of
collectors such as  Francois Pinault  and  Bernard Arnault  is
boosting Paris’s rivalry with London as the capital of Europe’s
art market. The Gagosian opening coincided with the Foire
Internationale d’Art Contemporain, or FIAC.  The 350-square-meter (3,757 square feet) Gagosian space, at
4, rue de Ponthieu in Paris’s affluent 8th arrondissement,
debuts with an exhibition of five new acrylic abstracts and five
bronze sculptures by Twombly.  The 82-year-old Rome-based artist’s 8-foot-high orange and
yellow “Camino Real” paintings are inspired by a 1953
 Tennessee Williams  play.  Paintings Sold  Priced between $4 million and $5 million each, all the
paintings sold before the gallery officially opened on Oct. 20,
according to three dealers with knowledge of the matter who
declined to be named. Gagosian doesn’t release prices or comment
on sales, said Christelle Maureau, the gallery’s Paris-based
press attache.  Gagosian wears an open-necked white shirt and blue suit,
modestly lacking his Legionnaire’s lapel pin: He was given
France’s highest decoration in recognition of his impact on
Parisian cultural life two days before his gallery opened.  “ Frederic Mitterrand , the culture minister, gave me the
award in the gallery,” says Gagosian. “Then we went for
dinner.” The party ate at Le Stresa, an  Italian  restaurant in
the 8th arrondissement.  Gagosian Paris is the ninth gallery the U.S. dealer has
opened since founding the company in Los Angeles in 1979. He now
has exhibition spaces in the U.S., the U.K., Italy, Greece and
France.  Global Strategy  “Larry has a global strategy,” the London-based dealer
Offer Waterman says in an interview. “It only takes three
billionaires for  Louis Vuitton  to set up shop in a country.
They’ve recently opened a branch in Mongolia.” The luxury goods
company’s store is located at Ulaanbaatar Central Tower. France
has 12 dollar billionaires, Forbes said in March 2010.  “Larry knows he can get the best artists, because he has
the best gallery representation. He’s become bigger than the
artists themselves,” Waterman says. “He’s become a global
brand.”  Paris dealer  Patrick Seguin  is showing prefabricated
architecture by the French designer  Jean Prouve  in Gagosian’s
upstairs project space. Two original steel-framed timber houses
-- whose construction process is shown on videos -- are priced
at 800,000 euros ($1.1 million) and 600,000 euros, said Seguin,
who collaborated with Gagosian on a Prouve show in Los Angeles
in 2004.  ( Scott Reyburn  writes for Muse, the arts and culture
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Scott Reyburn  in Paris at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 