-- Geithner Expects China Will `Continue to Move' on Stronger Yuan
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   P e t e r   C o o k
-- 2010-10-24T15:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/geithner-says-china-will-continue-to-move-on-stronger-yuan-after-g-20.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  expects China will allow the yuan to strengthen because
officials there understand it’s in the interest both of domestic
growth and global economic stability.  “They recognize it’s important to the world,” Geithner
said in an interview on Oct. 23 with Bloomberg Television, after
a meeting of finance ministers and central bankers in Gyeongju,
South Korea. As China’s currency stance affects more countries,
“China recognizes that, and I think we’re going to see them
continue to move.”  Geithner made the comments a day before an unscheduled
visit to China for talks with Vice Premier  Wang Qishan  to
discuss relations between the world’s two largest economies.
Under pressure from Congress to combat what Geithner says is an
undervalued yuan, the Obama administration used this weekend’s
meetings to secure an agreement among the Group of 20 officials
to avoid weakening their currencies. They also vowed to increase
efforts to reduce trade imbalances.  Chinese officials still have a “ways to go” on loosening
the yuan’s ties to the dollar, the Treasury chief said.  “But I think they’re committed to do that, because they
recognize it’s in their interest,” he said.  Pledge  The G-20 talks concluded with a pledge to examine
guidelines for current-account surpluses and deficits, without
specifying how nations would set those goals. In the interview,
Geithner said he believed 4 percent of gross domestic product
would become the “benchmark” for whether trade balances are
misaligned.  Geithner and Wang “exchanged views on U.S.-China economic
relations” in the run up to next month’s G-20 leaders’ summit
in Seoul, the Treasury said in a statement yesterday.  G-20 officials agreed to strengthen the International
Monetary Fund’s surveillance powers, saying the Washington-based
lender should monitor budgets, financial regulation and foreign
exchange policies.  The IMF’s role will be to provide “an early warning
system” for problematic swings in trade flows, Geithner said.  “It will help provoke changes in policies to reduce the
risks that those will be sustained,” said Geithner, who worked
at the IMF from 2001 to 2003. “The IMF has to play cop.”  The current account is the broadest measure of trade
because it includes investment and transfer income, and it would
be hard to achieve any correction in one without a currency
shifting. Saudi Arabia, Germany, Russia and  China  all run
surpluses larger than 4 percent of GDP, while Turkey and South
Africa have deficits bigger than that, according to the IMF.  German Resistance  Bundesbank President  Axel Weber , who also attended the
Gyeongju talks, said Germany shouldn’t be blamed for having a
current-account surplus. Other countries, including Brazil,
Japan and South Korea, have taken steps to limit gains in their
currency to boost exporters and protect against swings in
foreign investment.  Heading into the meetings in South Korea, Geithner warned
that the world was encountering a “dangerous dynamic” fueled
by China’s reluctance to let the yuan rise more than 2 percent
since a June pledge to make its foreign exchange policy more
flexible. As a result, countries with more flexible exchange
rates are “under a lot of pressure” to maintain growth and
stability, he said in the interview.  Emerging Economies  “That pressure is magnified because some countries are
still limiting the appreciation of their currency. And that’s
unfair,” Geithner said. “The capital is flowing to where the
exchange rates are moving.”  The U.S., Europe and Japan should no longer dominate
foreign-exchange policy negotiations, and developed nations need
to maintain efforts to boost growth, Geithner said. Instead,
talks should be held with a wider range of countries and take
into account the circumstances that different commodity
producers face, depending on the size of their economies.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  did not need to
take a “defensive” position in the G-20 talks when explaining
the central bank’s monetary policy approach, Geithner said, even
though Germany criticized the Fed for adding to global
imbalances with talk of asset purchases to increase liquidity.  Geithner said the Obama administration will continue its
efforts to convince Congress to pass additional economic aid
measures, while extending tax breaks for households earning less
than $250,000 per year.  “If we can go extend those middle-class tax cuts, and add
some well-designed, targeted incentives for business investment,
that will help us dig out of this more quickly,” Geithner said.
“I’m sure that it will happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Gyeongju, South Korea
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net  