-- Geithner, China's Wang Discuss Economy, G-20 Talks at Meeting in Qingdao
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-10-24T06:03:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/geithner-china-s-wang-discussed-economy-g-20-summit-in-qingdao-meeting.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and China’s Vice Premier  Wang Qishan , in talks today in
Qingdao, China, discussed ties between the world’s two largest
economies and prepared for a summit of Group of 20 leaders in
South Korea next month.  “The two sides exchanged views on U.S.-China economic
relations and the preparation for the leaders’ summit in
Seoul,” the U.S. Treasury Department said in a statement a day
after a meeting of Group of 20 finance ministers and central
bankers in Gyeongju, South Korea.  Geithner was joined at the two-hour lunch meeting by  Lael Brainard , the Treasury’s undersecretary for international
affairs, and  David Dollar , the department’s economic and
financial emissary to China. Geithner departed for Washington
after the meeting.  The U.S. Treasury chief’s visit follows a joint stance from
G-20 finance officials on exchange rates as they sought to end
concern that nations are relying on cheap currencies to spur
growth, risking a protectionist backlash.  The G-20 agreed to “move towards more market determined
exchange rate systems that reflect underlying economic
fundamentals and refrain from competitive devaluation of
currencies,” according to its post-meeting statement.  At the Korea meetings, Geithner said it was important that
China continues with “very promising” efforts to allow a
strengthening of the yuan. The nation played a “very
constructive” role in this week’s G-20 talks, he said.  The global economy still faces “very substantial economic
challenges,” Geithner said, and he called for a continued
“gradual” appreciation of emerging-market currencies against
their advanced economy counterparts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Gyeongju, South Korea, at
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  