-- Giants `Misfits' Beat Phillies to Win NLCS, Reach World Series vs. Rangers
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-24T05:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/giants-misfits-beat-phillies-to-win-nlcs-reach-world-series-vs-rangers.html
The San Francisco Giants’ group of
“castoffs and misfits” heads to the World Series against the
Texas Rangers after ending the Philadelphia Phillies’ two-year
reign as National League champions.  Juan Uribe  hit a solo home run in the eighth inning to
help the Giants beat the Phillies 3-2 last night at
Philadelphia’s Citizens Bank Park and win the best-of-seven NL
Championship Series four games to two.  The Giants held the Phillies scoreless over the final
eight innings to return to the World Series for the first time
since 2002. While the Rangers haven’t won a  World Series  in
their 50-year history, the Giants last won Major League
Baseball’s championship in 1954, four years before they moved
to San Francisco from New York.  “We fought, we scratched, we clawed -- I don’t know how we
did it, but we did it,” said Giants outfielder  Pat Burrell ,
who played for the Phillies’ World Series championship team in
2008. “We’re going to enjoy this for a while and we’ll be
ready to go Wednesday.”  The World Series begins Oct. 27 in San Francisco. The
Giants will likely start two-time Cy Young Award-winning
pitcher  Tim Lincecum  in Game 1 against the Rangers’  Cliff Lee ,
who has a 7-0 career postseason record.  The Giants denied the Phillies a third straight trip to
the World Series one day after the Rangers eliminated the
defending-champion New York Yankees in the American League
Championship Series, also in six games.  Postseason Underdogs  The Phillies entered the postseason as World Series
favorites among Las Vegas oddsmakers and the Yankees were the
second choice. The Giants were the fourth choice among the
eight playoff teams at 8-1, followed by the Rangers at 10-1.  “Not bad for a bunch of castoffs and misfits,” Giants
manager  Bruce Bochy  said during last night’s postgame
celebration. “It just goes to show you what happens when you
get a group of guys that are all trying to accomplish the same
thing and playing with a lot of heart.”  The Giants were in first place in the NL West Division for
only 37 days during the regular season, the fewest of any team
this postseason. Their strength is a pitching staff that led
the majors in Earned Run Average and strikeouts while holding 
opposing hitters to a major-league low .236 batting average.  Five pitchers combined to hold the Phillies scoreless 
last night after starter  Jonathan Sanchez  gave up 
two first-inning runs and was taken from the game in the 
third.  Brian Wilson  got the final five outs for his 
third save in the series and struck out  Ryan Howard  to end 
the game with two runners on base.  Howard Shut Down  Howard, who was fourth in the NL with 108 runs batted in
during the regular season, didn’t have any RBI for the Phillies
during the postseason.  “The whole world just saw how we won games all year long,”
Giants first baseman Aubrey Huff said in a televised interview.
“We don’t hammer people into submission, we just get great 
pitching.”  Huff, who has played for five major league teams, 
drove in the Giants’ first run with a single in the
top of the third inning and scored the tying run on a throwing
error by Phillies third baseman  Placido Polanco .  The benches cleared in the bottom of the third,
when Sanchez hit  Chase Utley  in the back with a pitch. Utley
caught the ball on a bounce as he ran up the first base line
and flipped it toward the pitcher’s mound.  Sanchez and Utley then exchanged words as players from
both teams ran onto the field.  Sanchez Taken Out  While there were no ejections, Sanchez was lifted after
throwing 26 balls and 24 strikes.  Jeremy Affeldt ,  Madison Bumgarner ,  Javier Lopez , Lincecum and Wilson then limited the
Phillies to five hits the rest of the way.  “They had an unbelievable team over there and we managed
through it,” said Giants outfielder  Cody Ross , who was voted
NLCS Most Valuable Player after hitting three home runs against
the Phillies. The Giants claimed Ross off waivers from the
Florida Marlins on Aug. 23.  Phillies starting pitcher  Roy Oswalt  held the Giants to
two runs over six innings before giving way to  Ryan Madson , who
got five outs before allowing Uribe’s opposite-field homer in
the eighth.  Uribe hit a career-high 24 home runs during the regular
season, the second-most for the Giants behind Huff’s 26.  The Phillies, seeking to become the first NL team to make
the World Series three years in a row since the St. Louis
Cardinals from 1942-44, had two runners on base in both the
eighth and ninth innings.  Wilson’s Save  After Lincecum -- making his first relief appearance since
2008 -- allowed consecutive one-out singles in the eighth,
Wilson got  Carlos Ruiz  to line into an inning-ending double
play. In the ninth, Wilson walked  Jimmy Rollins  and Utley
before throwing a third strike past Howard that silenced the
Philadelphia crowd.  “It’s epic, what a battle we’ve had since spring,”
Wilson said after clinching the Giants’ fourth NL pennant since
the team moved to San Francisco. “Day in and day out we played
one-run ball games and we were able to lock it down on a
consistent basis. We’ve earned this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  