-- Greenspan's Bubbles to Lose Air in Frothy China: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2010-10-24T19:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/greenspan-bubbles-to-lose-air-in-frothy-china-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
China ’s 10 percent growth never
quite feels right when you’re walking the streets of Shanghai.  That’s the thing about the nation’s booming coastal cities.
Growth often feels like 20 percent, or higher. What tamps down
official gross domestic product figures is the fact that most of
China’s 1.3 billion people live nowhere near the skyscrapers,
bright lights and construction cranes of Shanghai.  We are seeing cracks in this virtuous dichotomy. Growth
slowed to 9.6 percent in the third quarter from 10.3 percent in
the second and 11.9 percent in the first. Yet  inflation , which
many believe is already understated, accelerated to the fastest
pace in almost two years. It’s a sign frothy China needs to get
serious about overheating risks before they spread everywhere.  Now, something may be afoot to put China on more stable
turf: the end of the “Wen put,” China’s version of America’s
“Greenspan put” that propped up asset prices in dangerous ways.  The next two years are make-or-break ones for China.
President  Hu Jintao  and Premier  Wen Jiabao  aren’t lame ducks as
they reach the twilight of their periods of influence. The
dynamic is the opposite of, say, the U.S. As China’s leaders
spend their political capital and choose successors, they have a
remarkable chance to reform an economy showing signs of strain.  China’s leaders often seem more about censorship and
blocking  Google Inc. ’s search engine than big changes that would
make the most populous nation more sustainable 10 years from now.
Thankfully, the more reform-minded Wen appears to be on the case.  Gloves Are Off  The gloves are coming off. China’s central bank raised
interest rates last week for the first time since the global
crisis. It’s far more important to dispel the notion that the
government will dogmatically keep GDP above 9 percent and prop
up asset prices.  One of Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan ’s lasting
legacies was his penchant for rescuing markets when things got
dicey. A libertarian on paper, Greenspan was a monetary
socialist in practice. China conjured up its own version of the
“Greenspan put” in recent years, something that helped drive
property prices into the stratosphere.  Investors always take such implicit guarantees too far. The
International Monetary Fund last week said Shanghai’s property
market and some wealthier areas of Beijing may be starting to
overheat. So, national data mask the severity of bubbles in
China’s showcase cities -- ones on which foreign investors focus.  ‘Wen Put’  There are signs that the “Wen put” is undergoing a
makeover. Far more talk of reform has hit the airwaves of late,
and it’s about time. China needs more balanced growth, greener
industries and a narrower gap between rich and poor. We could
soon see less empty  investment  that paves the way for an
explosion of bad loans. More productive use of China’s savings
will leave the nation stronger in the decade ahead.  Obvious steps China could take include pushing its currency
higher. It would accelerate the process of moving away from
sweatshops toward services and better-paying high-value-added
industries. The yuan isn’t likely to strengthen significantly,
though. China sees a weak exchange rate as a vital shock
absorber as it tweaks its model. It’s all about balance.  It’s a point that’s missed in the furor over China’s curbs
on rare-earth exports. Sure, China is flexing its muscles in
rationing out the raw materials vital to everything from hybrid
cars to laptops to wind turbines to weapons to iPhones. It’s
also about creating jobs and domestic wealth. China has failed
in articulating the latter strategy to irked trading partners.  Bubbles Abound  Another perception that needs addressing is the state’s
readiness to make risky bets worth investors’ while. When you
chat with investors in Hong Kong and  Shanghai  and suggest
bubbles are growing, you often hear some variation of: “Yes,
but do you really think the government will stand by and let
stocks or real estate plunge? No way.”  There’s the rub. China needs to get out of asset markets,
publically and transparently. Yes, markets will gyrate,
investors will complain and politically connected executives
will work the phones. Yet this is a vital step China needs to
take to become a more stable economy in the long run.  Engineering a soft landing depends on it. Zero rates around
the world mean that Chinese rate hikes will only attract more
hot money as investors seek higher yields. The sobriety China’s
economy so badly needs must come from government policies.  Hypocrisy clouds this issue. Japan and Hong Kong aren’t
above pumping public money into asset markets when things get
rough. The U.S., once the shining icon of free-market ideology,
has lost its way. Nowadays, it’s hard to figure out where the
Fed’s balance sheet ends and the credit markets begin. We’re not
talking about other economies here, though. We’re talking about
investors’ troubling  faith  in China to protect them.  Wen has until 2012 to roll up his sleeves and see to it
that China doesn’t just grow faster, but better. Proving that
China isn’t some giant insurance company for investors is a
great way to start.  ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 William Pesek  in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  