-- Middle East, North Africa Economies Will Accelerate Next Year, IMF Says
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2010-10-24T14:57:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/middle-east-north-african-economies-will-accelerate-next-year-imf-says.html
Growth in Middle Eastern and North
African oil-exporting economies will accelerate next year as
crude production rises, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Gross domestic product in those countries will expand 5
percent in 2011 after growing 3.8 percent this year and 1.1
percent in 2009, the Washington-based lender said in its
regional Economic Outlook released today.  Those forecasts put oil exporters on course to grow faster
than most of the world’s major economies, which are still
struggling to overcome the worst global slump since World War
II. The IMF said on Oct. 6 that it expects global gross domestic
product to expand 4.2 percent in 2011.  “The recovery is taking hold in this region” as demand
for oil increases,  Masood Ahmed , IMF director for the Middle
East and Central Asia, said in an interview in Dubai.  The economies of the Gulf Cooperation Council, which
include Saudi Arabia, will be helped as crude oil production
climbs to 26 million barrels per day in 2011 from 25 million
barrels per day in 2010, the IMF said.  The combined current account surplus of the oil exporters
in the region will rise by about $80 billion on current oil
price expectations, the IMF said. Of this, close to $50 billion
is accounted for by GCC members.  Non-oil growth among crude exporters is likely to be “less
robust,” according to the report, picking up only by an
estimated 1 percentage point between 2009 and 2011.  Sluggish Credit  “Credit growth is still pretty low in most of the
economies of the Gulf,” Ahmed said. That makes stimulus
spending “both necessary and useful,” he said.  The IMF nevertheless raised its growth forecast for the
United Arab Emirates in 2010 to 2.4 percent from 1.3 percent, in
part because of a recovery in the non-oil economy in Dubai. In
2011, growth will accelerate to 3.2 percent.  “We have seen a recovery in activity related to trade,
related to logistics” in Dubai, Ahmed said. “Tourism is
holding up well.”  Real estate prices in Dubai suffered during the global
financial crisis as falling demand led to half of all planned
projects being canceled. A housing glut also forced prices
lower.  “There is a significant stock of real estate that has yet
to be completed and occupied” in Dubai, Ahmed said.  The economies of oil importers in the Middle East, North
Africa, along with Afghanistan and Pakistan, are expected to
grow 5 percent in 2010, compared with 4.6 percent in the
previous year, according to the report. For 2011, growth is
projected to ease to 4.4 percent.  The report recommended that oil importers in the region
focus on reaching growth levels fast enough to create enough
jobs, and diversify their exports to include markets in South
America and Asia, instead of mainly relying on Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Dubai via Cairo newsroom 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 