-- Milk an ‘Amazing Opportunity’ as Corn Rises: Chart of the Day
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2010-10-24T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/milk-an-amazing-buying-opportunity-as-corn-prices-jump-chart-of-the-day.html
Milk futures are an “amazing buying
opportunity” because they are the cheapest in 15 months
relative to the price of corn, the main ingredient used in feed
for dairy cows, according to Hackett Financial Advisers Inc.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the ratio of milk to corn
narrowed on Oct. 20 to 2.6, the lowest since June 2009. Corn
rose 46 percent in the past three months after the U.S.
government said domestic output would decline more than analysts
forecast. Milk fell 1.3 percent.  Milk will advance because U.S. dairy farmers will cull
herds, limiting output, rather than lose money on higher feed
costs, said  Shawn Hackett , president of Hackett Financial
Advisers in  Boynton Beach ,  Florida .  Soybean oil  rose 32 percent
since he predicted a rally in the commodity June 1.  “This is a market that has been left for road kill and yet
should be one of the greatest bullish price beneficiaries of the
current  bull market  in grains,” Hackett said. “Investors will
make a lot more money, with a lot less risk, owning milk at this
time than owning the grain markets.”  Using the spot price, reflecting the contract closest to
expiry, the ratio of milk to corn is at its smallest in 14
years, Hackett said. The 15-month calculation uses the most-
active contract by open interest, or contracts outstanding.  U.S. milk production dropped 5.6 percent in the past two
months after reaching 17 billion pounds (7.71 million metric
tons) in May, the highest since at least 2001, Department of
Agriculture data show. U.S. dairy farmers planned to cull herds
to bolster milk prices, the National Milk Producers Federation
said May 27. Output has been rising every month since February,
based on the seasonal year-over-year comparison.  (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 