-- Iran Must Not Meddle in Afghanistan, U.S. Says After Bag of Cash Reported
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2010-10-24T19:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/iran-must-not-meddle-in-afghanistan-u-s-says-after-bag-of-cash-reported.html
The U.S. said Iran shouldn’t
interfere with Afghanistan’s internal affairs following a report
that an Iranian official gave an aide of President  Hamid Karzai 
a bag filled with packets of euro bills.  “We understand that Iran and Afghanistan are neighbors and
will have a relationship,”  Philip J. Crowley , a State
Department spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement “But Iran
should not interfere with the internal affairs of the Afghan
government.”  The New York Times reported today that, in August, Iran’s
ambassador to Afghanistan, Feda Hussein Maliki, gave a plastic
bag filled with euros to Karzai’s chief of staff, Umar Daudzai,
on Karzai’s personal aircraft. The Times cited an Afghan
official who spoke to the newspaper on condition of anonymity.  The payment, part of a stream that totals millions of
dollars, was intended to promote Iran’s interests and to counter
U.S. and other western influence in Afghanistan, the Times said,
citing unidentified Afghan and Western officials in Kabul.  “It’s not totally surprising at all,” said  Isobel Coleman , a senior fellow at the  Council for Foreign Relations .
“The U.S. would be naive to think Iran is not trying to exert
itself in Afghanistan.”  Anthony Cordesman , a senior defense analyst with the  Center
for Strategic and International Studies , also said the payment
reported by the Times shouldn’t be a revelation for those with
experience in the area.  Competing for Influence  “The truth is, you’ve been involved in a prolonged
competition for influence in Afghanistan between the United
States, Pakistan, India, Iran and to a lesser extent China and
Russia since the start of this,” Cordesman said in a phone
interview today. “They should scarcely be surprised by cash
payments because they’re dealing with an economy where gray
payments are part of the system.”  Karzai and Daudzai declined to respond to written questions
from the Times about their relationship with Iran, the newspaper
said. The Iranian ambassador also declined to answer questions,
and his spokesman said the allegations were western media
gossip, the newspaper said.  Iran has been providing funding for the government, as well
as for its Taliban opponents, the Times reported, citing an
unidentified senior NATO officer. Cash for the Taliban is aimed
at undermining the U.S., not for ideological purposes, Coleman
said.  “Iran has no love for the Taliban and the Taliban has no
love for Iran,” Coleman said. “It’s not an ideological move
between the groups, but a purely cynical move to support
insurgent groups that tie down the United States.”  Sheltered Al-Qaeda  The militant Islamic Taliban controlled Afghanistan and
sheltered the al-Qaeda terrorist network before being ousted by
a U.S.-led invasion of the country following the Sept. 11, 2001,
attacks in the U.S.  The U.S. cut diplomatic ties with Iran after the seizure of
the American Embassy in Tehran, where 52 diplomats were held
hostage for 444 days. They were taken hostage during the 1979
Islamic Revolution that ousted the monarchy and brought Shiite
Muslim clerics to power.  Calls to the Afghan Embassy in Washington and Iran’s
delegation to the United Nations weren’t immediately returned. A
recording at the Iranian interest section at the Pakistani
Embassy in Washington said the office was closed and to call
back at a later time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net ;
 Phil Mattingly  in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  