-- Iraq's Allawi Bloc Says Oil, Gas Licenses are Illegal, may be Canceled
-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2010-10-24T16:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/iraq-s-allawi-bloc-says-oil-gas-licenses-are-illegal-may-be-canceled.html
The political bloc led by former
Iraqi Prime Minister  Ayad Allawi  said today that oil and
natural-gas development contracts awarded by the outgoing
government of  Nuri al-Maliki  are illegal and may be canceled.  Allawi’s bloc, which won the largest number of seats in
March elections, said it “strongly condemns the outgoing
government’s actions to offer license rounds with long-term
contracts and overstepping its constitutional mandates.”  The actions are also “considered illegal in light of the
current constitutional and political vacuum engulfing the
country, which exposes the oil ministry and all parties
concerned to legal questioning and which may also lead to the
cancellation of these contracts,” the bloc called Al-Iraqiyah
said in an e-mailed statement.  The licenses are illegal, it said, because they were signed
“with no reference to current laws such as Law 97 of 1967,
which requires the consent of the Iraqi Parliament in the
absence of a Federal Oil and Gas Law.”  Parliamentary elections in Iraq on March 7 produced no
clear winner, and political parties, including the rival blocs
led by Allawi and Maliki, have been struggling since then to
form a government. Maliki’s outgoing government has said
repeatedly that signed hydrocarbon contracts would not be
cancelled.  Natural-Gas Contracts  Kuwait Energy Co., Turkiye Petrolleri AO and  KazMunaiGaz
National Co.  of Kazakhstan secured rights to develop three Iraqi
natural-gas fields, at an auction on Oct. 20. The Akkas,
Mansouriya and Siba gas fields together hold 11 trillion cubic
feet of fuel.  Last week’s gas licensing round was the third for
hydrocarbon development contracts since the U.S.-led invasion
that toppled President  Saddam Hussein  in 2003. Iraq won pledges
from oil producers including  Exxon Mobil Corp.  and OAO Lukoil to
boost the country’s total crude output to 12 million barrels a
day after two licensing rounds last year.  Iraq relies on oil for most of its income and is seeking
foreign investors in other parts of the economy after years of
conflict and sanctions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nayla Razzouk  in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net  