-- Israel Army Chief of Staff Defends Soldiers' Actions in Gaza Flotilla Raid
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2010-10-24T10:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/israel-army-chief-of-staff-defends-soldiers-actions-in-gaza-flotilla-raid.html
Lieutenant-General  Gabi Ashkenazi ,
Israel’s military chief of staff, said soldiers acted
“proportionately” when they killed nine Turkish activists
aboard a ship trying to bring aid to the Gaza Strip.  “We encountered a determined action against our
soldiers,” Ashkenazi said, testifying today for the second time
before an Israeli commission of inquiry. “The second soldier
who descended to the boat was shot in the stomach by pistol
fire.”  Ashkenazi, who previously testified Aug. 11, told the panel
led by former Supreme Court Justice Jacob Turkel that the
soldiers were stabbed, shot and choked with steel cords after
sliding down ropes onto the ship from a hovering helicopter.  Israel established the commission after the May 31 raid on
the Turkish vessel Mavi Marmara generated international
criticism and led Turkey, once its closest ally in the region,
to suspend diplomatic and security cooperation. Israel also
agreed to take part in a United Nations probe of the incident in
which five other ships in the flotilla also tried to breach its
naval blockade of the Gaza Strip.  Ashkenazi, sitting in full-dress uniform at a small table
and facing the panel of four Israelis and two international
observers, said previously that he took “full responsibility”
for the raid.  Turkel said today he hoped that the panel would be allowed
to directly interview one of the commanders who immediately
presided over the raid.  ‘Word-for-Word’  Ashkenazi has given to the committee what he said was
“word-for-word” testimony from the commandos who participated
in the raid. He has not allowed any to speak directly to the
panel.  The surviving Turkish activists have said the Israeli
soldiers instigated the violence and acted with disproportionate
force. Turkish forensic scientists found that the nine victims
had been hit by a total of at least 31 bullets, Istanbul-based
Yeni Safak newspaper reported on June 26, citing the forensic
report. It said one of the activists was hit by five bullets
including at least one shot to the head fired from close range.
One of those killed also held U.S. citizenship.  While the soldiers carried paint-guns and stun guns that
were considered enough to control light resistance, according to
Ashkenazi, he said each was also armed with a 9-milimeter pistol
or Uzi submachine gun.  ‘Insufficient Force’  The army chief said in August that the major mistake in the
operation was not using sufficient force to neutralize the
activists before the commandos boarded the ship from
helicopters.  Today he said that there were at least 100 activists
equipped with diving gear, bullet-proof vests, and other
equipment who were organized to oppose the soldiers who came on
board.  The Israeli panel is looking at the interplay of political
and military decision-making behind the raid. An Israeli
military inquiry concluded July 12 that faulty planning and
intelligence failures contributed to the violence.  Israel and Egypt imposed a blockade of Gaza after the
Islamic Hamas movement ousted forces loyal to Palestinian
Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas ’s Fatah group and seized
control of the territory in 2007. Hamas, which won Palestinian
parliamentary elections the previous year, is considered a
terrorist organization by the U.S., the European Union and
Israel.  Palestinians, backed by the UN and human-rights groups,
said restrictions on food imports and construction materials
created a humanitarian crisis.  The Israeli government loosened the blockade in June for
shipments by road with the aim of allowing food in and keeping
weapons and items with a possible military use out of the
territory.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Peter
Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 Phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 