-- Italy Beats Peripheral Peers With Cheapest Debt Since August: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2010-10-24T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/italy-beats-peers-with-cheapest-debt-since-august-euro-credit.html
Italy may have an easier time
selling bonds than its peers this week as optimism about the
nation’s budget restraint drives borrowing costs to the lowest
level since August.  The Treasury will auction about 11 billion euros ($15.3
billion) of bonds, split between a zero-coupon sale tomorrow,
inflation-linked debt on Oct. 27 and two bonds repayable in 2013
and 2021 the next day. The total amount represents more than
half the bonds on sale in Europe this week.  The  yield premium  investors demand to hold Italy’s 10-year
debt over similar German bunds narrowed 25 basis points this
month to a low of 133.4, the least since Aug. 11. That’s the
lowest among Europe’s so-called peripherals, including Greece,
Portugal and Spain, as investors reward Italy for doing a better
job at controlling the budget deficit.  “There’re no fundamental issues to be worried about with
Italy in the near term,” said  Charles Diebel , head of market
strategy at Lloyds Banking Group Plc in London. “It might have
a high level of debt, but its fiscal position is better than
other peripheral countries. Its debt maturity profile is benign
and the economic performance has improved.”  Greece’s near default in April led to a surge in  borrowing
costs  among the region’s high-deficit nations that prompted
governments across Europe to impose austerity measures. Italy’s
deficit of 5.3 percent of gross domestic product last year was
less than half that of Greece and Spain. The government was able
to avoid the most painful budget measures, including the wage
cuts and tax increases adopted by others, and also maintain the
lowest deficit projections for next year of the four countries.  Three-Year Offering  Demand at the bond auctions will be underpinned this week
by more than 30 billion euros of redemptions and coupon payments
that will leave banks with funds to reinvest. Italy also may
attract investors with a new three-year bond.  “The amount of Italian debt to be sold this week is above
average,” said  Luca Cazzulani , a senior fixed-income strategist
at UniCredit SpA in Milan. “Having said that, a big chunk will
come from a new three-year benchmark, which is the area where
demand is strong.”  Domestic buying may help prevent the flood of paper from
weighing on Italian bond prices in the secondary markets. At a
sale of bonds due 2017 on Oct. 20, Italian investors  bought  76
percent of the debt. In Portugal, only about 17 percent of debt
was held locally, the government’s debt agency said in April.  Italy plans tomorrow to sell 9 billion euros of six-month
bills, which represents more than a third of the bills to be
sold this week in the euro region by France, Spain and Germany.
The bond sales come as governments seek to pass budget plans
that convince investors they will make good on pledges to trim
budget deficits and cut spending, Cazzulani said.  ‘Event Risks’  “The timing of the sale might work in Italy’s favor as
well,” Cazzulani said. “There are event risks elsewhere in the
peripheral area. We don’t know if the Portuguese budget will be
accepted. There’s renewed concern about Ireland. That may help
support demand for Italian paper. I don’t think the market will
struggle to absorb the supply.”  Portugal, the only other peripheral to come to market this
week, saw  its spread  with Germany widen 26 basis points between
Oct. 18 and Oct. 22 after Prime Minister  Jose Socrates ’s
government postponed the vote on its budget plan until Nov. 3 as
it seeks to secure the support of the Social Democrats, the
biggest opposition party.  Comparing Belgium  Belgium, with Europe’s third-biggest debt after Italy and
Greece, has increasingly been compared with the peripherals amid
growing political instability. The country sells three-, five-
and 10-year bonds today. Its yield premium with Germany climbed
20 basis points in the past three months, the most in the euro
region after Portugal, as June elections proved inconclusive,
leaving the country with a caretaker government. The latest
attempt to form a new administration collapsed last week.  Belgium has a higher credit rating than Italy, with its
bonds ranked AA+ by Standard & Poor’s three notches above
Italy’s A+, meaning the Italians probably will offer higher
returns than Belgium at the auctions. Italy’s 10-year bonds
yield 50 basis points more than comparable Belgian debt.  In Italy, Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  has managed to
quell divisions with a key ally in his coalition, leaving little
risk to passage of a budget that aims to trim the deficit to 3.9
percent of GDP next year, about a third the shortfall forecast
for Ireland and less than half estimates for Spain and Portugal.  Unlike Spain and Ireland, Italy’s economy will grow this
year, growing 1 percent, the International Monetary Fund
estimated on Oct. 6. Italy will expand at the same pace next
year, according to the IMF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  