-- Kan Invokes Ryoma as 19th Century Samurai Seen as Economic Boon
-- B y   A d a m   L e
-- 2010-10-24T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/kan-invoking-ryoma-as-19th-century-samurai-seen-lifting-japan-economy-anew.html
From Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  to
 Sapporo Beer , lawmakers and companies in Japan are invoking the
image and legacy of Ryoma Sakamoto, the 19th century samurai who
helped overhaul the nation’s government and economy.  Kan mentioned Ryoma in a speech on June 8, the day he
became premier, drawing comparisons between his new cabinet and
the militia groups of the samurai era. Facing an economy saddled
with falling consumer prices, rising debt and an aging
population, Kan pledged to break Japan’s “stasis.”  “Ryoma has been exploited over and over again in society,
for Japan’s militarism, and his ghost still remains,” said
Masaaki Noda, a professor at  Kwansei Gakuin University . “Japan
is suffering from many problems, such as an aging society. We
need to seriously think about how to fix the current problems.”  Visitors to Ryoma’s birthplace of  Kochi  prefecture, on the
southern island of Shikoku, rose 71 percent to 2.4 million in
the first half of this year from a year earlier after national
broadcaster NHK started airing its “Ryoma Den” drama in
January. Interest in the samurai has added 40.9 billion yen
($502 million) to Kochi’s economy, or about 1.8 percent of the
surrounding region’s gross regional product, the  Bank of Japan 
said in June.  Sapporo Holdings Ltd., Japan’s fourth-biggest brewer, last
month started nationwide sales of a beer called “ Oi! Ryoma ,”
and  Daihatsu Motor Co.  has used an actor playing Ryoma in a
commercial for its Tanto Exe car.  China Relations  The Ryoma craze comes as Kan faces strained relations with
China over rival claims to uninhabited islands in the East China
Sea, a dispute reignited by a Sept. 7 collision between a
Chinese trawler and two Japanese Coast Guard boats. Japanese
officials said China curbed exports of rare earth metals
necessary for Japan’s automobile and high-tech industries over
the incident.  Born the son of a samurai in 1835, Ryoma’s efforts to
modernize Japan included his Eight-Point Program, which laid out
plans to transform the country into a constitutional monarchy,
institute a foreign policy, and regulate trade.  Ryoma’s program formed the basis for the Charter Oath, the
framework for Japan’s first constitution in the Meiji
Restoration, according to the  Sakamoto Ryoma Memorial Museum 
website.  “Almost the entire Restoration program is contained within
this program of Sakamoto’s,” writes  Marius B. Jansen , author of
“Sakamoto Ryoma and the Meiji Restoration.” “Its language
would be echoed in the Charter Oath of 1868.”  Before he was assassinated at age 33, Ryoma established
Japan’s first trading company, which laid the groundwork for the
creation of the  Mitsubishi Group , and is regarded as the father
of the imperial navy.  He is also revered for brokering an alliance between the
two powerful clans of Satsuma, on the southern island of Kyushu,
and Kan’s home region of Choshu, present day Yamaguchi
prefecture. The two regions were enemies at the time.  ‘Fearless Courage’  “I would be very pleased if you called this administration
the Kiheitai cabinet,” Kan  said  on June 8, referring to the
volunteer militia from his home region which helped overthrow
the government and led to Japan’s modernization.  “I want the Diet members of my party, the DPJ, who
themselves hail from various sectors of society, to have a
spirit like that of the Kiheitai and take on issues with
fearless courage,” he said.  Politicians from different parties have jumped on the Ryoma
bandwagon.  Your Party  head  Yoshimi Watanabe , in a February
speech in Japan’s Lower House, said “Those who want to restore
Japan to prosperity, let’s do so with Your Party as Ryoma.”  Former Liberal Democratic Party Secretary General  Hidenao Nakagawa ’s  website  displays the phrase “Let’s all play the role
of Ryoma,” a reference to the samurai’s ability to unite
disparate factions.  Exploited  “Some people think Ryoma is relevant, so that’s why the
television drama is popular,” said Kwansei Gakuin University’s
Noda. Still, conjuring Ryoma’s image because he represents youth
and vigor isn’t enough to fix Japan’s problems, he said.  That hasn’t stopped companies from benefiting from the
samurai. Sapporo’s beer “was extremely well received,” said
 Katsuhito Ogawa , a company spokesman. Sapporo sold all 480,000
cans of a limited edition of its black label beer featuring a
cartoon depiction of Ryoma when it went on sale in western Japan,
he said. The company hopes to sell 1.2 million cans of the beer
this fall throughout Japan.  Masayoshi Son , president of  Softbank Corp.  and Japan’s
fourth richest man, has said he strives to emulate Ryoma in his
business.  Ryoma Inspirations  “He staked his life on the dawning of Japan’s tomorrow,”
Softbank’s Son  wrote  on his Twitter page last December. “This
is such an admirable thing to do. Through my own enterprise, I
strive to reach closer to Ryoma-san’s mindset.”  It’s not the first time Ryoma has jumped in popularity.
He’s inspired at least eight TV series, six novels, 11 comics
and eight films, and an  asteroid  discovered in 1982 was named
after him.  The  Japan Mint  began a lottery in March after 600,000 coin
collectors placed orders for the 100,000 commemorative coins
released to celebrate the 175th anniversary of Ryoma’s birth.  At the Ryoma Memorial Museum in Kochi, about 190,000 people
visited between April and August, almost a fourfold increase on
the 50,000 visitors during the same period last year, said
Kenshiro Mori, curator of the museum.  Top Five  Daily sales at the Kochi museum’s gift shop have risen to
between 300,000 yen and 400,000 yen for the first six months,
quadruple last year’s average, Mori said. “We’ve had to
increase our staff to 22 from 16,” he said.  “ Ryoma Den ,” NHK’s Sunday weekly serial, was the most
watched TV series for the first eleven weeks it aired, according
to  Video Research Ltd. , a Tokyo-based ratings company. It’s been
among the top five shows this year, and had an average viewer
rating of 19 percent, meaning one in five households watched the
historical drama, according to Video Research, which surveyed
households in Tokyo and six surrounding prefectures.  “Ryoma said that if Japan didn’t unify as one country, it
couldn’t respond to the West,” said Mori, the curator. “There
are parallels between the confusion of that period and what’s
happening today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Le  in Osaka at 
 ale14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Drew Gibson in Osaka at 
 dgibson2@bloomberg.net . 