-- Swiss Stocks Gain; Xstrata, Luxury-Goods Makers Lead Increase
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-10-25T16:05:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/nestle-novartis-ubs-may-move-switzerland-s-equity-preview.html
Swiss stocks increased, with the
 Swiss Market Index  extending a three-week gain, after Group of
20 finance chiefs pledged to avoid “competitive devaluation.”  Swatch Group AG advanced 1.6 percent and Cie. Financiere
Richemont SA surged 2.5 percent after LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA said it would increase its stake in rival Hermes
International SCA to 17 percent. Xstrata Plc rose 3.6 percent as
base metals advanced in London and the dollar weakened. Swiss
Reinsurance Co. lost 1.7 percent after BofA Merrill Lynch Global
Research downgraded the shares.  The  Swiss Market Index  added 0.6 percent to 6,513.63 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Zurich, trimming its decline from this year’s
high on April 15 to 6.5 percent. The broader  Swiss Performance
Index  also rose 0.6 percent today.  “In terms of the meeting, there was perhaps firmer
rhetoric than expected, but whether it can be put into practice
is clearly another matter and one for the future,”  Jim Reid ,
head of fundamental strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in London,
wrote in a note to investors. “The desire seems to be to have
the IMF have a greater role in policing these goals. The market
is likely pleased that the summit passed without tensions
flaring.”  G-20 finance ministers and central bankers ended talks in
South Korea on Oct. 23 saying that they will refrain from
“competitive devaluation” and allow markets to set foreign-
exchange rates. The dollar weakened as the meetings omitted any
U.S. pledge to refrain from further so-called quantitative
easing.  Swatch, Richemont  Swatch , the maker of Omega and Breguet watches, gained 1.6
percent to 383.30 Swiss francs.  Richemont , Switzerland’s largest
jewelry maker, increased 2.5 percent to 49.61 francs. Hermes
International SCA shares surged in Paris after LVMH announced it
owns 14 percent of the company, with the option to increase the
stake to 17 percent.  Xstrata  climbed 3.6 percent to 20.25 francs as a gauge for
basic-resources producers gained as much as 2.6 percent. Copper
rose to the highest price in 27 months in New York and London as
the dollar weakened amid speculation that the Federal Reserve
will announce further bond purchases next week.  UBS AG  increased 1.2 percent to 17.64 francs. Switzerland’s
biggest bank will probably report a fourth straight quarterly
profit tomorrow and the lowest wealth management redemptions
since 2008.  The bank will post third-quarter net income of 1.16 billion
francs ($1.2 billion), compared with a loss of 564 million
francs a year earlier, according to the median estimate of 16
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. Net withdrawals by wealthy
clients may have slowed to 2.6 billion francs from 26.6 billion
francs, the survey found.  Swiss Re  dropped 1.7 percent to 47.59 francs. BofA Merrill
Lynch downgraded the world’s second-largest reinsurer to
“underperform” from “neutral.”  The brokerage said in a note that “Swiss Re is
particularly hurt by low interest rates and that it will be some
time before levers can act to restore the return-on-earnings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 