-- One Third of Britons See House Prices Falling, Rightmove Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-10-24T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/one-third-of-britons-see-house-prices-falling-rightmove-says.html
The number of Britons who expect
house prices to fall outnumbered those forecasting an increase
for the first time since 2009 in the third quarter as concerns
about the economy mounted, Rightmove Plc said.  Some 32 percent of the 25,584 people surveyed said prices
will be lower in a year, the operator of Britain’s biggest
property  website  said in a report published in London today.
Thirty six percent forecast home values would be “about the
same,” while 27 percent said they would be higher. A year
earlier, 56 percent predicted higher prices.  U.K.  economic growth  probably slowed in the third quarter
to a third of the pace in the previous three months of the year,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists. Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne  last week detailed spending cuts
to shrink the budget  deficit , which may lead to the loss of half
a million public-sector jobs.  “It is clear from this survey that the success or failure
of the cuts in the wider economy will have a big impact on the
property market,”  Miles Shipside , commercial director of
Rightmove. “It will be interesting to see whether the rise of
the ‘price pessimists’ will continue given the new economic
landscape.”  The economy expanded 0.4 percent in three months through
September, down from 1.2 percent growth in the second quarter,
according to the median forecast in the  survey  of 35 economists.
The Office for National Statistics will publish the data at 9:30
a.m. on Oct. 26.  Mixed Picture  Recent house-price data have been mixed. While a measure by
Halifax, a division of Lloyds Banking Group Plc, showed a 3.6
percent drop in September, Rightmove said last week that home
sellers raised asking prices 3.1 percent in October.  Bank of England policy maker  Andrew Sentance  said the
property market was showing signs of “volatility,” rather than
evidence of a renewed slump. The central bank this month left
its  benchmark interest rate  and its asset-purchase plan on hold
at a meeting where its nine-member policy committee split three
ways on the need for economic stimulus.  Almost half of the respondents who expect prices to decline
cited a lack of confidence in the economy or a “squeeze” on
household incomes, the Rightmove report showed. About one in 10
respondents overall forecast that prices will fall more than 10
percent in the next 12 months.  Rightmove carried out the survey online between Oct. 4 and
Oct. 18. It began the price survey in January 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  