-- Persian Gulf Stock Exchanges Struggle to Revive Trading Volumes
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-10-24T20:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/persian-gulf-stock-exchanges-struggle-to-revive-trading-volumes.html
Persian  Gulf stock exchanges  are
struggling to revive trading volumes even after the Dubai World
debt accord spurred bond issuances and share sales.  The volume of shares traded in  Dubai ,  Abu Dhabi,   Oman  and
 Qatar  is less than half what it was a year ago. It’s down 44
percent in  Saudi Arabia  and 28 percent in  Kuwait .  "There are still a lot of issues that need to be clarified
as there’s a huge" amount of debt that needs to be repaid in the
coming period,  Shehzad Janab , head of asset management at  Daman
Investments PSC,  said in an interview Oct. 21. "The improved
sentiment has helped the fixed-income market, but equity markets
are struggling."  Volumes plummeted after the world’s worst recession since
the Great Depression and a collapse in property values in Dubai,
the Gulf’s financial bellwether. The  Dubai Financial Market  has
tumbled 80 percent to 1,746.98 from its peak in 2005. Dubai
racked up $109.3 billion of debt to transform the emirate into a
tourism, trade and financial-services hub, according to
International Monetary Fund estimates.  The heads of the 16 Arab stock exchanges are meeting in
Beirut, Lebanon, today to discuss the performance of the bourses
since the economic crisis began.  Dubai World Effect  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index  has jumped 11 percent so far in
the second half. The index of the biggest companies in the six
countries that make up the Gulf Cooperation Council lost two
percent in the first half of the year after Dubai World, one of
the emirate’s three main state-controlled holding companies,
said in November it needs to restructure $24.9 billion in debt.
The company said last month it obtained approval from creditors
to change the terms on the debt.  As equity markets rebounded, companies in the region joined
a surge in emerging market share sales to raise funds. Aluminium
Bahrain BSC, Oman’s Nawras and Axiom Telecom LLC in Dubai plan
to sell shares.  Mazaya Qatar Real Estate Development  listed its
shares this month.  Progress on Dubai World’s restructuring as well as a
rebound in the services sector will prompt the International
Monetary Fund to raise its economic forecast for the U.A.E. and
Dubai, Middle East director  Masood Ahmed  said on Sept. 16. The
fund currently predicts 1.3 percent growth for the U.A.E.
economy for this year and a 0.4 contraction for Dubai.  Worst is Over  "We believe the worst is behind us; volume will slowly
return to the market as more and more structural changes are
rolled out to regain the trust of investors," said  Saad al- Chalabi , an institutional trader at Al Ramz Securities in Abu
Dhabi. "As the economy recovers from that great recession, we
will find the retail investors returning to the market. As we go
up, volumes will go up."  The pace of borrowing is also picking up. Dubai’s
government raised $1.25 billion in a bond sale Sept. 29, getting
orders of about $5 billion.  Qatar Telecom QSC,  Dubai Electricity
& Water, HSBC Bank Middle East Ltd. and Arab Petroleum
Investments Corp. issued $5.8 billion in debt this quarter.
 National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC,   Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank PJSC, 
Saudi Arabian Oil Co. and  Doha Bank QSC  are among those mulling
bond sales.  "Fixed-income markets are far more attractive to foreign
investors as the new bonds are coming with explicit guarantees,"
Daman’s Janab said. "Equity markets are trading at relatively
depressed valuations. Banks are still not lending."  Lagging Behind  Gulf equity markets are lagging behind other emerging
markets, with the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  soaring 21 percent
since June 30. The  32 companies in Dubai’s benchmark index  are
valued at 6.97 times estimated earnings, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That compares with 13.64 times for the  MSCI
World Index  and 12.97 times for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index .  Some of Dubai’s state-owned companies have struggled to
repay the debt after the collapse of credit markets prevented
them from raising new loans.  Dubai Holding LLC, another holding company owned by the
emirate’s ruler  Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum , delayed
repayment on part of $1.8 billion in loans due in September as
state-owned companies seek to restructure liabilities.  Tamweel 
and rival  Amlak Finance PJSC , once the United Arab Emirates’ two
biggest mortgage companies, suspended lending after the seizure
of global credit markets shut their access to funding.  "Risk tolerance hasn’t picked up as much as we’d like it
to, investors are not buying into the recovery story yet," said
 Paul Cooper , managing director at Sarasin-Alpen & Partners Ltd.
in Dubai, which oversees more than $500 million in the Middle
East. "The lower the volumes, the more brokers are struggling to
survive and this further reduces liquidity."  At least 12 brokerages in the U.A.E. submitted requests to
the Securities and Commodities Authority to suspend operations
this year as volumes tumbled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler in Dubai at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  