-- Pound Set for Pain as Cuts Push King to Print Money
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-10-25T15:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/pound-set-for-pain-as-cameron-cuts-send-king-to-printing-press.html
The only major currency rivaling the
dollar’s decline since July is the pound, and foreign-exchange
strategists say the worst is yet to come for Britain’s legal
tender.  Sterling has depreciated 5.1 percent against a basket of
the nine other most-traded currencies, including last week’s
1.29 percent drop. Strategists are the most pessimistic on the
pound versus the euro since the ruling Conservative-Liberal
Democrat coalition came to power in May, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The decline suggests investors are losing confidence in
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s ability to restore growth while
promising the deepest spending reductions in British history to
shrink the biggest deficit in the Group of 20. His 81 billion
pounds ($128 billion) of cuts through 2015 will force Bank of  England  Governor  Mervyn King  to print cash through so-called
quantitative easing to prevent a new recession, overwhelming
demand for sterling, according to UBS AG.  “There’s definitely more weakness to come,” said Hans- Guenter Redeker, global head of currency strategy in London at
BNP Paribas SA. “The fiscal consolidation is going to hit the
economy at a time when it’s slowing. Under these conditions, you
need to have loose monetary conditions and that weakens the
exchange rate.”  Redeker predicts sterling will drop to $1.40 by June. The
currency traded at $1.5726 as of 3:53 p.m. in London.  Sell the Pound  UBS, the second-biggest currency trader after Deutsche Bank
AG, recommended on Oct. 21 its clients sell the pound,
especially against the Swiss franc, Australian dollar and
Norwegian krone. Morgan Stanley strategists said it may weaken
to 93 pence per euro from 88.96 pence today should the recovery
slow further or  Bank of England  policy makers signal more
credit-easing measures.  This week’s report on third-quarter gross domestic product
“will be key in the Bank of England’s decision of whether to
undertake QE or not in November,” London-based Morgan Stanley
strategists Tim Davis and Calvin Tse wrote in an Oct. 21 report.  Britain’s expansion slowed to 0.4 percent in the period,
from 1.2 percent in the three months ended June 30, according to
the median estimate of 35 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. GDP
will increase 1.6 percent this year and 1.9 percent in 2011,
another survey shows.  Germany  will grow 3.3 percent in 2010 and
2 percent next year, while U.S. GDP will expand 2.7 percent and
2.5 percent, separate surveys show.  Counting on Exports  A depreciating pound may help U.K. exports at a time when
countries from  China  to the U.S. and Japan are seeking to boost
international sales through weaker exchange rates.  At their meetings this past weekend, G-20 finance chiefs
sought to calm trade frictions by pledging to avoid weakening
their currencies to boost exports and let markets increasingly
set foreign exchange values. The group agreed to “move towards
more market determined exchange rate systems that reflect
underlying economic fundamentals and refrain from competitive
devaluation of currencies,” finance ministers and central
bankers said after talks in  Gyeongju ,  South Korea .  The Centre for Economics and Business Research said Oct. 17
the Bank of England will expand its quantitative easing asset-
purchase plan by 100 billion pounds, adding to the 200 billion
pounds policy makers bought starting in March 2009. King
signaled Oct. 19 he may be open to more buying, saying in a
speech in Dudley, England, that some measures of U.K. inflation
are “extremely subdued.”  Diverging Policies  The pound’s slide since July 30 compares with a drop of 5.4
percent for the dollar, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes. Since climbing to $1.6107 on Oct. 15,
the strongest level versus the greenback since Jan. 29, sterling
has dropped 2.3 percent, and weakened about 2.1 percent against
the 16-nation euro.  While the Bank of England weighs whether to add stimulus,
the Frankfurt-based  European Central Bank  is exiting emergency
measures that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in September 2008, which sparked the worst global financial
crisis since World War II.  The ECB is allowing supports to expire, Executive Board
member Juergen Stark told the Die Welt newspaper on Oct. 20.
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said that day governments must
find an “exit strategy” from emergency spending.  Swelling Deficit  Efforts by Cameron, 44, and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , 39, to reduce the 156 billion-pound deficit
initially helped the pound by reassuring investors the risk of
Britain losing its AAA credit rating was receding at a time when
the euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis brought  Greece  to the
brink of default. The pound rose 6.49 percent between March 10
and Aug. 11, based on Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  The U.K.’s spending cuts are “insane” and the pound will
slump to below $1.40 as early as this year, John Taylor, chief
executive officer of FX Concepts Inc., told the Telegraph
newspaper.  The cuts are aimed at narrowing the deficit to 2.1 percent
of GDP in the 2014-15 fiscal year from the government forecast
of 10.1 percent this year. Debt interest costs would fall by
more than 5 billion pounds by 2015.  ‘Raising Rates’  “The U.K.’s fiscal policy is going to be tighter than
anyone else’s, and therefore there’s much less reason to expect
any tightening of monetary policy even if there is some sort of
global recovery,” said Adrian Schmidt, London-based foreign-
exchange strategist at Lloyds Banking Group Plc in  London .
Schmidt said the pound may weaken to 95 pence per euro this
year. “The ECB will be raising rates before the BOE,” he said.  Since raising their fourth-quarter predictions for the
pound to as strong as 80 pence per euro in July, a level not
seen since November 2008, analysts now see the currency trading
at 86 pence by year-end, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey. In the past year, the median fourth-quarter
estimate for sterling versus the dollar has fallen more than all
but four of 60 pairs tracked by Bloomberg.    Fitch Ratings  said Oct. 20 the budget cuts were consistent
with the U.K.’s top AAA credit rating. With the inflation rate
above the government’s 3 percent upper limit since March, bulls
say the Bank of England may avoid more quantitative easing.  ‘Like the Pound’  “We like the pound relative to the dollar,” said Monica Fan, London-based senior currency strategist at  State Street
Global Advisors , which oversees $83 billion. “King’s recent
statement, which the market took as an endorsement of another
round of QE, took a bit of the shine off, but the pound remains
undervalued against the dollar and the government’s fiscal
consolidation will provide support.”  The Bank of England risks stoking inflation with little
benefit to growth should it expand bond purchases, former policy
maker  Kate Barker  said on Oct. 18 in London.  Andrew Sentance ,
another central banker, has said since June that the central
bank should raise  interest rates  to tame inflation.  The 10-year breakeven rate, a measure of inflation
expectations, reached 2.856 percentage points last week, the
highest level since July 5. The rate increased from 2.476
percentage points on Aug. 31, the least this year.  Policy makers may favor a weaker pound to keep Britain’s
exports competitive, said Robin Marshall, a director of fixed
income at Smith & Williamson Investment Management in London,
which oversees about $20 billion.  ‘Weak Currency’  “It’s helpful for exports to have a weak currency,” he
said. “You could argue that in this environment of competitive
devaluations there’s something to be said for getting your
retaliation in first.”  History suggests sterling’s losses will be sustained while
Osborne implements cuts that are bigger than those announced by
Geoffrey Howe when he was Margaret Thatcher’s chancellor in
1981, according to UBS. The pound lost 20 percent against the
dollar that year and weakened the following three years.  “The main parallels between now and the early 1980s are
that fiscal policy is clearly being tightened, the economy is
weak, so the Bank of England may have to respond,” said Mansoor Mohi-uddin, global head of currency strategy at UBS in  Singapore . “The  currency market  is beginning to focus on the
downsides of fiscal tightening.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  