-- Putin Ports Grab Hurts Bondholders as Novorossiysk Borrows: Russia Credit
-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y
-- 2010-10-25T10:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/putin-ports-grab-hurts-bondholders-as-novorossiysk-borrows-russia-credit.html
Russia’s push to extend state
control over oil shipments is hurting investors as the country’s
biggest port increases its debt fivefold to fund expansion.  OAO Novorossiysk Commercial Sea Port  bonds tumbled eight of
the past 10 days, sending yields to the highest level over
sovereign debt since May. The Black Sea terminal will request
shareholder consent to borrow $1.95 billion to help finance the
$2.15 billion purchase of  Primorsk  Port in the Baltic Sea,
Novorossiysk said in an Oct. 18 statement. Once the deal is
complete, OAO Transneft, the state-owned pipeline monopoly will
partner with Primorsk’s shareholder, Ziyavudin Magomedov, to buy
a 50.1 percent stake in Novorossiysk, the port operator said.  The transaction “raises worries about an opaque non-listed
state company taking over a privately owned and efficiently run
operation,” said  Chris Weafer , chief strategist in Moscow at
UralSib Financial Corp.  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s government cut the energy
shipments industry from its $59 billion asset sale program
announced last week, after Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  said
on Oct. 10 the state will keep control of industries linked to
national security. The price Novorossiysk is paying for
Primorsk, Russia’s largest oil terminal, is 25 percent above the
valuation for its global peers, VTB Capital said in a report
last week, citing enterprise value, or the sum of stock and debt
minus cash, relative to earnings.  Novorossiysk’s $300 million of bonds due in May 2012
dropped to a three-month low on Oct. 21, increasing the yield by
33 basis points, or 0.33 percentage point, since Oct. 12 to 4.93
percent, prices compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield is heading
toward the level of Dubai-based DP World bonds that mature five
years later in 2017, with the gap shrinking to 202 basis points
today from 358 basis points three months ago.  DP World  Borrowing for the acquisition will increase Novorossiysk’s
total debt to $2.5 billion from about $50 million now, resulting
in net  debt  after cash reserves of about  4 times  Ebitda,
according to Deutsche Bank AG. The multiple is about the same as
 China Merchants Holdings International Co. , which owns stakes in
ports that move a third of China’s cargo containers, and is
lower than  DP World ’s ratio of 5 times earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization, Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Bank data show.  The company faces potential credit rating downgrades
because of the additional debt, Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s
Investors Service said. Novorossiysk is rated Ba1 by Moody’s,
one level below investment grade, and the same as  DP World . S&P
assigns an equivalent rating of BB+ to Novorossiysk.  Two-Part Deal  “The acquisition could have a very substantial impact on
NCSP’s financial profile if it’s debt-financed,” S&P said in a
report on Sept. 17. “Our ratings could be lowered if NCSP’s
financial profile deteriorates significantly because of the
transaction.”  The acquisition is conditional on more than 50 percent of
Novorossiysk being sold to Transneft and Summa Capital, a
Moscow-based holding company controlled by oil and mining
businessman Magomedov, according to the company’s Sept. 15
statement. Magomedov owns 50 percent of Primorsk.  Putin said Novorossiysk will benefit from Transneft’s
takeover, in an answer to questions from investors at a
 conference  in Moscow on Oct. 5. The deal doesn’t imply
“nationalization or any other aggression” from the government,
said Putin. He said he had tried to talk  Novorossiysk ’s owners
out of selling their holding. The government owns a 20 percent
stake in Novorossiysk, which it intends to sell as early as next
year as part of its privatization program, according to First
Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov .  ‘Transformational’  The Primorsk purchase will be a “transformational
transaction” for Novorossiysk, making it one of the biggest
port operators in Europe, the company said an Oct. 18 statement.  Novorossiysk Chief Executive Officer  Igor Vilinov  declined
to comment on the effect the deal would have on the company’s
financial standing, during a conference call with analysts and
journalists on Sept. 29.  Mikhail Schur , investor-relations
manager in Moscow for Novorossiysk, declined to comment beyond
citing company statements. Transneft spokesman  Igor Dyomin  in
Moscow declined to comment.  The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 added 1
basis point today to 4.350 percent. The yield on the country’s
ruble notes due in August 2016 rose 1 basis point to 7.15
percent.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries fell 5 basis points to 206,
according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ indexes. The difference compares
with 148 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 186 for Brazil,
which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s, 176 for the
Philippines and 154 for Colombia.  Default Swaps  The so-called  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 55 basis
points below the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-
month high of 105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  The cost of protecting Russian state debt against non-
payment for five years using credit-default swaps fell 1 basis
point to 142, down from this year’s peak of 217, according to
prices from CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Credit-default swaps for Russia cost 6 basis points more
than contracts for Turkey, which is rated four levels lower at
Ba2. Russian swaps  cost  as much as 40 basis points less on April
20.  Downgrade Threat  While Novorossiysk may be downgraded one level at most,
bondholders will need to give consent for the transaction to go
ahead,  Cornel Bruhin , who helps manage $3.5 billion of emerging
market assets at Swiss private bank Clariden Leu AG.  The acquisition may be “even positive when you take the
consent into account,” Bruhin, who holds Novorossiysk bonds,
said in a telephone interview from Zurich Oct. 22. “Generally
in Russia you want to move with the government not against the
government. The government involvement via Transneft increases
the appeal rather than decreases it.”  Putin’s government has been increasing state influence in
the oil and gas industry, which accounts for about 25 percent of
the country’s gross domestic product, while reducing dependency
on neighboring countries for energy exports.  OAO Rosneft , chaired by Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin ,
became the country’s largest oil producer by purchasing the
production and refining assets of Yukos Oil Co. when it was
broken up and sold after  Mikhail Khodorkovsky ’s arrest in
October 2003. Royal Dutch Shell Group Plc was forced to sell
control of its $22 billion Sakhalin-2 venture in 2006 to state-
run OAO Gazprom after regulatory threats to shutter the project
on environmental grounds.  Export Routes  The Novorossiysk deal will give the government control of
more than 60 percent of seaborne crude and oil product exports,
according to Troika Dialog.  The world’s largest energy exporter is seeking to diversify
its export routes. Russia has about 80 percent of its oil
products going through ports in the Baltic countries, according
to Transport Minister  Igor Levitin .  The government is developing pipelines and ports to enable
deliveries of crude and oil product exports to bypass the
Baltics and Belarus. Transneft aims to complete construction of
a link bypassing Belarus to the Baltic Sea port of Ust Luga next
year, sooner than planned, Chief Executive Officer  Nikolai Tokarev  said last month.  The state’s increased role in the energy shipment industry
contrasts with steps to sell stakes in 900 companies including
OAO Rosneft, Russia’s largest oil producer, and the country’s
two largest banks. The announcement spurred the biggest bond
gains in three months for Moscow-based VTB Group, Russia’s
second biggest lender, based on its dollar notes due 2018.  ‘Excessive’ Price  Novorossiysk’s bond price fell the most in four months on
Oct. 19, the day after Primorsk’s valuation was announced.  The price “we don’t think is justifiable given that the
business is stable rather than growing,” said  Elena Sakhnova ,
an analyst at VTB Capital in Moscow.  The price for Primorsk is “excessive” and may be “value
dilutive” for Novorossiysk minority shareholders, said  George Buzhenitsa , a transport and metals and mining analyst at
Deutsche Bank in Moscow. “We expect markets to attribute a
higher risk premium to the combined entity in the future.”  Novorossiysk bonds are underperforming  Russian corporate
notes , losing 0.2 percent this month as prices for company debt
climbed by an average 1.5 percent, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. indexes. The yield on Novorossiysk’s 2012 dollar bonds was
259 basis points higher than similar-maturity notes from
Transneft on Oct. 21, the biggest gap since May 21.  ‘Fair Premium’  The “fair premium” is “no more than” 150 basis points,
 Sergey Goncharov , an analyst at Trust Investment Bank in Moscow
said by phone on Oct. 22. The spread was at 247 basis points on
Oct. 22 compared with as little as 149 on Sept. 22.  Novorossiysk’s borrowing to buy Primorsk would justify the
“perception of higher risk” associated with Russian assets and
“the very cheap discount” relative to emerging-market peers,
UralSib’s Weafer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 