-- Qantas Cheers, Winemakers Jeer After `Aussie' Reaches Parity
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-10-24T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/qantas-cheers-winemakers-jeer-as-aussie-reaches-parity-with-u-s-dollar.html
Qantas Airways Ltd.  may be among the
few Australian companies to celebrate after the nation’s
currency strengthened to parity with the U.S. dollar, making
planes and fuel cheaper while exporters’ profits drop.  Greater buying power for fuel and new aircraft is buoying
the Sydney-based carrier while the strength of the so-called
“Aussie” dollar makes  Foster’s Group Ltd. ’s wine exports more
expensive and cuts the repatriated value of overseas sales.  “It’s net positive for Qantas because we buy $3 billion
worth of fuel in U.S. dollars,” Chief Executive Officer  Alan Joyce  said last week. “We have $17 billion worth of aircraft on
order; when we convert them to Aussie dollars, that’s cheaper.”  Exporters including Foster’s, blood-products maker CSL Ltd.
and surfwear maker  Billabong International Ltd.  are among
companies that may be hurt after the Australian dollar reached
the highest since the end of exchange controls in 1983. Nomura
Holdings Inc. and Credit Suisse AG forecast the local currency
will trade at or above parity with the greenback through 2011
after reaching $1.0004 on Oct. 15 and trading at 97.66 U.S.
cents on Oct. 22.  “The Aussie dollar will dampen the Australian market,”
said  Nader Naeimi , a Sydney-based strategist at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which manages about $85 billion. “Any company
you want to invest in should have contingencies to deal with
something like this.”  ‘Stark Difference’  Melbourne-based CSL, the world’s second-biggest maker of
blood-derived medical treatments, gets about 85 percent of sales
from outside Australia and said this month profit may fall more
than previously forecast on the currency gain.  The Aussie posted  nine straight weeks  of gains against the
U.S. dollar through Oct. 15, the longest streak since May 2009
amid speculation the Reserve Bank of Australia will raise
interest rates in an economy that skirted the global recession
on stimulus measures and Chinese demand for iron ore, coal and
other natural resources.  “The value of the Australian dollar reflects the stark
difference in the strength of our economy relative to other
nations,” Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in e-mailed comments on Oct.
14.  The Australian currency has become a favorite for traders
because of the country’s relatively high interest rates. The
central bank has raised its benchmark borrowing rate to 4.5
percent from 3 percent over the past 12 months, as the Fed and
the European Central Bank kept theirs unchanged at all-time lows.
The Bank of Japan on Oct. 5 cut its rate to “virtually zero.”  Interest Rates  There is a 38 percent chance Reserve Bank of Australia
Governor  Glenn Stevens  will raise the 4.50 percent target
lending rate at the next policy meeting, according to an index
compiled by Credit Suisse Group AG based on swaps.  At Melbourne-based Foster’s, the world’s second-largest
winemaker, the currency is hastening moves to focus on pricier
labels as the company seeks wider profit margins to insulate it
against the Aussie’s gain.  “The currency adds a complexity to the market,”  David Dearie , head of Foster’s Australian wine unit, said Oct. 12.
“You’ve got bigger margins at higher price points, so there’s
more flexibility.”  Gains in the Aussie reduced the company’s earnings before
interest and tax by A$123 million ($120 million), or 10 percent,
in the fiscal year ended June. Each 1-cent gain in the
Australian currency against the U.S. dollar slices A$1.9 million
from earnings before interest and tax.  Spreading Risk  Pikes Wines , a closely held producer in the Clare Valley of
South Australia, about 1,350 kilometers (839 miles) west of
Sydney, is accelerating expansion into new markets outside the
U.S. to mitigate the impact.  The decision will make Canada its largest market this year,
overtaking the traditional top two, the U.S. and the U.K.  “We are spreading our export risk a lot more,” said Peter
Bentley, export manager at Pikes.  Westfield Group , the world’s largest mall owner by value,
gets more than half its revenue outside Australia through
shopping centers in the U.K., U.S. and New Zealand.  While Westfield, controlled by billionaire  Frank Lowy , may
see overseas earnings drop, some of that is offset by lower debt
payments because the Sydney-based company also has borrowings in
overseas currencies.  “While income from one market might change, this will be
offset by a reduction in U.S. dollar interest, for example,”
 Julia Clarke , a spokeswoman for the Sydney-based company, said
in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  