-- Rio Says Will Keep Talks Open to Resolve Australia's Mine Tax
-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 2010-10-24T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/rio-confident-australia-s-mine-tax-issue-will-be-resolved-albanese-says.html
Rio Tinto Group , the world’s third-
largest mining company, will continue talks to resolve the issue
of Australia’s mining tax after the government said it won’t
offset any future increase in royalties demanded by states.  “I just see continued engagement,” Rio’s Chief Executive
Officer  Tom Albanese  said on Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s
“Inside Business” program yesterday. “I am quite confident
that the government, that the transition committee, will work
through this, and a number of other points that will come along
the way before final implementation.”  BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s largest mining company, and
Rio are considering abandoning a mine tax accord reached with
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  in July, claiming the government is
seeking to renege on an undertaking to refund future increases
in state royalties, the Australian newspaper reported Oct. 20.  Resources Minister  Martin Ferguson  says increased state
royalties won’t be offset by cuts to the proposed 30 percent
levy on iron ore and coal. Australia is the world’s largest
shipper of the commodities.  Australia’s government and companies hold differing views
on the deal, Drew Clarke, secretary of the nation’s resources
department, said Oct. 20. The transition committee set up by the
government and chaired by former BHP Chairman  Don Argus  will
“interpret” the terms of the accord as it talks to mining
companies, Clarke said.  Signed Off  “There’ll be details to work through, but they’ll be in
the spirit of the agreement that had been signed off in July,”
Albanese said yesterday. The accord allowed him to approve more
than $6 billion in spending on Rio’s iron ore mines in the
Pilbara region of Western Australia, he said.  Rio has gained 26 percent in Sydney since the tax was
agreed on July 2 and BHP has risen 12 percent. That  compares 
with a 10 percent gain in Australia’s benchmark index.  Rio, the world’s second-largest iron ore producer, last
week approved a $3.1 billion  expansion  of its iron ore
operations. BHP, the third largest iron-ore producer, is working
on a near-doubling of output to 240 million tons by 2013. It’s
 spending  $4.8 billion on the fifth part of the so-called Rapid
Growth Projects that will add 50 million tons.  “We’ve got good faith that what we’ve signed is what will
be implemented,” BHP’s Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers 
told reporters in London on Oct. 21. “Those royalty agreements
cater for the continued investment and expansion of our
businesses.”  Project Funding  The process of completing the tax agreement has been
“extremely difficult” for mining companies and has threatened
access to project funding, the Association of Mining and
Exploration Companies Inc. said Oct. 16. It said it wants the
tax dropped.  Under the Australian constitution, the country’s states and
territories own mineral resources, the Association’s Chief
Executive Officer Simon Bennison said.  The tax may face a High Court challenge on the grounds that
it could be unconstitutional,  Peter Chilton , an investment
analyst at Constellation Capital Management Ltd., which owns
 shares  in BHP and Rio, said on Oct. 22.  The agreement is fundamentally flawed,  Colin Barnett , the
premier of Western Australia, said last week. The state is the
world’s largest export region for iron ore and the location of
BHP and Rio’s ore mines in Australia.  Constitutional Issues  “There are clearly at least two major constitutional
issues that cast it in doubt,” Barnett said in Perth. “It is
discriminatory, it is poorly structured, it is very expensive
administratively. If a company were to take on the High Court,
the state would probably intervene in that case and present a
state point of view. I suspect the Commonwealth will abandon
this proposal and go back to square one.”  Treasury was advised that capping compensation for state
royalties, limiting it to those that applied on May 2, could be
discriminatory, Australian Government Solicitor Ian Govey told a
Senate committee on Oct. 18.  A company mining a resource in one state would receive a
different tax refund than a company mining the same commodity in
another state, Govey said. Imposing different tax regimes on the
nation’s state governments is prohibited by  Australia’s
constitution.   BHP and Rio on Oct. 19 abandoned a proposed iron-ore joint
venture in the Pilbara region that would have saved them $10
billion. The two companies are pressing ahead with separate
plans to boost production after being forced to abandon the
venture because of opposition from regulators in Asia and Europe.  They are seeking to meet demand from steel mills in China,
where use of the alloy is forecast by Rio to double by 2020 from
2008 levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  