-- Sarkozy Doing `Dirty Work' Means No Scapegoat as Ratings Slump
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2010-10-25T14:23:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/sarkozy-doing-france-s-dirty-work-means-no-scapegoat-as-popularity-falls.html
When  Nicolas Sarkozy  was running for
president, he promised to be a new type of French leader: more
involved and less aloof.  Once elected in 2007, he set up a  Facebook page  that
details movies he’s seen and his comments on sporting events. He
created a “war room” within his office to push for export
contracts, even though the Trade Ministry is charged with that.  Now this hands-on style is backfiring. Sarkozy, 55, is
taking the brunt of voter discontent over France’s wave of
strikes and demonstrations against raising the retirement age,
the country’s 9.7 percent  jobless rate  and a law limiting taxes
for the wealthy.  “There is no prime minister or other minister who is out
there on the front line for him,” said Nicolas Tenzer, a former
member of France’s state planning board and author of a book
called “France: The Impossible Reform?” “Sarkozy crystallizes
all the passion and maybe the hatred on himself.”  Members of the Senate and the lower  National Assembly  meet
today to iron out differences in their versions of the pension
bill, which raises the minimum retirement age two years to 62
and the age for a full pension to 67.  Final parliamentary approval should be completed by Oct.
27, a day before unions hold their fifth national strike. Police
today dismantled all the barricades at France’s fuel depots and
workers at three of France’s 11 striking refineries voted to
return to work. About a quarter of service stations have run out
of fuel.  Cost of Strikes  The strikes are costing the French economy between 200
million euros and 400 million euros ($280 million and $560
million) a day and are hurting France’s image overseas, French
Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said today.  Sarkozy’s unpopularity -- almost seven in 10 respondents
disapproved of his performance in a poll last week -- is curbing
his agenda. In March, after his party suffered losses in
regional elections, Sarkozy was forced to scrap a pledged tax on
carbon emissions that would have raised 1.5 billion euros a
year. A promised “Marshall Plan” for France’s violence-plagued
suburbs also never materialized.  The president’s poll ratings are as much as 26 points below
those of his prime minister,  Francois Fillon . Sarkozy doesn’t
have the same buffers as predecessors  Francois Mitterrand  and
 Jacques Chirac , who fired unpopular prime ministers when times
got rough.  ‘Dirty Work’  “Traditionally in France, the prime minister did the dirty
work, and when he stunk too much the president threw him out,”
said David Bell, professor of French government and politics at
the  University of Leeds  in the U.K. “This time it’s different
because Sarkozy has put himself out in front of the
government.”  Sarkozy has announced all his government’s main policies
himself, from the pension changes to a crackdown on illegal Roma
camps. He  travels  weekly to provincial towns and lays out new
policies dealing with education, agriculture or industry. On
Sept. 24, he went to a work site near Paris to announce a new
Metro line to serve a university campus under construction.  Sixty-nine percent of those questioned in a BVA poll
published in  L’Express  magazine on Oct. 19 said they disapprove
of Sarkozy, making him the most unpopular president since the
Paris-based institute started polling in 1981. The poll
questioned 962 people and no margin of error was given.  Lowest Rating  A poll published yesterday by the Ifop firm commissioned
for the newspaper Journal du Dimanche said his approval rating
fell to 29 percent this month from 32 percent in September, the
lowest since his May 2007 election. Paris-based Ifop called
1,828 respondents aged 18 and over between Oct. 14 and 22. No
margin of error was given.  Sarkozy’s signature legislative measure, raising the
minimum retirement age, has led to four national strikes in the
past two months. Unions voted Oct. 21 to call two more days of
protests in coming weeks.  The export office also hasn’t been a big success. France
lost a tender in December 2009 to sell nuclear reactors to the
United Arab Emirates. London-based Eurostar Group Ltd. chose
Germany’s  Siemens AG  trains over France’s  Alstom SA .  Sarkozy personally announced the retirement measure on June
15, appeared in a television interview July 12 to defend it, and
has spoken about it during his trips around the country. On
Sept. 14 he spent 20 minutes explaining it to a group of
construction workers south of Paris.  No Retreat on Pensions  The president has repeatedly vowed not to retreat on the
bill. One out of 10 pensions is paid for through government
borrowing and the state pension fund will lose 10.7 billion
euros this year. The shortfall will reach 50 billion euros in
2020 without a change in policy, according to the Budget
Ministry.  “This reform had been postponed for too long and the
deadline couldn’t be pushed further anymore,” Sarkozy said at a
press conference in Deauville on Oct. 19.  It may be too late for Sarkozy’s Union for a Popular
Movement party to win back swing voters ahead of elections in
2012, said BVA poll director  Gael Sliman .  “His party’s traditional voters will stick to him, but all
potential others are likely to go for whoever the other will
be,” Sliman said. “This reform will certainly become a
handicap.”  Sarkozy may still be able to rebound. The opposition
 Socialist Party  is divided over whom to nominate in 2012.  Cooling-Off Period  In the near term, the government is counting on the Oct. 22
to Nov. 4 school vacations to cool the demonstrations, and on
the behavior of protesters to turn public opinion against them:
Strikers have blocked access to airports and youths have battled
police and broken windows.  France takes over the presidency of the Group of 20 nations
next month, giving Sarkozy an international stage to push issues
popular with French voters, such as regulating financial markets
and challenging the dollar’s reserve status.  Sarkozy advertised his approach to governing in a book,
“Testimony,” published the year before he was elected.
Mitterrand and Chirac, he wrote, “were statesman who focused
more on history and French traditions than on reforming France.
My focus as president will be on what I want to build.”  Such a style was always inherently risky if things went
bad, said Jim Shields, who holds the chair in French at Aston
University in Birmingham, U.K. “By maximizing his personal
authority, he has also maximized his personal responsibility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  