-- Singapore Exchange Offers $8.3 Billion Cash and Stock for ASX
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2010-10-24T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/singapore-exchange-said-to-plan-an-8-2-billion-cash-stock-offer-for-asx.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd.  plans to
offer cash and stock worth about A$8.4 billion ($8.2 billion) to
buy ASX Ltd., operator of the Australian stock exchange, said
two people familiar with the matter.  Singapore Exchange  will offer A$48 per ASX share and pay
about 55 percent of the deal in stock and the remainder in cash,
said the people, who asked not to be identified before an
announcement scheduled for tomorrow. The cash portion will
amount to A$22 for each  ASX  share, they said.  A new holding company will be formed out of the transaction
with its shares primarily listed in Singapore, the people said.
Depository receipts of the combined company will be traded in
Australia, they added. Investors will receive 3 1/2 Singapore
Exchange shares for each ASX share, one of the people said.  The combination would be the first between two exchange
companies in the Asia-Pacific region and will create the area’s
first pan-regional stock exchange. The takeover would bolster
the global competitiveness of the Singaporean and Australian
bourses by lowering costs, allowing new products and increasing
the scale of their operations, one of the people said.  Singapore Exchange will appoint its chairman and chief
executive officer to the combined company and ASX will appoint
the deputy chairman, one of the people said.  The offer price represents about a 37 percent premium to
the last closing price of ASX in Sydney. Trading in shares of
both companies was halted on Friday, Oct. 22.  Asian Financial Center  Morgan Stanley advised Singapore Exchange and UBS AG is
ASX’s adviser, the people said.  Matthew Gibbs , an ASX spokesman, and Magdalyn Liew, a
spokeswoman for Singapore Exchange, each declined to comment.  “Singapore, keen to establish itself as the financial center
of Asia, needs to attract liquidity to its stock exchange,”
said Will Rhode, an analyst at TABB Group LLC, a Westborough,
Massachusetts-based financial research and advisory firm focused
on capital markets. “Just 27 firms trading more than $10
million per day on the Singapore exchange, compared to 300 names
in Tokyo. The acquisition of ASX would be a solution to that
woe.”  Competition in the region is increasing. Chi-X Global Inc.,
an electronic-trading platform, has won preliminary approval to
become a competitor to ASX and is working toward starting
Australian operations by March.  Trading Alternatives  The Singaporean bourse and Chi-X Global, part owner of
Europe’s largest alternative trading system, agreed in August
last year to start the first exchange-backed dark pool in Asia.  Singapore Commodities Exchange, a unit of the Singapore
bourse, faces competition from the Singapore Mercantile Exchange,
which started operating in the city-state in August. SMX is
backed by  Financial Technologies (India) Ltd. , which operates
the largest commodity exchange in India.  The Australian and Singapore exchanges, whose operators
have a combined market value of about $13.9 billion, are the
Asia-Pacific region’s fifth-and eighth-largest stock markets
respectively.  Australia’s stock market is worth about $1.36 trillion,
compared with Singapore’s $558.2 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Even so, Singapore Exchange is the larger
company, with a market value of about $7.86 billion, compared
with ASX’s $6 billion.  Since  Magnus Bocker , former president of Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc., took over from Hsieh Fu Hua as chief executive of
Singapore Exchange last year, the company has announced new
initiatives to enhance the bourse’s position as an Asian capital
markets hub. The exchange on Oct. 22 started trading 19 American
Depositary Receipts of Asian companies to boost trading volumes.  In June, the bourse said it will invest S$250 million in a
new trading system that will be the world’s fastest when it goes
live in 2011. The following month, Singapore Exchange and the
London Metal Exchange said they will introduce cash-settled
metals futures contracts by the first quarter of next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  