-- Patriots, Steelers Hold on To Win, Join Jets With NFL-Best 5-1 Records
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-25T04:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/steelers-beat-dolphins-23-22-to-join-jets-with-nfl-best-5-1-record.html
The New England Patriots and
Pittsburgh Steelers improved to 5-1 by pulling out road wins
yesterday, tying the New York Jets for the best record in the
National Football League.  The Patriots won in San Diego 23-20, drawing even with the
Jets atop the American Football Conference’s East Division as
the Chargers’  Kris Brown  missed a 50-yard field goal attempt
with 23 seconds left. The Steelers took advantage of a
controversial ruling on a late fumble to win 23-22 in Miami.  The Super Bowl champion New Orleans Saints (4-3) were upset
30-17 at home by the Cleveland Browns (2-5) in Week 7 of the NFL
season, while the Atlanta Falcons, Tennessee Titans and
Baltimore Ravens won to improve to 5-2.  The New York Giants can move to 5-2 tonight when they visit
the Dallas Cowboys, who are seeking to avoid a 1-5 start after
winning the NFC East title last season.  “The one thing that you know is when the New York Giants
play the Dallas Cowboys, it’s a great game,” Giants center
 Shaun O’Hara  said. “They’ve found a way to lose some games, but
that doesn’t mean that they’re not a good team.”  The Minnesota Vikings equaled their four losses from last
season with a 28-24 defeat last night in Green Bay. The Vikings
fell to 2-4 as quarterback  Brett Favre , who played 16 seasons
for the Packers, threw three interceptions, including one that
was returned for a touchdown.  There were nine interception returns for touchdowns
yesterday, the most in one day in NFL history.  Interception Returns  Cleveland linebacker  David Bowens  scored two touchdowns
after intercepting passes from Saints quarterback  Drew Brees ,
while Washington’s  DeAngelo Hall  returned one of his NFL-record
four interceptions 92 yards for the go-ahead score in the
Redskins’ 17-14 win over Chicago.  The Patriots almost blew a 20-3 second-half lead before
dropping the Chargers to 2-5.  San Diego, which had a 13-3 record last season, scored 17
points in the fourth quarter before Brown’s attempt at a tying
field goal bounced off the uprights.  The Steelers beat the Dolphins on an 18-yard field goal by
 Jeff Reed  with 2:26 remaining that came one play after a fumble
by quarterback  Ben Roethlisberger  at the goal line.  Trailing 22-20, Roethlisberger dived into the end zone on
third down as the ball spilled from his grasp.  ‘Bizarre’  The on-field ruling of a touchdown was overturned by video
review, yet the officials said there was no clear indication of
who recovered the ball in the end zone.  The Steelers got the ball back for a fourth-down play at
the half-yard line and Reed’s kick sent the Dolphins to a fifth
straight home loss dating back to last season.  “It was just a bizarre kind of play,” Roethlisberger, who
threw two touchdown passes, said during a news conference. “You
hate to win it that way but you’ll take the win.”  The Falcons defeated the Cincinnati Bengals 39-32 as  Matt Ryan  threw for three touchdowns -- two to  Roddy White  -- and the
Titans downed the Philadelphia Eagles 37-19 as  Kenny Britt 
caught three touchdown passes. White had 201 receiving yards and
Britt had 225, marking the fifth time in NFL history that two
receivers each recorded at least 200 receiving yards and two
touchdowns on the same day.  Overtime Win  The Ravens beat Buffalo 37-34 on  Billy Cundiff ’s 38-yard
field goal in overtime, dropping the Bills to 0-6. Buffalo is
the lone winless team in the NFL after the Carolina Panthers
beat the San Francisco 49ers 23-20.  Tampa Bay won 18-17 against St. Louis, Kansas City defeated
Jacksonville 42-20, Seattle topped Arizona 22-10, and the
Oakland Raiders routed the Denver Broncos 59-14 behind four
touchdowns from  Darren McFadden .  The Jets, Detroit, Indianapolis and Houston were idle
during Week 7.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dex McLuskey  in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net 
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 