-- Steele Predicts Republicans to Win Control of House; Senate to Be Tougher
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2010-10-24T19:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/steele-predicts-republicans-to-win-control-of-house-senate-to-be-tougher.html
Michael Steele , the chairman of the
 Republican National Committee , said he expects his party will
win the U.S. House of Representatives in the midterm election
while having difficulty taking control of the Senate.  An “unprecedented wave on Election Day” will take the
House for the Republicans, he said on NBC’s “Meet the Press”
program. “The Senate’s a little bit tougher.”  Steele said the RNC has raised $175 million in this
election cycle, as voters are showing dissatisfaction with
President  Barack Obama ’s policies. Steele challenged Obama’s
accusations that Republicans have been unwilling to work with
him on health care and environmental issues. Rather, Democrats
have “summarily rejected” Republican positions, Steele said.  Campaigning across the country before the Nov. 2 elections,
Obama is accusing Republicans of threatening to roll back his
policies. Nonpartisan political analysts, including  Charlie Cook 
of the  Cook Political Report  in Washington, project that
Democrats will likely lose several seats in the Senate and cede
control of the House to Republicans.  Pat Toomey, the Republican candidate for Senate in
Pennsylvania, echoed Steele, acknowledging it would be difficult
to control the Senate. Still, Toomey said on “Fox News Sunday”
that he is optimistic his party will win enough seats to take
over the chamber. He is trying to show his opponent, U.S.
Representative Joe Sestak has “extreme views.”  Swing Voters  “The key is for me to continue to get my message out
to the swing voters, to the independent voters who understand
that Washington’s on the wrong track,” Toomey said. “We can’t
borrow and spend our way to prosperity.”  Joe Manchin , the Democratic West Virginia governor  running 
for the Senate seat of the late  Robert C. Byrd , has tried to
overcome Obama’s low popularity in the state by highlighting his
differences with the president. Manchin said on the Fox program
that he disagrees with Obama on carbon cap-and-trade
legislation, which has little support in his coal-producing
state.  The Democrats’ health-care-overhaul legislation was
“overreaching,” Manchin said. He said he would have preferred
to stick with items that both Democrats and Republicans could
agree on, such as making it illegal to deny health insurance
coverage to people with pre-existing conditions.  ‘In the Weeds’  “Reaching as far as they did in the -- in the weeds of the
bill that we didn’t know about, no one else knew about until it
came out -- knowing that, I would not have supported that or
voted for that at that time,” said Manchin, who is running
against Republican businessman John Raese.  Tim Kaine , the chairman of the  Democratic National
Committee , said “it’s going to be close” for the Democrats to
hold onto the House. The former Virginia governor said he has
seen his party pick up momentum, and that Democrats have been
“getting out of the canyon.” Voters have shifted to the
Democrats as they evaluate the Obama administration’s
accomplishments of the past two years, he said on ABC’s “This
Week” program.  “Four or five months ago, the Republicans thought they had
a great chance at taking both houses, but for a variety of
reasons the Senate has gotten much more difficult for them,”
Kaine said.  Chris Van Hollen, a representative from Maryland who chairs
the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said his party
is starting to see momentum from early voting and concerns of
unregulated funding to Republican causes.  “The American people are connecting the dots between these
tens of millions of dollars of secret special interest money,”
Van Hollen said on the CBS “Face the Nation” program. “When
we look under the curtain, we’re beginning to see who these
groups are and the fact that they want to take us back to a day
when special interests ran Washington.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  