-- Supertankers Face Losing Run as Frontline Shuns Oil
-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 2010-10-25T15:52:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/supertankers-face-longest-losing-streak-in-17-years-as-frontline-shuns-oil.html
Supertanker owners are facing the
longest stretch of unprofitable rates in 17 years as the supply
of new vessels increases nine times faster than demand for oil.  Shipping companies are making $3,826 a day for a single
voyage, 88 percent below the $30,900 Frontline Ltd., the biggest
operator, says it needs to break even. Morgan Stanley estimates
the tanker fleet will expand almost 13 percent next year and the  International Energy Agency  says oil use will grow 1.4 percent.  Ships ordered before rates plunged from $177,036 in July
2008 are swelling the fleet of about 526 supertankers. Owners
have responded by cutting average speeds 9 percent since March
and anchoring 24 percent more vessels since January, ship-
tracking data compiled by Bloomberg show.  John Fredriksen , the
chairman of Frontline, said last month there “won’t be much
money to earn” in shipping in the next two to three years.  “Investing in tankers right now is a bad idea,” said
Pablo Mastragostino, a broker at Riverlake Shipping SA in
Geneva. “When people say oil-consumption has increased by some
tiny amount, I laugh. It corresponds to a minuscule amount of
extra ships, and there’s far more coming out of the yards.”  The global oil-tanker fleet will expand by 86.5 million
deadweight tons in the next two years, equal to about 27 percent
of existing capacity, Morgan Stanley estimates. The extra ships,
being built by yards including Shanghai Waigaoqiao Shipbuilding
Co. and Dalian Shipbuilding Industry Co., would exceed the
previous record of 79.8 million deadweight tons set in 1974 and
1975, according to the research unit of Clarkson Plc, the
world’s largest shipbroker.  Freight Derivatives  Forward freight agreements traded by brokers and used to
speculate or hedge are trading no higher than $28,285 through
2012, data on Oct. 22 from Imarex ASA show. Single-voyage daily
rates slumped 90 percent to $3,826 this year, according to data
from the  Baltic Exchange .  Six of eight shipbrokers and owners surveyed by Bloomberg
say unprofitable rates for supertankers, each bigger than the
Chrysler Building, will last at least two years.  That would be the longest losing stretch since one that
ended in 1995, when the fleet also had too many ship orders,
according to Martin Stopford, a director at Clarkson and author
of “Maritime Economics,” now in its third edition.  Freight derivatives and brokers have proved wrong about
previous slumps. In June, derivatives were pricing in a third-
quarter average of $44,944 when the price turned out to be
$13,526. Second-quarter hire costs were forecast at $28,758 in
an April survey by Bloomberg of 13 analysts, traders and
shipbrokers. They traded 71 percent higher.  Price Swings  Part of the explanation lies in price swings. Rates moved
20 percent or more in seven of the last eight quarters,
according to data from the London-based Baltic Exchange. The S&P
GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities last moved more than 20
percent in the second quarter of 2009, while the MSCI World
Index of stocks did it once in the last decade.  “At these very low rates, I doubt many owners will
continue to run the service of delivering crude,” said Hugo De Stoop, chief financial officer of  Euronav NV , an Antwerp,
Belgium-based tanker operator. “Normally the winter should
trigger an uptick in rates.”  Most owners lease vessels in the single-voyage market, or
for longer-term accords, some of which remain profitable. While
one-year contracts are trading at a daily rate of $30,000, five-
year charters are at $39,000, London-based Clarkson estimates.  “I’m sure there will be small spikes soon, but they will
only lift the market to levels that are still difficult for
owners,” said Martin Sommerseth Jaer, an analyst at Arctic
Securities ASA in Oslo.  Delays, Cancellations  The collapse in rates encourages owners to delay and cancel
orders. Missed deliveries ran at about 30 percent in the past
two years, said Axel Styrman, an analyst at Carnegie ASA in
Oslo. The fleet expansion may also diminish as ships with single
hulls get scrapped, he said. Companies are phasing out the
vessels, which are “more accident prone,” according to the
European Union.  “Everything is not doom and gloom,” said Jens Martin Jensen, chief executive officer of Frontline’s management unit.
The order book is “relatively large, but I don’t think it will
be of the magnitude we see on paper.”  Even if fleet growth falls short of forecasts, shipowners
will still have to contend with a slowing economy. Global growth
will drop to 4.2 percent in 2011, from 4.8 percent this year,
the  International Monetary Fund  said Oct. 6. The U.S., the
world’s biggest oil consumer, will expand 2.5 percent, from 2.7
percent in 2010, according to the median estimate of as many as
74 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Tanker Operators  World trade may also be slowing. An index compiled by the
Hamburg Shipbrokers’ Association reflecting rates for six types
of  container ships  fell for four consecutive weeks through Oct.
22, the longest losing streak in almost a year.  Equity analysts’ estimates for next year will probably have
to be cut, Pareto Securities AS analysts led by Martin Korsvold
in Oslo said in a report Oct. 20. The team reduced its 2010
earnings estimates on 11 tanker companies.  Shares of Bermuda-based Frontline, rated “buy” or
“hold” by 19 of 26 analysts tracked by Bloomberg, fell 5.6
percent in Oslo trading this year. While the mean estimate for
the company’s 2010 earnings per share dropped to $2.68 from as
much as $3.26 in August, that’s still twice last year’s profit,
data compiled by Bloomberg from 20 analyst forecasts show.  Third-Quarter Loss    Overseas Shipholding Group Inc ., the biggest U.S. tanker
operator, is rated “buy” or “hold” by 15 of 18 analysts
tracked by Bloomberg. Shares of the New York-based company fell
23 percent this year in  New York . Euronav reported a third-
quarter loss on Oct. 19 and said it was “cautious” about 2011.  Euronav anchored some of its suezmaxes, which have half the
capacity of supertankers, in the third quarter because rates
were too low, the company said Oct. 19. Frontline’s Jensen told
investors in August that he was shunning some business because
it made more sense to anchor ships, cut speeds and let the crew
“do some fishing.”  The fleet was swollen this year by the return of vessels
that had been used to store oil or refined products. Banks,  oil
companies  and traders used record numbers of ships in the final
months of 2009 to profit from longer-dated energy futures
trading at a premium to contracts for immediate delivery, SSY
Consultancy & Research Ltd. said at the time. The trade was
profitable so long as the difference between energy contracts
exceeded the cost of storage, insurance and financing.  Brent Oil Contracts  The spread between the first and sixth Brent oil contracts
traded on the London-based ICE Futures Europe narrowed to an
average of $1.93 a barrel in the third quarter, from $5.48 at
the start of 2009, spurring traders to remove almost all the
fuel stored at sea and returning ships to compete for business.
The spread has narrowed to $1.81 so far this quarter.  “It doesn’t look good over the next few years,” said
Glenn Lodden, an Oslo-based analyst at DnB NOR Markets, which
has “sell” ratings on Frontline, Overseas Shipholding and
Euronav. “We’re not expecting any significant tightening of the
market any time soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 Anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 