-- Sweden Faces Price Danger Leading EU Rebound: Inflation Bonds
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2010-10-24T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/sweden-faces-biggest-price-risk-with-fastest-eu-recovery-inflation-bonds.html
Sweden’s bond market is signaling
the biggest increase in inflation expectations in the advanced
world, pushing the central bank to raise interest rates as soon
as this week.  The gap between yields on the nation’s five-year inflation-
linked bonds and notes that aren’t indexed to the rate of
consumer price changes jumped 0.56 percentage point since Sept.
1 to 1.89 point as of 5 p.m. London time on Oct. 22. The
increase in that spread, a so-called breakeven rate that
represents investors’ expectations for inflation over the life
of the bonds, was the largest among developed economies.  While a 13 percent rise in exports helped drive the 4.6
percent annual increase in Sweden’s  gross domestic product  in
the second quarter, it has also fed inflation concerns at the
Stockholm-based Riksbank. At a time when the Federal Reserve,
Bank of Japan, European Central Bank and Bank of England are
pursuing measures to pump money into the financial system,
Swedish policy makers raised their  benchmark seven-day repo rate 
twice this year, to 0.75 percent from 0.25 percent in July.  “The Swedish story is a combination of fiscal stimulus,
export companies successfully easing through the recession with
help from the weak currency, high consumer demand and labor
markets staying strong,” said  Stefan Mellin , a macro-strategist
at Danske Bank A/S in Stockholm, in an interview. “They have
enough arguments for higher rates going forward.”  Debt Erosion  Sweden’s  five-year inflation-linked bonds  yielded 0.424
percent on Oct. 22, compared with a 2.324 percent yield on their
non-indexed counterparts. Ten-year inflation-linked debt yielded
0.819 percent, versus 2.789 percent on regular government debt
of the same maturity.  Inflation-linked bonds track consumer-price gains to
compensate investors for the erosion of debt values caused by
inflation. The bonds rise as consumer price expectations
increase, sending yields lower. The leap in the spread between
Sweden’s five-year inflation-linked bonds and regular debt has
topped moves in the 10 markets tracked by Bloomberg since the
beginning of last month.  The Riksbank on Sept. 2 said the  repo rate will average  2.1
percent in the third quarter next year, 3.1 percent a year later
and 3.8 percent in the third quarter of 2013. The repo is the
rate at which banks can borrow or deposit funds at the central
bank for a week at a time. Sweden’s  headline inflation  will
average 1.1 percent this year, 1.9 percent in 2011 and 2.5
percent in 2012, the Riksbank predicts. That compares with the
bank’s 2 percent  target .  Governor  Stefan Ingves , who announces the next rate
decision on Oct. 26, said the bank will continue to raise
interest rates “for quite a while” at last month’s meeting.  Linker Returns  Policy makers will raise the repo rate a quarter of a
percentage point to 1 percent this week, according to all 20
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg.   The Riksbank’s rate path assumes economic growth this year
of 4.1 percent. Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt ’s government on
Oct. 12 said output will expand 4.8 percent this year, putting
Sweden on track for the European Union’s biggest economic
rebound after last year’s 5.1 percent contraction.  Reinfeldt, whose coalition won a second four-year term in
Sept. 19 elections, has used the European Union’s smallest
budget deficit to help finance stimulus measures this year
equivalent to 1.2 percent of Sweden’s $470 billion economy.  Swedish inflation-linked bonds on average returned 3.743
percent last quarter. That compares with a 2.737 percent return
for equivalent U.S. debt, a 3.574 percent return on U.K. Gilts
that track consumer prices and a 2.571 percent return on
equivalent Italian debt, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Index.  Not Alone  The Riksbank may not be the only central bank facing an
inflation threat. According to ING Groep NV, “there is a case
for a more hawkish ECB.”  “We see already that inflation pressures are building in
some countries, albeit from low levels,” ING Senior Economist
 Carsten Brzeski  said in an Oct. 6 interview. “The inflation
trend is turning.” Euro-area inflation accelerated to 1.8
percent in September, the fastest pace in almost two years.  The U.S. Treasury bond market shows that the Federal
Reserve’s quantitative easing measures will succeed in sparking
inflation in the world’s largest economy. Expectations for
rising consumer prices have increased faster in the U.S. than in
any other bond market this month.  Still, a faltering global recovery threatens to quell
inflation pressures, according to  Par Magnusson , chief Nordic
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Stockholm. He
says that may even prevent the Riksbank from raising rates next
year.  ‘Change Their Tune’  “They will hike” in October “and they will mostly likely
hike in December, but then from February I don’t think it will
be possible,” Magnusson said. “The krona will probably
appreciate over the next two months as long as they stay
hawkish, but when they change their tune, the krona might take a
hit.”  The bank’s current rate forecast has helped fuel a 22
percent krona appreciation against the dollar since a June 7
low, making it the best performer of the 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg in the period.  Since it started providing numerical rate forecasts in
2007, the Riksbank revised its rate path 13 times out of 21. The
bank in 2008 raised rates 11 days before the collapse of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc ., only to cut its repo rate 2.75
percentage points the following quarter.  ‘Best Trades’  “The best trades come from policy mistakes and the
Riksbank over the last four years made the most dramatic
revisions to their forecasts,” said  David Deddouche , a currency
strategist at Societe Generale SA.  Magnusson says the Riksbank may need to adjust policy next
year as the Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank signal
they’re not shifting toward tightening.  The U.S. economy will grow only 1.75 percent over the next
year, with risks pointing to even slower expansion, said  Ramin Toloui , an emerging markets portfolio manager at Pacific
Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s biggest bond
fund, on a conference call last week. That compares with a 2.5
percent growth forecast for 2011 in a Bloomberg survey.  In the EU, the risk of slower growth is increasing as
governments press ahead with cutting deficits, the International
Monetary Fund said on Oct. 20. The Fund expects the euro area to
grow 1.5 percent next year. Sweden’s economy will expand 2.6
percent in 2011, compared with the Riksbank’s 3.5 percent
estimate, the IMF said.  Not Feasible  Sweden, which sends 60 percent of its exports to the EU,
“is very leveraged on exports and the central bank is
underestimating the fragility of the global economy,” said
 Nicola Mai , a London-based economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “I
do think they will have to correct their view.”  The ECB, which has kept its benchmark at 1 percent since
May 2009, on Oct. 7 said rates are “appropriate.” The Federal
Reserve, which has kept its main rate in a range of zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008, on Sept. 21 reiterated plans to
keep the benchmark “exceptionally low” for an “extended
period.”  “It’s not feasible to keep on hiking when everyone else is
on hold,” Mai said.  So far, the prospect of weaker global growth hasn’t dented
Swedish data.  Outperformance  The Citi Economic Surprise Index shows Sweden’s economic
indicators have outperformed economist estimates more than data
out of Australia, which is trying to steer a commodity-led
rebound driven by Chinese demand. The index, which compares
actual figures with Bloomberg survey medians, shows an average
reading of 58 since the end of June for Sweden, versus 51 for
Australia. A positive index reading indicates economic releases
have beaten consensus estimates.  Sweden’s  OMX Stockholm 30  Index is the third-best
performing developed market this year, having risen 17 percent
compared with a 5.1 percent gain in the  European benchmark Stoxx
600 .  Inflation will jump 0.8 percentage point to average 2
percent next year, compared with a 0.3 point increase in
Germany, no change in the U.S. and a 0.5 point drop in the U.K.,
according to economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sweden’s
headline inflation rate rose 0.5 point last month to 1.4
percent.  Swedish bonds linked to consumer price gains are
“fundamentally a cheap asset class given the inflation path
going forward,” said Stockholm-based  Andreas Ohlsson , a Nordea
Bank AB fixed-income trader focusing on inflation-linked bonds.
The notes trade with a premium of about 10 basis points because
of limited liquidity.  ‘Remain Hawkish’  While other central banks, including the Oslo-based Norges
Bank, pause tightening cycles, the Riksbank will probably
“remain hawkish,” according to Deddouche. Consumer and
business confidence reached a 10-year high in September, while
Sweden’s manufacturing sector expanded for a 16th month.  Deddouche said he expects the bank to raise the benchmark
repo rate at its October and December meetings.  “Sweden’s demand upsurge will offset any disinflationary
effect from a strong krona in the near term,” said  Gizem Kara ,
a London-based economist at BNP Paribas SA. “Next year is a
different story as the spill-over effects from the global
slowdown on Sweden are likely to prevent the Riksbank from
hiking rates aggressively. But near term, they’re definitely
hiking.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Josiane Kremer  in Oslo at 
 kremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  