-- Clegg Says Spending Cuts `Morally Difficult' as Nobel Winner Attacks Steps
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-10-24T11:40:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/u-k-s-clegg-says-cuts-morally-difficult-as-nobel-winner-attacks-steps.html
U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said he found it “morally difficult” to push through the
biggest budget cuts since World War II, measures criticized
today by Nobel Prize-winning economist  Christopher Pissarides.   “I have certainly searched long and hard into my own
conscience about whether what we are doing is for the right
reasons,” Clegg told the BBC’s  “Desert Island Discs”  radio
program, which aired today. “I am not going to hide the fact
that a lot of this is difficult. I find it morally difficult. It
is difficult for the country.”  Clegg, whose Liberal Democrat party is the junior partner
in the U.K.’s coalition government, is trying to convince voters
that the cuts are worthwhile. There are no “pain-free
alternatives” to the measures, which were announced on Oct. 20
by Conservative Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , he
said. A poll published by News of the World today showed Liberal
Democrat support fell two percentage points to 16 percent.  The Conservative Party rose two points to 40 percent and
Labour support climbed by the same margin, increasing to 36
percent. ICM surveyed 1,025 adults on Oct. 21-22.  The coalition’s spending cuts will peak at 81 billion
pounds ($113 billion) in 2015 as it seeks to shrink the deficit
to 2 percent of economic output from more than 10 percent today.
The plan, which the government says is necessary to stave off a
Greek-style budget crisis, will lead to half a million public
job losses.  Exaggerated Risk?  Yet the winner of the 2010 Nobel Prize for economics,
Christopher Pissarides, wrote in today’s Sunday Mirror  newspaper 
that Osborne has “exaggerated” the risks facing the U.K. and
the spending cuts may make the economic situation worse.  “No one doubts the chancellor is taking risks with the
economy,” wrote Pissarides, a professor at the London School of
Economics. “These risks were not necessary at this point. He
could have outlined a clear deficit reduction plan over the next
five years, postponing more of the cuts until recovery became
less fragile.”  Speaking before the Confederation of British Industry’s
annual conference tomorrow, Clegg told the BBC’s “Andrew Marr
Show” the government’s focus is moving on to economic growth.  “There’s nothing pro-growth about having this deadweight of
debt around our necks, there’s nothing pro-growth about spending
120 million pounds a day just simply on the interest on our
debt,” Clegg said. “We need to move on to the rest of the
equation, lay down the conditions in which growth will
flourish.”  Clegg also revealed on Desert Island Discs that he is a fan
of Schubert, Johnny Cash, Prince, Radiohead and David Bowie.
Asked what book he would take if he found himself marooned on a
desert island, he opted for Giuseppe Tomasi di Lampedusa’s “The
Leopard.” His one luxury would be a “stash” of cigarettes.  “I know I’m not supposed to say this because it’s a
terrible thing,” Clegg said. “And I hope my children don’t
hear this program because they don’t even know that I smoke.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 