-- Vladimir Potanin's Offer to Buy Out Rusal Is `Beginning of End' to Feud
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2010-10-24T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/vladimir-potanin-s-offer-to-buy-out-rusal-is-beginning-of-end-to-feud.html
Russian billionaire  Vladimir Potanin ’s offer to buy United Co. Rusal’s stake in  OAO GMK
Norilsk Nickel  for $9 billion is “the beginning of an end” in
a feud between the company’s two largest shareholders, UralSib
Financial Corp. said.  “One of the two sides has to leave,” said  Chris Weafer ,
chief strategist at the Moscow-based brokerage. “There
is no other solution available. We have now clearly entered a
more proactive phase in this conflict.”  Potanin wrote to Rusal Chairman  Viktor Vekselberg  Oct. 22
urging him to discuss selling Rusal’s 25 percent in Russia’s
biggest mining company. Rusal said in an e-mailed statement it
won’t sell its “strategic” investment. Potanin, whose Interros
Holding Co. holds 25 percent of Norilsk, said he viewed
Rusal’s statement as “taking a pause” to consider it.  A feud between Potanin and  Oleg Deripaska ’s Rusal dating
back to 2008 reignited after a June election of the Norilsk
board that gave Rusal three seats to Potanin’s four. A majority
of Norilsk investors on Oct. 21 voted against Rusal’s motion to
re-elect the board in a blow to Deripaska’s ambitions to boost
his influence.  Potanin has clashed with Deripaska over how Moscow-based
Norilsk manages cash and operations. Deripaska wants bigger
 dividends  to help Rusal pay off about $13 billion of  debt  and a
management overhaul, and has offered to buy Potanin’s Norilsk
stake.  “Rusal’s debt position remains critical,” UralSib’s
Weafer said by telephone from London today. “Potanin expects
that the offer of this size will put pressure on Rusal from its
creditors to consider it seriously.”  Binding Offer  Interros will be ready to make a binding offer to prove its
intentions are “serious,” Potanin told reporters Oct. 22.
Interros offered to start talks at a $9 billion valuation for
Rusal’s stake in Norilsk, more than the $8.5 billion Rusal paid
for it in 2008, Potanin said.  Rusal’s investment “is not for sale at any price and is
viewed as a critical component of Rusal’s future strategy of
diversification,” said  Nathaniel Rothschild , chairman of EN+
Group, billionaire  Deripaska ’s investment company ,which
owns 47 percent of Rusal. Potanin’s offer “is derisory,” while
EN+ is “open to a merger in the future,” according to a
statement distributed by EN+ Oct. 23.  “If Rusal insists that it’s their strategic investment,
then I expect a merger offer,” Potanin told reporters in Moscow
Oct. 22. “I don’t understand why it’s been more than two years
after the purchase, but there is no offer.”  Potanin backs Norilsk Chief Executive Officer  Vladimir Strzhalkovsky ’s team and wants to curb Rusal’s control.
Interros, which won’t seek more than 30 percent of voting
interest, Norilsk and the mining company’s pension fund were
among investors willing to work together on the buyout, Potanin
said.  “Using Norilsk’s balance sheet is effectively a buyback,”
and minority investors should have an opportunity to
tender their stock, Potanin said, adding that Interros could
abstain from tendering shares in these circumstances.  Russian officials have said the government would intervene
should the shareholder conflict threaten operations at Norilsk,
which is the world’s biggest nickel producer.  “I wouldn’t be surprised if Rusal came back with some
counter-offer,” UralSib’s Weafer said. “But the bottom line
is: the government will have to decide who will stay.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 