-- LVMH `Playing a Waiting Game' for Hermes Takeover, Analysts Say
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2010-10-25T16:44:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/lvmh-playing-a-waiting-game-for-hermes-after-buying-stake-analysts-say.html
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA 
said it’s not seeking a takeover of  Hermes International SCA 
after agreeing to buy a 17.1 percent stake for 1.45 billion
euros ($2 billion). Analysts aren’t convinced.  LVMH said Oct. 23 it doesn’t intend to launch a tender
offer, take control or seek board representation at the maker of
Birkin bags after announcing it owns 14.2 percent of Paris-based
Hermes, with the option to increase the stake to 17.1 percent.
LVMH didn’t say who sold the holding in Hermes, whose stock is
mainly held by members of the founding family.  “LVMH is playing a waiting game,” said  Luca Solca , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in London. LVMH, the maker of
Fendi handbags and Hublot watches, “is putting itself in pole
position for an outright acquisition as the conditions appear.”  Chief Executive Officer  Bernard Arnault , 61, has built LVMH
into the world’s largest luxury-goods company by snapping up
brands from Donna Karan International Inc. to Glenmorangie Plc.
He bought a 5 percent stake in Gucci Group in 1999, saying LVMH
didn’t intend to make a full bid, then increased the holding to
34 percent within a month. Arnault, ranked seventh on the Forbes
magazine list of the world’s richest people, eventually lost a
takeover battle for Gucci to French rival PPR SA.  Family Attachment  Hermes  shares  have doubled since the May 1 death of former
Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Louis Dumas  on speculation members
of the founding family may be more willing to sell. His death
hasn’t changed the family’s attachment to the 173-year-old
company, Hermes said then.  “Unsolicited” movements in Hermes’s capital have led the
family to “confirm its absolute unity and unanimous wish” to
retain control of the company in the long term, Hermes said
today in a statement.  About 73 percent of Hermes is held by the family,  Patrick Albaladejo , Hermes vice president of strategic development and
image, said today in a phone interview.  LVMH would have paid an average of about 80 euros a share
at the stated value for the entire stake, or about a 54 percent
discount to the Oct. 22 closing  price  of 176.20 euros, according
to Bloomberg calculations.  Hermes shares last traded around 80 euros in March 2009,
which “is, in our view, the point from which this position
might have been built over time,”  Thomas Chauvet , an analyst at
Citigroup in London, said in a note. LVMH shares rose 2.70
euros, or 2.4 percent, to 116 euros today.  Admired Brand  Hermes  is one of the most admired brands in the luxury
goods industry, according to Scilla  Huang Sun , head of equities
at Swiss & Global Asset Management in Zurich. The bag maker
commands high prices, high margins and has a strong following
among consumers, she said.  “It’s the trophy,” Huang Sun said in a phone interview.
She oversees about 4 billion Swiss francs ($4.1 billion),
including LVMH and Hermes shares. “There’s only one Hermes.”  Hermes shares climbed 26.65 euros, or 15 percent, to 202.85
euros in Paris trading. That values the company at 21.4 billion
euros. Some traders who held short positions on the shares
closed their bet today because of uncertainty around the stock,
causing the shares to rise, according to  Stephane Ekolo , an
equity sales trader at Newedge Group in London.  Family members “are fully united around a common business
vision,” the company said in a statement late yesterday.
“Their long-term control of Hermes International is guaranteed
by its financial status as limited partnership by shares and the
family shareholders have confirmed that they are not
contemplating any significant selling of shares.”  Market Rules  Under French stock market regulation, if an entity states
that it has no intention of filing a bid, it will be banned from
doing so for six months “unless there are material changes in
the environment, the circumstances or the ownership of the
entities concerned.”  French law requires shareholders to say when they own five
percent or more of a company. The stock market regulator, or
AMF, verifies whether regulations were respected when a stake
crosses a threshold of five percent, a spokeswoman said.  LVMH said today it met French regulatory rules regarding
the acquisition and will file the appropriate notifications
within the timeframe stipulated by the AMF.  ‘Grand Palaces’  “It smells like something that has been decided in the
grand palaces and establishments in France,” Solca said. “You
don’t just end up buying such a big share at such as big
discount by chance.”  A spokesman for LVMH declined to comment on the seller of
the stake. No one from the Hermes founding family sold a block
of shares, Albaladejo said.  Based on Friday’s closing price, the remaining 82.9 percent
equity in Hermes had a market value of 18.5 billion euros,
according to Barclays Capital. Assuming a 20 percent premium and
the current 1.45 billion euro stake, LVMH would have to pay a
total cost of 19.6 billion euros to acquire Hermes outright,
Barclays analysts including  Vicky Lee  wrote today in a note.  LVMH could raise funds by selling its 66 percent holding in
its drinks venture to partner  Diageo Plc , according to Matthew
Jordan, an analyst at Matrix in London. Selling that stake could
raise more than 10 billion pounds ($15.7 billion), Jordan
estimated.  LVMH’s net  debt  was 2.57 billion euros, as of June 30.
After buying the stake, LVMH’s 2010 estimated net debt will be
2.7 billion euros, or 0.5 times earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, according to Chauvet.  If LVMH does agree to buy Hermes, “we believe that a large
portion of this value could be raised as debt and therefore that
the group would not necessarily need to sell a business such as
Moet Hennessy to acquire Hermes - especially if the deal took
some years to materialize,” Lee wrote.  Corporate Structure  Dumas led Paris-based Hermes from 1978 until his retirement
in 2006, when he was succeeded as sole CEO by  Patrick Thomas ,
the first non-family member to run the company. Thomas, 63, has
said there would be no sale of a majority stake while the fifth
and sixth generations of the family were in control.  Under Thomas, Hermes’s profit margins have shrunk to 15.1
percent last year from 17.3 percent in 2005. LVMH’s  profit
margins  remain about 10.3 percent.  Hermes is an SCA, or Societe en Commandite par Actions,
which in France is used by family-owned businesses allowing
members to keep control of the corporate affairs even when they
become minority shareholders. The SCA means LVMH cannot take
operational control of the company without the approval of the
fifth generation of the family. They still control the majority
of voting rights in partner company Emile Hermes SARL, which
represents the family shareholders, according to according to
HSBC analyst  Erwan Rambourg .  Sixth Generation  Only a group of shareholders owning at least two-thirds of
total Emile Hermes shares have the right to appoint the chairman
of Hermes International, Rambourg said.  LVMH is positioning itself for when the sixth generation
will have gained control through transmission of shares,
Rambourg wrote. “While the fifth generation always said it
wanted Hermes to remain independent, the sixth generation may
think differently,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 