-- World Sweet Spot Is Nordic as Exports Lift Stocks
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2010-10-25T15:55:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/world-sweet-spot-found-in-nordic-market-as-exports-lift-stocks.html
Nordic equities are trouncing the
developed world as earnings from  SKF AB ’s ball bearings and
Waertsilae Oyj’s ship engines drive  Europe ’s fastest economies.  Benchmark indexes in Denmark,  Sweden  and  Finland  are
averaging gains of 22 percent this year, compared with the 4.7
percent advance for the MSCI World Index and a 3.1 percent loss
in the Euro Stoxx 50. Analysts have raised profit estimates for
the countries more than 20 percent this year, twice the rate of
the U.S. and six times the average for companies in the euro
area, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While politicians and central bankers around the world
struggle to keep economies from shrinking, the combination of
surging exports and Europe’s smallest deficits is boosting
optimism for Nordic markets. Credit-default swaps show Danske
Bank A/S and  Swedbank AB  are among Europe’s safest lenders,
though their shares trade at lower multiples of assets than
Banco Santander SA and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA.  “They have a banking system with no financial problems up
in the north, and companies benefiting from the decoupling of
the Asian economies,” said John Ricciardi, manager of the
Iveagh Wealth Fund in  London , whose clients include the family
that founded brewer Guinness and a Swedish government pension
fund. “With current valuations, it makes more sense to go for
the safer markets.”  Global Economy  Concern that the global economy is faltering dragged the
MSCI World down as much as 17 percent earlier this year. Central
banks from the  Federal Reserve  to the Bank of Japan have cut  interest rates  to near zero and are considering buying assets
such as government bonds through so-called quantitative easing
to spur inflation. U.S. growth may slow to 2.5 percent next year
from 2.7 percent in 2010, while Japan’s economy may expand by
1.4 percent in 2011 after growing 3.1 percent this year,
according to economists’ forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  In Sweden, all 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect
the Riksbank to raise interest rates this week for a third time
since July to keep inflation in check. Policy makers will boost
the rate by 25 basis points to 1 percent, according to the
survey.  Sweden’s budget deficit will amount to 2.1 percent of gross
domestic product this year, the smallest in the European Union,
the European Commission said in May. Finland’s shortfall of 3.8
percent and Denmark’s 5.5 percent compare with 10.1 percent
forecast for the U.K.  ‘Question Marks’  “The Nordic countries don’t have the same question marks
as the U.S., where there’s uncertainty about the Fed and
quantitative easing, and there are no serious structural issues
like in the rest of Europe,” said Stephen Wood, the New York-
based chief market strategist for Russell Investments, which
manages $140 billion.  Nordic markets are reaping the benefits of rising exports
to emerging economies. Exports account for half of GDP in
Denmark, Norway and Sweden, according to government figures.
Overseas revenue in Finland, which makes up 37 percent of the
economy, rose 27 percent in the first eight months of the year.  The  OMX Copenhagen 20 Index  is the developed world’s best-
performing benchmark gauge this year after surging 27 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The  OMX Stockholm 30 Index  has
rallied 17 percent, the OMX Helsinki 25 Index is up 25 percent
and Norway’s OBX Index has advanced 8.6 percent. The Stoxx
Nordic 30 Index gained 0.4 percent as of the 5:30 p.m. close in
Stockholm today, taking its 2010 increase to 22 percent.  Lower Rating    DnB NOR ASA , Norway’s biggest bank, is paring bets on
speculation rising currencies will dent exports. The Swedish
krona rebounded 26 percent versus the euro from a record low in
March 2009 and Norway’s krone appreciated 23 percent against the
euro and 24 percent versus the dollar since 2008, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are still bullish on Scandinavian equities, but are
also aware of the strengthening of the krona and the Swedish
stock market,” said Torkild Varran, who helps oversee $100
billion as Oslo-based chief investment officer at DnB NOR. “We
see that as a possibility to take some profit.” DnB cut the
region to “neutral” from “overweight” last week.  Nokia, Kemira  Finland’s market surged even as  Nokia Oyj , the nation’s
largest company, tumbled 10 percent amid product delays and
competition from Apple Inc. The drop has been overshadowed by
rallies in all but five of the stocks on the Helsinki 25.
Waertsilae is up 82 percent and Helsinki-based Kemira Oyj, the
world’s second-biggest maker of chemicals used in papermaking,
jumped 54 percent.  Nokia in Espoo, the world’s biggest mobile-phone maker,
rebounded 6.3 percent on Oct. 21 after beating analysts’
estimates for third-quarter profit.  Sweden’s GDP, half of which comes from exports, will surge
4.8 percent this year, the Finance Ministry said on Oct. 12. The
European Union will grow 1.8 percent on average in 2010, the
commission estimates. Swedish manufacturing expanded for a 16th
consecutive month in September, data on Oct. 1 showed, while
consumer and business confidence soared to the highest level in
a decade as hiring rose and households resumed spending.  Gothenburg-based SKF, the largest ball-bearing producer,
Scania in Soedertaelje, Sweden, and Helsinki-based Waertsilae
will help Nordic stocks post average profit growth of 71 percent
for the three years ending in 2012, estimates from more than
2,000 analysts compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with 45
percent for the Euro Stoxx 50 index in Europe.  Biggest Increases  Full-year profit estimates for Sweden, Denmark and Finland
have risen between 22 percent and 26 percent since the start of
2010, Bloomberg data show, the biggest increase among 18
European markets along with the 23 percent gain for Germany’s
DAX. Analysts boosted forecasts by 3.2 percent for the Euro
Stoxx 50 and 11 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The Nordic 30, a gauge of the largest stocks in the region,
is up 21 percent this year and trades at 15.3 times projected
earnings, down from 21 times in September 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The Euro Stoxx 50’s valuation has
fallen 22 percent and the MSCI World’s declined 24 percent since
peaks last year.  “They still look attractive,” said Ian Scott, a London-
based strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. who estimated on July
19 that Sweden’s OMX 30 will gain 22 percent through the first
half of 2011, the highest return among eight western European
markets.  Asian Growth  SKF rallied 10 percent on Oct. 19, the most in 18 months,
after saying net income more than tripled. The company raised
earnings targets, said it will keep growing in  Asia  and agreed
to buy Lincoln Industrial Corp., the 100-year-old U.S. maker of
lubrication pumps, for $1 billion.  Waertsilae reached a 2 1/2-year high on Oct. 20 after
reporting profit that was twice analysts’ estimates. The company
said vessel orders through the third quarter topped those for
all of 2009 on growing demand from  China  and contracts from  Brazil , Russia and the Philippines, while sales in the Caribbean
and Bangladesh helped power-plant orders double.  Analysts have tripled their profit estimates this year for  Scania AB , the truckmaker controlled by Volkswagen AG. The
shares dropped 4.3 percent today even as the company reported a
45 percent jump in orders, paring the stock’s advance this year
to 58 percent. Sales rose 38 percent on demand for trucks in
Brazil, the company said. Net income beat estimates in a
Bloomberg survey of analysts.  Bank Value  Danske Bank, Denmark’s largest lender, trades at 1.26 times
tangible book value, a measure of shareholder equity that
excludes assets that can’t be sold at liquidation, even after a
22 percent gain in 2010. Swedbank in Stockholm is at 1.56 times
tangible assets after rising 37 percent this year. That compares
with readings of 1.65 times and 1.84 times, respectively, for
Spain’s BBVA and Santander.  A lower multiple for Nordic lenders “just doesn’t make
sense,” said Christer Gardell, founder of Cevian Capital AB in
Stockholm. “The banking market is a solid, well structured
market with relatively low risk.” Cevian, which manages $4
billion, in August said it owns 4.64 percent of Sweden’s
Swedbank together with billionaire Carl Icahn.  Of 63 banking credit-default swaps in Europe and the Middle
East tracked by Bloomberg, four of the six lowest prices are for
Scandinavian companies. Traders insuring 10 million euros ($14
million) of debt of Stockholm-based  Svenska Handelsbanken AB  or  Nordea Bank AB , DnB in Oslo or Copenhagen-based Danske must pay
on average 63,200 euros annually for five years. That compares
with an average cost for all banks of 209,358 euros, CMA data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Credit-Default Swaps  Swedbank’s credit-default swaps trade at 82 basis points,
or 82,000 euros per 10 million euros insured, while Santander’s
and BBVA’s default swaps trade at 151 and 175 points.  Shares of Swedbank, the largest lender in the Baltic
countries, rose to the highest in more than two years on Oct. 21
after reporting better-than-estimated earnings. Credit Suisse
Group AG, Switzerland’s second-largest bank, tumbled 4.5 percent
the same day on a slump in profit. Credit Suisse trades at 1.71
times tangible book.  Madelynn Matlock, who helps manage about $13 billion at
Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati including shares in
Stockholm-based  Svenska Cellulosa AB , Europe’s largest tissue
maker, says she’s looking at Nordic nations for possible
additional investments. She cited growing exports and the
relative outlook for the economy.  “They are stable economies that are in decent shape,” she
said. “I regret we haven’t had more exposure to the region.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  David Merritt  at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 