-- Yields Slide as Ping An Targets Corporate Bonds: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-24T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/yields-drop-at-record-rate-as-ping-an-targets-corporate-debt-china-credit.html
Yields on China’s corporate bonds
are falling at a record pace relative to government debt as
regulators allow insurance companies to boost their holdings of
the securities.  The  premium  investors demand to hold 10-year notes issued
by companies rated AAA instead of sovereign debt shrank 49 basis
points this year to 89 basis points, the biggest annual drop in
Chinabond data going back to 2006. Ping An Insurance (Group)
Co., China’s No. 2 insurer, will raise the proportion of
corporate issues in its holdings, Deputy Chief Investment
Officer  Timothy Chan  said in an Oct. 21 interview in Shanghai.  China has the lowest yields of the world’s four largest
developing economies and its financial companies are favoring
notes that offer the potential for higher returns amid the
fastest inflation in almost two years. The local-currency
corporate bond market expanded 54 percent to $546 billion in the
year to June 30, helping fund private enterprises in a nation
that’s relied on state-bank lending for three decades, the Asian
Development Bank said in a report this month.  “So long as we can get hold of the paper, we prefer
corporate bonds,” said Chan, who oversees about 600 billion
yuan ($90 billion) as chairman of Ping An’s asset-management
unit. “The biggest concern is negative interest rates. Either
rates have to go up or inflation has to come down.”  Inflation, Rates  The yield on Ping An’s investment income was 3.7 percent in
the first half of this year, down from 4.8 percent in the same
period of 2009, the company  said  Aug. 25. Ping An had 86 percent
of its portfolio invested in fixed-income assets and 9 percent
in equities at the end of June, according to Chan.  China’s  consumer prices  climbed 3.6 percent in September,
the most in 23 months, the statistics bureau said on Oct. 21.
 Gross domestic product  increased 9.6 percent in the last three
months from the same period of 2009, the smallest gain in a
year. Two days earlier, the People’s Bank of China raised its
one-year lending rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 5.56
percent and its deposit rate by the same amount to 2.5 percent.  Inflation “isn’t going away” and the central bank should
“theoretically” raise rates further, Chan said. Policy makers
will likely boost borrowing costs at least twice in 2011,
according to eight of 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
on Oct. 21.  One-year interest-rate  swaps , the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase  rate , rose 19 basis
points last week to a four-month high of 2.38 percent. While the
swap rate is still lower than the  deposit rate , the gain
suggests investors are adding to bets for another increase in
borrowing costs this year. Five-year swaps climbed 34 basis
points to 3.42 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Non-Guaranteed Bonds  The China Insurance Regulatory Commission  raised  the
ceiling on Aug. 5 for an insurance firm’s non-guaranteed
corporate bond holdings to 20 percent of total assets in the
previous quarter, from 15 percent. The principal and interest of
guaranteed notes are backed by a third party.  The difference in yields between guaranteed corporate bonds
and government securities may range from 80 basis points to 100
basis points in 2011, and the spread for non-guaranteed debt may
be 10 to 20 basis points wider, Ping An’s Chan said.  Demand for corporate bonds has also grown this year as
lending curbs prompt commercial banks to funnel more capital
into debt. The central bank raised  reserve-requirement ratios 
for the four largest lenders four times this year and restricted
property lending to help prevent a bubble.  Insurers, Banks  “Most financial institutions have increased investments in
corporate debt this year,” said  Tang Guohui , a bond trader at
Industrial Securities Co. in Shanghai. “We also boosted our
investments by 20 percent.”  Rising demand for the securities has helped drive down
yields, mitigating the impact on companies’ borrowing costs of
the first rate  increase  since 2007. The  rate  on 10-year debt
issued by companies with top AAA ratings has dropped 49 basis
points this year to 4.53 percent. It’s up from as low as 4.14
percent on Aug. 20.  Similar-maturity government bonds  yield  3.64 percent,
compared with 12.18 percent in Brazil, 8.14 percent in India and
7.96 percent in Russia. Chinese government yields surged 20
basis points on Oct. 20, when the rate increase took effect, and
climbed another 2 basis points in the past two days.  Yuan Gains  The yuan weakened 0.3 percent last week to 6.6590 per
dollar in Shanghai, trimming its gain this month to 0.5 percent.
The government allowed the currency to strengthen 1.7 percent in
September, the biggest monthly gain since a peg ended in July
2005. Non-deliverable forwards show traders expect 2.8 percent
appreciation to 6.4753 during the next 12 months.  China’s  central bank  said on Aug. 17 it would let overseas
financial institutions invest yuan holdings in the nation’s
interbank bond market to promote greater use of the currency in
global trade and finance. Standard Chartered Plc and HSBC
Holdings Plc said this month they have received approval.  Chinese government dollar bond risk is falling, reflecting
optimism over the economy’s outlook, according to traders of
credit-default swaps. Five-year contracts on the nation’s debt
dropped 10 basis points this month to 57 basis points on Oct.
22, according to CMA prices. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to debt
agreements.  Insurers will face increasing risks as their investments
expand,  Wu Dingfu , Chairman of the China Insurance Regulatory
Commission, wrote in an article published in China Finance
magazine this month. Chan said Ping An started creating a
credit-analyst team in 2003 to prepare for more investments in
corporate securities.  “We have built our own credit-rating system ourselves,”
said Chan. “That will help us avoid a lot of credit risks,” he
said, adding that Ping An doesn’t hold property debt.  -- Judy Chen ,  Kong Ho Chua , Allen Wan. Editors:  James Regan ,
 Sandy Hendry   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7047 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ; 