-- Zaha Hadid Builds on Garbage-Truck Site, Likes Being Outsider
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2010-10-24T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-24/zaha-hadid-builds-on-garbage-truck-site-likes-being-outsider-interview.html
Zaha Hadid  mingles with a group of
uniformed teenagers in what was once a garbage-truck depot.  The  architect  is touring her first London building -- a
36.5 million pound ($57 million) secondary school in Brixton,
the area where the 1981 riots broke out -- and hearing a girl
grumble that the concrete interior dusts her blue blazer.  “It will wash off,” Hadid coolly replies. “What’s nice
about concrete is that it looks unfinished.”  After almost four decades living in the U.K. capital and
building elsewhere, Iraqi-born Hadid finally has a London
edifice to her name. Days earlier, she bagged the U.K.’s  RIBA
Stirling Prize  at last after being nominated three times before.  Brixton’s  Evelyn Grace Academy  -- built with government
money and run by the  ARK  Foundation, co-founded by financier
 Arpad Busson  -- is a gated state-of-the-art campus. Its bending
facade of concrete and glass vaguely recalls the project she won
the Stirling for: Rome’s 150 million euro ($209 million)  MAXXI 
contemporary-art museum.  Hadid in 2004 became the first woman to win the  Pritzker
Architecture Prize , though she still had many unbuilt projects.
Some of her most eye-catching work is coming up: the Guangzhou
Opera House, the  2012 London Olympics Aquatics Centre .  The architect joins me for a conversation in front of one
of her blazer-staining concrete walls. Hadid, who turns 60 on
Oct. 31, wears leggings, patent-leather ankle boots, and a high-
collared asymmetrical jacket. Stuck on her Prada clutch bag is
the ‘visitor’ sticker she was given at reception.  Outside Breakthrough  I ask if the school and the Stirling seem like a U.K.
breakthrough.  “Not particularly,” she says. “I still feel I’m on the
outside -- but that could be a good place to be.”  In Brixton, she has kept the building in the middle with
sports fields and a running track on the rim.  “It’s not like a fortress, where you have a school on the
perimeter of the site, and everything within is not visible,”
she says. With gates put in for safety, people outside “can see
the activities within.”  Her hope is that students in this underprivileged area will
avoid a “ghettoized and fortified” life, and “be inspired by
certain aspects of the building.”  Hadid’s own childhood was nothing like that. She grew up in
an affluent Baghdad home -- her father was finance and industry
minister before running a series of factories -- and found her
calling aged 11 seeing maquettes for her aunt’s new house.  Iraq Bank Bomb  Hadid never tasted life under Iraqi dictator  Saddam Hussein , and last saw her homeland in 1980. She has been asked
to design Iraq’s new central-bank building, which was
subsequently damaged in a bomb attack that killed at least 15
people. She wants to go back to Iraq -- though not right away,
to avoid putting her staff at risk.  I bring up criticism that her flying-saucer-like Olympic
pool is costing three times more than estimated. She says more
price transparency is needed, and uses her expensive-looking
blouse as an analogy. Though it cost “maybe 2 pence,” she
says, she spent more, “because you have to pay for the shop
that sells it, and those who transport it from wherever it may
be.”  “It’s the same with architecture: The manufacturing cost
is one cost, and the real cost is another.”  Her architecture is flamboyant, and there have been
criticisms that recession has made some projects -- such as the
planned Dubai Signature Towers -- obsolete.  “Dubai has its problems, and maybe that kind of flashiness
will cool off for a short period of time,” she says.  Work Ambition  Otherwise, “we get more work than at any other time,” she
says. People “are much more ambitious about their environments:
They want to live in better housing, look at a better city, go
clubbing, eat out, go to museums, look at art. These kinds of
activities are no longer just for privileged people.”  The average citizen “is no longer tolerant of some
mediocre thing,” she points out.  We talk about a city she loves: Istanbul, where she
vacations in a hotel on the Bosphorus, watching the ships go by.
Hadid then speaks with awe of the supertankers she recently saw
gliding through the Jordanian port of Aqaba.  I ask if she’s conscious of being a walking brand to some
people.  “I’m not really aware of it,” she says. “I tell you,
working in architecture is such a tough business. You’re hit on
the head all the time. So you’re humbled.”  “Of course, you’re much more recognized and your status
changes,” she says. “But you don’t know how much longer it
will last.”  ( Farah Nayeri  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
 Farah Nayeri  in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 