-- Nortel Networks UK Files for Bankruptcy in U.S.
-- Michael Bathon
-- 2009-06-08T17:24:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-06-08/nortel-networks-uk-files-for-bankruptcy-in-u-s-update1-.html

          
          
             Nortel Networks UK Ltd. filed for
Chapter 15 bankruptcy in Delaware to block U.S. lawsuits while
it reorganizes overseas. The Nortel companies sought Chapter 11
bankruptcy in the U.S. and Canada in January.  
 The company, a unit of  Nortel Networks Corp. (NY) , is asking the
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  to recognize the English proceeding as
“foreign main proceedings,” court papers show.  
 Toronto-based Nortel filed for  bankruptcy protection  in the
U.S. and Canada in January, and in London for its European
subsidiaries, after losing $5.8 billion last year as phone
companies curbed spending to cope with the slowing economy.  
 U.K.-based Nortel Networks UK is Nortel’s center of
operations and headquarters for its European, Middle East and
African group of companies, according to court documents.
Similar actions are being taken for 18 other companies in those
regions, court papers show.  
 Alan Robert Bloom, Christopher John Wilkinson Hill, Alan
Michael Hudson and Stephen John Harris are the court-appointed
administrators and authorized foreign representatives of Nortel
Networks UK in the proceedings before the  High Court  of Justice
of England and  Wales , according to court papers.  
 The administrators seek Chapter 15 recognition “to ensure
that the comprehensive cross-border restructuring of the Nortel
companies progresses in an orderly and efficient way,” court
papers show.  
 The case is In re Nortel Networks UK Ltd., 09-11972, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        