-- AIG Settles Lawsuit Over Stock Decline for $725 Million, May Sell Shares
-- Dakin Campbell
-- 2010-07-17T01:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-17/aig-settles-lawsuit-over-stock-decline-for-725-million-may-sell-shares.html

          
          
             American International Group Inc. ,
the bailed-out insurer, agreed to pay $725 million to settle a
lawsuit by investors as it seeks to resolve a backlog of
litigation and repay the U.S. government.  
 AIG said it may sell common stock to raise $550 million of
the total, according to a regulatory filing yesterday. If the
New York-based company is unable to raise that sum, the
agreement may be terminated.  
 “If you had to do it, now would be the time to do it,”
Optique Capital Management analyst  William Fitzpatrick  said,
referring to a share sale. Milwaukee-based Optique oversees $800
million and doesn’t own AIG shares. “There are plenty of funds
available that want the issue; the question will be under what
kind of terms.”  
 Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  is settling with
investors who lost money when the insurer’s stock plunged amid a
2004 investigation by then-New York Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer  into bid rigging and faulty accounting. The insurer
agreed in November to settle legal disputes with former CEO
 Maurice “Hank” Greenberg , who was ousted in 2005. AIG said in
a Nov. 6 filing it faced more than a dozen lawsuits and probes.  
 The suit covered by yesterday’s agreement was filed by
plaintiffs including public pension funds in Ohio, New Mexico,
Mississippi and California. They claimed AIG fraudulently
inflated results, causing the share price to plummet when the
deception was uncovered. Under the settlement agreement, AIG
will pay $175 million within 10 days of preliminary court
approval.  
 Go Forward  
 “The key here is for the company to go forward and make
money and do business and have issues dealing with supervisors
and shareholders all in the past,” said  Ernest “Ernie” Patrikis , a partner at White & Case and a former general counsel
at AIG. “It’s another major impediment behind them.”  
 AIG settled with Spitzer and federal regulators in 2006,
agreeing to pay $1.64 billion.  
 The insurer was forced in September 2008 to take a
government bailout that swelled to $182.3 billion, giving the
U.S. a stake of almost 80 percent. If AIG raises at least $550
million through a share sale to repay the U.S. government, that
will trigger a full payment of yesterday’s settlement, according
to the filing.  Andrew Williams , a spokesman for the Treasury
Department, had no immediate comment.  
 “We are pleased to have resolved this matter,” AIG
spokesman  Mark Herr  said in a statement. “This settlement ends
a long-standing lawsuit, allowing AIG to continue to focus its
efforts on paying back taxpayers and restoring the value of our
franchise for the benefit of all our stakeholders.”  
 Selling Shares  
 A share sale would be the first for AIG since May 2008,
when it needed funds to cushion losses tied to bad bets on
subprime mortgages. The stock has risen 19 percent this year,
outpacing the 4.5 percent decline in the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index .  
 AIG declined $1.74 to $35.64 yesterday in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. That compares with $767.40 on May
12, 2008, when the last offer priced, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  
 Ohio Attorney General  Richard Cordray  said in a separate
statement that total damages from AIG will reach $1 billion,
including earlier lawsuits. In April, Cordray said AIG would
settle allegations it violated Ohio antitrust laws by colluding
to restrict the commercial insurance market.  
 “This historic settlement is an excellent result for all
shareholders harmed by AIG’s misconduct, including Ohio’s
teachers, firefighters, police officers and public employees,”
Cordray said.  
 In February, the insurer hired  Thomas Russo  to be general
counsel. Russo was the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. chief legal
officer when the securities firm went bankrupt in 2008. Last
month, AIG named former Lehman managing director  David A. DeMuro 
as head of compliance and regulatory affairs.  
 The case is In re American International Group Inc.
Securities Litigation, 1:04-cv-08141, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        