-- Apple Sets Up Cots for Engineers Working `Butts Off' on IPhone Antenna Fix
-- Rochelle Garner
-- 2010-07-17T06:41:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-17/apple-sets-up-cots-for-engineers-working-butts-off-on-iphone-antenna-fix.html

          
          
             At  Apple Inc. , “working our butts
off” means cots in the engineering department and cars in the
parking lot at all hours of the night.  
 Seeking a solution to the antenna flaw that is dropping
calls for some iPhone 4 users, Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  said yesterday that  employees  started a round-the-clock
effort to improve the reception amid complaints since the
device’s debut on June 24.  
 “We’ve been working our butts off in the last 22 days to
understand what the real issues are here so we can come up with
real solutions,” Jobs said at a press conference.  
 Jobs offered customers free rubber cases that prevent the
dropped calls by covering the external antenna on the left-hand
corner of the iPhone. That will stop users from gripping it in a
way that interferes with reception. He is giving full refunds to
buyers who are still dissatisfied.  
 While just 0.55 percent of users complained, Jobs said the
reception glitch is industrywide and Apple wants to be the first
to find a solution. Apple, the world’s biggest technology
company by  market value , will offer free cases until Sept. 30
and then decide whether it has a better solution for the iPhone
4. The iPhone accounts for about 40 percent of revenue and is a
bigger  moneymaker  than the Macintosh or iPod.  
 “Apple did leave some unanswered questions, such as
providing a definitive answer on whether a full
software/hardware fix is likely in the next several months,
which we believe is a possibility,” said  Katy Huberty , an
analyst at Morgan Stanley in New York.  
 ‘Every Smartphone’  
 Apple, based in Cupertino, California, aims to burnish the
iPhone’s image after Consumer Reports opted not to recommend the
device, citing difficulty sending and receiving calls.  Apple  was
stunned, upset and embarrassed by the magazine’s review, Jobs
said yesterday. The company has sold more than 3 million of the
devices, he said.  
 “We tested it -- we knew that if you gripped it a certain
way, bars would go down a little bit,” Jobs said yesterday.
“We didn’t think it would be a big problem because every
smartphone has this problem.”  
 Media and blog reports have sensationalized those concerns,
with some dubbing the situation “Antennagate,” Jobs said.  
 “We care about all of our users, and we won’t stop until
every one of them is happy,” Jobs, dressed in his trademark
jeans and black turtleneck, said. “This is blown so out of
proportion that this is incredible.”  
 ‘Everything We Can Do’  
 Every iPhone 4 buyer will either get a free rubberized case
called a  Bumper  or the option to choose another case if  Apple 
Bumpers aren’t available, Jobs said. People who already bought a
$29 Bumper will get a refund.  
 Customers can also return their undamaged iPhone 4 within
30 days of purchase for a full refund.  AT&T Inc. , the iPhone’s
exclusive U.S. carrier, will provide refunds and cancel service
contracts, Jobs said.  
 “That’s everything we can do to make every customer
happy,” said Jobs, who cut short his vacation in Hawaii earlier
this week so that he could meet with the media yesterday.  
 Bloomberg reported that an  Apple  engineer warned Jobs last
year that the new external antenna design chosen for the iPhone
4 might interfere with calls, citing a person with knowledge of
the matter. A carrier partner also told Apple the external
antenna might interfere with reception, according to another
person familiar with the situation.  
 Jobs said yesterday he didn’t know about the antenna
concerns early on. He called Bloomberg’s report a “total
crock.”  
 Motorola CEO  
 Apple has tested other smartphones to see if gripping them
a certain way hurts reception. It found the same shortcoming on
 Research In Motion Ltd. ’s BlackBerry Bold, HTC Corp.’s Droid
Eris and  Samsung Electronics Co. ’s Omnia II, Jobs said.  
 Motorola Inc. Co-Chief Executive Officer  Sanjay Jha  said
his devices don’t have the same antenna issues as the iPhone 4,
countering Jobs’s remarks.  
 Phones with the antenna on the outside of the chassis --the
design used by Apple’s latest model -- are more likely to have
reception issues, Jha said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.
Schaumburg, Illinois-based  Motorola ’s Droid phones compete with
the iPhone 4.  
 “It is disingenuous to suggest that all phones perform
equally,” he said. “In our own testing we have found that
Droid X performs much better than iPhone 4 when held by
consumers.”  
 BlackBerry  
 Users of the BlackBerry smartphone don’t need a case to
maintain connectivity,  Research in Motion  said.  
 “Apple’s attempt to draw RIM into Apple’s self-made
debacle is unacceptable,” said an e-mailed statement from the
Ontario-based company that cited Co-Chief Executive Officers
 Mike Lazaridis  and  Jim Balsillie . “RIM has avoided designs like
the one Apple used in the iPhone 4 and instead has used
innovative designs which reduce the risk for dropped calls.”  
 Consumer Reports  said yesterday that the free-case offer
was “a good first step.” The magazine didn’t change its
rating, saying it would wait for a long-term fix.  
 Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co. in
Minneapolis, estimates that the Bumper and case giveaway will
cost Apple $40 million between now and Sept. 30. If  Apple 
decides to extend the free offer through the next 12 months, it
may cost $178.5 million, he said.  
 Some users say the offer of a free Bumper or case isn’t
good enough. “I don’t want a Bumper, I want this really nice,
sleek design,” said Dave Forer, a statistician who lives in San
Francisco. “I want a phone that actually works.”  
 Apple fell $1.55 to $249.90 yesterday in  Nasdaq Stock
Market   trading . The shares have declined 7.8 percent since June
23 -- the day before the iPhone 4 went on sale. While Jobs
apologized to customers experiencing reception issues, he said
he wouldn’t apologize to investors.  
 ‘Law of Physics’  
 The new phone drops less than 1 additional call per 100
calls than the iPhone 3GS, which was released last year. Jobs
also said that return rates for the iPhone 4 are lower than for
the 3GS. The early return rate through AT&T was 1.7 percent,
less than a third of the previous model’s number.  
 The glitch hasn’t prevented iPhone 4 inventory from selling
out. Apple tells visitors to its  website  that iPhone 4 models
will ship within three weeks. The company sells a 16-gigabyte
model for $199 and a 32-gigabyte version for $299. Those prices
require U.S. customers to sign up for a two-year service
contract with  AT&T.   
 The company will continue work to improve its smartphone
antenna technology, Jobs said.  
 “Can we make the situation better that it is right now?
Maybe, we’ll see,” Jobs said. “We haven’t figured out a way
around the law of physics. Yet.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Connie Guglielmo  in San Francisco at 
 cguglielmo1@bloomberg.net ;
 Rochelle Garner  in San Francisco at 
 rgarner4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        