-- Asian Stocks Rise for Second Week, as DBS Group Climbs on Singapore GDP
-- Akiko Ikeda
-- 2010-07-17T04:37:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-17/asian-stocks-rise-for-second-week-as-dbs-group-climbs-on-singapore-gdp.html

          
          
             Asian  stocks  rose for a second week
as record sales at Intel Corp. and unprecedented economic growth
in Singapore overshadowed weak U.S. factory reports and a
slowdown in China.  
 LG Corp. , the largest shareholder in the world’s third-
biggest maker of mobile phones, surged 12 percent to 73,700 won
as Intel’s second quarter sales beat estimates. DBS Group
advanced 3.9 percent in Singapore after the city-state announced
its economy expanded at a record 18.1 percent pace in the first
half of 2010.  Li & Fung Ltd. , the biggest supplier to retailers
including Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Target Corp., dropped 3.4
percent in Hong Kong as Federal Reserve officials downgraded
their outlook for the U.S. economy and retail sales slowed.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  climbed 0.05 point, or less
than 0.1 percent, this week to 116.23, its smallest weekly
advance since October 2005. A late surge by Indian shares pulled
the index into  positive territory  after declining U.S. factory
output and weaker-than-expected earnings at Google Inc. had seen
the Asian gauge erase gains from earlier in the week.  
 “Expectations for the economic recovery were strong but
the momentum is weakening,” said  Kenji Sekiguchi , general
manager of strategic research and investment at Mitsubishi UFJ
Asset Management Co., which oversees $73 billion in assets. “It
seems spending by both companies and households has leveled off.
We can’t be very optimistic about the economic prospects yet.”  
 LG Corp. Rises  
 Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average declined 1.9 percent this
week, led by banks after the ruling party lost control of the
upper house in elections. China’s Shanghai Composite Index lost
1.9 percent as China’s expansion slowed. Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng
Index  declined 0.6 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose
0.6 percent. South Korea’s Kospi Index rose 0.9 percent.
Singapore’s Straits Times Index climbed 1.4 percent after its
economy grew at a record pace.  
 Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.  climbed 5.3 percent to
833.65 rupees, giving it a market value of $34.9 billion and
making it Asia’s most valuable software developer. Tata
Consultancy’s shares lead gains on the Bombay Stock Exchange’s
benchmark  Sensitive Index , or Sensex, which finished the week
0.7 percent higher.  
 Intel had record second-quarter revenue and predicts third-
quarter sales will be $11.6 billion, plus or minus $400 million,
the Santa Clara, California-based company said today in a
statement. Analysts had estimated $10.9 billion on average,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  
 Singapore’s Record Growth  
 Gains by technology stocks were pared after Google, owner
of the world’s most popular search engine, reported profit was
$6.45 a share in the second quarter. Analysts had estimated
$6.52, according to a Bloomberg survey.  
 DBS climbed 3.9 percent to S$14.80. City Developments Ltd.,
Singapore’s second-biggest home builder, added 3.1 percent to
S$11.34.  Capitaland Ltd. , Southeast Asia’s largest developer,
increased 3 percent to S$3.79.  
 Singapore’s  gross domestic product  expanded at a 26 percent
annualized pace in the second quarter from the previous three
months, after a revised 45.9 percent gain in January to March,
the trade ministry said July 14. Growth in the first half was
the fastest since records began in 1975, prompting the
government to predict GDP will rise 13 percent to 15 percent in
2010.  
 U.S. Economic Data  
 In Hong Kong, Li & Fung Ltd. dropped 3.4 percent to
HK$36.50.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. , a global fashion retailer,
declined 1.7 percent to HK$43.45. Stocks also fell after China’s
economic expansion eased to 10.3 percent in the second quarter
from 11.9 percent gain the previous quarter.  
 In the U.S., factory output fell the most in a year last
month, according to a Federal Reserve report. Sales at U.S.
retailers dropped 0.5 percent in June, more than projected,
Commerce Department figures showed on July 14.  
 Separately, minutes of a June meeting of Federal Reserve
officials showed that the U.S. central bank’s economic outlook
assessment “softened,” and that policy makers saw no need to
boost economic stimulus even as they trimmed growth forecasts.  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has slumped about 10 percent
from its high this year on April 15 as Europe’s debt crisis and
Chinese steps to curb property prices spurred concerns the
global economy may slow. The retreat drove down the average
price of shares in the gauge to 14 times  estimated earnings .  
 ‘Sense of Caution’  
 Nintendo Ltd., maker of Wii game consoles, tumbled 6.8
percent to 24,350 yen this week in Osaka, Japan, after U.S.
sales of its DS handheld game player fell by a third in June.
 Panasonic Corp. , the world’s biggest maker of home electronics
and which earns almost half its sales overseas, dropped 5.4
percent to 1,119 yen in Tokyo.  
 “A sense of caution is increasing that a slowdown in
consumer spending in the U.S. may spread to manufacturing,”
said  Toshiyuki Kanayama , a market analyst at Tokyo-based Monex
Inc. “Stocks that rely on profits from the country will likely
decline.”  
 China’s economic expansion eased to 10.3 percent in the
second quarter and industrial production cooled more than
forecast in June, signaling a deeper second-half slowdown that
may add to risks for the global economy.  
 China Life Insurance Co. , the nation’s biggest insurer,
fell 5.3 percent to HK$33.40 in Hong Kong. It was the biggest
single drag on the Asia Pacific Index for the week.  
 China’s data “could be a signal for a slowdown in economic
growth and corporate earnings for the second half of the year,”
said  Peter So , head of research at CCB International Securities
Ltd.  
 Agricultural Bank IPO  
 Poly Real Estate Group Co. , China’s second-largest
developer, slumped 1.4 percent to 11.26 yuan in Shanghai after
China said it will “strictly” enforce policies preventing
speculative real-estate investment. Country Garden Holdings Co.,
a mainland developer, slipped 0.4 percent.  
 Agricultural Bank of China , China’s largest bank by
customers, began trading this week. It rose to HK$3.27 from the
initial public offering price of HK$3.20 in Hong Kong on July
16. In Shanghai, It declined 0.4 percent to 2.69 yuan from the
IPO price of 2.68 yuan in the two days it traded.  
 The lender, also known as AgriBank, raised $19.2 billion in
the IPO.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
 Akiko Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        