-- BOE's Sentance Says `Gradual' Rate Increase in U.K. Would Assist Recovery
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-07-17T12:34:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-17/boe-s-sentance-says-gradual-rate-increase-in-u-k-would-assist-recovery.html

          
          
             Bank of England policy maker  Andrew Sentance  said a gradual interest rate increase from a record low
to fight inflation will help support the economic recovery.  
 “We certainly don’t want to snuff out the recovery, but we
want to keep a check on inflation,” Sentance said in an
interview with BBC Radio 4’s “Money Box” program. “If we can
raise interest rates in a gradual way, that will be helpful for
the recovery because it will mean there won’t be a big shock to
the business community.”  
 Sentance, 51, in June became the first member of the Bank of
England’s Monetary Policy Committee to push for a rate increase,
which would be the first in almost two years. The other seven
policy makers opted to keep the  benchmark rate  at 0.5 percent as
they weighed the risk of inflation against the danger that the
deepest public spending cuts since World War II will kill the
economic recovery.  
 The central bank also kept the rate unchanged this month,
with the minutes of that meeting scheduled for release on July
21.  
 A rise in  inflation  has been “quite a surprise,” Sentance
told the BBC.  
 Consumer prices have risen by more than the government’s 3
percent limit in every month since February and the statistics
office yesterday said they increased 3.2 percent in June, more
than economists surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast.  
 “We had previously expected the recession to push down
inflation,” he said. “Inflation has been running above the
target. The economy is still at an early stage of the recovery,
but we did take interest rates down to an exceptionally low
level last year. The question is to find the right level to
support the recovery.”  
 Business surveys, especially those run by the Confederation
of British Industry, are among reports that Sentance said he is
“particularly keen on” when considering the economy before
making an interest-rate decision.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        