-- BP Extends Gulf Well Tests Another 24 Hours, Plans to Resume Oil Capture
-- Katarzyna Klimasinska
-- 2010-07-17T23:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-17/bp-extends-gulf-well-tests-another-24-hours-plans-to-resume-oil-capture.html

          
          
             BP Plc will open its sealed Macondo
gusher in the Gulf of Mexico and channel oil to vessels on the
surface after extending tests on the well another 24 hours, the
U.S. government decided.  
 BP , based in London, stopped the flow of oil and began
testing on July 15 to look for damage. After reviewing two days
of data, BP found no evidence of hidden leaks,  Kent Wells , BP’s
senior vice president for exploration and production, said on a
conference call with reporters today.  
 National Incident Commander  Thad Allen  ordered the London-
based  company  today to do more monitoring, including additional
seismic mapping intended to detect oil leaking from the
seafloor.  
 “The test has provided us with valuable information which
will inform the procedure to kill the well and a better
understanding of options for temporary shut-in during a
hurricane,” Allen said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Relief wells that BP is drilling to plug the leak with mud
and cement next month remain the “ultimate step” in stopping
the spill, Allen said. BP plans to finish drilling the first
relief well this month and kill the gusher by mid-August.  
 BP had been considering whether the positive test results
would allow it to keep the well sealed, stopping the flow of oil
until the leak could be permanently plugged. Allen has said
consistently that it was “likely” the government would choose to
use BP’s new, tighter-fitting cap to resume capturing oil after
the tests.  
 More Oil Spilling  
 While the company eventually plans to reach collection
capacity of 80,000 barrels a day, more than the estimated size
of the leak, reopening the well would lead to some oil escaping
to the sea before the vessels are connected, Wells said today.  
 “Thad Allen wants to do containment because they want to
find out what the real flow rate was,”  Don Van Nieuwenhuise ,
director of Petroleum Geoscience Programs at the University of
Houston, said in an interview today. “Unless they do something
like that, they’ll almost never be able to prove what the true
flow rate was.”  
 More than 48 hours of data from pressure tests, seismic
surveys and temperature gauges indicate the structural integrity
of the well may be intact and the amount of oil in the reservoir
is being depleted after three months of flowing into the Gulf of
Mexico,  Wells  said.  
 Data Watching  
 “We feel more comfortable that we have integrity,” Wells
said. “We have a tremendous amount of monitoring going on, and
we’re very much focused on making sure that this test is run
perfectly. We’re watching every piece of data.”  
 Pressure inside the well rose slowly to 6,745 pounds per
square inch from 6,700 pounds per square inch at the start of
the day yesterday, an encouraging sign that the inside of the
well may have escaped damage following an April 20 explosion
aboard the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig, Wells said.  
 The current pressure is a little lower than the 7,500
pounds per square inch BP initially said would give it
confidence to declare the well sound.  
 The Macondo well has produced the biggest oil spill in U.S.
history, spewing 35,000 to 60,000 barrels of oil a day into the
Gulf, according to a U.S. government-led panel of scientists.  
 Allowing oil to flow from the well will make the final kill
procedure easier and safer, as it will lower the pressure in the
reservoir and make any potential hidden leaks less risky, Van
Nieuwenhuise said.  
 “They’re moving in a very careful and deliberate
direction,” he said.  
 Spill Damages  
 BP halted its dividends to shareholders, trimmed capital
spending and said it would sell $10 billion of assets over the
next year to help pay for damage caused by the spill. The
company also agreed under pressure from President  Barack Obama 
to establish a $20 billion escrow fund to compensate victims of
the spill.  
 With the well under control, Europe’s largest oil producer
may look to change leadership as it starts rebuilding its
reputation, management experts, industry analysts and investors
said.  
 Iain Conn , head of refining and marketing at BP and one of
the main executives under Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward ,
said June 29 Hayward is backed by the board and is not about to
resign.  
 Macondo well manager, Donald Vidrine, is scheduled to
testify next week at government hearings in Louisiana that are
investigating the cause of the disaster. Hours before the
explosion, Vidrine overruled objections from representatives of
rig owner Transocean about how to finish the well, Douglas
Brown, the chief mechanic on the vessel, told the joint
investigation panel in May. He’s scheduled to appear July 20.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Houston at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        