-- BP Well Tests Show No Signs of Damage After Stopping Oil Flow Into Gulf
-- Jim Polson
-- 2010-07-17T13:46:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-17/bp-well-tests-show-no-signs-of-damage-after-stopping-oil-flow-into-gulf.html

          
          
             BP Plc  said tests on its 
Macondo well show no evidence of damage that would prevent
the company from keeping the well sealed with equipment
installed earlier this week.  
 About 40 hours of data from pressure tests, seismic surveys
and temperature gauges indicate the structural integrity of the
well may be intact and the amount of oil in the reservoir is
being depleted after three months of flowing into the Gulf of
Mexico. There is no evidence of hidden leaks,  Kent Wells , BP’s
senior vice president for exploration and production, said on a
conference call with reporters today.  
 “We have a tremendous amount of monitoring going on, and
we’re very much focused on making sure that this test is run
perfectly. We’re watching every piece of data,” Wells said.
“We feel more comfortable that we have integrity.”  
 Pressure inside the well rose slowly to 6,745 pounds per
square inch from 6,700 pounds per square inch at the start of
the day yesterday, an encouraging sign that the inside of the
well may have escaped damage following an April 20 explosion
aboard the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig, Wells said.  
 BP  stopped the flow of oil to begin testing on the
afternoon of July 15. The company, based in London, may decide
to prolong the tests beyond the 48 hours initially planned,
Wells said.  
 Data Review  
 BP  and U.S. officials and scientists are reviewing the data
to decide whether to keep the cap sealed until the company
finishes drilling the relief wells that will be used to
permanently plug the leak with mud and cement next month.  
 National Incident Commander  Thad Allen  and his team will
decide how long the tests will continue and whether the cap can
remain sealed. Allen also may order BP to open the cap and let
oil and gas flow via pipelines to vessels on the sea surface
where it will be separated, stored and burned.  
 The company’s main goal in replacing the seals at the top
of the damaged well was to increase the amount of oil captured
if it begins flowing again, Allen said yesterday.  
 The new, tighter-fitting cap gives the company the ability
to collect as much as 80,000 barrels of oil a day, more than the
estimated flow rate. This compares with about 25,000 barrels of
oil captured with the previous system.  
 Relief Well  
 BP is making progress on a relief well that will
permanently end the risk of further oil escaping, Wells said.
The well may hit the leak this month and permanently plug it by
mid-August, he said.  
 The Macondo well has produced the biggest oil spill in U.S.
history, spewing 35,000 to 60,000 barrels of oil a day,
according to a U.S. government-led panel of scientists.  
 BP’s well manager, Donald Vidrine, is scheduled to testify
next week at government hearings in Louisiana that are
investigating the cause of the disaster. The Deepwater Horizon
Joint Investigation issued an e-mailed statement yesterday with
the witness lists. Witnesses also will include staff from
 Transocean Ltd.  and  Weatherford International Ltd.   
 Hours before the explosion, Vidrine overruled objections
from representatives of rig owner Transocean about how to finish
the well, Douglas Brown, the chief mechanic on the vessel, told
the joint investigation panel in May. He’s scheduled to appear
July 20.  
 The hearings next week will focus on operational decisions
for the rig, operational decisions by BP, and the design and
construction of the well, Coast Guard Petty Officer Tom Atkeson
said yesterday in an interview.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Houston at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net 
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        