-- Canada's Currency Loses to Dollar, Yen, Euro on Outlook for U.S. Growth
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-07-17T04:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-17/canada-s-currency-loses-to-dollar-yen-euro-on-outlook-for-u-s-growth.html

          
          
             Canada’s dollar weakened versus its
U.S. counterpart, the yen and the euro after economic data
showed the economic recovery in the nation’s largest trading
partner may be faltering.  
 The currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 2.3 percent against the
greenback this week as stocks and crude oil declined. The
Federal Reserve lowered forecasts for U.S. economic growth and
inflation. Analysts forecast the Bank of Canada will raise
interest rates for a second time in two months on July 20.  
 “The market doesn’t seem to be giving the Canadian dollar
much benefit from that probability,”  Bob Block , director of
foreign-exchange sales at Bank of Montreal, said by phone from
Toronto, referring to a rise in interest rates. “There’s a bit
of softer economic news out of the U.S., and the Canadian dollar
seems to be taking its cue from that.”  
 Canada’s currency depreciated to C$1.0582 yesterday in
Toronto, from C$1.0337 on July 9. It slid as much as 1.9 percent
yesterday, the most on an intraday basis since June 29. One
Canadian dollar buys 95.50 U.S. cents.  
 The loonie fell 4.5 percent in the week to C$1.3683 versus
the euro and dropped 4.6 percent to 81.81 yen.  
 “The market has been taking back its long dollars and
taking back its short euro,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of
foreign exchange at National Bank of Canada, said by phone from
Toronto, meaning traders are covering bets that the euro would
fall and the greenback would rise. “If euro continues to be
short covered, then euro-Canada is likely to go higher, which
will mean a sell of Canada,” he said.  
 Confidence Drops  
 Confidence among U.S. consumers slumped in July to the
lowest level in a year, signaling the biggest part of the
economy is losing momentum. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary index of consumer sentiment fell to 66.5 in
July from 76 a month earlier. The gauge was projected to decline
to 74, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of 62 economists.  
 The loonie fell against all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts this week as reports indicating a slowdown in
American manufacturing underscored the lower forecasts by the
Fed for economic growth and inflation.  
 Canada reported its merchandise trade deficit in May was
the biggest in eight months. The gap of C$503 million ($478
million) was the third consecutive shortfall, as imports of
machinery and equipment outpaced gains in exports, Statistics
Canada said July 13 in Ottawa. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
predicted a zero balance.  
 Oil Falls  
 Crude oil for August delivery fell 0.4 percent this week to
$75.80 a barrel in New York. Oil is Canada’s biggest export. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index tumbled 1.2 percent. Canada’s
currency is 64 percent correlated to movements in oil prices and
85 percent to fluctuations in the S&P 500, according to
Bloomberg data. A correlation of 100 percent would mean the
measures move in lockstep.  
 An interest-rate increase by the central bank is “a
foregone conclusion,” said National Bank’s Spitz. “And it’s
fully priced into the currency. The accompanying statement will
have a negative impact if it’s dovish.”  
 Policy makers said in a statement accompanying the June 1
decision that future moves would depend on the pace of growth in
Canada weighed against signs of an uneven global recovery.  
 Canadian government bonds advanced this week, with the  10-
year security ’s yield climbing 7 basis points to 3.16 percent.
The price of the 3.5 percent security maturing in June 2020 rose
56 cents to C$102.86.  
 Government bonds lost investors 0.8 percent this month as
of yesterday, according Bloomberg data. That’s the worst
performance among 26 countries whose sovereign debt is tracked
by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        