-- China's Fujian to Charge Zijin, Provincial Officials Over Mine Toxic Leak
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-17T08:20:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-17/china-s-fujian-to-charge-zijin-provincial-officials-over-mine-toxic-leak.html

          
          
             China’s Fujian province will take
legal action against government officials and executives of
 Zijin Mining Group Co. , the country’s largest gold producer,
accountable for a toxic leak from a copper mine, state-run
Xinhua News Agency said.  
 Police detained three Zijin managers on July 15 after waste
water from the plant poisoned 1,890 tons of fish at a waterway
near Shanghang county, home to half a million people. County
chief Qiu Heqing and top environmental official Chen Junan were
fired and two other officials were ordered to resign, Xinhua
 report  yesterday.  
 Operations at the copper plant must remain halted until it
meets safety and waste-management standards, Xinhua reported
today, citing a ruling by provincial officials yesterday. Zijin
must be punished and pay compensation for damages, the news
agency cited the Fujian government as saying.  
 A nine-day delay in disclosing the July 3 spill prompted
the China Securities Regulatory Commission to investigate. Zijin
fell 13 percent in  Shanghai  trading and 17 percent in  Hong Kong 
this week after the company reported the leak. It was the
second-worst performer on the Hang Seng China Enterprise Index.  
 Zijin will withstand the fallout from the pollution, even
as it has tarnished the company’s reputation, the 21st Century
Business Herald cited Chairman  Chen Jinghe  as saying in an
interview.  
 ‘Tremendous Impact’  
 “This has had a tremendous impact on the company,”
spokesman  Zhao Jugang  said today by mobile phone. The company
has disclosed relevant information and has no further comment,
he said, confirming the interview with Chen. Zhao couldn’t be
reached later to comment on the Xinhua report.  
 Chin’s government is making an example of Zijin as it seeks
to cut pollution and emissions from smelters, said analysts
including Guotai Junan Securities Co.’s  Owen Liang . Officials
tightened environmental standards in the past year and have
threatened to close industrial plants that fail to measure up.  
 Zijin shut the copper plant near the Zijinshan mine, its
biggest asset, pending completion of investigations. Copper
production at the mine accounts for about 15 percent of Zijin’s
annual production.  
 Heavy rain broke a plastic barrier in a waste pit, allowing
water containing copper acid to pollute the Ting River via an
illegally built drain, Shanghang officials said July 15.  
 Zijin, which initially blamed the rain for the spill,
failed to take corrective measures since September when the
Fujian government found the waste discharge into the river
contained copper acid exceeding a safety standard, the county
said after an investigation.  
 Legal Case  
 The province will pursue “executives of the perpetrator
company and relevant government officials in accordance with the
law,” according to Xinhua’s report today.  
 Environmental agencies have asked Zijin to conduct a
“complete overhaul” of existing mine and smelting plants to
prevent further leaks, the government said.  
 Zijin said yesterday it will invest 100 million yuan ($15
million) in a water plant the government is building near its
mine. That’s in addition to 200 million yuan it plans to spend
on environmental and risk measures within a year as part of its
restructuring plan after the incident.  
 The company may be fined as much as 500 million yuan for
the pollution, according to  Wu Kan , a Shanghai-based fund
manager at Dazhong Insurance Co. The regulatory probe will
probably focus on whether Zijin delayed disclosure of the
incident, he said.  
 Each month of disrupted production will cut Zijin’s copper
output by 1.7 percent and earnings by 0.9 percent,  Trina Chen , a
Hong Kong-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a
note on July 13.  
 Zijin posted a 2009  net income  of 3.6 billion yuan on sales
of 20 billion yuan, according to Bloomberg data.  
 -- William Bi ,  Xiao Yu . Editors:  Jim McDonald ,  Paul Tighe   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 William Bi  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7578 or
 wbi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        