-- Colombia Seeks OAS Meeting Over Marxist Guerrilla Presence in Venezuela
-- Matthew Bristow
-- 2010-07-17T22:05:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-17/colombia-seeks-oas-meeting-over-marxist-guerrilla-presence-in-venezuela.html

          
          
             Colombia requested a meeting of the
Organization of American States to discuss the alleged presence
of Marxist guerrillas in Venezuela.  
 “This request was preceded by innumerable failed efforts
to find a solution to this grave problem by direct dialogue with
Venezuela,” the government said in a  statement  on the
President’s website today.  
 On July 15, Colombia said it had satellite photos, videos
and intelligence from rebel deserters that proved several
guerrilla commanders are living in Venezuela. They include those
known by the aliases of Ivan Marquez and Timochenko, who are
members of the high command of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of
Colombia, or FARC.  
 Several leaders of the smaller National Liberation Army, or
ELN, also are in Venezuela, the Colombian government said.  
 Venezuela rejects the accusations and said it would expel
any FARC members discovered in the country, the Foreign Ministry
said yesterday in an  e-mailed statement . The country will recall
its ambassador from Colombia for consultations.  
 Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  said he won’t attend the
inauguration of  Juan Manuel Santos , Colombia’s president-elect,
and may stop importing Colombian goods if the accusations
continue, Chavez said in comments carried by state television
yesterday.  
 “If Colombia continues with its madness, I will cut ties
with the government in the coming hours,” Chavez said. “If
this continues, trade will become zero. We won’t buy anything
from Colombia.”  
 Chavez has repeatedly sparred with Colombian President
 Alvaro Uribe  over the U.S. military presence in Colombia and
other issues, leading to a freeze in relations and a plunge in
trade.  
 Exports to Venezuela by Colombia fell 69 percent in May,
compared with the same period a year ago. Before relations
soured, Venezuela was Colombia’s biggest export market after the
U.S.  
 Chavez said that cutting ties would hinder his efforts to
re-establish them with the new Colombian government that takes
power Aug. 7.  
 “I ask Santos to distance himself from Uribe,” Chavez
said. “It’s his first test.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Bristow  in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        