-- Telefonica Drops $9.2 Billion Offer for Portugal Telecom's Stake in Vivo
-- Paul Tobin
-- 2010-07-17T14:04:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-17/telefonica-says-offer-for-stake-in-vivo-expired-rejects-extension-request.html

          
          
             Telefonica SA  abandoned a 7.15
billion-euro ($9.2 billion) offer for  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA ’s
stake in Brazil’s largest wireless operator, raising the
prospect of a protracted legal battle.  
 Spain’s biggest phone company refused a request by Portugal
Telecom to extend a deadline for considering the bid, which
expired yesterday. Telefonica may now ask a Dutch court to break
up Brasilcel NV, the 50-50 venture that controls  Vivo
Participacoes SA , said a person with direct knowledge of the
matter, who asked not to be identified as legal proceedings
haven’t started.  
 Telefonica raised its offer for the stake twice in the past
two months, bidding almost  Portugal Telecom’s entire market
value  to boost its Brazilian business. The Portuguese government
then blocked the deal, even after a majority of shareholders
accepted it, calling the holding “strategic.”  
 “Telefonica had to draw a line somewhere,” said  Robin Bienenstock , a London-based analyst at Sanford C Bernstein.
“The rational thing for them to do would be to aggressively
seek the dissolution of Brasilcel.”  
 A spokesman for Portugal Telecom couldn’t immediately be
reached for comment.  
 “Telefonica has tried its best to reach a deal and it
hasn’t been possible,”  Miguel Angel Garzon , a spokesman for
Madrid-based Telefonica, said in a phone interview. “From now
on, Telefonica will go its own way.”  
 Twice Sweetened  
 Telefonica began its takeover attempt May 6 with a 5.7
billion-euro offer it called “fair, full and final.” It raised
the offer twice to win over investors. About 74 percent of the
shareholders present at a June 30 meeting in Lisbon approved the
most recent bid.  
 Chairman  Cesar Alierta  said July 13 that his company would
stick to a deadline of its offer for Portugal Telecom’s stake in
Brasilcel, which owns 60 percent of Vivo.  
 “The offer, in accordance with its terms and conditions,
expired on July 16,” according to a copy of a faxed letter from
Telefonica to Lisbon-based Portugal Telecom published today in a
regulatory filing. Portugal Telecom had asked for an extension
to July 28.  
 The Portuguese government blocked the offer as it
maintained power over the former state monopoly by controlling
500 class A shares with the right to appoint a third of the
board and to veto capital increases, bond sales and  dividend 
payments. Portugal had sold its common shares in the country’s
largest phone company by 2000.  
 Vivendi, America Movil  
 The European Court of Justice on July 8 said the government
doesn’t have veto rights at Portugal Telecom, the country’s
largest phone company. Portugal said it will alter its special
rights in the company to comply with the ruling.  
 Telefonica wants to combine Vivo’s mobile-phone network
with Telecomunicacoes de  Sao Paulo SA , or Telesp, the Spanish
company’s fixed-line unit in Brazil.  
 The Spanish company, which competes in Brazil with Vivendi
SA and America Movil SAB, controlled by Mexican billionaire
 Carlos Slim , is seeking to bolster Telesp. The fixed-line phone
company reported a 1.4 percent decline in first-quarter sales in
local-currency terms.  
 Telefonica and Portugal Telecom have sought growth in
Brazil as markets at home cooled. Vivo had 30 percent of
Brazil’s 185 million wireless subscriptions at the end of June,
according to Anatel, the country’s phone regulator.  
 Portugal Telecom  fell  4.5 percent to 8.05 euros in Lisbon
trading on July 16. Telefonica dropped 1.6 percent to 16.17
euros on the Madrid exchange.  
 “I think any Portugal Telecom-Telefonica deal is now off
the table for a while,” said Sanford C Bernstein’s Bienenstock,
who rates  Telefonica  shares “market perform” and Portugal
Telecom “underperform.”  
 For Related News and Information:
Peer product comparison: TEF SM &lt;Equity&gt; PPC &lt;GO&gt;
Relative value graph: TEF SM &lt;EQUITY&gt; RVG &lt;GO&gt;
Telefonica dividend history: TEF SM &lt;Equity&gt; DVD &lt;GO&gt;
Analyst estimates: TEF SM &lt;Equity&gt; EEB &lt;GO&gt;
Today’s top technology stories: TTOP &lt;GO&gt;  
 -- With assistance from  Anabela Reis  in Lisbon. Editors:  Kenneth Wong ,  Heather Harris   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Tobin  in Madrid at 
 ptobin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        