-- Gillard Calls Australian General Election After Ending Mining Standoff
-- Marion Rae
-- 2010-07-17T02:52:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-17/gillard-calls-australian-general-election-after-ending-mining-standoff.html

          
          
             Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  called a general election less than a month after she
became the nation’s first female leader and settled a dispute
with mining companies that propelled her to office.  
 Gillard, 48, called the ballot for Aug. 21, betting the
ruling Labor Party’s record of delivering growth during the
global financial crisis will help ensure re-election. Her ouster
of former Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  restored the party’s lead in
opinion polls over  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National coalition.  
 “I want to keep the economy strong so people can enjoy the
benefits of work,” Gillard told reporters in Canberra today.
“We do not have to be afraid of the future, we can master big
challenges like climate change together.”  
 The election will determine whether resources companies led
by  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and Rio Tinto Ltd. pay higher taxes, a
policy championed by Rudd and diluted by Gillard to win their
support. Abbott, bidding to make Labor the first one-term
government in 80 years, pledged not to adopt the tax, describing
it as a punishment for the nation’s most profitable industry.  
 “It would defy recent history if the coalition were to
defeat Labor: the last time we had a one-term government was
during the Great Depression,” said  Nick Economou , a political
scientist at Monash University in Melbourne. “It’s going to be
close. The government will probably just fall over the line.”  
 Voter surveys indicate a close race. Labor’s support fell
three percentage points to 52 percent in a Nielsen poll
published July 12, compared with when Gillard had just taken
power. The coalition rose three points to 48 percent.  
 Gillard’s Compromise  
 Gillard on July 2 announced an agreement with resources
companies on a reduced mining levy for a country that is the
world’s biggest shipper of coal, iron ore and alumina. She
scaled back the planned tax to 30 percent of coal and iron ore
earnings from 40 percent on all resource profits.  
 The election will also be fought on climate-change policies
and management of Australia’s A$1.2 trillion ($1 trillion)
economy. Gillard said last week the economy is the foundation of
her re-election campaign. She also reaffirmed the central bank’s
annual  inflation  target of 2 percent to 3 percent. The
Australian dollar is the third-best performer among the world’s
16-most traded currencies during the past decade, gaining about
50 percent against the dollar.  
 The  economy  expanded for a fifth straight quarter in the
three months ended March 31 as government stimulus spending
helped boost consumer demand amid the Group of 20’s most
aggressive interest-rate increases. The Reserve Bank of
Australia has increased the  benchmark  rate six times to 4.5
percent since early October from a half-century low of 3 percent.  
 China Demand  
 Central bank policy makers expect economic growth to almost
double in the next two years as China’s demand for resources
spurs a  mining  investment boom. China is Australia’s biggest
trading partner, with two-way trade worth A$85.1 billion in 2009.  
 Gillard said the government will review plans for a carbon-
trading system in 2012, and that the market should set the price
for carbon. Labor also wants to generate 20 percent of the
nation’s energy from renewable sources like wind, solar and
geothermal projects by 2020.  
 Abbott, 52, opposes any form of carbon tax and proposes an
A$1 billion emissions reduction fund to give  companies 
incentives to cut pollutants 5 percent by 2020. The coalition
plans to establish a 15,000-strong “green army” to repair and
restore the environment.  
 Abbott in December became the coalition’s third leader
since the 2007 election because of a party dispute over whether
to support Rudd’s climate plans.  
 Immigration Policy  
 Immigration will also feature in the six-week election
campaign after the number of asylum seekers arriving by boat
jumped to 3,768 so far this year from 2,726 for 2009,
immigration department figures show.  
 Gillard has vowed to open a regional center to process
asylum seekers to curb the rising number of refugees from
Southeast Asia arriving by sea. She came under fire for
suggesting East Timor should house the refugee center before
fully negotiating the plan with officials from that country.
East Timor’s parliament on July 12 rejected having the facility
there in a unanimous vote, the Australian Broadcasting Corp.
said.  
 Rudd ended  John Howard ’s almost 12-year rule in November
2007. He withdrew Australian troops from Iraq, abolished the
unpopular Work Choices labor laws, ratified the Kyoto treaty on
climate change and offered the nation’s first apology to
Aborigines taken from their families between 1910 and 1970 for
assimilation with the white community.  
 Welsh Roots  
 Gillard, who emigrated from Wales when she was four after
she contracted bronchial pneumonia, replaced Rudd after party
factions and key labor unions switched their allegiance.  
 Abbott is a Rhodes Scholar who won two boxing Blues while
studying at Oxford University. He was, under Howard, employment
minister between 2001 and 2003 and then health minister until
2007.  
 He won the leadership of the Liberal Party in December last
year, ousting  Malcolm Turnbull , a former  Goldman  Sachs Group Inc.
executive, when party lawmakers rejected Turnbull’s support for
Rudd’s climate plan.  
 Labor has 83 lawmakers in the 150-member House of
Representatives, compared with 63 Liberal-National coalition
members, according to the parliament’s  Web site . There are four
independents.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net ;
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        