-- Investor Group Led by Former Bank of America Executive Buys Three Lenders
-- Dakin Campbell
-- 2010-07-17T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-17/investor-group-led-by-former-bank-of-america-executive-buys-three-lenders.html

          
          
             North American Financial Holdings
Inc., run by former Bank of America Corp. investment-banking
head  Gene Taylor , bought three lenders as U.S. failures this
year rose to 96.  
 North American, based in Charlotte, North Carolina,
purchased two failed banks in Florida and one in South Carolina,
according to statements posted yesterday on the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp.’s  website . Three other banks were seized,
including one in Michigan, costing the FDIC’s deposit-insurance
fund a total of $334.8 million.  
 North American is one of two groups backed by private
investors that have purchased failed banks through the FDIC’s
resolution process this year. Through June, the FDIC had awarded
only three of 86 failed banks to private investors. All three
were purchased by Premier American Bank, backed by Bond Street
Holdings LLC.  
 Regulators may close the most banks this year since 1992 as
souring residential and commercial mortgages impair capital
levels. The FDIC included 775 banks with $431 billion in assets
on the confidential list of problem lenders as of March 31, an
increase from 702 banks with $402.8 billion at the end of the
fourth quarter. FDIC Chairman  Sheila Bair  has said 2010 failures
will surpass last year’s total of 140.  
 North American purchased the banks through its newly
chartered lender, NAFH National Bank. The bank purchased Miami’s
Metro Bank of Dade County, Turnberry Bank of Aventura, Florida,
and Spartanburg, South Carolina-based First National Bank of the
South. NAFH added 23 branches and $1.2 billion in deposits.  
 Acquiring Banks  
 North American is seeking to deploy $900 million of capital
raised for bank purchases. Last month, it agreed to pay $175
million to acquire Florida-based TIB Financial Corp.  
 Taylor worked at Bank of America for 38 years, including
stints heading its Florida business and most recently as head of
commercial and investment banking, reporting to then-CEO  Kenneth Lewis . Other longtime Bank of America executives are backing the
effort, including former CEO  Hugh McColl Jr . and finance chief
 Marc Oken  through their Charlotte, North Carolina-based
investment firm Falfurrias Capital Partners.  
 In other closings, the Office of Thrift Supervision seized
 Woodlands Bank  of Bluffton, South Carolina, which was sold by
regulators to Bank of the Ozarks in Little Rock, Arkansas. The
buyer picked up eight branches and about $376 million in assets.  
 Regulators also closed Mainstreet Savings Bank of Hastings,
Michigan and Clewiston, Florida-based Olde Cypress Community
Bank. Both held less than $170 million in assets, according to
the FDIC. Regulators have closed 17 Florida banks this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        