-- Mitchell to Meet Arab Leaders After Separate Talks With Abbas, Netanyahu
-- Jonathan Ferziger
-- 2010-07-17T19:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-17/mitchell-to-meet-arab-leaders-after-separate-talks-with-abbas-netanyahu.html

          
          
             U.S. envoy  George Mitchell  said he
will consult with a range of Middle East leaders in the coming
week after shuttling between Palestinian Authority
President  Mahmoud Abbas  and Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu .  
 Mitchell said his meeting with Abbas today in the West Bank
city of Ramallah was “very candid and productive.” He met
yesterday with Netanyahu in Jerusalem to start the latest round
of U.S.-mediated indirect talks aimed at restarting face-to-face
peace negotiations.  
 “We recognize the difficulties and the complexities
involved in trying to realize this mission, but we are
determined to continue our efforts,” Mitchell told reporters.
Neither Abbas nor chief Palestinian negotiator  Saeb Erakat , who
accompanied Mitchell to his car, made a public statement.  
 Mitchell’s return to the region follows Netanyahu’s July 6
White House visit with President  Barack Obama , in which the two
leaders expressed hope that direct Israeli-Palestinian talks
could be started in the next two months. Mitchell said he will
tour nearby capitals to discuss a broader peace agreement
between Israel and Arab nations. He didn’t specify whom he plans
to meet.  
 Erakat has said Abbas won’t meet Netanyahu for peace talks
until Israel freezes all Jewish settlement construction in the
West Bank. Netanyahu declared a limited 10-month moratorium on
building in settlements last November that is set to expire
Sept. 26. The freeze excluded public buildings, such as
kindergartens, and some 3,000 housing units that previously
received government approval.  
 Obama said after the meeting with Netanyahu that he hopes
Abbas will enter direct negotiations before the Israeli
construction moratorium expires.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        