-- Ivory Coast Cocoa Production Will Climb to 1.3 Million Tons, ICO Forecasts
-- Monica Mark
-- 2010-07-17T08:33:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-17/ivory-coast-cocoa-production-will-climb-to-1-3-million-tons-ico-forecasts.html

          
          
             Cocoa production in Ivory Coast will
rise to 1.3 million metric tons in the year through September
2011 as higher prices prompt growers to invest in their farms,
the  International Cocoa Organization  said.  
 Aging orchards, poor infrastructure and instability have
curbed growth in the world’s biggest producer of Cocoa over the
past few years,  Jan Vingerhoets , head of the group, said at a
press conference late yesterday in Abidjan.  
 The West African country produced 1.16 million tons in the
12 months through September 2009, down 16 percent from the
previous year, according to statistics from the country’s Bourse
du Cafe et du Cacao.  
 “We believe it would take three to four years for
production in Ivory Coast to return to normal growth rates,”
Vingerhoets said.  
 Investment and proposed reforms to the industry have been
held back amid repeated failures to hold elections due since
2005, following an accord signed between leaders in the rebel-
held north and government-controlled south.  
 Global prices for cocoa could continue to move around
record prices of $3,000 a ton, which would allow farmers to
reinvest increased revenue in production, Vingerhoets said.  
 Speaking beside  Jean-Marc Anga , the organization’s director
of statistics who is due to take over as president Oct. 1,
Vingerhoets said global grinding figures will probably grow 4
percent to 5 percent in the cocoa year that finishes in
September.  
 Global exports may rise by 6 percent in the season, while
consumption could increase 2 percent to 3 percent in the period
assuming normal weather patterns, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Monica Mark  in Abidjan via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        