-- Nigeria Plans to Encourage Oil Companies to List on Local Stock Exchange
-- Vincent Nwanma
-- 2010-07-17T08:35:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-17/nigeria-plans-to-encourage-oil-companies-to-list-on-local-stock-exchange.html

          
          
             Nigeria will encourage large
companies operating in the country to list their shares on the
local stock exchange, said  Arunma Oteh , director general of the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 The addition of foreign companies in industries such as
oil-exploration and production would diversify the Nigerian
stock exchange, Oteh told reporters in Lagos yesterday. She was
accompanied by Minister of Finance  Olusegun Aganga  and Fola
Daniel, the Commissioner for Insurance.  
 Banks make up about 60 percent of  Nigeria’s stock market  in
terms of their weighting, according to  Sebastian Spio-Garbrah ,
chief executive officer of New York-based DaMina Advisors. The
market fell 34 percent last year following a banking crisis
after margin loans to speculators and operators in the oil and
gas industry led to mounting bad debts.  
 Nigeria will issue new guidelines on margin lending in
August, “which will ensure that the kind of experience we had
will not happen again,” Oteh said. The 2009 debt crisis left
the country’s lenders with toxic assets of about $10 billion,
Spio-Garbrah estimated a year ago while working as an analyst at
Eurasia Group.  
 To avoid a repeat of the crisis, SEC must enforce its 385
rules, Aganga said. “It is not enough to have 385 rules; what
is more important is to have a means to ensure that people obey
these rules,” he said.  
 Nigeria will target double-digit annual growth in real
gross domestic growth, Aganga said. Nigeria achieved growth of
7.2 percent in real terms in the first quarter, compared with
4.5 percent a year earlier. The economy is doing well, “but we
know as a country with great potential, we can do better,” he
said.  
 For Related News and Information:
Top African Stories: AFTO &lt;GO&gt;
On the Nigerian Economy: TNI NIGERIA ECO &lt;GO&gt;
To See Nigerian All-Share Index’s Moving Stocks:
NGSEINDX &lt;INDEX&gt; MOV &lt;GO&gt;
Most Read African Stories: MNI AFRICA &lt;GO&gt;
Nigerian Money-Market Monitor: BTMM NG &lt;GO&gt;  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vincent Nwanma  in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        