-- Obama Calls On Senate Republicans to Stop Blocking Unemployment Extension
-- Nicholas Johnston
-- 2010-07-17T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-17/obama-calls-on-senate-republicans-to-stop-blocking-unemployment-extension.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  called on
Republicans to stop blocking legislation in the U.S. Senate
extending unemployment benefits and to support measures making
it easier for small businesses to expand.  
 In his weekly address on radio and the Internet, Obama
criticized Senate Republicans for preventing action on another
extension of long-term  unemployment  benefits that millions of
Americans rely on to pay their bills.  
 “Think about what these stalling tactics mean for the
millions of Americans who’ve lost their jobs since the recession
began,” he said. “For many, it was the only way to make ends
meet while searching for work.”  
 Republicans on June 30 blocked Senate action on extending
the benefits because the cost would be added to the government’s
$1.5 trillion budget  deficit . They offered to back a benefits
extension if the costs were offset by taking money from last
year’s economic stimulus legislation.  
 Obama said Congress has previously treated unemployment
benefits as an “emergency expenditure” and that the current
Congress should do the same because the U.S. is recovering from
an “economic disaster.”  
 “The fact is, most economists agree that extending
unemployment insurance is one of the single most cost-effective
ways to help jumpstart the economy,” he said. “It puts money
into the pockets of folks who not only need it most, but who
also are most likely to spend it quickly.”  
 Unemployment Benefits  
 Obama said more than 2 million people have had their
unemployment benefits expire during the past several weeks.  
 The economy lost 125,000 workers in June while adding
83,000 private-sector jobs, fewer than forecast. The
unemployment rate fell to 9.5 percent and has exceeded 9 percent
since May 2009.  
 Obama said Congress should help small businesses create
jobs by acting on proposals to eliminate some capital gains
taxes on investments, to create a fund to help small lenders
offer loans to small businesses and to enhance successful Small
Business Administration programs  
 “We need to take new, commonsense steps to help small
businesses, grow our economy, and create jobs,” he said. “And
we need to take them now.”  
 Republican Address  
 In the Republican address, Kansas Senator  Pat Roberts  said
Obama shouldn’t have bypassed the Senate to appoint Donald
Berwick as administrator of the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services, the agency that administers health programs
for the elderly and low-income Americans.  
 Obama put Berwick in the job on July 7 using a recess
appointment, a procedure that lets the president fill positions
without Senate confirmation when Congress isn’t meeting.
Lawmakers were on a weeklong break for the Independence Day
holiday.  
 “Without a public confirmation hearing on Dr. Berwick’s
nomination, the Senate and the American people do not have the
opportunity to learn about the man who will control one-third of
all  health-care spending  in America,” Roberts said. “This
flies in the face of what was promised to be the most
transparent administration in our nation’s history.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        