-- Pound Declines Against Euro for Third Week as U.K. Economic Growth Slows
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-07-17T06:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-17/pound-declines-against-euro-for-third-week-as-u-k-economic-growth-slows.html

          
          
             The pound fell against the euro for
a third week, the longest losing streak since March, amid signs
the euro area will contain the Greek debt crisis while the U.K.
economic expansion slows.  
 Sterling traded at its weakest level versus the single
currency since June 1 as sales of Spanish bonds and Greek bills
stoked optimism that European economies will control their
budget deficits. British house prices are set to drop through
2012 as the government cuts spending, Capital Economics Ltd.
said yesterday, after data showing declines in June. The pound
rose versus the dollar on signs of weaker growth in the U.S.  
 “The risk premium for the euro is being reduced and there
is scope for euro-sterling to come up from current levels,”
said  Henrik Gullberg , a currency strategist at Deutsche Bank AG
in London. “The other side of euro strength is dollar
weakness.”  
 Sterling dropped 0.8 percent to 84.44 pence per euro as of
3:55 p.m. in London yesterday after trading as high as 84.59
pence. The U.K. currency advanced 1.8 percent against the dollar
to $1.5334.  
 The  yield  on the 10-year gilt rose two basis points to 3.36
percent from 3.34 percent on July 9.  
 The pound has lost 2 percent this year versus its
developed-world counterparts, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, amid concern the nation won’t
manage to control its budget deficit without harming growth.  
 House Prices  
 The number of real-estate agents and surveyors saying house
prices rose exceeded those reporting declines by 9 percentage
points in June, compared with a reading of 21 points in May, the
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors said. Consumer
confidence fell to its lowest level in a year, Nationwide
Building Society said last week.  
 Data to be published on July 23 may show second-quarter
gross domestic product in the U.K. rose 0.6 percent, after a 0.3
percent gain in the first quarter, according to the median
estimate of 32 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, potentially
easing concern of slower economic growth.  
 Gilts returned 6.1 percent so far this year, compared with
a profit of 6.5 percent for German bunds and a gain of 6 percent
for U.S. Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        