-- Shallow-Water Drilling Delay May Be Near End, Hercules Offshore's Noe Says
-- Jeff Plungis
-- 2010-07-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-17/shallow-water-drilling-delay-may-be-near-end-hercules-offshore-s-noe-says.html

          
          
             Shallow-water drilling companies
hope a meeting with the U.S. Interior Department will help end
delays in approval of new permits,  Hercules Offshore Inc. 
executive  Jim Noe  said.  
 “We are hopeful that today was a solid first step in
resolving this issue and getting shallow-water drilling rigs
back to drilling new wells,” Noe, senior vice president and
general counsel of Hercules, said in a statement after meeting
yesterday with  Michael Bromwich , director of the  Bureau of Ocean
Energy Management , Regulation and Enforcement.  
 Drilling company executives have said Interior Department
rules issued in response to the  BP Plc  oil spill have brought
exploration in shallow waters to a halt. Obama administration
officials have said a ban imposed after the spill in the Gulf of
Mexico applies solely to deep-water operations.  
 Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  announced a revised deep-
water drilling moratorium July 12, saying the oil industry
needed to “raise the bar” in stopping new leaks and
demonstrate that blowouts can be prevented.  
 Senator  Mary Landrieu , a Louisiana Democrat, Louisiana
Lieutenant Governor  Scott Angelle  and Kurt Hoffman, senior vice
president and chief operating officer of  Seahawk Drilling Inc. 
also attended the meeting with Bromwich, Noe said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s Washington offices.  
 Permits Pending  
 In a statement yesterday, the Interior Department said nine
shallow-water drilling requests are pending while regulators
evaluate their compliance with rules on how companies would
respond to a worst-case blowout scenario.  
 Seventeen of 36 applications for permits not subject to the
worst-case requirement, such as sidetrack and bypass wells, have
been approved, the department said.  
 The meeting with industry was part of an effort to make
sure regulators “have the best information as we work to ensure
that drilling is done right, done safely, and that communities
and the environment are protected,” Bromwich, who took over a
regulatory agency that was revamped and renamed after the spill,
said in the statement.  
 He said he discussed steps drillers can take to implement
new safety standards effectively and quickly. Interior
Department officials also met with environmental groups,
according to the statement.  
 Before the BP spill that begin with an explosion on a rig
on April 20, the Interior Department was approving 10 to 15
shallow-water drilling permits a week for new wells, Noe said.
Hercules and Seahawk are the two biggest operators of drilling
rigs in the Gulf’s shallow waters, he said.  
 Original Moratorium  
 The administration’s original moratorium on deep-water
drilling barred operations more than 500 feet below the sea, a
distinction that was called arbitrary by U.S. District Judge
 Martin Feldman  when he overturned the ban on June 22.  
 The new version applies to wells using subsea or surface
blowout preventers on a floating facility. Some shallow-water
drilling rigs float, leaving open the possibility that they will
be affected too, Noe said.  
 Of the 50 shallow-water rigs in the Gulf of Mexico, 19 are
idle because of the difficulty of getting permits, Noe said.
That number is expected to increase to 27 by the end of August,
he said. Each drilling rig directly employs about 100 workers,
30 workers from associated contractors and spends $500,000 per
month on equipment, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Plungis  in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        