-- Slim's Inbursa, Televisa Sell Their 25% Stakes in Mexican Airline Volaris
-- Crayton Harrison
-- 2010-07-17T01:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-17/slim-s-inbursa-televisa-sell-their-25-stakes-in-mexican-airline-volaris.html

          
          
             Grupo Televisa SA  and billionaire
 Carlos Slim ’s Grupo Financiero Inbursa SAB sold their 25 percent
stakes in Mexican low-cost airline Volaris after almost five
years as co-investors.  
 A group of investors including  Pedro Aspe  and Emilio Diez
Barroso Azcarraga bought the stakes, Volaris said today in a
statement. Televisa said in a separate release that it received
$80.6 million for its holding. Inbursa got the same amount,
according to a person familiar with the transaction, who
declined to be identified because the information isn’t public.  
 Volaris, Mexico’s third-largest airline, is struggling to
retain  market share  against low-fare units of Grupo Aeromexico
SA and Grupo Mexicana de Aviacion SA. Volaris’s share of
domestic flights fell to 14 percent in May from 15 percent a
year earlier, according to the government. Discovery Americas
II, a private equity fund representing Mexican pension funds,
paid 111 million pesos ($8.58 million) for an undisclosed stake
in the airline, according to a Mexican stock exchange filing.  
 “It’s a world-class operator that’s extremely profitable
and competitively positioned against anybody in Mexico,” said
 Harry Krensky , managing partner of Discovery Americas, a
private-equity firm related to the Discovery Americas II fund.  
 Volaris has remained profitable while its larger rivals
have lost money trying to compete with low fares, Krensky said
in a phone interview. Inbursa and Televisa were “fantastic
partners in this company, who helped us tremendously,” he said.  
 Televisa, controlled by billionaire  Emilio Azcarraga ,
controls Mexican cable-television operators that are competing
for Internet and phone subscribers with Slim’s  Telefonos de
Mexico SAB . Inbursa, Slim’s financial-services firm, held its
Volaris stake through Sinca Inbursa, a private investment fund.  
 El Salvador’s Taca airline, which came under the control of
the parent company of Colombian airline Aerovias del Continente
Americano SA last year, holds 25 percent of Volaris. The rest is
owned by a group of private investors.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Crayton Harrison  in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        