-- Spanish, Portuguese Bonds Gain as Sales Spark Search for Higher-Yield Debt
-- Lukanyo Mnyanda
-- 2010-07-17T06:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-17/spanish-portuguese-bonds-gain-as-sales-spark-search-for-higher-yield-debt.html

          
          
             Spanish and Portuguese bonds rose
relative to their German counterparts after successful debt
sales stoked demand for higher-yielding alternatives to bunds,
amid optimism that Europe’s sovereign debt crisis is easing.  
 Spanish bonds surged yesterday, propelling the two-year
note yield to the lowest since May 28, while the similar German
securities yielded the most in more than two months. Spain met
the maximum set at an offering of 15-year securities on July 15,
a day after Portugal sold more debt than it had previously
indicated. Greece sold 26-week securities this week at an
interest rate below the 5 percent charged by the European Union
for its rescue package.  
 “The market is becoming a bit more comfortable about how
this overall risk within the sovereign space will play out,”
said  Michael Markovic , a senior fixed-income strategist at
Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich. “For us it’s a continuing
stabilization story, and that explains why we’ve had this
underperformance of German safe-haven assets.”  
 Spain’s two-year bond yield fell 41 basis points in the
week to 2.4 percent as of 4:43 p.m. in London yesterday. That
pushed the extra yield, or spread, that investors demand to hold
the notes instead of two-year German notes down to 153 basis
points, the least since May 19. The two-year German note yield
was little changed on the week at 0.77 percent after climbing
yesterday to 0.81 percent, the most since May 3.  
 German banks are borrowing less money from the European
Central Bank, Boersen-Zeitung reported yesterday, citing a
Bundesbank presentation.  
 Greek Bill Sale  
 Greece, which sparked Europe’s debt crisis in October when
a new government said the budget deficit was more than twice the
previous administration’s estimate, sold 1.625 billion euros
($2.1 billion) of 26-week bills on July 13. The notes were sold
at a yield of 4.65 percent and investors bid for 3.64 times the
amount offered.  
 The Greek  two-year yield  fell 49 basis points to 9.88
percent yesterday. Portugal’s two-year yield dropped 19 basis
points to 3.3 percent, while that on Italian notes fell 12 basis
points to 1.8 percent. The Italian notes yielded 102 basis
points more than similar maturity German notes, down from 136
basis points two weeks earlier.  
 Bunds, boosted earlier this year as investors sought a
haven from the sovereign-debt crisis, are paring gains that
pushed the 10-year German yield to a record low of 2.5 percent
on June 8.  
 Bund Returns  
 German debt has returned 6.5 percent this year through July
15, compared with 6 percent for U.S. Treasuries and 6.1 percent
for U.K. gilts, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts’ Societies.
Spanish bonds lost 1.5 percent, the indexes show. Greek debt
securities have lost investors 18 percent.  
 Losses by bunds may be limited next week before reports
economists say will show growth in Europe’s services and
manufacturing industries slowed this month. Another report may
show industrial orders in the nations that share the euro fell
in May, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  
 “We’ve had a couple of successful auctions but it’s still
early days,” said  Elwin de Groot , a senior market economist at
Rabobank Groep in Utrecht, Netherlands. “From a longer-term
perspective, we can argue that bund yields are extremely low,
but the momentum for risk assets is just not strong enough and
there’s a lot of uncertainty.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        