-- U.S. Bill Is `Embargo' on Democratic Republic of Congo, Mineral Group Says
-- Michael J. Kavanagh
-- 2010-07-17T11:40:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-17/u-s-bill-is-embargo-on-democratic-republic-of-congo-mineral-group-says.html

          
          
             A U.S. bill aimed at preventing
armed groups from enriching themselves and funding conflict
through the sale of minerals is effectively an embargo on the
 Democratic Republic of Congo , according to an industry group.  
 “We are totally shocked by the passing of this bill which
is in spirit an embargo on materials from DRC and adjoining
countries,” said John Kanyoni, head of the Association of
Mineral Exporters in Congo’s eastern North Kivu province.  
 An amendment to the financial reform bill, passed by the
Senate July 15, requires companies buying coltan, cassiterite,
wolframite and gold from Congo and its neighbors to certify the
purchases aren’t funding armed groups. War in Congo killed more
than 3 million people from 1998 to 2007, says the International
Rescue Committee, and rebels still roam the mineral-rich east of
the country.  
 The demands of the bill are infeasible, Kanyoni wrote
yesterday in an open letter to the U.S. embassy’s economic
consular in Congo. The requirements will also undermine efforts
to increase transparency in the trade, he said.  
 Congo is Africa’s largest producer of cassiterite, or tin
ore, making up 6 percent of world output. It’s also home to the
biggest undeveloped gold deposit on the continent, held by a
joint venture between  Randgold Resources Ltd.  and  AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd . More than 80 percent of the country’s gold trade is
unregistered, according to mines ministry estimates.  
 Minerals from the nine countries adjoining Congo, including
Angola, Tanzania, Rwanda and Uganda, also require certification
that they are “DRC conflict free,” according to the bill.  
 Human Rights  
 Activists and humanitarian groups applauded the amendment,
which gives the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission nine
months to come up with an implementation plan. U.K.-based Global
Witness called the bill’s passage a “breakthrough against
conflict and corruption,” according to an e-mailed statement.
U.S.-based Catholic Relief Services said on its website that the
bill was a “huge victory for those ravaged by conflict.”  
 “The world moved a step closer to ensuring that the supply
chains for our laptops and cell phones do not finance violence
in eastern Congo,” John Prendergast, co-founder of the U.S.-
based Enough Project, said in an e-mailed statement July 15.  
 The New York-based Jewelers of America trade group was
“very concerned” the bill “could encourage jewelry companies to
avoid trading in gold from the region, in order to bypass the
issue completely,” it said yesterday on its website.  
 The amendment, introduced by Senator  Sam Brownback  (R-KS),
is expected to be signed into law by President  Barack Obama  next
week along with the financial reform bill.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Kavanagh  in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        