-- Yankee Old Timers Remember George Steinbrenner, Bob Sheppard Before Game
-- Erik Matuszewski
-- 2010-07-18T00:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-17/yankee-old-timers-remember-george-steinbrenner-bob-sheppard-before-game.html

          
          
             Ron Guidry  and Mickey Rivers were
among the former New York Yankees to remember late owner  George Steinbrenner  and longtime public address announcer  Bob Sheppard 
during the team’s Old Timers Day celebration.  
 The Yankees yesterday showed a video tribute to
Steinbrenner and had a moment of silence at Yankee Stadium for
both men prior to their first game since Major League
Baseball’s All-Star break.  
 The team had video tributes to Sheppard before and during
today’s 10-5 loss to the Tampa Bay Rays, which was preceded by
the annual Old Timers Game, a two-inning exhibition that
showcases former Yankee players such as Guidry, Rivers, Rich
“Goose” Gossage, Reggie  Jackson ,  Whitey Ford  and  Bucky Dent .  
 “You’re happy to be here, but deep down you know there’s
something missing,” Guidry, who played all 14 of his seasons
with the Yankees, said in a televised interview. “Two people
who were so instrumental in the Yankee tradition are not here,
so they’re going to be missed. Not having them here is a
letdown because they enjoyed today just as much as we did.”  
 Yankees Hall of Fame catcher  Yogi Berra  missed the 64th
Old Timers Day festivities because of injuries sustained in a
fall last night near his house in Montclair, New Jersey. Berra,
85, is recovering at his home after suffering bruises, his
family said in a statement.  
 Berra was to be honored today along with other members of
the Yankees’ 1950 championship team.  
 Mickey Rivers  
 Rivers, who played centerfield for the Yankees’ World
Series-winning teams in 1977 and 1978, fondly recalled
Steinbrenner after ending the Old Timers Day game with a two-
run double to the right-centerfield wall.  
 “It was a great day for us to show that blessing to a man
that really helped me and most of these guys in our careers,”
Rivers, 61, told the YES network. “I got plenty of help from
the man. He showed me how to stand up in life and be strong.”  
 The Yankees won seven of their record 27 World Series
titles during Steinbrenner’s 37-year tenure as owner.  
 Sheppard died on July 11 at the age of 99 and Steinbrenner
passed away two days later in Tampa, Florida. He was 80.  
 “When you think of the Yankees, his personality and
demand for excellence comes through,” Jackson, 64, who won two
titles with the Yankees and is now a special adviser for the
organization, said at a news conference. “The last few years,
our executive staff has tried to take on the drive and desire
for success that George instilled in the pinstripes.”  
 Commemorative Patches  
 The defending World Series-champion Yankees will wear a
uniform patch commemorating Steinbrenner over the heart and
another honoring Sheppard on the left sleeve of their jerseys
for the rest of the season.  
 The Yankees lost today as starting pitcher A.J. Burnett
left in the third inning with a hand injury. Burnett allowed
four runs over two-plus innings and left trailing 4-2.  
 Tampa Bay’s  Reid Brignac  hit home runs off both Burnett
and reliever  Dustin Moseley , and finished with five runs batted
in.  Carlos Pena  went 4-for-5 with a home run for the Rays.  
 Jorge Posada  and  Mark Teixeira  hit homers for the Yankees,
who yesterday beat the Rays 5-4 as  Nick Swisher  singled in the
winning run in the bottom the ninth inning.  
 The Yankees will host the finale of the three-game series
tomorrow. With a 57-33 record, New York leads the second-place
Rays by two games atop the American League Eastern Division.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        