-- Typhoon Conson Weakens to Tropical Storm Over China, Moves Toward Vietnam
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-17T07:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-17/typhoon-conson-weakens-to-tropical-storm-in-china-moves-toward-vietnam.html

          
          
             Typhoon Conson weakened to a
tropical storm as it passed over Hainan Island and is forecast
to make landfall in northern Vietnam later today, China’s
National Meteorological Center said.  
 Heavy rain and winds will continue to batter Hainan and the
southern China provinces of Guangdong, Guangxi and Yunnan, the
center said in a  statement  on its website, raising a yellow
alert and advising people to stay indoors.  
 Conson, which left 38 people dead earlier this week as it
battered the Philippines, reached land at Sanya on Hainan last
night at 7:50 p.m. Beijing time, the center  said . The city
recalled all fishing boats to port and had relocated almost
40,000 people across the island by 4:30 p.m. yesterday,
according to the official Xinhua News Agency.  
 The storm uprooted trees, light poles, and cut power
supplies in some areas of the island, and at least two people
were killed by falling billboards, including a security guard
and a cyclist, Xinhua said.  
 Parts of Sichuan, Shanxi, Hubei, Henan, Yunnan, Shandong
and Guangdong provinces will be hit by downpours over the next
24 hours, the agency reported, citing China’s meteorological
center.  
 Workers are fixing damaged buildings and draining streets
of floodwaters as the airports and Sanya and Haikou are reopened,
Xinhua said. Ferry and train services are yet to resume.  
 In the Philippines, 47 people remain missing and about
8,900 people are in evacuation centers after Conson hit the
country’s most populous island of Luzon, the National Disaster
Coordinating Council  said .  
 Ten fishing vessels were overturned by Conson when it
passed near the Xisha or Paracel Islands, Xinhua said.  
 Conson is a mountainous region in Vietnam, according to the
Hong Kong Observatory, which lists  names  assigned to cyclones in
the Pacific.  
 For Related News and Information:
Top general news: TOP GEN <GO>
Asia top stories: TOPA <GO>
More weather news: NI WEATHER BN <GO>
Maps: MAPS <GO>  
          
          


  


        