-- South Korea says Intel abused dominant position
-- By Marie-France Han and Rhee So-eui
-- Wed Jun 4, 2008 11:05pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/06/05/businesspro-intel-korea-dc-idUSSEO28782420080605

 

 SEOUL  (Reuters) - South Korean regulators said on Thursday 
Intel Corp ( INTC.O ) had abused its dominant position in the 
local market and ordered the world's top semiconductor maker to 
pay a fine of about $26 million. 

  The ruling, which follows a three-year probe, is being 
closely watched as similar antitrust investigations are 
underway in the United States and in Europe.  Intel's chief lawyer said the company would almost 
certainly file an appeal.  "We are disappointed by the decision and we think the KFTC 
(Korea Fair Trade Commission) has either misunderstood or just 
possibly chosen to ignore a great deal of the evidence that 
contradicts its findings," Bruce Sewell, Intel's general 
counsel, told Reuters by telephone.  Because the KFTC defined the issue as a purely Korean one, 
the ruling "will have very little impact outside of Korea," 
Sewell added.  The KFTC said in a statement Intel offered rebates to South 
Korean PC makers including Samsung Electronics Co Ltd 
( 005930.KS ) and Trigem Computer between 2002 and 2005 in return 
for not buying microprocessors from rival Advanced Micro 
Devices ( AMD.N ).  Intel and AMD make the central processing unit (CPU) chips 
at the heart of the world's personal computers and servers.  The KFTC ordered Intel to stop offering the rebates and pay 
a fine of about 26 billion won ($25.57 million), after 
confirmation of revenue made by Intel as a result of the 
practice.  "Intel's rebates were paid in return for not using its 
rivals' products and (this) has hurt market competition by 
limiting the choice of local PC makers in selecting business 
partners," KTFC said.  "Taking into account Intel's rebates, AMD could not 
possibly fight Intel even if its chips were offered for free.  "South Korean consumers had to buy PCs at higher prices as 
domestic PC makers were forced to buy Intel's pricier CPU."  In the United States, the state of New York launched a 
formal probe into Intel in January, but federal antitrust 
enforcers in Washington have so far declined to take up the 
matter.  In Brussels, the European Commission charged Intel last 
July with selling chips below cost and offering customers huge 
rebates in an illegal attempt to drive the smaller AMD out of 
the market.  In Japan, the Fair Trade Commission concluded in 2005 that 
Intel violated that country's Antimonopoly Act. Intel disagreed 
with the findings but accepted the commission's recommendation, 
a move that allowed it to avoid a trial.  In 2005, the KFTC fined Microsoft Corp ( MSFT.O ) $34 
million, saying the world's biggest software company breached 
anti-trust laws by selling a version of its Windows operating 
system that incorporated its media player and instant messaging 
services.  Microsoft later released new versions of Windows in the 
South Korean market to comply with the ruling.  (Additional reporting by Ben Weller and Park Ju-min, 
editing by Keiron Henderson)