-- News Corp says HarperCollins CEO resigning
-- By Robert Macmillan
-- Thu Jun 5, 2008 12:41am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/06/05/industry-harpercollins-ceo-dc-idUSN0442600520080605

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - HarperCollins Publishers Worldwide 
Chief Executive Jane Friedman is resigning, parent company News 
Corp said on Wednesday, making her the second book publishing 
executive to quit in recent weeks as financial pressures weigh 
on the industry. 

  Friedman's decision to quit HarperCollins was her own, 
according to a source familiar with the matter.  Friedman did not respond to a request seeking comment.  The news was first reported by New York media gossip blog 
Gawker.com.  Friedman's replacement will be Brian Murray, president of 
HarperCollins Worldwide, News Corp said in a statement.  The appointment is effective immediately, the company said.  Friedman's departure was hastened by the Gawker report, the 
source said, adding that Friedman was planning to leave before 
her contract came up for renewal. "It was her chance to leave 
on top," the source said.  "Jane has been a terrific leader who succeeded in 
attracting some of the world's most brilliant authors while, at 
the same time, delivering record-breaking profits," News Corp 
Chief Executive Rupert Murdoch said in a statement. "We are 
enormously grateful for her contributions over the past 10 
years and understand her desire to seek new challenges at this 
point in her career."  The news comes shortly after Bertelsmann AG announced the 
departure of Random House Chief Executive Peter Olson.  Book publishers, like many other print media owners, have 
been grappling with increasing financial pressure. More people 
are spending time online rather than with newspaper, books and 
similar media, and book publishers have been embracing recent 
electronic book reading devices, including ones made by Sony 
Corp and Amazon.com, to cater to audiences' changing tastes.  Friedman ran HarperCollins for a decade, and has presided 
over the publisher's advances into the digital world.  She also turned HarperCollins into one of the world's most 
successful book publishers, with a roster of bestselling 
authors including Barbara Kingsolver, Michael Crichton, Jeffrey 
Archer and Paulo Coelho.  Her term was not without controversy, however. In 2006, a 
HarperCollins imprint run by Judith Regan was planning to 
publish a book by O.J. Simpson called "If I Did It." The former 
football star's book about the controversy surrounding the 
murder of his late wife Nicole Brown Simpson and her friend 
caused public controversy, and the title was canceled.  Regan was subsequently fired. She sued News Corp for 
wrongful termination and sought $100 million in damages. The 
suit later was settled.  (Editing by Ben Tan)