-- Knight's Deephaven Is Performing `Reasonably Well'
-- Edgar Ortega
-- 2007-09-10T20:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-09-10/knight-s-deephaven-is-performing-reasonably-well-update2-.html

          
          
             Knight Capital Group Inc.'s hedge
fund unit is performing ``reasonably well'' and investors
overreacted to a regulatory filing last month disclosing that
some of its management fees may be refunded to clients, Chief
Executive Officer Thomas Joyce said.  
 Knight's stock fell the  most  since January after an Aug. 27
filing stoked concern that Deephaven Capital Management LLC may
have to return some of its fees. Shares of the Jersey City, New
Jersey-based brokerage have declined 12 percent since the filing,
touching a 17-month low before Joyce's comments today.  
 ``There was a dramatic overreaction to the news,'' Joyce
told investors at a conference in New York today. ``Deephaven is
doing reasonably well considering the challenging environment
we're in.''  
 Deephaven accounted for 27 percent of Knight's earnings
before taxes in the first half of this year, up from 22 percent
during the same period in 2006. Knight expanded Deephaven to
reduce its reliance on handling trades for online brokerages.  
 Knight is also considering the acquisition of unspecified
public and private companies, Joyce said today. The sale of
Knight's majority stake in the Direct Edge electronic equity
market to hedge fund Citadel Investment Group LLC and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. will help boost net income, Joyce said.  
 Knight rose 7 cents to $13.01 at 4 p.m. in  trading  on the
Nasdaq Stock Market after losing as much as 26 cents, or 2
percent, earlier in the session. The stock has declined about 32
percent this year.  
 `Substantial Portion'  
 Deephaven had $4.2 billion under management as of July 1,
mostly in a fund that invests ahead of potentially market-moving
corporate actions. A ``substantial portion'' of Deephaven's $68.4
million in incentive fees collected from January through June may
be returned to clients if its funds post a loss for the final six
months of the year, Knight said in the filing.  
 Declines in stock and credit markets during the past two
months produced losses at U.S. hedge funds, including pools run
by Goldman Sachs and Tudor Investment Corp. Deephaven's flagship
Global Multi-Strategy Fund LLC fell about 2.2 percent last month
through Aug. 24, trimming gains from earlier in the year, Knight
said in a statement posted on its Web site last month.  
 The sale of the Direct Edge stake to Citadel and Goldman
will help draw more business to the electronic market and boost
net income at Knight, Joyce told investors today. Joyce declined
to disclose terms of the transactions announced in July of
August.  
 ``We will have two strong partners so we won't be carrying
the load ourselves,'' he said. ``The income statement will look
differently -- better -- as a result.''  
 Hedge funds are private, largely unregulated pools of
capital whose managers can buy or sell any assets and participate
substantially in profits from money invested. Industry assets
have almost tripled to $1.7 trillion since 2002.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Edgar Ortega in New York at 
 ebarrales@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Erik Schatzker  at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        