-- Bright, NutraCea to Invest $64 Million in China Plant
-- Bernard Lo
-- 2008-06-27T06:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-06-27/bright-nutracea-to-invest-64-million-in-china-plant-update1-.html

          
          
             Bright Food Group Co. (600597) , parent of
 China 's second-largest dairy products maker by value, said a
proposed rice bran oil refinery will cost $64 million to build.  
 Construction of the 500,000 metric ton plant in Jiangsu
province, eastern China, will start by year end and be completed
by 2010, Jimmy Kiang, the company's senior financial adviser,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview in  Shanghai  today.  
 Palm oil and soybean  oil prices  have soared as demand for
edible oil increased, and as record crude oil prices spurred
consumers to seek alternative energy sources.  
 Bright Food and an unidentified adviser will contribute 20
percent of the capital for the plant to make edible oil, with
the rest coming from U.S. partner NutraCea, a developer of rice-bran nutritional additives, according to a company statement.  
 The refinery will be able to generate $200 million of
annual gross sales, NutraCea said in the statement. Bright
expects to build more refineries of a similar size in future
with NutraCea, according to Kiang.  
 Rice bran, the outer layer of the grain, has high
nutritional content, Margie Adelman, a senior vice president of
NutraCea, said by phone today. With rising inflation and
``volatile'' commodity prices it was developed in the past few
years for human consumption after previously being used for
 animal feed , and is a low-cost alternative to soy and corn, she
said.  
 Corn has more than doubled in price in the past year on
increased demand for livestock feed and grain-based alternative
fuels. Soybeans have jumped 95 percent in a year.  
 Rice bran oil will be ``very important'' for China's food
supply because of its nutritional content and low price,
according to Kiang.  
 Sales at Bright Group, parent company of Bright Dairy &
Food Co., are forecast to grow by 15 percent to 20 percent a
year, Kiang also said today.  
 -- Editors:  Garry Smith , Tan Hwee Ann  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net 
Bernard Lo in Hong Kong at 
 blo2@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        