-- Mills Sets Shareholder Meeting After Gazit-Globe Sues
-- Sharon L. Crenson
-- 2006-11-10T23:02:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-11-10/mills-sets-shareholder-meeting-after-gazit-globe-sues-update2-.html

          
          
             Mills Corp., a U.S. mall developer
struggling to build a $2 billion shopping and entertainment
complex in New Jersey, set its annual shareholder meeting for
next month after an investor sued the company on the matter.  
 The meeting is planned for Dec. 21, Chevy Chase, Maryland-
based Mills said today in a statement. It may be moved to the
last week of December if Mills isn't able to complete the proxy
solicitation process by Dec. 21.  
 Gazit-Globe Ltd. (GLOB) , which owns a 9.7 percent stake in Mills,
sued in  Delaware  on Nov. 8 and warned Mills not to pursue a sale.
Gazit said it wants the meeting to air its own proposal to invest
as much as $1.2 billion in Mills and to propose a new slate of
directors. In its statement today, Mills said its board planned
the meeting before Gazit's suit.  
 In August, Mills said it was out of money for the 104-acre
project known as the Meadowlands Xanadu. The company invested
$380 million so far in a complex that is supposed to include a
luxury hotel, office buildings, runway fashion shows, fine dining
and the U.S.'s first snow dome for indoor skiing. It's designed
to be 600,000 square feet bigger than Mall of America in
Bloomington,  Minnesota , the largest U.S. mall.  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are
advising Mills on a possible sale and the company has attracted
interest from ``very substantial players in the industry,'' Mills
Chief Executive Officer Mark Ordan said in an interview Nov. 8.  
 Gazit's actions show it's seeking an ``inside track'' on
buying Mills, Ordan said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon L. Crenson in New York at 
 screnson@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        