-- Wheeling-Pittsburgh Union Files to Block CSN Deal
-- Christopher Donville
-- 2006-11-10T21:26:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-11-10/wheeling-pittsburgh-union-files-to-block-csn-deal-update2-.html

          
          
             A union representing workers at
Wheeling-Pittsburgh Corp. filed a grievance to block the
steelmaker's merger with  Brazil 's Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA
and said it favors a hostile offer made by Esmark Inc.  
 Under a collective bargaining agreement, Wheeling-Pittsburgh may not enter into a transaction that changes control
of the company without the union's consent, Dave McCall,
district director for the United Steelworkers, said in a Nov. 9
letter to James Bradley, the company's chief executive officer.  
 ``While we did not want to take this step, the company has
left us no choice,'' McCall wrote.  
 Wheeling-Pittsburgh, which posted a net loss of $33.8
million last year, is seeking a cash infusion to help cut $398
million of debt that the company has failed to reduce since
emerging from bankruptcy in 2003. Steel producers are merging to
reduce operating costs and increase bargaining power with buyers
at a time of rising demand and prices.  
 Jim Kosowski, a spokesman for Wheeling, West Virginia-based
Wheeling-Pittsburgh, did not immediately return a call seeking
comment.  
 Wheeling-Pittsburgh said Oct. 25 it signed a final deal to
hold 50.5 percent in a new company to be formed with Cia.
Siderurgica Nacional. Under the agreement, CSN would invest $225
million and add its steel processing facility in Terre Haute,
 Indiana , to the new business.  
 Reverse Takeover  
 Esmark, a Chicago-based steel distributor, has proposed a
reverse takeover that would raise as much as $200 million by
selling shares of Wheeling-Pittsburgh to existing shareholders,
including Tontine Management LLC, a hedge fund run by Jeffrey
Gendell. Tontine owns 9.5 percent of the shares and has said it
favors a deal with Esmark.  
 Wheeling-Pittsburgh and Esmark have proposed rival slates
of directors that will be voted on by shareholders at the annual
meeting Nov. 17.  
 Esmark Chief Executive Officer Jim Bouchard said in an
interview that the letter shows how concerned the union is about
the proposed deal with CSN.  
 ``The current board has taken the company in the direction
of a transaction it cannot consummate,'' Bouchard said.  
 Shares of Wheeling-Pittsburgh rose 3 cents to $18 at 4 p.m.
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has gained 98 percent
in the past year. Rio De Janeiro-based CSN fell 1.6 percent to
67.16 reais in Sao Paulo. CSN has gained about 55 percent in the
past year.  
 Esmark, which is privately held, wants to be bought by
Wheeling-Pitt for about $273 million and then merge the two
companies. It also has a loan agreement for $350 million from
banks led by J.P. Morgan Chase.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        