-- Rio Tinto says Alcan bid talk is speculation
-- 
-- Tue May 29, 2007 2:06am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/05/29/businesspro-alcan-riotinto-dc-idUSKLR23248520070529

 

 KUALA LUMPUR  (Reuters) - Rio Tinto ( RIO.AX ) ( RIO.L ), the 
world's second-largest mining group, on Tuesday dismissed talk 
that it was lining up a bid for Canadian aluminum maker Alcan 
AL.TO as speculation, but did not to deny the rumor outright. 

  The Sydney Morning Herald reported on Monday that Rio Tinto 
had hired Deutsche Bank ( DBKGn.DE ) to advise it on a possible 
bid for Alcan, which emerged as a hot takeover target this 
month after rejecting a $28.5 billion offer from Alcoa Inc  ( AA.N ).  "We always consider opportunities but whether or not we are 
moving ahead, doing anything like due diligence, is pure 
speculation," Oscar Groeneveld, chief executive of Rio Tinto 
aluminum, told Reuters in an interview.  "I can't comment on that speculation because it is only 
speculation," he said on the sidelines of an economic 
conference in the Malaysian capital.  Norway's Norsk Hydro ASA ( NHY.OL ) is reported by the 
Canadian press to be weighing up a bid for Alcan as well.  BHP Billiton Ltd Plc ( BHP.AX ) ( BLT.L ), Companhia Vale do 
Rio Doce ( VALE5.SA ), United Company RUSAL, Anglo American 
AA.L and Xstrata Plc XTA.L are also seen as potential 
suitors.  Alcan is the third-largest maker of primary aluminum, 
behind Alcoa and RUSAL. An Alcan-Rio combination would top  RUSAL.  Demand for aluminum has been surging, driven largely by 
China and other developing economies. Though prices are off 
their historic highs of 2006, new aluminum smelters are 
sprouting around the world and existing smelters are being 
expanded.  Rio Tinto is a serious contender for a smelter project in 
the east Malaysian state of Sarawak, Groeneveld said.  The project has been mooted for many years, but has never 
left the Malaysian government's drawing board because of delays 
to a huge hydro-electricity scheme which would power it.  The 2,400 megawatt Bakun hydro-electric dam is now 
three-quarters complete and due to be finished in 2010.  "The dam is being built, it's well advanced, so obviously 
somebody needs to make a commitment," Groeneveld said.  "I think we are very seriously a contender for that. We are 
looking very seriously at an opportunity in Sarawak and we are 
having very fruitful discussions, but nothing yet to announce 
on that front."