-- Tabreed First-Quarter Profit Quadruples as Company Delays Payment on Bond
-- Vivian Salama
-- 2010-04-26T08:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/tabreed-first-quarter-profit-quadruples-as-company-delays-payment-on-bond.html

          
          
             National Central Cooling Co., the
Abu Dhabi-based refrigeration company, said first-quarter profit
almost quadrupled on gains from its Islamic convertible bonds.  
 Net income surged to 40.4 million dirhams ($11 million)
from 10.7 million dirhams in the year-earlier, the company,
known as Tabreed, said in a statement to the Dubai bourse today.
Revenue declined to 184.6 million dirhams from 189.7 million
dirhams.  
 Tabreed, which provides cooling for facilities such as the
Dubai Metro and Abu Dhabi’s Yas Island, said today the board
approved deferring annual payments on 1.7 billion dirhams of
Islamic bonds maturing in 2011. On March 8, the company said it
is seeking approval from shareholders to renegotiate terms on a
$200 million floating-rate note and the local currency-
denominated convertible sukuk.  
 Tabreed is among Gulf Arab companies seeking to restructure
debt after the global economic crisis dried up financing and
brought a property boom to a halt. Dubai World, one of the
emirate’s three main state-owned holding companies, is
negotiating with lenders to restructure $24.8 billion of debt
after roiling global markets by proposing a freeze on loan
repayments in November.  
 “We acknowledge the challenges facing the business in the
year ahead and those associated with our recapitalization
process,” Chief Executive Officer Sujit Parhar said in the
statement. “We will continue to focus on improving operations
and actively managing facilities.”  
 The shares rose 2.5 percent to 44.7 fils as of 11:47 a.m.
in Dubai. The stock tumbled 40 percent in the first three months
of the year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        