-- Afghan Police May Have Accidentally Killed Four UN Workers, Inquiry Finds
-- Bill Varner
-- 2010-04-26T18:41:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/afghan-police-may-have-accidentally-killed-four-un-workers-inquiry-finds.html

          
          
             A United Nations security guard
from Miami and three other workers may have been accidentally
killed by Afghan police during a Taliban attack in Kabul last
year, an investigation of the incident concluded.  
 A panel appointed by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said
there is a “strong sense” that security guard Louis Maxwell
was shot by Afghan security forces while he was defending a UN
guesthouse, Under-Secretary-General Susana Malcorra told
reporters today.  
 Three other UN workers also were likely killed by
“friendly fire” as they tried to escape the guesthouse,
Malcorra said. She said confusion and panic during the incident
and the use of similar weapons by Afghan police and the Taliban
attackers, who were dressed as policemen, made it impossible to
definitively say who fired the shots that killed the UN workers.  
 Maxwell, 27, “died protecting his colleagues, many of whom
are alive today because of heroic actions,” Ban said in a
statement. Maxwell was firing at the attackers from the roof of
the guesthouse when he fell and a videotape shows he was then
shot from afar, according to Malcorra.  
 The report came as the UN said it withdrew some of its
staff members from the southern city of Kandahar as violence
there escalated in advance of a planned U.S.-led military
offensive. The more than 200 Afghans working for the UN in
Kandahar have been told to stay home, the UN said.  
 The announcement came hours after three bombings in
Kandahar left two civilians dead today, the Associated Press
reported.  
 Kandahar Offensive  
 U.S.-led forces are pursuing Taliban leaders in Kandahar to
lay the groundwork for an offensive on the militant stronghold
planned for mid-year, Pentagon spokesman Geoff Morrell said last
week. Preparations for the offensive include discussions with
tribal leaders and helping organize community meetings to build
support for the offensive, Morrell said.  
 A total of five UN international workers and three Afghan
workers died in the guesthouse attack, along with the three
Taliban insurgents who blew themselves up.  
 Ban has asked the government of Afghanistan to participate
in a further joint investigation of the incident, Malcorra said.  
 The Afghan ambassador to the UN, Zahir Tanin, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for a comment on the findings.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        