-- Lagardere's American Raider Wyser-Pratte Takes on CEO Arnaud in Board Bid
-- Matthew Campbell
-- 2010-04-26T07:18:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/lagardere-s-american-raider-wyser-pratte-takes-on-ceo-arnaud-in-board-bid.html

          
          
             U.S. investor Guy Wyser-Pratte will
ask Lagardere SCA shareholders to name him to the board and take
on Chief Executive Officer Arnaud Lagardere over the company’s
corporate structure.  
 Shareholders in France’s largest publisher will vote
tomorrow on whether to appoint Wyser-Pratte, who says he owns a
0.53 percent stake, to the board. The investor is taking on
Arnaud Lagardere, who has vowed to protect the corporate
structure left behind by his father Jean-Luc Lagardere.  
 Wyser-Pratte wants to change the company’s status as a
“societe en commandite par actions,” a stock partnership that
gives a few general partners more power than other shareholders.
Lagardere says the structure helps the general partners to run
the company in a “responsible and careful” manner. The general
partners are Arnaud Lagardere and Arco, a company he runs.  
 “In the past, I think investors would buy into the SCA to
buy into Jean-Luc’s way of doing business,” Fabrice Remon,
managing partner at shareholder advisory firm Deminor, said by
phone. “I’m not sure today investors want to buy into Arnaud’s
way of doing business” in the same way, he said.  
 Arnaud Lagardere owns 9.6 percent of the company. He’s also
the CEO and chairman of Arco. AllianceBernstein Holding LP owns
10 percent of Lagardere, while the Qatar Investment Authority
controls 6.6 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Wyser-Pratte’s Record  
 Wyser-Pratte, 69, has been an activist investor in Europe
for more than a decade, buying up small chunks of companies he
considers ripe for a change in strategy or management.  
 At German robot-maker Kuka AG, CEO Horst Kayser and CFO
Matthias Rapp stepped down in 2009 after pressure from Wyser-
Pratte and other large shareholders to change strategy. TUI AG,
owner of Europe’s biggest tour operator, decided to sell off
part of its Hapag-Lloyd shipping unit last year after Wyser-
Pratte and other investors demanded the move.  
 An SCA has two types of shareholders: general partners with
unlimited liability for debts and whose voting rights are not
freely transferable, with veto power over some shareholder
decisions, and limited partners whose liability is limited to
their initial investment.  
 In a letter to shareholders, Lagardere this month said the
SCA structure allows the “total separation of the powers” of
the general partners and those of the supervisory board.  
 ‘Nonsense Stops’  
 “When I get on the board, the nonsense stops,” Wyser-
Pratte said in a phone interview. The investor, who is referred
to by Lagardere as an “American raider,” has pledged to
increase returns for shareholders by starting a strategic review
of the company. Seven of the 15 board seats are up for election
at the AGM.  
 Wyser-Pratte will need a majority of votes cast at the AGM
to gain a board seat. He has a chance of winning support, said
Conor O’Shea, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in Paris.
“If you’re a minority investor, why would you vote against him
getting on the board and shaking things up?”  
 Lagardere has said that the “recommendations and generally
hostile intrusion of Guy Wyser-Pratte do not represent a
constructive dialogue with the stakeholders.”  
 In an April 21 statement, Wyser-Pratte said Arnaud
Lagardere had begun a “desperate attempt to discredit him.” On
April 23, the company said it asked French market regulators to
examine Wyser-Pratte’s campaign. He denied wrongdoing.  
 In addition to Lagardere, two of 84 French companies with
more than 3 billion euros ($4 billion) in market value are also
structured as SCAs, according to shareholder advisory firm
RiskMetrics Group: tiremaker SCA Compagnie Generale des
Etablissements Michelin and luxury handbag maker Hermes
International SCA.  
 Stock Drop  
 “In a society obsessed by speed, the SCA is the perfect
tool to fight against the tyranny of the short term” because it
allows the general partners to develop a long-term strategy,
Fabrice Marchisio, a lawyer at Paris law firm Cotty Vivant
Marchisio & Lauzeral, said in an e-mail.  
 Lagardere’s stock performance doesn’t speak in management’s
favor. The shares have dropped 45 percent in the last five
years, compared with a decline of 4 percent at German publisher
Axel Springer AG, a 17 percent slump at U.S. publisher Meredith
Corp. and an increase of 63 percent at U.K. rival Pearson Plc.  
 The shares’ underperformance “has to do mostly with the
conglomerate structure, and some structural threats for some of
their businesses” such as advertising-dependent media, said
Joris Franssen, who helps manage about 600 million euros at
Kempen & Co. NV in Amsterdam, including Lagardere shares.  
 Shedding Stakes  
 Arnaud Lagardere has made shrinking the range of businesses
a priority this year. On April 15, the company began a process
to sell its 20 percent stake in Canal Plus France, the biggest
French pay-TV operator. He has also pledged to dispose of a 7.5
percent stake in European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co., the
maker of Airbus jets, and use the proceeds to focus on the media
business. EADS is the company’s only defense asset.  
 Shareholder advisory firms, which give advice to
institutional investors on corporate resolutions, have issued
different opinions on Wyser-Pratte’s efforts.  
 Glass Lewis & Co. recommends clients vote against Wyser-
Pratte’s board candidacy, and for his proposal to alter the
privileges of the general partners. RiskMetrics Group advised
clients to vote for the candidacy.  
 It’s hard to predict whether Wyser-Pratte will succeed in
changing Lagardere’s structure, Colette Neuville, the president
of the Association for the Defense of Minority Shareholders,
said by phone.  
 “He alone can’t produce a revolution,” she said. “But he
can provoke a discussion.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        