-- Magna Entertainment Wins Approval of Reorganization Plan for Race Courses
-- Steven Church
-- 2010-04-26T21:54:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/magna-entertainment-wins-approval-of-reorganization-plan-for-race-courses.html

          
          
             Magna Entertainment Corp., the
bankrupt horse-track owner, won court approval of a
reorganization plan that allows Chairman Frank Stronach to
retain the company’s most valuable race courses.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary F. Walrath said today in
Wilmington, Delaware, that she would approve Magna’s
reorganization, in which a company controlled by Stronach would
take over tracks in California, Florida and Maryland, including
Santa Anita Park, Gulfstream Park and Pimlico Race Course, home
to the Preakness Stakes, the middle jewel in horse racing’s
Triple Crown.  
 With the support of creditors, Magna tried, and failed, to
sell many of its tracks, soliciting initial bids in order to
hold a series of auctions, company attorney Brian Rosen said in
court today.  
 “Each price was lower than the previous prices
submitted,” Rosen, with Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP, told
Walrath.  
 Magna, based in Aurora, Ontario, should exit bankruptcy by
April 30, after getting final approval from gambling regulators
in the states where the company operates, Rosen said. Walrath
asked the company to make minor changes to the reorganization
plan, which Rosen agreed to make.  
 Sued by Creditors  
 Stronach, also the founder and chairman of auto-parts maker
Magna International Inc., was sued by creditors who accused him
of using bogus loans to try to keep some tracks instead of
selling them to repay the company’s debts. Creditors,
represented by Kramer, Levin, Naftalis & Frankel, LLP, agreed to
settle that case in exchange for $89 million. Walrath called the
settlement “phenomenal.”  
 Companies affiliated with Stronach were contributing more
than $700 million worth of value to reorganizing Magna, far more
than the properties would have been worth had they been
liquidated, Walrath said. Some of that value included $450
million worth of loans Stronach-affiliated companies were
forgiving.  
 During a court hearing last week, Magna financial adviser
Marc Puntus said the company faced about $880 million in debt,
more than it could ever hope to repay.  
 Walrath dismissed objections by shareholders who claimed
that Magna officials undervalued the company’s tracks,
especially developable land near Baltimore.  
 ‘More Problems’  
 “The more we look into this transaction, the more problems
we find,” shareholder attorney Donna Harris told Walrath.  
 The company should have continued working with potential
buyers to hold the auctions, Harris said. Magna financial
advisers also understated the health of some tracks, ignoring a
potentially beneficial change in Florida’s tax laws, Harris
said.  
 The company said initial bids for many of its tracks,
including Pimlico and Santa Anita, were either too low, or
weren’t backed by financing, making it impossible to hold a
series of auctions to raise money to pay creditors.  
 The case is In re Magna Entertainment Corp., 09-10720, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        