-- Thai Political Unrest May Lead to Credit-Rating Downgrade, S&P's Tan Says
-- Aki Ito
-- 2010-04-26T05:02:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/thai-political-unrest-may-lead-to-credit-rating-downgrade-s-p-s-tan-says.html

          
          
             Thailand faces a downgrade of its
BBB+ credit rating should the political unrest that has
paralyzed a Bangkok business district and claimed 26 lives
continue, Standard & Poor’s said.  
 “We do see the political uncertainty persisting, and
likely will bring the credit indicators down from current
levels in the next year or two,” Kim Eng Tan, director of
sovereign ratings at S&P in Singapore, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television today. “If this prediction would come
true, then likely there will be a rating downgrade.”  
 S&P this month maintained its negative outlook on Thailand,
where clashes between protesters and security forces have
deterred investment and prompted countries from Australia to
Canada to issue travel warnings. Thailand’s SET Index of stocks
has slid 5.8 percent since April 7, when Prime Minister Abhisit
Vejjajiva imposed emergency rule.  
 Protesters today readied themselves for a military
offensive on the Bangkok business district they have shut down
for 23 days after Abhisit called off peace talks and pledged to
disperse them.  
 “If violence breaks out across the country, which is an
event we do not expect at this time, it could also trigger a
downward revision,” Tan said.  
 Third Lowest  
 S&P has kept Thailand’s long-term, foreign-currency debt
at BBB+, the third-lowest investment grade, since 2004,
Bloomberg data show. That’s still higher than Indonesia, the
Philippines and Vietnam, which all carry junk ratings.  
 Moody’s Investors Service also maintained a negative
outlook on its Baa1 rating for Thailand’s long-term, foreign
currency debt this month. Fitch Ratings this month kept its
assessment of the country’s BBB rating, while cutting the
outlook on the long-term, local currency debt rating of A-.  
 The SET index climbed 1.5 percent to 766.13 as of 12:01
a.m. in Bangkok. It has retreated since closing at 812.38 on
April 7, the highest level since June 2008. Foreigners on April
23 sold a net 2.33 billion baht ($72 million) of stock, the
most net selling in five months.  
 Government agencies may revise their economic forecasts as
tourists cancel trips and foreign companies delay investments,
Abhisit said yesterday.  
 Income from foreign tourists is equivalent to about 6
percent of the nation’s economy, and helped lift the nation out
of its first recession in a decade in the last quarter of 2009.  
 Japan Investors  
 Japanese investors, Thailand’s biggest source of foreign
direct investment, have delayed plans to expand factories and
plants in Thailand, Amata Corp. Pcl, the nation’s largest
industrial developer, said last week.  
 Tan said investors would probably remain in Southeast
Asia’s second-biggest economy as long as the violence doesn’t
disrupt shipments abroad.  
 “The major driving force behind the Thai economy in the
past few years has been exports,” he said. “As long as the
infrastructure doesn’t get affected, the roads leading to the
ports, the ports themselves, there’s no reason why exports
should drop off as the driving force for the economy.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Melissa Long in Hong Kong at  mlong28@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Tan Kim Eng, sovereign debt ratings director at Standard & Poor's, talks with Bloomberg's Melissa Long about the implications of Thailand's political unrest for the nation's credit rating. 
     Thai protesters readied themselves for a military offensive on the Bangkok business district they have shut down for 23 days after Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva called off peace talks and pledged to disperse them. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Win Udomrachtavanich, chief investment officer at Asset Plus Fund Management Co., talks with Bloomberg's Melissa Long from Bangkok about Thai political unrest and its impact on the nation's stock market. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
