-- China's Stocks Slump to Six-Month Low on Property Concern; Vanke Declines
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-04-27T07:41:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/air-china-china-shenhua-energy-co-zhongjin-gold-china-equity-preview.html

          
          
             China’s stocks fell, driving the
benchmark index to a six-month low, on concern government
measures to cool the property market will damp consumer spending
and curb demand for raw materials.  
 Air China Ltd. slid 2.6 percent, leading a decline by
carriers, amid speculation institutional investors sold shares
after recent rallies. China Vanke Co., the largest listed
property developer, lost 1.3 percent after profit halved from
the previous three months. PetroChina Co. and Jiangxi Copper Co.,
the nation’s biggest oil and copper producers, retreated more
than 2 percent as crude and metal prices declined.  
 “The property industry is one of the pillars of China’s
economy and the effects of a downturn would filter throughout
the whole economy,” said Zhang Xiuqi, a Shanghai-based
strategist at China International Fund Management Co., which
oversees about $10.2 billion.  
 The Shanghai Composite Index slumped 61.58, or 2.1 percent,
to close at 2,907.93, its lowest since Oct. 12 and paring an
earlier 3.5 percent loss. The measure has plunged 11 percent in
2010, the world’s fourth-worst performer, as the government
unwound monetary stimulus and stepped up measures to prevent a
housing bubble inflated by record lending last year. The gauge
surged 80 percent in 2010.  
 The CSI 300 Index declined 2 percent to 3,108.41. Futures
on the CSI 300 expiring in May, the most active contract, slid
2.7 percent to 3,138.8.  
 ‘Lack of Confidence’  
 Air China, the nation’s largest international carrier,
dropped 2.1 percent to 13.53 yuan. The shares had rallied 42
percent this year before today. China Eastern Airlines Corp.,
the second largest, fell 4.2 percent to 9.27 yuan, the biggest
decline in a week.  
 “Some institutional investors are selling for lack of
confidence in economy,” said Li Lei, an analyst at China
Securities Co. in Beijing. “Airlines account for quite a big
proportion of institutional investors’ portfolios and they have
made quite a lot of profit.”  
 Chinese insurers have lowered their equities holdings by 2
to 3 percentage points since April to between 7 percent and 8
percent of their portfolios, Shanghai Securities News reported
today, citing responses from unidentified insurance companies.
Insurers sold developers, banks and coal miners, the report said.  
 China has ordered higher mortgage rates and down-payment
ratios since property prices jumped 11.7 percent in March, the
most since comparable data began in 2005. The government has
also raised banks’ reserve requirements, set a target of a 22
percent reduction in new lending this year, barred loans for
third-home purchases and reinstated a sales tax on homes.  
 ‘Spillover of Euphoria’  
 The government’s measures “will have significant impact on
the market,” Vanke said in a statement yesterday. “It is
believed that the trend of rapid rise in housing prices in the
popular cities will end and the spillover of euphoria to other
cities will stop.”  
 Vanke dropped 1.3 percent to 7.70 yuan, extending its loss
this year to 29 percent. The Shenzhen-based developer yesterday
reported first-quarter profit fell 53 percent from the three
months ended Dec. 31.  
 China is “on a treadmill to hell” because it’s hooked on
property development for driving growth, hedge fund manager
James Chanos said in an interview this month. As much as 60
percent of the country’s gross domestic product relies on
construction, Chanos said.  
 The nation’s economy expanded 11.9 percent in the first
quarter of 2010, the most in almost three years, after a 4
trillion yuan ($586 billion) stimulus package and unprecedented
new loans of 9.59 trillion yuan helped revive growth last year.  
 Fan Comments  
 Chanos is overly pessimistic about China’s property market
because he underestimates government efforts to avoid a bubble,
Fan Gang, a former People’s Bank of China adviser, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview recorded in Hong Kong yesterday.  
 Vanke offers “opportunity” for investors because the
largest property stocks will benefit from industry consolidation
amid government steps to curb real estate prices, said Martin
Lau, director of Greater China equities at First State
Investments.  
 PetroChina dropped 2.3 percent to 11.92 yuan, the lowest in
a year, as crude oil fell 0.7 percent to $83.64 in after-hours
trading in New York, extending yesterday’s 1.1 percent slide.  
 Jiangxi Copper fell 2.3 percent to 34.31 yuan. Aluminum
Corp of China Ltd., the nation’s biggest producer of the metal,
slumped 4.4 percent to 11.64 yuan. Zhuzhou Smelter Group.,
China’s biggest zinc smelter, lost 5.8 percent to 13.36 yuan,
after saying first-quarter profit fell 73 percent.  
 Metals Decline  
 Copper declined as much as 1.4 percent to 60,600 yuan a ton
in Shanghai. Aluminum lost 0.3 percent in London, lead slumped
1.8 percent, zinc retreated 1.1 percent and nickel was down 0.9
percent.  
 Wuhan Iron & Steel Co., the publicly traded unit of China’s
third-biggest steelmaker, dropped 3.6 percent to 5.57 yuan, its
lowest since January 2009. The company had its 2010 per-share
earnings forecast cut 34 percent by analyst Luo Wei at China
International Capital Corp., who cited lower-than-estimate
first-quarter profit.  
 “Investors are turning panicky because they have no idea
what impact the government’s crackdown on property will have on
the economy,” said Zheng Tuo, president of Shanghai Good Hope
Equity Investment Management Co. “The sell-off reflects their
uncertainty.”  
 For Related News and Information:
Chinese stocks stories: TNI CHINA STK <GO>
The most-read Chinese stock stories: MNI CHS <GO>
Global stocks stories: TOP STK <GO>
World equity index monitor: WEI <GO>
World equity valuations: WPE <GO>  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 27 (Bloomberg) -- Fan Gang, a former People’s Bank of China adviser, talked yesterday with Bloomberg's Susan Li in Hong Kong about China's measures to cool property prices and the nation's currency policy.
     Fan said James Chanos is overly pessimistic about China’s property market because the hedge fund manager underestimates government efforts to avoid a bubble. Chanos said earlier this month that China is on a "treadmill to hell" because it’s hooked on property development for driving growth. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
