-- Taiwan Dollar Leads Asia Currencies to 2008 Highs as Region Leads Recovery
-- Patricia Lui
-- 2010-04-26T08:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/taiwan-dollar-leads-asia-currencies-to-2008-highs-as-region-leads-recovery.html

          
          
             Asian currencies rose, with
Taiwan’s dollar and South Korea’s won reaching the highest
levels in at least 19 months, on speculation investors will plow
more funds into local assets as the region leads a recovery.  
 The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index touched a 20-month
high and stocks rallied as Greece moved a step closer to
securing an aid package from the International Monetary Fund to
finance its deficit. Reports this week may show Singapore’s
industrial production grew in March and South Korea’s economy
expanded in the first quarter. Asia will need to tighten
monetary policy earlier because it is recovering faster than
other parts of the world, the IMF said last week.  
 “Funds are coming into this region on expectations higher
rates will soon follow those growth signs,” said Zaki Mokhtar,
head of foreign-exchange spot trading at RHB Bank Bhd. in Kuala
Lumpur. “The euro’s rebound is giving some support” to risk-
taking, he said.  
 Taiwan’s currency strengthened 0.3 percent to NT$31.359
versus its U.S. counterpart as of the 4 p.m. close local time,
according to Taipei Forex Inc. It reached NT$31.288, the highest
level since August 2008. The won rose 0.5 percent to 1,103.80
and touched 1,102.85, the strongest since September 2008.  
 The Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-
traded currencies excluding the yen, reached 113.29 today, the
highest level since August 2008. The MSCI Asia-Pacific index of
regional shares rose 1.6 percent, halting two days of losses.  
 Capital Inflows  
 Greece Finance Minister George Papaconstantinou said
yesterday in Washington that money will be available “rather
soon” and his country wouldn’t restructure its debt as 8.5
billion euros ($11.3 billion) of the country’s bonds mature on
May 19. The single European currency dropped 0.2 percent to
$1.3357 after rallying the most in two weeks on April 23.  
 Malaysia’s ringgit strengthened to a two-year high, the
Indonesian rupiah reached levels last touched in July 2007, and
the Philippine peso climbed to the highest since August 2008.  
 “All Asian currencies, including the rupiah, have
appreciated today on capital inflows,” said Ho Woei Chen, a
regional economist at United Overseas Bank Ltd. in Singapore.
“Greece’s decision has helped to stabilize risk appetite as it
wouldn’t be good for anyone if Europe gets into big trouble.”  
 Korea GDP  
 The won appreciated as global funds pumped more money into
Korean shares to profit from accelerating economic growth and
increasing exports. Reports this week are forecast to show gross
domestic product rose at a faster pace in the first quarter and
overseas sales climbed for a sixth month in April.  
 “Data this week are expected to be very strong,” said
Peter Redward, head of rates research at Barclays Plc. “Combine
that with strong risk appetite and very good demand for Korean
assets, which is reinforcing the won.”  
 Korea’s economy probably expanded 7.5 percent from a year
earlier in the three months through March, the most since 2002,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg before the central bank report tomorrow. Exports
increased 32 percent in April, based on a separate survey before
government trade data is published on May 1.  
 Taiwan’s dollar gained the most in more than a week on
speculation a trade accord with China will boost foreign
investment as the recovery gathers pace.  
 Taiwan Trade Accord  
 Public support for a planned Economic Cooperation Framework
Agreement, or ECFA, with the mainland increased seven percentage
points to 48 percent after Taiwan President Ma Ying-jeou held a
televised debate on the pact with the opposition leader
yesterday, the China Times reported.  
 The island’s currency advanced 2.2 percent so far this year
as overseas funds bought $4.1 billion more Taiwan stocks than
they sold.  
 “It’s helpful to make people in Taiwan realize that the
ECFA will create a new market,” said Henry Lin, a currency
trader at Taiwan Shin Kong Commercial Bank. “Foreign banks with
investment capital will buy the Taiwan dollar. I think the
International Monetary Fund will show its hand to solve the
Greece problem.”  
 Elsewhere in the region, the Philippine peso climbed 0.3
percent to 44.21 per dollar and Singapore’s currency appreciated
0.3 percent to S$1.3680. The Indonesian rupiah rose 0.1 percent
to 9,008 and the Thai baht was little changed at 32.22. China’s
yuan was at 6.8271, compared with 6.8275 at the end of last week.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Taiwan currency  
                       
                         
                           Maurice Tsai/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Taiwan currency is arranged for a photograph in Taipei, on Feb. 21, 2008. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Taiwan currency is arranged for a photograph in Taipei, on Feb. 21, 2008.  Photographer: Maurice Tsai/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Win Udomrachtavanich, chief investment officer at Asset Plus Fund Management Co., talks with Bloomberg's Melissa Long from Bangkok about Thai political unrest and its impact on the nation's stock market. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
