-- Altria, Reynolds, Liggett Lose $20 Million Verdict in Florida Smoker Case
-- Bob Van Voris
-- 2010-04-27T11:56:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/altria-reynolds-liggett-lose-20-million-verdict-in-florida-smoker-case.html

          
          
             Altria Group Inc.’s Philip Morris
USA and two other cigarette makers lost a $20 million verdict in
Florida state court in Fort Lauderdale.  
 A six-person jury yesterday found Philip Morris, R.J.
Reynolds Tobacco Co. and Liggett Group responsible for the
cancer death of Margot Putney, a Lighthouse Point, Florida,
woman who began smoking in about 1953 at the age of 15 and died
in 1995.  
 “She started smoking in an era where cigarette advertising
was pervasive, on TV -- in its infancy -- in print media and on
radio,” Charles Baumberger, a lawyer representing three Putney
children, said yesterday in a phone interview.  
 The verdict follows a series of losses by the tobacco
industry in Florida after a 2006 ruling by the state’s Supreme
Court in the “Engle” tobacco class action case. In its
decision, the Florida high court decertified a statewide class
of addicted smokers and permitted individual suits to go
forward.  
 Jurors reached the verdict after deliberating less than
four hours last week and yesterday morning, Baumberger said.  
 The jury awarded Putney’s family $15 million in
compensatory damages. Jurors assigned 35 percent of the
responsibility to Putney for her death; 15 percent to Philip
Morris; 30 percent to Reynolds; and 20 percent to Liggett.
Jurors also assessed $2.5 million in punitive damages each
against Philip Morris and Reynolds.  
 Plaintiff’s Responsibility  
 The verdict came in the second phase of the month-long
trial. In the first phase, jurors took half an hour to decide
that Putney had been addicted to cigarettes, according to
Baumberger.  
 In most of the post-Engle cases, the compensatory portion
of the award has been reduced by the plaintiffs’ percentage of
responsibility as found by the jurors. Baumberger said the issue
hasn’t yet been determined in the Putnam case.  
 In the Engle ruling, the Florida Supreme Court upheld many
of the factual findings of a trial jury in the case, including
that the cigarette industry conspired to conceal information
about the addictiveness of smoking and that cigarettes are
defective and unreasonably dangerous products. The Supreme Court
ruled that the findings would apply in the post-Engle individual
trials, which the companies claim deprives them of their right
to a fair trial.  
 “We believe this verdict should be reversed because the
court’s trial plan improperly eliminated any requirement that
plaintiff prove that the companies did anything wrong to recover
damages,” Murray Garnick, Altria senior vice president and
associate general counsel said in a statement.  
 David Howard, a spokesman for Reynolds American Inc.’s R.J.
Reynolds unit said the company is disappointed in the verdict
and will appeal. Carrie Bloom, a spokeswoman for Liggett, a unit
of Vector Group Ltd., didn’t immediately return a voice-mail
message seeking comment yesterday.  
 Philip Morris is the largest U.S. tobacco company. Reynolds
is No. 2.  
 The case is Putney v. Philip Morris USA, Florida Circuit
Court (Fort Lauderdale).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        