-- `Buffett of Arabia' Alwaleed Sees Wealth Wane
-- Vernon Silver
-- 2010-04-26T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/alwaleed-holds-wallet-with-warren-buffett-as-princely-riches-incur-setback.html

          
          
             Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal sits
under an almost full moon near a campfire at his rustic retreat
in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. He’s surrounded by a zoo with zebras
and giraffes, an artificial lake and a lodge that has an indoor
pool, saunas and steam rooms. Three hooded falcons are perched
on stands in front of him.  
 Five young women, dressed in black miniskirts and jackets
and orange knee-high boots that match their nail polish, serve
clove-and-cardamom tea to Alwaleed and his entourage, which
includes his personal physician.  
 On this evening in late March, the prince perks up in his
easy chair as a newscast on a large-screen television behind the
campfire reports on a rally in global hotel stocks -- a sign of
hope for the billionaire investor who’s trying to revive his
slumping fortune, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its June
issue.  
 “Hotels are on the way up; they’re taking off,” says
Alwaleed, before he rises to lead about 15 courtiers and
retainers down a hill for a feast of Saudi, Lebanese and Italian
food.  
 Alwaleed, 55, one of the world’s richest men, saw his net
worth climb to $21.1 billion in May 2000, according to his tally
of investments and personal wealth. He achieved that mostly by
investing in big-name companies such as Apple Inc. and News
Corp.  
 Since then, many stocks have turned against him, especially
those of Citigroup Inc. and Time Warner Inc. The Saudi royal’s
fortune has been trimmed to $16.6 billion, based on the value of
his Kingdom Holding Co. stake on March 31 and his personal
assets as of Feb. 10.  
 ‘Buffett of Arabia’  
 Alwaleed often refers to himself as the “Buffett of
Arabia,” although the comparison to Warren Buffett, chairman of
Berkshire Hathaway Inc., doesn’t hold up. Berkshire Hathaway’s
Class A shares more than doubled in the same span of almost ten
years, swelling Buffett’s stake to $48.7 billion.  
 Alwaleed, who’s a nephew of Saudi King Abdullah, is
plotting a rebound. The prince’s Riyadh-based Kingdom Holding,
which invests most of his wealth, has been retreating from U.S.
equities and pouring billions into luxury hotels and large-scale
housing and commercial developments in Saudi Arabia and around
the world.  
 Kingdom Holding, where Alwaleed serves as chairman, has
boosted its property-related assets, such as Four Seasons Hotels
Inc., to 75 percent of its holdings, according to his company’s
2009 annual report. Publicly traded stock, which made up at
least 79 percent of Alwaleed’s assets in 2000, now constitutes
only about 23 percent of his wealth.  
 371-Room Palace  
 Alwaleed’s most ambitious undertaking is the 1-kilometer-
tall (0.62-mile-tall) Kingdom Tower in Jeddah. When completed,
the skyscraper will be the world’s tallest, surpassing the
current record holder -- Dubai’s Burj Khalifa -- by 21 percent.  
 The prince says his shift in strategy at Kingdom Holding,
which he controls with a 95 percent stake, may put him on a path
to surpass the riches of the 79-year-old Buffett.  
 “When he was my age, he was not as big as me,” Alwaleed
says. “I still have 20 years.”  
 Alwaleed’s preoccupation with his status and wealth, which
includes four jets, a 281-foot (86-meter) yacht and a 371-room
palace, is also on display at Kingdom Holding’s headquarters.  
 The glass tower that he built has an oval-shaped hole in
the top that resembles the eye of a sewing needle. In his 66th-
floor office, models of his airplanes decorate his desk.
Bookshelves display reprints of magazine articles about his
ranking on billionaire lists.  
 Bill Gates  
 The prince keeps meticulous track of the ups and downs of
his fortune, Kingdom Holding Chief Financial Officer Shadi
Sanbar says.  
 Alwaleed hires appraisers to value his private assets --
such as a jewelry collection worth more than $700 million -- and
makes those figures available to publishers of rich lists,
Sanbar says. After a ranking is published, the prince sometimes
issues a press release touting his position.  
 “He wants to be the best, the wealthiest; that by itself is
what motivates him,” says Saleh Al Fadl, who worked for Alwaleed
from 1989 to 1993 at United Saudi Commercial Bank, one of the
prince’s earliest investments, and now helps run retail banking
at Riyadh-based Saudi Hollandi Bank.  
 In addition to chasing Buffett, Alwaleed has also been
preoccupied with Bill Gates, the Microsoft Corp. founder who has
often topped the billionaire rankings, Al Fadl says. “He was
always referring to Bill Gates,” he says.  
 Buffett Letters  
 Alwaleed is particularly fond of his correspondence with
Buffett by mail and fax over a span of at least nine years.  
 Buffett started the exchange, writing Alwaleed after a 12-
day stay at New York’s Plaza Hotel. In the May 1999 letter,
Buffett called the Plaza his “home” when in New York and praised
the prince, who then owned a 42 percent stake in the hotel, for
the extraordinary service.  
 “You have restored The Plaza to its former luster -- indeed
your managers have enabled it to surpass its previous heights --
and I congratulate you,” Buffett wrote in the first of a series
of letters that Alwaleed gave to Bloomberg News.  
 The prince responded a month later, saying he was elated to
have an individual of such discriminating tastes attest to the
Plaza’s high standards. Alwaleed then got down to business.  
 “Needless to say, I should be pleased to consider
participating in any of your future investments that you may
deem pertinent,” the prince wrote.  
 A Laggard  
 Buffett, who grew rich by investing in consumer brands such
as American Express Co. and Coca-Cola Co., wrote back three days
later. He said he would be delighted to team up with the prince.
He also piled on the praise.  
 “In Omaha, I’m known as the ‘Alwaleed of America’ -- which
is quite a compliment,” Buffett wrote.  
 In December 1999, Alwaleed told Buffett in a letter that he
found news coverage of a slump in Berkshire’s stock “highly
objectionable” and had written to editors to defend him.  
 “Dear Prince Alwaleed,” Buffett responded the next day.
“You’re terrific!”  
 A decade later, it’s the prince’s investments that need a
boost. As of March 31, Alwaleed’s net worth had dropped 21
percent from May 2000, the tally shows.  
 Citigroup shares, which fell 90 percent during the period,
did the most damage to his fortune. The prince even fell behind
the Dow Jones Industrial Average, which returned 27 percent,
including reinvested dividends.  
 “He’s become a laggard,” says Laszlo Birinyi, founder of
equity research firm Birinyi Associates Inc. in Westport,
Connecticut. “As an investor, his record is not worth
following.”  
 Unrealized Losses  
 Sitting at his gray-marble desk in his office, Alwaleed
defends his stock picking, saying most of his losses came in
2008 as a wave of subprime-mortgage defaults convulsed the
financial world.  
 He grabs a copy of Richard J. Connors’s book “Warren
Buffett on Business” (Wiley, 2009) and flips it open to a
passage he has highlighted with a green marker. It describes
Berkshire Hathaway’s assets declining in 2008, reducing the book
value of the company’s shares by 9.6 percent.  
 “Just read this,” he says. “Look what it says. In 2008,
everyone had a hiccup. He went down also.”  
 Buffett declined to comment for this story.  
 Alwaleed’s decline may be worse than his accounting shows.
In its 2008 annual report, Kingdom Holding classified more than
$4 billion of its $7.45 billion of stock market losses as
temporary -- and therefore didn’t subtract them from its
earnings.  
 Ernst & Young Note  
 Kingdom Holding’s auditor in Riyadh, Ernst & Young,
qualified its approval of the accounts, saying it couldn’t
determine whether the company took a big enough deduction for
the market losses, according to its notes on the company’s
statements. Ernst & Young didn’t say the company had violated
accounting standards generally accepted in Saudi Arabia.  
 A year later, as the unrealized loss shrank to $3.53
billion, Ernst & Young didn’t attach any qualification to its
audit of Kingdom Holding.  
 Even though the unrealized loss has come down, the
auditor’s notes suggest that the value of Kingdom Holding may be
less than its market capitalization of $9.49 billion as of April
26, says Steven Bankler, a San Antonio-based forensic accountant
who examined the company’s financial statements at the request
of Bloomberg News.  
 Kingdom Holding’s Sanbar says the company correctly judged
the size of its unrealized loss and that it expects its stock
investments to bounce back.  
 Kingdom Oasis  
 Alwaleed also hopes to boost his fortune in the desert of
Saudi Arabia. Northeast of Riyadh, the prince’s armored GMC
Suburban bumps over rocks as he prepares to inspect his latest
project: Kingdom Oasis, a development that includes an
equestrian resort, a banquet facility and villas. Oasis is part
of the 16.8-square-kilometer (6.5-square-mile) Kingdom City
Riyadh planned community.  
 His driver, who has a black pistol holstered under his arm,
turns past what will be a safari park and lake and stops in
front of a clubhouse next to horse stables.  
 Alwaleed ducks inside the clubhouse and spots a flaw: Two
Ping-Pong tables in the recreation room instead of one. He
thrusts his wooden walking stick at one of the tables.  
 “This should be removed,” he barks at his project managers.
“And put in billiards.”  
 When he’s not inspecting his investments, Alwaleed
sometimes meets with foreign officials and heads of state as
part of his role as a Saudi royal.  
 Saudi King  
 “I’m a businessman, but that’s only a platform,” he says.
When asked if he wants to be king, he said he would serve his
nation in any capacity if asked.  
 In a country with thousands of princes and an autocratic
regime with no firm order of succession, Alwaleed doesn’t have a
clear path to the throne. Unlike his cousins from other lines of
the Saud family, he lacks a formal role in government.  
 Alwaleed’s father, Talal Bin Abdulaziz, does sit on the
kingdom’s commission for succession, which helps pick the crown
prince after the death of a king.  
 Talal became a black sheep of the royal clan after pressing
unsuccessfully in the 1950s for more democracy in Saudi Arabia.
He later founded the Arab Gulf Program for United Nations
Development Organizations in 1980 and currently serves as its
president. The group raises money to support reproductive health
education in Mauritania and women’s entrepreneurship in the Gaza
Strip.  
 Princess Ameerah Altaweel  
 Alwaleed has followed his father’s example by advocating
for greater freedom for Saudi women, who must wear neck-to-toe
robes to mask their figures in public.  
 The prince has hired a mostly female staff at his offices,
creating workplaces rarely seen in Saudi Arabia. The women he
employs dress in Western clothing and hold jobs managing his
construction projects, piloting his jets and directing catering
at his palace.  
 Three times divorced, the prince has a son, 32, and a
daughter, 27. Alwaleed is now married to Princess Ameerah
Altaweel, 27, who speaks fluent English with an American accent
she picked up from watching the television show “Friends.”  
 The princess, who’s vice chairman of the Alwaleed Bin Talal
Foundations for Charity and Philanthropy, says she wants to be
the first Saudi woman to drive on public roads -- if it becomes
legal.  
 “She’s the vanguard,” Alwaleed says.  
 Starting with $30,000  
 The prince says his liberal views were nurtured in the
U.S., where in 1979 he received an undergraduate degree in
business administration from Menlo College in Atherton,
California.  
 After Alwaleed returned to Riyadh, his father jump-started
the prince’s investment career by giving him a $30,000 loan and
a house, which he mortgaged. As the prince started to build his
fortune, he earned a master’s degree in social science from
Syracuse University in Syracuse, New York, in 1985.  
 Alwaleed says he made his first billion by 1989 from
investments in Saudi real estate and banking as well as
commissions he earned as a local agent for foreign construction
companies. In the next two years, the prince began investing in
Citicorp, which was then drowning in bad real estate loans.  
 After Citicorp Chief Executive Officer John Reed asked
Alwaleed for a cash infusion, the prince in 1991 added $590
million to his stake. That brought his total investment to $797
million, making him the bank’s biggest individual shareholder --
a position the prince says he still holds today.  
 Technology Splurge  
 Seven years later, the bank merged with Travelers Group
Inc. to form Citigroup, and by 2000, Alwaleed’s shares were
worth $8.6 billion, even after he’d sold off some of his
original holding.  
 “He took a big risk and it paid off,” says David Webb, head
of the finance department at the London School of Economics.
“Big fund managers didn’t buy the stock, and then some guy from
the Middle East puts all his eggs in one basket. We all could
have been rich, looking backwards.”  
 The billionaire used his new riches to splurge on U.S.
technology shares in the first half of 2000. Just as stock
markets were beginning to plunge that year, with the Nasdaq
Composite Index falling 78 percent through October 2002,
Alwaleed bought $400 million of Compaq Computer Corp. shares and
$200 million of WorldCom Inc.  
 He also purchased shares of Amazon.com Inc. and DoubleClick
Inc. as well as household names such as AT&T Corp., McDonald’s
Corp. and Coca-Cola. The prince told Bloomberg News at the time
that he was buying all of these stocks on the cheap.  
 Praise from Murdoch  
 As he spread his money around corporate America, Alwaleed
won many friends. News Corp. Chairman Rupert Murdoch was among
the 355 guests who gathered at the Plaza Hotel to honor the
prince in November 2000 at an awards dinner thrown by the Arab
Bankers Association of North America.  
 After the guests took their seats in the Grand Ballroom,
Alwaleed entered the room with his retinue and walked to the
head table, drawing applause. He sat next to Murdoch, and the
two men chatted over a dinner of lobster tails and rack of lamb.  
 Then the media mogul took the podium to praise the Saudi
royal for his investment in News Corp., at the time an
Australian company that had U.S.-traded shares. From his initial
News Corp. investments of a combined $600 million in 1997 and
1999 through that evening in 2000, Alwaleed had almost doubled
his money.  
 “Very proud, we are, that Prince Alwaleed is one of News
Corp.’s largest shareholders,” Murdoch said.  
 Selling Apple  
 After six tribute speeches, Alwaleed returned to the
hotel’s Suite 537, decorated with gilded furniture, where
journalists quizzed him about ill-timed investments he had
announced about six months earlier.  
 “We don’t see any further investments in the Internet,”
Alwaleed said. “Many companies are going to go bankrupt.”  
 In 2002, the same year in which WorldCom went belly up, the
prince deployed another $1 billion in three companies whose
stock he already owned: AOL Time Warner Inc., Priceline.com Inc.
and Citigroup.  
 Priceline.com was the only winner: The shares he’s held on
to have jumped fourfold to about $175 million, based on data in
Kingdom Holding documents.  
 The investor would be worth several billion dollars more
today had he not chucked the bulk of his stake in Apple in 2005.
He had poured $115 million into the computer maker in 1997.
Under founder and CEO Steve Jobs, the company introduced the
iPod four years later.  
 Returning to Saudi  
 At Alwaleed’s Hotel George V in Paris in November 2005, the
prince told Bloomberg News his motive for selling his Apple
stake.  
 “The benefit of iTunes and all the good moves that Steve
Jobs has done have already been put in the price,” Alwaleed
said.  
 He was wrong. The rapidly selling iPod was followed in 2007
by the iPhone, which transformed mobile devices, and the iPad in
2010. The prince missed a sevenfold rally starting from the
middle of 2005. His holding would have been worth about $6.75
billion as of today.  
 As Alwaleed was selling his Apple shares, he began moving
money from the U.S. into Saudi Arabia, which itself was in
transition. In 2005, King Fahd, who had ruled for 23 years, died
at age 82, propelling Alwaleed’s uncle -- Crown Prince Abdullah
-- to the throne.  
 “The prince made a commitment to the king,” Sanbar, 62,
says. “He said, ‘Instead of having 80 percent of my wealth
outside, I’m going to bring it here.’”  
 Kingdom IPO  
 In 2007, Alwaleed put together an initial public offering
for Kingdom Holding on the Saudi stock exchange. The 240-page
prospectus, which appeared on Kingdom Holding’s Web site only in
Arabic, said the company’s listed assets had achieved lifetime
annual returns of 19.9 percent through March 30, 2007.  
 The figure included only shares held at the time, omitting
money losers such as WorldCom that Alwaleed had already sold.  
 “These historical results do not represent all of the
investments that Management has made during the relevant
historical periods,” the prospectus said.  
 The prospectus contained one number that concerned
potential shareholders, Sanbar says. Some 40 percent of its
assets were in Citigroup stock, which was just starting to slip
from its record high of $56.41 in December 2006. Kingdom Holding
assured investors it would pare back the Citigroup stake.  
 “The answer was, we were going to start selling and shift
to regional and Gulf investments,” Sanbar says.  
 Citigroup Crashes  
 Kingdom Holding’s stock jumped 20 percent on its first day
of trading on July 29, 2007, giving the company a market value
of about $20 billion. But Kingdom never sold its Citigroup
shares as planned. From the IPO to the end of 2007, as credit
markets tightened, the bank’s stock plunged by more than a
third.  
 “Buy-and-forget can be deadly to a portfolio,” says
Frederic Dickson, who manages $25 billion, including Citigroup
shares, as chief market strategist at D.A. Davidson & Co. in
Lake Oswego, Oregon.  
 As the deepening credit crisis sent Citigroup shares
tumbling 77 percent in 2008, Alwaleed had one reason to cheer.
At Microsoft’s annual CEO summit in May in Redmond, Washington,
the prince finally got to meet his pen pal, Buffett.  
 During the event, a beaming Alwaleed posed with Buffett for
a photo taken by the prince’s personal photographer. Buffett
hammed it up for the camera, handing his black wallet to the
prince as the flash went off.  
 Photo With Buffett  
 After the conference, Alwaleed sent Buffett a copy of the
photo, and Buffett wrote back to thank the prince. In signing
off, he continued their banter about collaborating.  
 “I hope we can come up with something in which we can work
together,” Buffett said in the June 2008 letter.  
 Alwaleed could use some help from the Oracle of Omaha. In
2008, Kingdom Holding reported a net loss of $7.98 billion. That
year, as the U.S. government injected $45 billion into Citigroup
to save it, the prince began to buy more of the bank’s shares.  
 “At $3, you have to buy,” Alwaleed says. His purchases from
2008 and 2009 turned a profit as Citigroup shares rose to $4.61
on April 26.  
 While Kingdom Holding rebounded to a profit of $107 million
for 2009, it also reported the unrealized loss of $3.53 billion
that carried over from 2008’s rout. Bankler, the forensic
accountant, says the profit could vanish, slashing the company’s
market value and Alwaleed’s net worth, if even a small portion
of those unrealized losses became permanent.  
 Fairmont, Four Seasons  
 “One of the factors of market value is earnings per share,
and they didn’t take that hit,” Bankler says.  
 Alwaleed’s fortunes are improving this year. On April 19,
Citigroup posted a first-quarter profit after two years of
losses, and the next day, Kingdom Holding also reported a gain.
But the company’s shares remain in the doldrums. Since its first
trading day in 2007, Kingdom Holding’s stock has fallen 54
percent to 9.6 Saudi riyals on April 26.  
 “Alwaleed is a major player, always will be,” says Four
Seasons CEO Isadore Sharp, who became fast friends with the
prince after they met on Alwaleed’s yacht in 1994. “The markets
are turning. Things are getting back on track.”  
 Alwaleed says he plans to take his hotel businesses public
in the next few years. He bought his first stakes in Toronto-
based Fairmont Raffles Holdings International and Four Seasons
in 1994. Fairmont also runs the Plaza Hotel, which is jointly
owned by Kingdom Holding and Israeli billionaire Isaac Tshuva’s
Elad Properties.  
 Hotels made up 63 percent of the assets in the prince’s
company in 2009, according to its year-end report.  
 ‘He’s a Hotelier’  
 “He’s a hotelier,” Bankler says. “This is a hotel company.”  
 Alwaleed’s partners in Fairmont, which runs more than 90
hotels worldwide, include Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund and
Colony Capital LLC, the Los Angeles-based buyout firm founded by
billionaire Thomas J. Barrack.  
 The prince is in business with Gates at Four Seasons, which
operates 83 hotels globally. Kingdom Holding and Gates’s
investment company, Cascade Investment LLC, each hold 47.5
percent of the hotel management company. Sharp, who founded Four
Seasons, retains a 5 percent stake.  
 Fairmont and Four Seasons may be ripe for an IPO as the
recession eases and companies stop trimming travel expenses,
says Smedes Rose, an analyst who covers hotels at Keefe,
Bruyette & Woods Inc. in New York.  
 Kingdom Tower  
 “Trends are turning much better for them, and you’d want to
go public into the momentum of a recovering market,” he says.
“Four Seasons has a lot of legs.”  
 Alwaleed says that within two years he also plans to hold
an IPO for his Riyadh-based media company, Rotana Holding, which
includes Arabic movie and music channels and a record label. In
February, Murdoch’s News Corp. agreed to buy 9.1 percent of
Rotana for $70 million.  
 The prince’s Kingdom Tower project in Jeddah, Saudi’s
commercial hub on the Red Sea, faces several obstacles. The
spike-shaped skyscraper anchors a project that includes shopping
malls, a marina, hotels, villas and parks. Alwaleed, who says
the tower will be completed in four to five years, plans to
raise some of the $20 billion that the complex will cost from
equity investors and the sale of Islamic bonds.  
 And he has hired Emaar Properties PJSC -- the Dubai-based
contractor that erected Burj Khalifa -- to manage the project.  
 “The beef is in Saudi Arabia,” Alwaleed says. “In 2010,
we’re seeing ourselves coming out of it.”  
 Burj Khalifa opened in January, just after the Arab emirate
went from being the world’s best-performing real estate market
to the worst. Prices for apartments in the tower have dropped to
less than half of their 2008 peak during the credit crackup.  
 $32.1 Billion Difference  
 Alwaleed may have an even tougher time filling his
skyscraper in Saudi Arabia, says Saud Masud, head of Middle East
research at UBS AG in Dubai. Masud says Saudi laws and customs,
including restrictions on travel, women’s attire and the
purchase of local securities by foreigners, deter visitors and
businesses from entering the nation.  
 “It’s not going to be a straightforward build-it-and-they-
will-come,” Masud says. “What the market needs now is affordable
housing and not kilometer towers.”  
 As the prince rides in his GMC truck around the site of his
Kingdom City residential development, he once again draws
comparisons between himself and Buffett: The prince says they
both buy undervalued assets. The offices of Kingdom Holding and
Berkshire Hathaway have roughly the same square footage, and
both companies have small staffs at their headquarters.  
 Pepsi Versus Coke  
 “I drink Pepsi; he drinks Coke,” Alwaleed says, with a
laugh.  
 The biggest difference between the two men: The investor
from Omaha is worth about $32.1 billion more than the Saudi
prince. Alwaleed’s sluggish performance over the past decade
hasn’t crimped his style, though.  
 In 2012, he’ll take delivery of a custom-fitted double-
decker Airbus A380, becoming the first private buyer of the
world’s biggest airliner. While he may not be the world’s
richest man, he knows how to act like he is.  
 To contact the reporter on this story: Vernon Silver in Rome at
   vtsilver@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The cover of the June 2010 issue of Bloomberg Markets  
                       
                         
                           Kingdom Holding Co. via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The cover of the June 2010 issue of Bloomberg Markets magazine shows a photo of Saudi Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal, left, with Warren Buffett, chief executive officer of Berkshire Hathaway, at Microsoft Corp.'s 2008 CEO summit in Redmond. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The cover of the June 2010 issue of Bloomberg Markets magazine shows a photo of Saudi Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal, left, with Warren Buffett, chief executive officer of Berkshire Hathaway, at Microsoft Corp.'s 2008 CEO summit in Redmond. Source: Kingdom Holding Co. via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Saudi Prince Alwaleed bin Talal plans to sell a stake in media company Rotana Holding to the public within two years as he expands his entertainment, music and news business in the Middle East. Bloomberg's Erik Schatzker reports from Riyadh. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
