-- Amadeus Raises $1.74 Billion Selling IPO Above Midpoint Price
-- Adam Haigh
-- 2010-04-27T22:08:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/amadeus-said-to-attract-bids-from-investors-for-all-stock-on-sale-in-ipo.html

          
          
             Amadeus IT Holding SA raised 1.32
billion euros ($1.74 billion) selling shares above the midpoint
of its original price range in western Europe’s biggest initial
public offering since 2008.  
 The flight-reservations provider controlled by BC Partners
Ltd. and Cinven Ltd. priced 119.68 million shares at 11 euros
each, Amadeus said in a statement today. The Madrid-based
company had narrowed its original price range of 9.20 euros to
12.20 euros twice yesterday, according to two people familiar
with the matter. The deal will give Amadeus a market value of
4.93 billion euros when it starts trading on April 29.  
 The sale comes after Blackstone Group LP’s Travelport Ltd.,
which competes against Madrid-based Amadeus for travel
reservations, postponed its IPO in February. Private-equity
firms have since used a rebound in equity markets to sell assets
after returning less money to clients in 2009 than any year on
record. Brenntag AG, the German chemicals distributor also owned
by BC Partners, and Kabel Deutschland Holding AG both raised
more than $1 billion in offerings last month.  
 “Amadeus is the one that everyone is looking for,” Josef
Schuster, the Chicago-based founder of IPOX Capital Management
LLC and manager of the Direxion Long/Short Global IPO Fund, said
before the final pricing. The offering “underlines the changing
landscape of the European IPO market,” he said.  
 EDP Renovaveis, Essar  
 The initial sale is the biggest in western Europe since EDP
Renovaveis SA’s 1.57 billion-euro deal in June 2008, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Essar Energy Ltd., a unit of
Mumbai-based Essar Group, is also seeking to raise about $2.5
billion later this month in an IPO that would be London’s
largest since 2006.  
 Companies in western Europe last quarter sold $6.1 billion
through IPOs, 69 percent more than U.S. offerings, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. That’s the biggest gap since the last three
months of 2007, when the MSCI World Index of 23 developed
countries climbed to a record.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan
Stanley of New York managed Amadeus’s sale.  
 BC Partners and Cinven of London controlled Amadeus after a
4.34 billion-euro leveraged buyout in 2005. Paris-based Air
France-KLM Group and Deutsche Lufthansa AG of Cologne hold
minority stakes and also sold shares.  
 Debt Repayment  
 Amadeus, whose revenue dropped 1.8 percent to 2.5 billion
euros in 2009, said that it will use the 910 million euros in
gross proceeds from the offering to pay down debt. The company
had net debt of about 3.3 billion euros, 3.6 times its earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization last year.
Bellevue, Washington-based Expedia Plc, the biggest Internet
travel agency, has a ratio of 0.24.  
 The IPO gave Amadeus an enterprise value, or the sum of its
stock and debt minus cash, of about 8.21 times Ebitda, based on
estimates from London-based IPO research firm Independent
International Investment Research Plc and Bloomberg data
compiled before the final pricing.  
 That’s lower than the valuations commanded by Expedia and
Priceline.com Inc. of Norwalk, Connecticut, which trade at 8.46
times and 21.44 times enterprise value-to-Ebitda, respectively,
the data showed.  
 Amadeus was started in 1987 by Air France, Iberia Lineas
Aereas de Espana SA, Lufthansa and SAS to give them an
alternative to distribution systems controlled by U.S. airlines,
according to Hoover’s Inc. About 102,000 travel agencies and
more than 36,000 airline sales offices use its distribution
system, which books flights on more than 450 carriers.  
 Volcano, T-Solar  
 The offering came after a volcanic eruption in Iceland this
month spurred a shutdown of European airspace that forced the
cancellation of more than 100,000 flights. Amadeus priced its
deal on the same day that the Stoxx Europe 600 Index posted its
biggest drop since November and Madrid-based Grupo T-Solar
Global SA postponed its IPO, citing an “uncertain regulatory
situation” in Spain.  
 Private equity-backed IPOs had suffered setbacks in
February after the Stoxx Europe 600 gauge slid for four straight
weeks, with Travelport and New Look Group Plc, owned by Permira
Advisers LLP and Apax Partners Worldwide LLP, both postponing
London offerings.  
 The Stoxx Europe 600 measure has since rebounded 10 percent
from its 2010 low on Feb. 5.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The Amadeus IT Holding SA headquarters  
                       
                         
                           Amadeus via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The Amadeus IT Holding SA, headquarters stand in Madrid, in this undated handout photograph released to the media on March 23, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The Amadeus IT Holding SA, headquarters stand in Madrid, in this undated handout photograph released to the media on March 23, 2010. Source: Amadeus via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
