-- Ambac Loses U.S. Court Bid to Force Las Vegas Monorail Out of Bankruptcy
-- Steven Church
-- 2010-04-26T23:20:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/ambac-loses-u-s-court-bid-to-force-las-vegas-monorail-out-of-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             Ambac Assurance Corp. lost a bid to
dismiss the bankruptcy of Las Vegas Monorail Co. when a judge
ruled against the bond insurer.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Bruce Markel in Las Vegas rejected
Ambac’s argument that Las Vegas Monorail improperly filed a
Chapter 11 bankruptcy, which was written for corporations. Ambac
claimed the not-for-profit monorail was really an arm of the
state of Nevada.  
 The monorail “has no taxing powers,” Markel wrote in his
decision, issued today. “It has no power of eminent domain. It
has no sovereign immunity. It has to obtain licenses and
franchises just as if it were a purely private party.”  
 After Las Vegas Monorail filed for bankruptcy in January,
Ambac said in court papers the case could cost the New York-
based bond insurer almost $1.2 billion. Ambac insured at least
$451 million in tax-exempt bonds issued in 2000 by the Nevada
Department of Business and Industry when Las Vegas Monorail
bought the train line, which carries tourists between gambling
resorts near the Las Vegas Strip.  
 Ambac argued that Monorail should have filed a bankruptcy
under Chapter 9 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which is more
advantageous to bondholders. Chapter 9 is reserved for
municipalities.  
 ‘Negotiated Transaction’  
 Bondholders may have an advantage in a Chapter 9 bankruptcy
because it is more complicated for a company to discharge debt
under those rules than under Chapter 11, Ambac attorney William
Smith said in an interview in February.  
 Chapter 9 “forces a negotiated transaction,” Smith said.
For example, in the monorail bankruptcy, the company’s main
debts are so-called public purpose bonds, which are tax exempt
and normally only issued by governmental institutions.  
 The revenue stream from the monorail, like the revenue from
most public purpose-bond projects, is restricted to running and
maintaining the trains and repaying bondholders. Under Chapter
9, such a revenue stream can’t be ended or diverted for other
purposes, Smith said. Under Chapter 11, the money could be, he
said.  
 In an e-mail, Peter Poillon, managing director of investor
relations at Ambac, declined to comment.  
 The monorail is a Nevada nonprofit public benefit
corporation created to finance and operate the 3.9-mile-long
driverless transportation system that runs from near the Las
Vegas Strip to the convention center. Although the monorail’s
revenue covers operating expenses, it has never been sufficient
to service debt, according to a court filing by Chief Executive
Officer Curtis L. Myles III.  
 The monorail earned $26.9 million from riders last year,
according to court documents.  
 The monorail said in its bankruptcy petition that its
assets were worth $10 million to $50 million and it had debt of
$500 million to $1 billion.  
 The case is In re Las Vegas Monorail, 10-10464, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        