-- American Air Delays Inaugural Chicago-Beijing Flight
-- Mary Schlangenstein
-- 2010-04-26T21:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/american-airlines-delays-inaugural-chicago-beijing-flight-on-lack-of-slots.html

          
          
             American Airlines said it delayed
the start of its daily Chicago-to-Beijing nonstop service until
May 4 from today because of a dispute over takeoff and landing
slots in the Chinese city.  
 Customers are being rebooked on other flights and offered a
full refund or a chance to fly at a later date, the Fort Worth,
Texas-based unit of AMR Corp. said in a statement. American said
it canceled the flights after Chinese authorities gave it slots
for a 2:20 a.m. Beijing arrival and a 4:40 a.m. departure.  
 “That just doesn’t work, because you couldn’t connect
passengers to other flights in a timely fashion,” Mary Frances
Fagan, a spokeswoman for American, said in an interview.
“They’d be hanging around and waiting for hours on both ends.
It’s not commercially viable based on what other competitors are
operating. We’d be out of sync with others.”  
 American said it applied for the slots at Beijing Capital
International Airport in October 2009 and has been negotiating
for new times since then. The airline held off canceling today’s
flight in expectation it would be able to negotiate different
times, Fagan said.  
 The Chinese Embassy in Washington didn’t immediately
respond to a call and e-mail seeking a comment.  
 Today’s flight had been set to depart Chicago at 11:25 a.m.
and arrive in Beijing at 1:55 p.m. the next day. The return
flight would have departed from Beijing at 4:50 p.m. local time
and arrived in the U.S. city at 4:40 p.m. Chicago time.  
 The airline said it’s “hopeful” the issue will be
resolved in time for the May 4 flight from Chicago. The initial
service from Beijing was reset to May 5.  
 The carrier said the new service “had been approved by the
governments of both the United States and China.”  
 AMR rose 6 cents to $7.84 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 1.4 percent
this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        