-- American Gas Association Backs Proposed CFTC Limits on Energy Speculation
-- Asjylyn Loder
-- 2010-04-26T17:08:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/american-gas-association-backs-proposed-cftc-limits-on-energy-speculation.html

          
          
             The American Gas Association, which
represents 195 energy companies that serve 64 million customers,
said today that speculation should be curbed in the markets for
natural gas, crude oil and gasoline.  
 The Commodity Futures Trading Commission in January
proposed limits that would cap the number of energy contracts a
single trader could hold. The public comment period on the
proposal ends today. The proposal followed hearings last year
amid concerns that speculators drove oil prices to a record high
of $147.27 a barrel in 2008.  
 “Price volatility, sudden increases in price in
particular, present significant challenges for both consumers
and the gas utilities that service them,” the association said
in a statement to the commission today.  
 The commission is debating tighter limits in the regulated
commodities market even as the U.S. Senate considers legislation
that would expand the commission’s authority to the $605
trillion over-the-counter derivatives market. The commission
proposal has drawn more than 1,000 letters of support from U.S.
consumers, while some industry groups say position limits will
chase business overseas and decrease liquidity.  
 Commission Chairman Gary Gensler has pushed for tighter
rules on energy speculators, calling for strict limits on who is
exempt from regulation. He has asked Congress for an extension
of authority to the over-the-counter market, where traders can
sidestep restrictions by buying unregulated, bilateral
contracts.  
 Online Campaign  
 Americans for Financial Reform sponsored an online petition
and letter-writing campaign in support of position limits and
more than 1,000 people responded with letters to the commission.  
 “Wall Street’s speculative trading in oil not only hurts
the economy, but hurts every American who pays excessive prices
at the pump, for groceries, home heating oil and everything
related to transportation,” Trudy Charboneau, a retired nurse
who lives in Exeter, Rhode Island, said in a letter.  
 Charboneau’s home heating oil has become her single largest
expense, she said in a telephone interview. In 2008, her heating
bills doubled to $600 a month.  
 “It is a huge impact for me,” said Charboneau, 68. “I’m
concerned because I felt like one of the issues that drove oil
costs so high a couple of years ago was speculation.”  
 Fuel distributors and the American Feed Industry
Association have also written to the commission to support the
proposal.  
 Commodity Speculation  
 Speculation is a necessary part of the commodity markets,
and there is no evidence that speculators caused record-high oil
prices, or that position limits would prevent future price
spikes, the Futures Industry Association said in a letter to the
commission last month. The association opposes position limits,
and said limits would harm the markets.  
 “Price manipulation corrodes the public interests in price
discovery and hedging. It can never be tolerated,” the Futures
Industry Association said in a letter sent to the commission
last month. “But speculation is not manipulation.”  
 If approved by the CFTC, the so-called position limits
would apply to physically settled and cash-settled futures in
light, sweet crude oil, Henry Hub natural gas, and New York
Harbor gasoline and No. 2 heating oil. The contracts are traded
on the New York Mercantile Exchange and the Atlanta-based
Intercontinental Exchange Inc.  
 Trading Limits  
 The commission proposed a cumulative, all-month limit that
would cap traders at 10 percent of the open interest of the
first 25,000 contracts and 2.5 percent of the open interest
beyond 25,000. The single-month limit would be two-thirds of the
aggregate cap. Limits in the spot month would hold investors to
25 percent of the open interest in the future for physical
delivery.  
 A trader with spot month cash-settled contracts could hold
five times as many contracts as long as they held no physically
settled contracts in the spot month. There are different limits
for small reporting markets and new markets. Limits would apply
to individual exchanges, spot-month contracts, all-months
contracts, and would include a cumulative cap that would apply
across the U.S. exchanges.  
 Swaps dealers would no longer receive confidential hedge
exemptions that allow them to exceed position limits, and
instead would need “limited risk management exemptions” that
would be reviewed monthly by the commission and made public
after six months, the commission said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        