-- APX Advises European Utilities to Follow RWE's Lead on Power Transparency
-- Lars Paulsson
-- 2010-04-26T09:52:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/apx-advises-european-utilities-to-follow-rwe-s-lead-on-power-transparency.html

          
          
             GDF Suez SA, Vattenfall AB and
other electricity generators in the Netherlands and Belgium
should follow RWE AG’s plan to disclose more data about power
plant operations, energy exchange APX BV said.  
 Essent, a unit of Germany’s second-biggest utility, is
preparing to publish data from individual power plants. That
would mirror steps by RWE, which has released minute-by-minute
information since 2007 in Germany, Europe’s biggest market.
Vattenfall’s Nuon unit, the second- biggest Dutch utility, said
it has no such plans.  
 “I think the signal provided by Essent is very positive,”
Bert den Ouden, chief executive officer of APX, said in an April
15 interview. “It has to be everyone without exception. It’s
not enough to have some providing data and others not.”  
 Energy traders seek real-time data on planned and unplanned
power plant halts, which influences prices. E.ON AG, Germany’s
biggest utility, began to publish data in February 2007. RWE,
the country’s second-largest power company, followed that same
year, as did Vattenfall AB in January 2008. RWE now updates
generation data on its German plants every minute and releases a
list of outages every 15 minutes.  
 RWE bought Essent, the biggest Dutch utility, on Sept. 30
for 7.3 billion euros ($9.7 billion).  
 Disclosure standards and requirements vary from market to
market. The European Union has yet to set mandatory rules for
disclosing power halts.  
 Setting the Standard  
 In the U.K., power plant data is published in near real-
time on National Grid Plc’s Web site, while Nord Pool ASA, the
Nordic power exchange, publishes outages as far as three years
ahead. The two markets should be the standard for the rest of
Europe, Den Ouden said.  
 APX agreed to buy Belgian power exchange Belpex in a deal
announced on April 19, which may set joint transparency rules,
Den Ouden said. The markets, together with France, have been
linked in a market-coupling project since 2006, which means that
electricity automatically flows to the more expensive market.  
 “I think our merger could spark that interest a little bit
in the Benelux market” and increase transparency, Den Ouden
said. “We should do it together,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        