-- Aquino Says Only Fraud Can Stop Him Winning Philippine Presidential Poll
-- Haslinda Amin
-- 2010-04-26T23:07:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/aquino-says-only-fraud-can-stop-him-winning-philippine-presidential-poll.html

          
          
             Philippine presidential frontrunner
Benigno Aquino said only fraud can stop him winning next month’s
election and any such attempt would trigger unrest comparable
with the protests that swept his mother to power 24 years ago.  
 The 50-year-old son of former president Corazon Aquino, who
has led opinion surveys since entering the race last year,
criticized how a switch to electronic voting machines is being
implemented and said a declaration that he is the loser of the
May 10 poll would bring supporters onto the streets.  
 “If we have a correct counting of the votes, I think we
will be very victorious,” said Aquino, whose mother toppled
dictator Ferdinand Marcos amid protests that followed a rigged
election in 1986. If “the people’s will is frustrated,”
demonstrations could make this month’s protests in Thailand seem
“mild” by comparison, he said in an interview in Manila
yesterday.  
 Aquino, known as “Noynoy,” claims his closest rival,
property tycoon and Senator Manuel Villar, is secretly backed by
outgoing President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, and has accused both
of corruption. A contested election result might disrupt efforts
to tackle a record budget deficit, reduce Asia’s third-highest
unemployment rate and increase foreign investment.  
 “Markets would react negatively to any scenario that puts
in question the credibility of the elections,” said Paul Joseph
Garcia, chief investment officer at ING Investment Management
Ltd. in Manila. ‘There’s going to be selling pressure.’’  
 The Philippine Stock Exchange Index has risen 7.9 percent
this year, lagging behind a 16 percent jump in Indonesia’s
Jakarta Composite Index and outpacing a 4.1 percent advance for
the SET Index in Thailand, where as many as 26 people were
killed in anti-government protests this month.  
 Coup Attempts  
 Aquino entered the race following the death of his mother
from cancer in August, and was propelled to the top of the polls
by an outpouring of nostalgia for the former president. He
widened his lead over Villar to 15 percentage points in a survey
conducted from April 18 to 20 by the Manila Standard. The survey
had a margin of error of 2 percentage points, the newspaper
reported yesterday.  
 Opponents say Aquino has achieved little in 12 years as a
legislator. Villar, who rose from poverty to build a fortune
estimated at $530 million by Forbes magazine, says he is “up
against someone who has no experience, has not demonstrated any
managerial ability, and has not led anything.”  
 Aquino said his lack of legislative achievements reflect
his refusal to compromise with vested interests. He cited
business experience selling Nike Inc. products and said that
helping his mother fend off coup attempts by negotiating with
wavering soldiers is evidence of his leadership skills.  
 Budget Deficits  
 “I don’t claim sole credit for having withstood the
coups,” he said in the living room of his home, decorated with
water colors painted by his mother. “But I think I played an
important part. They chose our side.”  
 Aquino has lived in the same house in Quezon City all his
life except for three years spent in Boston. Their stay ended
when his father, known as “Ninoy,” returned to Manila in 1983
and was assassinated on arrival, triggering the anti-Marcos
protests that catapulted his wife to the presidency. Today,
Manila’s international airport is named after Ninoy Aquino and
his face appears on Philippine banknotes.  
 Aquino said he intends to increase tax collection to 15
percent of gross domestic product from 13 percent “practically
instantly” by targeting tax evaders, raising funds to plough
into job creation, education and health care. He also said he
may adopt an “open skies” policy to boost tourism.  
 Budget Surplus  
 The government has run an annual budget surplus only four
times in the past 24 years, constraining its ability to fight
poverty in a nation where one in four people live on less than
$1.25 a day. The budget deficit was a record 298.5 billion pesos
($6.75 billion) last year, and is projected to stay close to
that this year. The unemployment rate stands at 7.3 percent.  
 Aquino also said he plans to raise judges’ salaries and
improve implementation of a law that would reward and punish tax
and customs officials based on whether they met targets, part of
his strategy to stamp out graft.  
 Meanwhile, he is seeking to extend his lead in the polls by
emphasizing his family’s incorruptible image and painting his
main rival as corrupt. Villar, 60, was ousted as Senate leader
in 2008 amid allegations he diverted a road to benefit one of
his property projects. He has denied any impropriety.  
 Aquino has also joined opposition politicians who allege
that President Arroyo rigged her election in 2004, in part with
the help of the country’s election commission. Arroyo, who’s
barred from standing for re-election, has spent three years of
her six-year term fighting attempts to impeach her on vote-
rigging and corruption allegations.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Francisco Alcuaz Jr. in Manila at 
 falcuaz@bloomberg.net ;
Haslinda Amin in Singapore at   hamin1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Benigno "Noynoy" Aquino, Philippine senator and presidential candidate, speaks during an interview at his house in Quezon City, the Philippines, April 26, 2010. Photographer: Edwin Tuyay/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Benigno "Noynoy" Aquino in an interview  
                       
                         
                           Edwin Tuyay/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Benigno "Noynoy" Aquino, Philippine senator and presidential candidate, speaks during an interview at his house in Quezon City, the Philippines, April 26, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Benigno "Noynoy" Aquino, Philippine senator and presidential candidate, speaks during an interview at his house in Quezon City, the Philippines, April 26, 2010. Photographer: Edwin Tuyay/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
