-- Argentine Farm Loans Jump at HSBC, Galicia as Growers Reap Record Soy Crop
-- Rodrigo Orihuela
-- 2010-04-26T16:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/argentine-farm-loans-jump-at-hsbc-galicia-as-growers-reap-record-soy-crop.html

          
          
             Argentina’s record soybean crop is
prompting Banco de Galicia y Buenos Aires SA and HSBC Holdings
Plc to boost lending to farmers after the worst drought in at
least 70 years pared demand last year.  
 Galicia, Argentina’s second-biggest farm lender, expects
agricultural loans to increase about 40 percent this year after
zero growth in 2009, said Gaston Bourdieu, head of wholesale
businesses at the bank. HSBC forecasts an expansion of as much
as 30 percent to a record, said Carlos Beute, head of
Agribusiness at the lender’s Argentine unit. Both declined to
disclose how much the banks will lend.  
 “We expect a very good year,” Bourdieu said in an April
22 interview. “This is a bit like soccer or Formula 1: whoever
is the leader must defend the position.”  
 Soybean farmers in Argentina, the world’s third-biggest
producer of the oilseed, will harvest a record 54.5 million
metric tons this year, 65 percent more than in 2009, according
to the Buenos Aires Cereals Exchange. The bourse forecasts corn
growers to reap 21.4 million tons, up 69 percent from last year.  
 Agriculture represents about a third of HSBC’s lending to
small- and medium-sized companies in Argentina, Beute said in an
April 23 telephone interview from Buenos Aires.  
 Banco Frances also expects lending to agricultural
producers to rise as much as 30 percent to a record this year,
Agribusiness Manager Daniel Caimi said. Agriculture accounts for
about 30 percent of Banco Frances’s total lending in the South
American country, Caimi said.  
 ‘Recovered’ Ground  
 “Our previous record was at the end of the 2007-2008
season, and we should be passing that this year,” Caimi said
April 22 by telephone from Buenos Aires. “Agricultural business
shrunk over the past two years and now ground must be
recovered.”  
 Banco Santander Rio estimates it will lend its 10,000
agricultural customers about 20 percent more than last year,
Agribusiness Manager Pablo Bullrich said in an April 22
interview.  
 “Our goal now is to increase the amount of business we do
besides loans, such as increasing the number of transactions and
deposits,” Bullrich said. “Agricultural clients aren’t prone
to saving money in the bank and we want to change this.”  
 Farmers tend to start taking credit between May and July,
Bullrich said.  
 “Although there will be much more liquidity this year, I
believe we will be able to maintain our number of loans
granted,” he said.  
 State-owned Banco de la Nacion is Argentina’s biggest
lender to the farm industry. The U.S. and Brazil are the world’s
largest soybean producers.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        