-- Marubeni Reaches Agreement With Russian Companies to Boost Grain Shipments
-- Ichiro Suzuki
-- 2010-04-26T08:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/marubeni-reaches-agreement-with-russian-companies-to-boost-grain-shipments.html

          
          
             Japanese trading company
Marubeni Corp. has made an agreement with grain companies in
Russia, the third-biggest wheat exporter, to increase shipments.  
 The company has established an alliance with Khabarovsk-
based grain collection company Amurzerno and Vladivostok-based
export terminal operator Fetexim, Marubeni said in a statement
today. Through the tie-up, the Tokyo-based company plans to
raise imports of Russian feed wheat to as much as 150,000 metric
tons in the year to March 31, 2011, from 50,000 tons a year
earlier, company spokesman Yo Nomura said.  
 “We will discuss details” about developing crop varieties
suitable for Asian markets and joint investment in the grain
business, Nomura said by phone.  
 Wheat exporters including the U.S., Canada and Australia
are facing increased competition from lower-cost supplies from
Russia and Ukraine. Feed wheat from former Soviet Union
countries is also intensifying competition with U.S. corn,
U.S. Grains Council President Thomas Dorr said on April 6.  
 Japan, the largest corn importer, purchased 11 million tons
of the grain for feed use last year, Ministry of Finance data
show. The U.S. supplied 10.6 million tons, or 96 percent of the
total, while Ukraine shipped 212,458 tons.  
 Sojitz Corp., a Japanese trading company, signed an
agreement last year with the Russian Grain Union, a sales
promotion organization, to begin wheat shipments from Russia
to Asian markets.  
 Japanese trading companies including Sumitomo Corp. and
Itochu Corp. are seeking to expand overseas grain sales through
alliances with foreign partners as food consumption in Japan,
the largest grain importer, shrinks because of a declining and
aging population.  
 Rising incomes and improving diets are boosting demand for
breads and noodles in the rest of Asia as wheat prices drop
because of a global surplus.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Ichiro Suzuki in Tokyo 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        