-- Stocks Rise as Greek Debt Concerns Abate
-- Anna Kitanaka
-- 2010-04-26T07:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/asian-stocks-commodities-rally-on-economic-recovery-greece-yen-weakens.html

          
          
             Stocks climbed, led by the biggest
gain in the Nikkei 225 Stock Average in seven weeks, and
commodities rallied as economic reports pointed to faster growth
and concerns about Greece’s debt abated. The yen weakened.  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index increased 1.6 percent to 127.25
and the Stoxx Euro 600 rose 1 percent to 270.14 as of 4 p.m. in
Tokyo. The Nikkei jumped 2.3 percent, the most since March 5.
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures gained 0.1 percent. The yen
fell to 125.96 per euro in Tokyo from 125.73 yen in New York on
April 23. Oil in New York rose 0.4 percent to $85.42 a barrel,
extending a 1.7 percent advance from April 23. Copper climbed
1.2 percent and rubber gained 1.6 percent.  
 Investor sentiment improved after Greece moved toward
securing a financial rescue package and a forecast for Toyota
Motor Corp.’s results indicated it may post an unexpected
operating profit versus an operating loss for the fiscal year.
Sales of new U.S. homes surged 27 percent in March and orders
for most durable goods climbed, reports on April 23 showed.  
 “The economic data has certainly outperformed a lot of
some people’s very skeptical expectations,” said Tim Leung, who
helps manage about $1.5 billion at IG Investment Ltd. in Hong
Kong. “There are good statistics coming out of the U.S. in
terms of economic recovery. We are cautiously optimistic.”  
 The Nikkei’s increase was the largest among benchmark
gauges in the Asia-Pacific region. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index
climbed 1.5 percent and Taiwan’s Taiex advanced 1.9 percent.  
 Japanese Exporters  
 Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest carmaker, jumped
3.4 percent to 3,690 yen in Tokyo. The carmaker probably had
operating profit of as much as 50 billion yen ($531 million) for
the year ended March 31, Nikkei English News reported on April
24. The company on Feb. 4 forecast an operating loss of 20
billion yen. Toyota spokeswoman Ririko Takeuchi declined to
comment.  
 Japanese exporters also advanced as the dollar strengthened
after U.S. sales of new homes gained faster than estimated,
boosting optimism in an economic recovery. Canon Inc., a camera
maker that got 29 percent of its 2009 sales in the Americas,
climbed 3.5 percent to 4,395 yen. In Seoul, LG Innotek Co., a
South Korean maker of electronic parts, surged 9.6 percent to
159,500 won, set for the highest close since Sept. 7, after
first-quarter profit more than doubled.  
 Sales of new U.S. homes soared 27 percent in March,
climbing the most in 47 years to a level that surpassed the
highest forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Orders for goods meant to last at least three years, excluding
cars and aircraft, gained 2.8 percent.  
 Weaker Yen  
 The yen fell against all of its major counterparts after a
report showed U.K. house prices rose for a ninth straight month
and before data forecast to show the U.S. housing market is
stabilizing. Japan’s currency sank 0.4 percent to 87.496 against
the Australian dollar, the weakest since September 2008. The yen
weakened to 94.27 per dollar from 93.97 yen in New York.  
 “Data across the globe underscore the economy is
recovering, which then boosts risk sentiment,” said Koichi
Kurose, chief strategist in Tokyo at Resona Bank Ltd., a unit of
Japan’s fourth-largest banking group. “Buoyant risk sentiment
will encourage investors to sell the yen and re-invest in
higher-yielding assets.”  
 The pound climbed 0.8 percent to 145.61 yen, the highest
level since Jan. 27, after London-based Hometrack Ltd. said
today the average cost of a home in England and Wales increased
0.2 percent in April from the previous month. Sterling rose to
$1.5447 from $1.5377 on April 23.  
 Emerging Markets  
 The S&P/Case-Shiller home-price index in the U.S. climbed
1.3 percent in February, the first increase since December 2006,
a Bloomberg News survey of economists showed ahead of the data’s
release tomorrow.  
 Asian emerging-market currencies climbed as improving
economic data globally boosted Asia’s trade outlook and
increased demand for the region’s currencies.  
 “The dollar is under pressure across the board,” said
Gerrard Katz, Hong Kong-based head of foreign-exchange trading
at Standard Chartered Plc. “Data continues to improve in
general. Risk appetite trades are doing well at the moment.”  
 The South Korean won climbed 0.5 percent to 1,103.80 per
dollar and the Malaysian ringgit gained 0.4 percent to 3.1778.
Twelve-month non-deliverable yuan forwards climbed 0.1 percent
to 6.6068 per dollar, reflecting bets the currency will
strengthen 3.3 percent from the spot rate of 6.827.  
 China Stimulus  
 Chinese officials this weekend pledged to extend their
“proactive” fiscal measures and maintain a “relatively easy”
monetary policy, saying the global economic recovery remains
tentative. China will announce in August a new stimulus package
of possibly 4 trillion yuan ($586 billion), the China Business
newspaper reported on its Web site. Calls to Li Pumin, a
spokesman for the National Development and Reform Commission,
weren’t answered today.  
 Copper rose for a second day as Greece moved toward
securing an emergency aid package. Three-month copper on the
London Metal Exchange advanced to $7,840 a metric ton.  
 Greece’s Finance Minister George Papaconstantinou said
money will be available “rather soon” and his country wouldn’t
restructure its debt. He was speaking to reporters in Washington
yesterday as he negotiated a three-year loan plan with the
International Monetary Fund and European governments.  
 Crude oil rose for a fifth day on speculation demand will
increase as the world economy recovers from recession.  
 “Data on the economic side, especially in the U.S., are
getting much, much better than expected,” said Tetsu Emori, a
commodity fund manager at Astmax Co. in Tokyo. “Ninety could be
reachable, but over $90 to $95 would probably be difficult
unless there are more strong factors on the fundamental side
appearing.”  
 Treasuries fell for a third day, the longest run of losses
in two weeks, as the U.S. prepared to sell a record $129 billion
of notes this week. The yield on the 10-year note rose one basis
points to 3.82 percent, according to BGCantor Market Data.  
 The Federal Reserve has kept its target rate in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008. Policy makers will
complete their next meeting on April 28.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- John Lipsky, first deputy managing director at the International Monetary Fund, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about Greece's debt crisis and the weekend meetings in Washington of finance ministers and central bankers from around the world.
     Greece moved toward securing an emergency aid package before debt payments come due in mid-May as Finance Minister George Papaconstantinou warned investors they will "lose their shirts" if they bet the cash-strapped nation will default. (This is an excerpt of the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
