-- Massey Energy Directors Sued by Pension Fund Over Effects of Mine Accident
-- Sophia Pearson
-- 2010-04-26T21:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/massey-energy-directors-sued-by-pension-fund-over-effects-of-mine-accident.html

          
          
             Massey Energy Co., the largest coal
producer in central Appalachia, was sued by a pension fund over
claims that directors’ failure to address poor safety conditions
led to this month’s accident that killed 29 miners.  
 Massey directors breached their fiduciary duties by
disregarding safety regulations and incurring more than
$25 million in assessed violations by the U.S. Mine Safety and
Health Administration, the New Jersey Building Laborers Pension
Fund said in a complaint filed April 23 in Delaware Chancery
Court. The failure to act caused the company “severe
reputational harm,” the pension fund said.  
 “Given Massey’s chronic unwillingness and failure to
adhere to mining safety regulations, this tragedy did not come
as a surprise to many,” according to the fund. It asked for the
removal of Massey Chief Executive Officer Don Blankenship.  
 Massey officials didn’t return a phone call seeking comment
on the suit. Company director Bobby R. Inman said today in a
news conference on benefits for the deceased miners’ families
that Blankenship has the “full support” of the board.  
 The April 5 explosion at the company’s Upper Big Branch
mine near Montcoal, West Virginia, caused the highest death toll
in a U.S. mining accident in 26 years. The cause hasn’t been
determined. Massey said it expects a second-quarter charge of as
much as $212 million as a result of the disaster.  
 Upper Big Branch  
 The Upper Big Branch mine, about 46 miles (76 kilometers)
south of Charleston, West Virginia, is run by Massey’s
Performance Coal Co. unit. The nonunion mine opened in October
1994. It had two previous fatalities in the past decade,
according to a state Web site.  
 Federal safety inspectors in the past three years cited the
operation hundreds of times for violations including the buildup
of explosive methane and coal dust, according to the pension
fund’s complaint. Massey avoided closing the mine by
“endlessly” appealing the citations and fines, according to
the complaint.  
 Directors’ “misconduct has already severely affected
Massey’s reputation and goodwill,” the pension fund said in the
complaint, noting that the company has $25.6 million in unpaid
fines since 2005.  
 The case is a so-called derivative suit, which would return
any recovery to the company. The fund asked for a court order
directing the board of directors to investigate and assess the
safety of all Massey mines and remove Blankenship.  
 Blankenship’s Actions  
 The actions of Blankenship, who has a reputation for
battling with mine regulators and unions, and his fellow
directors have resulted in the company’s racking up “nearly
$27 million in fines” for providing unsafe working conditions,
the suit said.  
 Directors said last week that they support the CEO.  
 “During times like these, a change in senior management is
not appropriate or in the best interest of our members and
shareholders,” Inman, the board’s lead independent director,
said April 22 in a statement.  
 “The board has stubbornly refused to oppose Blankenship’s
policy of denial and obstruction,” the fund said in today’s
filing.  
 Massey fell 84 cents, or 1.9 percent, to $43.61 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Shares more
than tripled in the past year.  
 The case is New Jersey Building Laborers Pension Fund v.
Blankenship, CA5430, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 6 (Bloomberg) -- An explosion at a coal mine in West Virginia killed 25 workers and left four missing, said Massey Energy Co., the owner of the pit. The disaster was the worst of its kind since 1984. Bloomberg's Peter Cook reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
