-- Masterskill Plans to Add Nursing Colleges, Pay First Dividends From 2010
-- Chan Tien Hin
-- 2010-04-26T05:46:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/masterskill-plans-to-add-nursing-colleges-pay-first-dividends-from-2010.html

          
          
             Masterskill Education Group Bhd.,
the biggest operator of non-government nursing colleges in
Malaysia, said it will start paying dividends this year as it
expands locally and abroad to boost earnings.  
 The company plans to pay as much as 60 percent of its
after-tax profit this year as dividends, according to its
listing prospectus launched today. It aims to raise as much as
799 million ringgit ($250 million) in the country’s biggest
initial public offer so far this year.  
 “It’s a sexy organization,” Masterskill Group Chief
Executive Officer Edmund Santhara told reporters in Kuala Lumpur
today. There’s “a lot of excitement” for this IPO, which will
be an “impetus to our growth plans, he said.  
 If successful, the share sale would be bigger than JCY
International Bhd.’s 703.8 million-ringgit initial public
offering in February. Larger listings are expected later this
year, including offerings by two units of state oil and gas
company Petroliam Nasional Bhd.  
 Masterskill, which owns five campuses with 17,000 students,
reported a 35 percent increase in after-tax profit of 97.4
million ringgit in 2009 compared with a year earlier, driven by
revenue of 273.4 million ringgit, according to the listing
prospectus.  
 It will offer a mix of new and existing shares, the
prospectus said. The company itself expects to receive 143.5
million ringgit while existing shareholders would get up to 574
million ringgit, depending on the final number of shares sold,
it said. The owners selling shares include Santhara, Masterskill
Holdings Ltd. and Ladang Naga Sdn.  
 The company is expanding its business to help meet a
“persistent” shortage of nurses in the country, it said in its
listing prospectus. It is setting up an additional campus in
Seri Alam in the southern Johor state this year which will
increase the group’s total student capacity to 38,000 from
36,000, it said.  
 Masterskill will also buy land for a new campus within the
Klang Valley, which will be funded by the proceeds from the
share sale, it said. It aims to expand overseas in countries
such as India, said Santhara, without elaborating.  
 With assistance from Soraya Permatasari in Kuala Lumpur. Editor:
Barry Porter  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        