-- Australia Begins Talks on Islamic Finance as Industry Nears $1 Trillion
-- Sarah McDonald
-- 2010-04-26T06:20:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/australia-begins-talks-on-islamic-finance-as-industry-nears-1-trillion.html

          
          
             Australia’s Assistant Treasurer
Nick Sherry said he is leading a trade delegation to the Middle
East as the South-Pacific nation seeks to attract Islamic
finance investment.  
 Sherry will hold four days of talks with officials,
regulators and bankers in the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and
Bahrain, according to an e-mailed statement today.  
 “My message is that in Australia we have what the
wholesale Islamic finance market is calling out for,” Sherry
said in the statement. “I will be focused very heavily on high-
level talks on Australia’s tax treatment, regulation, promotion
and export of Islamic finance, banking and insurance.”  
 The Islamic finance industry’s assets will keep expanding
globally and may grow to at least $5 trillion from its current
$950 billion, Moody’s Investors Service said this month. An
Australian government report last year found that removing
regulatory barriers to the development of Islamic finance
products would provide the nation with better access to a
“major source of offshore capital.”  
 Interest payments are banned under Islam’s Shariah law,
which instead promotes profit-sharing agreements or structures
that resemble rentals. Such deals are typically backed by
physical assets, including natural resources like Australia’s.  
 Zaid Ibrahim & Co., Malaysia’s largest law firm, said in
December that it would open overseas offices in Sydney and
Melbourne due to increased demand for Islamic finance advisory
services.  
 Westpac Banking Corp. plans to offer a Shariah-compliant
commodity-trading service targeting Islamic institutions, the
Sydney Morning Herald reported in February.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        