-- Bank of Ireland Seeks to Raise $4.5 Billion as Bad Real-Estate Debts Surge
-- Dara Doyle
-- 2010-04-26T09:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/bank-of-ireland-seeks-to-raise-4-5-billion-as-bad-real-estate-debts-surge.html

          
          
             Bank of Ireland Plc, the country’s
biggest bank by market value, plans to raise as much as 3.4
billion euros ($4.5 billion) to bolster capital as real-estate
losses surge.  
 The company aims to sell 500 million euros in shares to a
group of institutional investors and an additional 1.9 billion
euros of stock in a rights offer, the Dublin-based lender said
in a statement today. The bank also plans to convert some of the
government’s preference shares into equity, raising 1.04 billion
euros. The state will retain a maximum stake of 36 percent.  
 Ireland’s banks need 31 billion euros in capital after
“appalling” lending decisions left the country’s financial
system on the brink of collapse, Finance Minister Brian Lenihan
said last month. Bank of Ireland said its plan will help raise a
total of 2.8 billion euros after expenses and buying back state
warrants.  
 “There may be some disappointment at the dilution, but
it’s well anticipated and overall the transaction terms look
attractive,” said Sebastian Orsi, an analyst at Merrion Capital
in Dublin. “The money has been effectively raised now. I’d
expect a good level of take-up of the rights.”  
 Bank of Ireland fell 8 cents, or 4.4 percent, to 1.72 euros
by 10:23 a.m. in Dublin trading, giving the company a market
value of 2 billion euros.  
 The placement of stock with institutional investors and the
conversion of government preference shares will be at a price of
1.53 euros, or 15 percent less than the April 23 closing price.  
 Bad Bank  
 The government pumped 3.5 billion euros into the bank last
year to help keep it alive after Irish real-estate values fell
by half on average. Lenihan has also set up a so-called bad
bank, the National Asset Management Agency, to purge lenders of
toxic loans.  
 The agency is buying debt with a book value of 80 billion
euros, about half the size of the Irish economy. In the first
tranche of loans, NAMA is buying loans with a nominal value of
1.93 billion euros loans from Bank of Ireland at a discount of
about 36 percent.  
 “Trading conditions in our core markets in Ireland and the
U.K. in the first quarter of our 2010 financial year remain
challenging though economic conditions have recently shown some
signs of stabilization,” Bank of Ireland said in a separate
statement today.  
 Tougher Standards  
 The country’s financial regulator is imposing higher
capital requirements on lenders to help them withstand losses.
Bank of Ireland said the fundraising will boost its equity tier
one ratio, a measure of financial strength, to 8 percent from
5.3 percent at the end of last year.  
 “The target was for them to go to the market and raise
money, so they’ve done that,” Lenihan said in an interview with
Dublin-based RTE radio today. “It’s a sign of international
confidence.”  
 The bank is being advised by IBI Corporate Finance and
Credit Suisse Group AG, the statement shows. Credit Suisse, UBS
AG, Deutsche Bank AG, Citigroup Inc. and Davy are acting as
joint bookrunners and underwriters.  
 “The big news today is the placing of 500 million euros of
stock with institutions and demand for this will be a good
barometer for the level of interest in Ireland Plc again by
international investors,” said James Forbes, senior equity
strategist at Irish Life Investment Managers in Dublin. “The
company looks to have ticked all the boxes and is well down its
re-capitalization road.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Bank of Ireland headquarters sits in Dublin, on Oct. 1, 2009. Photographer: Frantzesco Kangaris/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Brian Lenihan, Ireland's finance minister  
                       
                         
                           Crispin Rodwell/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Brian Lenihan, Ireland's finance minister, stands with his budget report at the Department of Finance in Dublin, Ireland, on Dec. 9, 2009. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Brian Lenihan, Ireland's finance minister, stands with his budget report at the Department of Finance in Dublin, Ireland, on Dec. 9, 2009. Photographer: Crispin Rodwell/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
