-- Bank of America Promotes Andrea Orcel as Lender Expands Emerging Markets
-- Ambereen Choudhury
-- 2010-04-26T14:26:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/bank-of-america-names-orcel-president-of-emerging-markets-excluding-asia.html

          
          
                  April 26 (Bloomberg) --Bank of America Corp., the biggest
U.S. lender, promoted Andrea Orcel to president of emerging
markets excluding Asia as the company seeks to capitalize on
customers gained through the Merrill Lynch & Co. takeover.  
 Jonathan Moulds continues as president of Europe and
Canada, according to a memo from Tom Montag, president of global
banking and markets, and Sallie Krawcheck, president of global
wealth and investment management. Orcel remains executive
chairman of global banking and markets for the Charlotte, North
Carolina-based company.  
 Bank of America is expanding investment banking and wealth
management outside the U.S. after acquiring Merrill Lynch in
January 2009. Merrill Lynch had three times as many corporate
relationships as Bank of America in Europe, the Middle East,
Africa and Asia, global corporate banking head Paul Donofrio
said in an interview last month.  
 “Andrea’s senior leadership, extensive global management
experience and client relationships will enable us to provide
additional focus in these very important market,” according to
the memo from Montag and Krawcheck.  
 The firm last week named former Nomura Holdings Inc.’s
banker Christian Meissner as head of investment banking for
Europe, the Middle East and Africa.  
 Expanded Duties  
 Orcel, 46, was among Merrill Lynch’s biggest dealmakers
when the firm was independent. He was given expanded
responsibilities early last year as Bank of America divided its
corporate and investment bank into Americas and international
units. He joined Merrill in 1992 and has worked on some of
Europe’s biggest bank mergers.  
 Orcel considered leaving Bank of America in early 2009
following the departures of more than three dozen senior Merrill
Lynch executives, according to people with direct knowledge of
his situation.  
 Moulds, 44, has worked for Bank of America since 1994.  
 “There are few people with Jonathan’s insight and
relationships who can provide the same level of strategic
guidance to our business,” according to the memo.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
David Mildenberg in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net 
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        