-- Bankers Said `Anything' to Get High Rating, S&P Ex-Analyst Says
-- Elliot Blair Smith
-- 2010-04-26T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/bankers-would-say-anything-for-raters-top-grades-ex-s-p-analyst-says.html

          
          
             Just past midnight on May 3, 2005,
Standard & Poor’s analyst Chui Ng e-mailed co-workers to broker
a solution to demands by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. bankers that
he said violated two or more of the ratings company’s internal
guidelines.  
 Goldman Sachs was adding $200 million in debt at the “last
minute” to a $1.5 billion bond pool called Adirondack Ltd., Ng
wrote. That meant the New York investment bank would originate
13 percent of the pool itself, two-and-a-half times the 5
percent limit set by S&P.  
 Goldman Sachs also balked at Ng’s request to pay in advance
for an insurance policy known as a credit default swap, which
was being used to create the additional debt obligation.  
 The e-mails from Ng, who negotiated a compromise on Goldman
Sachs’s requests, provide a rare window into the back-and-forth
between the bank and a rating company assessing the risks in a
financial product linked to subprime mortgages. The exchange was
among 581 pages of private communications released last week by
Senate investigators.  
 Ng, who no longer works in the rating business, said in a
telephone interview April 23 that while the Senate documents
contain an “incomplete record,” they show how banks pressured
credit raters to lower standards as they created collateralized
debt obligations, or CDOs, during the housing boom.  
 ‘Strong-Arm’  
 “The bankers would say anything to get what they needed
into their deals,” Ng, 47, said. “Goldman is very good at
looking at every deal; every CDO that’s ever been issued.” Ng
said the perception among professionals in the ratings business
was that the bank had a team that would look for
“inconsistencies across different deals and use that to strong-
arm Moody’s, Fitch and S&P to change their criteria.”  
 Asked about Ng’s comments, Goldman Sachs spokesman Michael
DuVally said in an e-mail, “Goldman Sachs and others relied
upon the rating agencies to supply independent analysis and
ratings.” He declined to elaborate. S&P spokesman Chris Atkins
declined to comment for this story.  
 Moody’s Corp., Fitch Inc., a unit of Paris-based Fimalac
S.A., and S&P, a unit of McGraw-Hill Cos., are the three largest
rating firms in global debt markets.  
 Senator Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat who is chairman of
the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, said at a
panel hearing April 23 that the raters compromised “their
analysis, their independence and their reputation for
reliability. And they did it for money.”  
 Abacus  
 The SEC sued Goldman Sachs on April 16, alleging it had
defrauded investors when selling debt tied to mortgages on
another deal known as Abacus 2007-AC1. The SEC alleges that
Goldman Sachs and executive director Fabrice Tourre failed to
inform investors that a hedge fund led by billionaire John
Paulson played a role in choosing Abacus securities that Paulson
was betting would fail.  
 Goldman Sachs denies wrongdoing. Paulson isn’t a defendant
in the lawsuit.  
 Goldman Sachs Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein, 55,
along with Tourre and five current and former employees are set
to appear before Levin’s panel Tuesday.  
 Ng rated several previous Abacus deals before resigning
from S&P in March 2006.  
 Two days after his first e-mail on Adirondack to fellow
members of an S&P criteria panel, Ng wrote that the firm’s
modeling now accommodated Goldman’s demands. In return, the bank
would put up more collateral, or find a replacement guarantor,
if its own credit rating were downgraded, he wrote.  
 Compromise Wins  
 Ng’s compromise carried by a 4-3 vote while provoking sharp
dissent, in part because the only one speaking up for the
proposal in the released e-mails was Ng himself, Senate
documents show.  
 “I would vote NO on this one,” wrote Lapo Guadagnuolo, a
senior director of S&P’s structured finance office in London.  
 Kenneth Cheng, then a director in S&P’s CDO group, wrote
that the compromise “opens up abuse of our criteria, devoiding
it of much meaning.”  
 Michael Drexler, an S&P analyst in New York, also objected.  
 “Ignoring for a moment my stupid (and arrogant!)
irritation that the correct side lost, in my mind this is a
great example of how the criteria process is NOT supposed to
work. Being outvoted is one thing (and a good thing, in my view)
but being out-voted by mystery voters with no ‘logic trail’ to
refer to is another. How can we possibly reconstruct the
argument of the winning side for our future deals if it does not
exist in writing for general reference?” Drexler wrote.  
 ‘Backroom Decision’  
 “This is exactly the kind of backroom decision-making that
leads to inconsistent criteria, confused analysts and pissed-off
clients,” he added.  
 Reached by telephone Friday, Drexler said, “That’s exactly
the kind of thing a young analyst shouldn’t put in writing.
Thank God I was right.”  
 Ng, in the interview, defended his work on the Adirondack
CDO, which S&P downgraded from AAA to AA in October 2008 and
further reduced to BB+, below investment grade, in June 2009. He
denied that he had led “mystery voters” to support the
compromise. He said that votes on criteria often were made
without identifying names to avoid pressuring ratings panelists.  
 “There were a lot of these one-off deals, different team
leaders, different managers,” Ng said. “If they got approved,
you can’t keep that a secret. After you issue it, bankers can
reverse engineer the deals and everybody would ask for it.”  
 Among the e-mails published by the Senate committee was one
from Moody’s CEO Raymond McDaniel, who ruminated about banker-
rater tension in a memorandum he sent to himself shortly before
midnight on Oct. 21, 2007.  
 “Analysts and MDs (managing directors) are continually
‘pitched’ by bankers, issuers, investors -- all with reasonable
arguments -- whose views can color credit judgment, sometimes
improving it, other times degrading it (we ‘drink the kool-
aid’),” McDaniel wrote, incorporating remarks that he’d heard
from some of his employees in recent weeks. “Coupled with
strong internal emphasis on market share & margin focus, this
does constitute a ‘risk’ to ratings quality.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Elliot Blair Smith in Washington at 
 esmith29@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Lloyd C. Blankfein, chairman and chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., chats with other attendees prior to a speech by U.S. President Barack Obama speech about financial reform at Cooper Union in New York, on April 22, 2010. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
