-- Bank of Montreal May Pursue More U.S. Lenders After Amcore Acquisition
-- Doug Alexander
-- 2010-04-26T20:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/bank-of-montreal-may-pursue-more-u-s-lenders-after-amcore-acquisition.html

          
          
             Bank of Montreal, which bought
assets of failed Illinois lender Amcore Bank, may pursue more
acquisitions to expand its U.S. business, TD Newcrest analyst
Jason Bilodeau said.  
 Bank of Montreal bought Rockford-based Amcore Bank from
U.S. regulators, adding 52 branches in Illinois and Wisconsin,
the Toronto-based lender said in a presentation on April 23.
Canada’s fourth-biggest bank adds about $2.5 billion in assets
and $2.1 billion in deposits in the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp.-assisted purchase for its Harris unit.  
 “We believe BMO (Harris) will likely pursue additional
deals in the U.S., with the potential for a large acquisition to
materially increase their relatively undersized U.S. retail
platform,” Bilodeau said today in a note.  
 Bank of Montreal Chief Executive Officer William Downe, 58,
has said he’s seeking to expand Chicago-based Harris by
increasing business lending and making “small and medium-
sized” takeovers if they make sense.  
 The bank expanded in the U.S. with its C$718 million ($718
million) takeover of Harris in 1984. The company has spent about
C$2.5 billion buying U.S. banks since then, including C$315
million two years ago for two Wisconsin lenders. Harris is the
third-biggest bank in Illinois by deposits.  
 The Amcore takeover boosts the 288-branch Harris network by
18 percent, with branches in Rockford and Madison, Wisconsin.
Bank of Montreal didn’t reveal the purchase price and said the
acquisition won’t have an impact on capital or earnings for the
Toronto-based company. Amcore was closed on April 23, and the
FDIC was appointed as receiver.  
 Share Losses  
 The FDIC and Bank of Montreal signed an agreement on $2
billion of Amcore’s loans in which FDIC covers 80 percent of any
losses and Harris takes 20 percent.  
 Toronto-Dominion Bank, Canada’s second-largest lender,
agreed on April 16 to buy three Florida-based financial
institutions, adding $3.1 billion in deposits and 69 branches in
an FDIC-assisted deal.  
 “It’s opportunistic for BMO, just like it was for TD,”
Barclays Capital analyst John Aiken said in an interview. “We
may be setting the stage for larger deals down the road.”  
 The takeovers by Bank of Montreal and Toronto-Dominion may
raise expectations of similar moves by Royal Bank of Canada,
which owns Raleigh, North Carolina-based RBC Bank, Bilodeau
said.  
 “The market could be looking for Royal to see if they will
pursue an FDIC-assisted deal,” Bilodeau said. “Management has
previously indicated acquisitions are being reviewed, but a deal
would unlikely take place until the bank improved their current
U.S. operations.”  
 Bank of Montreal rose 48 cents to C$65.41 at 4:16 p.m.
trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange, the highest since October
2007. The stock has risen 17 percent this year.  
 For Related News and Information:
Top Canadian Stories: TOPC <GO>
Stories on Canadian banks: TNI CANADA BNK <GO>
Bank of Montreal stories: BMO CN <Equity> CN BN <GO>
News on bank failures: NI BANKFAIL <GO>  
          
          


  


        