-- BofA Said to Consider Ex-MBNA Executive as Chairman
-- David Mildenberg
-- 2010-04-26T13:48:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/bank-of-america-is-said-to-consider-ex-mbna-executive-bramble-as-chairman.html

          
          
             Bank of America Corp. director
Frank Bramble, a Baltimore banker who was vice chairman at MBNA
Corp., is among candidates to become chairman of the largest
U.S. bank, according to people briefed on the matter.  
 Bramble, 61, may face competition for the post held by
Walter Massey, who is retiring after turning 72 earlier this
month, the people said. They declined to be named because the
board’s deliberations are confidential. Former DuPont Co.
Chairman Chad Holliday, who joined the bank’s board last year,
is a candidate along with Bramble, the Wall Street Journal
reported yesterday.  
 Bank of America’s board is likely to pick a chairman by
April 28 when the Charlotte, North Carolina-based company holds
its annual meeting. The bank split the chairman and chief
executive officer roles a year ago amid a firestorm of criticism
aimed at Kenneth D. Lewis, who held both jobs. His handling of
the Merrill Lynch & Co. takeover sparked a shareholder revolt
and a $150 million settlement with federal regulators.  
 “Frank has a marvelous ability to get along with others
and never lets his ego run ahead of the many around him who have
that problem,” Arnold Danielson, a Maryland banking consultant
who worked with Bramble, said in an e-mail. “He would be a good
choice.”  
 Bank of America spokesman Lawrence Di Rita declined to
discuss the board’s deliberations. Bramble couldn’t be reached
for comment.  
 Banking Background  
 Bramble is a former chief executive officer of MNC
Financial Inc., Maryland’s largest bank when it was acquired by
Bank of America predecessor NationsBank in 1992. In 1994, he
joined Allfirst Financial Inc. as president and CEO, then in
2002 joined MBNA, which Bank of America acquired in 2006 for
$35 billion. He was elected a director after the purchase.  
 Bank of America’s board elected Massey chairman last April
after shareholders voted to strip the title from Lewis, who
resigned at the end of last year. Lewis was among 11 directors
who have left the board since last year’s annual meeting. Brian
Moynihan, the new CEO, was added along with Holliday and five
others.  
 Bramble leads the board’s enterprise risk committee. He got
his first job at C&P Telephone Co. collecting money from pay
phones, the Baltimore Sun reported in a May 1, 2002 story. He
was chairman of Allfirst when the Baltimore-based bank uncovered
$691 million in bogus currency trades, contributing to a $36
million loss in 2002. He left in April 2002, a month after a
report criticized other officials at the bank for failing to
spot the currency trades. M&T Bancorp acquired Allfirst in 2003.  
 DuPont’s Boss  
 Holliday has been a director since September. He was
DuPont’s chairman from January 1999 to December 2009 and CEO
from January 1998 to December 2008. He’s on Bank of America’s
corporate governance and credit committees and serves as a
director at firms including Deere & Co., the maker of farm
machines based in Moline, Illinois.  
 His background at “a large, highly regulated,
multinational corporation and a founding member of the
International Business Council” was cited in the proxy as
“directly relevant to the oversight of a large global
organization like Bank of America.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        