-- Bank of Israel's Fischer Leaves Benchmark Lending Rate Unchanged at 1.5%
-- Alisa Odenheimer
-- 2010-04-26T16:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/bank-of-israel-s-fischer-leaves-benchmark-lending-rate-unchanged-at-1-5-.html

          
          
             The Bank of Israel held its
benchmark interest rate unchanged, after raising it a month ago
for the fourth time since August, on concern a strengthening
shekel may undermine exports and damp economic growth.  
 Governor Stanley Fischer left the rate at 1.5 percent, the
Jerusalem-based central bank said today. Seven of 15 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg had predicted the decision, while eight
expected a quarter-point increase.  
 “The Bank of Israel isn’t interested in opening up
interest rate gaps between the shekel and other currencies,
because it wants to continue to support the recovery in
Israel,” said Amir Kahanovich, an economist at Clal Finance
Investment Management Ltd. in Tel Aviv. “The Bank of Israel
understands that the Israeli economy is still exposed to global
instability.”  
 Fischer has been buying foreign currency since March 2008
and has more than doubled reserves in a bid to limit a rally in
the shekel to help exporters weather the global economic crisis.
The shekel has strengthened by 14 percent against the dollar in
the past year.  
 “While domestic growth is expected to be relatively high,
global growth is expected to be moderate and growth in Israel is
dependent on the world economy,” Yoav Soffer, a Bank of Israel
spokesman said by telephone. Exports account for almost 50
percent of Israel’s gross domestic product.  
 The shekel weakened to 3.7230 per dollar at 6:37 p.m. in
Tel Aviv, from 3.7168 just before the decision was announced.  
 Raising Rates  
 Fischer has raised the key rate by one percentage point,
starting in August, as the economy recovers from the impact of
the worst global recession since the Great Depression. Growth
accelerated to 4.8 percent in the fourth quarter, the fastest
pace in almost two years.  
 “The Bank of Israel is trying to raise rates slowly, to
wait for the other central banks in the world to begin raising
rates, because then the rate hikes in Israel won’t strengthen
the shekel by as much,” Kahanovich said.  
 The European Central Bank has kept its benchmark lending
rate at a record low of 1 percent since May. With the bank
forecasting that inflation will remain below the 2 percent
target through next year, interest rates may not rise before the
first quarter of 2011.  
 The First  
 U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke told Congress
on April 14 that borrowing costs are likely to stay low for an
“extended period” as the economy faces “significant
restraints,” including high unemployment.  
 Fischer was the first central bank governor to raise rates
in response to signs of a financial recovery and is still one of
only a handful of central bankers to increase borrowing costs.
Others include Australia, India and Norway.  
 “Interest rates of the central banks of the leading
advanced economies are very low and are expected to remain so
during the coming months,” the Bank of Israel said in an e-
mailed statement explaining its decision to keep the rate
unchanged.  
 Israel’s benchmark TA-25 stock index surged by more than 50
percent in the past 12 months, led by Delek Group Ltd., a
partner in a gas find at the Tamar field off Haifa’s coast last
year. The index has gained about 6 percent since the beginning
of the year.  
 The Bank of Israel last week raised its economic growth
forecast for this year to 3.7 percent from 3.5 percent. Exports
will rise about 9.2 percent, compared with an earlier forecast
of 8.6 percent, the bank said.  
 Inflation Dropped  
 The Bank of Israel is in the process of bringing the
benchmark interest rate back to a more “normal” level,
intended to lead inflation into the target range and maintain it
there, according to the minutes of its last rate-setting
meeting, released on April 12.  
 Inflation in March dropped to 3.2 percent, from 3.6 percent
the month before, while remaining above the government’s target
range of 1 percent to 3 percent for a fifth month.  
 Fischer was appointed for a second term as governor on
March 17. One of his tasks will be to implement a new law
governing the central bank that calls for the creation of a six-
member Monetary Policy Committee. Currently, Fischer has sole
responsibility for setting rates.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        