-- Lehman Director Ainslie Says He Doesn't Recall Barclays Profit Discussion
-- Don Jeffrey
-- 2010-04-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/barclays-trial-on-lehman-claim-of-11-billion-windfall-begins-in-new-york.html

          
          
             A Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
director said he didn’t remember any discussion that Barclays
Plc might profit from its purchase of Lehman’s brokerage after
the securities firm collapsed in 2008.  
 Michael Ainslie, the former chairman of Sotheby’s and a
Lehman director since 1996, was the first witness in a trial
that began yesterday over whether Barclays should pay as much as
$11 billion to Lehman for the “windfall” the bank received
when it bought the brokerage.  
 The fight in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan before
Judge James Peck pits the U.K.’s second-biggest bank, which more
than doubled its profit last year, against Lehman, which wants
money to pay off creditors and brokerage customers. Lehman said
Barclays failed to tell the court how much money it made on the
deal, which was sealed in the wake of Lehman’s bankruptcy, the
biggest in U.S. history.  
 Ainslie said in response to questions from Barclays lawyer
David Boies of New York-based Boies Schiller & Flexner LLP, that
he didn’t recall “any discussion of the possibility” that
Barclays might profit from the deal. Boies was trying to show
that Lehman’s advisers didn’t fully inform the bank’s directors
about the deal as it was altered, nor did they ask questions
about it.  
 Ainslie said he voted for the brokerage sale to Barclays
because it was the alternative to liquidation. Lehman lawyer
Robert Gaffey has said he can show that key individuals were
kept in the dark about the profitability of the Barclays deal.  
 Barclays Lawyer  
 After potential buyers for the whole of Lehman lost
interest -- including Barclays -- the U.S. Federal Reserve and
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission told Lehman’s board
on Sept. 14, 2008, that its best course would be to file for
bankruptcy, Ainslie said. Ainslie said the regulators referred
the board to advice they had given Lehman’s then-chief executive
Richard Fuld to file for bankruptcy. Barclays became a bidder
for just the brokerage after the filing.  
 Boies showed a slide of a draft of the minutes of a Lehman
board meeting in September 2008 just after the filing, saying
that liabilities Barclays was assuming were more than $5 billion
less than the assets it was taking on.  
 Ainslie, who was a member of the Lehman board’s audit
committee, said he only recalled statements saying the assets
and liabilities would be roughly equal.  
 “It is inconsistent with what I recall we were told at the
meeting,” he said. Questioned by Boies, he said he didn’t know
if people Barclays was employing from Lehman were considered an
asset or a liability.  
 Mismatch  
 Several drafts of minutes for the meeting included the same
language showing a mismatch in assets and liabilities in
Barclays’s favor, according to Boies’s slides shown in court.  
 Similar information about the purchase was sent to Lehman’s
lawyers at Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP, Boies said.  
 Barclays, which reported a $4 billion gain on the brokerage
that year, has said Lehman’s advisers knew it would make a
profit.  
 “The standard rap is that bankruptcy courts favor the
debtors,” said Lynn LoPucki, a law professor at the University
of California, Los Angeles. “The court’s going to hear Barclays
out, but it won’t be with an entirely open mind.”  
 Peck is presiding over three lawsuits against Barclays,
including one by the Lehman brokerage’s trustee, James Giddens,
and one by creditors.  
 Barclays began the hearing by seeking documents from its
adversaries the bank claims it needs to assess their
understanding of the brokerage sale. Peck delayed making a
ruling on the request.  
 McDade  
 Gaffey has said he will show later in the trial that
Barclays got a “secret discount” from Lehman executives who
took lucrative jobs at the British bank. His second witness was
former Lehman President Herbert “Bart” McDade, a key figure in
negotiating the Barclays deal and now a managing member of the
investment management firm, River Birch Capital LLC.  
 “There weren’t negotiations to agree to a haircut,” or
discount, McDade told Gaffey in court yesterday. “There were
negotiations to try to find a price at which to transact.”  
 While the Barclays deal was conceived as a “wash,” with
neither much gain nor loss for the British bank, Barclays
“expressed a need for more assets” to cushion it in the
falling markets of September 2008, McDade said.  
 Most Unusual  
 “It was the most unusual week in my 25-year experience, so
clearly the valuations had to reflect that,” he said.  
 However, Barclays’ $4 billion reported gain on the deal was
never contemplated when the purchase was being negotiated,
McDade said.  
 Queried by Gaffey, he said he was familiar with an e-mail
written by a Lehman representative in September 2008 saying
Barclays “won’t blow this deal by being piggish.”  
 Brokerage trustee Giddens has said Barclays took Lehman
assets he needs to pay customers.  
 William Maguire, a lawyer for Giddens at Hughes Hubbard &
Reed LLP, asked McDade if he knew that certain assets wanted by
Barclays were held in accounts “for the exclusive benefit of
customers of the brokerage.” McDade said he did.  
 Lehman never consented to any of these assets going to
Barclays as part of the deal, he said.  
 Opening Arguments  
 Opening arguments in the bankruptcy court trial were made
April 9, after Peck rejected Barclays’s request to dismiss the
case. The bank had argued in court papers that it wasn’t lawful
to reopen the sale contract.  
 “I don’t think this can be decided just on the basis of
the papers,” Peck said at the time.  
 Before it failed, New York-based Lehman used accounting
methods that concealed billions of dollars of risks, according
to a report by bankruptcy examiner Anton Valukas.  
 The brokerage was sold soon after Lehman declared
bankruptcy on Sept. 15, 2008, amid concern the unit faced
liquidation and the global banking system was on the verge of
collapse. Peck said when he approved the Barclays deal that it
would help stabilize financial markets.  
 Barclays was the sole bidder for Lehman’s brokerage, giving
72,000 customers access to $40 billion in assets frozen in the
bankruptcy, the bank has said.  
 Grab for Billions  
 Lehman, its creditors and the trustee sued Barclays last
November as the markets rebounded, saying the bank made too much
money on the purchase. Giddens wants $6.7 billion back. Barclays
says it is still owed $3 billion, which Giddens is withholding.  
 Lehman, once the fourth-largest investment bank, has
accused Barclays of a “grab for billions in additional
assets.”  
 Barclays paid $1.54 billion for the brokerage and real
estate, also taking on financial assets and liabilities as part
of the purchase.  
 While the judge was told Barclays wouldn’t make much money
buying the brokerage, Lehman executives seeking jobs at Barclays
gave the bank a “secret” $5 billion discount on a portfolio of
securities it acquired, Lehman has said.  
 Additionally, Barclays made another $6 billion of
“undisclosed” profit when it wrote up the value of the
brokerage, skimped on severance and contract payments it had
promised to make, and took more financial assets belonging to
Lehman, according to Robert Gaffey, a lawyer for Lehman. Gaffey,
of the New York office of Jones Day, displayed a chart in court
on April 9 showing the alleged windfall.  
 Speaking Role  
 “Barclays sat silent in court while Lehman’s attorneys
described the deal to the court as a wash,” he told Peck.  
 Barclays said it never would have agreed to a deal that
didn’t have a cushion against the falling markets of 2008.  
 “This was a bet-your-company transaction for Barclays,”
Boies said at the April 9 hearing. “Now, after the fact, when
the credit markets have recovered, you hear allegations that
Barclays was being piggish. I think the record shows that the
investment was welcomed at the time.”  
 Peck contradicted Boies when the lawyer said it was up to
Lehman’s advisers to inform the judge of the “windfall” in
2008 because Barclays had no “speaking role” at the sale
hearing.  
 “I was here and you weren’t,” Peck said. “Barclays had
very much of a speaking role.”  
 Barclays infused $45 billion into the floundering firm and
took securities valued by Lehman at $49.7 billion, according to
Barclays’s account of the deal. Some of the promised assets were
never delivered, it has said.  
 The cases are In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
08-13555, and James W. Giddens v. Barclays Capital Inc.,
09-01732, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net  and;
Don Jeffrey in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York at
   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        