-- Belgium Heads for Elections After Government Collapses on District Dispute
-- John Martens
-- 2010-04-26T17:40:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/belgium-heads-for-elections-after-government-collapses-on-district-dispute.html

          
          
             Belgium’s King Albert II accepted
the resignation of Prime Minister Yves Leterme’s government,
setting the stage for elections that risk being unconstitutional
without a solution for a disputed voting district.  
 The monarch accepted Leterme’s resignation today after
Finance Minister Didier Reynders, tapped by the king to break
the deadlock, failed to persuade party leaders to return to
negotiations over the Flemish demand to redraw the district’s
boundaries. Leterme, 49, was given the task of wrapping up the
government’s “current affairs,” according to a statement from
the royal palace.  
 Belgium has gone through four governments -- two headed by
Leterme -- since elections in 2007 produced a political
stalemate that led some to question whether the linguistically
divided country would stay in one piece. Belgium takes over the
European Union’s six-month presidency on July 1, putting
pressure on the political establishment to come up with a
functioning government by then.  
 Leterme’s resignation offer on April 22 prompted investors
to sell Belgian bonds, pushing the 10-year yield spread over
comparable German debt up by 8 basis points to 53.5 basis points
at 7 p.m. in Brussels. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 French- and Dutch-speaking politicians under the leadership
of Leterme failed to agree on splitting the Brussels-Halle-
Vilvoorde voting district, which encompasses both the bilingual
capital and 35 surrounding Flemish municipalities.  
 Two Separate Regions  
 The district has been an anomaly since the country switched
to provincial voting because it stretches over two separate
regions and isn’t aligned to the provincial borders like all
other voting districts. A 2003 ruling by Belgium’s
Constitutional Court gave political leaders until June 24, 2007,
to address this situation.  
 The second-term government of former prime minister Guy
Verhofstadt had to bring forward the 2007 elections by two weeks
after a failed attempt to split the disputed voting district.
The impasse has prompted Flemish parties to use their
parliamentary majority in a bid to obtain the split, a move that
so far has been blocked by French-speaking parties invoking
conflicts of interest.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        