-- Berkshire-Backed Exemption Cut From Financial Bill
-- Andrew Frye
-- 2010-04-26T16:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/berkshire-backed-derivatives-exemption-said-to-be-struck-from-senate-plan.html

          
          
             Democratic Senators crafting
legislation on derivatives have struck an exemption that was
sought by Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., according to
a congressional aide briefed on the negotiations.  
 Berkshire had asked that previously written contracts be
exempted from new rules on collateral, said the Democratic aide,
who asked not to be identified because the talks are private.  
 Buffett uses derivatives to speculate on equity markets and
the credit quality of U.S. companies. Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire’s contracts give Buffett cash up front to invest and,
in many cases, years before any payouts must be made. The U.S.
reform proposal would establish collateral requirements for
derivatives dealers. Berkshire asked Senators including Ben
Nelson, Democrat of Nebraska, to grandfather existing contracts.  
 “Berkshire Hathaway brought the issue to Senator Nelson
and a number of others,” said Jake Thompson a spokesman for the
Nebraska Democrat. “Senator Nelson agreed that the bill should
not be so far-reaching it negatively impacts existing good faith
contracts.”  
 Nelson’s support isn’t contingent on the provision
requested by Berkshire being included, Thompson said. Berkshire
owns derivatives tied to about $63 billion in assets.  
 Buffett, Berkshire’s 79-year-old chief executive officer,
has long warned about the dangers of an unregulated derivatives
market. In 2003, he called the contracts “financial weapons of
mass destruction,” a phrase that President Barack Obama quoted
in a New York speech last week.  
 ‘No Effective Way to Control’  
 “Central banks and governments have so far found no
effective way to control, or even monitor, the risks posed by
these contracts,” Buffett said in his 2002 letter to Berkshire
shareholders.  
 Lawmakers are weighing new rules for financial markets
after collateral calls on derivatives bets by American
International Group Inc. forced the New York-based insurer to
the brink of failure in 2008. Derivatives, which allow farmers
to hedge against declines in the price of wheat and airlines to
protect themselves from rising fuel costs, are used by investors
to make bets on stock and bonds without buying the securities.  
 Buffett has said that Berkshire doesn’t face the same risks
as AIG because his contracts were negotiated to minimize or
avoid the posting of collateral if long-term bets turn against
Berkshire before the derivatives expire. Buffett didn’t return a
message for comment left with an assistant today. The Wall
Street Journal previously reported on attempts by Berkshire to
influence the legislation.  
 Agriculture Committee  
 Agriculture committee Chairman Blanche Lincoln, Democrat of
Arkansas, has introduced a provision that would force lenders to
wall off their swaps trading desks from their commercial banks,
according to a Democratic Senate aide briefed on the talks.  
 Buffett, who advised Obama during his election campaign,
praised Nelson in January for voting for health-care reform even
though a majority of his constituents may have been opposed,
according to a Lincoln Journal Star interview with the
billionaire.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Warren Buffett, CEO of Berkshire Hathaway  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Acker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Warren Buffett, chief executive officer of Berkshire Hathaway, pauses during a television interview in New York, on Feb. 22, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Warren Buffett, chief executive officer of Berkshire Hathaway, pauses during a television interview in New York, on Feb. 22, 2010. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Warren Buffett, chief executive officer of Berkshire Hathaway, speaks during a television interview in New York, earlier this year. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
