-- Billionaire Perelman Joins Toll in Fight to Buy Philadelphia Papers Owner
-- Michael Bathon
-- 2010-04-26T23:36:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/billionaire-perelman-joins-toll-in-fight-to-buy-philadelphia-papers-owner.html

          
          
             Billionaire financier Ronald
Perelman has teamed with homebuilder Bruce Toll in an attempt to
buy Philadelphia Newspapers LLC, the owner of the Philadelphia
Inquirer and the Daily News, at a bankruptcy auction scheduled
to start tomorrow.  
 Perelman’s MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings Inc. will be
bidding with a group of investors led by Toll, the vice chairman
of homebuilder Toll Brothers Inc., to buy the bankrupt newspaper
publisher, Marshall Sonenshine, the Philadelphia Newspapers’
financial adviser, said today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Philadelphia.  
 Perelman and his father Raymond replace billionaire Ron
Burkle and his Yucaipa Cos., who signed up as one of the Toll
group’s investors April 23, Philadelphia Newspapers’ Chief
Executive Officer Brian Tierney told reporters during a break in
today’s hearing.  
 Last week, the investor group withdrew its stalking-horse,
or lead bid, which proposed paying secured lenders about $60
million in cash and property, to satisfy more than $300 million
in claims. The group resubmitted a modified bid with the new
investors.  
 Philadelphia Newspapers filed for bankruptcy on Feb. 22,
2009, more than two years after Tierney led a buyout for the
publisher. The company listed assets and debts of as much as
$500 million each.  
 Secured Lenders to Bid  
 Secured lenders, who lost the right to bid the debt owed
them at the auction, also will make a cash bid tomorrow,
according to company spokesman Jay Devine. The details of the
offer from Alden Global Capital, a New-York based hedge fund
affiliated with R.D. Smith & Co., are unknown. Lenders argue
none of the offers should be disclosed because they are
confidential.  
 A March 22 ruling by a federal appeals court in
Philadelphia upheld a November decision by a judge that
bankruptcy law doesn’t entitle secured creditors to bid what
they are owed at an auction.  
 There is a third offer from Stern Partners Inc., according
to Philadelphia Newspapers’ attorney, Lawrence McMichael. Stern
Partners, a Canadian private-equity firm, with investments
including Canstar Publications Limited and FP Newspapers Income
Fund, according to its Web site, was deemed a qualified bidder
at today’s impromptu hearing.  
 Under questioning by McMichael, Sonenshine said all the
bids raise questions. The financial adviser added that the Toll
group and Stern Partners offers contain conditions about union
contracts. Both proposals ask for the return of the cash
deposits if those conditions aren’t met, he added.  
 The lenders’ proposal says it would “separate or sever”
all employees, then hire back at least 51 percent of them,
Sonenshine said in response to a question. The issues won’t
delay the auction.  
 The case is In re Philadelphia Newspapers LLC, 09-11204,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania
(Philadelphia).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        