-- Black's Apollo Dominates Junk Bond Sales in Record Rally: Credit Markets
-- Pierre Paulden
-- 2010-04-27T16:21:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/black-s-apollo-dominates-junk-bond-sales-in-record-rally-credit-markets.html

          
          
             Leon Black’s Apollo Global
Management LLC is dominating the junk bond market this month
with more than $4 billion of sales, taking advantage of a record
rally to refinance maturing debt and pay for new takeovers.  
 Four companies backed by Apollo accounted for more than 16
percent of the $24 billion raised, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Harrah’s Entertainment Inc. issued $750 million of
12.75 percent, eight-year bonds. An Apollo affiliate is using
$700 million of financing to buy CKE Restaurants Inc., the owner
of the Hardee’s fast-food chain said in a statement.  
 “They realize the market is hot and there’s a lot of cash
out there,” said Sabur Moini, a money manager who helps oversee
$50 billion at Payden & Rygel in Los Angeles. “These guys are
being opportunistic.”  
 Black, the former head of mergers and acquisitions at
Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., is selling after a record 96
percent rally in the past year for bonds with ratings below
investment grade cut yields to the lowest since July 2007,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. The gap
between the cost of protecting U.S. high-yield debt and
investment-grade bonds from losses yesterday fell to the
narrowest in 17 months.  
 Greece had its credit rating cut below investment grade by
Standard and Poor’s, sending the cost of protecting its debt
from default to a record. Credit-default swaps on Greek
government debt rose 104 basis points to a record 814, according
to CMA DataVision prices.  
 “Medium-term financing risks related to the government’s
high debt burden are growing, despite the government’s already
sizable fiscal consolidation plans,” S&P said today in an e-
mailed statement. “Our updated assumptions about Greece’s
economic and fiscal prospects lead us to conclude that the
sovereign’s creditworthiness is no longer compatible with an
investment-grade rating.”  
 Credit Seizure  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company debt instead of Treasuries rose 1 basis
point to 144 basis points, or 1.44 percentage points, down from
176 at the end of 2009, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global
Broad Market Corporate Index shows. Yields were little changed
at 3.949 percent.  
 A benchmark indicator of U.S. corporate credit risk rose to
a more than nine-week high and credit protection on Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. climbed for a fifth day as a U.S. Senate panel
questioned bank executives and employees about Goldman’s role in
the financial crisis.  
 Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index Series 14, which investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, rose 4.4 basis points to a mid-price of 95.3
basis points as of 12:16 p.m. in New York, according to Markit
Group Ltd. The index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves.  
 Goldman Sachs  
 Swaps on New York-based Goldman Sachs climbed 10.5 basis
points to 177.5 basis points, CMA prices show.  
 Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  
 Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou was last week forced
to activate a 45 billion-euro ($60 billion) package of emergency
loans from the euro region and the International Monetary Fund,
after the country’s soaring borrowing costs made it difficult to
finance its debt in the markets. Concern about Papandreou’s
ability to trim the euro region’s biggest deficit has fueled
concern of a possible default.  
 Apollo Fund Purchases  
 Apollo’s sales this month contrast with its funds’
purchases of $33.5 billion of debt at a discount to face value
as the seizure in credit markets spread from 2007 to 2009 and
prices tumbled to record lows, according to a regulatory filing.  
 “We acted aggressively and decisively when other market
participants were not as active to capitalize on what we
believed to be unprecedented opportunities in the credit
markets,” Apollo said in a letter to investors last month.
Black, 58, formed the firm in 1990 to buy companies and invest
in distressed debt.  
 High-yield bonds, rated Ba1 and lower by Moody’s Investors
Service or BB+ and below by S&P, returned 7.1 percent this year
through April 26, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data. The lowest-ranked debt in the CCC tier and below on
S&P’s scale gained 10.6 percent.  
 Yields have tightened 1.61 percentage points relative to
government debt from this year’s peak on Feb. 12 to 5.42
percentage points, the lowest since Nov. 16, 2007, the data
show.  
 Leveraged Loans  
 Apollo’s funds purchased $25 billion of leveraged loans and
$8.5 billion of distressed debt from the third quarter of 2007
through Dec. 31, 2009, according to a regulatory filing. The
firm, which had $53.6 billion of assets as of Dec. 31, plans to
sell shares on the New York Stock Exchange. Charles Zehren, a
spokesman for New York-based Apollo, declined to comment.  
 Six firms in which Apollo has stakes sold high-yield bonds
this year as the economy recovered. The U.S. may have expanded
at an annualized 3 percent pace in the first quarter, according
to a Bloomberg survey of 66 economists. Gross domestic product
rose at an annualized 5.6 percent in the final three months of
2009, the most in six years, according to the U.S. Commerce
Department.  
 The 12-month global default rate for high-yield, high-risk
debt fell to 9.9 percent in the first quarter from 13 percent at
the end of 2009, according to Moody’s. The rate will drop to 2.8
percent by year-end, the New York-based ratings company said in
a report this month.  
 Hexion, Ceva  
 In January, Columbus, Ohio-based Hexion Specialty Chemicals
Inc. sold $1 billion of notes in its first issue since April
2007. Last month, Ceva Group Plc, based in Hoofddorp,
Netherlands, sold $625 million of bonds due in 2014.  
 Charter Communications Inc. the St. Louis-based cable
operator that Apollo bought into last year, issued $1.6 billion
of senior notes on April 14. That week, Harrah’s sold notes at a
yield of 13 percent that were graded Ca by Moody’s, the second-
lowest junk rating.  
 All six companies said they would use proceeds from the
offerings to repay debt, according to company statements and
people familiar with the offerings, who weren’t authorized to
discuss the transactions publicly.  
 An Apollo affiliate is also obtaining financing for fresh
buyouts. The firm beat Thomas H. Lee Partners LP to acquire CKE
for $1 billion including debt. Morgan Stanley, Citigroup Inc.
and RBC Capital Markets affiliates are providing $700 million of
financing, the Carpinteria, California-based firm said
yesterday.  
 “To the extent these companies can refinance, they’d be
stupid not to,” said Kingman Penniman, president of KDP
Investment Advisors, a high-yield research firm in Montpelier,
Vermont. “All of the private equity sponsors, because their
companies have issued the most debt in the first place, have
this great wall of refinancing to address.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
Pierre Paulden in New York at 
 ppaulden@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Leon Black, chairman and senior founding partner of Apollo Management, reacts during a lunch meeting on day three of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Jan. 30, 2009.  Photographer: Adam Berry/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
