-- Boeing Rally Defies Long-Delayed Payoff for Dreamliner
-- Susanna Ray
-- 2010-04-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/boeing-rally-raising-doubts-dreamliner-takeoff-justifies-earnings-estimate.html

          
          
             As Boeing Co. Chief Executive
Officer Jim McNerney held court in Airbus SAS’s backyard at the
Paris Air Show last June, he made a promise: He told Wall Street
analysts he’d be throwing a party in two weeks -- after the 787
Dreamliner’s first test flight.  
 The plane, which is so radical that its fuselage is formed
by wrapping composite-plastic tape around a mold and then baking
it, was already two years late for its trial. The delays had
crushed Boeing’s credibility and helped drive shares down to
$51.44 as the show opened from a record $107.83 in 2007.  
 The celebration wasn’t to be, Bloomberg Markets magazine
reports in its June issue. Back in the U.S., as McNerney was
driving home from Waukegan Regional Airport in Illinois, he got
a call from Scott Carson, who was then president of Boeing’s
commercial aircraft division. Engineers had found separations in
layers of plastic where the 787 fuselage meets the wing.  
 The only option was another delay. News of the postponed
flight sent shares tumbling a further 6.5 percent on June 23.  
 Boeing reinforced the wing joint with titanium, and the
Dreamliner flew its much-anticipated three-hour test over
Washington state on Dec. 15, almost six months later.  
 ‘Tough Day’  
 Seated in a Boeing conference room 36 floors above the
Chicago River on a blustery March afternoon, McNerney, 60,
recalls the June delay.  
 “It was a tough day, but you’ve got to be levelheaded
around here,” he says. “If I get as excited as I want to be
about all the cool stuff that happens and as disappointed as I
want to feel when stuff doesn’t go well, I’d be a Raggedy Ann
doll,” he says.  
 Shareholders, who are gathering in Chicago for the
company’s annual meeting today, can relate to that. After
watching Boeing stock hit so many peaks and valleys in two
decades that its price graph resembles a mountain range,
investors are betting the Dreamliner will put Boeing back on the
upswing.  
 “Once Boeing starts delivering the 787, the earnings power
will double and the stock will double,” predicts David Pearl,
co-chief investment officer at New York-based Epoch Investment
Partners Inc., which owned 2 million shares of the Chicago-based
company as of Dec. 31.  
 Boeing shares jumped 51 percent to $75.13 in the six months
ended on April 23. The rise, almost four times that of the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, lifted the company’s price-earnings
ratio to 39.7, greater than 88 percent of the index’s members.  
 High Flier  
 From July 2005 -- when McNerney took the reins as chairman
and CEO after two ethics scandals had rocked the world’s biggest
aerospace and defense company -- to April 23, the shares
returned 26 percent, double the 13 percent gain for the S&P 500.  
 Boeing is the only stock with enough liquidity for large-
cap portfolio managers looking for aerospace growth, says David
Rowlett, a Baltimore-based analyst at T. Rowe Price Group Inc.  
 “They can generate a lot of cash if they get the 787
right,” says Rowlett, whose firm owned 7.9 million shares in
December.  
 Getting it right hasn’t been Boeing’s forte. The
Dreamliner, a two-engine jet that will travel 8,500 nautical
miles (15,742 kilometers) while burning 20 percent less fuel
than competitors, won’t earn back Boeing’s original investment
of about $15 billion until 2018 or later, predicts Heidi Wood,
an analyst at Morgan Stanley in New York.  
 Falling Orders  
 Last year, Boeing’s aircraft orders tumbled 79 percent to
142 amid the worst travel slump since World War II. Profit
plummeted 51 percent to $1.3 billion. The company swallowed $1.8
billion in reduced income because of an International
Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers strike in 2008.
And it lost its lead contractor role when the Pentagon canceled
the $159 billion Future Combat Systems program, hurting the
defense business that delivered 49.1 percent of Boeing’s $68.3
billion in 2009 revenue.  
 On April 21, Boeing said first-quarter net income fell 15
percent to $519 million and revenue dropped 7.8 percent to $15.2
billion.  
 The 787 has added to the misery. Not only was the
Dreamliner the first airliner designed largely with composite
materials instead of metals; Boeing also farmed out entire
pieces for suppliers to design and build. The company planned to
assemble the plane in three days at its Everett, Washington,
campus, joining the nose, wings and fuselage into a wide-body
jet that could seat up to 290 people.  
 Losing Focus  
 McNerney was late to recognize the Dreamliner was drifting
off course, says Joseph Campbell, a Barclays Capital analyst in
New York.  
 “McNerney initially made the mistake of not personally
being on top of the details of the 787,” Campbell says. “Once
he realized that he needed to be personally focused on the 787
details, he did much better.”  
 The rocky start cost Boeing the chance to exploit Airbus’s
fumbles with its A350 wide-body plane, A380 superjumbo jet and
A400M military transport, Chief Financial Officer James Bell
says.  
 The A380, the largest-ever commercial aircraft with 525
seats, contributed to parent European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co.’s 763 million euro ($1.03 billion) loss in 2009. In
one recent delay, Korean Air Lines Co. said in April it will
take delivery of its first A380 in the second quarter of 2011
instead of in December 2010.  
 ‘Destroyed the Competition’  
 “We stumbled when we could have just destroyed the
competition,” Bell says.  
 The transatlantic rivals have been dueling for a quarter
century. Toulouse, France-based Airbus, formed by combining
European aerospace companies, started winning sales from
Boeing’s mainstay 737 with its 150-seat A320 in 1988.  
 In the 1990s, Boeing tried to boost productivity by
studying Toyota Motor Corp.’s lean-style manufacturing. After
expanding in defense, Boeing moved its headquarters to Chicago
in 2001, inflaming unions that represent 48,000 machinists and
engineers at its commercial manufacturing hub around Seattle.  
 Now, both Boeing and Airbus are wrestling with composites,
the biggest plane-making leap since the switch to metal from
wood in the 1930s. In 2006, Airbus fired executives and delayed
the A350, its 787 competitor whose fuselage and wings are made
of carbon fiber-reinforced plastic.  
 Both have asked lawmakers to fight what they consider
unfair subsidies by governments overseas. And both are feeling
heat from customers to create jobs worldwide -- often with
catastrophic results. Airbus says it spent two years and 6
billion euros fixing glitches such as mismatched wiring after
French and German planners used different computer-design tools
for the A380.  
 ‘Extraordinarily Difficult’  
 Because they’re the only makers of large commercial
jetliners, Boeing and Airbus constantly jockey for orders from
the world’s 100 major global airlines, New York-based aerospace
consultant Wolfgang Demisch says. Winning can come down to
price, shrinking pretax profit margins below 10 percent and
forcing endless restructurings.  
 “Moving the technology forward while ruthlessly cutting
costs has been extraordinarily difficult,” Demisch says.  
 Investors must wait a decade to see whether the moves
worked, because that’s how long creating an airliner takes.  
 ‘Behind Eight Ball’  
 “McNerney is trying to do something that’s really hard to
do,” says Charles Smith, chief investment officer at
Pittsburgh-based Fort Pitt Capital Group Inc., which owned
236,000 shares in March. “Boeing got caught up in the idea they
could produce a new generation of aircraft on time and on
budget. Their chief competitor is just as far behind the eight
ball.”  
 Boeing has been experimenting with composites to trim cost
and weight since the 1970s. It began using lightweight materials
for the tail of its 777 jetliner in 1995 and for the “flying
wing” that’s the primary structure of the B-2 bomber in 1997.  
 Today, Spirit AeroSystems Holdings Inc. in Wichita, Kansas,
is one of four companies building composite pieces for the
Dreamliner fuselage. Spirit was part of Boeing until Boeing sold
its Wichita commercial operations in 2005.  
 Boeing is also bringing some composite work in-house,
perhaps including wings on future aircraft. In July 2009, it
paid $1 billion for a North Charleston, South Carolina, factory
owned by Vought Aircraft Industries Inc. that builds a third of
the 787 fuselage.  
 On this sunny March morning in Wichita, several dozen
Spirit workers are fashioning the Dreamliner’s front nose
section. They wear blue lab coats to stay lint-free. Unlike in
most aircraft factories, there’s no industrial noise in the
football stadium-sized room.  
 Baking a Plane  
 Instead, workers check computers as a dispenser spools out
epoxy-soaked carbon-fiber tape a few inches wide. As the tape
wraps around a rotating, railroad car-sized cylindrical mold,
the black shape of an airplane becomes recognizable like a
butterfly emerging from a cocoon. Workers stroke the newly
formed fuselage with white gloves to spot defects and then
manipulate a giant forklift to place it in a pressurized oven,
where heat hardens the body. A laser cuts out the windows.  
 Factory director Terry George helped write patents
protecting construction of one-piece fuselages. Composites are
revolutionary, he says.  
 “Suddenly, you’re talking about reductions of 10, 20, 30
percent in cost and weight,” he says.  
 Spirit ships each fuselage to Everett, about 30 miles (48
kilometers) north of Seattle, in a converted 747 freighter.
About 20 percent of Boeing’s 157,000 employees work at the
campus, with snow-covered Mt. Baker as a backdrop.  
 Factory Ballet  
 Inside, the 787 team choreographs a ballet of composite
parts. Workers direct machines to roll the wings -- which have
arrived from Japan -- plus pieces of the fuselage and tail
toward one another. A blue-and-yellow metal cage steadies the
chunks as robots install fasteners for holding the parts
together.  
 Boeing still uses production methods rooted in the 1970s
for other jetliners. In the same building, a worker in a black
baseball cap crawls on the wing of a 747 with a hand-held drill
to assemble a flap. Boeing’s largest plane, with up to 467
seats, is made largely of metal. Other workers manipulate cranes
to lift green pieces of the jet, with its distinctive hump, like
a jigsaw puzzle. The bam-bam of rivet guns echoes off the wall.  
 Customers are eager for the 787. It will fly 37 percent
farther than the 30-year-old, 218-seat 767 it replaces, making
nonstop routes such as Chicago to Beijing routine.  
 ‘Cleaning It Up’  
 In April, Boeing had 866 orders worth $150 billion at list
prices. It plans to deliver the first 787 to All Nippon Airways
Co. in the fourth quarter.  
 Airbus is further behind. Its A350 is due in mid-2013;
airlines have ordered 530.  
 “They’ve got to get the aircraft in service,” Virgin
Atlantic Airways Ltd. CEO Steve Ridgway says, referring to the
787. Virgin ordered 15 of them in 2007. It hasn’t ordered any
A350s.  
 McNerney’s scandal-free half decade has further restored
Boeing’s shine. CEO Phil Condit left in 2003, ending his six-
year tenure, after Boeing hired an Air Force official who had
negotiated a contract with the company while in the military.
Harry Stonecipher resigned in 2005 following an affair with a
subordinate.  
 “He’s cleaning it up,” says Jack Welch, retired chief of
General Electric Co. McNerney has authenticity, an essential
leadership quality, says Welch, 74, who considered McNerney as
his own successor before choosing Jeffrey Immelt in 2000.
McNerney, a Harvard University MBA who competes with boyhood
friends in the U.S. Pond Hockey Championships in Minneapolis
each January, spent 19 years at GE. He led 3M Co. for 4 1/2
years before joining Boeing in July 2005.  
 ‘Strong Leader’  
 “He’s a very thoughtful, careful but strong, leader,”
Welch says.  
 McNerney is making headway in Washington after the 2003
scandal. Boeing is in the running for a $35 billion Pentagon
contract for refueling tankers. Northrop Grumman Corp. pulled
out in March, saying the guidelines favored Boeing.  
 French President Nicolas Sarkozy protested to U.S.
President Barack Obama on behalf of Northrop’s partner, Airbus
parent EADS.  
 “We have always opposed protectionism,” Sarkozy told
reporters on March 12. EADS said in April it plans to submit a
new bid on July 9.  
 Pick Up Pace  
 Even though the 787 appears to be on track, McNerney
worries he waited too long to replace Carson -- the executive
who delivered news of the wing-joint problem -- and put Jim
Albaugh in charge. Albaugh, 59, had been running Boeing’s
defense business and McNerney liked his ability to multitask as
he developed dozens of military aircraft simultaneously.  
 “Could we have moved months earlier? Probably,” McNerney
says.  
 McNerney says Boeing has to pick up the pace because rivals
are muscling in on its duopoly with Airbus. He’s bringing the
company together under what he calls “one Boeing.” The company
can save $2 billion to $3 billion a year by using one purchasing
system, sharing research and enlisting pilots from the defense
division to test commercial planes, McNerney says.  
 “I’m focusing our company on delivering on its promises,
having the low cost and being the most innovative,” he says.
“The price will be bigger in the future if we don’t do those
things.”  
 ‘Pay the Price’  
 Bombardier Inc., a Montreal-based maker of business and
regional jets, will challenge Boeing’s 737 and Airbus’s A319
with the 130-seat CSeries in 2013. China Development Bank Corp.
is providing $3.85 billion in financing to help sell the planes.
Shenyang Aircraft Corp., a unit of Aviation Industry Corp. of
China, builds the fuselage, giving China experience in
composites. Commercial Aircraft Corp. of China’s 168-seat C919
is due in 2016.  
 “By the end of the decade, Boeing and Airbus will pay the
price,” consultant Demisch says, referring to China’s
expertise.  
 Boeing, which started building seaplanes in 1916, was so
dominant for most of the 20th century that it charged what it
wanted. When Airbus shocked executives with rising sales and
lower costs, Boeing tried to spend itself out of the threat. It
bought Rockwell International Corp.’s space and defense business
in 1996, McDonnell Douglas Corp. in 1997 and Hughes Space &
Communications in 2000.  
 In the four years ended on Dec. 31, 1999, aircraft
deliveries more than doubled to 620. Suppliers couldn’t keep up,
and planes waiting for parts snarled factories. Boeing shut down
for a month to sort out the mess. Then, after the Sept. 11,
2001, attacks, orders evaporated. Boeing cut 43,000 jobs, one-
fifth of its workforce.  
 ‘We Lost Control’  
 That was just a hint of things to come. Alan Mulally, who
ran commercial aircraft from 1998 to 2006 and is now CEO of Ford
Motor Co., began developing the 787 by mimicking the outsourcing
at McDonnell Douglas.  
 He hired Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. and Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries Ltd. to build 787 wings. Alenia Aeronautica SpA in
Rome; Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. in Nagoya, Japan; Spirit;
and Vought made fuselage sections.  
 “We lost control,” Albaugh says. “We gave work to people
that did not have, in hindsight, as much experience as we wish
they had.” Mulally declined to comment.  
 When Boeing rushed out the 787 for the world to see in July
2007, partly to lure airlines that planned to fly to the
Olympics in Beijing the following year, it was held together
with temporary bolts. Suppliers felt overwhelmed.  
 “There were too many changes at the same time,” says
Aravind Melligeri, chairman of Quest Global, which makes cargo-
door and landing-gear components in Bangalore, India.  
 ‘Bass-Ackwards’  
 Boeing leaders forgot basic plane-making rules, McNerney
says.  
 “We stretched for volume to respond to a very real Airbus
threat,” he says. “The 787 was characterized by making
promises to the marketplace before you’d satisfied yourself you
had the engineering in bed to get it done. That’s bass-
ackwards.”  
 McNerney is also defending the rest of his lineup. Boeing
is redesigning both the 737, the world’s most widely flown
plane, and the 777, Boeing’s most profitable jet.  
 “Airbus is responding to the 787,” he says. “They’ll
again be forced to respond to what we do with the 777.”  
 McNerney will unveil plans for the 777 by March 2011. “You
look at the engine,” he says. “You look at the wings.”  
 Both companies will decide this year whether to offer new
engines for their 737-style planes by 2013 to boost fuel
efficiency or to introduce a new jet after 2020. Boeing’s
preference is to wait, CFO Bell says.  
 ‘Better Product’  
 Allan McArtor, chairman of Airbus Americas Inc., says he’s
not worried.  
 “The A350 is a better product,” he says of the plane,
which competes with the 777 and 787. “They’ve eaten up their
marketing advantage with the delays.”  
 Even as the 787 buoys investor enthusiasm, Boeing’s defense
business maybe in for turbulence. Obama proposed a 1.8 percent
increase over inflation for Pentagon spending for 2011, down
from an average of 4 percent under President George W. Bush.
Boeing contracts for cargo planes, reconnaissance satellites,
space exploration and border security have been scaled back.  
 “Defense revenue is going to contract,” says T. Rowe
Price’s Rowlett. “The question is whether it will reset at a
point 5 to 10 percent lower and then grow or whether we’re in
for a much bigger drop.”  
 Dennis Muilenburg, Boeing’s defense chief, is looking for
orders overseas and updating the 34-year-old F-15 fighter with
stealth coatings. At 45, he’s one of the youngest Boeing
executives to hold such a senior position.  
 ‘Big Action’  
 “You’re going to see some big action on the F-15 over the
next couple months,” McNerney said after a March trip to Saudi
Arabia.  
 McNerney is cutting the price of his planes to exploit the
four-year delay, until 2016, of Lockheed Martin Corp.’s F-35 jet
fighter. He’s offering the Pentagon 124 F-18 variants called
Super Hornets and Growlers for $49.9 million each, down from $68
million in 2000.  
 Boeing plans to make 50 F-18 variants this year compared
with 26 a decade ago, with less manpower. To reduce labor costs,
the company redesigned metal spars that are used inside wings so
they arrive in grids instead of separately.  
 Boeing began studying such techniques at Toyota in the
1990s. A decade ago, Boeing used to stuff 30 of the 737s into an
assembly bay in Renton, Washington. It parked the aircraft with
wingtips a few feet from the next fuselage, moving them for the
next day’s work.  
 More With Less  
 Today, the bay holds 12 planes, with 5 on an assembly line.
Carts come to workers loaded with tools and parts for the day’s
work. In 2001, about 6,000 workers made 326 planes, according to
the machinists association. In 2009, a workforce two-thirds that
size built 372 planes.  
 Renton workers also make the P-8A submarine chaser, a 737
with torpedoes and missiles. Eighty percent of the parts are
different from those in stock 737s, yet Boeing schedules their
delivery so precisely that P-8A fuselages coming from Wichita
are built on the same assembly lines as 737s, one after the
other.  
 McNerney’s biggest challenge may be establishing labor
peace. Ever since McDonnell Douglas executives replaced longtime
Boeing directors and the company moved its headquarters, union
members have blasted their bosses.  
 “If Phil Condit was talking with a guy with a rivet gun,
he knew what that person did,” says Mark Blondin, the
machinists association’s aerospace coordinator. “People running
this company now have never touched an airplane.”  
 Inciting a Strike?  
 One of Albaugh’s first decisions was to build a second 787
plant in South Carolina, where workers can’t be required to join
unions. After four strikes in two decades, Boeing needs to keep
up deliveries, Albaugh says.  
 Association President Tom Buffenbarger says Boeing is
inciting a walkout in 2012, when the contract for 27,000 workers
runs out.  
 “Their ability to sustain a long strike: I don’t know what
it would be at that point,” he says.  
 McNerney says he’s puzzled when machinists, who earn $26 an
hour, demand more money.  
 “The Chinese are coming,” he says. “The cozy world of
just the two of us is almost over.”  
 Place in History  
 Above all, the 787 will determine McNerney’s place in
history, says Fort Pitt’s Smith. “If two years from now he’s
producing eight or ten 787s a month, we’ll say he was very
capable,” he says. “Until then, the jury’s out.”  
 McNerney says he could have moved faster to fix production
glitches on the world’s most innovative airliner. Lapses in the
next 4 1/2 years, before he retires at 65, could be disastrous
for a company with a history of stretching shareholders’
patience.  
 With the first 787s due by year-end, investors want to be
sure McNerney can deliver steady profits and keep the stock
price -- like the Dreamliner -- flying.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
John Lippert at   jlippert@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray at   sray7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Boeing Co. 787 Dreamliner aircraft sit on the production floor during final assembly in Everett on March 16, 2010. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       A Boeing 747-8 cargo plane during final assembly  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Acker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Roger Howe calibrates flight controls in the nose of a Boeing 747-8 cargo plane during final assembly in Everett, Washington, on March 16, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Roger Howe calibrates flight controls in the nose of a Boeing 747-8 cargo plane during final assembly in Everett, Washington, on March 16, 2010. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Jeff Payne inspects seats as Boeing Co. 737 aircraft are assembled nearby in a Boeing final assembly facility in Renton, Washington, on March 17, 2010. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Monte Heincker rides in a lift as he removes positioning targets from a Boeing 787 composite forward fuselage section after window and door openings were laser cut at Spirit AeroSystems in Wichita, Kansas, on March 11, 2010. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A worker walks inside a Boeing 787 composite forward fuselage section at Spirit AeroSystems in Wichita, Kansas, on Thursday, March 11, 2010. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     John Doaz, top, and Darrell Kluin use vacuum units to catch debris as holes are drilled through two connecting composite sections of a Boeing Co. 787 Dreamliner aircraft during final assembly in Everett, Washington, on March 16, 2010. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Wendy Armstrong prepares a Boeing 737 fuselage for primer at Spirit AeroSystems in Wichita, Kansas, on March 11, 2010. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A Boeing Co. 787 Dreamliner aircraft sits on the production floor during final assembly in Everett, Washington, on March 16, 2010. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     David Dethman prepares hydraulic lines for installation in a portion of a Boeing Co. 737 aircraft on the production floor of the Boeing final assembly facility in Renton, Washington, on March 17, 2010. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Leroy Cinnamon installs electrical wiring inside a Boeing 747-8 cargo plane during final assembly in Everett, Washington, on March 16, 2010. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
