-- Vigilantes Let Yields Surge With Meirelles Passive
-- Camila Fontana
-- 2010-04-26T21:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/bond-vigilantes-let-yields-surge-with-meirelles-passive-as-inflation-rises.html

          
          
               Brazil ’s fixed-rate bonds are
yielding the most compared with inflation-linked notes in at
least two years on concern central bank President Henrique Meirelles won’t move fast enough to curb rising prices.  
 The gap between yields on the securities due 2013 swelled
62 basis points to 609 basis points, or 6.09 percentage points,
since March 17, when Meirelles left the benchmark interest rate
at a record low 8.75 percent. That is the widest since the
inflation-linked notes were issued in January 2008.  
 Investors are driving up yields as economists forecast
inflation will climb to 5.4 percent by December, the highest
year-end estimate in central bank surveys in 16 months.
Meirelles, who considered seeking elected office this year, said
in an interview yesterday in  Washington  that “vigorous action”
is needed to contain inflation as the economy becomes
“heated.” He convenes a two-day policy meeting tomorrow.  
 “They will have to raise rates to send a message to the
market that they are vigilant toward inflation and not going to
let the political cycle interfere with monetary policy,” said
Alexander Kozhemiakin, who helps manage more than $4 billion of
debt as the emerging-market strategy director at Standish Mellon
Asset Management in  Boston .  
 Yields on government 10 percent fixed-rate bonds due 2013
climbed 70 basis points to 12.72 percent since the March 17
policy meeting. The inflation-linked bond yield fell 35 basis
points in the first 15 days after the decision to 6.2 percent
before climbing to 6.63 percent on April 23.  
 Raising Rates  
 The central bank will lift its benchmark Selic rate for the
first time in 19 months this week by at least 50 basis points,
according to all 51 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Policy makers need to “regain control” after economists
pushed up inflation forecasts for 14 straight weeks in the
central bank survey, said  Siobhan Morden , a strategist with RBS
Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . RBS boosted its call
on April 14 for a 75 basis-point increase from 50 basis points.  
 “The market is bullying the central bank into becoming
more forceful,” Morden said. “Inflation expectations are
deteriorating. The burden is on the central bank to regain
control. They have to say: ‘Listen, we are not behind the
curve.’”  
 Rate Futures  
 The yield on the interbank rate futures contract due in
January rose jumped 13 basis points to 10.86 percent, the
highest level since March 2009, at 4:55 p.m. New York time today
as traders stepped up bets on rate increases.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian dollar-
bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  narrowed three basis points
today to 1.75 percentage points, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. indexes. The yield gap touched 1.67 percentage points on
April 15, the smallest since October 2007. The average spread
for emerging-market dollar debt overall fell two basis points to
2.41 percentage points.  
 Brazil’s dollar bonds have returned 3.6 percent this year,
trailing the 4.9 percent average gain for developing countries,
according to JPMorgan indexes. Brazil’s real-denominated debt
returned 0.1 percent last week, increasing its gain this year to
2.6 percent, compared with 1 percent for  developing countries  on
average, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s ELMI+ indexes.  
 Currency Gains  
 The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years rose two basis points today to 118 basis points,
according to CMA DataVision prices. The cost dropped to 110
basis points on April 15, the lowest in seven months.  
 The real strengthened 0.7 percent to 1.7448 per dollar
after climbing a fourth straight week last week, the longest
winning streak since October. The real is little changed this
year after appreciating 33 percent in 2009, the world’s best-
performing major currency.  
 Banco do Brasil SA, Latin America’s largest lender by
assets, and Banco Panamericano SA, led $1.5 billion of dollar-
denominated debt sales by Brazilian borrowers last week.
Corporate bond sales this year of $12.6 billion almost tripled
the amount from the year-earlier period, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Brazilian companies have registered documents to sell 6.7
billion reais in local-currency debt this year, according to
data from the market regulator known as CVM.  
 Investors are overestimating inflation as the recovery in
Latin America’s biggest economy quickens, said Pablo Cisilino,
who manages $12.5 billion in emerging market debt at Stone
Harbor Investment Partners in  New York .  
 ‘Nervous’ Investors  
 “The market is nervous,” Cisilino said. “But the central
bank knows what it’s doing. It’s reassuring.”  
 Meirelles, 64, said yesterday that policy makers are
prepared to cool growth.  
 Brazil’s economy “is heated and there’s a risk of
overheating, but we certainly won’t allow that to happen given
the central bank is ready to take the necessary measures,” he
said in an interview in Washington, where he attended the
International Monetary Fund meetings.  
 ‘Transitory’  
 Meirelles told investors today in New York that the next
government needs to be “very serious” to keep inflation inside
the target range.  
 Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said at the same conference
that inflationary pressures such as food price increases are
“transitory.” He also said the government may take more
measures to prevent gains in the real.  
 Inflation climbed to an 11-month high of 5.2 percent in the
12 months through mid-April from 5.1 percent through mid-March
and 4.3 percent at the end of 2009, according to the statistics
agency. The central bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent. In
the U.S., by comparison, consumer prices rose 2.3 percent in the
12 months through March.  
 The median economist estimate for Brazilian inflation this
year jumped to 5.4 percent in the central bank’s survey released
today, from 4.5 percent on Jan. 8. The economy will expand 6
percent this year, according to the survey median, up from 5.2
percent at the beginning of the year.  
 “It used to be very clear that if inflation expectations
were way above target, they would tighten,” said  Oscar Sanchez ,
senior Latin America economist at Scotia Capital in Toronto.
“It used to be very clear that the central bank was going to
act independently. You don’t see that anymore.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Camila Fontana in  Sao Paulo  at 
 cfontana@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        