-- Boston Scientific Reports Wider First-Quarter Loss on Heart-Device Recall
-- David Olmos
-- 2010-04-26T23:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/boston-scientific-reports-wider-first-quarter-loss-on-heart-device-recall.html

          
          
             Boston Scientific Corp. reported a
wider first-quarter loss after writing off $1.8 billion in costs
related to the monthlong recall of its implantable heart
defibrillators.  
 The net loss, with the goodwill impairment charge, widened
to $1.59 billion, or $1.05 a share, from a loss of $13 million,
or 1 cent, in the period a year earlier, the Natick,
Massachusetts-based company said today in a statement. Earnings
excluding some items were 16 cents a share, compared with the
average estimate of 8 cents in a Bloomberg survey of 19
analysts. The company also lowered its sales and earnings
forecasts for 2010.  
 Boston Scientific, the second-biggest medical device maker
by sales, pulled its implantable cardiac defibrillators from the
market March 15 after failing to notify federal regulators of
manufacturing changes. The recall may cost the device maker 5
percentage points off its 29 percent share of the $4.3 billion
U.S. market, Wells Fargo Securities analyst Larry Biegelsen said
in an April 15 note to investors.  
 “The big question mark is how much more share loss over
the next few years will result from the recall,” Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. analyst Derrick Sung said today in a telephone
interview. “Frankly, I don’t think anyone knows.”  
 Forecast Lowered  
 Boston Scientific cited the recall in lowering its sales
forecast for 2010 to a range of $7.6 billion to $8 billion,
compared with $8.1 billion to $8.5 billion estimated Feb. 10.
The company now estimates a net loss of 88 cents a share to $1 a
share, down from its previous guidance of earnings of 37 cents
to 49 cents a share. Revenue declined 2.5 percent to $1.96
billion.  
 The company’s management is either being “exceedingly
conservative” or it expects a more severe erosion in profits
from the defibrillator recall or in the stent market, Sean
Lavin, a Lazard Capital Markets analyst, said of the forecast.  
 “Regardless of reason, numbers are likely to move
significantly lower and we would expect shares to follow,”
Lavin said today in a note to investors.  
 Boston Scientific declined 27 cents, or 3.8 percent, to
$6.79 at 6:35 p.m. in extended trading on the New York Stock
Exchange after dropping 15 cents to $7.06 at the 4 p.m. close.
The company’s shares fell 16 percent in the past 12 months.  
 U.S. Regulations  
 Boston Scientific pulled its cardiac defibrillators from
warehouses and hospitals on March 15 after disclosing it had
failed to gain U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval for
manufacturing changes. The FDA allowed sales of its Cognis and
Teligen defibrillators to resume on April 15, Boston Scientific
said in a statement. The agency found new documentation problems
with some older defibrillator models and has not allowed the
company to resume sales of those products, the company said.  
 “It was a challenging quarter,” said Chief Executive
Officer Ray Elliott in the company’s statement.  
 Sales of cardiac-rhythm devices, which include implantable
defibrillators and pacemakers, fell 8.7 percent to $538 million,
from a year earlier. The decline was in part due to sales lost
during the last two weeks in March because of the recall.  
 Pacemakers monitor the heart for faulty rhythms and deliver
an electrical pulse when an abnormal rhythm is detected.
Implantable defibrillators deliver strong electrical shocks when
they detect irregular, life-threatening heartbeats that could
cause sudden cardiac arrest.  
 Stent Sales  
 Worldwide sales of drug-coated stents, which are tiny mesh
screens used to prop open clogged heart arteries, fell 8.5
percent, the company said. Boston Scientific’s global share of
the drug-coated stent market declined to 38 percent from 44
percent reported a year earlier, according to the statement. Its
U.S. market share fell to 45 percent from 50 percent.  
 “The pattern of share loss is pretty consistent with what
we were expecting,” Sung said.  
 The company’s older Taxus stent has been losing market
share in the U.S., Europe and Japan, Sung said in an April 14
note to investors. Some of that share has been recovered by
sales of the Promus Element stent, a licensed copy of Abbott
Laboratories Xience stent, he said.  
 St. Jude Medical Inc., based in St. Paul, Minnesota, said
on April 21 that its first-quarter sales benefited about $20
million to $25 million as a result of Boston Scientific’s
defibrillator recall, which prompted physicians to turn to other
suppliers of the devices. St. Jude’s quarterly profit rose 19
percent to $239 million.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
David Olmos in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        