-- Bovespa Stock Index Declines on Oil Price Retreat, Interest Rate Concern
-- Alexander Ragir
-- 2010-04-26T20:51:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/bovespa-stock-index-futures-advance-as-greece-bailout-boosts-metals-prices.html

          
          
             The Bovespa stock index fell for
the first time in four sessions as oil prices retreated and
traders increased bets for higher interest rates.  
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company, dropped more than 2 percent as crude prices declined
for the first time in five days after the dollar strengthened
against the euro, reducing the appeal of commodities to
investors. Homebuilders MRV Engenharia & Participacoes SA and
PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos e Participacoes slid on concern
the central bank will boost borrowing costs this week.  
 The Bovespa stock index fell 0.9 percent to 68,871.94.
Fifty-one stocks declined on the index while 11 rose. The real
strengthened for a second day, gaining 0.6 percent to 1.7458 per
dollar. The BM&FBovespa Small Cap index slid 0.5 percent to
1,147.36.  
 “A lot of people are concerned about higher interest
rates,” said Joao Pedro Brugger, who helps oversee 70 million
reais ($40 million) at Leme Investimentos in Florianopolis,
Brazil.  “The market is stopped around these levels with not
many new triggers today.”  
 Petrobras dropped 69 centavos to 33.31 reais. Oil retreated
1.1 percent as the euro dropped for the seventh time in eight
days on concern the European Union-led Greek bailout plan will
be held up.  
 Yields on Brazilian interest-rate futures contracts jumped
to a 13-month high as traders stepped up bets on this week’s
interest-rate increase after central bank President Henrique
Meirelles said that “vigorous action” is required to contain
inflation.  
 Homebuilders Retreat  
 MRV lost 3.2 percent to 11.68 reais. PDG retreated 1.5
percent to 15.40 reais.  
 Klabin SA climbed 2.8 percent, the biggest gain in almost
three weeks, after Itau Unibanco Holding SA boosted its rating
on the stock, citing the potential for pulp price increases.  
 Klabin may raise cardboard prices by as much as 14 percent
this quarter after increasing them as much as 8 percent in the
first quarter, Marcos Assumpcao, an analyst at Itau in Sao
Paulo, wrote in a research note. Together with higher exports
and prices for other products, Klabin’s earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization may reach 1.05
billion reais this year, up from a previous estimate of 930
million, Assumpcao said.  
 Pulp Outlook  
 “We expect Klabin to implement paper price increases in
its main segments as demand remains strong,” Assumpcao wrote.
Klabin has underperformed pulp producers Fibria SA and Suzano
Papel & Celulose SA in the past year and “this trend could be
reversed as it is becoming clearer that pulp prices are reaching
a peak,” he said.  
 The Bovespa index has climbed 0.4 percent this year,
extending last year’s 83 percent gain, boosted by higher
commodity prices and expectations gross domestic product will
grow more than 5 percent this year, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  
 The Bovespa trades for 13.2 times analysts’ 2010 earnings
estimates, compared with 16.3 times for Mexico’s Bolsa, 18.4
times for Chile’s Ipsa and 23 times for Colombia’s IGBC Index,
according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg. The Bovespa
trades at 17.3 times the reported profits of its companies after
fetching 25.5 times in November, the most in almost six years,
weekly data show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in Sao Paulo at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        