-- BP Oil Well Leak in Gulf May Take Months to Close
-- Jordan Burke
-- 2010-04-26T16:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/bp-s-gulf-oil-well-leak-may-take-months-to-shut-after-drilling-rig-sinks.html

          
          
             BP Plc said it may take months to
drill a well to stop an oil spill under the Gulf of Mexico that
threatens to become an environmental disaster.  
 BP and Swiss drilling contractor Transocean Ltd. began
using remote-controlled vehicles yesterday to try to halt the
1,000 barrel-a-day leak. If that doesn’t work, BP may need to
pump heavy fluid into a relief well to stop the flow of crude
from the seabed.  
 The cleanup following an explosion that sank Transocean’s
Deepwater Horizon rig last week is the biggest in at least 20
years, according to the Marine Spill Response Corp., one of the
companies involved in the operation. The disaster, which left 11
missing, has caused a 600-square-mile (1,600 square kilometers)
oil slick, about the same size as Houston.  
 “The relief well as described could take several months,”
Doug Suttles, BP’s chief operating officer of exploration and
production, said in a teleconference yesterday.  
 BP Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward has spent his first
three years in charge restoring the company’s reputation for
safety following a fatal explosion at the Texas City, Texas,
refinery in 2005. A search for 11 workers missing since the rig
caught fire and sank has been suspended. The accident may cost
insurers and reinsurers $1.6 billion, according to an estimate
by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 BP shares fell 2 percent in London today to 626.8 pence,
the biggest February 17th. The U.K. benchmark FTSE 100 index
rose 0.5 percent.  
 Remote Controlled  
 The remote-controlled vehicles are seeking to shut a
blowout valve to stop oil rising to the ocean floor. If the
valve isn’t activated the companies may need to drill a second
well to intercept the leakage and inject a heavy fluid to
prevent oil or gas from escaping, London-based BP said in a
statement.  
 Activating the blowout valve could take 24 to 36 hours,
Suttles said yesterday. Transocean is shipping two rigs to help
stop the leak, with the first scheduled to arrive today and the
second May 2.  
 Oil is leaking out in two places at the site, said David
Nicholas, a spokesman in London for BP, which is responsible for
the cleanup. Thunderstorms, rain and rough seas are hampering
efforts to clean up the spillage, according to a statement
yesterday from the Coast Guard, BP and Transocean.  
 With more than 1,000 people working on the operation, costs
total “several million dollars” so far, said Coast Guard Rear
Admiral Mary Landry, who is overseeing the rescue and cleanup.  
 The accident took place off Louisiana, where exploration
was being carried out on the Macondo field. BP, the biggest oil
producer in the Gulf of Mexico, had leased the Deepwater Horizon
rig from Transocean for drilling.  
 Shoreline Threat  
 The spill, about 30 miles (50 kilometers) from the coast,
won’t reach a shoreline within the next three days, said Charlie
Henry, a scientific support coordinator with the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration during a teleconference
yesterday. It’s unknown when the well can be capped, she said.  
 In some environmentally sensitive areas, Louisiana state
authorities have begun installing booms, a type of floating net
used to trap and gather any spilled oil on the water, as a
precaution. Of the 600 square mile spill, 97 percent is
considered oil sheen, or thin layer, above the water.  
 If the missing workers died, it would be the deadliest U.S.
offshore rig explosion since 1968, when 11 died and 20 were
injured at a platform owned by Gulf Oil Corp., according to data
from the Minerals Management Service. A 1987 helicopter crash
aboard a Forest Oil Corp. platform killed 14 people.  
 Fifteen workers were killed and more than 100 injured in an
explosion at BP’s Texas City refinery.  
 The Gulf spill compares to the 1989 Exxon Valdez accident,
one of the worst man-made environmental disasters, which dumped
260,000 barrels of oil near Alaska.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter J. Brennan in Los Angeles at 
 pbrennan3@bloomberg.net ;
Jordan Burke in New York at 
 jburke29@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Anthony "Tony" Hayward, chief executive officer of BP Plc, speaks to reporters following a speech at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, on March 23, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
