-- Brazil May Take Additional Steps to Curb Currency's Advance, Mantega Says
-- Fabiola Moura
-- 2010-04-26T22:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/brazil-may-take-additional-steps-to-curb-currency-s-advance-mantega-says.html

          
          
             Brazil’s government may take
additional steps to limit gains in the real should advanced
economies favor policies that keep their currencies weak,
Finance Minister Guido Mantega said.  
 “We will take further measures if we don’t reach an
agreement,” Mantega said today in New York. Last year, Brazil
implemented a tax on foreign purchases of stock and fixed-income
investment in a bid to stem the currency’s advance.  
 Mantega said he was “worried” after last weekend’s
International Monetary Fund meetings in Washington, where
officials from the U.S. and other developed nations said they
intend to keep their benchmark interest rates low. Reduced
lending rates can weaken currencies by prompting investors to
shift their money to countries where rates are higher.  
 “I told my colleagues we won’t just watch the
deterioration of our situation,” Mantega said. A stronger real
would put Brazilian exporters at a disadvantage by making their
goods more expensive in dollar terms.  
 After gaining 33 percent last year, the best performance
against the dollar among the 16 most traded currencies tracked
by Bloomberg, the real has lost 0.1 percent in 2010.  
 Brazil can’t rule out increasing levies on imported goods
and will seek broader trade agreements with other emerging
market economies to fight the excessive devaluation of the U.S.
dollar, Mantega said. He declined to say what specific measures
might be taken.  
 Global Imbalances  
 An undervalued dollar, not the Chinese yuan’s peg, is the
leading cause of worldwide foreign exchange and trade tensions,
Mantega said. China fixes its currency at 6.83 to the U.S.
dollar.  
 “Every time the dollar weakens, it causes foreign exchange
imbalances in the world,” Mantega said. “This is worsened by
the fact that the euro is also undervalued and some Asiatic
currencies are pegged to the dollar and therefore weaken
together.”  
 The IMF also supports the use of capital controls to help
offset the excessive appreciation of currencies in some
economies, Nicolas Eyzaguirre, the director of the Western
Hemisphere department, said April 24 in Washington.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabiola Moura in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        