-- Brazilian Future Yields Jump to 13-Month High as `Vigorous Action' Pledged
-- Camila Fontana
-- 2010-04-26T19:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/brazil-yields-rise-to-highest-in-13-months-before-central-bank-meeting.html

          
          
             Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures contracts jumped to a 13-month high as traders stepped
up bets on this week’s interest-rate increase after central bank
President Henrique Meirelles said that “vigorous action” is
required to contain inflation.  
 The yield on the contract due in January soared 12 basis
points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 10.85 percent at 3:10 p.m.
New York time, its highest closing level since March 5, 2009.  
 All 49 economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect policy
makers to raise the benchmark interest rate by at least half a
percentage point from a record low 8.75 percent on April 28 to
slow inflation that’s exceeded their target since January.  
 Meirelles said in an interview yesterday that he was
prepared to take the “necessary measures” to rein in inflation
as the risk of the economy “overheating” emerges.  
 “In situations like this one, we need a program of
vigorous action,” Meirelles, 64, said in an interview in
Washington, where he attended the International Monetary Fund
meetings.  
 He said at a conference in New York today that the next
government, which will take over for President Luiz Inacio Lula
da Silva’s administration next year, will have to be “very
serious” to keep inflation within the target range.  
 ‘No Doubt’  
 “Meirelles left no doubt that he will use force when
changing the interest rate,” said Paulo Nepomuceno, a fixed
income strategist at Coinvalores CCVM, who helps manage 430
million reais ($246.4 million) in assets. “There is no need for
interpretation of his comments anymore. The market is pricing in
an increase of 75 basis points,” he said in a telephone
interview from Sao Paulo.  
 Consumer prices in Sao Paulo rose 0.34 percent in the month
through April 22, from 0.23 percent in the previous month,
according to a report released today by the Foundation Economics
Research Institute. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of
nine economists was for an advance of 0.25 percent.  
 “Inflation hasn’t decelerated in April as many people
expected and economic activity is very strong,” said Tarcisio
Rodrigues, currency director at Banco Paulista SA, a Sao Paulo-
based bank. “Investors are positioning themselves for an
increase of 75 or even 100 basis points.”  
 Economists expect the central bank to raise the benchmark
rate to 11.75 percent by year-end, up from a forecast of 11.5
percent a week earlier, according to a weekly central bank
survey of about 100 economists published today.  
 Rising Real  
 The prospect of higher interest rates is attracting more
foreign capital and boosting the local currency, Rodrigues said.
The real advanced 0.7 percent today to 1.7450 per dollar, from
1.7565 on April 23.  
 The real pared gains after Finance Minister Guido Mantega
said in New York the government may take more measures to limit
gains in the currency. The country levied a 2 percent tax on
foreign purchases of stocks and bonds last October.  
 Morgan Stanley said Brazil’s economy and inflation will
accelerate faster this year than it previously expected as
recent data show the economy is “red hot” and “firing on all
cylinders.”  
 Morgan Stanley, in a report written by economist Marcelo
Carvalho, raised its forecast for 2010 economic growth to 6.8
percent from a 5.8 percent forecast made in March. It was the
second revision this year. That would be the strongest annual
pace in more than 20 years, Carvalho wrote.  
 The central bank will need to lift the Selic rate by 4
percentage points by the first half of 2011 to cool the economy,
according to Carvalho. Foreign inflows into Brazil will
strengthen the currency to 1.65 per dollar by the end of this
year, from a previous forecast of 1.7, he wrote.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Camila Fontana in Sao Paulo at 
 cfontana@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        