-- Brazil Inflation Must be Taken Seriously When Lula Leaves, Meirelles Says
-- Andre Soliani
-- 2010-04-26T17:26:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/brazil-inflation-must-be-taken-seriously-when-lula-leaves-meirelles-says.html

          
          
             Brazil’s next government will need
to be “very serious” about keeping inflation within its target
range so real interest rates can continue to fall, Central Bank
President Henrique Meirelles said.  
 “Real interest rates are on a downward trend,” Meirelles
said at an event today in New York. “It’s important that in
order to keep it that way, the next government be very serious
about keeping inflation inside the target.”  
 Inflation in the 12 months though mid-April accelerated to
an 11-month high of 5.22 percent and exceeded the government’s
4.5 percent target for the third month in a row. All 41
economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect policy makers meeting
this week to raise the benchmark interest rate for the first
time since September 2008 to slow inflation.  
 The central bank has kept the overnight rate at a record
low 8.75 percent since July to foster economic growth that may
quicken this year to the fastest pace in more than two decades.
Brazil lowered borrowing costs to fight the global financial
crisis, spurring credit growth and boosting domestic demand.  
 Brazil’s real interest rate, or the difference between the
8.75 percent benchmark rate and the country’s 5.22 percent
annual inflation rate, is 3.53 percent. That’s the third highest
among 53 countries tracked by Bloomberg, behind Latvia and
Croatia.  
 Meirelles said that inflation and higher interest rates
will help cool demand, ensuring that Brazil will grow
sustainably, with prices under control.  
 Yields Rising  
 Traders are pricing in a 71 basis-point increase on April
28, according to Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate
futures. Given that the central bank raises rates in increments
of 25 basis points, futures show that most traders expect a 75
basis-point increase on April 28.  
 Yields on Brazilian interest rate future contracts rose,
with the contract due January 2011 increasing as much as 10
basis points to 10.83 percent, the highest since March 2009. The
yield rose nine basis points to 10.82 percent at 11:58 a.m. New
York time. The yield on that contract has gained 0.42 percentage
point this month as inflation expectations accelerated.  
 Brazilian policy makers will take “vigorous action”
against inflation to ensure that Latin America’s biggest economy
doesn’t overheat, Meirelles said in an interview yesterday in
Washington, on the sidelines of the International Monetary
Fund’s spring meetings.  
 Brazil’s economy “is heated and there’s a risk of
overheating, but we certainly won’t allow that to happen given
that the central bank is ready to take the necessary measures,”
Meirelles, 64, said in the interview.  
 50 or 75 Points  
 Meirelles’ comments “signal that the central bank may
increase rates by more than 50 basis points,” Zeina Latif, ING
Bank NV’s chief economist in Sao Paulo, said in a phone
interview.  
 The last time the central bank started increasing rates, in
April 2008, it surprised 34 of 46 economists by opting for a
bigger-than-expected increase.  
 The bank said at the time it was frontloading the rate
increases in a bid to “reduce the scope” of the total
adjustment. The bank went on to raise the overnight rate four
times from 11.25 percent to 13.75 percent in September 2008.  
 Analysts are split over the size of the interest rate
increase they see policy makers implementing at the end of their
two-day meeting this week, the Bloomberg survey of economists
shows. While 24 economists expect a half-point increase in the
Selic to 9.25 percent, 16 expect an increase of three quarters
of a percentage point and one sees a full-point increase.  
 ‘Brazil’s Challenge’  
 Inflation quickened to 5.2 percent in the 12 months through
mid-April, and will rise 5.41 percent by year-end, according to
a central bank survey of about 100 analysts taken April 23 and
published today. The same weekly survey showed analysts expect
consumer prices to increase 5.80 in 2011, exceeding the
government’s target of 4.5 percent as well.  
 “Brazil’s challenge in the next 12 months is to keep
inflation in line with targets,” Meirelles said.  
 After slipping into a recession in 2009, Brazil’s $1.8
trillion economy may expand this year at the fastest pace in
more than two decades, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc,
which is forecasting a 6.4 percent expansion. Morgan Stanley
today raised its forecast for Brazil to grow to 6.8 percent,
faster than a previously estimated 5.8 percent.  
 ‘Imperative’  
 Meirelles, the former head of global banking at FleetBoston
Corp., said the economy is recovering at the pace policy makers
had expected and that the timeline laid out in December for
phasing out anti-crisis stimulus measures remains adequate.  
 The central bank’s decision to leave the benchmark Selic
rate unchanged last month surprised 30 of 57 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey who were predicting a 50 basis-point increase.  
 Alexandre Schwartsman, chief economist at Banco Santander
SA in Sao Paulo and a former central bank board member under
Meirelles, said that he had “difficulties” understanding the
decision, given that policy makers in their minutes said a
“tightening cycle is an imperative.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani Costa in Washington at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        