-- Brazil Coffee Growers Push for Government Aid, Purchases to Bolster Prices
-- Katia Cortes
-- 2010-04-26T19:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/brazil-coffee-growers-push-for-government-aid-purchases-to-bolster-prices.html

          
          
             Coffee growers in Brazil, the
world’s biggest producer of the commodity, are pushing the
government to boost purchases of the bean to help bolster prices
as output may rise to a record this year, a farm group said.  
 Growers want the government to buy as many as 5 million
bags of coffee in auctions this year for about 1.5 billion reais
($860 million), said Rosemeire Santos, a director of the
National Agriculture Confederation, a lobbying group. In 2009,
Brazil offered to purchase 3 million bags.  
 The auctions would help prop up prices by taking beans out
of the market as Brazilian coffee trees enter the higher-
yielding half of a two-year cycle, Santos said. Government
purchases could boost domestic prices for the commodity by
almost a quarter to 320 reais a bag, she said.  
 “Brazil needs to be prepared for a large crop and keep
supplies in check to avert price drops,” Santos said today in
an interview in Brasilia.  
 Brazil may harvest 45.9 million to 48.7 million coffee bags
this year, up from 39.5 million a year earlier, the Agriculture
Ministry said Jan. 7. Coffee production in Brazil reached a
record 48.5 million bags in 2002.  
 Growers started talks with the Agriculture Ministry this
month and expect the purchases to be approved by the National
Monetary Council next month, Santos said.  
 Under the plan, the government would offer contracts giving
farmers the option to sell their coffee at a set price in case
they fail to find higher prices in the market. The auctions
would be held between August and November for delivery starting
in December, according to the group’s proposal to the
government.  
 Government Loans  
 Growers will also seek 18-month loans to stockpile 20
million coffee bags, Santos said. A bag of coffee beans weighs
60 kilograms, or 132 pounds.  
 Arabica-coffee futures for July delivery rose 0.7 cent, or
0.5 percent, to $1.3265 a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York
today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Cortes in Brasilia at 
 kcortes@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        