-- Bridgestone Says Yuan Policy Won't Affect `Aggressive' China Sales Growth
-- Yasumasa Song
-- 2010-04-26T07:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/bridgestone-says-yuan-appreciation-won-t-affect-china-sales-tire-imports.html

          
          
             Bridgestone Corp., the world’s
largest tiremaker, expects sales volumes in China to increase
“aggressively” this year even if the nation allows its
currency to appreciate against the dollar.  
 Sales of tires for trucks and buses in China will probably
exceed the 2008 level by more than 10 percent, Director Yujiro
Kanahara said in an interview. Car and sports-utility tire sales
will also grow, he said. The Tokyo-based company doesn’t
disclose specific figures.  
 China’s car sales jumped 76 percent to 3.52 million units
in the first quarter as government stimulus policies helped
boost demand in the world’s biggest vehicle market. A yuan
revaluation could make tire imports cheaper and lower the cost
of raw material purchases, boosting competition among producers.
China may allow its currency to appreciate by June 30 to curb
inflation, a Bloomberg survey of analysts showed this month.  
 “We don’t expect China to increase tire imports, even if
it allows the yuan’s appreciation, as the government protects
the domestic market by tariffs,” Kanahara said in an interview
in Tokyo. “A stronger Chinese currency would cut purchasing
costs” for rubber from abroad, intensifying price competition
among tiremakers, he said.  
 Bridgestone operates four tire plants in China, selling
most of the products made there in the domestic market. The
company plans to boost production in the country by 43 percent
from last year to 100,000 metric tons this year. It also exports
tires to China from Japan, where the company’s output is
expected to rise by 16 percent to 510,000 tons this year.  
 Record Price  
 Growth in Chinese demand and a seasonal drop in supply from
Thailand, the world’s largest exporter, has sent cash rubber
prices surging. The free-on-board price, which excludes freight
and insurance, of Thai RSS-3 grade rubber for May-delivery rose
to a record 128.55 baht ($4.0) per kilogram on April 23,
according to the Rubber Institute of Thailand.  
 “It is an abnormal, unbelievable price,” Kanahara said.
The rally may have been caused by “not only fundamentals but
speculative moves as well,” Kaoru Tomizawa, Bridgestone’s
public relations manager, said in the same interview on April 23.  
 “We have routes to secure the raw material without making
deals in the market,” Tomizawa said. The company uses short-
term and longer-term hedging to control the effect of price
changes, he said, without elaborating.  
 Rubber represents about 50 percent of the volume of each
tire, Tomizawa said. Half of the rubber used in tires is natural,
and the rest is synthetic made from petroleum.  
 Rubber Substitution  
 Soaring prices of natural rubber may be spurring tire
makers to increase the use of synthetic rubber as an alternative,
Tomizawa said. Isoprene rubber can be used, although “there is
a limitation on substitution,” he said.  
 Sales of passenger car tires in China will rise as demand
for new models is growing, he said. Volkswagen AG, the biggest
foreign carmaker in China, will invest 4.4 billion euros ($5.9
billion) in plants and new models by 2012, while Nissan Motor Co.
aims to boost capacity almost 70 percent, the companies said on
April 23 at the Beijing Auto Show.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A worker polishes a tire in the Bridgestone Corp. booth at the Beijing Auto Show in Beijing on April 24, 2010. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
