-- British Airways Sales Chief, Ex-Managers Stand Trial in Price-Fixing Case
-- James Lumley
-- 2010-04-26T11:33:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/british-airways-sales-chief-ex-managers-stand-trial-in-price-fixing-case.html

          
          
             Three former British Airways Plc
executives and one current manager are facing claims they
schemed with Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. to fix fuel surcharges
on trans-Atlantic flights, at a criminal trial that began today.  
 Andrew Crawley, British Airways’ head of sales; Martin
George, a former board member; Iain Burns, ex-head of
communications; and Alan Burnett, former head of U.K. and
Ireland sales, appeared today for the trial in Southwark Crown
Court in London before Judge Robert Owen.  
 “The crucial element of the offense to remember is
dishonesty,” Richard Latham, a prosecutor for the OFT, told the
court. “Every purchaser is a victim.”  
 In July 2009, the four men pleaded not guilty to criminal
antitrust violations brought by the Office of Fair Trading, a
U.K. antitrust regulator. The competition watchdog accused the
men of colluding with Virgin to fix the price of fuel surcharges
on passenger flights from July 2004 through April 2006.  
 The men each face as many as five years in prison if found
guilty of operating a cartel with the competing carrier.  
 The regulator’s lawyer told the jury that British Airways
directors and senior managers attended mandatory training in
2004 about competition law changes, including the introduction
of criminal penalties. He showed them the original presentation
from the session, which warned that “hardcore cartels are like
theft.”  
 No Virgin Charges  
 No one from Virgin, based in Crawley, England, was charged
in the case. Virgin Chief Executive Stephen Ridgway and some
former Virgin executives will be important witnesses in the
case, Latham told the court.  
 Giving immunity to Virgin was a “necessary evil,” he said.
“Bringing a cartel to an end outweighs prosecuting all parties
involved.”  
 The OFT won its first convictions for members of a cartel
in 2008, when three men were sentenced to as long as three years
in jail for conspiring to fix the price of hoses used in the oil
industry. The U.K. criminalized antitrust violations in 2002.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
James Lumley in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        