-- Brown Placing Third May Win Most Seats as Undecided Hold Key
-- Robert Hutton
-- 2010-04-26T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/brown-s-third-place-vote-may-give-him-most-seats-as-cameron-woos-undecided.html

          
          
             British Prime Minister Gordon Brown
ran third behind the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats in
three polls late yesterday by margins that, because of uneven 
vote distribution, may still give his Labour Party the most 
seats in Parliament after next week’s election.  
 The wrinkle is the record number of undecided voters, which
has created what Brown calls a “wide open” election.
Conservative leader David Cameron is stepping up his campaign to
attract those who, disillusioned after 13 years of Labour
government, could make him prime minister.  
 “People have normally made up their minds a couple of
weeks before this stage,” said Anthony Wells of pollster YouGov
Plc. “If we’ve had one big switch during the campaign, anything
could happen.”  
 Last night’s polls were the latest to suggest the May 6
election may produce the first Parliament since 1974 in which no
party wins a majority. Support for the Liberal Democrats has 
surged since their leader, Nick Clegg, 43, was judged the winner 
of the first televised debate in polls following the April 15
event. Labour was third in 24 of the last 30 polls. If that 
result is borne out in next week’s voting, it would be the 
worst result for the party since 1918.  
 The Conservatives will tonight air a television spot
telling those who want change that voting for any other party
might keep Brown, 59, in office at the head of a coalition 
government with the Liberal Democrats.  
 Wavering Voters  
 While support for the Liberal Democrats has jumped about 10
percentage points since the debate, a YouGov poll completed
April 23 found 27 percent of their supporters would consider
switching. That compared with 17 percent of those who back the
Conservatives and 15 percent for Labour.  
 Cameron yesterday began targeting districts held by Labour
that the Conservatives had previously viewed as not winnable.
That was an acknowledgement that they might now be unable to
seize control of about 20 Liberal Democrat-held seats they need
to win to gain a House of Commons majority.  
 “We have extended our battleground,” Cameron, 43, said as
he headed to the southern coastal city of Southampton.  
 A daily ComRes Ltd. opinion poll published last night found
32 percent of respondents supporting the Conservatives, with 31
percent backing Clegg’s party and 28 percent for Labour.  
 Translated into seats in the House of Commons, that would
give Labour 268 seats, 58 short of a majority, the Conservatives
238 and the Liberal Democrats 112, according to ComRes, whose  
poll was based on 1,003 telephone calls with voters on April 24. 
No <a href="blpnews:linkid=FFVQ6967TOA1">margin of error was given.  
 Conservatives’ Support  
 The ComRes numbers are in line with an ICM poll for the
Guardian and a YouGov poll for The Sun. ICM showed support for
the Conservatives at 33 percent, with the Liberal Democrats at
30 percent and Labour at 28 percent. YouGov had Cameron’s party
at 33 percent, 4 points ahead of the Liberal Democrats and 5
points ahead of Labour.  
 “In polling terms, he’s dead in the water,” ComRes
Chairman Andrew Hawkins said of Brown. “The only asset
they’ve got is the electoral mathematics. They could easily
become the largest party on a very small share of the vote.”  
 An outcome in which Brown loses the popular vote and wins
the most seats -- and the first crack at forming a government --
would push an overhaul of the voting system to the top of the
post-election agenda just as investors and credit-rating
companies seek swift action to reduce the U.K.’s mounting debt.  
 Vulnerable Pound  
 The pound has declined 4.3 percent this year against the
dollar. It would be vulnerable to sharper declines should
political wrangling detract from action to bolster the economy
and cut the budget deficit, said Mike Turner, head of strategy
at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc in Edinburgh.  
 “The fear is you don’t get any clarity, immediately
anyway, and it still hits sterling,” said Turner.  
 Clegg said April 25 it would be “preposterous” for Brown
to stay on if Labour comes in third.  
 “It’s the sort of thing that’s so absurd it would lead to
change,” said Bill Dinning, head of strategy at Aegon Asset
Management in Edinburgh. “One of the effects is electoral
reform is on the agenda.”  
 Each of the three main parties is advocating some sort of
electoral change, and the tighter the result, the more such
debate will dominate the post-election agenda, according to
Nicola McEwen, a politics lecturer at the University of
Edinburgh.  
 ‘Weakness of the System’  
 “It would show that people wanted to kick the government
out, so the weakness of the system will be exposed,” she said.
“There would have to be a referendum on political reform.”  
 In each of the 650 electoral districts, voters cast their
ballots for a single member of Parliament, and the winner is the
one with the most support. The so-called first-past-the-post
system doesn’t necessarily mean the party with the biggest
proportion of the national vote comes away with the most seats
in London’s Westminster parliament. That’s complicated further
when another party is added to the mix.  
 “It’s a third party entering a system designed for a two-
party world like in the U.S.,” said Charles Pattie, a geography
professor at the University of Sheffield. “You could have all
three parties tied on about 30 percent and Labour just about
reaching the winning post. It’s quirky and weird.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     British Prime Minister Gordon Brown speaks to nurses and health workers at the Royal College of Nursing in Southampton, on April 26, 2010. Photographer: Dan Kitwood/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
