-- Bundesbank President Weber Says There is No `Credibility' Issue With Euro
-- Courtney Schlisserman
-- 2010-04-26T20:44:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/bundesbank-president-weber-says-there-is-no-credibility-issue-with-euro.html

          
          
             Bundesbank President Axel Weber
said the euro doesn’t have a “credibility” issue and called
Greece’s fiscal crisis a “special problem” that European
nations are working to address.  
 “There is no such risk” that the euro will collapse,
Weber, a member of the European Central Bank’s Governing
Council, said in an interview today with CNBC.  
 “The euro is viewed as a strong currency,” he said. “The
single monetary policy for the euro area is a credible monetary
policy. We have been able for 10 years to deliver price
stability.”  
 Weber also said talks between Greece, the European Union
and the International Monetary Fund for emergency funding should
be “completed soon,” possibly this week. It is a “totally
unrealistic scenario” that Greece would be evicted from the EU.  
 Earlier today, the euro dropped against all of its major
counterparts on concern the EU-led 45 billion euro ($60 billion)
aid package for Greece won’t prevent the deficit crisis from
spreading.  
 Weber downplayed suggestions that countries such as Spain
and Portugal may be next to undergo a debt crisis.  
 “They’re in a totally different fiscal space to start from
than Greece has been in the recent months,” he said. “Greece
is a special problem and the union is dealing with this
problem.”  
 ‘Patchy’ Recovery  
 Weber said the global economy needs new regulations for the
financial system, with higher capital cushions, better liquidity
rules and ways to resolve large firms that fail. He predicted a
“patchy” and “muted” economic recovery “that will be
stretched out over time.”  
 “We’re bouncing back at different speeds,” Weber said.
Emerging markets in Asia and Latin America are near “pre-crisis
growth levels” and the U.S. is “on the verge of a self-
sustaining recovery.”  
 Europe and Japan are “lagging somewhat behind,” he said.
The euro area’s growth in the second quarter “in my view will
be much stronger than the previous quarter’s,” Weber said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Courtney Schlisserman in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        