-- Buy Taiwan Dollar Forwards on Yuan Prospects, Standard Chartered Advises
-- Patricia Lui
-- 2010-04-26T05:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/buy-taiwan-dollar-forwards-on-yuan-prospects-standard-chartered-advises.html

          
          
             Investors should buy the Taiwan
dollar using forwards contracts due in six months to profit as
forecast yuan gains and a trade accord with China spur demand
for the island’s currency, according to Standard Chartered Plc.  
 The trade, first recommended on April 20, should be exited
in the event that the Taiwan dollar posts a daily close weaker
than NT$31.80 versus the greenback, the U.K. lender said in a
research note published today. It forecast the currency, which
has gained 3.5 percent in the past six months, will strengthen
4.4 percent to NT$30 by the end of October.  
 “The economy is in recovery and the next two months may
bring two key events that could be very positive for the Taiwan
dollar; the de-pegging of the dollar-yuan and trade
liberalization between Taiwan and the mainland,” the note read.  
 Taiwan’s dollar traded at NT$31.31 as of 12:49 p.m. in
Taipei, 0.5 percent stronger than at the end of last week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The six-month offshore
non-deliverable forward traded at NT$30.68, reflecting bets the
currency will gain 2.1 percent.  
 Forwards are agreements in which assets are bought and sold
at current prices for settlement at a later specified time and
date. Non-deliverable forwards are settled in dollars rather
than the underlying asset.  
 China Trade  
 China may allow the yuan to appreciate by June 30 to curb
inflation, while avoiding a one-time jump in value that might
hurt exporters, based on a Bloomberg survey of analysts
published April 13. The country is the biggest buyer of Taiwan’s
exports and a stronger currency may spur demand for goods
shipped from the island.  
 Shipments to China jumped 82 percent from a year earlier in
March, driving a 50 percent increase in Taiwan’s overall exports,
official figures show.  
 Trade across the Taiwan Strait may pick up as the two
governments discuss an Economic Cooperation Framework Agreement
to reduce tariffs and boost cross-border investment. Taiwan
President Ma Ying-jeou yesterday reiterated his goal of signing
the accord in the first half of this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Lui at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        