-- McAfee Calls Surge on Speculation Hewlett-Packard May Buy Software Maker
-- Jeff Kearns
-- 2010-04-26T20:59:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/mcafee-calls-surge-on-speculation-hewlett-packard-may-buy-software-maker.html

          
          
             Trading of bullish McAfee Inc.
options jumped to the highest in almost a decade after Friedman
Billings Ramsey & Co. said the second-biggest maker of security
software may be acquired by Hewlett-Packard Co. The shares
gained the most in more than two months.  
 “The addition of McAfee would significantly strengthen the
company’s presence in security and develop a competitive edge”
on rival Cisco Systems Inc., analysts David Hilal and Daniel
Ives said of Hewlett-Packard in a report today. “We expect M&A
activity to accelerate” in the software industry in 2010 and
2011.  
 More than 31,500 call options to buy the stock changed
hands as of 4 p.m. New York time, 81 times the four-week average
and 10 times the level for puts to sell. The shares gained 3.6
percent to $41.57. The most-active contracts were June $45
calls, which accounted for almost a third of call volume.  
 McAfee doesn’t comment on rumor or speculation, said
Michael Busselen, a spokesman for the Santa Clara, California-
based company. Mylene Mangalindan, a spokeswoman for Palo Alto,
California-based Hewlett-Packard, declined to comment.  
 Ives has rated McAfee at “outperform” since Sept. 25. The
stock has fallen 2.5 percent since then.  
 May $45 calls changed hands 9,500 times and were the
second-most active. McAfee hasn’t closed above that price since
October. Next month’s options expire May 21. June’s expiration
is on the 18th.  
 “McAfee is trading on rumors that Hewlett Packard is
looking to acquire the company,” said Joe Kunkle, founder of
OptionsHawk.com, a Boston-based provider of options market data
and analytics. “These rarely turn out to have truth but this
one has some bullishness to it because traders are buying calls
out in June when May still has four weeks of trading left.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        