-- Cameron Targets More Labour Districts as Conservatives Woo Clegg Backers
-- Robert Hutton
-- 2010-04-26T15:36:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/cameron-targets-labour-districts-as-conservatives-try-to-woo-clegg-backers.html

          
          
             Conservative David Cameron switched
the focus of his election campaign to districts held by Gordon
Brown’s Labour Party, reflecting the way a surge in support for
the Liberal Democrats has made it harder for him to win power.  
 The Liberal Democrats’ poll ratings have climbed since
their leader, Nick Clegg, won the first televised leaders’
debate on April 15. Of 27 surveys completed since then, 21 have
put his party in second place, ahead of Labour, and pointing to
a House of Commons where no bloc has a majority. That makes it
more difficult for the Conservatives to win Liberal Democrat
seats they had previously been targeting.  
 “We are aiming for a majority government, we believe
that’s doable,” Cameron told a news conference in London today
before he set off to campaign in Southampton on England’s south
coast. “That’s why we have extended our battleground.” He
appealed to people thinking about voting for the Liberal
Democrats to reconsider, saying that only a single-party
Conservative administration could deliver real change.  
 The Conservatives must gain 117 districts in the May 6
elections to win a majority in the House of Commons. Both
Cameron and Brown are making trips today to Southampton, where
Labour holds two seats the Conservatives had previously
considered too hard to win. Cameron said that with Clegg’s rise
taking support from Brown, such district were now winnable.  
 At least 20 of the seats the Conservatives were previously
aiming to take are held by the Liberal Democrats.  
 10-Point Lead  
 The electoral system means Labour might still win the
largest number of seats in Parliament even if it finishes third
in vote share. The uneven distribution of party support across
the country means the Conservatives need at least a 10
percentage-point lead over Labour to be sure of gaining a
majority of seats.  
 A YouGov Plc poll of 1,466 people in today’s Sun newspaper
put the Conservatives at 34 percent, the Liberal Democrats at 30
percent and Labour at 28 percent. No margin of error was given.
    “Whether you’ve been a Lib Dem voter or a Labour voter or a
Green voter, if you care about the environment, if you want
action to improve your quality of life, if you care about civil
liberties, if you care about people power, if you want a clean
break from the past -- vote Conservative,” Cameron said.  
 ‘Hung Parliament Party’  
 A hung Parliament may roil markets because a divided
government would be too weak to fix Britain’s finances, some
economists say. The pound slumped 1 percent in the two days
after the first debate. Sterling strengthened today for the
first time in three days. It gained 0.6 percent to $1.5466 at
4:16 p.m. in London after a report showed U.K. house prices
increased for a ninth consecutive month.  
 The Conservatives today showed a party election broadcast
that depicts the fictional “Hung Parliament Party,” which
promises to do deals behind closed doors and potential damage to
the economy.  
 “The choice in this election is between a hung Parliament
and a Conservative majority,” Conservative Treasury spokesman
George Osborne told a news conference in London. “There are
still many people who hope and expect there is going to be a
Conservative majority, and I think the markets have always to a
degree priced that in and I think we can deliver that.”  
 ‘Clear Mandate’  
 A survey of 300 businesses by the British Chambers of
Commerce published today found 65 percent “concerned” or
“very concerned” at the prospect of a hung Parliament.
“Instinctively, companies prefer a clear mandate to lead and
govern,” BCC Director General David Frost said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 Yesterday Clegg said it would be “preposterous” for
Gordon Brown to stay on as prime minister if Labour comes in
third in the popular vote.  
 Asked about other possible partners in an interview with
BBC News in Edinburgh today, Clegg said, “I will work with
anyone who is prepared to work with me to introduce the big
reforms.”  
 Clegg said yesterday the recent rise in support for his
party meant changes to the voting system would be
“unavoidable” after the election.  
 Electoral-system changes are vital to the Liberal Democrats
because the first-past-the-post rule hurts smaller parties. In
2005, Liberal Democrats won 22 percent of the vote but fewer
than 10 percent of the seats. If there is a hung Parliament,
Clegg’s party may be able to demand change as a price for its
support.  
 Today Cameron didn’t rule out doing a deal with Clegg on
electoral reform, simply saying instead that he supports the
system as it stands.  
 “I don’t support changing our electoral system, I think it
works for Britain,” Cameron said.  
 Labour has stepped up its attacks on the Liberal Democrats
in recent days. “My sense is that Nick Clegg has somewhat
overreached himself,” Labour’s election coordinator, Douglas
Alexander, told reporters in London today. Clegg is
“intoxicated by the publicity.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        