-- Canada's Dollar Is Near Parity as Traders Await Clarity on Greece Bailout
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-04-26T20:16:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/canadian-currency-trades-near-22-month-high-on-oil-rate-boost-prospects.html

          
          
             Canada’s dollar was within a cent
of parity with its U.S. counterpart as traders awaited a signal
that a bailout of Greece would succeed in preventing a fiscal
crisis from spreading, giving a boost to higher-yielding assets.  
 “We need some more certainty regarding Greece,” said
Matthew Strauss, senior currency strategist in Toronto at Royal
Bank of Canada, the nation’s biggest lender. “That could see
dollar-Canada breaking below recent ranges,” he said, referring
to the U.S. dollar heading lower than the Canadian.  
 The loonie, as Canada’s is sometimes known, reached a one-
for-one basis with the greenback on April 6 for the first time
since July 2008. It weakened as much as 0.6 percent on April 23
after inflation failed to keep pace with economists’ forecasts
and retail sales advanced less than anticipated.  
 Canada’s dollar depreciated 0.2 percent to C$1.0012 per
U.S. dollar at 4:15 p.m. in Toronto, from 99.91 cents on April
23. It gained as much as 0.2 percent today. The currency touched
91.31 cents per greenback on April 21, the strongest level since
June 2008.  
 Clarity on the Greece bailout could lead to a “short-term
rally in European and global equity markets,” which would spill
over into a bid for commodity currencies, Strauss said.  
 The loonie slipped as crude oil for June delivery fell as
much as 1.6 percent after earlier gaining 0.6 percent to $85.63
a barrel in New York, the highest level since April 16. It last
traded at $83.95 a barrel, down 1.4 percent. The MSCI World
Index gained 0.3 percent, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
fell 0.4 percent.  
 The loonie tends to rise and fall with equities and
commodities.  
 ‘Very Tight’ Range  
 “The trading range has been very tight, and it will take a
close outside to trigger a bit of activity,” said Christian
Dupont, a trader at Desjardins Group in Montreal. He said in a
note to clients the loonie has opened and closed within a 73-
point band -- between 99.84 Canadian cent and C$1.0057 -- for 11
of the past 14 trading days.  
 Dupont said he’s waiting for comments by Bank of Canada
Governor Mark Carney tomorrow in the House of Commons, the
Federal Open Market Committee interest rate decision on the next
day, gross domestic product reports in both the U.S. and Canada
on April 30 and “any new development in Greece.”  
 Greece Rescue  
 The loonie gained against the euro after last week reaching
the highest against the 16-nation currency in almost nine years
on speculation that a European Union-led rescue plan for Greece
may face hurdles in its implementation. It appreciated as much
as 0.6 percent to C$1.3290 per euro today, from C$1.3373 on
April 23, when it touched $1.3239, the strongest level since
July 2001.  
 “The dominant theme is Greece,” said Marc Chandler,
global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman &
Co. in New York. “The dollar bloc is generally firm.” He said
the Canadian dollar is the worst performer among dollar-bloc
currencies, which include the Australian and New Zealand
dollars, after inflation data last week was less than forecast.  
 Canada’s currency advanced last week after Finance Minister
Jim Flaherty said China designated the nation as one where its
financial institutions can make investments. The designation may
lead to as much as $8 billion of capital flowing into Canada, he
said. Standard & Poor’s Rating Services on April 23 affirmed its
AAA long-term and A-1+ short-term sovereign ratings on Canada
with a stable outlook.  
 China, S&P  
 The China news and the S&P affirmation will contribute to
continued gains in the Canadian dollar, said Shaun Osborne,
chief currency strategist in Toronto at Toronto Dominion Bank,
Canada’s second-largest lender.  
 Government bonds rose today, pushing down the 5-year note’s
yield two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.09
percent. The price of the 2.5 percent security maturing in June
2015 gained 11 cents to C$97.25.  
 Canada’s government bonds have returned 0.6 percent to
investors this year, according to a Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index.  
 The nation’s consumer price index unexpectedly gained more
slowly in March to an annual pace of 1.4 percent, from 1.6
percent the previous month, a Statistics Canada report showed on
April 23. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey was for the
figure to remain unchanged. Sales at retailers increased 0.5
percent in February, another report showed. The median forecast
in a separate Bloomberg survey was for an increase of 1 percent.  
 Even with the disappointing retail sales and inflation
data, the prospect of higher interest rates “means the Canadian
dollar should continue to improve,” Toronto Dominion’s Osborne
said. He predicts the currency will reach 98 cents per U.S.
dollar by the end of June and 95 cents by the end of the third
quarter.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        