-- Caterpillar Profit Tops Estimates as Construction Gains
-- Shruti Date Singh
-- 2010-04-26T17:37:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/caterpillar-posts-first-earnings-increase-in-seven-quarters-amid-recovery.html

          
          
             Caterpillar Inc., the world’s
largest maker of construction equipment, posted its first
earnings increase in seven quarters, exceeding analysts’
estimates, as the global economy began to improve.  
 First-quarter profit excluding costs for a new health-care
law was 50 cents a share, beating the average estimate of 39
cents a share in a Bloomberg survey of 21 analysts. Caterpillar
stock rose the most since mid-February.  
 Full-year sales, profit and economic growth will be higher
than executives previously predicted, Peoria, Illinois-based
Caterpillar said today in a statement. Lower costs, aided by the
elimination of about 37,000 workers and contractors from late
2008 to the end of 2009, helped compensate for a drop in
machinery and engine sales.  
 “For Caterpillar, there is clearly a cyclical recovery
going on,” Joel Levington, a managing director of corporate
credit for Brookfield Investment Management Inc. in New York,
said in an interview after the results. “The key for
Caterpillar is operational execution, which has been an area of
challenge for this company over the past several years.”  
 Net income was $233 million, or 36 cents a share, after a
loss of $112 million, or 19 cents, a year earlier. The profit
was its first year-over-year increase since the second quarter
of 2008, before the U.S. financial crisis.  
 Caterpillar rose $3.16, or 4.6 percent, to $71.94 at 1:35
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Earlier the
shares rose 5.9 percent, the most in intraday trading since Feb.
9. The shares climbed 21 percent this year before today.  
 2010 Forecasts  
 Full-year profit will be about $2.50 to $3.25 a share,
compared with a January forecast of about $2.50, Caterpillar
said today. Analysts, on average, estimated $2.66 a share.  
 Sales fell to $8.24 billion, an 11 percent decline from the
year-earlier quarter, before the full brunt of the financial
crisis and global recession had shrunk revenue. Caterpillar
today said sales in 2010 will rise to $38 billion to $42
billion, exceeding analysts’ average estimate of $36.6 billion.  
 Currency boosted sales by $142 million, primarily due to a
stronger euro and Brazilian real, the statement said.  
 “Capital markets are in much better shape than last year,
demand for our products is rising, and we’re seeing it in most
geographic regions,” Mike DeWalt, director of investor
relations, said on a conference call with analysts and investors
today. “We’re working with our suppliers and within our own
factories to ramp up production, and in some cases to accelerate
planned capacity additions.”  
 Economic Outlook  
  Caterpillar raised its prediction for world economic
growth in 2010 to 3.5 percent, from 3 percent in its previous
forecast. The U.S. may expand 3.5 percent while developing
economies may grow more than 6 percent, the company said.  
 “Economic conditions are definitely improving, particularly
in the world’s developing economies,” Chief Executive Officer
James Owens said in the statement. “Industry activity and
orders are significantly higher than last year and are at record
levels in some areas.”  
 First-quarter machinery sales fell about 1.5 percent to
$5.26 billion, while engine sales dropped 28 percent to $2.29
billion. Financial products revenue declined 3.9 percent to $687
million. Total sales fell in all regions except for Latin
America, which was unchanged, and Asia-Pacific, which gained 20
percent to $2.26 billion.  
 Order Activity  
 Owens said the company is seeing increased order activity
related to mining and energy. Sales of aftermarket service
parts, which bottomed in the second quarter of 2009, improved in
all regions, particularly in Asia and Latin America.  
 The first quarter may have been too early to reflect the
uptick in orders, Jeff Windau, an analyst for Edward Jones & Co.
in St. Louis, said in an interview. “It just takes time to fill
the channels and provide the products.”  
 After cuts in 2009, dealers held new machine inventories
about flat with year-end 2009 and reduced engine inventories
about $200 million, the company said.  
 The company’s machines include excavators and bulldozers
used in construction, haul trucks used at quarries and mines,
and graders and loaders used to build highways and roads. The
company also makes turbines used to generate electricity and
engines that power ocean-going ships.  
 Caterpillar cut about 19,000 full-time jobs and about
18,000 part-time and temporary workers from late 2008 through
the end of last year as demand plunged amid the recession.  
 Worldwide employment was 95,290 at the end of the first
quarter, a drop of about 7,800 from the year-earlier period, the
company said today. Caterpillar said today it has added back
about 1,500 jobs since year-end because of higher production
volume, including 600 in the U.S.  
 The 1,500 jobs added since year-end mostly included people
called back from layoffs, including people recalled to support
exports, DeWalt said in an interview.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh at   ssingh28@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A file photo of a used Caterpillar Inc. excavator at the Gregory Poole Equipment Company dealership in Raleigh, North Carolina. Photographer: Jim R. Bounds/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Jim Owens, chief executive officer of Caterpillar Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman, Julie Hyman and Zahra Burton about reasons behind the company's raised forecasts, the financing environment and hiring plans for 2010.
     Caterpillar, the world's largest maker of construction equipment, posted its first earnings increase in seven quarters, exceeding analysts’ estimates, as the global economy began to improve. The company said full-year sales, profit and economic growth will be higher than executives previously predicted. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
