-- Chanos Wrong on China Property Slump, Fan Gang Says
-- Susan Li
-- 2010-04-27T01:35:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/chanos-wrong-on-china-property-slump-former-central-bank-adviser-fan-says.html

          
          
             Hedge fund manager James Chanos is
overly pessimistic about China’s property market because he
underestimates government efforts to avoid a bubble, according
to Fan Gang, a former People’s Bank of China adviser.  
 Chanos said this month that China is on a “treadmill to
hell” because it’s hooked on property development for driving
growth. “That statement is under the assumption that Chinese
are stupid, Chinese will not do anything to deal with that,”
Fan said in a Bloomberg Television interview recorded in Hong
Kong yesterday.  
 While some cities show signs of excessive price gains,
government efforts are stabilizing the market before the
emergence of any “big” bubble such as those seen previously in
the U.S. and Japan, Fan said. Officials rolled out the “most
draconian” measures yet to cool prices after record gains in
March, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  
 In an e-mail, Chanos, the president of hedge-fund firm
Kynikos Associates Ltd., declined to respond to Fan’s comments.  
 Last month’s data for 70 major cities showed an 11.7
percent gain in residential and commercial real-estate prices
from a year earlier. In the southern city of Haikou, on the
island of Hainan, prices jumped 54 percent.  
 Measures to cool the market have included a ban on loans
for third-home purchases and raising mortgage rates and down-
payment requirements for second-home purchases.  
 Clampdown  
 The government is countering asset-bubble risks because the
issue is social and political as well as financial, said Fan,
who’s director of the National Institute of Economic Research
in Beijing. He is also a former academic member of the central
bank’s monetary policy committee.  
 Fan’s comments contrast with Chanos saying this month that
the nation has “a world class, if not the world class, property
bubble,” primarily from the construction of high-rise buildings.  
 China is in the throes of “a vast property mania,” with
expectations for a currency revaluation helping to fuel a market
bubble, according to Andy Xie, an independent economist in
Shanghai. Xie was formerly Morgan Stanley’s chief economist
for the Asia-Pacific region.  
 Fan said China will adopt a more flexible currency regime
“sooner or later,” when the global economy stabilizes, after
keeping the yuan pegged at about 6.83 per dollar from July 2008
as a crisis measure. “I don’t know when,” he added.  
 He said he preferred gradual change, rather than a
“radical” move.  
 Currency Bets  
 Non-deliverable yuan forwards indicate the currency may
gain 3.3 percent against the dollar in the next 12 months. U.S.
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner fueled speculation that
China may let the yuan appreciate by postponing a report that
could label the nation a currency manipulator.  
 “It’s obviously important to the world” that the country
makes the shift, Geithner said at a press briefing on April 23,
after a meeting with finance chiefs from the Group of 20 nations
in Washington.  
 A more flexible Chinese currency could help to limit global
imbalances in spending and saving that contributed to the
financial crisis.  
 China’s government last month appointed three economists,
Zhou Qiren, Xia Bin and Li Daokui, to the central bank’s
monetary policy committee to replace Fan, formerly the sole
academic member.  
 -- With assistance from Momoe Ikeda-Chelminska, Timothy R. Homan.
Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Russell Ward.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       James "Jim" Chanos, of Kynikos Associates  
                       
                         
                           Jin Lee/Bloomberg 
                         
                         James "Jim" Chanos, founder and managing partner of Kynikos Associates, speaks during a television interview on the sidelines of a conference sponsored by the Roosevelt Institute in New York, on Mar. 3, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     James "Jim" Chanos, founder and managing partner of Kynikos Associates, speaks during a television interview on the sidelines of a conference sponsored by the Roosevelt Institute in New York, on Mar. 3, 2010. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 27 (Bloomberg) -- Fan Gang, a former People’s Bank of China adviser, talked yesterday with Bloomberg's Susan Li in Hong Kong about China's measures to cool property prices and the nation's currency policy.
     Fan said James Chanos is overly pessimistic about China’s property market because the hedge fund manager underestimates government efforts to avoid a bubble. Chanos said earlier this month that China is on a "treadmill to hell" because it’s hooked on property development for driving growth. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Fan Gang, former adviser to the People's Bank Of China  
                       
                         
                           Nelson Ching/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Fan Gang, seen here as adviser to the People's Bank Of China, attends the Boao Forum for Asia in Boao, Hainan province, on April 10, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Fan Gang, seen here as adviser to the People's Bank Of China, attends the Boao Forum for Asia in Boao, Hainan province, on April 10, 2010. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
