-- Charles River to Buy WuXi PharmaTech for $1.6 Billion
-- Zachary Mider
-- 2010-04-26T20:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/charles-river-said-to-agree-to-buy-wuxi-pharmatech-for-about-1-6-billion.html

          
          
             Charles River Laboratories
International Inc. agreed to buy WuXi PharmaTech (Cayman) Inc.
for about $1.6 billion to expand in China, where revenue from
drug-testing services is growing as much as 30 percent a year.  
 Charles River will pay $21.25 a share, comprising $11.25 in
cash and $10 in stock, for each WuXi American depositary share,
the companies said in a statement today. The offer is 28 percent
more than WuXi’s closing price of $16.57 in New York Stock
Exchange trading on April 23.  
 The deal would be the largest foreign takeover of a Chinese
company. It would give Charles River testing facilities in
Shanghai, Suzhou and Tianjin in China, where cheaper labor and
laboratory costs are luring the world’s biggest drugmakers in
search of new blockbuster medicines.  
 “This is a vote of confidence that China will be the main
location for drug R&D outsourcing in the future,” said Jinsong
Du, an analyst in Hong Kong at Credit Suisse Group AG. Charles
River would eliminate a potential competitor and gain a “very
large state-of-the-art animal-testing facility” by buying the
Chinese company, he said.  
 Earnings Miss Estimates  
 Charles River dropped $6.22, or 16 percent, to $33.55 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest
decline since November 2008. The shares are little changed this
year.  
 The company also reported first-quarter earnings today of
$17.4 million, or 26 cents a share, down 32 percent from the
previous year’s period. Adjusted for some items, profit was 45
cents a share, missing by two cents the average estimate of 12
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 “Unquestionably most of the international drug companies
intend to have major operations in China,” Charles River Chief
Executive Officer James Foster said today in a telephone
interview, citing lower costs and a large number of trained
scientists in the country. “It will certainly, in the next
three to five years, be a meaningful portion of our work.”  
 Charles River received a $1.25 billion credit-facility
commitment from JP Morgan Chase and Bank of America Merrill
Lynch, according to the statement.  
 The U.S. company had $182.6 million in cash and equivalents
as of December, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has
$634 million of debt due by 2013, the data show.  
 Significant Transaction  
 “This is a very significant transaction for China’s
health-care industry,” said Brian Gu, head of Greater China
corporate finance and mergers and acquisitions at JPMorgan in
Hong Kong. “2010 is shaping to be an active M&A year for China,
and health care is a sector we are starting to see significant
strategic and investor interest.”  
 The biggest announced takeover in China by an overseas
company was Diageo Plc’s 610 million pound ($942 million)
purchase of Sichuan Swellfun Co., one of China’s four premium
liquor makers, in February this year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  
 The market for contract research in China is growing as
much as 30 percent a year, compared with less than 10 percent
worldwide, Credit Suisse’s Du said.  
 Charles River would also gain easier access to animals
including monkeys than it has in the U.S., where there is
greater scrutiny of animal testing, he said.  
 Credit Suisse, JPMorgan  
 Credit Suisse and JPMorgan Securities Inc. are advising
WuXi and Charles River. The companies expect to complete the
transaction by year-end.  
 “Large animals -- non-human primates -- are increasingly
and principally sourced in China,” Foster said. “Some large
animal work will eventually go there, just because of the
proximity to the source and to cut down the expense of
shipments.”  
 New York-based Pfizer said in November it signed a
memorandum of understanding with the Wuhan National Bioindustry
Base Construction and Management Office to set up a research and
development center in Wuhan, China. Novartis AG, of Basel,
Switzerland, said Nov. 3 it will invest $1 billion over the next
five years to build China’s largest pharmaceutical research and
development institute.  
 Foster said Charles River may next look to India for
expansion, where it could consider moving into later stages of
clinical trial work.  
 ‘Secondary Market’  
 “We would do that as a secondary market,” he said. “The
extent to which we’d entertain making a more significant move in
clinical work is entirely dependent on client demand.”  
 The company will “be pleased with this for awhile,”
Foster said, speaking of its acquisition and presence in China.  
 Charles River was founded in 1847 by Henry Foster, seeking
to supply researchers with a new standard of laboratory animal
models, according to the company’s website. Foster bought
several thousand rat cages for $1,200 in Virginia and set up a
lab in a loft overlooking Boston’s Charles River. The company
moved to Wilmington in 1955 as the business expanded.  
 WuXi PharmaTech is the parent of WuXi AppTec Co. in China
and WuXi AppTec Inc. in the U.S., the company said on its
website. Besides China, it has facilities in Minnesota and
Atlanta, according to the website. Its customers include Pfizer,
Merck & Co., Novartis and AstraZeneca Plc.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Simeon Bennett in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A technician works in the high throughput purification laboratory at the WuXi PharmaTech facility in Wuxi, China, on April 15, 2008. Photographer: Ariana Lindquist  
                   
    


 
     
         
             Chart:  M&A Snapshot
         
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
