-- Chavez Seeks to Join Obama, Castro in Adding Twitter to His Media Arsenal
-- Daniel Cancel
-- 2010-04-26T20:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/chavez-seeks-to-join-obama-castro-in-adding-twitter-to-his-media-arsenal.html

          
          
             Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez,
who already writes a weekly newspaper column, created a radio
program and speaks for as many as seven hours every Sunday,
plans to add a Twitter Inc. account to his media arsenal.  
 “Comandante Chavez is going to open his Twitter account
soon to wage the battle online,” Diosdado Cabello, head of the
country’s telecommunications regulator, said today on state
television. “I’m sure he’ll break records for numbers of
followers.”  
 Chavez will join world leaders including U.S. President
Barack Obama (3.8 million followers), Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu (3,547 followers) and Chilean President
Sebastian Pinera (88,978 followers) in reaching out to
supporters and opponents alike via the social networking tool
that limits users to 140 characters per post.  
 Chavez, a former paratrooper who wants to convert Venezuela
into a socialist state, says his government is waging a media
war against conservative news organizations that vilify his
presidency and follow orders from the U.S. to overthrow his
administration. Chavez was praised last year by his mentor Fidel
Castro, who has a Twitter site organized by newspaper
Cubadebate.cu, for spending 1,536 hours over 10 years speaking
during his “Alo Presidente” show.  
 ‘Revolutionary Idea’  
 “The case of Hugo Chavez is exceptional in the history of
politics,” Castro wrote in a note published last year on the
Cubadebate.com website. “Others have gained fame through the
written press, radio and television, but never has a
revolutionary idea made use of a communications media with such
efficiency.”  
 The announcement comes after Venezuela’s opposition said
Chavez, 55, was trying to block social networking sites like
Facebook Inc. and Twitter last month after he called for an
investigation into a local news site for publishing false
information about the death of Cabello, who is also Public Works
and Housing Minister.  
 Chavez rejected the accusations and said that he would soon
be setting up his own website to publish news and participate in
debates.  
 “I’m going to have my online trench from the palace to
wage the battle,” he said on March 21. “I’ll provide
information and even respond to my enemies.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 14 (Bloomberg) -- Chris Sacca, managing director of Lowercase Capital and a former executive at Google Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Cris Valerio about Twitter Inc.'s plan to seek international advertising partners and revenue.
     Sacca also discusses Google's tool that lets users explore an archive of public posts on the Twitter site. Bloomberg's Carol Massar also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
