-- Chile's Sonda Rises Most in Four Months on Acquisition of Brazil's Telsinc
-- James Attwood
-- 2010-04-26T18:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/chile-s-sonda-rises-most-in-four-months-on-acquisition-of-brazil-s-telsinc.html

          
          
             Sonda SA, Chile’s largest
information technology provider, advanced the most in four
months after saying it’s buying a Brazilian company.  
 Sonda gained 1.4 percent to 817 pesos at 2:04 p.m. New York
time. Earlier it rose 2.3 percent, the steepest intraday rally
since Dec. 15. About nine million shares traded, more than 11
times the average of the past three months. The Ipsa index lost
0.1 percent to 3,831.79.  
 Sonda agreed to pay 66 million reais ($37.8 million) for
Brazilian information technology company Telsinc, the Santiago-
based company wrote in a regulatory filing dated April 24.
Telsinc, was founded in 1994 and provides communications,
virtualization and security services, and has business
agreements with companies such as Cisco Systems Inc. and VMware
Inc. It had revenue of 108 million reais last year, Sonda wrote.  
 “Given the company’s calling for inorganic growth and
record of profitable acquisitions, we consider it good news for
Sonda and expect to see a positive reaction in the stock
price,” BCI Corredor de Bolsa SA wrote in a note today.  
 Sonda plans to buy three or more companies this year in
Brazil, Mexico and Colombia for a total of about $200 million,
Santiago-based newspaper Diario Financiero reported on April 23,
citing the company’s chairman, Andres Navarro.  
 “We view this acquisition as positive,” Banco Santander
SA analysts Carlos Herrera and Francisco Errandonea wrote in a
note today to clients. “Sonda is delivering on its expansion
program and it’s increasing its footprint in Brazil, a market
that currently represents 34 percent of consolidated sales.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson Correa in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood in Santiago at 
 Jattwood3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        