-- Chinese Stimulus Plan Report Is Doubted as Economists See Overheating Risk
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-04-26T04:40:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/china-s-accelerating-growth-mean-wider-stimulus-unlikely-economists-say.html

          
          
             China’s rebound makes it unlikely
the government will duplicate the 4 trillion yuan ($586 billion)
stimulus adopted during the crisis, economists said after a
newspaper reported such a package may be enacted.  
 The “next” 4 trillion yuan of investment would be used to
develop nine new industries, China Business said today. Detailed
plans by the National Development and Reform Commission could be
released by August, the Beijing-based newspaper said, citing
“reliable information.” Calls to Li Pumin, an NDRC spokesman,
weren’t answered.  
 “The stimulus package was an emergency measure to save the
economy from a global economic crisis and we don’t see that
happening again,” said Li Wei, a Shanghai-based economist at
Standard Chartered Bank Plc. “Another 4 trillion yuan stimulus
is certainly not likely from the central government.”  
 Chinese policy makers have already raised banks’ reserve
requirements, set a target of a 22 percent reduction in new
loans this year, and cracked down on property speculation as the
world’s fastest-growing major economy surges back from the
financial crisis. Officials are also forecast to let the yuan
rise against the dollar to curb inflation pressures.  
 The report in China Business, a publication under the
Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, was headlined: “The next 4
trillion: the new industries plan to be out in August.”  
 The newspaper said the NDRC is yet to finalize the nine
industries that will get support and cited new energy as an
example of one that could be included. It didn’t say when the
money would be spent.  
 ‘Over-Stimulation’  
 The two-year stimulus plan announced in 2008 and
unprecedented bank lending helped the nation to post 11.9
percent growth in the first quarter of 2010 from a year earlier,
the fastest pace in almost three years.  
 “The risk for the economy now is over-stimulation,” said
Kevin Lai, a Hong Kong-based economist at Daiwa Capital Markets
Hong Kong Ltd. “Why would they launch another 4 trillion yuan
stimulus? It doesn’t make sense.”  
 The government has signaled caution in removing stimulus
policies, with the Ministry of Commerce arguing on April 22 that
another world economic slump remains possible. Central bank
Governor Zhou Xiaochuan reaffirmed a “moderately loose”
monetary policy in a statement at an International Monetary Fund
meeting on April 24, citing global “uncertainties.”  
 Dariusz Kowalczyk, chief investment strategist at SJS
Markets Ltd. in Hong Kong, said that while he doesn’t know
whether today’s report is accurate, the Chinese economy is so
dependent on stimulus that more measures are likely to be
announced this year.  
 He estimates that growth of about 8.8 percent this year
will slow to less than half that pace in 2011 unless the
government takes further action.  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        