-- Citigroup Chief Pandit Says Economy Will `Likely' Avoid Second Recession
-- Bradley Keoun
-- 2010-04-26T18:20:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/citigroup-s-pandit-sees-u-s-economy-likely-avoiding-a-second-recession.html

          
          
             Citigroup Inc. Chief Executive
Officer Vikram Pandit, who runs the third-biggest U.S. bank,
said the economy may rebound without “slipping backward” into
another recession.  
 “There are still some of us who believe there could be a
double-dip,” Pandit said today in a speech at a New York
conference to discuss the economic impact of new financial
regulations. “I think we are likely to avoid slipping
backward.”  
 Citigroup reported a $4.4 billion quarterly profit last
week, its first since 2007, as the economic rebound curbed
consumer loan losses and bolstered trading profit. The New York-
based bank had to get a $45 billion bailout in late 2008 after
plunging home prices and borrower defaults led to record losses.  
 The bank repaid $20 billion of its bailout in December. The
rest was converted into a 27 percent U.S. stake, which the
government plans to start selling, according to a registration
statement filed today.  
 Pandit, 53, said economic growth may come from “continued
support and funding of education and research” and policies
making it easier for companies to tap foreign markets.  
 “The rise of diversified and strong consumer bases around
the world will have multinationals and global institutions think
about how to capitalize on these new consumer bases,” Pandit
said. This will benefit Citigroup, which has operations in more
than 100 countries, he said.  
 New energy policies and investments in infrastructure such
as the energy grid are the third and fourth pillars for
restoring economic growth, Pandit said. No. 5 was restoring
“confidence in financial markets,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        