-- Cognis Posts First-Quarter Profit as Sales Rise, Sees Improvement in 2010
-- Richard Weiss
-- 2010-04-26T09:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/cognis-posts-first-quarter-profit-as-sales-rise-sees-improvement-in-2010.html

          
          
             Cognis GmbH, the German specialty
chemicals company that is drawing interest from BASF SE,
reported a first-quarter profit as sales climbed.  
 Net income was 47 million euros ($63 million) in the
quarter ended March 31, after a loss of 33 million euros a year
earlier, as sales rose 11 percent to 728 million euros.  
 “We have had an excellent start in 2010,” Chief
Executive Officer Antonio Trius said in a statement. “We
expect to further improve our business performance in 2010 by
providing added value to the customer through our innovative
portfolio of green products.”  
 Cognis is drawing bidders with its ingredients for body
lotions and shampoos based on natural resources such as palm
kernels and coconut oil, as opposed to synthetic materials,
tapping demand for environmentally friendly products.  
 BASF, the world’s biggest chemical producer, is preparing
a bid for Cognis that may value the privately held chemical
maker at about 3 billion euros, two people with knowledge of
the situation told Bloomberg News earlier this month.  
 Cognis, owned by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Permira
Advisers Ltd., would help BASF Chief Executive Officer Juergen
Hambrecht reduce his company’s reliance on plastics and
chemicals that Middle East competitors produce more cheaply.  
 The former Henkel AG unit, sold to the buyout firms in
2001, is attracting bidders with its range of ingredients for
food and personal care chemicals that are more resistant to
economic cycles than those derived from oil and gas.  
 Cognis’s adjusted earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization rose 80 percent to 131 million
euros in the quarter, for adjusted Ebitda of 422 million euros
for the past 12 months.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        