-- Colombia's Plata Courts Opposition Liberals to Cement Canada Trade Pact
-- Theophilos Argitis
-- 2010-04-26T17:26:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/colombia-s-plata-courts-opposition-liberals-to-cement-canada-trade-pact.html

          
          
             Colombian Trade Minister Luis
Guillermo Plata is courting senior lawmakers from Canada’s main
opposition Liberal Party in a bid to cement their support for a
free-trade agreement and assure its passage in Parliament.  
 Plata, who is also scheduled to testify at a Parliamentary
committee tomorrow and meet with Trade Minister Peter van Loan,
will have dinner in Ottawa with Liberal lawmakers Scott Brison
and Bob Rae tonight, before meeting with Liberal leader Michael
Ignatieff tomorrow morning. He’ll dine tomorrow night with a
larger group of Liberal lawmakers.  
 “The Liberal Party has a better understanding now of the
situation going on in Colombia, but there are still some points
that they require clarity,” on Jaime Giron, Colombia’s
ambassador to Canada, said in a telephone interview.  
 Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s governing Conservatives
have made strengthening ties with Latin America a priority in an
effort to broaden markets for Canadian commodities and reduce
the country’s dependence on the U.S. economy. While Canada and
Colombia signed an agreement in 2008, it is still awaiting
approval by Canadian lawmakers.  
 Harper’s Conservatives lack a majority of seats in
Parliament and need the support of opposition lawmakers to pass
legislation. The other two parties -- the New Democratic Party
and Bloc Quebecois -- have been firmly opposed to the agreement.  
 Critics of trade with Colombia say President Alvaro Uribe
must improve the Latin American country’s human rights record
before any accord can be approved. Labor unions allege there’s a
history of unpunished violence against trade union organizers.  
 Yearly Assessments  
 Brison, the Liberal lawmaker responsible for trade issues,
and Rae, the lawmaker responsible for foreign affairs, began
talks with Plata last year on amending the free trade agreement
to include yearly assessments of human rights conditions. Brison
met Uribe earlier this year in Davos, Switzerland to win his
support for the proposal.  
 The Liberals will back an amended version of the agreement,
Brison said in a telephone interview, a move that has prompted
trade unions to accuse the main opposition party of changing its
position on the issue.  
 In 2008, two-way trade between Canada and Colombia was more
than C$1.3 billion ($1.3 billion), according to Canada’s trade
department. About 80 percent of Colombian exports are already
duty-free, according to figures provided by the trade
department, and include goods such as coal, coffee, banana, cut
flowers and sugars. Colombia imports wheat and other cereals,
newsprint, off-road trucks and machinery and electrical
equipment from Canada.  
 Plata is scheduled to testify in front of the Standing
Committee on International Trade tomorrow at 3:30 p.m.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        