-- Colombia Has Room to Hold Rates Amid Record Low Inflation, Zuluaga Says
-- Helen Murphy
-- 2010-04-26T22:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/colombia-has-room-to-hold-rates-amid-record-low-inflation-zuluaga-says.html

          
          
             Colombia’s central bank has room to
keep the benchmark interest rate unchanged as the economy
expands below its potential and inflation remains at a record
low, Finance Minister Oscar Ivan Zuluaga said.  
 “The outlook for stability in monetary policy is bright,”
Zuluaga, 51, said in an interview in Washington, where he’s
attending the International Monetary Fund’s spring meeting.
“The economy has the potential to expand 4 percent to 4.5
percent a year” without fueling inflation, he added, without
saying how long the rate should remain on hold.  
 South America’s fourth-biggest economy may expand 2.5
percent in 2010, according to government forecasts, after
emerging from its first recession in a decade. The IMF forecasts
a similar rate, while Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Morgan
Stanley see faster growth, at 3.4 percent and 4.1 percent
respectively. The economy expanded 0.4 percent in 2009.  
 Zuluaga and the bank’s six other board members are forecast
to keep the benchmark interest rate at a record low 3.5 percent
for a fifth straight month when they meet April 30, according to
all 10 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Tame inflation has
allowed policy makers to focus on cementing a recovery as
Colombians head to the polls next month to replace President
Alvaro Uribe, who has helped spur record foreign investment.  
 Annual inflation in March slowed for the second straight
month to 1.84 percent, the lowest rate in more than five
decades. The government targets inflation of 2 percent to 4
percent a year.  
 Bond Swap  
 The yield on the country’s benchmark 11 percent bonds due
July 2020 was unchanged at 8.275 percent, according to
Colombia’s stock exchange. The bond’s price was little changed
at 118.264 centavos per peso.  
 The peso strengthened to 1,947.80 per dollar from 1,951.05
per dollar on April 23. The peso has gained 4.9 percent this
year, the fourth-best performance against the dollar among 26
emerging market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  
 Zuluaga, who will stand down when the new president takes
office in August, said a peso-denominated international bond
sale and the domestic bond swap conducted in April show
Colombia’s “capacity to use all tools” to manage its debt. The
government has sufficient financing until year-end, he said.  
 Colombia last week swapped 3.5 trillion pesos ($1.8
billion) of bonds due between 2010 and 2015 to extend maturities
and close the biggest budget deficit in five years. The country
on April 7 sold about $800 million in peso-denominated bonds on
the international market.  
 ‘Clearest Sign’  
 “This is a very important deal, as it means total risk to
the investor, in the sense he is taking the risk for a country’s
currency,” said Zuluaga, who has a degree in economics from
Bogota’s Javeriana University. “It is the clearest sign of the
market’s perception, the confidence in a country and the
strength of its fundamentals.”  
 Colombia “paved the way” for other Latin American
countries to issue local currency-denominated debt, Zuluaga
said.  
 Chile announced on April 23 it plans its first global bond
sale in pesos, of about $500 million, as part of an effort to
raise $1.5 billion needed to repair damage from February’s
earthquake that killed more than 400 people.  
 “One of the regions that won with the crisis was, without
a doubt, Latin America,” Zuluaga said. The region “is showing
progress, in particular a group of countries that share the same
economic policy guidelines.”  
 Investment Grade  
 Zuluaga, who was president of steel company Acerias de
Colombia SA for a decade until 2001, said that he regrets he
won’t be in office to see Colombia obtain an investment grade
rating.  
 “The country needs to continue to fight,” Zuluaga said,
referring to the investment-grade rating. “It will certainly
take us more time to achieve it, but we will achieve it, sooner
than later. Colombia today is a very attractive country, with
substantial progress,” he added.  
 Colombia’s foreign debt is rated BB+, or one level below
investment grade, by Standard & Poor’s. Chile and Brazil are the
only two South American countries rated investment grade.  
 Colombians vote May 30 to replace Uribe, who attracted $50
billion in foreign investment since taking office in 2002 and
helped spur record growth. In the same period, the benchmark
IGBC stock index has risen more than 10-fold, while the peso
strengthened 37 percent against the dollar.  
 The country rose to 37th among 183 countries in the World
Bank’s 2010 “Ease of Doing Business” index, the highest
ranking among all Latin American and Caribbean countries except
St. Lucia. In 2009, it was ranked 49th.  
 Election Outlook  
 Former Bogota mayor Antanas Mockus has surged into a
statistical tie with former Defense Minister Juan Manuel Santos
in the race to succeed Uribe.  
 Mockus would win the election in a second-round runoff
scheduled for June 20 with 50 percent of the vote compared with
44 percent for Santos, according to a survey of 1,000 people by
Centro Nacional de Consultoria published April 22.  
 Zuluaga, who was a senator from 2002 to 2006, said he hopes
that whoever wins doesn’t make major changes to Uribe’s economic
policy.  
 “The country today is headed in the right direction,” he
said. “What’s left is to make improvements.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabiola Moura in Washington at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Murphy in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        