-- Commercial-Mortgage Bond Rally Ends After Seven Weeks as Spreads Widen
-- Sarah Mulholland
-- 2010-04-26T19:54:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/commercial-mortgage-backed-bond-rally-stalls-after-seven-straight-weeks.html

          
          
             Yields on bonds backed by
commercial-property mortgages rose relative to benchmarks
following seven straight weeks of tightening.  
 The gap, or spread, on top-ranked debt tied to commercial
real estate rose 0.14 percentage point to 2.33 percentage points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries last week, according to a
Barclays Plc index. Some top rated securities widened as much as
0.2 percentage point, the firm said April 23 in a report.  
 “The seven-week rally in super-senior spreads came to an
abrupt end,” New York-based analysts Aaron Bryson and Tee Yong
Chew wrote in the report. Heightened regulatory concerns and a
broader market pullback may have influenced selling, the
analysts said.  
 Investors have been buying securities backed by skyscraper,
hotel and shopping mall loans as demand for commercial real
estate investments dwarfs supply, the analysts said. Top-ranked
securities backed by commercial mortgages were trading at 2.52
percentage points more than Treasuries a month ago and 3.96
percentage points over benchmarks on Dec. 31, Barclays Capital
data show.  
 “One could argue that such a pullback and some degree of
profit-taking was simply overdue,” the analysts said.  
 The recent rally for some top-rated commercial-mortgage
backed securities came “too far too fast” and will probably
resume after a cooling period, Joshua Myers, a trader at New
York-based Hexagon Securities, said today in an interview.  
 “The cash rally has just paused,” he said.  
 Delinquencies Climb  
 Investors seeking higher returns amid a dearth of new bonds
looked past rising delinquencies to push prices higher for
commercial mortgage-backed securities. The delinquency rate for
loans bundled into commercial mortgage-backed debt more than
tripled to 6.74 percent in March from 1.91 percent a year
earlier and may top 10 percent in 2010, Deutsche Bank AG said
April 6 in a report.  
 A $309.7 million issue sold earlier this month was the only
commercial-mortgage bond offering this year, while only $3.04
billion of the bonds were sold last year. That compares with
$11.2 billion in 2008 and a record $232.4 billion in 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Over the long-term, spreads are likely to tighten further
and will break through the recent lows set last week, according
to a Bank of America Corp. report April 23.  
 Democrats in the U.S. Senate are seeking to advance
legislation, sought by President Barack Obama, to redesign rules
governing the financial services industry in response to the
worst economic crisis since the Great Depression.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        