-- Companies in the U.S. Plan to Boost Employment as Sales Rise, Survey Shows
-- Shobhana Chandra
-- 2010-04-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/companies-in-the-u-s-plan-to-boost-employment-as-sales-rise-survey-shows.html

          
          
             More U.S. companies plan to boost
payrolls as sales strengthen and the outlook for economic growth
brightens, a quarterly survey of economists showed.  
 The percentage of businesses planning on increasing staff
in the next six months exceeded the share projecting more
firings by 21 points, up from 6 points in January, according to
a survey by the National Association for Business Economics.
Demand rose for the third consecutive quarter, and more
respondents estimated the economy will grow faster than 3
percent this year.  
 “The U.S. recovery from the Great Recession continues,
with business conditions improving,” William Strauss, a senior
economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago who analyzed
the results, said in a statement. Rising demand indicates “a
better outlook for hiring,” he said.  
 About six out of every 10 respondents said sales increased
in the first quarter, up from 45 percent in NABE’s January
survey. A pickup in the labor market is needed to sustain the
economy’s recovery and help repair the damage from the worst
employment slump since the end of World War II.  
 Thirty-seven percent of those polled said they project an
increase in hiring within the next six months, up from 29
percent in January, NABE said. Sixteen percent said they
expected their firms to trim staff through attrition or major
layoffs, down from 23 percent in the prior survey.  
 The NABE survey, taken from March 25 to April 10, included
responses from 68 members of the business economists group.  
 Growth Outlook  
 Twenty-four percent of the respondents said they expect the
economy will expand faster than 3 percent in 2010, up from 14
percent who forecast that pace in January. In the latest survey,
fewer economists estimated growth will be less than 2 percent.  
 More firms, on net, said they increased capital spending in
the first quarter. Even so, investment expectations cooled after
improving for five consecutive quarters. Forty-one percent of
firms said they forecast capital spending will rise in the next
12 months, compared with 43 percent in the January survey.  
 Credit conditions remain a hurdle for business. Forty-seven
percent of the firms in the survey reported they were hurt by
stricter borrowing rules, up from 35 percent in January.  
 Inflation is likely to remain contained as fewer firms
expect to increase prices, the survey showed. The net reading
for firms planning to charge more over the next three months
dropped to 18 in April from 29 in January.  
 The group’s net figures subtract the share of respondents
reporting falling results from those reporting an increase.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- William Strauss, senior economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman about the results of the National Association for Business Economics' quarterly survey of economists.
      The percentage of businesses planning on increasing staff in the next six months exceeded the share projecting more firings by 21 points, up from 6 points in January. Twenty-four percent of the respondents estimated the economy will grow faster than 3 percent this year. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
