-- Copper Gains for a Second Day in New York on Greek Rescue Plan
-- Anna Stablum
-- 2010-04-26T17:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/copper-advances-as-greece-rescue-plan-nears-abating-euro-region-concerns.html

          
          
             Copper rose to a one-week high in  New York  and London after  Greece  moved toward securing a
financial rescue package, easing concerns of an economic
slowdown in the euro region.  
 Greece’s Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said
money will be available “rather soon” and that his country
wouldn’t restructure its debt. He was speaking to reporters in  Washington  yesterday as he negotiated a three-year loan plan
with the  International Monetary Fund  and European governments.
Copper has gained 73 percent in the past year as demand
prospects improved.  
 “We continue to remain supportive of the LME base metals-
complex for the balance of the second quarter and into the third
quarter,”  Michael Jansen , an analyst at JPMorgan Securities
Ltd. in London, said in a report today. “The sector is likely
to continue to be buffeted about by significant noise at the
macro level, especially as it relates to broader sovereign-risk
factors.”  
 Copper futures for July delivery gained 1.75 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $3.548 a pound on the Comex in New York, after
touching $3.5805, the highest price since April 16. On the  London  Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three months rose
$45, or 0.6 percent, to $7,795 ($3.535 a pound) a metric ton.  
 Prices rose for a second session on speculation that a
recovering global economy, led by China, will boost demand for
metals.  China  will keep its “relatively easy” monetary policy,
Central Bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said in a statement at an
IMF meeting, even as the country tightened real-estate financing
by requiring developers to submit fund-raising plans for review.  
 China Growth  
 China will continue with “stable and relatively rapid”
growth this year, while balancing “inflation expectations,”
Zhou said. The central government projects gross domestic
product will grow about 8 percent with an inflation rate of 3
percent this year, according to his statement.  
 The construction industry uses about one-quarter of all the
copper produced, according to the  Copper Development
Association .  
 In industrial metals, “a strong recovery in non-Chinese
demand, combined with steady (albeit weaker) Chinese demand
growth, will keep markets tight,” according to a report by
Macquarie Bank analysts led by Max Layton in London.  
 In the U.S., copper’s second-largest user, sales of new
homes soared 27 percent in March, climbing the most in 47 years
to a level that surpassed the highest forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Orders for goods meant to last at
least three years, excluding cars and aircraft, gained 2.8
percent, data showed on April 23.  
 Copper stockpiles tracked by the LME fell 0.2 percent to
506,125 tons. Bookings to remove metal from inventories jumped
38 percent to 30,675 tons, more than double a week ago.  
 Lead, nickel, tin and zinc also rose on the LME. Aluminum
declined.  
 To contact the reporter on the story:
Anna Stablum in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        