-- Copper Futures Climb on Prospects for Greek Aid Package, Signs of Recovery
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-04-26T07:37:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/copper-advances-for-second-day-on-prospect-of-emergency-greek-aid-package.html

          
          
             Copper climbed for a second day as
Greece moved toward securing an emergency aid package, reducing
investor concern that the nation’s fiscal crisis may derail the
European recovery while boosting prospects for a weaker dollar.  
 Copper for three-month delivery on the London Metal
Exchange advanced as much as 1.5 percent to $7,865 a metric ton,
the highest level since April 16. The contract has surged 81
percent over the past year as the global economy, led by China,
has emerged from the deepest recession since World War II.  
 European Central Bank officials dismissed speculation that
Greece’s budget crisis will spill over to other euro-region
states. Officials in China this weekend pledged to extend
“proactive” fiscal measures and maintain a “relatively easy”
monetary policy, saying the global recovery remains tentative.  
 “With Greece nearing getting aid, the dollar may return to
a weak trend, which is positive for metals,” Zhao Kai, an
analyst at Jinrui Futures Co., said from Shenzhen today. A
weaker dollar can spur demand for commodities denominated in the
U.S. currency.  
 Sales of new homes surged 27 percent in March in the U.S.
and orders for most durable goods climbed, indicating the
world’s largest economy sped up heading into the second quarter,
according to data released on April 23. The U.S. is the world’s
second-largest copper consumer.  
 July-delivery copper on the Shanghai Futures Exchange
climbed as much as 1.8 percent to 61,680 yuan ($9,034) a ton and
closed at 61,450 yuan. The three-month LME contract was at
$7,844.75 a ton at 3:36 p.m. in Shanghai.  
 Dollar Gains  
 The dollar has strengthened about 7 percent against
Europe’s common currency this year amid speculation that other
members of the bloc may struggle to curb their deficits. The
dollar earlier fell against the euro after Greek Finance
Minister George Papaconstantinou told investors yesterday they
will “lose their shirts” if they bet that Greece will default.  
 China, the world’s biggest copper user, stepped up efforts
to contain a housing bubble as previous measures failed to
prevent property prices from surging by a record 11.7 percent in
March. The China Securities Regulatory Commission has sent
financing requests from 41 companies to the Ministry of Land and
Resources for review, according to an April 24 statement.  
 Government measures on real estate “will continue to
dampen sentiment, though they may not change short-term metals
demand in reality,” Zhu Haitao, an analyst at Zhongcai Futures
Co., said from Shanghai today.  
 “We’ve probably seen the peak of copper for this quarter
as there remains selling pressure at the $8,000 level,” Zhu
said. The metal rose to more than that price earlier this month
for the first time since the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in 2008.  
 Aluminum rose 0.4 percent to $2,343 a ton, lead gained 0.7
percent to $2,315 a ton and zinc climbed 1 percent to $2,429.25
a ton. Nickel advanced 1.2 percent to $27,360 a ton and tin
climbed 0.5 percent to $19,100.  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Li Xiaowei in Shanghai at 
 Xli12@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        