-- Cotton Falls From Two-Year High in New York on Signs Rally Went Too Far
-- Debarati Roy
-- 2010-04-26T19:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/cotton-extends-rally-to-two-year-high-as-economic-growth-may-boost-demand.html

          
          
             Cotton futures dropped in New York
amid signs of speculative selling after prices jumped to a two-
year high and investors pared commodity holdings.  
 Earlier, cotton rose to 87.1 cents a pound, the highest
price since March 6, 2008, on speculation that a recovery in the
global economy will lift demand for textiles. Crude oil and the
grain markets climbed before retreating. The reversal in other
markets may have contributed to cotton’s fall, said Andy Ryan, a
risk-management consultant at brokerage FCStone Group Inc.  
 “The market may have gotten a little ahead of itself this
morning when it touched 87 cents,” said Ryan in Nashville,
Tennessee. “Maybe some of the specs came in to take profit and
sold out of some of their longs.”  
 Cotton for July delivery fell 0.31 cent, or 0.4 percent, to
85.89 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York. The
commodity climbed 5.7 percent last week, the most since mid-
February. Cotton surged 63 percent in the past year as demand
outpaced production.  
 India, the largest grower after China, banned exports last
week to preserve domestic supply and limit price gains. The
government halted registration of export contracts until
“further orders” and said those registered before April 19
need to be revalidated.  
 “This will continue to support prices,” said Keith Brown,
the president of Keith Brown & Co., a brokerage in Moultrie,
Georgia.  
 Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators increased
their net-long position, or bets on rising prices, in cotton
futures by 22 percent in the week ended April 20 to the highest
level since early January, government data show.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in New York at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        