-- Covered Bond Sales Poised to Accelerate on Diversification: Canada Credit
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-04-26T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/covered-bond-sales-poised-to-accelerate-on-diversification-canada-credit.html

          
          
             Sales in Canada’s $15.2 billion
covered bond market are poised to quicken as financial
institutions seek to diversify funding sources and investors
look for added safety amid potential regulatory changes.  
 Canada’s banks sold $5 billion in covered bonds so far this
year, compared with about $6 billion in 2008 and $1.4 billion
last year, according to research by BNP Paribas SA. Outstanding
covered bonds, which use mortgages or public-sector loans to
guarantee payments, amount to about $2 trillion worldwide.  
 “Two things we’re intrigued by: one of them is the cost-
effective financing; covered bonds price inside senior unsecured
debt levels,” Peter Walker, associate vice president of capital
finance at TD Bank Financial Group, a unit of Toronto-Dominion
Bank, said in a telephone interview. “And it’s the investor
diversification benefit.”  
 Sales of covered bonds “certainly could” accelerate this
year, Walker said. Many large investors, including some central
banks, can only purchase high-rated debt, he said. Most covered
bonds are rated AAA.  
 Toronto-Dominion, Canada’s second-largest lender, is
“close” to filing a base shelf prospectus with European
regulators establishing the bank’s covered bond program, though
they have no immediate plans to issue debt under the program
Walker said.  
 Borrowers pay an average 85 basis points less than on
traditional debt, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data shows,
allowing banks to reduce financing costs. Some mortgages used to
back Canadian covered bonds are guaranteed by the nation’s
housing agency.  
 ‘Worst Weekly’  
 The extra yield investors demand to own euro-denominated
covered bonds relative to government debt is the highest in
almost two months at 93 basis points, from a high for the year
of 100 basis points on Feb. 8, Merrill Lynch index data show.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own the debt of Canada’s provinces instead of its
federal government ended the week at 54 basis points, the most
since October, a separate Merrill index showed.  
 “This is the worst weekly spread performance we have seen
in six months,” Jean-Francois Godin, a Montreal-based vice-
president of fixed income research at Desjardins Securities
Inc., wrote in an April 19 note to clients, referring to
provincial bond spreads in the five days ended April 16.
“Spreads are back to the levels of late summer 2009, and if we
exclude the credit crisis, as far back as the late nineties.”  
 Legal Certainty  
 China designated Canada as a country where financial
institutions can make investments, Finance Minister Jim Flaherty
said on April 23 on the ministry’s Web site. Flaherty said the
agreement could lead to up to $8 billion of capital flowing into
Canada.  
 The yield advantage of the Canadian two-year note over the
comparable U.S. Treasury note narrowed to 92 basis points on
April 23. It reached 106 basis points on April 21, the widest
since March 2008.  
 The federal government said in its March 4 budget that it
would add legislation setting out rules for covered bonds which
would aim to “increase legal certainty” for investors,
according to the budget documents.  
 Canada’s covered bond market is worth about $15.2 billion,
BNP data shows. The bonds, which offer holders a preferential
claim against the cash flows arising from the cover assets, may
become more popular if regulatory changes in the U.S. make it
less likely that governments will rescue failing financial
institutions.  
 ‘Key Benefit’  
 “The key benefit for CIBC of the covered bond program is
the flexibility to reach so many new sets of buyers and
jurisdictions,” Shelley Tom, treasury director at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce, said in remarks last week at a
conference organized by Euromoney magazine. CIBC has issued
covered debt in euros, U.S. dollars and Swiss francs since
September 2008. “The market is reopened now.”  
 Royal Bank of Canada on April 7 sold $1.5 billion in five-
year notes. The bonds yielded 45.9 basis points more than
similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries, Bloomberg data show.  
 CIBC, Canada’s fifth-largest bank, sold $2 billion of
three-year U.S. dollar-denominated covered bonds on Jan. 27. The
fixed-rate debt yielded 30 basis points more than the benchmark
mid-swap rate.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        