-- Credit Suisse Sees Demand for Australia, N.Z. Bonds, Currency, Grows Team
-- Candice Zachariahs
-- 2010-04-26T23:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/credit-suisse-sees-demand-for-australia-n-z-bonds-currency-grows-team.html

          
          
             Credit Suisse Group AG is expanding
its interest-rate trading business for Australia and New Zealand
as demand grows for the nations’ higher-yielding assets.  
 The bank, Switzerland’s second-biggest, has added five new
positions in Singapore, including the recruitment of Jarrod Kerr
as a director for rates strategy, reporting to Ken Brier, head
of non-Japan Asia Pacific rates trading. Chief Executive Officer
Brady Dougan said April 22 that the bank will hire people in its
rates and foreign exchange, emerging markets and credit products
businesses to gain market share.  
 “A lot of our central bank clients are looking to
diversify out of U.S. dollars, and Australia is one of the key
markets within fixed income,” said Brier, who moved in August
to Singapore, where the bank is consolidating its non-Japan
rates business. “If you look at the G-3 right now -- Japan,
Europe and the U.S. -- each has its own problems. That works to
the advantage of Australia.”  
 Credit Suisse has assembled a two-person bond-trading desk
in Singapore and added a sales position there. It also hired
London-based Bevan Harris as a cash and derivatives trader for
Australia and New Zealand. One or two more recruitments are “in
discussion,” with any further expansion depending on growth
prospects, Brier said.  
 “Fiscally, Australia is in a stronger position than some
of the other alternative currencies that you would look to
invest in,” he said.  
 The A$1.2 trillion ($1.1 trillion) Australian economy
emerged from the global financial crisis without “excessive
debt” and is positioned to benefit from the rise of China and
India, Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said April 23.  
 Return to Surplus  
 The government, which faces a cash deficit in the year
ending June 30 of 4.7 percent of gross domestic product, was
forecast to remain in deficit until fiscal year 2014, according
to this year’s budget. It forecast last year that debt will peak
at 10 percent of GDP in fiscal 2014.  
 In contrast, the International Monetary Fund expects the
U.S.’s budget deficit will be around 8 percent of GDP in 2020,
and federal debt will exceed 100 percent of GDP, up from its
current level of 85 percent.  
 “The amount of Australian government debt that needs to be
issued over the next decade will be significantly less than
previously reported, with the commodity boom returning the
country to surpluses earlier than anticipated,” Kerr said.
“The premium on Australian bonds will stay, particularly with
the amount of interest we’re seeing from central banks around
the world.”  
 Kangaroo Bonds  
 Australia’s gross outstanding debt grew to A$134.66 billion
in March 2010 from A$57.84 billion at the end of 2008, according
to the Australian Office of Financial Management.  
 Credit Suisse will also hire a syndication specialist in
Singapore, seeing a “great opportunity” in Aussie-denominated
foreign debt, Brier said.  
 Sales of so-called Kangaroo bonds jumped to A$19.6 billion
this year from A$5.5 billion in the first half of 2009, as
overseas borrowers including the Asian Development Bank and
European Investment Bank sold local-currency notes in Australia,
Bloomberg data show. Goldman Sachs JBWere Pty said last week
that U.S. and European non-financial companies may sell Kangaroo
bonds for the first time in four years.  
 Credit Suisse will also offer electronic trading in
Australian and New Zealand swaps via Bloomberg, in addition to
its current euro and Swiss franc offerings, Brier said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        