-- Crude Falls as Dollar's Gains Reduce the Investment Appeal of Commodities
-- Mark Shenk
-- 2010-04-26T19:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/crude-oil-fluctuates-as-equities-advance-dollar-climbs-against-euro.html

          
          
             Crude oil fell for the first time
in five days as the dollar strengthened against the euro,
reducing the appeal of commodities to investors.  
 Oil retreated 1.1 percent as the euro dropped for the
seventh time in eight days on concern the European Union-led
Greek bailout plan will be held up. Brent oil in London climbed
to an 18-month high earlier today as corporate earnings
improved, signaling that fuel demand will increase.  
 “The dollar seems to be the primary driver of the oil
market right now,” said Kyle Cooper, a managing director at
energy consultant IAF Advisors in Houston. “We aren’t really
focused on the fundamentals of the oil market.”  
 Crude oil for June delivery fell 92 cents to settle at
$84.20 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Futures
reached $85.63, the highest intraday level since April 15. Oil
is up 6.1 percent this year and 63 percent from a year ago.  
 Brent crude for June settlement declined 42 cents, or 0.5
percent, to end the session at $86.83 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The contract touched $87.75 a
barrel, the highest intraday price since Oct. 7, 2008. Brent,
usually cheaper than contracts on the Nymex, is trading at a
$2.63-a-barrel premium.  
 The dollar advanced to $1.3345 against the euro, up 0.3
percent from $1.3384 on April 23. The euro fell against all 16
of its most-traded peers on concern the Greek bailout plan faces
hurdles as donor countries begin ratifying the aid package.  
 German Demands  
 German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Greece needs to show
its budget is on a “sustainable” path and a full German
agreement to a bailout may take “a few days.” She made the
remarks in a statement in Berlin.  
 “The market is still under the spell of macroeconomic
factors like economic optimism, the dollar and high liquidity,”
said Eugen Weinberg, senior analyst with Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt. “The situation in Greece has an indirect impact on
the oil markets through the U.S. dollar and equity markets.”  
 Rising stockpiles of crude oil at Cushing, Oklahoma, where
the New York-traded West Texas Intermediate oil grade is stored,
have reduced Nymex oil relative to Brent and lowered front-month
oil contracts relative to future prices. Inventories surged 5.8
percent to 34.1 million barrels in the week ended April 16,
according to the Energy Department.  
 The price of oil on the Nymex for June delivery is $2.27
lower than for July, the widest divergence between front-month
contracts since Dec. 14. This structure, in which the future
month’s price is higher than for the one before it, is known as
contango and allows buyers to profit from storing oil.  
 Floating Storage  
 Traders increased the number of vessels used to store crude
oil by 75 percent last week as the potential profit from storage
rose, Morgan Stanley said. There were 21 oil tankers storing
dirty products last week, 20 of them very-large crude carriers,
up from 12 vessels in the previous week, Ole Slorer, a Morgan
Stanley analyst, said in a report yesterday.  
 About 41 million barrels of oil were stored in the tankers,
Morgan Stanley said, enough to meet more than two days of U.S.
consumption. That’s up from 24.5 million barrels a week ago.  
 “We’ve seen oil prices in a range of $75 to $85 a
barrel,” Kuwait’s Oil Minister Sheikh Ahmad Al-Abdullah Al-
Ahmad Al-Sabah said at a conference in Kuwait City today. “At
this level they are acceptable. They are high enough to ensure
investment in new capacity, and there is agreement between
producers and consumers this won’t hurt the world economy.”  
 Kuwait has a production capacity of 3.1 million barrels of
oil a day, Sheikh Ahmad said in a speech at the Conference
Connection’s Middle East Petroleum and Gas Conference. Output is
limited by Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries quotas
to 2.2 million barrels a day, leaving about 1 million barrels a
day of spare capacity, he said.  
 Economic Risk  
 Francisco Blanch, head of commodities research at Bank of
America-Merrill Lynch, speaking at the conference, said
prolonged high oil prices would hurt recovery in the global
economy.  
 “If we have price spikes, we will have major problems in
the world’s biggest economies,” Blanch said. “If we go over
$100 for too many months, the world economy will experience
pain.”  
 Oil volume on the Nymex was 586,611 contracts as of 3:12
p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 608,421 contracts on April 23,
8.8 percent lower than the average of the past three months.
Open interest was 1.37 million contracts. The exchange has a
one-business-day delay in reporting open interest and full
volume data.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        