-- Czech Koruna to Extend Gains, Sustain Low Rates, Danske, Raiffeisen Say
-- Peter Laca
-- 2010-04-27T06:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/czech-koruna-to-extend-gains-sustain-low-rates-danske-raiffeisen-say.html

          
          
             The Czech koruna, which has risen
3.8 percent against the euro this year, is set to extend gains
as an export-driven recovery fuels demand for the currency and
outweighs risks of a political gridlock after May elections,
said Danske Bank A/S and Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich AG.  
 The currency may strengthen beyond 25 per euro for the
first time since November 2008 in September, damping inflation
pressures and allowing the central bank to leave interest rates
at a record low until the third quarter, predicted analysts at
Danske, Raiffeisen and Ceska Sporitelna AS, a unit of Erste Bank
Group AG.  
 “We’ve become more bullish on the koruna in both the
short-term and long-term horizons,” said Stanislava Pravdova at
Danske in an e-mail to Bloomberg News. “We expect a current-
account surplus in 2011 and 2012, which is clearly koruna-
positive, as it reduces” external funding needs. Danske sees
the koruna rising 2.9 percent to 24.7 per euro in three months.  
 Czech manufacturing is benefiting from a recovery in its
main trading partners in western Europe as demand grows for cars
made in the country by Volkswagen’s Skoda Auto AS and Hyundai
Motor Co, spurring demand for koruna. The industry’s output rose
29 percent in the first quarter and its exports grew 23 percent.  
 The currency may come under pressure if parliamentary
elections on May 28/29 result in a stalemate, as they did four
years ago, and raise concern over how the government will narrow
the deficit, Martin Lobotka, an analyst at Ceska Sporitelna,
said in a report yesterday.  
 ‘No Easy Way’  
 Five parties may make it to the parliament, a survey by
pollster CVVM showed on April 21, making several coalitions
possible.  
 “Current polls suggest that there will be no easy way to
set up a functioning coalition which would allow for sustainable
fiscal consolidation,” Jaromir Sindel, a Citigroup Inc. analyst
in Prague, said in an April 26 report.  
 After suffering its worst recession since the fall of
communism two decades ago, the economy is forecast by the
central bank to expand for the first time in five quarters on an
annual basis in the January-March period. Growth will be driven
by exports, while domestic demand, stifled by unemployment of
about 10 percent, will tame inflation.  
 Industrial output rose for a third month in February, after
14 consecutive declines, and the trade surplus widened in
February as demand helped boost exports 11 percent in the year.  
 Currency Gains  
 Currencies such as the koruna, zloty, forint and leu are
gaining as investors switch funds from some euro-zone economies,
including Greece, Portugal, Ireland and Spain, to buy assets in
the eastern members of the European Union, which have faster
growth potential and where deficit and debt levels are lower.  
 Investors are rewarding austere fiscal policies, including
International Monetary Fund-led programs in Hungary and Romania.
Poland, the only EU member to avoid a recession during the
credit crisis, and the Czech Republic are also returning to
fiscal tightening after spending to stimulate economies.  
 The koruna, which has gained as much as 4.8 percent against
the common currency this year, was unchanged from late yesterday
at 25.430 as of 8:45 a.m. in Prague.  
 The Greek crisis has stimulated investor appetite for Czech
bonds, with the state’s debt as a percentage of output seen at
half the euro-area average this year. The government sold more
bonds due in 2024 than it had planned on April 21 as reduced
local issuance and speculation of a further rate cut pushed the
yield to an all-time low.  
 ‘Small, Open’  
 The central bank’s board voted on March 25 to keep the
benchmark two-week interest rate at a record-low 1 percent, the
same as the European Central Bank. Vice-governor Miroslav Singer
said on April 13 the bank had room to cut rates and faced no
pressure to tighten policy.  
 The “small and open” economy has more private savings
than investments and inflows of foreign capital, which creates
appreciation pressure on the koruna, analysts at CSOB AS, a unit
of KBC Groep NV, said in an April 21 note. “This is increasing
interest in safe, fixed-income assets in koruna and that’s why
government bond yields are at their current level.”  
 The central bank will meet to decide on interest rates on
May 6 and will also present a quarterly update of its forecasts.
The current outlook sees inflation rising above its 2 percent
target midpoint in the fourth quarter from 0.7 percent in March,
while staying within the 1 percent to 3 percent target range.
Price growth should ease in the first quarter of 2011, it said.  
 The bank said in the minutes of its March meeting that rate
increases will come later and at a slower pace than assumed in
its February forecasts, in which it signaled higher borrowing
costs after June  
 “The new forecast won’t urge a quick tightening of
monetary policy, rather the contrary, it may emphasize the anti-
inflationary risks,” Michal Brozka, a Raiffeisenbank analyst in
Prague, said in a phone interview.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at   placa@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        