-- Delta Says JFK's 1960s `Third World' Terminal Keeping Business Fliers Away
-- Mary Jane Credeur
-- 2010-04-26T18:59:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/delta-says-third-world-jfk-terminal-needs-upgrade-to-win-business-fliers.html

          
          
             Delta Air Lines Inc. must upgrade
its 1960s-era terminal at New York’s Kennedy airport to win more
higher-fare international business travelers, an executive said.  
 Delta is working to compete for New York corporate fliers
with American Airlines, United Airlines and Continental Airlines
Inc., Treasurer Paul Jacobson said today. Kennedy’s Terminal 3
is known for its saucer-shaped roof and was dubbed Worldport.  
 “Customers equate that to a third-world country, and I
think they’re right,” Jacobson said today at a conference in
New York hosted by Airfinance Journal. “We’ve got to improve
facilities at JFK.”  
 Delta has considered razing Terminal 3 and building a new
one. The airline’s investments at John F. Kennedy International
Airport total more than $70 million over the past four years,
and talks continue on a “long-term facility solution” with the
Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, said Leslie Parker, a
Delta spokeswoman.  
 The agency is working with many airlines to overhaul
facilities, according to Aviation Director Susan Baer. “We are
in discussions with Delta, and we share their view that their
customers deserve better,” Baer said through a spokesman.  
 Jacobson said Atlanta-based Delta is “aggressively
targeting” corporate travelers by installing more lie-flat
seats on international wide-body jets and adding new routes.
Spending on fleet improvements will be $1 billion over the next
three years, Delta has said.  
 AMR Corp.’s American, UAL Corp.’s United and Continental
have been “dominant in the corporate travel market a long time
and have built up a lot of loyalty” in New York, Jacobson said.  
 Delta is also trying to build New York’s LaGuardia airport
into a hub for domestic flights through a proposed swap of
takeoff and landing slots with US Airways Group Inc.  
 Under the plan, which is being reviewed by the U.S.
Transportation Department, Delta wants to acquire 110 slot pairs
at LaGuardia from US Airways, in exchange for 37 of its pairs at
Washington’s Reagan National airport.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in New York at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net .
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        