-- Depressed Eat More Chocolate, No Evidence It Works
-- Nicole Ostrow
-- 2010-04-26T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/depressed-eat-more-chocolate-no-evidence-it-works.html

          
          
             People battling signs of major
depression showed a yearning for chocolate that drove them to
eat twice as much of the sweet treat as those not depressed,
University of California researchers said.  
 Adults with symptoms of severe depression gobbled an
average of 11.8 one-ounce servings a month, according to the
study. That’s comparable to about six dozen Hershey’s Kisses
monthly. Individuals not depressed ate 5.4 one-ounce servings,
and those who showed possible signs of the condition nibbled
8.4, the scientists said. Men consumed almost as much chocolate
as women, according to data on more than 900 adults.  
 While chocolate has a “rich cultural tradition” that
links it to mood benefits, few scientific studies address the
issue, wrote Beatrice Golomb, an author on today’s paper in the
Archives of Internal Medicine. The study found an increase in
chocolate intake tied to depression, without evidence it helped.  
 “When people feel the mood for a pick-me-up, they do pick
up chocolate,” said Golomb, an associate professor at the
School of Medicine at the University of California, San Diego,
in a telephone interview on April 23. “If there is a ‘treatment
benefit,’ it did not suffice to overcome the depressed mood on
average,” she wrote in the study.  
 About 27 million  people ages 6 and older in the U.S took
antidepressants in 2005, according to an August 2009 report by
researchers at Columbia University in New York. Sales of the
drugs totaled $9.9 billion in the U.S. last year, according to
IMS Health Inc., a research company based in Norwalk,
Connecticut.  
 Cravings  
 While it is possible that depression may stimulate
chocolate cravings to improve mood, an independent physiological
factor could lead a person to feel both depression and desire
for chocolate, the authors said in the study.  
 The scientists didn’t find any evidence of a benefit from
chocolate, as it didn’t seem to help people overcome their
depressed mood on average.  
 The study was conducted by giving questionnaires to 931 men
and women in San Diego who weren’t using antidepressants and who
provided information on how much chocolate and other food they
ate. Their average age was 57, while 70 percent were male and 59
percent were college graduates.  
 Depression Screening  
 The researchers gave participants a widely used screening
test for depression that rates feelings and behavior on a scale
of 0 to 60. A score of 16 or higher indicated that someone had
possible depression and should be evaluated for a diagnosis. A
score of 22 or higher meant probable major depression, the
authors said.  
 In the study, 49 men and 20 women had depression scores in
the “possible” zone, between 16 and 21, while 27 men and 15
women had scores of 22 or higher indicating major depression,
Golomb said.  
 Nondepressed men ate about five servings of chocolate a
month, and nondepressed women had about six. Among those with
scores of 16 and higher, men consumed 7.5 servings a month and
women nibbled 10.4 helpings. In those who scored in the highest
group, over 22, men ate 9.4 and women had 16 servings a month.  
 Previous research found a link between caffeine, which is
an ingredient of chocolate, and better mood in women. Today’s
study didn’t find any association between the two.  
 “The findings did not appear to be explained by a general
increase in caffeine, fat, carbohydrate or energy intake,
suggesting that our findings are specific to chocolate,” Golomb
said in a statement.  
 Symptoms of depression are sadness, loss of interest in
activities, feelings of worthlessness, difficulty sleeping or
oversleeping, and energy loss. Almost half of people diagnosed
with depression don’t get help they need, according to the
National Institutes of Health, based in Bethesda, Maryland.  
 For Related News and Information:  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        