-- Deutsche Bank Approved to Offer Apple, Google Shares in Brazilian Market
-- Laura Price
-- 2010-04-26T16:48:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/deutsche-bank-to-issue-receipts-in-apple-google-exxon-on-brazil-bovespa.html

          
          
             Deutsche Bank AG will be allowed to
issue non-sponsored Brazilian depositary receipts of 10 overseas
companies as the nation’s stock exchange seeks to increase the
range of assets available to investors, BM&FBovespa SA said.  
 Deutsche Bank was approved to issue BDRs of stocks
including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Google Inc. without
participation from the companies, the first such offering in
Brazil, according BM&FBovespa. A phone call to Deutsche Bank’s
Sao Paulo press office was not immediately returned. Deutsche
Bank will hold shares of the companies and create depositary
receipts that can be bought and sold over the counter in Brazil
starting in the second half, the exchange owner said.  
 Eleven BDRs that were issued directly by companies
currently trade on Brazil’s stock exchange, according to
BM&FBovespa’s Web site.  
 “The trend of exchanges becoming more international is
irreversible, and with this the Bovespa won’t be left out of
that trend,” said Aloisio Lemos, an analyst at Agora Corretora
in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil’s second-biggest brokerage. “This
opens up a new investment possibility for outside companies to
participate in the Brazilian market.”  
 Deutsche Bank was approved to issue depositary receipts
representing shares of Goldman Sachs, Google, Apple Inc.,
ArcelorMittal, Bank of America Corp., BHP Billiton Ltd., Exxon
Mobil Corp., McDonald’s Corp, Pfizer Inc. and Wal-Mart Stores
Inc., BM&FBovespa said. The exchange will likely allow other
lenders to act as depositary banks in a competitive bidding
process in the future, the statement said.  
 “The BM&FBovespa has as its objective the offer of new
investment alternatives to the market,” the exchange said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Paulo Winterstein in Sao Paulo at 
 pwinterstein@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Price in London at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        