-- `War' on Obesity Is Needed to Cut U.S. Health Costs, Michael Milken Says
-- Rob Waters
-- 2010-04-26T19:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/disease-prevention-key-to-health-care-improvement-michael-milken-says.html

          
          
             The U.S. medical-system overhaul
will improve the nation’s health and cut costs only if it’s
followed by initiatives to curtail the epidemic of obesity and
diabetes, said Michael Milken, founder of the Milken Institute.  
 Milken and health industry executives speaking at a panel
presentation on the health-care overhaul today called for a
national “war” on obesity modeled after the public campaign
against smoking that has slashed rates of cigarette use among
Americans. The panel was part of the institute’s annual global
conference.  
 A survivor of prostate cancer, Milken wrote in the first-
quarter issue of the Milken Institute Review this year that he
wants to see the $5 billion budget of the National Cancer
Institute doubled over five years. Treating preventable diseases
in the U.S. costs $1.3 trillion a year, according to a 2007
report by the institute, a Santa Monica-based research group.  
 “There is nothing that would do more for the U.S. economy
than eliminating heart disease” and other conditions linked to
obesity, Milken said at the panel.  
 While the U.S. health system generally fails to emphasize
prevention, the efforts against smoking show such efforts can
succeed, said Jay Gellert, president and chief executive officer
of HealthNet Inc., a Woodland Hills, California-based health
insurer.  
 Prevention Model  
 “We have a model for dealing with prevention,” Gellert
said during the panel discussion. “America has the best results
on smoking of any country. We took it off TV, taxed it to death.
But we’re not going to war against obesity.”  
 Increasing taxes on products high in fat, sugar and salt
such as soft drinks, snacks and fast food would steer people
away from unhealthy foods while creating revenue that could pay
for education and prevention efforts, said Ardis Hoven, chair-
elect of the board of trustees of the American Medical
Association.  
 The health overhaul law passed last month by Congress will
provide medical access to 32 million uninsured Americans, giving
doctors a chance to help people earlier in the course of a
disease, when it’s cheaper and more effective, said Hoven, an
infectious disease specialist in Lexington, Kentucky.  
 The health overhaul is “a mixed blessing,” said Gellert.
“We’re finally covering people who need to be covered. The down
side is that this bill fundamentally is uneconomic. The costs
are not bearable in our economy unless we find a way to deal
with the cost issue at the same time as we deal with the
coverage issue.”  
 Government Action  
 The government must play a key role in creating a health
system more focused on wellness and prevention, Milken said. He
said that rates of diabetes in the U.S. declined only twice in
the 20th century, during the two World Wars.  
 “We were asked to sacrifice on butter, fat, etc. and to
walk more,” Milken said. “The U.S. ran these ads all through
World War II -- please eat vegetables and let the troops eat the
butter. During those times, people got healthier.”  
 Lack of exercise among Americans, starting with children,
also contributes to the country’s health concerns, Milken said.
Only 29 percent of U.S. high schools now provide daily physical
education classes for students, he said.  
 “We know you will die prematurely if you’re overweight,”
Milken said. “It’s an issue of priorities.”  
 The U.S. also risks losing its global leadership role in
health and science research to Asian countries led by China,
said David Brennan, chief executive officer of London-based
AstraZeneca Plc.  
 “The Chinese are investing billions of dollars in creating
science parks, and recruiting” Chinese citizens trained as
scientists in the U.S. to return to their home country, Brennan
said. “They have a 20- to 40-year plan to bring that expertise
back to China.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Waters in Los Angeles at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        