-- Dollar Will Gain on `Once in a Decade' Investor Sentiment Shift, UBS Says
-- Mary Childs
-- 2010-04-26T21:31:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/dollar-will-gain-on-once-in-a-decade-investor-sentiment-shift-ubs-says.html

          
          
             The dollar will strengthen more
than the euro, yen and pound as it undergoes a “once-in-a-
decade” shift and becomes identified with higher-yielding
assets as the U.S. economy improves, according to UBS AG.  
 The greenback will also gain as the Federal Reserve raises
interest rates “well before” the European Central Bank and the
Banks of Japan and England, while Europe continues to struggle
with sovereign debt burdens, UBS analysts including Mansoor
Mohi-uddin, chief currency strategist in Singapore, wrote in a
report to clients.  
 “The dollar seems to be undergoing a once-in-a-decade
regime shift whereby the greenback is becoming positively
correlated with investor sentiment as America’s economy recovers
faster than Europe and Japan,” they wrote. “Now the dollar is
likely to appreciate as stocks and commodities rise as investors
expect better returns in the U.S. compared to other G7
economies,” they wrote, referring to the Group of Seven
nations.  
 For the last decade, the dollar would lag behind its major
peers when investors sought riskier, higher-yield assets, the
strategists wrote.  
 While Greece should get aid from the European Union and
International Monetary Fund as it struggles to keep from
defaulting, the strategists wrote, the “travails of the euro
zone have damaged the euro as an alternative to the dollar.”  
 The dollar touched the highest versus Japan’s currency
today since April 6, 94.36 yen, and gained as much as 0.7
percent to $1.3292 per euro, almost the strongest level in a
year, before trading little changed against both counterparts in
New York.  
 Government reports last week showed sales of U.S. new homes
in March jumped 26.9 percent, the most in almost five decades,
and orders for U.S. durable goods excluding transportation items
surged 2.8 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        