-- Dollar, Euro, Pound Are All `Ugly Sisters' for Investing, HSBC's King Says
-- Jennifer Ryan
-- 2010-04-26T14:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/dollar-euro-pound-are-all-ugly-sisters-for-investing-hsbc-s-king-says.html

          
          
             The dollar, euro and pound are all
unappealing investments, either because of policies of “benign
neglect” or concerns on the euro region’s stability, said
Stephen King, chief economist at HSBC Holdings Plc.  
 “It is a competition between ugly sisters, they are none
of them particularly attractive” he said in an interview today
in London. In the U.S. and U.K., “there will be a policy of a
desire not so much to drive the currency low, but a policy of
benign neglect. If the dollar weakens and sterling weakens, the
authorities in those countries will be more than happy.”  
 The European Central Bank won’t want to see a weaker euro
because that would imply a loss of investor confidence in the
single currency, King said. The euro has dropped against the
dollar and sterling on concern that Greece won’t get a rescue
package to help it meet its debt payments.  
 “If the euro weakens, it’s more a worry about the
stability of the euro zone and that’s more of a concern to the
ECB,” he said. “You’ve got on the one hand the benign neglect
approach from the States and the U.K., on the other you have the
worries about the structural integrity of the euro, which is
obviously weakening the euro.”  
 King’s book, “Losing Control: The Emerging Threats to
Western Prosperity,” will be published next month.  
 The euro is down about 1.5 percent against the dollar this
month and traded at $1.3331 as of 2:39 p.m. in London. The
currency has dropped 3.3 percent against the pound in the same
period to 86.13 pence.  
 Obama’s Budget  
 King said the advantages of a weaker currency in tackling
public deficits suggests the dollar will decline in the coming
years. President Barack Obama’s proposed budget calls for a $1.6
trillion deficit in 2010, compared with last year’s record $1.4
trillion shortfall.  
 “My guess is over a year or two years the dollar would go
back to its underlying tendency to decline,” King said. “If
you’ve got the world reserve currency, take advantage of it.
There are plenty of people who are willing to hold it, so go for
the depreciation, it’s not like you can do too much damage.”  
 The U.S., Britain and some European countries are similar
in that they all have big budget deficits that will require
higher taxes and public spending cutbacks, King said. He said
the advantage for the U.S. is that it can exploit demand for the
dollar to fund its “enormous” borrowing.  
 Creditors of the U.S. will eventually sour on that
arrangement, and may raise demands for other American assets or
move away from the greenback as the world reserve currency, King
said. He said the U.S.’s practice is similar to the Catholic
church’s sale of indulgences in medieval times.  
 “You’re making a promise to people not for a wonderful
afterlife, so to speak, but making a promise in this case that
U.S. taxpayers in the future will pay you back,” he said. “The
chances of that promise being met are actually quite low. And
the difficulty with this is that eventually the creditor nations
will begin to realize that buying IOUs from the U.S. is
ultimately not in their interest.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        