-- Dubai Shares Fall as Dubai World Restructuring Talks Dampen Foreign Demand
-- Zahra Hankir
-- 2010-04-26T13:21:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/dubai-shares-fall-as-dubai-world-restructuring-talks-dampen-foreign-demand.html

          
          
             Dubai’s benchmark index fell for
the first time in three days as Dubai World’s talks to
restructure $24.8 billion of debt dampened foreign investors’
interest in local stocks.  
 Emaar Properties PJSC, the developer of the world’s tallest
skyscraper in Dubai, declined the most since April 19. Emirates
Integrated Telecommunications Co. dropped 2 percent. The DFM
General Index slid 0.7 percent to 1,757.19, bringing the decline
this month to 4.7 percent. Abu Dhabi’s ADX General Index
retreated 0.4 percent.  
 “Foreign investors are still reluctant to pull the trigger
until the Dubai World issue is resolved,” said Julian Bruce,
director of equity sales at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, the biggest
publicly traded Arab investment bank. “Retail investors were
expecting at least some buying momentum on the back of good
numbers thus far, but as it failed to materialize they see no
reason to hold on to stock and are therefore offloading.”  
 Dubai said a month ago it will support Dubai World’s debt
restructuring with $9.5 billion as one of the three main state-
owned holding companies asks creditors to wait up to eight years
to get all their money back. Dubai World is offering to pay
creditors 1 percent interest on new loans, a banker familiar
with the plan said April 15. Banks are reluctant to accept the
new rate as it’s lower than the market rate, said two bankers,
who declined to be identified.  
 Earnings  
 Emirates NBD PJSC, the United Arab Emirates’ biggest bank
by assets, today reported first-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates. The shares gained 1.7 percent, the most in
two weeks, to 2.95 dirhams. Emaar, which last week said first-
quarter profit more than tripled to 760 million dirhams ($207
million) helped by its shopping mall and hotel units, retreated
2 percent to 3.96 dirhams.  
 Emirates Integrated, the Dubai-based phone company known as
Du, dropped to 2.51 dirhams.  
 Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul All Share Index rose for a fourth
day, gaining 0.5 percent to 6,929.4, the highest since September
2008. Oman’s MSM30 Index increased less than 0.1 percent, while
Qatar’s measure declined 0.2 percent. Bahrain’s gauge lost 1
percent and the Kuwait Stock Exchange Index dropped 0.6 percent.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        