-- Dubai World, Cinven Lead Four-Fold Rise in Loans to Back Leveraged Buyout
-- Patricia Kuo
-- 2010-04-26T11:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/dubai-world-cinven-lead-four-fold-rise-in-loans-to-back-leveraged-buyout.html

          
          
             Cinven Ltd. and Dubai World are
leading a surge in loans to finance buyouts, as private equity
firms capitalize on rising asset values to quadruple the amount
they raise from banks.  
 Cinven started seeking about 350 million euros ($470
million) of loans to finance its purchase of medical-equipment
maker Sebia SA, France’s biggest leveraged buyout in more than
two years. Dubai World’s investment unit Istithmar World PJSC is
arranging as much as $350 million of staple financing to attract
bidders to its Inchcape Shipping Services.  
 “The combination of lower default rates and the dramatic
revaluation in asset prices should pave the way for LBO-related
loan and bond volumes to come back from the lows of the past two
years,” said Peter Aspbury, London-based head of high-yield
research at European Credit Management Ltd., which oversees 12
billion euros.  
 In a leveraged buyout, private-equity firms borrow to pay
for part of the acquisition by using the target company’s cash
flow to repay lenders and loading it with debt. Deal-making
froze in 2007 after underwriters got stuck with $200 billion of
loans they couldn’t sell during the global credit crisis.  
 Lenders led by Lloyds Banking Group Plc arranged more than
$1.68 billion of leveraged buyout loans in Europe this year,
compared with $455 million a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Asset Prices Rise  
 LBO firms announced $13 billion of transactions in the
first quarter, more than four times the amount from a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The firms have
about $500 billion in unspent capital they need to deploy,
according to London-based researcher Preqin Ltd.  
 Blackstone Group LP, the world’s largest private-equity
firm, on April 22 said that it boosted the value of LBO
investments by 16 percent.  
 Prices for actively-traded buyout loans in Europe climbed
30 percent in the past year to 96.4 percent of face value,
according to Standard & Poor’s.  
 Banks are resuming LBO lending as the rate of default for
speculative-grade borrowers worldwide declined to 8.32 percent
in March, from 8.77 percent the previous month, S&P data show.  
 S&P expects the default rate to fall to 5 percent by year-
end, lower than the 6.9 percent it had been forecasting by
September. Moody’s Investors Service said April 7 the rate may
decline to 2.8 percent by year-end.  
 Lending Standards Ease  
 “While banks aren’t falling over themselves to lend like
in 2006, lending standards have eased considerably in recent
quarters, also to private-equity firms,” Citigroup analysts led
by Hans Lorenzen in London wrote in a research note on April 22.  
 Sebia and Inchcape Shipping are borrowing at multiples that
represent five times their earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, above the first-quarter average
of 4.7 times, according to Fitch Ratings.  
 Dubai World, one of the emirate’s three main state-owned
holding companies, got the financing to sell London-based
Inchcape Shipping from Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc, two people familiar with the matter
said April 20.  
 BNP Paribas SA, Commerzbank AG, GE Commercial Finance,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Lloyds Banking Group Plc, Societe
Generale SA and UniCredit SpA are bidding to arrange the Sebia
financing, which may pay interest of 450 basis points to 500
basis points more than the euro interbank offered rate. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        