-- Dubai Shares to Slide 6% in Next 3 Weeks, Rasmala Says: Technical Analysis
-- Zahra Hankir
-- 2010-04-26T07:06:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/dubai-shares-to-slide-6-in-next-3-weeks-rasmala-says-technical-analysis.html

          
          
             Dubai stocks may fall 6 percent in
the next three weeks as the earnings season ends and after
concern about Dubai World’s restructuring pushed the gauge below
a technical resistance level in March, Rasmala Investment
Holdings said.  
 The DFM General Index is down 4 percent this month, closing
at 1,769.34 yesterday. The measure first fell below 1,870 at the
end of March. It may drop to 1,670 by May 15, “where the market
will find strong support,” Nabil al Rantisi, senior vice
president at Rasmala, said. “Now that the market has reacted to
first-quarter earnings, investors will be waiting for clarity on
the debt issue and second-quarter earnings.”  
 Dubai said March 25 it will support Dubai World’s debt
restructuring with $9.5 billion as one of the three main state-
owned holding companies asks creditors to wait up to eight years
to get all their money back. The company is seeking to
renegotiate terms on $24.8 billion of debt.  
 Dubai World is offering to pay creditors 1 percent interest
on new loans, a banker familiar with the plan said April 15.
Banks are reluctant to accept the new rate as it is lower than
the market rate of about 5 percent and would force them to book
impairment provisions, said two bankers, who declined to be
identified.  
 At a level of 1,670 the market will become “attractive”
to fund managers, who exited around 1,850, “if accompanied by
low volume trading during the drop and good expectations for
operational profits in the second quarter,” Al Rantisi said.  
 He bases his estimate on the weekly trend-line support and
a 200-day moving average.  
 In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a
security, commodity, currency or index.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at   zhankir@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        