-- LeBron James Leads Cavs Past Bulls in NBA Playoffs; Spurs, Heat, Jazz Win
-- Erik Matuszewski
-- 2010-04-26T05:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/lebron-james-leads-cavaliers-past-bulls-in-nba-playoffs-spurs-heat-win.html

          
          
             LeBron James recorded his fifth
career postseason triple-double to move the Cleveland Cavaliers
within a win of reaching the second round of the National
Basketball Association playoffs.  
 James had 37 points, 12 rebounds and 11 assists as the
Cavaliers beat the Chicago Bulls 121-98 last night to take a 3-1
lead in their Eastern Conference quarterfinal series.  
 “This was the most important game for our season,” James
said in a televised interview. “It was good to see that we were
all on the same page, the same goal and we were all about
business. I’ve just turned it up another notch.”  
 While Cleveland won on the road, the Utah Jazz and San
Antonio Spurs had home wins yesterday to open 3-1 leads in their
first-round series.  
 The Jazz beat the Denver Nuggets 117-106 and the Spurs
defeated the Dallas Mavericks 92-89. The Miami Heat avoided
elimination with a 101-92 win over the Boston Celtics, yet trail
3-1 in their Eastern Conference series.  
 NBA teams leading 3-1 have won 181 of 189 times in the
league’s best-of-seven playoff format.  
 The Cavaliers, the top seed in the Eastern Conference, went
on a 22-6 scoring run spanning the second and third quarters in
Chicago to break open a one-point game.  
 Cleveland made 12-of-25 three-point shots, with James
hitting six of his nine attempts.  
 “He had that look in his eye,” Cavaliers forward Antawn
Jamison told reporters. “He did a great job setting the tone
and putting guys on his back.”  
 Winning on Road  
 Jamison had 24 points and Mo Williams added 19 as the
Cavaliers avoided losing both games on the road the way the Los
Angeles Lakers, the top seed in the West, did in Oklahoma City.  
 The Lakers and Thunder are tied 2-2 as the series heads to
Los Angeles for Game 5 tomorrow.  
 Cleveland can close out its series at home tomorrow.  
 The Spurs, seeded seventh in the West, overcame a 14-point
second-half deficit in San Antonio by outscoring the Mavericks
29-11 during the third quarter.  
 Point guard George Hill scored 29 points for the Spurs,
while Manu Ginobili added 17.  
 Dirk Nowitzki finished with 17 points and 11 rebounds for
the second-seeded Mavericks, who host Game 5 tomorrow and need
three straight wins to extend their season.  
 In Salt Lake City, Carlos Boozer scored 31 points and
grabbed 13 rebounds as the Jazz, the fifth seed in the West, won
their third consecutive game against the fourth-seeded Nuggets.  
 Jazz Extend Lead  
 Utah led 54-45 at halftime and extended its lead to as many
as 20 points during the second half.  
 Deron Williams had 24 points and 13 assists for the Jazz,
while Carmelo Anthony scored 39 points for the Nuggets, who will
host Game 5 in two days.  
 With the Heat facing elimination in Miami, Dwyane Wade
scored 19 of his franchise playoff-record 46 points during the
fourth quarter against the Celtics.  
 “I know a lot of people expected us to roll over,” Wade
said during a news conference. “I wasn’t ready for the summer
yet. We have a fight ahead of us, but they have a fight ahead of
them as well.”  
 Boston, the fourth seed in the Eastern Conference, hosts
Game 5 tomorrow.  
 The Orlando Magic, the second seed in the East, can advance
to the second round with a win today in Charlotte, North
Carolina. The Magic hold a 3-0 series lead over the Bobcats,
while the Atlanta Hawks have a 2-1 lead entering today’s game in
Milwaukee against the Bucks.  
 The Phoenix Suns and Portland Trail Blazers are tied 2-2 as
their Western Conference series continues today in Phoenix.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Triple Double  
                       
                         
                           Joe Murphy/NBAE via Getty Images. 
                         
                         LeBron James got his fourth triple-double in the NBA playoffs to lead the Cleveland Cavaliers to a 121-98 Game 4 win over the Chicago Bulls. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     LeBron James got his fourth triple-double in the NBA playoffs to lead the Cleveland Cavaliers to a 121-98 Game 4 win over the Chicago Bulls. Photographer: Joe Murphy/NBAE via Getty Images.  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
