-- EDF Will Gain 20% Stake in South Stream Gas Pipeline in June, Putin Says
-- Lucian Kim
-- 2010-04-26T15:48:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/edf-will-gain-20-stake-in-south-stream-gas-pipeline-in-june-putin-says.html

          
          
             Electricite de France SA will take
a 20 percent stake in the South Stream project, as Russian Prime
Minister Vladimir Putin adds partners to the planned gas
pipeline to Europe, designed to bypass Ukraine.  
 EDF will sign for the stake in St. Petersburg this June,
Putin said after meeting with Italian Premier Silvio Berlusconi
near Milan today. OAO Gazprom, Russia’s gas export monopoly, and
Eni SpA hold equal 50 percent stakes in South Stream.  
 Putin said a gas agreement hammered out with Ukraine’s new
government last week guarantees the transit of Russian gas to
Europe for 10 years. The deal, which extends Russia’s rights to
a naval base in Ukraine in exchange for a discounted gas price,
doesn’t eliminate the need for South Stream, he said.  
 “Some members of the Ukrainian opposition have already
said they’d break the agreement if they come to power,” Putin
said. “That’s why there’s no reason to postpone big
infrastructure projects that improve Europe’s energy security.”  
 South Stream, which was conceived during repeated gas
disputes between Gazprom and Ukraine since 2006, would run 900
kilometers (560 miles) under the Black Sea to the Balkans and on
to central Europe. Austria agreed to join South Stream during
Putin’s visit to Vienna two days ago. EDF spokeswoman Carole
Trivi wasn’t immediately available for comment by phone.  
 Supply Discipline  
 Construction of South Stream is expected to begin in the
first half of 2012, Berlusconi said. No delays are expected,
Putin said.  
 Gazprom earlier this month started laying the Nord Stream
pipeline that will connect Russia directly to Germany via the
Baltic Sea. Putin has said transit countries such as Ukraine
need to be “disciplined” for supply disruptions to customers
in Europe.  
 Gazprom decreased deliveries to Ukraine during pricing
disputes in the five-year term of pro-western President Viktor
Yushchenko, twice leading to shortages in Europe. The Kremlin
restored gas subsidies to the country in return for keeping its
Black Sea Fleet on the Crimea until 2042 less than two months
after Viktor Yanukovych took office as Ukrainian president.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Lesmo, Italy, at
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Lucian Kim in Moscow at 
 lkim3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        