-- Medvedev to Discuss Maritime Border, Shtokman Gas Project on Norway Visit
-- Vibeke Laroi
-- 2010-04-26T13:58:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/medvedev-to-discuss-maritime-border-shtokman-gas-project-on-norway-visit.html

          
          
             President Dmitry Medvedev will
discuss Russia’s border with Norway in the energy-rich Barents
Sea, a dispute that has run for four decades, during a two-day
visit to Oslo.  
 Medvedev said the two sides can find a “reasonable
compromise” to the long-running dispute. “There’s nothing
extraordinary about it, but we have to find a solution that will
allow us to settle on two zones about which we have no
conclusive understanding,” the president said in an interview
with Norwegian newspaper Aftenposten.  
 “We have to divide not just the shelf itself, but an
exclusive economic zone,” Medvedev said in the interview, which
was posted on the Kremlin Web site.  
 Russia and Norway have been discussing their maritime
border since the early 1970s. The two countries are vying with
the U.S., Canada and others for control of resources in the
Arctic, which may hold as much as 50 percent of the world’s
undiscovered hydrocarbons, according to BP Plc.  
 Norway maintains that the border should be delimited using
the “median line” principle, contained in the United Nations
Convention on the Law of the Sea, while Russia refers to a
“sector line” decreed by the Soviet Union in 1926 that would
divide the sea along a meridian stretching from the land border
to the North Pole.  
 ‘Compromise’ Solution  
 “I think a compromise will be found tomorrow,” Russian
First Deputy Prime Minister Viktor Zubkov said in an interview.
“I can’t say it will be final, but we’re looking for approaches
and may find a compromise.”  
 Sergei Prikhodko, Medvedev’s foreign-policy aide, told
reporters last week that no border agreement would be signed
during the visit.  
 Talks will also focus on OAO Gazprom’s Shtokman gas
project, located 550 kilometers (340 miles) offshore under the
Barents Sea. Medvedev said the field will be developed in
“close cooperation” with foreign partners, including Norway’s
Statoil ASA.  
 The government is unperturbed by delays in the project and
remains interested in supplying North America and Europe with
liquefied natural gas from the Shtokman field, Medvedev said.  
 ‘Starting Point’  
 The partners need to find a “successful starting point”
for the project as energy markets recover from the recession of
2009. Whether it happens in 2010 or 2011 is not of “principal
importance,” Medvedev said.  
 The Shtokman Development AG venture is 51 percent owned by
Moscow-based Gazprom, with Total SA, Europe’s third-largest oil
company, holding 25 percent and Stavanger-based Statoil owning
24 percent. The partners said on Feb. 5 that the production
start-up will be delayed by three years until 2016, with an
investment decision on gas production planned for March 2011 and
on LNG output by the end of that year.  
 Medvedev will meet with Norway’s Prime Minister Jens
Stoltenberg and King Harald V. He will also speak with Norwegian
business leaders before departing for Denmark tomorrow.  
 In Oslo, Medvedev will also oversee the signing of a
framework agreement on cooperation on energy efficiency and
renewable energy sources, Prikhodko said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Vibeke Laroi in Oslo at 
 vlaroi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        