-- El-Erian Favors Emerging-Market Debt as Deficits Swell in the U.S., Europe
-- Gabrielle Coppola
-- 2010-04-26T18:03:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/el-erian-favors-emerging-market-debt-as-deficits-swell-in-the-u-s-europe.html

          
          
             Fixed-income investors should take
advantage of opportunities in emerging markets as swelling
government deficits spurred by the financial crisis increase
sovereign default risk in the U.S. and Europe, according to
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed A. El-Erian  
 Short-term improvement in developed economies will be
eclipsed by slower growth and structural changes wrought by
tighter regulation and bigger budget deficits once the effects
of government stimulus fades, El-Erian, chief executive officer
at Pimco, told an audience at the Milken Global Institute today.  
 The International Monetary Fund said last week that
emerging nations will expand 6.3 percent this year, nearly
triple the pace of advanced economies, as Greece appealed to the
organization and the European Union for a financial lifeline to
close its budget deficit. Investors are still adapting to the
idea that European debt is a credit risk and not just an
interest-rate risk, El-Erian said.  
 “An emerging market like Brazil can be one-third as risky
as an investment-grade country like Greece,” El-Erian said.
“That is a fundamental change, and it’s a very exciting time
for investors.”  
 The IMF last week called rising government debt one of the
biggest threats to the strengthening world economy.  
 The U.S. has “a window in the next year” to address a
persistently high unemployment rate before it finds itself
forced into a corner, with only unattractive options to generate
jobs such as new economic stimulus that would expand the deficit
or raising taxes and cutting public-sector jobs, El-Erian said.  
 “If we don’t strike a balance quickly, we’re going to be
stuck with our corner solutions for the next four to five
years,” El-Erian said. “These corner solutions have massive
unintended consequences for the economy.”  
 Financial regulation being debated in Congress is a
“natural reaction” to market failures that triggered the
financial crisis, El-Erian said. The new rules favor stability
over efficiency and innovation.  
 Pimco, which manages the world’s largest bond fund, is
based in Newport Beach, California.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        