-- Enel May Become First Foreign Owner of Stake in a Nuclear Plant in Russia
-- Yuriy Humber
-- 2010-04-26T15:42:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/enel-signs-preliminary-accord-with-inter-rao-on-kaliningrad-nuclear-plant.html

          
          
             Enel SpA may become the first
foreign owner of shares in a Russian nuclear power plant after
Italy’s biggest utility signed an accord on the Baltic Power
Plant project today.  
 Enel will decide on joining the project, run by OAO Inter
RAO UES, Russia’s power export and import monopoly, by July next
year, Russia’s government said. Italian Prime Minister Silvio
Berlusconi and his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin oversaw
the signing outside Milan.  
 Enel is seeking to expand in eastern Europe to tap growth
in emerging economies and after Italy forced the company to cede
its electricity market monopoly in the home market. Inter RAO
has emerged as Russia’s “state champion” in the electricity
market, with plans to diversify in power generation and trading,
the utility said at its 2008 annual meeting.  
 The project, to be built in Russia’s Kaliningrad exclave on
the Baltic Sea, is designed to have two reactors, each with a
capacity of 1,170 megawatts, Moscow-based Inter RAO, a unit of
the state nuclear holding company Rosatom Corp., said in an e-
mailed statement. The reactors are expected to be commissioned
in 2016 and 2018, the company said.  
 “Enel will study the technical, economic, legal and other
aspects of the project to decide whether it will take part as a
co-investor,” Inter RAO said. Enel and Inter RAO may jointly
sell the electricity in Russia and third countries, according to
the statement.  
 In Russia, the Italian company controls the OAO Enel OGK-5
thermal power generator and stakes in the SeverEnergia venture
to develop two gas fields with Eni SpA and OAO Gazprom, the
world’s biggest producer of the fuel.  
 The Russian government owns all of Rosatom, which in turn
controls 57 percent of Inter RAO. Rosatom has orders to build
nuclear reactors in Bulgaria, China, India and Iran, as well as
Russia.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Milan via the Moscow newsroom
at   ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        