-- Merkel Tells Greece That Bailout Isn't a Done Deal
-- Tony Czuczka
-- 2010-04-27T08:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/merkel-hits-campaign-trail-warning-that-greek-bailout-not-yet-guaranteed.html

          
          
             German Chancellor Angela Merkel hit
the campaign trail with a warning to Greece and the rest of the
euro region that a bailout of the debt-stricken nation isn’t a
done deal.  
 “I’ve said for weeks that Greece must do its homework
first,” Merkel said late yesterday, drawing applause from an
audience in the town of Soest in North Rhine-Westphalia, where
state elections are due on May 9. She said that while Germany is
prepared to release funds for debt-stricken Greece, “first I
want to see the program.”  
 Greece is paying the price for Merkel’s bid to keep her
coalition in control of Germany’s most populous state and ease
voters’ anger about having to help fund a $60 billion bailout.
Greek bonds plunged yesterday as Germany’s reluctance to
guarantee funds stoked concern that a rescue package co-financed
by the euro region and the International Monetary Fund could
still fall apart.  
 Greece has 8.5 billion euros ($11.4 billion) of bonds coming
due next month after the state election and the extra yield that
investors demand to hold its 10-year bonds over German bunds
jumped 93 basis points to 652 basis points yesterday. Yields
stayed near the highest since at least 1998 today amid mounting
concern Greece will ask investors to accept delayed or reduced
payments on its debt.  
 German ‘Charade’  
 “Greece burns as Germany fiddles,” said Mehernosh
Engineer, a credit strategist with BNP Paribas in London, citing
“no firm commitments” by Germany to aid Greece. “The charade
of conditionality continues as markets start to price a bigger
probability of debt restructuring.”  
 Merkel dwelled on Greece at yesterday’s rally as her
Christian Democrats defend their hold on the state, saying any
rescue would have the aim of supporting the euro rather than
bailing out a Greek state that lived beyond its means.  
 “We’re not doing this because we believe Greece needs
help,” she said. “We’re doing it because we’re interested in
the euro’s stability. We can’t idly stand by when our currency
comes under threat.”  
 The euro has dropped 7 percent against the dollar this year
and fell 0.3 percent to $1.3349 at 10 a.m. in Frankfurt.  
 In Greece, Prime Minister George Papandreou is scheduled to
brief lawmakers on the economic outlook as transport workers go
on strike. The ADEDY civil service union will stage a rally at
6.30 p.m. and GSEE, Greece’s biggest private-sector union, will
decide on whether to go on strike.  
 Majority at Risk  
 Polls in recent weeks show Merkel’s Christian Democrats and
their Free Democratic allies at risk of losing their governing
majority in North Rhine-Westphalia. The two parties, which also
underpin Merkel’s national government, fell short of a majority
with support of 46 percent in an April 21 Forsa poll for Stern
magazine. The margin of error was plus or minus 3 percentage
points.  
 A defeat for Merkel might wipe out her coalition’s majority
in the upper house of the national parliament and hamper her
government’s efforts to cut taxes and extend the life of German
nuclear power plants.  
 Merkel told the rally she wants Greece to agree to several
years of budget cuts before releasing any German aid. “Greece
has put savings measures into effect this year, but one year
won’t be enough” to restore confidence in the financial
markets, she said.  
 Negotiating Terms  
 Greek Finance Minister George Papaconstantinou was
negotiating terms of the aid during a meeting of counterparts
from the world’s biggest nations in Washington. With Greece
facing 8.5 billion euros of bonds maturing in May, with the
first redemption due May 19, finance ministers yesterday sought
a swift resolution of the talks amid concern any delay may
trigger a further sell-off and spread to other markets.  
 European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet said
he’s certain aid talks for Greece won’t drag on.  
 “I’m confident that the negotiations” regarding the aid
package “will conclude soon,” Trichet said at an event in New
York yesterday.  
 The German government will seek “fast-track”
parliamentary approval for Greek aid that may begin next week
once the IMF has finished its review, German Finance Minister
Wolfgang Schaeuble said after briefing lawmakers in Berlin.  
 “First I want to see the program the IMF and Greece and the
European Commission have worked out,” Merkel told the campaign
rally. “Then we’ll talk about what we have to do.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Soest, Germany at 
 aczuczka@Bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Angela Merkel, Germany's chancellor  
                       
                         
                           Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Angela Merkel, Germany's chancellor, pauses at the German federal chancellory in Berlin, on April 26, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Angela Merkel, Germany's chancellor, pauses at the German federal chancellory in Berlin, on April 26, 2010. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
