-- Estonia May Get Control of Airline Through Rights Offering, Official Says
-- Ott Ummelas
-- 2010-04-26T14:28:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/estonia-may-get-control-of-estonian-air-in-rights-issue-official-says.html

          
          
             Estonia may take a controlling
stake in AS Estonian Air, the country’s national airline,
through a rights issue that will dilute the ownership of SAS AB
and investment bank AS Cresco, an Economy Ministry spokesman
said.  
 The Economy Ministry started talks with the Scandinavian
carrier, which holds 49 percent of Estonian Air, in December
after SAS said it would sell its foreign units. Economy
Minister Juhan Parts said last week the sides were close to an
agreement that would see the state, which holds 34 percent of
Estonian Air, take a majority stake. Cresco holds 17 percent.  
 “According to present plans, there will be a rights issue
that will increase the government’s stake,” spokesman Rasmus
Ruuda said in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg questions today.
“SAS should keep about a third” of Estonian Air, he said. The
signing of a declaration of intent between the government and
SAS will “apparently” take place this week, Ruuda said.  
 Sture Stoelen, head of investor relations at SAS, declined
to comment when contacted by telephone today. Stoelen had said
last week that the airline had not “received an offer” for the
holding. He declined to say then how much money SAS wants for
its stake.  
 Estonian Air, which operates six aircraft and has direct
routes to 20 European cities, has lost money in the past three
years and needs a “strong” strategic partner to survive, Chief
Executive Officer Andrus Aljas said last year.  
 Cresco plans to divest its holding in Estonian Air if the
government takes a controlling stake, Olev Schults, the main
owner of the investment bank, was cited as saying by newspaper
Postimees last week. “Governments have neither competencies nor
money to operate in such a demanding sector as aviation,” the
newspaper cited Schults as saying.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net 
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        