-- Ex-Antiguan Financial Regulator Ordered to U.S. for Stanford Fraud Case
-- Laurel Brubaker Calkins
-- 2010-04-26T21:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/ex-antiguan-financial-regulator-faces-charges-in-allen-stanford-fraud-case.html

          
          
             Antigua’s former top banking
regulator, Leroy King, was ordered extradited to the U.S. to
face charges he helped financier R. Allen Stanford conceal a $7
billion fraud scheme, Antigua’s top prosecutor said.  
 Director of Public Prosecutions Anthony Armstrong said that
Chief Magistrate Ivan Walters ordered King removed to the U.S.
in a decision issued today. Armstrong, who argued for the
removal, said King has 15 days to appeal the decision to the
nation’s High Court.  
 King was formerly chief executive officer of Antigua and
Barbuda’s Financial Services Regulatory Commission. He has been
under house arrest in Antigua since June, when he was indicted
by a federal grand jury in Houston for allegedly accepting
bribes from Stanford to mislead U.S. securities regulators.  
 His lawyer, Dane Hamilton Sr. of St. John’s, Antigua, did
not immediately return a call seeking comment on the court’s
ruling. Andy Laine, a spokesman for the U.S. State Department,
said he could not immediately comment.  
 U.S. prosecutors allege Stanford and his co-conspirators
took money from new investors to repay earlier investors who
bought allegedly bogus certificates of deposit from the Antigua-
based Stanford International Bank Ltd.  
 Blood Oath  
 King and Stanford took a blood oath in 2003 to support the
alleged fraud scheme, which netted King hundreds of thousands of
dollars in bribes, according to a document signed by former
Stanford chief financial officer James M. Davis when he pleaded
guilty to criminal charges in the probe last year.  
 Stanford, who is being held without bail pending a January
2011 trial, has denied all allegations of wrongdoing. He also
faces parallel charges in a civil enforcement action filed by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank Ltd., 09cv298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew M. Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  
          
          


  


        