-- Mexicans Are Angry and Saddened by Arizona Immigration Law, Calderon Says
-- Thomas Black
-- 2010-04-26T20:07:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/mexicans-are-angered-by-arizona-law-over-immigration-status-calderon-says.html

          
          
             Mexicans are “angered and
saddened” by an Arizona law making it a state crime to be in
the U.S. illegally, President Felipe Calderon said.  
 “The legislation doesn’t adequately guarantee respect for
people’s fundamental rights, not only of Mexicans but of
Mexican-Americans who will also be the object of persecution and
injustice,” Calderon said today in a speech in Mexico City.  
 About one-quarter of Arizona’s population is of Hispanic
descent, according to Census Bureau figures. Calderon’s comments
today follow a statement from his office last week that said the
Arizona law was an “obstacle” to finding solutions to common
problems along the U.S.-Mexico border.  
 Arizona Governor Jan Brewer signed into law last week a
bill that would require local police to check the immigration
status of anyone suspected of not having proper documentation.
The southwestern state is a transit route for drugs and people
smuggled across the border from Mexico.  
 Sonora state, which lies across the border from Arizona,
should reduce trade with the U.S. state to protest the law,
members of the opposition Party of the Democratic Revolution in
the lower house of Congress said today, according to newspaper
Excelsior. Lawmaker Domingo Rodriguez Martell called Arizona’s
new legislation racist, the newspaper said.  
 President Barack Obama on April 23 called the law
“misguided” and said it highlighted the need to overhaul
federal immigration laws. Obama said there are 11 million people
living illegally in the U.S. According to the Department of
Homeland Security, 460,000 residents live illegally in Arizona,
the seventh-highest amount among U.S. states.  
 Human Rights  
 Calderon called the legislation “opportunistic” and based
on election-year politics. He expressed concern for the human
rights of Mexicans, both legal and illegal, because of the new
law.  
 “The commercial, tourism and cultural ties between Mexico
and Arizona are severely affected by this type of legislation,”
Calderon said. “This situation, which has us angered and
saddened, at the same time drives us to keep going forward.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Black in Monterrey, Mexico, at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        