-- Lyondell, Extended Stay, Lehman, Gems TV, Cielo on the Bay: Bankruptcy
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2010-04-26T12:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/extended-stay-lehman-sues-nomura-gems-tv-cielo-on-the-bay-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             Lyondell Chemical Co. persuaded the
bankruptcy judge at an April 23 hearing to sign a confirmation
order approving the Chapter 11 reorganization plan.  
 The plan, based on a compromise negotiated with unsecured
creditors in February, was made possible by an environmental
settlement the judge approved at the same hearing.  
 The plan provides full recovery on $2.82 billion in
financing for the reorganization and $3.25 billion of pre-
bankruptcy debt that was converted into a post-bankruptcy loan
as part of the financing.  
 Unsecured creditors, offered $300 million originally, are
recovering an estimated 16.9 percent thanks to the settlement,
not counting lawsuit recoveries. While the creditors settled
with lenders who financed the leveraged buyout, they retain the
right to sue officers and directors. Creditors also keep the
ability to file preference claims against suppliers.  
 The settlement gives unsecured creditors $300 million in
cash along with stock estimated to be worth $150 million.  
 Holders of $9.45 billion in senior secured claims can
expect a 77.2 percent recovery, according to the disclosure
statement. They receive new stock plus the right to participate
in a $2.8 billion rights offering.  
 Holders of the $8.3 billion in so-called bridge loan claims
are to have a 6.3 percent dividend from receiving about 5
percent of the stock plus a share of lawsuit recoveries.  
 Unsecured creditors in a multitude of other classes will
receive nothing up to full payment, depending on the company
owing the obligation.  
 The disclosure statement estimates the midpoint value of
the reorganized enterprise at $15.2 billion. Deducting debt and
making other adjustments, the reorganized equity value is said
to be $9.94 billion. The disclosure statement estimates the
value of the new stock at a midpoint of $17.61 a share, based on
the issuance of 564 million shares.  
 As part of the settlement, unsecured creditors are dropping
a suit against lenders in which they claimed that Lyondell’s
2007 leveraged buyout included fraudulent transfers that could
be voided in bankruptcy.  
 At the April 23 hearing, Lyondell also received approval
from the bankruptcy judge to settlement $5.5 billion in
environmental claims. Lyondell will transfer specified
environmentally impaired properties it owns to a trust along
with cash to perform a cleanup.  
 The U.S. government and seven states now have approved
unsecured claims aggregating $1.18 billion. In addition,
Lyondell is contributing $108.4 million cash to the trust and
paying another $61.6 million to settle other claims. To read
Bloomberg coverage of the hearing, click here.  
 Lyondell and affiliate Equistar Chemicals LP, together
making up the third-largest independent producer of chemicals,
filed under Chapter 11 in January 2009, listing assets of $33.8
billion and debt totaling $30.3 billion. The parent
LyondellBasell Industries AF filed under Chapter 11 in April
2009.  
 The case is Lyondell Chemical Co., 09-10023, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Updates  
 Centerbridge-Paulson is Extended Stay Stalking Horse  
 The bankruptcy judge formally approved bidding procedures
proposed by Extended Stay Inc. for an auction on May 27 to
determine who will finance the hotel chain’s reorganization
plan.  
 The court’s April 23 order and the approved auction rules
say the auction will terminate on May 27 and no bids will be
accepted later. In addition, the company itself is precluded
from negotiating a higher offer after the auction unless the
bankruptcy judge rules that Extended Stay’s reorganization plan
won’t be confirmed.  
 Extended Stay, an operator of more than 680 long-term
lodging properties in 44 states, will pay as much as $20 million
in expense reimbursement if the winner of the auction never is
able to complete the transaction because the plan isn’t
confirmed. The right to a fee doesn’t become firm until the
bankruptcy court approves the disclosure statement approving the
reorganization plan.  
 The preceding month has seen a succession of bids and
counter bids from Starwood Capital Group LLC on one side and
Centerbridge Partners LP and Paulson & Co. on the other. They
successively topped and retopped the other’s offer for the
distinction of being the so-called stalking horse at auction.  
 Initially, Centerbridge and Paulson had the best proposal
entailing a $450 million investment. Starwood raised the bid in
March to $905 million. To make their proposal more attractive,
Centerbridge and Paulson this month countered by matching the
$905 million while deleting a $19.5 million fee and other
Starwood provisions. Centerbridge and Paulson also made a $150
million deposit.  
 When the dust settled, the bankruptcy judge ratified
Extended Stay’s selection of Centerbridge and Paulson to be the
so-called stalking horse with the first bid at auction.
Competing bids are due initially by May 17, preceding the May 27
auction.  
 Again to insure there is no mistake, the bid procedures
explain several times how anyone who does not make an initial
offer by May 17 won’t be permitted to participate in the
auction.  
 The bidding procedures also have elaborate rules for
deciding who has the best bid. After deciding who made the
highest or best offer at auction, Extended Stay will modify the
Chapter 11 plan and hold a June 17 hearing for approval of the
revised disclosure statement explaining the plan. Extended Stay
intends to hold a confirmation hearing for approval of the plan
not later than July 22.  
 Extended Stay’s Chapter 11 petition in June 2009 listed
assets of $7.1 billion against debt totaling $7.6 billion,
including $4.1 billion in mortgage loans and $3.3 billion in 10
different mezzanine loans.  
 Based in Spartanburg, South Carolina, Extended Stay says
it’s the largest operator of mid-priced extended stay hotels in
the U.S. The properties are almost all managed by non-filed
affiliate HVM LLC.  
 The case is In re Extended Stay Inc., 09-13764, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  
 Lehman Sues Nomura on Terminated Swaps  
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., the holding company for the
liquidating broker, filed papers accusing affiliates of Nomura
Holdings Ltd. of filing claims based on “egregious inflation”
of the amounts owing derived from calculations that were
“commercially unreasonable” and “divorced from economic
reality.”  
 As recited in the three bankruptcy court filings on April
23, Lehman is responding to six claims by subsidiaries of Tokyo-
based Nomura seeking $1 billion under swap agreements terminated
as a consequence of Lehman’s bankruptcy.  
 Lehman says that just days before bankruptcy, Nomura
calculated that it owed Lehman $484 million on the swaps in
question. Although the calculation of the amount owing was to be
performed as of the date of bankruptcy, Lehman says that within
a month of bankruptcy Nomura claimed that Lehman owed it a net
of $217 million on the swaps.  
 Lehman is seeking a ruling that Nomura improperly
calculated the claims. In addition, Lehman wants the bankruptcy
court to enter judgment against Nomura to pay the bankrupt
estate the amount owing Lehman on the terminated swaps.  
 The dispute is scheduled for a first hearing in bankruptcy
court on June 16.  
 In other developments, Lehman was given authority by the
bankruptcy judge on April 22 to attempt to force a resolution of
derivative and swap agreements where there are disputes about
Lehman’s rights.  
 Supported by the creditors’ committee, Lehman is permitted
to buy up enough notes so it can force the liquidation of
collateral in particular transactions. The rights of indenture
trustees and other parties to object that Lehman isn’t acting
properly in buying up notes are preserved. To read about
Lehman’s motion, click here to see the April 1 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  
 The transactions at issue involve so-called flip clauses in
swap agreements where collateral ordinarily would go first to a
Lehman subsidiary as the swap counterparty. As a result of the
flip clause, the bankruptcy of the swap counterparty or an
affiliate calls for the collateral to go first to noteholders
and only to Lehman after the noteholders were fully paid.  
 The bankruptcy judge ruled in favor of Lehman in January
when he said that the flip clause in one of the transactions
violates a provision in bankruptcy law prohibiting so-called
ipso facto clauses where someone loses rights simply for filing
in bankruptcy or becoming insolvent.  
 To read about the January decision regarding flip
transactions, click here and look for the Advance Sheets item in
the Feb. 1 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 Lehman filed a Chapter 11 plan that projects holding
company creditors will recover 14.7 percent. The estimates for
the Lehman Commercial Paper and the Lehman Brothers Special
Financing subsidiaries are 44.2 percent and 24.1 percent,
respectively. For more on the Lehman disclosure statement, click
here for the April 15 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. For more
about the plan, click here for the March 16 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  
 The Lehman holding company filed under Chapter 11 in New
York on Sept. 15, 2008, and sold office buildings and the North
American investment banking business to London-based Barclays
Plc one week later. The Lehman brokerage operations went into
liquidation on Sept. 19, 2008,in the same court. The brokerage
is in the control of a trustee appointed under the Securities
Investor Protection Act.  
 The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, while the liquidation
proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the
brokerage operation is Securities Investors Protection Corp. v.
Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District New York (Manhattan).  
 Sterling Mining Auction May Pay Creditors in Full  
 Sterling Mining Co., a silver mining company from Coeur
d’Alene, Idaho, brought a top bid of $24 million at auction last
week, an amount that “possibly” would pay creditors in full,
according to a bankruptcy court filing by the company. There may
be cash remaining for distribution to shareholders, the filing
said.  
 The winning bidder was Silver Opportunity Partners LLC. The
buyer has the option of taking all the stock in the company
after confirmation of a Chapter 11 plan.  
 With the advent of a sale that may pay creditors in full,
the company withdrew the reorganization plan that was on file
and said it would file another.  
 The initial bid when the auction process began was $11.7
million.  
 Sterling filed for Chapter 11 reorganization in March 2009
in its hometown, listing assets of $31.9 million and liabilities
totaling $14.9 million in financial statements for the third
quarter of 2008.  
 The case is In re Sterling Mining Co., 09-20178, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Idaho (Coeur d’Alene).  
 Magic Brands Sets May 10 Sale-Procedures Hearing  
 Magic Brands LLC, the parent of the Fuddruckers and Koo Koo
Roo restaurant brands, scheduled a May 10 hearing where the
bankruptcy court in Delaware will decide on procedures for the
auction and sale of the business.  
 The company filed under Chapter 11 on April with a contract
for sale to Travistock Group for $24 million. The bankruptcy
court last week gave interim approval for $13.8 million in
financing from a promised loan of $14 million from Wells Fargo
Capital Finance Inc.  
 After 24 locations close, Austin, Texas-based Magic Brands
will have more than 85 company-owned Fuddruckers restaurants in
operation in 11 states. There are 13 Koo Koo Roo stores in
California. Of the company-operated stores, 70 are leased and
the remainder owned.  
 Revenue declined to $144 million in fiscal 2009 from $152
million the previous year. The secured lender is owed $23.5
million, according to a court filing. Magic Brands’ owner is
owed more than $10 million on subordinated debts.  
 The petition says assets are less than $10 million while
debt is less than $50 million. The Koo Koo Roo stores were in
bankruptcy previously. Owned by Prandium Inc., they were sold to
Magic Brands through Chapter 11 in 2004.  
 The 135 Fuddruckers stores in 32 states owned by
franchisees aren’t in the bankruptcy.  
 The case is In re Magic Brands LLC, 10-11310, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Landry’s Buying Oceanaire at Confirmation Today  
 Oceanaire Inc. has a confirmation hearing today in the U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Dallas where the restaurant operator will
ask the judge to approve the Chapter 11 plan and approve the
sale of the business to Landry’s Restaurants Inc.  
 There were no other bids at auction April 13. Landry’s will
pay $16.8 million of secured debt in full plus $6.6 million for
distribution to unsecured creditors and others.  
 The disclosure statement tells unsecured creditors with
$4.3 million in claims how they should recover 80 percent under
the plan.  
 Oceanaire was operating 16 high-end seafood restaurants
around the U.S. on filing for Chapter 11 reorganization in July.
The petition said assets and debt were both between $10 million
and $50 million.  
 The case is In re The Oceanaire Texas Restaurant Co. LP,
09-34262, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District Texas
(Dallas).  
 Watch List  
 Debt Structure of HD Supply Untenable, Says Moody’s  
 HD Supply Inc., the wholesale supply business that Home
Depot Inc. sold to private investors for $8.5 billion in August
2007, has a “a long-term untenable debt structure,” in the
judgment of Moody’s Investors Service.  
 Consequently, Moody’s issued a downgrade for the second
time in just over six months. The new corporate grade is Caa2,
down another notch.  
 Although the company obtained a 19-month extension on the
maturity of $2.6 billion of debt, Moody’s noted that HD Supply
now has $5 billion of obligations maturing in 2014. As a result,
Moody’s believes that a “capital restructuring will be needed
over the longer term.”  
 HD Supply had a $514 million net loss in the Jan. 31 fiscal
year on net sales of $7.42 billion. Sales in fiscal 2010 were
down 24 percent from fiscal 2009.  
 HD Supply has some 800 locations throughout the U.S. and
Canada.  
 The purchasers in the leveraged buyout were Carlyle Group,
Bain Capital LLC, and Clayton, Dubilier & Rice.  
 Default  
 Green Valley Ranch Misses First-, Second-Lien Payments  
 Casino operator Green Valley Ranch Gaming LLC didn’t make
principal or interest payments within the grace period on first-
and second-lien debt, according to Moody’s Investors Service.
The payments were originally due in March.  
 Moody’s had said a year ago that the “capital structure is
not sustainable in its current form.”  
 A half owner of Green Valley is an affiliate of Station
Casinos Inc. In its own Chapter 11 case, Station is in the
process of setting up an action to decide who will buy the
businesses to finance a reorganization.  
 The Green Valley casino caters to the so-called Las Vegas
“locals” market. Annual revenue is about $245 million,
according to Moody’s.  
 Briefly Noted  
 DirecTV on Gems TV Unsecured Creditors’ Committee  
 Gems TV (USA) Ltd., a television retailer of gemstone
jewelry products that filed under Chapter 11 on April 5, has an
official unsecured creditors’ committee with seven members. One
is DirecTV Inc. Gems TV listed DirecTV as having an unsecured
claim for almost $2.7 million. The petition said assets are less
than $50 million while debt is expected to exceed $100 million.
The Reno, Nevada-based company shut down before the Chapter 11
filing and intends on selling the assets. The case is In re Gems
TV (USA) Ltd., 10-11158, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  
 New Filing  
 Cielo on the Bay Condo in Miami Files Chapter 11  
 The Cielo on the Bay condominium project in North Bay
Village, Florida, is typical of single-asset real estate
bankruptcies in the current recession.  
 The project has 35 units, some with view of Miami Beach and
Biscayne Bay. The owner said it was unable to sell units because
the construction lender refused to allow price reductions for
purchasers who already signed contracts.  
 The company believes it could have repaid most if not all
of the secured debt were it able to reduce prices to “realistic
market levels.” The company also says its financing problems in
part are due to the refusal of the lender to allow leasing or
rent-to-own programs.  
 The construction loan, with $14 million now owing, was
sold. The owner believes the new holder of the loan will say the
remaining collateral is worth $8 million.  
 The case is In re Harbour East Development Ltd., 10-20733,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District Florida (Miami).  
 Bank Failures  
 Seven Banks Fail, Boosting This Year’s U.S. Total to 57  
 Seven Illinois banks were taken over on April 23 by
regulators. Their branches were transferred to other banks. To
read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  
 The new failures, bringing the year’s total to 57, will
cost the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. $974 million.  
 There were 140 bank failures in 2009, five times more than
2008. The failures in 2009 were the most since 1992 when 179
institutions were taken over by regulators.  
 Advance Sheets  
 Malpractice Suit Within Bankruptcy Core Jurisdiction  
 Eighteen months after a company confirmed a Chapter 11 plan
in Texas, plaintiffs filed suit in New York state court,
alleging state law claims that their investments were harmed by
the individual defendants who were among the company’s officers
and directors.  
 The defendants had the suit transferred to the U.S.
District Court in Brooklyn, New York, which in turn transferred
the case to Texas at the defendants’ request.  
 The opinion by U.S. District Judge Eric Vitaliano found
that the suit was within the federal courts’ bankruptcy
jurisdiction on several grounds.  
 To begin with, Vitaliano concluded that the suit was at
least “related to” the bankruptcy case because it gave rise to
indemnification obligations by the formerly bankrupt company.  
 Vitaliano went on to rule that the suit also fits within
so-called “arises in” bankruptcy jurisdiction because the suit
in part involved professional malpractice claims based on
actions in the administration of the bankruptcy case. He also
based “arises in” jurisdiction on the need for interpreting
orders of the bankruptcy court in the Chapter 11 case.  
 Vitaliano therefore sent the case to Texas, leaving the
district judge in Texas to decide if the case should be referred
to the bankruptcy judge. Vitaliano also said he would have found
jurisdiction in the federal court if it were only “related to”
the bankruptcy.  
 The case is Lothian Cassidy LLC v. Ranson, 10-0420, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District New York (Brooklyn).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        