-- Fed May Keep Rates Low as Tight Credit Impedes Businesses
-- Vivien Lou Chen
-- 2010-04-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/fed-may-keep-interest-rates-low-as-tight-credit-impedes-small-businesses.html

          
          
             Michael Chapman, the owner of a
building company with 20 employees in Santa Fe, New Mexico, has
had trouble getting a bank loan and this month he let Kansas
City Federal Reserve Bank President Thomas Hoenig know it.  
 Tight credit in commercial real estate “has really made it
impossible for banks to lend to people like me,” the president
of Chapman Homes said during a question period after an April 7
speech by Hoenig. Chapman said his company, unable to get a loan
to hire 15 workers while big Wall Street firms get record
bailouts, is “too small to succeed.”  
 Owners of small businesses across the country are telling
Fed officials that they would expand and hire more workers if
only they could get financing. Policy makers at the end of a
two-day meeting starting tomorrow may cite scant lending as a
drag on demand as they affirm a pledge to keep interest rates
low for an “extended period.”  
 “It’s going to be a slow recovery to the extent it depends
on banks opening up their lending,” said William Ford, a former
Atlanta Fed president now at Middle Tennessee State University
in Murfreesboro. “Lenders have gone to the extreme of being
very tight, very cautious, as they recover from serious earnings
problems.”  
 The Federal Open Market Committee is scheduled to issue a
statement on April 28.  
 Confidence among U.S. small businesses fell in March to the
lowest level since July 2009 as executives grew more concerned
about earnings and sales, the National Federation of Independent
Business reported April 13. More borrowers reported credit hard
to get and good borrowers saw little reason to expand borrowing,
said William Dunkelberg, the group’s chief economist.  
 Out of Woods  
 Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said in an April 7 speech that
while a U.S. economic recovery is under way, “we are far from
being out of the woods,” in part because of tight credit.  
 “Bank lending remains very weak, threatening the ability
of small businesses to finance expansion and new hiring,”
Bernanke told the Dallas Regional Chamber.  
 Commercial and industrial loans at U.S. commercial banks
declined by $900 million during the week ended April 14 to $1.27
trillion, according to Fed data released on April 23. In March,
such loans hit the lowest point in more than two years.  
 Revolving debt, such as credit cards, which are often used
to finance small businesses, fell by $9.4 billion in February,
the biggest decline in three months, according to Fed
statistics.  
 ‘Extremely Weak’  
 “Currently, there is little evidence that financial
institutions are significantly expanding the provision of credit
and liquidity,” Janet Yellen, president of the San Francisco
Fed said in an April 15 speech in San Francisco. “Quite the
contrary, even with very low interest rates, credit flows remain
extremely weak.”  
 The shortage of credit for small businesses will probably
slow a decline in the U.S. unemployment rate, which fell to 9.7
percent in March from 10.1 percent in October.  
 Small companies generated about two thirds of the new jobs
over the past 15 years, Cleveland Fed President Sandra Pianalto
said in February. During recoveries from the 1990 and 2001
recessions, firms with fewer than 20 employees expanded their
payrolls more than any other firms, she said.  
 The FOMC this week will probably affirm its view that the
recovery may not be strong enough to reduce unemployment
rapidly, said former Fed Governor Lyle Gramley, a senior
economic adviser at Potomac Research Group in Washington.  
 Gotten an Earful  
 While speaking to executives across the U.S., Fed officials
have gotten an earful from small business owners hungry for
financing.  
 In Dayton, Ohio, Bernard Jergens, general manager of
Breckenridge Financial Supplies, which sells automated teller
machine supplies, told Pianalto in February his firm was forced
to scramble for funding after its lender declined a refinancing
application. Businesses “have to work harder to find a
solution” to meager credit, he said to Pianalto.  
 In Santa Fe, Richard Czoski, 57, Santa Fe Railyard
Community Corp’s executive director and a developer for 25
years, told Hoenig that “conservative” real estate projects
can’t obtain financing.  
 “There is an unwillingness on the part of local banks to
lend,” he said in an interview. “Even reasonable projects
can’t get financing.”  
 In Alexandria, Virginia, Diane Palmintera, president of
Innovation Associates, told Fed Governor Elizabeth Duke on April
19 that start-up firms -- hurt by “contracting venture
capital” and declining home equity -- are pressed for loans.
“They are increasingly challenged even more than existing small
businesses,” she said.  
 Never Defaulted  
 Chapman, 57, who’s never defaulted on a loan, says that
with financing he’d add 15 or more jobs and build five or six
more houses. “Anything called a commercial real estate loan is
virtually unavailable,” he said in an interview.  
 His concern was echoed last week by New Mexico Governor
Bill Richardson, who wrote Bernanke and other banking regulators
that the “overzealous” application of rules may be choking off
lending. Community banks didn’t cause the financial crisis but
they “are feeling increased pressure to restrict lending by
federal financial regulators in the field,” he said.  
 Some banks may be reluctant to lend because of the large
numbers of problem loans, Hoenig said in response to Chapman.
“The banks are going to be more cautious,” he said.  
 ‘Problem’ Banks  
 U.S. banks reported profits of $914 million in the fourth
quarter, compared with a $38 billion loss in the year-earlier
period, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. reported. Still, the
number of “problem” banks climbed to 702 with $402.8 billion
in assets, the highest level in 17 years.  
 The policy makers’ statement will probably affirm their
March 16 description of inflation as “subdued,” Fed watchers
said. The central bank’s preferred gauge of inflation rose at a
1.3 percent annual rate in February, below the Fed’s longer-run
goal of 1.7 percent to 2 percent.  
 In assessing the economy, the FOMC may be “heartened” by
strength in the housing market and a firming in financial
markets, said Gregory Hess, a former Fed economist who’s now
dean of the faculty at Claremont McKenna College in Claremont,
California. He is a member of the Shadow Open Market Committee,
a group that critiques Fed policy.  
 Gross domestic product grew at a 3.4 percent annual pace in
the first quarter after increasing at a 5.6 percent rate in the
last three months of 2009, according to the median estimate of
67 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 “Credit demand has been pretty soft and that means the
economy is not going to grow rapidly or very much,” said Sung
Won Sohn, former chief economist at Wells Fargo & Co. and now an
economics professor at California State University-Channel
Islands in Camarillo, California.  
 “Sluggish growth, low inflation and weak credit demand all
translate into what Bernanke has talked about: low interest
rates for an extended period,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in St. Louis at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        