-- Ford Eyes $1.2 Billion Profit on Stronger Sales, Pricing
-- Keith Naughton
-- 2010-04-26T20:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/ford-may-post-1-billion-profit-for-fourth-straight-gain-as-discounts-cut.html

          
          
             Ford Motor Co. probably will post
earnings exceeding $1 billion tomorrow, capping its first run of
four straight quarterly profits since 2005, after Chief
Executive Officer Alan Mulally cut back on discounting.  
 First-quarter net income may have been $1.2 billion, the
average of 3 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. U.S.
deliveries surged 37 percent through March, more than twice the
industrywide increase, and buyers may have chosen costlier
options, helping generate more revenue per car.  
 “There’s a lot of momentum at Ford right now in terms of
customers’ perception of their products,” said Efraim Levy, a
Standard & Poor’s equity analyst in New York who advises holding
the shares. “We’re hitting the point where it’s time to give
them the benefit of the doubt, rather than view them with
skepticism.”  
 Mulally, 64, put rebuilding Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford’s
namesake brand at the center of his strategy for overhauling the
second-biggest U.S. automaker after he arrived from Boeing Co.
in 2006. First-quarter revenue probably rose 13 percent to $28
billion, the average estimate of 7 analysts.  
 Excluding costs and gains Ford considers one time, profit
probably was 31 cents a share, the average of 12 estimates. The
loss on that basis a year earlier was 75 cents a share. The net
loss for the period was $1.43 billion.  
 Market Share  
 Redesigned models such as the Taurus sedan helped boost
first-quarter U.S. market share to 17.4 percent through March
from 14.7 percent a year earlier, the biggest jump since 1977,
Ford has said. This year, dealers will get the new Fiesta and
Focus small cars after Ford’s reliance on trucks led to $30
billion in losses from 2006 through 2008 as fuel prices surged.  
 Ford also benefited from discounts that were the smallest
among domestic automakers, according to researcher Autodata
Corp.  
 “Ford has done a very good job of responding to changes in
the market with the products they’ve come up with,” said Brian
Johnson, a Barclays Capital analyst in Chicago who has an
“equal weight” rating on the shares. “We’re expecting a
strong first quarter from Ford.”  
 The automaker has been profitable each quarter since last
year’s April-to-June period, which included the bankruptcies of
its two domestic rivals. That quarter’s $2.26 billion in net
income was the product of gains related to debt reduction that
exceeded operating losses.  
 Profit Streak  
 Ford’s last previous stretch of four straight quarterly
profits spanned the third quarter of 2004 through the second
quarter of 2005, based on data compiled by Bloomberg. John
Stoll, a spokesman, said Ford had no comment before tomorrow’s
announcement.  
 Ford rose 25 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $14.46 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading for the highest
closing price since January 2005. The shares have almost tripled
in the past year.  
 Executive Chairman Bill Ford, 52, said shoppers are
considering Ford models in part because the automaker avoided
the government-backed bankruptcies that befell the predecessors
of General Motors Co. and Chrysler Group LLC.  
 “But if they don’t like what they see, they’ll go
elsewhere,” he said after a speech in Detroit April 15.  
 Benefit From Toyota  
 Also buoying Ford’s share is a shift in some consumers’
impressions after Toyota Motor Corp.’s recalls of more than 8
million vehicles worldwide, said Bernie McGinn, president of
McGinn Investment Management of Alexandria, Virginia, which owns
320,000 Ford shares. Toyota’s first quarter U.S. vehicle sales
rose 7.2 percent, half the industry’s 16 percent.  
 “Toyota has taken a hit to their image for automotive
excellence, and the chief beneficiary is Ford,” McGinn said.
“This is the first time in a generation that people are looking
at Ford in a really positive way.”  
 Pricing gains may have helped, too. Revenue from each
vehicle sold rose $2,041 in 2009 on new models such as the
Fusion hybrid and purchases of more-expensive features,
according to Mulally. Ford expects to see “positive net
pricing” again this year, though the gains may not be as large,
Chief Financial Officer Lewis Booth said in a Jan. 28 interview.  
 Mulally’s brand-repair strategy was financed by $23 billion
in borrowing after he joined the company. While those loans
enabled Ford to avert a Chapter 11 filing, they also added to
automotive debt that reached $34.3 billion at the end of 2009,
up from $24.2 billion a year earlier.  
 Paying Off Debt  
 “Ford has got to pay down its debt,” said Jim Hall,
principal of consultant 2953 Analytics in Birmingham, Michigan.
“And they have to weigh paying down the debt against investing
in new products.”  
 GM and Chrysler were cleansed of obligations in bankruptcy.
GM reported paying off the last $4.7 billion in U.S. loans April
21, the same day Chrysler posted a first-quarter operating
profit of $143 million.  
 Ford can’t risk complacency and arrogance as it tries to
complete a turnaround, according to Bill Ford. Ten years ago
today, Ford shares closed at $52.84. First-quarter U.S. sales
totaled 1.08 million in 2000. This year’s tally was 441,708.  
 “I’ve seen this movie before,” Bill Ford said in Detroit
on April 22. “I know how quickly self-satisfaction can turn
into self-destruction.”  
 For now, Ford reaps rewards for going it alone and not
taking a government rescue, McGinn said. Of 16 analysts covering
the shares, 8 say buy, 6 advise holding and 2 recommend selling,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In January 2009, 1
analyst had a buy rating while 8 said hold and 3 said sell.  
 “Ford just seems like it can do no wrong,” said John
Wolkonowicz, an analyst at consultant IHS Global Insight in
Lexington, Massachusetts. “The company is doing very well, and
the stock is doing very well.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Ford Motor Co. Taurus sedan is displayed at the 2010 North American International Auto Show in Detroit in this file photo. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
