-- French Banks Face Funding Gap to Meet Liquidity Rules, Credit Suisse Says
-- Fabio Benedetti-Valentini
-- 2010-04-26T12:17:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/french-banks-face-funding-gap-to-meet-liquidity-rules-credit-suisse-says.html

          
          
             BNP Paribas SA, Societe Generale SA
and Credit Agricole SA may face an estimated 565 billion-euro
($753 billion) “funding gap” to meet a 12-month liquidity
benchmark proposed by regulators, Credit Suisse Group AG said.  
 “Net stable funding ratio is French banks’ key concern
under Basel III,” Guillaume Tiberghien, a London-based analyst
at Credit Suisse, wrote in a note to investors today. Proposed
regulations on capital, derivatives clearing and the
International Monetary Fund’s plans to tax banks could weigh on
French lenders’ earnings more than at European rivals,
Tiberghien said.  
 The Committee on Banking Supervision in Basel, Switzerland,
which sets benchmarks for lenders in 27 countries and
territories, is drafting rules on capital and liquidity
following the worst financial crisis in 70 years. Under
liquidity rules proposed by the Basel Committee, banks would
have to maintain a “net stable funding ratio” of 100 percent,
meaning they would need an amount of longer-term loans or
deposits equal to their financing needs for 12 months. This
would require that some short-term funding be replaced by
longer-term debt.  
 France’s top three banks would have a net stable funding
ratio of 71 percent based on their 2009 balance sheets,
Tiberghien said. “French banks’ response to Basel III proposals
has been very negative, which in our view is one of the reasons
why investors have grown nervous,” Tiberghien said.  
 Shares Decline  
 BNP Paribas, France’s largest bank, has declined 3 percent
so far this year while Societe Generale, France’s second-largest
bank by market capital, has slid 11 percent. That compares with
the 2.8 percent gain in 2010 at the 52-member Bloomberg Europe
Banks and Financial Services Index.  
 Additional funding costs may cut the three largest French
banks’ earnings by about 6 percent if the net stable funding
ratio is introduced, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc.’s London-based
analyst Jean-Pierre Lambert said in a note yesterday. Both BNP
Paribas and Societe Generale had an estimated net stable funding
ratio at 79 percent while Credit Agricole’s liquidity ratio was
at 81 percent in the fourth quarter, according to KBW estimates.  
 “Investors have penalized French banks on concerns over
Greece, taxation and tighter regulations, in particular on
liquidity,” Lambert said. “We think market concerns are
overdone.”  
 Separately, the French banks had $75 billion of lending
related with Greece at the end of December, compared with $45
billion for German banks, according to Bank for International
Settlements’s data published last week.  
 “French banks’ exposure to Greece has been a factor in the
share-price weakness, and, in our view, also presents a buying
opportunity,” Lambert said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        