-- Global Funds Rethink China, India Plans, Morgan Stanley's Pickerell Says
-- Bei Hu
-- 2010-04-26T22:56:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/fund-managers-rethink-china-india-plans-morgan-stanley-s-pickerell-says.html

          
          
             Global fund managers are reviewing
plans in China and India as slowing sales and high costs curb
expansion in the world’s two most populous countries, said Blair
Pickerell, Asia head of Morgan Stanley Investment Management.  
 Funds operating in or planning to enter China are being
frustrated by an inability to control local ventures, slowing
sales and strained relationships with Chinese partners,
Pickerell said at the Fund Forum Asia in Hong Kong last week.
India has disappointed because of the retail nature of its fund
market, the dominance of money market funds, regulatory changes,
and high costs to build up brand recognition, he said.  
 “I hear from a quite few companies that they’re
reconsidering their involvement in India,” he said, without
naming the fund management companies. “There’s no doubt that a
fair number of firms which entered China are scratching their
heads about what to do next while those that have yet to go in
are also trying to choose the right approach.”  
 China -- home to Asia’s second-largest stock market after
Japan and with $2.45 trillion of foreign-exchange reserves --has
enticed foreign investors ranging from ING Groep NV to HSBC
Holdings Plc to set up a presence. Yet more than seven years
after opening its fund-management industry to overseas firms,
just two of the 10 biggest asset managers in the nation of 1.3
billion people are foreign-invested, according to data from
Shanghai-based consulting firm Z-Ben Advisors Ltd.  
 The reevaluation of the market comes as global head offices
become increasingly intolerant of short-term losses and costs
involved in building up the businesses, Pickerell said.  
 Joint Ventures  
 Foreign investors don’t have to form a venture with local
partners to tap India’s fund market and have less of a language
barrier there, though they are finding that “profit somehow
takes too many years to roll in,” Pickerell said.  
 Sales of money market funds, which are less popular in
Western countries, dominate in India, he said. Revenue is also
constrained by the country’s ban on front-end loaded fees, which
are levied at the initial purchase of the fund.  
 Pickerell was one of the earliest champions for foreign
fund houses to expand into China. Under his chairmanship, JF
Funds Ltd., a unit of JPMorgan Chase & Co., advised China’s
Huaan Fund Management Co. on setting up China’s first open-ended
fund and held talks with the Shanghai-based asset manager about
a joint venture in 2001.  
 He oversaw the establishment of HSBC Holdings Plc’s China
fund venture in 2004 as chief executive of the British bank’s
asset management arm in Asia. Pickerell joined Morgan Stanley in
June 2007, before the investment bank bought into Shenzhen-based
Morgan Stanley Huaxin Fund Management Co. in 2008.  
 Minority Stakes  
 China’s mutual fund industry expanded to $392 billion
managed in 556 funds at the end of last year, from $1.5 billion
in five funds in 1998, according to Z-Ben. Thirty-three of the
country’s 60 mutual fund houses are partly owned by foreign
investors, Z-Ben data showed.  
 Harvest Fund Management Co., part-owned by Deutsche Bank AG,
and Bank of Communications Schroder Fund Management Co. were the
only foreign-invested companies among the country’s 10 largest
mutual fund houses, which controlled half of industry assets at
the end of the first quarter, according to Z-Ben data.  
 Foreign firms are limited to taking minority stakes in
ventures with local partners and they therefore bear potential
reputational risk as the ventures are run largely by their
Chinese partners, said Pickerell. Chinese partners are often
more concerned with short-term success, he said.  
 Fund sales in China have slowed after the Shanghai
Composite Index has fallen by about half since its peak in
October 2007. Initial public offerings of mutual funds this year
raised an averaged 2.09 billion yuan ($306 million) through last
week, compared with the 10.7 billion yuan for those started in
2007, Z-Ben said.  
 QDII  
 Foreign fund managers are particularly concerned about the
cool reception given to the Qualified Domestic Institutional
Investors, or QDII, funds, Pickerell said. The QDII system was
introduced in 2007 to allow fund houses, banks and securities
firms to pool money from domestic investors to trade foreign
securities.  
 Nine QDII funds that started before the end of last year
managed $11 billion between them, less than 3 percent of total
assets in the China fund market, according to Z-Ben. The first
four QDII funds raised more than $4 billion each, whereas six of
the seven such funds started since May 2008 collected less than
$90 million each, according to the consulting firm.  
 Fund managers are hard pressed to persuade Chinese
investors to buy QDII funds because of their earlier investment
losses and as China is leading the global economic recovery,
said Oliver Bolitho, Hong Kong-based Asia head of Goldman Sachs
Asset Management.  
 “Equities are a levered play on strong economic
performance,” said Bolitho at the same conference. “The
domestic market has got the best economic performances in the
corporate world.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        