-- Gizmodo Editor's Computers Seized Amid IPhone Flap
-- Karen Gullo
-- 2010-04-27T00:43:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/gizmodo-says-computers-seized-from-editor-who-covered-iphone-found-in-bar.html

          
          
             Gizmodo.com, the technology blog,
said law enforcement officials seized computers from the home of
Jason Chen, a staff editor who wrote about a prototype for an
Apple Inc. iPhone that had been left behind in a bar.  
 On April 23, members of California’s Rapid Enforcement
Allied Computer Team, an independent crime task force, “entered
editor Jason Chen’s home without him present, seizing four
computers and two servers,” according to a statement on
Gizmodo’s site, which is owned by Gawker Media.  
 After Gizmodo purchased the unreleased iPhone from the
person who found it, investigators want to know whether Chen’s
computers were used “as the means of committing a felony,”
according to a published copy of the search warrant. Gawker
asked police to return the machines, citing laws that protect
online journalists from having newsroom equipment seized.  
 “Under both state and federal law, a search warrant may
not be validly issued to confiscate the property of a
journalist,” Gawker Chief Operating Officer Gaby Darbyshire
wrote in a letter to law enforcers posted at Gawker’s Web site.
“We expect the immediate return of the materials that you
confiscated.”  
 The seizure revives debate over whether bloggers should be
accorded the same status as reporters who work for traditional
news outlets, said Nick Denton, founder and president of Gawker.  
 “Are bloggers journalists?,” Denton asked in an e-mail. “I
guess we’ll find out.”  
 $5,000 Payment  
 Gizmodo said it paid $5,000 for the device after it was
left at a Redwood City, California, bar by an Apple engineer
identified as Gray Powell. A patron who found the handset on a
stool and realized it was an unreleased iPhone tried to contact
Apple to return it, Gizmodo said, citing an interview with the
unidentified finder.  
 On April 19, Gizmodo gave back the phone after receiving a
letter from Bruce Sewell, the company’s general counsel, asking
for the return of a “device that belongs to Apple.”  
 Law enforcement officials don’t plan to search Chen’s
computers until they can determine the validity of Gawker’s
claim about his status as a journalist, said Stephen Wagstaffe,
chief deputy district attorney for San Mateo County, which has
jurisdiction over Redwood City, about 25 miles south of San
Francisco. That will happen in the coming days, he said.  
 “What Gizmodo is saying has been addressed to us and is
being looked at by us and the prosecutor assigned to the
investigation,” Wagstaffe said in an interview today.  
 Officer ‘Zeal’  
 If Gizmodo succeeds in showing that the conduct was
illegal under laws that shield journalists, including bloggers,
from such searches, any gathered evidence couldn’t be used in a
case against the iPhone finder, said Peter Scheer, an attorney
and executive director of the First Amendment Coalition, a
nonprofit public interest group.  
 “In their zeal to get this information, they have made
themselves extremely vulnerable,” Scheer said.  
 Wagstaffe declined to say who or what initiated the
investigation, which is being led by San Mateo County Sheriff’s
Department detectives assigned to REACT, a task force that
probes technology-related matters in Silicon Valley.  
 Any probe may focus on allegations that the person who
found the phone violated California theft laws, Wagstaffe said.  
 Chen described the seizure in a six-paragraph letter posted
on Gizmodo, which also published the search warrant inventory
provided by REACT. Chen said police kicked in his door while he
and his wife were out to dinner on April 23.  
 Search  
 “I noticed the garage door was half-open, and when I tried
to open it, officers came out and said they had a warrant to
search my house and any vehicles on the property ‘in my
control,’” Chen said. “They then made me place my hands behind
my head and searched me to make sure I had no weapons or sharp
objects on me.”  
 Chen said one of the officers in charge said the situation
might be a “misunderstanding that could be cleared up if I
answered some questions. I didn’t say anything in response.”  
 The search warrant, posted on Gizmodo, gives authority to
Detective Matthew Broad to seize property -- including
computers, cameras and storage devices -- that may have been
“used as the means of committing a felony.” The search
pertained to the “sale of photographs of the prototype phone
and/or the sale of the physical prototype of 4G Apple iPhone”
and “research conducted on Apple employee Gray Powell,”
including call records and contact lists.  
 Apple declined to comment, said Steve Dowling, a spokesman
for the Cupertino, California, company.  
 According to the inventory list, police took away Chen’s
Apple MacBook notebooks, iPad and iPhone, Dell Inc. desktop
computer, digital cameras, a Motorola Inc. phone, flash and disk
drives, a server computer, documents detailing his bank account
and credit card information and one box of his business cards.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Connie Guglielmo in San Francisco at 
 cguglielmo1@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 20 (Bloomberg) -- Apple Inc.’s next iPhone will feature a front-facing camera, metallic rim and boxier design, according to technology blog site Gizmodo.com, which said it obtained a prototype a company engineer had left at a bar in Redwood City, California. Gizmodo paid $5,000 for the device, disguised as the current 3GS model. Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
