-- Gold Little Changed After Advancing on Demand for Currency Alternatives
-- Pham-Duy Nguyen
-- 2010-04-26T18:05:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/gold-futures-fluctuate-in-new-york-as-investors-seek-currency-alternative.html

          
          
             Gold futures were little changed in
New York after climbing to a one-week high as some investors
sought an alternative to currencies.  
 The euro fell as much as 0.7 percent against the dollar as
the cost of insuring Greek government debt against default
reached a record. Gold priced in euros and Swiss francs climbed
to records.  
 “There’s still a lot of concern about the value of the
euro and that moves a lot of money into gold,” said Frank Lesh,
a trader at FuturePath Trading LLC in Chicago. “In the U.S., a
stronger dollar still brings in sellers.”  
 Gold futures for June delivery rose 30 cents to $1,154 an
ounce on the Comex in New York. Earlier, the price touched
$1,160.70, the highest level since April 16, before falling as
low as $1,151.10.  
 Concern that Greece’s mounting debt may erode the value of
the euro has dragged the 16-nation currency down 6.9 percent
against the dollar this year. Investors are also selling euros
and buying gold on speculation that other European countries may
need a bailout.  
 “The risk of a serious and contagious sovereign-debt
crisis is increasing and understandably this is leading to safe-
haven demand for gold,” Dublin-based brokerage GoldCore Ltd.
said today in an e-mailed report. “A Western European country
has not defaulted on its debt since World War II, so the
implications of such a default are momentous.”  
 Gold generally climbs when the dollar falls. Last year, the
metal rallied 24 percent when the dollar fell 4.2 percent
against a basket of six major currencies, including the euro.  
 ‘Seeking Safety’  
 “The perception now is that the U.S. is better, even
though we’ve some debt problems of our own,” said Lesh of
FuturePath. “Gold is just one of the places where Europe is
seeking safety. Investors are also buying U.S. Treasuries and
equities.”  
 In other New York markets, silver futures for July delivery
rose 14.6 cents, or 0.8 percent, to $18.369 an ounce on the
Comex. Platinum futures for July delivery gained $3.30, or 0.2
percent, to $1,745 an ounce, and palladium futures for June
delivery climbed $3.20, or 0.6 percent, to $566.40 an ounce.  
 The outlook for precious metals is “moderately positive,”
Credit Suisse Group AG said today in a report. “While we think
that platinum should continue to benefit from rising industrial
production, we expect gold and silver prices to climb only
slightly,” said Eliane Tanner, a commodity analyst.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Pham-Duy Nguyen in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        