-- Goldman Credit Risk Rises as U.S. Senate Considers Reform Bill, Swaps Show
-- Shannon D. Harrington
-- 2010-04-26T21:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/goldman-sachs-credit-swaps-climb-to-10-month-high-before-congress-grilling.html

          
          
             The cost to protect the debt of
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and two other derivatives dealers jumped for the fourth day as
the U.S. Senate considers a bill that may curb their trading
revenue.  
 Credit-default swaps on Goldman Sachs, the bank facing
fraud allegations from the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, jumped to the highest in almost a year. Contracts on
Morgan Stanley and Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit reached
the highest since August, and JPMorgan swaps climbed the most in
more than 11 weeks.  
 The legislation would damp one of Wall Street’s most
profitable businesses, in which Goldman, JPMorgan, Bank of
America, Morgan Stanley and Citigroup Inc. earned an estimated
$28 billion in revenue last year, according to filings with the
Federal Reserve and people familiar with their income sources.  
 The Senate was set to hold a test vote today on legislation
that would force the most actively traded derivatives to
exchanges or trading platforms that resemble exchanges, mandate
banks to hold more capital on other derivatives trades and
require commercial banks to wall off swaps trading desks.  
 “You’re talking about a pretty significant contributor to
earnings,” said Alexander Yavorsky, a senior analyst at Moody’s
Investors Service in New York. “If they lost a material portion
of that, it obviously wouldn’t be good. The problem with
exchange trading for dealers is that they would be giving up
profits without a concomitant decrease in risk to compensate for
it.”  
 Test Vote  
 Senator Richard Shelby, a lead negotiator on the financial-
reform bill, said Republicans will block Democrats’ efforts to
begin debate on the measure in a test vote today.  
 The derivatives provisions are part of a broader financial-
regulation bill intended to prevent a repeat of the credit
crisis that led to the failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
the near collapse of Bear Stearns Cos. and the government
bailout of insurer American International Group.  
 The legislation includes measures empowering federal
agencies to dissolve failed systemically important financial
firms to prevent their collapse from disrupting the economy.  
 JPMorgan alone could lose as much as $3 billion a year in
revenue if it doesn’t combat the move of derivatives trades to
exchanges, Morgan Stanley analysts said in a March 15 report.  
 “The banking system is on a journey to being much more
utility-like,” Mohamed A. El-Erian, chief executive officer at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said today at the Milken
Global Institute conference in Los Angeles. “What’s likely to
happen over the next few months is much more emphasis on
stability and less emphasis on efficiency and innovation.”  
 Hearing Tomorrow  
 Five-year credit-default swaps on Goldman jumped 23 basis
points to 167 basis points as of 4:35 p.m. in New York,
according to broker Phoenix Partners Group. That’s the highest
since May 2009, CMA DataVision prices show.  
 The Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations is set
to question Goldman Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lloyd
Blankfein and six current and former employees of the firm
tomorrow. The SEC says Goldman Sachs and executive director
Fabrice Tourre misled investors in a 2007 collateralized debt
obligation about the role played by hedge fund Paulson & Co.,
which bet the CDO would collapse.  
 “We didn’t have a massive short against the housing market
and we certainly did not bet against our clients,” Blankfein,
55, will tell the panel, according to a prepared text of his
remarks.  
 Goldman swaps have jumped 76 basis points since April 15,
the day before the SEC announced its fraud suit.  
 Swaps on JPMorgan climbed 17 basis points to a mid-price of
89.5 basis points, the most since Feb. 4, CMA prices show.
Morgan Stanley swaps jumped 34 to 184.5. Contracts on Merrill
rose 37 to 193 and Bank of America swaps increased 37 to 162,
CMA prices show.  
 Markit CDX Index  
 Swaps on Citigroup Inc. rose 21 basis points to a mid-price
of 183, Phoenix prices show.  
 A benchmark indicator of U.S. corporate credit risk rose to
the highest in two months.  
 Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  
 Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index Series 14, which investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, climbed 2.2 basis points to a mid-price of 91
basis points as of 5:23 p.m. in New York, according to index
administrator Markit Group Ltd.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        