-- E-mails Show Goldman's Hunt for `Easiest' Asset Firm
-- Joshua Gallu
-- 2010-04-26T23:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/goldman-sachs-abacus-e-mails-show-employees-hunt-for-easiest-asset-firm.html

          
          
             Newly disclosed Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. internal e-mails cast light on how the investment bank
devised collateralized debt obligations called Abacus, including
one at the center of a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
fraud lawsuit.  
 The e-mails show employees discussed which outside firms
would be “easiest” to work with while creating Abacus CDOs to
bet against the housing market.  
 The e-mails were released yesterday by Senator Carl Levin,
the Michigan Democrat who leads the Senate’s Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations, as the panel prepares to
question Goldman Sachs executives today. In one message, a
Goldman Sachs worker asked which outside firm would most likely
approve assets that hedge fund Paulson & Co. wanted to include
in a CDO and bet against.  
 “The way I look at it, the easiest manager to work with
should be used for our own axes,” the author wrote in December
2006, using industry jargon that can refer to the firm’s 
financial interest in a deal. The writer also expressed concern 
that two firms being considered weren’t likely to sign off on 
Paulson’s suggested assets. “They will never agree to the type 
of names [P]aulson want to use[.]”  
 The Senate committee’s investigators have pored through
about 2 million Goldman Sachs documents as lawmakers prepare to
question Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein, 55, and six
other current and former employees. They include Fabrice Tourre,
the banker at the center of the SEC’s complaint.  
 ‘Be Sensitive’  
 In one e-mail, Tourre emphasized the firm should focus on
serving Paulson to reap greater profits.  
 “We need to be sensitive of the profitability of these
trades vs. profitability of abacus,” Tourre wrote in one e-
mail, according to a copy released by Levin. “We should
prioritize the higher profit margin businesses with Paulson.”  
 The e-mail about picking the easiest manager was part of an
exchange with Tourre, according to a list of exhibits released
by the lawmaker. The author wasn’t identified.  
 In another December 2006 e-mail, Tourre discussed other
business opportunities for Abacus, outlining a strategy in which
Goldman Sachs would “‘rent’ our Abacus platform to
counterparties” that wanted to short the market.  
 The messages show “Goldman repeatedly put its own
interest and profit ahead of the interests of its clients,”
Levin said. While his committee isn’t responsible for
determining whether there was any criminal activity, it will
decide after the hearing whether to refer the matter to the
SEC or the Justice Department.  
 The SEC sued Goldman Sachs on April 16, claiming the New
York-based bank misled investors in a CDO about the role Paulson
played in assembling the deal and the fund’s intent to bet that
its underlying assets would lose value. The hedge fund, run by
billionaire investor John Paulson, wasn’t accused of wrongdoing.  
 Goldman Sachs is fighting the SEC’s claims, which it says
are “unfounded in law and fact.” In prepared testimony for
today’s hearing, Blankfein said the firm didn’t bet against
clients and didn’t “make a massive short” against the housing
market.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Senator Carl Levin, a Democrat from Michigan, speaks at a news conference in Washington, D.C. on April 26, 2010. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A nameplate for Senator Carl Levin, a Democrat from Michigan and chairman of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs committee, sits before a Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs subcommittee hearing on Wall Street and the financial crisis in Washington, D.C., on April 27, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
