-- Goldman's Blankfein Says Firm Didn't Bet Against Clients
-- Christine Harper
-- 2010-04-26T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/goldman-sachs-chief-blankfein-says-bank-didn-t-bet-against-its-customers.html

          
          
             Lloyd Blankfein, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.’s chairman and chief executive officer, will tell a
Senate committee tomorrow that the firm didn’t wager against
clients and didn’t make a big bet against the housing market.  
 “We didn’t have a massive short against the housing market
and we certainly did not bet against our clients,” Blankfein,
55, will tell the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations,
according to a prepared text of his remarks.  
 Blankfein and six other current and former Goldman Sachs
executives will testify in front of the panel about their
practices in the mortgage-securities market leading up to the
worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. The firm
faces a fraud lawsuit from the Securities and Exchange
Commission that accuses it of failing to inform investors about
the role played by a hedge fund, Paulson & Co., in the deal.  
 “As you know, ten days ago, the SEC announced a civil
action against Goldman Sachs in connection with a specific
transaction,” Blankfein will say, according to the text of his
remarks. “It was one of the worst days in my professional life,
as I know it was for every person at our firm.”  
 Blankfein will say that New York-based Goldman Sachs has
been a “client-centered firm for 140 years and if our clients
believe that we don’t deserve their trust, we cannot survive.”  
 ‘Complicated Transaction’  
 While the firm says it disagrees with the SEC’s complaint,
“I also recognize how such a complicated transaction may look
to many people,” Blankfein said in his remarks. “We have to do
a better job of striking the balance between what an informed
client believes is important to his or her investing goals and
what the public believes is overly complex and risky.”  
 Blankfein will also say that the firm favors more
transparency for the public and regulators and is supporting the
creation of clearinghouses for eligible derivatives. He also
said the firm recognizes that many in the U.S. are skeptical
about investment banks.  
 “What we and other banks, rating agencies and regulators
failed to do was sound the alarm that there was too much lending
and too much leverage in the system -- that credit had become
too cheap,” Blankfein will say, according to the remarks.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Lloyd Blankfein, chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., chats with other attendees at a speech by U.S. President Barack Obama in New York on April 22, 2010. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Thomas Hazen, a professor at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, talks with Bloomberg's Betty Liu about the potential impact of derivatives regulation on Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
     Hazen also discusses the outlook for Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief Executive Office Lloyd Blankfein testimony to a Senate subcommittee tomorrow and the Securities and Exchange Commission's lawsuit against the company. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Ron Geffner, a lawyer at Sadis & Goldberg LLP and a former U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission staff attorney, talks with Bloomberg's Betty Liu about the outlook for the SEC's fraud lawsuit against Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
     Goldman Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein and executive Fabrice Tourre, who was also sued by the SEC, are among current and former employees who will testify before a Senate panel tomorrow. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Lloyd Blankfein, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s chairman and chief executive officer, will tell a Senate committee tomorrow that the firm didn't wager against clients and didn't make a big bet against the housing market.
     "We didn't have a massive short against the housing market and we certainly did not bet against our clients," Blankfein, 55, will tell the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, according to a prepared text of his remarks. Bloomberg's Julie Hyman reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
