-- Goldman Bet Against Its Own Deals, Senate's Levin Says
-- Christine Harper
-- 2010-04-26T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/goldman-made-3-7-billion-by-betting-against-own-deals-senator-levin-says.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the most
profitable securities firm in Wall Street history, made an
estimated $3.7 billion in 2007 by placing “heavy bets” against
mortgage-linked securities, including some it created, a U.S.
senator said today.  
 Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat who leads the Senate’s
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, released e-mails and
other documents that he said show “Goldman repeatedly put its
own interest and profit ahead of the interests of its clients.”  
 The documents precede a showdown on Capitol Hill tomorrow
between Levin’s panel and seven current and former Goldman Sachs
employees. Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein, 55, and
Fabrice Tourre, 31, an executive director who was named in the
Securities and Exchange Commission’s April 16 fraud lawsuit
against the firm, are among Goldman employees set to answer
questions.  
 “To sell to customers at the same time you’re betting
against what you’re selling -- we think it’s not uncommon and we
think it ought to end,” Levin said at a briefing for reporters
today on tomorrow’s hearing. “We think there are a number of
banks engaged in similar conduct but we had to focus on one.”  
 The subcommittee estimated that Goldman Sachs generated
$3.7 billion from its short bets on a declining mortgage market
in 2007, Levin said. The figure doesn’t take into account losses
they suffered on mortgage-related securities they held, he said.  
 SEC, Justice Department  
 Levin said his committee isn’t responsible for determining
whether there was any criminal activity, although he said the
panel will decide after the hearing whether to refer the matter
to the SEC or the Justice Department.  
 Blankfein will tell the committee tomorrow that the firm
didn’t wager against clients and didn’t make a big bet against
the housing market, according to the prepared text of his
remarks.  
 “We didn’t have a massive short against the housing market
and we certainly did not bet against our clients,” Blankfein
will say, according to the text.  
 While the firm disagrees with the SEC’s complaint, “I also
recognize how such a complicated transaction may look to many
people,” Blankfein said. “We have to do a better job of striking
the balance between what an informed client believes is
important to his or her investing goals and what the public
believes is overly complex and risky.”  
 ‘Real Bad Feeling’  
 Among the evidence Levin presented today was an internal e-
mail about a March 2007 presentation to the board of directors
that describes how the firm’s mortgage derivatives desk started
the quarter with a $6 billion “long” position on BBB- rated
mortgages “and shifted the position to net short $10bn
notional.”  
 An October 2007 internal e-mail sent to Daniel Sparks, who
ran the mortgage business at the time and is among those
scheduled to testify, includes the comment “real bad feeling
across European sales about some of the trades we did with
clients. The damage this has done to our franchise is very
significant. Aggregate loss of our clients on just these 5
trades along (sic) is 1bln+.”  
 Michael Swenson, a managing director in Goldman Sachs’s
structured products group who is also to appear tomorrow,
boasted in his 2007 performance review that “I said ‘no’ to
clients who demanded that GS should ‘support the GSAMP’ program
as clients tried to gain leverage over us,” he said, referring
to the name for Goldman’s own mortgage-backed deals. “Those
were unpopular decisions but they saved the firm hundreds of
millions of dollars.”  
 Ties That Bind  
 In a September 2007 e-mail to Blankfein, an employee
describes having met with 10 or more individual “prospects”
and clients and tells Blankfein about how their attitudes differ
from institutional clients.  
 “The institutions don’t and I wouldn’t expect them to,
make any comments like ur (sic) good at making money for urself
(sic) but not us,” the e-mail said. “The individuals do
sometimes, but while it requires the utmost humility from us in
response I feel very strongly it binds clients even closer to
the firm, because the alternative of take ur (sic) money to a
firm who is an under performer and not the best, just isn’t
reasonable. Clients ultimately believe association with the best
is good for them in the long run.”  
 Goldman Sachs built a “conveyer belt” of mortgage deals
and then bet against them, Levin said, actions that he said
contributed to the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression.  
 ‘Incalculable Harm’  
 “In a number of ways they contributed to the collapse of
this economy,” Levin said. “The toxins that Goldman Sachs and
others helped inject into our financial system has done
incalculable harm.”  
 While Levin said he is ready to vote on a financial
regulation package that is set to be considered by the Senate
this week, he said he thinks it could be strengthened. He has
proposed an amendment that would help resolve the conflicts of
interest among Wall Street firms that he said are embodied in
the documents. He also endorsed banning financial firms from
engaging in so-called naked credit default swaps, or bets on a
decline in creditworthiness by parties that have no exposure to
the credit.  
 After Levin posted internal Goldman Sachs e-mails on his
website on April 24 that he said show the firm “made a lot of
money by betting against the mortgage market,” the firm
responded with more than 70 pages of e-mails and other documents
that it said showed the firm lost money on mortgages in 2008 and
that executives didn’t have any kind of consensus that the
market would fall.  
 $68 Million Bonus  
 Goldman Sachs contests the SEC’s claims that the firm
defrauded investors when selling a debt instrument tied to
mortgages by failing to inform them of the role played by hedge
fund Paulson & Co. The company said on April 24 that Levin’s
committee “cherry-picked” the evidence it released and jumped
to conclusions “even before holding a hearing.”  
 As other banks struggled throughout the financial crisis,
Goldman Sachs posted record earnings in 2007 and then set a new
record in 2009. In late 2008, following the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., the firm was allowed to convert to a
bank under the oversight of the Federal Reserve and received $10
billion of taxpayer money, which it repaid with interest about
eight months later. Blankfein, whose $67.9 million bonus in 2007
was a record for a Wall Street CEO, received no bonus in 2008
and a $9 million all-stock bonus for last year.  
 Pecora Era  
 While Levin said his committee hasn’t found any evidence
that Blankfein was himself aware of the firm’s positions on
specific deals, he said the documents show that Blankfein knew
the firm was shorting the market in 2007.  
 The interrogation of Goldman Sachs may echo Ferdinand
Pecora’s Depression-era investigation of powerful financiers
like J.P. Morgan Jr., said some historians. Levin, who has
served in the Senate for more than 30 years, and his panel have
a reputation for thorough research.  
 “Looking at this crisis, it’s hard not to agree with the
conclusion of another congressional committee, which found ‘the
result of the unregulated activities of the investment bankers
were enormous,’” Levin said in the briefing with journalists.
“That conclusion came in 1934, when the Senate looked into the
reasons for the Great Depression.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     People walk outside Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s new headquarters building at 200 West Street in New York, on April 19, 2010. Photographer: JB Reed/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Lloyd Blankfein, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s chairman and chief executive officer, will tell a Senate committee tomorrow that the firm didn't wager against clients and didn't make a big bet against the housing market.
     "We didn't have a massive short against the housing market and we certainly did not bet against our clients," Blankfein, 55, will tell the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, according to a prepared text of his remarks. Bloomberg's Julie Hyman reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Rodgin Cohen, chairman of Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, talks with Bloomberg special correspondent Willow Bay about the outlook for tomorrow's congressional testimony by current and former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. employees. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
