-- Greek Contagion Concern Spurs European Sovereign Default Risk to Record
-- Abigail Moses
-- 2010-04-26T12:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/greek-contagion-concern-spurs-european-sovereign-default-risk-to-record.html

          
          
             Greece led an increase in European
sovereign credit risk on concern the bill for bailing out the
region’s most-indebted nations will surge as they struggle to
finance swollen budget deficits.  
 Credit-default swaps on Greece soared as much as 98.5 basis
points to a record 713 and Portugal jumped 39 basis points to an
all-time high of 318, spurring the Markit iTraxx SovX Western
Europe Index of swaps on 15 governments to 117 basis points,
according to CMA DataVision. Contracts on Spain climbed 10.5
basis points to 184 and Ireland increased 16.5 to 200.  
 Portugal, Ireland and Spain are “conspicuously vulnerable”
and may need funding, according to former International Monetary
Fund chief economist and Harvard Professor Kenneth Rogoff.
Greece has asked the IMF and European governments for a $60
billion emergency aid package to help fend off default when debt
payments come due next month.  
 “On the face of it, a restructuring, a rescheduling or an
external prop for the debt looks unavoidable” for Greece, Mark
Schofield, head of interest-rate strategy at Citigroup Inc. in
London, wrote in an investor note. That “could trigger rapid
contagion that would cause a much graver problem should Spain,
Portugal and Ireland be impacted,” he wrote.  
 At 14.3 percent of gross domestic product, Ireland had the
euro region’s largest deficit last year. Greece’s was 13.6
percent, Spain’s was 11.2 percent and Portugal’s 9.4 percent.
The shortfalls as a share of gross domestic product were more
than three times the European Union limit of 3 percent.  
 ‘More Dramatic’  
 There is a risk that fiscal strains in the euro region will
be “more dramatic” than they now appear, said Swedish central
bank First Deputy Governor Svante Oeberg.  
 “Greece is not the only potential problem,” Oeberg said
in a speech posted on the Web site of the Stockholm-based
Riksbank today. “Other countries also have major problems and
in a worst-case scenario, this could develop into a debt crisis
in several countries, which also affects the bank system.”  
 Investors are paying record high rates to protect bonds of
banks in Europe from default relative to the rest of the market
as the region’s fiscal crisis deepens. The Markit iTraxx
Financial Index of default swaps is about 26.5 basis points
higher than the corporate Markit iTraxx Europe Index, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 European Central Bank officials today dismissed speculation
that Greece’s budget crisis will spill over to other countries
in the euro region. “There is no economic cause for a contagion
discussion,” said ECB Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny.  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. An increase
signals deterioration in perceptions of credit quality.  
 A basis point on a contract protecting $10 million of debt
from default for five years is equivalent to $1,000 a year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Kenneth Rogoff, economics professor at Harvard University, attends the 2010 World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland in this file photo. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Richard Stovin-Bradford of the Financial Times' Lex commentary team talks with Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton about Portugal's bond yields and government debt. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
