-- Greek Debt Restructuring a `Necessity' Without Extra Aid, Evolution Says
-- Kate Haywood
-- 2010-04-26T10:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/greek-aid-request-isn-t-enough-doesn-t-lower-default-risk-evolution-says.html

          
          
             Greece’s request for a $60 billion
bailout doesn’t reduce the risk of default next year and a debt
restructuring will be a “necessity” without even more aid,
according to Evolution Securities Ltd.  
 Greek bonds tumbled today, driving the premium investors
demand to hold the nation’s 10-year notes rather than German
bunds to a record 6.36 percentage points. Finance Minister
George Papaconstantinou said yesterday investors will “lose
their shirts” betting against the nation as the European Union
and International Monetary Fund rescue will prevent a
restructuring.  
 Greece’s finances remain “stretched in the medium term,
even if the promised support provides some relief in the short
term,” said Gary Jenkins, Evolution’s head of credit strategy
in London. “EU/IMF funding is only sufficient for about one
year, and unless the amount made available to Greece is
increased significantly and/or market sentiment does a U-turn, a
restructuring looks like a necessity.”  
 The cost of insuring the nation’s debt against default
increased 4.5 basis points to 619, according to CMA DataVision
prices for credit-default swaps. A basis point on a swap
contract protecting $10 million of debt for five years is
equivalent to $1,000 a year.  
 Borrowing Needs  
 Greece borrowing requirements for this year total 45
billion euros ($60 billion) as it struggles to return its
deficit below the EU’s 3 percent limit by 2012, Jenkins said. It
has already raised 18 billion euros through bond sales, leaving
it with 27 billion needing to be financed over the rest of 2010,
he said.  
 Prime Minister George Papandreou asked last week for a 45
billion-euro aid package agreed with the EU and IMF to be
activated.  
 Greece will get about nine months of “breathing space”
if the full bailout is put into effect, according to
Citigroup Inc. analyst Mark Schofield.  
 “On the face of it, a restructuring, a rescheduling or an
external prop for the debt looks unavoidable,” Schofield wrote
in a client note. That “could trigger rapid contagion that
would cause a much graver problem should Spain, Portugal and
Ireland be impacted,” he wrote.  
 Even with the international rescue package, Greece’s
funding needs over the next two years will be “at least as high
as this year’s as higher redemption payments offset the planned
reduction in the deficit,” said Jenkins.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Haywood in London at 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        