-- Greece Needs $120 Billion, Double the EU-IMF Bailout Offer, Barclays Says
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-04-26T14:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/greece-needs-120-billion-double-the-eu-imf-bailout-offer-barclays-says.html

          
          
             Greece may need 90 billion euros
($120 billion) in loans to help it overcome its debt crisis,
twice what’s on offer from the European Union and the
International Monetary Fund, according to Barclays Plc.  
 The EU-led plan for a 45 billion-euro package will only
cover the nation’s financing requirements for the first year,
Barclays said. The lenders should not demand repayment before
the end of 2014, the bank said.  
 “Greece’s solvency challenge remains formidable,” London-
based analysts Piero Ghezzi and Christian Keller wrote in a
research note today. “A multi-year package of 90 billion euros
could provide Greece the breathing space to implement the fiscal
adjustment. As the contagion risk of debt restructuring at this
point could be significant, it is irrational for the EU and the
IMF to push Greece into any restructuring early.”  
 Greece’s plan to cut billions of euros in spending combined
with the EU bailout package haven’t yet managed to quell market
unrest over a deficit that’s more than four times the EU’s 3
percent limit. Prime Minister George Papandreou officially asked
for financial assistance at the end of last week.  
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the IMF’s managing director, said
talks will end “in time to meet Greece’s needs.” Greece has
8.5 billion euros of bonds maturing May 19.  
 The Greek two-year yield climbed 284 basis points to 13.77
percent as of 2:30 p.m. in London, after earlier advancing above
14.6 percent, the highest since at least 1998.  
 ‘Marathon not Sprint’  
 It’s still “very risky” to hold Greek bonds, although the
package may help the nation finance debt without having to go to
the market to raise money this year, the Barclays analysts said.  
 “The Greek debt problem remains a marathon and not a
sprint,” said Ghezzi and Keller. “The uncertainty remains
high.”  
 Investors demand an extra 625 basis points in yield to buy
Greece’s 10-year bonds rather than German bunds, compared with
559 basis points yesterday as German Chancellor Angela Merkel
said today Greece needs to show its budget is on a
“sustainable” path. She added a full German agreement to
bailout may take “a few days.”  
 Greek bonds were the worst performers in the region this
year, handing investors a loss of 12.6 percent compared with a
gain of 3.2 percent from Germany, according to Bloomberg/EFFAS
indexes.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        