-- Greek Bonds Slide on Speculation Germany Holds Back on Bailout
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-04-26T16:26:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/greek-government-bond-yields-stay-near-12-year-high-on-aid-package-concern.html

          
          
             Greek bonds tumbled, pushing yields
to the highest since at least 1998, on concern Germany isn’t
moving fast enough to agree to the terms of a 45 billion-euro
($60 billion) aid package.  
 Investors demanded an extra 6.35 percentage points in yield
to buy the nation’s 10-year bonds rather than benchmark German
bunds as Chancellor Angela Merkel said she won’t release rescue
funds until Greece shows it’s got a “sustainable, credible”
plan to cut its deficit. Citigroup Inc. said a reorganization of
the debt or extra support for the nation looks “unavoidable.”
Portugal’s bonds fell on concern the debt crisis is spreading.  
 “The market is increasingly nervous the funding will not
be in place before the next payments are due,” said Nick
Stamenkovic, a fixed-income strategist in Edinburgh at RIA
Capital Markets Ltd., a broker for banks and investors.
“Germany is playing hardball and until we see the money on the
table investors will demand a higher premium to hold the debt.”  
 The 10-year Greek bond yield jumped 80 basis points to 9.6
percent as of 5 p.m. in London. The 6.25 percent security due in
June 2020 slid 4.56, or 45.60 euros per 1,000-euro face amount,
to 78.74. The two-year yield jumped 300 basis points to 13.94
percent, after soaring earlier to 14.66 percent.  
 Greece’s fiscal crisis dominated weekend meetings in
Washington of finance ministers and central bankers from around
the world after the nation said on April 23 it wanted as much as
45 billion euros of financial support that was made available by
its European neighbors and the International Monetary Fund. The
nation’s bonds have lost 12.6 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes, while the debt crisis has helped push
the euro down almost 7 percent against the dollar since Dec. 31.  
 ‘Lose Their Shirts’  
 Merkel, speaking to reporters in Berlin, said there would
be no decision on aid for Greece until the IMF works out a plan
of cuts with the Greek government. She said Germany would assist
Greece only after it agrees to take “tough” measures for the
next several years. Greece’s Finance Minister George
Papaconstantinou said today talks with the EU are progressing
well, and are focused on specifying measures to be taken over
the coming years.  
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the IMF’s managing director, said
yesterday talks will end “in time to meet Greece’s needs.”  
 Greece has 8.5 billion euros of Greece’s bonds maturing May
19, and Papaconstantinou said bridge loans may be possible
should countries be unable to secure an accord in time. Money
will be available “rather soon,” he told reporters in
Washington yesterday, warning investors they will “lose their
shirts” if they bet the cash-strapped nation will default.  
 ‘Short-Term Solutions’  
 “Short-term solutions cannot solve Greece’s structural
issues,” Mark Schofield, head of interest-rate strategy at
Citigroup Global Markets in London, wrote in an investor note
today. “On the face of it, a restructuring, or rescheduling, or
an external prop for the debt looks unavoidable at some point.”  
 Greece may need 90 billion euros in loans to help it
overcome its debt crisis, twice what’s on offer from the EU and
the IMF, according to Barclays Plc.  
 The EU-led plan for a 45 billion-euro package will only
cover the nation’s financing requirements for the first year,
Barclays said. The lenders should not demand repayment before
the end of 2014, London-based analysts Piero Ghezzi and
Christian Keller wrote in a research note today.  
 ‘Conspicuously Vulnerable’  
 The difference in yield, or spread, between German bonds
and Irish, Italian, Portuguese and Spanish securities widened
amid concern Greece’s debt crisis will spread to other indebted
nations. Greece is unlikely to be the last euro nation to need
an IMF bailout, with Ireland, Spain and Portugal “conspicuously
vulnerable,” Harvard Professor and former IMF Chief Economist
Kenneth Rogoff said in a telephone interview.  
 “Pressure on the other peripheral countries will also
persist, if not intensify, in the near term, until the package
is eventually finalized and clearly backed,” Laurent Fransolet,
head of European fixed-income strategy at Barclays Plc in
London, wrote in an e-mailed note today.  
 The yield premium investors require for 10-year Spanish
securities instead of German bonds climbed 9 basis points to 101
basis points, the most in more than a year, and the Italian
yield spread increased 2 basis points to 97 basis points.  
 The Irish 10-year yield spread with bunds widened 15 basis
points to 186 basis points, and the Portuguese yield difference
jumped 27 basis points to 218 basis points.  
 ‘No Economic Cause’  
 “There is no economic cause for a contagion discussion,”
ECB Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said in an interview
in Washington on April 24.  
 German two-year notes rose as the decline in Greek debt
boosted demand for the safest European securities. The two-year
German yield fell 3 basis points to 0.88 percent. The bund yield
slipped 1 basis point to 3.05 percent and dropped earlier below
3.03 percent.  
 “Bunds will remain in demand due to their safe-haven
status,” Commerzbank AG strategists Peter Schaffrik in London
and Frankfurt-based Peggy Jaeger wrote in an investor report
today. “In the medium term there are major concerns as regards
solvency and competitiveness of the Greek economy. As long as
they are not addressed, fears about a default-restructuring in
the medium term will remain present.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Wolfgang Schaeuble  
                       
                         
                           Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Wolfgang Schaeuble, Germany's finance minister, gestures while speaking at a news conference after a meeting of the German federal Cabinet in Berlin, Germany, on March 31, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Wolfgang Schaeuble, Germany's finance minister, gestures while speaking at a news conference after a meeting of the German federal Cabinet in Berlin, Germany, on March 31, 2010. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
