-- Greece Bondholders Shouldn't Escape a `Haircut': Matthew Lynn
-- Matthew Lynn
-- 2010-04-26T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/greece-bondholders-shouldn-t-escape-a-haircut-matthew-lynn.html

          
          
             The endgame for the Greek crisis is
approaching. The big question is who should pay for this mess.  
 There is a lot of pain still to come in Greece. Ordinary
citizens will be paying for years. So will euro-area taxpayers
and the International Monetary fund. But bondholders shouldn’t
emerge from the wreckage unscathed.  
 Investors are as much to blame as anyone. They should lose
at least 50 percent of their money.  
 After another rout in the bond markets last week, the
talking ended and the action began. Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  asked for the 45 billion-euro ($60 billion) aid from
the European Union and the International Monetary Fund.  
 The EU and the IMF are going to have a lot of work to do.
They will need to get a grip on Greece’s finances while dealing
with the possibility of default.  
 Greece has a national debt of about 300 billion euros. A 45
billion-euro rescue package won’t fix that. If the IMF can
convince the markets that Greece is creditworthy again, the debt
could be rolled over. If that’s not possible, there are only two
choices: Either more money will have to be found, or there will
have to be a managed default.  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. says some kind of “haircut” --
the partial forfeiture of bond repayments -- is inevitable.  Erik F. Nielsen , the bank’s chief European economist warned investors
last week to “look out for signs that the government might
offer a voluntary debt-restructuring arrangement sometime over
the next few months.”  
 Soaring Yields  
 The consequences of not honoring outstanding Greek debt in
full are clear to everyone.  
 If Greece defaults, even in an orderly way, yields will
soar for other heavily indebted nations, such as Spain and
Portugal. If Greece won’t repay its debts, investors will demand
a higher price for running the risk of a default elsewhere in
the euro area.  
 Next, a default may trigger losses among euro-area banks.
Their governments would have to bail them out again. It might be
the start of Credit Crunch II. Nobody wants that.  
 Yet bondholders should still share the financial burden of
the rescue, along with the taxpayers of Greece and the euro area
as well as the IMF member states.  
 Mutual Recklessness  
 First, it takes two sides to create a bond crisis. For
every reckless borrower there is a reckless lender. The Greek
government might have lied about its budget deficit and been
needlessly extravagant during the boom years. But nobody was
forced to lend the Greek government any money. Investors should
have asked themselves where the money was going, and how
sustainable Greek economic growth would be. They didn’t. Instead
they just saw that yields were higher than on German or French
debt, and jumped onto what looked like a gravy train.  
 Second, bank bailouts send the wrong message. We have
already seen banks get government help for making the wrong bets
on the mortgage markets. Now we are about to see them get bailed
out for making the wrong bets on sovereign debt. The idea seems
to have been established that financial institutions always get
their losses paid for by someone else. It is a very bad
principle. Greece would be a good place to draw the line.  
 Third, nobody ever promised that Greek debt would be
guaranteed by the rest of the euro area. The treaties that
created the single currency are quite explicit. They clearly
state there should be no bailouts between euro members.  
 Meaningless Words  
 Arguably, the leaders of the EU have already gone too far
in providing financial assistance to Greece. But to shoulder the
losses and spare bondholders would suggest the words in the
treaties were meaningless. If the bondholders didn’t read the
fine print, that’s just tough for them.  
 A total default may well cause carnage in the markets.
Interest rates would soar elsewhere. The credibility of the euro
could be torn to shreds. That might be too high a price to pay.  
 But bondholders should lose at least half their money.
Greek taxpayers will be paying higher taxes, retiring later, and
taking cuts in public spending. Euro-area taxpayers are paying,
and so are IMF member states. If bondholders escape unpunished,
it will be grossly unfair.  
 ( Matthew Lynn  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     George Papaconstantinou, Greece's finance minister, is viewed through eyepiece of a TV camera as he speaks at a press conference in Athens, April 20, 2010. Photographer: Kostas Tsironis/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
