-- Greece Will Be Rescued Because It May Pose Lehman-Style Crisis, HSBC Says
-- Jennifer Ryan
-- 2010-04-26T11:37:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/greece-poses-lehman-style-crisis-worry-to-european-union-hsbc-s-king-says.html

          
          
             Greece will be rescued because
officials are worried its default could result in a “public
sector version of Lehman Brothers,” HSBC Holdings Inc. chief
economist Stephen King said.  
 “The desire to prop Greece up is not necessarily to help
Greece, but to safeguard the sanctity of the system,” King said
in an interview in London today. “A lot of politicians and
policy makers are worried that Greece could prove be a kind of
public-sector version of Lehman Brothers, where its failure
leads to a series of unintended and undesirable consequences
that would be bad for the system as a whole.”  
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in September 2008,
exacerbating the global financial crisis and prompting budget
deficits to swell. Greek two-year bond yields surged today even
after Finance Minister George Papaconstantinou said money from a
three-year loan plan with the International Monetary Fund and
European governments will be available “rather soon.”  
 “If it were purely a sovereign state on its own in this
kind of trouble, default is probably a pretty likely option, or
restructuring,” he said. “Because Greece is part of the euro
zone, and because the knock-on effects are worrisome for other
countries within the euro zone, the politics of this matters an
awful lot. Some kind of deal will be found.”  
 The extra yield that investors demand to hold Greek 10-year
bonds over their German counterparts jumped 49 basis points to
607 points today. The euro, which has dropped 7 percent against
the dollar this year, slipped 0.4 percent to $1.3334.  
 Officials may need to step in to prevent Greece’s cost of
borrowing from rising too far in order to stave off default,
King said.  
 “What you ultimately want to do is some guarantee that
rates can’t rise beyond a certain level,” he said. “Either
the IMF or Europe will become a buyer of last resort of Greek
government bonds at a certain level. It may have to happen if
default is to be avoided.”  
 King’s book, “Losing Control: The Emerging Threats to
Western Prosperity,” will be published next month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        