-- Icahn Seeks to Void Lions Gate Poison Pill
-- Joe Schneider
-- 2010-04-26T20:25:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/icahn-seeks-to-void-lions-gate-poison-pill-in-canada-to-press-hostile-bid.html

          
          
             Carl Icahn, seeking to advance his
bid for Lions Gate Entertainment Corp., urged Canadian
regulators to invalidate a “poison pill” that makes a hostile
takeover of the studio more costly.  
 The pill, which entitles shareholders to buy more stock at
a discount, was implemented by Lions Gate’s board as a
“tactical” move against Icahn’s bid, without approval from
shareholders, Mark Gelowitz, Icahn’s lawyer, told a three-member
panel of the British Columbia Securities Commission at a hearing
today in Vancouver.  
 Securities regulators across Canada, including British
Columbia, have made it clear that rights plans adopted without
prior shareholder approval won’t generally be found in the best
interests of the shareholders, Gelowitz said.  
 “The time comes eventually for any poison pill when it
must go,” Gelowitz said. “It cannot be used simply as a means
to block a bid. It can’t be used to just say ‘no.’”  
 Icahn, who owns almost 19 percent of Lions Gate, is
offering $7 a share for the maker of the “Saw” and “Tyler
Perry” movies, or about $826 million. A victory would make it
easier for Icahn to attract votes for his tender offer, which
expires on April 30. A decision favoring the company would
bolster Lions Gate’s defense by allowing shareholders to vote on
the poison pill on May 4.  
 Deadline Set  
 “They haven’t just said ‘no,’” Jessica Kimmel, Lions
Gate’s lawyer, told the panel in her opening statement,
referring to the board. “They said, ‘shareholders it’s up to
you to decide.’”  
 Icahn deliberately set a deadline two business days before
the scheduled vote in a bid to pre-empt it, Kimmel said.  
 A ruling in Icahn’s favor will send a message to all
hostile bidders that it’s an acceptable practice in Canada,”
Kimmel said.  
 Icahn, the 74-year-old investor, is up against board
members and allies who control more than 30 percent of Lions
Gate shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Mark Rachesky, co-founder of MHR Fund Management LLC, is a
former Icahn associate who joined the board in July. He holds
23.2 million shares, or 19.7 percent, and said in a March 2009
filing that he is “principally supportive” of management.  
 ‘Nothing Productive’  
 Los Angeles-based Capital Group Cos. owns 12.3 million
shares, or 10.4 percent, and fund manager Gordon Crawford called
Lions Gate a “very well-run company” in an April 6 story in
the Los Angeles Times. “All Carl is doing is running up legal
bills, distracting management and doing nothing productive for
shareholders,” the newspaper quoted Crawford as saying.  
 The studio, run from Santa Monica, California, amended the
poison pill on April 23, allowing Icahn to vote his stake
against the plan at a May 4 shareholder meeting, on the
recommendation of a board committee and company advisers.  
 The anti-takeover plan is still structured to favor the
company because it sets a March 23 record date for shareholders
to vote in the special election, Icahn said in a filing.  
 He argued that 16.4 million shares were traded between
March 24 and April 13, and that there are “reasons to expect
that a significant number of Lions Gate common shares will not
be voted at the special meeting.”  
 The studio has urged shareholders to reject Icahn’s offer.  
 “Unlike most shareholder rights plans in the U.S., Lions
Gate’s shareholder rights plan affords significant decision-
making authority to shareholders,” the company said in its
April 9 release.  
 Lions Gate fell 19 cents to $6.99 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 20
percent this year.  
 The plan has been supported by investment adviser Glass
Lewis & Co. and Egan-Jones Proxy Service. Icahn is supported by
Riskmetrics Group and Proxy Governance Inc.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronald Grover in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Schneider in Vancouver at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        