-- Greece's Deepening Fiscal Woes Are Lesson for Japan, IMF's Shinohara Says
-- Keiko Ujikane
-- 2010-04-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/imf-deputy-shinohara-says-japan-needs-to-learn-from-greece-s-fiscal-woes.html

          
          
             Greece’s deepening financial crisis
serves as a lesson for Japan, which needs to devise a
“credible” fiscal plan to curtail the world’s largest public
debt, an International Monetary Fund official said.  
 “I don’t think the threat of a spillover from Greece will
impact Japan for the moment,” Naoyuki Shinohara, deputy
managing director at the International Monetary Fund, said in an
interview in Washington yesterday. “Yet, it’s important for the
government to show a credible fiscal framework in the medium
term. Greece shouldn’t be regarded as a fire on the other side
of the river.”  
 Japan’s finances have come under scrutiny since January,
when Standard and Poor’s cut the outlook of the nation’s AA
rating to “negative.” Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama’s
government will unveil a fiscal plan in June to address a debt
burden the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
estimates is approaching 200 percent of gross domestic product.  
 Greece’s fiscal crisis dominated the meetings of finance
ministers and central bankers from around the world in
Washington. Officials from the Group of 20 pledged plans to
withdraw economic stimulus as the global recovery strengthens
and Greece’s attempt to avert default highlights the risks posed
by mounting government debt.  
 Hatoyama is considering targeting a budget surplus by 2020
among options for the fiscal plan, a government official
familiar with the matter said last week. Finance Minister Naoto
Kan is drafting fiscal discipline legislation as tax revenue has
been hobbled by deflation and four recessions in the past two
decades.  
 ‘Concrete as Possible’  
 “It’s necessary for the government to make the medium-term
fiscal roadmap as concrete as possible,” said Shinohara, a
former top currency official at Japan’s Ministry of Finance. He
said deflation makes it difficult to unwind fiscal stimulus,
underscoring the need for a debt plan.  
 Japan’s creditworthiness is under pressure as the
government’s debt burden swells and households save less, Fitch
Ratings analyst Andrew Colquhoun said on April 23.  
 Shinohara also said the government’s fiscal framework
should include a plan to bolster tax receipts.  
 “The government can’t avoid some kind of revenue reform,”
he said. Otherwise, “things probably won’t go well.”  
 Shinohara also said China should allow its currency to
become more flexible.  
 Increase Flexibility  
 “A greater flexibility of the yuan will enhance domestic
purchasing power and increase the degree of the flexibility in
monetary policy when in an inflationary phase,” Shinohara said.
“In that sense, it’s desirable and it’s in the interest of
China.”  
 China has come under pressure to revalue its currency and
fuel domestic consumption to help correct global trade
imbalances. While the G-20 statement made no specific comment on
exchange rates, U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner
maintained pressure on China to let its yuan appreciate.  
 Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao’s government has kept the
Chinese currency at about 6.83 against the dollar since July
2008, after allowing it to rise 21 percent in the previous three
years.  
 Shinohara also said China has little need to raise interest
rates because the nation isn’t “in a situation where
inflationary pressure is increasing.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Washington
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Yukio Hatoyama, Japan's prime minister, speaks during a news conference at the prime minister's official residence in Tokyo, on March 26, 2010. Photographer: Katsumi Kasahara/Pool via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
