-- Senators Seek to Salvage Climate Bill Amid Immigration Feud
-- Kim Chipman
-- 2010-04-26T17:53:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/immigration-climate-measures-can-both-be-passed-by-congress-summers-says.html

          
          
             The fate of climate-change
legislation is being weighed at the Capitol today by senators
seeking to salvage a proposal aimed at fighting global warming
and remaking the U.S. energy economy.  
 The measure sponsored by Senators Lindsey Graham, John
Kerry and Joseph Lieberman was to be made public today until
Republican Graham pulled out to protest that the Obama
administration and Senate Democratic leaders may act first to
overhaul immigration laws. The three senators will meet today to
discuss how to proceed, according to Lieberman spokesman
Marshall Wittmann.  
 “Any and all reports of the demise of energy legislation
are greatly exaggerated,” Wittmann said in an e-mailed
statement. “Not only is this bill very much alive but the
senators are aggressively moving forward to remove any obstacles
to getting it passed this year.”  
 The dispute over the climate-change measure’s timing in
Congress concerns how many politically divisive issues lawmakers
are able or willing to tackle in coming months, as their
attention turns increasingly to the November midterm elections.
The overhaul of the U.S. health-care system dominated the first
year of President Barack Obama’s administration, and the Senate
is now debating financial regulatory legislation.  
 Graham of South Carolina has been working for more than six
months with Kerry, a Massachusetts Democrat, and Lieberman, a
Connecticut independent, on a compromise bill to cap greenhouse-
gas pollution and develop new energy resources.  
 ‘Cynical Ploy’  
 Senate Democratic leaders and Obama want to put immigration
ahead of energy legislation as part of a “cynical ploy” to win
votes for Democrats in the November elections, Graham said in an
April 24 letter to groups including business leaders and
environmentalists.  
 “I deeply regret that election-year politics will impede,
if not derail, our efforts to make our nation energy-
independent,” Graham said.  
 The senators plan to send their bill to the Environmental
Protection Agency today for analysis, according to Wittmann.
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid has said an EPA study will be
completed before the measure is brought before the Senate.  
 “Since it will take EPA about five weeks they ought to get
started,” said Joseph Romm, a senior fellow at the Center for
American Progress, a public-policy group in Washington that
advises Democrats.  
 Obama had told his Economic Advisory Board on April 17,
“The financial regulatory reform will take several more weeks
and then we’ll probably be transitioning next to look at on what
can be done on the energy front.”  
 Immigration Overhaul  
 The president pressed anew last week for an overhaul of
U.S. immigration policy, and Democratic congressional leaders
said that legislation may advance this year if Reid can gain
enough support.  
 Calls to revamp federal immigration law grew as Arizona
enacted a law last week requiring police to determine the
immigration status of anyone an officer suspects is in the
country without proper documentation. Inaction in Washington
will lead to “misguided” efforts such as the Arizona measure,
Obama said April 23.  
 White House economic adviser Lawrence Summers said
yesterday that both immigration and climate-change should be
acted on, sidestepping the question of which issue Congress
should take up next.  
 “They are both important,” Summers said on the CBS
program “Face the Nation.” “There is no either-or between
energy and immigration reform.”  
 Up to Reid  
 Summers said it’s up to Reid, “for whatever reasons he
has,” to set the Senate’s legislative calendar.  
 Reid, a Nevada Democrat facing re-election in November,
said immigration and energy legislation are “equally vital” to
the nation’s economic and national security and have been
“ignored too long.”  
 “Energy could be next if it’s ready,” he said in an April
24 statement. “I have also said we will try to pass
comprehensive immigration reform.”  
 The last try at revamping the law to create a guest worker
program and provide a path to citizenship for some of those
living in the U.S. illegally was in 2007. That was blocked amid
opposition from Republicans and some Democrats. Graham, along
with Democratic Senator Charles Schumer of New York, has worked
to come up with a framework for legislation that can win
bipartisan support.  
 Not the ‘Right Time’  
 Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell said Congress
shouldn’t try to overhaul immigration laws this year.  
 “I just don’t think this is the right time,” McConnell of
Kentucky said yesterday on “Fox News Sunday.”  
 Senator Saxby Chambliss, a Georgia Republican, said the
Senate shouldn’t consider either climate change or immigration
legislation.  
 “I’m not sure how we can justify bringing either one of
them up right now,” Chambliss said yesterday on CNN’s “State
of the Union” program. Instead, the chamber should focus on
spending bills, he said.  
 Kerry, Graham and Lieberman had planned to unveil today a
scaled-back version of “cap-and-trade” legislation passed by
the House last year. The House measure would limit carbon
emissions throughout the economy, establishing an emissions-
trading market in pollution allowances. Critics such as
billionaire investor Warren Buffett said that would amount to a
burdensome energy tax on consumers.  
 Utility Carbon-Trading  
 The senators’ compromise would initially provide carbon
trading solely for utilities, with manufacturers added later.
Oil companies would get free allowances that would expire by a
certain date. The measure also would provide for expanded
offshore oil and gas drilling and incentives for nuclear power
and “clean-coal” technology.  
 Their proposed legislation already had won support from
utilities such as Exelon Corp., and people close to the matter
said last week that oil companies including ConocoPhillips were
prepared to sign on.  
 The senators’ compromise, which would start taking effect
in 2013, would require a 17 percent reduction in U.S. carbon
emissions by 2020 and an 80 percent cut by 2050, according to
people familiar with the legislation.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Senator Joseph Lieberman of Connecticut, center, speaks as Senators John Kerry of Massachusetts, right, and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, listen during a news conference  in Washington, Dec. 10, 2009. Photographer: Alex Wong/Getty Images  
                   
    


 
     
         
             Chart:  Cap-And-Trade Explained
         
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
