-- Imperial Tobacco, BAT Seek Court Review of `Unreasonable' U.K. Display Ban
-- Lindsay Fortado
-- 2010-04-26T12:54:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/imperial-tobacco-bat-seek-court-review-of-unreasonable-u-k-display-ban.html

          
          
             Imperial Tobacco Group Plc and
British American Tobacco Plc’s U.K. unit along with retailers
are seeking a court review of a government ban on the display of
cigarettes, cigars, pipes and rolling tobacco in stores.  
 The companies are challenging the Health Act of 2009, which
requires tobacco products to be hidden, British American Tobacco
and Imperial Tobacco said in separate statements today. The law
takes effect at large retailers in England, Wales and Ireland in
October 2011 and at smaller outlets in October 2013.  
 “Banning the display of tobacco products is a further
example of the government’s unreasonable and disproportionate
approach to regulating tobacco,” Imperial Tobacco Chief
Executive Gareth Davis said in the statement.
    To offset declining demand, tobacco companies are increasing
prices and fighting new regulations that would limit sales.
British American Tobacco said in February it raised cigarette
prices by an average of 8 percent in Europe, Asia, Africa and
the Americas.  
 A Department of Health spokeswoman said they aren’t aware
of an application for judicial review on the matter and said
they have only received a letter from Imperial Tobacco and
British American Tobacco lawyers.  
 ‘Substantial Evidence’  
 “There is substantial evidence that tobacco displays
promote smoking to young people and undermine the efforts of
smokers to quit,” the Department said in an e-mailed statement.
“We have worked closely with retailer representative
organizations like the Association of Convenience Stores to
develop regulations that will allow shops to cover displays in
practical, cost-effective ways.”  
 Joining British American Tobacco in the challenge are
Portland Food & Wine, which owns six convenience stores in
London, German cigarette maker Tobacco Management & Consulting
Company, and North London store owner Harendra Bhatt.  
 “The display ban will damage both competition and the
livelihoods of tens of thousands of small businesses by imposing
high compliance costs,” British American Tobacco General
Manager Michelle Healy said in the statement. “Driving the
legal trade from public view will also play into the hands of
illegal traders.”  
 Imperial Tobacco’s vending machine subsidiary, Sinclair
Collis, said in February it would seek a judicial review of a
ban of tobacco sales in machines.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        