-- India to Offer Poor $2 for Lost Wages in National ID Drive
-- Saikat Chatterjee
-- 2010-04-27T08:07:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/india-s-poor-to-get-2-for-lost-wages-while-getting-eye-scans-for-database.html

          
          
             Billionaire Nandan Nilekani, who
heads the government agency tasked with giving Indians a unique
identity number, said the country will offer $2 to its poorest
to compensate them for lost wages while they get iris scans.  
 India’s Finance Commission has granted 30 billion rupees
($676 million) over five years to the Nilekani-headed Unique
Identification Authority of India to entice the nation’s poor to
sign up for the world’s largest biometric database.  
 “Since the poor have to forego their income and go through
great inconvenience to get the number, they should get
reimbursed at least 100 rupees,” Nilekani, one of the founders
of Bangalore-based software developer Infosys Technologies Ltd.,
said at a press conference in New Delhi yesterday. He stepped
down as co-chairman of Infosys in July to set up the authority.  
 India appointed Nilekani to set up a fraud-proof system
that will help the government provide access to banking services
and state benefits such as food subsidies to the poorest, who
are often excluded because they can’t prove their identity.
Subsidies accounted for about 13 percent of the government’s
total expenditure in the year ended March 31.  
 The plan to set up an identity database is part of Prime
Minister Manmohan Singh’s effort to increase incomes and provide
benefits to more of the 456 million Indians the World Bank says
live on less than $1.25 a day.  
 Nilekani and his family rank 721st in Forbes magazine’s
list of world billionaires.  
 Iris Scans  
 The authority plans to provide the first set of 12-digit
numbers between August through February, said its Director
General R.S. Sharma at the press conference to unveil a logo and
name for the project yesterday. The agency plans to cover at
least half of India’s 1.2 billion people by the summer of 2014.  
 The agency decided to use iris scans in addition to
fingerprints because people engaged in activities such as making
local hand-rolled cigarettes called bidis have worn out
fingerprints, Sharma said. The authority is in the process of
hiring companies to develop software to build the database that
will include names, dates of birth and iris scans, he said.  
 The project’s logo consists of a fingerprint in red, ringed
with the sun’s rays in orange. The name Aadhaar means foundation
in Hindi.  
 The enrollment incentive will be given only to the poorest,
identified as those living below the so-called poverty line,
Nilekani said.  
 Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee has allocated 19 billion
rupees to the authority for this financial year, which ends
March 31.  
 India, the world’s fastest-growing major economy after
China, may expand by as much as 8.25 percent in the year that
began April 1, Prime Minister Singh said last week.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Saikat Chatterjee in New Delhi at 
 schatterjee4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Nandan Nileka, of the Unique Identification Authority  
                       
                         
                           Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Nandan Nilekani, executive of the Unique Identification Authority of India, arrives at the Indian Parliament in New Delhi, on Feb. 26, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Nandan Nilekani, executive of the Unique Identification Authority of India, arrives at the Indian Parliament in New Delhi, on Feb. 26, 2010. Photographer: Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
