-- India Delays Fighter Jet Deal, Risks $1 Billion Price Hike
-- James Rupert
-- 2010-04-27T04:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/india-misses-date-to-buy-126-fighter-jets-asks-six-vendors-to-renew-bids.html

          
          
             India will miss a deadline tomorrow
to complete the world’s biggest fighter-jet purchase in 15 years,
risking a possible $1 billion price increase as Boeing Co. and
five rival manufacturers resubmit bids.  
 India’s Air Force is still conducting flight trials for
competing jets from Boeing, Lockheed Martin Corp. and four
European companies, two years after accepting price quotes for
126 warplanes that the government said should cost about $10
billion. The bids expire April 28 and the Defense Ministry has
asked manufacturers to submit offers for an additional year, its
spokesman, Sitanshu Kar, said in a phone interview in New Delhi.  
 “The companies have been informed by the government that
they can extend their bid for one more year,” Kar said. “They
have the option of increasing or decreasing their price.”  
 The delay in buying what India describes as “multi-role
combat aircraft” may raise the government’s eventual cost, said
Mrinal Suman, a retired Indian army major general and arms
procurement analyst. “By the recent track record, the cost of
these aircraft generally goes up by 7 percent to 10 percent each
year,” Suman said in a phone interview.  
 India’s failure to choose a plane within the planned two
years “highlights that this is by far the biggest, most complex
arms purchase India has ever undertaken,” said Suman, who
monitors weapons procurement for the Confederation of Indian
Industry.  
 ‘Past Scandals’  
 Political considerations have slowed decision-making by
Defense Minister A.K. Antony, said Rahul Roy-Chaudhury, senior
fellow for South Asia at the International Institute for
Strategic Studies in London.  
 “Antony has been trying to assure a squeaky clean deal to
avoid any possible allegation of corruption, because of past
scandals” that helped drive the ruling Congress Party to defeat
in 1989 elections, Roy-Chaudhury said. Those scandals erupted
over allegations that Indian officials took bribes in the
purchase of Swedish artillery and German submarines.  
 Since the 1980s, no Indian government has made an open-bid
arms purchase valued at as much as $100 million, or 1 percent of
the fighter deal’s size, Roy-Chaudhury, Suman and other analysts
say.  
 While the delay amid rising prices is likely to raise
India’s cost, competitive pressures or exchange rate
fluctuations may also counter such increases, Suman said.  
 India is buying the fighters as it has been phasing out
Russian-built MiG jets, some of which date back to the 1970s.
Twenty-one air force MiGs have crashed in the past three years,
Antony said yesterday in a statement submitted in Parliament.  
 Himalaya Tests  
 The Indian air force has conducted flight trials for the
six competing aircraft from a high-altitude airfield near Leh in
the Himalayas, a desert base in Rajasthan state and in the
tropical climate of Bangalore, Kar said. “The trials will be
over shortly, maybe by the end of May,” he added.  
 The air force “will provide the government with two or
three options that meet the technical needs, and then it will be
up to the political decision makers,” Roy-Chaudhury said.
Chicago-based Boeing, maker of the F/A-18 Super Hornet, and
Lockheed-Martin, based in Bethesda, Maryland, which builds the
F-16 fighter, may benefit from a desire by India to cement
strategic ties to the United States, he said.  
 Lockheed-Martin “plans to update our commercial bid to
ensure the best possible value to India,” company spokesman
John Giese said in an e-mail. Boeing is “working to provide a
compliant response” to India’s request that it extend its bid,
spokesman Brian Nelson wrote in an e-mail.  
 Sweden’s Saab AB will make no change in its bid to sell the
Gripen fighter, said Eddy de la Motte, who heads the company’s
campaign in India. The other contenders -- Paris-based Dassault
Aviation SA, Moscow-based United Aircraft Corp., and the
European Aeronautic, Defense & Space Co., which has headquarters
in Paris and Munich -- did not comment on their plans.  
 To contact the reporter on this story: James Rupert
in New Delhi at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       A.K. Antony, India's defense minister  
                       
                         
                           Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A.K. Antony, India's defense minister, arrives at the Indian Parliament in New Delhi, on Feb. 16, 2009. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A.K. Antony, India's defense minister, arrives at the Indian Parliament in New Delhi, on Feb. 16, 2009. Photographer: Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
