-- Indian Cricket Body to Probe Telecast Rights for Sport's Richest League
-- Anoop Agrawal
-- 2010-04-26T08:09:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/india-s-cricket-governing-body-to-probe-founder-of-world-s-richest-league.html

          
          
             Indian cricket’s governing body
will probe broadcast and Internet agreements signed by the
sport’s richest league after suspending founder Lalit Modi amid
a government probe into financial irregularities.  
 The Board of Control for Cricket in India doesn’t have the
papers for the rights, Shashank Manohar, president of the board
told reporters in Mumbai today. The body named Chirayu Amin,
chairman and managing director of drugmaker Alembic Ltd. to take
over as the interim chairman of the Indian Premier League from
Commissioner Modi.  
 Modi said on April 20 he would respond to any allegations
after a two-week franchise scandal triggered investigations by
the government and tax officials and forced the resignation of a
minister. IPL’s brand value has grown to $4.13 billion from
$2.01 billion last year and is the most-watched format of the
game in the nation of 1.2 billion people, according to estimates
by Brand Finance Plc.  
 “There was too much of power in one hand,” Manohar said.
“We are not in possession of the broadcasting rights documents,
which the income-tax department is asking us for every day.”  
 Modi, 46, didn’t answer calls to his mobile phone.  
 The crisis meeting comes a day after the final game in the
45-day tournament saw the Chennai Super Kings defeat the Mumbai
Indians, owned by billionaire Mukesh Ambani, Asia’s richest man.
Chennai Super Kings is controlled by N. Srinivasan, vice
chairman and managing director of India Cements Ltd. and a
secretary of the BCCI. Billionaire Vijay Mallya, chairman of UB
Group, Rupert Murdoch’s son, Lachlan, and movie megastar Shah
Rukh Khan are among owners of the six remaining teams.  
 Value Appreciation  
 The value appreciation of the three-year-old cricket
tournament outpaced last year’s 81 percent gain in India’s
benchmark Sensitive Index, the most in 18 years. Manchester
United, a U.K. soccer team founded more than a century ago, was
valued at $1.87 billion in April 2009, while the U.S. National
Football League’s Dallas Cowboys was worth $1.65 billion,
according to Forbes magazine’s ranking of the world’s most
valuable sports teams.  
 Shashi Tharoor, 54, a junior foreign minister and a former
undersecretary general at the United Nations, resigned on April
18 amid opposition claims that he benefited from free shares
given to a friend by Rendezvous Sports World Ltd., which heads a
grouping that won a $333 million bid for a team from the
southern state of Kerala. Tharoor, in a statement to lawmakers
on April 20, said he’d done “nothing improper or unethical, let
alone illegal.”  
 Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said the same day that
the government will look into “all aspects of the IPL,
including its source of funding” and assured “appropriate
action” will be taken against the guilty.  
 “The events of the last few days have thrown up lot of sad
and unfortunate developments,” BCCI President Manohar said in a
statement today, after suspending Modi from all positions at the
IPL and BCCI, which oversees the league.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        