-- Inflation Is `Big Worry' for India's Economy, Central Bank's Subbarao Says
-- Shobhana Chandra
-- 2010-04-27T07:22:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/inflation-is-big-worry-for-india-s-economy-reserve-bank-s-subbarao-says.html

          
          
             Reserve Bank of India Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao said faster inflation is a “big worry” for
the economy and the central bank plans to remove monetary
stimulus in a gradual manner to ensure sustained growth.  
 While the tightening of monetary policy may be “anti-
growth” in the short term, it is “certainly in the best
interest” of the economy in the longer term, Subbarao said in a
speech yesterday at the Peterson Institute for International
Economics in Washington. The central bank on April 20 raised
three policy rates by a quarter point each to slow inflation.  
 “The big worry is inflation,” Subbarao said. “Supply-
side inflation pressures are abating only gradually; meanwhile,
demand-side pressures are building up.”  
 Benchmark wholesale-price inflation in India accelerated to
a 17-month high of 9.9 percent in March, and consumer prices
paid by industrial workers surged 14.9 percent in February from
a year earlier. The price pressures are in part due to the lack
of adequate infrastructure such as roads and ports.  
 “The central bank’s approach is not comforting at all,”
said Ramya Suryanarayanan, an economist at DBS Group Holdings
Ltd. in Singapore. Interest rates are low given the current
economic upswing, and there is a “risk that if the RBI does
less now, they’ll probably have to do a lot more later,” she
said.  
 Bonds, Stocks  
 The yield on the 10-year Indian government bond increased
five basis points to 8.13 percent as of 12:30 p.m. in Mumbai
today. The Sensitive Index fell 0.2 percent to 17,717.5, while
the rupee declined 0.1 percent to 44.43 per dollar.  
 The RBI last week raised the benchmark reverse-repurchase
rate to 3.75 percent from 3.5 percent and the repurchase rate to
5.25 percent from 5 percent. It also ordered lenders to set
aside more funds, raising the cash reserve ratio to 6 percent
from 5.75 percent.  
 “We have begun the process of monetary tightening in
earnest,” Subbarao said. “We need to be calibrated” in
exiting from fiscal and monetary stimulus because private
consumption and investment haven’t fully recovered, he said.  
 In Asia, a region that’s leading the recovery from the
global recession, central banks from Malaysia to China have also
raised interest rates or taken steps to remove excess cash from
their banking systems to fend off inflation and asset-bubble
risks.  
 Economic Growth  
 India’s $1.2 trillion economy, Asia’s largest after Japan
and China, probably expanded as much as 7.5 percent in the
fiscal year ended March 31, and may grow 8 percent in the
current year, Subbarao said yesterday. The International
Monetary Fund estimates India will expand 8.8 percent this year
and 8.4 percent next year, more than it projected in January.  
 “India’s growth is getting more broad-based,” Subbarao
said. “Industrial growth is quite robust. Credit growth is
picking up.”  
 While India is coping with the fastest inflation among
Group of 20 nations, “supportive liquidity conditions” are
needed to help the government sell more debt, the RBI chief said
last week when he raised rates for the second time in a month.  
 Emerging markets need to take urgent action on the surge of
liquidity and capital flowing into their economies because it
could spur inflation and trigger another crisis, economists at
Standard Chartered Plc wrote in a report this week.  
 Capital Flows  
 India may attract large capital flows from overseas, posing
a “challenge” for currency and monetary management, Subbarao
said in a statement April 24.  
 The country “may well employ” some form of capital
controls on inflows should such investments surge, he said
yesterday.  
 “If capital flows resume and we intervene in the foreign-
exchange markets for whatever reason, there’ll be pressures on
the liquidity side, and that will put further pressure on
inflation,” he said, adding that he was not suggesting the
central bank will step in.  
 A lack of intervention may raise concerns about an
appreciation of the rupee, which would hurt export growth, he
said. India’s currency, having climbed 4.7 percent against the
U.S. dollar this year, is the third-best performer in Asia after
the Malaysian ringgit and South Korean won.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        