-- Israeli Foreign Minister Says He Hopes for Peace Talks Within Two Weeks
-- Jonathan Ferziger
-- 2010-04-26T17:31:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/israeli-foreign-minister-says-he-hopes-for-peace-talks-within-two-weeks.html

          
          
             Israeli Foreign Minister Avigdor
Lieberman said he hopes that U.S.-mediated, indirect peace talks
with the Palestinians will start within the next week or two.  
 Lieberman, speaking to members of parliament from his
Yisrael Beitenu party today in Jerusalem, said U.S. envoy George
Mitchell appears to be making progress in renewing Middle East
peace negotiations.  
 “From the first day of this government, we said we are
ready to start direct talks with the Palestinians with no
preconditions and I congratulate special envoy George Mitchell
on his efforts,” Lieberman said, according to a statement e-
mailed from his office. The foreign minister said he “hopes”
the indirect talks will begin “within a period of between a
week to two weeks.”  
 Mitchell ended a three-day visit to the region yesterday
after meeting with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and
Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas as part of a U.S.
bid to arrange the indirect “proximity talks.” Direct Israeli-
Palestinian peace talks were suspended 16 months ago. Abbas has
said Israel must stop construction in West Bank settlements and
east Jerusalem before they can resume.  
 Lieberman said that “as soon as the talks begin, we will
have to determine if we have a partner and what are their
intentions,” the statement said.  
 Mitchell, President Barack Obama’s special envoy for Middle
East peace efforts and the former Senate majority leader, plans
to return to the region next week, according to a statement
yesterday from the U.S. Embassy in Tel Aviv.  
 Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erakat said yesterday that
Obama invited Abbas to the White House, though a date hasn’t
been set. Netanyahu met with Obama at the White House March 23.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        