-- Israel's Al Gore-Funded GreenRoad Technologies Expects Revenue to Increase
-- Gwen Ackerman
-- 2010-04-26T05:04:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/israel-s-al-gore-funded-greenroad-technologies-expects-revenue-to-increase.html

          
          
             GreenRoad Technologies Inc., the
Israeli startup whose energy-saving technology caught the
attention of Al Gore, expects revenue to increase as companies
seek to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions and costs.  
 Sales are “strong” in the U.S. and Europe, its biggest
markets, Chief Executive Officer Dan Steere said in a telephone
interview from Spain. In February, the company got $10 million
in funds from former U.S. Vice President Gore’s Generation
Investment Management LLP, an investor in businesses that “help
solve the climate crisis,” according to its Web site.
GreenRoad’s device monitors the behavior of motorists and uses
the data to provide training to encourage safer and more fuel-
efficient driving.  
 “GreenRoad can be a useful tool in reducing fuel emissions
by identifying changes that could be made to driving styles,”
said Andrew Potter, a transportation expert at Wales’s Cardiff
Business School. “However, they need to be supported by
effective training processes.”  
 GreenRoad and competitors such as the Leeds, England-based
Masternaut Three X and San Luis Obispo, California-based Fleet
Management Solutions are vying for a share of the clean
technology market. Companies may generate $326 billion in
revenue from renewable energy projects such as biofuels, wind
power and solar photovoltaic within a decade from $139 billion
in 2009, according to research firm Clean Edge Inc.  
 Dashboard-Installed  
 The GreenRoad 360 device is a dashboard-installed box that
flashes green, yellow or red depending on the level of driving
risk. For $35 a month per vehicle, it collects data and sends it
over wireless networks to identify driving problems, Steere
said.  
 In the U.S., the world’s largest energy consumer, about
$350 billion is spent annually on fuel, with up to 33% of the
consumption accounted for by driving behavior, Steere estimated,
based on figures from the U.S. Department of Energy. Oil prices
have risen 70 percent in the past year.  
 “We can make a change now, without changing the engine or
buying an electric car,” said Hod Fleishman, founder and chief
of safety at GreenRoad.  
 While systems like GreenRoad’s offer about 30 percent
improvement in fuel efficiency, while electric vehicles promise
a reduction as much as 80 percent, said Phillip Gott, director
of automotive science and technology at the Lexington,
Massachusetts-based IHS Global Insights, a financial information
company.  
 “Fleets tend to keep good tabs on their drivers so putting
systems like this in place isn’t quite as important as what you
do with it,” he said. “The problem with training drivers is to
have it stick.”  
 ‘Apples and Oranges’  
 Still, comparing the GreenRoad system to the benefits of
electric cars is “talking apples and oranges,” he said.  
 Randy Hill, safety director of Virginia-based IDM Trucking,
said the transport company has reduced its crashes to zero and
seen $1,500 in fuel savings per truck since it adopted
GreenRoad’s software in 2008.  
 “I can tell them, ‘that’s a bad turn,’ and talk about how
to deal with it,” Hill said in a phone interview.  
 GreenRoad counts among its 90 customers the U.K. Ministry
of Defense; Sheffield Insulations; insurance provider Hartford
Financial Services Group Inc.; Marsh, a unit of Marsh & McLennan
Cos., the world’s second-biggest insurance broker; and the bus
operators of FirstGroup PLC, the U.K.’s biggest train operator.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        