-- Italy 10-Year Bond Spread vs. Bunds is Highest Since July on Greek Concern
-- Lorenzo Totaro
-- 2010-04-26T14:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/italian-10-year-bond-spread-widens-to-most-since-july-amid-greek-concerns.html

          
          
             The extra premium investors demand
to hold Italian 10-year bonds rather than German bunds widened
to the highest in nine months amid concern that Greece’s fiscal
crisis will spread to other indebted euro-region countries.  
 The difference in yield, or spread, between the Italian
bonds over Europe’s benchmark government securities rose to 100
basis points today, the highest since July 2009, according to
Bloomberg data. Greek 10-year bond spreads climbed to an all-
time high of 600 basis points against their German equivalents.  
 Investor concern that Greece’s crisis may spread has driven
up borrowing costs for other high-debt countries in the region,
such as Portugal. Greece may not be the last euro nation to
require an International Monetary Fund bailout in the next two
or three years, Harvard Professor Kenneth Rogoff, a former IMF
chief economist, said in a telephone interview.  
 Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi said last week that his
government’s orderly handling of public finances during the
worst recession since World War II saved Italy from a Greek-like
fate. While Italy and Greece have the highest debt-to-GDP ratios
in the European Union, Italy’s borrowing costs remained stable
and its finances fared better during the recession.  
 “Without sound finances, we would have either had to pay
extremely high interest rates, which would have jeopardized our
future finances, or we would have run the risk that faces now
Greece in not finding investors,” Berlusconi said.  
 Italy had a budget deficit of 5.3 percent of gross domestic
product last year compared with Greece’s 13.6 percent, Eurostat,
the EU’s statistics office, said last week. Italy’s economy, the
euro region’s third-biggest, shrank in the three months through
December after emerging from the recession in the third quarter.  
 Finance Minister Giulio Tremonti said that Italy’s debt
situation is “on par with Germany’s,” according to an April 24
interview with national broadcaster RAI. Tremonti said he had
presented tables at the IMF in Washington that showed Italian
debt projections through 2020.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        