-- Junk Bond Sales in Europe May `Surprise on Upside,' Morgan Stanley Says
-- John Glover
-- 2010-04-26T08:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/junk-bond-sales-in-europe-may-surprise-on-upside-morgan-stanley-says.html

          
          
             Bond sales by high-yield companies
in Europe may “surprise on the upside” because the number
needing to refinance is growing and debt costs are low,
according to credit strategists at Morgan Stanley.  
 Bond yields have slipped to about the level of the coupons
companies pay on their existing debt, which means they can
extend maturities with “minimal impact” on interest costs,
Andrew Sheets and Serena Tang wrote in an April 23 note.  
 “High-yield companies will need financing as they look to
restock and reinvest in their businesses,” the strategists
wrote. “Luckily, and somewhat surprisingly, it has rarely been
cheaper to issue.”  
 The average maturity of outstanding bonds and loans is
shortening, requiring refinancing as banks curb lending and
European sovereign debt premiums rise amid soaring budget
deficits and slowing economies. At the same time, rising profits
are holding companies’ borrowing costs at levels similar to
those at start of the credit crisis.  
 “High-yield spreads have already had an impressive run of
shrugging off the sovereign headlines,” the analysts wrote.
“Issuers may not want to push their luck.”  
 The effective cost of debt capital for non-financial
companies is about 5.2 percent, based on Markit iBoxx bond
indexes and assuming a 30 percent tax rate, the analysts wrote.
That compares with an equity risk premium of 5.5 percent over
risk-free rates for companies in the Morgan Stanley Capital
International Europe index, which includes some of the region’s
biggest companies, the strategists wrote.  
 Not Aggressive  
 Investors should increase cash holdings to be ready to take
advantage of new issuance, the analysts wrote.  
 “The vast majority of these bonds will represent the
refinancing of existing loans rather than net new debt,” the
strategists wrote. “We do not believe we are yet at a stage
where debt issuance is aggressive and an outright credit
negative.”  
 Companies in Europe have raised $16.6 billion from high-
yield bonds this year, compared with $2.27 billion in 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. First-quarter issuance
was $12.5 billion, a record for the period, the data show.  
 High-yield, or junk, debt is graded below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        