-- Twin of Late Polish President Kaczynski Will Seek the Post, Official Says
-- Monika Rozlal
-- 2010-04-26T13:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/kaczynski-to-run-for-polish-presidency-aims-to-succeed-his-identical-twin.html

          
          
             Poland’s opposition Law & Justice
party leader Jaroslaw Kaczynski will run for the presidency,
seeking to succeed his twin brother Lech, who was killed in a
plane crash on April 10, a party official said.  
 Marek Kuchcinski, acting head of the party’s parliamentary
caucus, said by phone today that Kaczynski would run for the
post his brother was likely to seek re-election for in June.  
 “The president’s life was tragically cut short and the
death of Poland’s patriotic elite means only one thing for us:
we need to complete their mission,” Kaczynski wrote in a
statement published by the PAP newswire in Warsaw.  
 Opinion polls show Kaczynski trailing parliamentary speaker
Bronislaw Komorowski, the candidate of the ruling Civic Platform
party. The nomination may revive long-running disputes between
the parties, including issues such as public spending, euro
adoption and foreign policy. The parties clashed in 2005 when
Lech Kaczynski became president and Jaroslaw prime minister.  
 Law & Justice was defeated by Civic Platform in a 2007
parliamentary election and has had public support of as much as
30 percent since then.  
 “Jaroslaw Kaczynski has an extremely negative electorate
and even if that distrust has softened a bit during mourning for
the late president, people will recall their feelings in a few
weeks,” said Beata Laciak, a sociology professor at Warsaw
University. “It may be even worse than before because people
will view him as a political animal rather than a normal human
being who wouldn’t be able to undertake a presidential campaign
after such a tragedy.”  
 Poland’s election law requires presidential candidates to
register no less than 55 days before an election. With a vote
set for June 20 that gives parties until today by 4:15 p.m. in
Warsaw to officially name their candidates.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net 
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        