-- Kazakh Economic Growth to Exceed Forecast on Oil Price, Suleimenov Says
-- Halia Pavliva
-- 2010-04-26T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/kazakh-economic-growth-to-exceed-forecast-on-oil-price-suleimenov-says.html

          
          
             The economy of Kazakhstan, the
biggest energy producer in central Asia and the world’s largest
miner of uranium, will outpace the government’s current growth
forecast this year as commodities prices surge, said Deputy
Economy Minister Timur Suleimenov.  
 “One of the key factors for faster growth is the oil price,
which is expected to average $80 per barrel, compared with the
$60 that we initially expected, and that will significantly
change our” forecast, Suleimenov said in an interview in
Washington. “Growth will be at about 4 percent this year.”  
 Oil traded in New York has advanced 67 percent in the past
12 months to exceed $83 a barrel yesterday. Central bank Governor
Grigori Marchenko said on April 21 the economy may grow about 3.5
percent in 2010, raising the bank’s 2 percent forecast that had
assumed an oil price of $60 a barrel. Output of Kazakhstan, which
holds 3.2 percent of global oil reserves, expanded 1.2 percent
last year.  
 Faster growth may force the government to raise its
inflation forecast for 2010, compared with its official target of
no more than 8 percent, Suleimenov said. Even so, accelerating
inflation isn’t prompting the government to rethink economic
policy, he signaled.  
 “At the moment, it’s too early to worry” about inflation.
Suleimenov said.  
 Customs Union  
 Kazakhstan, which entered a customs union with Belarus and
Russia on Jan. 1, still wants to join the World Trade
Organization to support its exports and sustain economic growth,
Suleimenov said.  
 “Regional integration has never hindered global
integration,” said Suleimenov, who leads Kazakhstan’s delegation
during this week’s talks with U.S. authorities over the WTO bid.
“If there is goodwill from WTO members, particularly the U.S.,
technically we will be able to join the WTO in a year to a year
and a half” after the Customs Union begins to operate.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        