-- Kosovo's Economy to Expand 4% in 2010 on Asset Sales, Central Banker Says
-- Aaron Eglitis
-- 2010-04-26T05:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/kosovo-s-economy-to-expand-4-in-2010-on-asset-sales-central-banker-says.html

          
          
             Kosovo’s economy may grow 4 percent
this year as the country that declared independence from Serbia
in 2008 sells state assets and attracts investment, central bank
Governor Hashim Rexhepi said.  
 “What is important is that this year the government has
decided to privatize the big public companies,” Rexhepi said in
an interview in Washington yesterday. Telecommunications company
PTK JSC, energy supplier KEK JSC and the main airport are likely
to be sold, he said.  
 Household consumption has fallen, investment dropped while
exports and remittances slid because of the global financial
crisis, Rexhepi said. Remittances from Kosovars working abroad
make up about 15 percent of gross domestic product and are
expected to recover as the European economy expands.  
 The enclave of ethnic Albanians at the center of a 1999
military conflict that ended with the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization ousting Serbian troops has been recognized by a
majority of European countries, putting them at odds with
Serbia.  
 Kosovo, a landlocked country wedged between Montenegro,
Serbia, Macedonia and Albania may feel the ripples of the crisis
in Greece since Greek banks operate in neighboring countries.  
 Greece on April 23 called for activation of a European
Union-led aid package of as much as 45 billion euros ($60.2
billion) to avoid a default as borrowing costs soared.  
 “I hope that Greece will find a solution with the support
of the EU and maybe the IMF to manage their debts,” Rexhepi
said. While Greece doesn’t have banks in Kosovo, its crisis may
hurt the region through its financial institutions in Macedonia,
Albania and Bulgaria, he said.  
 “We would not like this to happen, we are in the region
and the impact in this country will indirectly be on Kosovo,”
Rexhepi said. “This is a crucial issue for the euro zone -- I
don’t believe the EU can allow a member to fail.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Washington at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net 
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana, Slovenia, at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        