-- Nadel Receiver Recovered 5 Percent of $168 Million Losses, Investors Told
-- Doris Bloodsworth
-- 2010-04-26T20:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/nadel-receiver-recovered-5-percent-of-168-million-losses-investors-told.html

          
          
             The receiver for Arthur Nadel, a
Florida hedge-fund manager who pleaded guilty to fraud charges
in connection with a Ponzi scheme, said he has only been able to
recover about 5 percent of the $168 million in losses investors
suffered.  
 Burt Wiand, a lawyer appointed last year as receiver for
Nadel’s Viking Fund LLC and Scoop Management LP, told investors
at a public meeting in Sarasota, Florida, today that he has been
able to recoup $8.8 million so far in “false profits” paid
from the funds and sales of Nadel’s assets. Nadel, 77, pleaded
guilty in February to securities- and wire-fraud charges and is
awaiting sentencing.  
 Wiand told a group of about 50 investors today that he’s
placed the recovered money in conservative investments. “Early
on, I considered investing it in hedge funds, but then thought,
maybe not,” Wiand joked at the meeting today.  
 Nadel went missing in January 2009 amid federal
investigations targeting money managers following the disclosure
of Bernard Madoff’s alleged $50 billion Ponzi scheme. Some of
the alleged swindles unraveled as Madoff’s case and market
declines prompted investors to demand their money from the
managers. Nadel turned himself in to Federal Bureau of
Investigation agents after about a week on the run.  
 The money manager raised more than $350 million from 370
investors during a 10-year period starting in 1999 in a classic
Ponzi scheme where withdrawals were covered by new investments
coming in, according to court filings.  
 ‘Fabricated’ Return Rates  
 Prosecutors alleged he engaged in fraud by overstating the
fund’s value over five years, according to court filings. In his
Feb. 24 guilty plea in federal court in New York, Nadel
acknowledged he “fabricated rates of return for my trading
activities.” He’s facing a maximum sentence of about 25 years
under the federal sentencing guidelines.  
 Most of the money recovered from Nadel’s funds has come
from settlements of false-profits suits against investors, Wiand
said in a phone interview last week.  
 He has filed 134 lawsuits seeking to recoup more than $71
million in profits paid to investors, distributions to
affiliates of Nadel’s funds or charitable contributions made
with fund money, according to a report Wiand filed with federal
court officials March 10.  
 Wiand contends Nadel investors reaped more than $32 million
in false profits based on the money manager’s fictitious
returns. He’s also suing Nadel’s former lawyers at the law firm
of Holland & Knight over disclosure documents sent to investors.
A state court judge in March rebuffed the firm’s bid to have the
case thrown out.  
 Sept. 11 Connection  
 The receiver also has sold assets Nadel bought with monies
generated by the fund, including private jets and an airfield in
Venice, Florida where some of the Sept. 11 attackers received
flight training. The sales didn’t produce much for investors,
Wiand noted.  
 “Many of these assets, including the jet center, were
weighed down with debt,” Wiand said. “I think we were able to
clear about $550,000 on the jet-center sale. Obviously, Mr.
Nadel wasn’t much of a businessman.”  
 Wiand set up seating for 300 people at a Sarasota ballroom
for today’s meeting. About 50 investors showed up at the hour-
long gathering for an update on the receivership’s progress.  
 One investor told the receiver today that “ it seems there
is still a huge number unaccounted for” in terms of the assets
of Nadel’s funds. Wiand responded his investigators still
haven’t uncovered “every nickel” and continue to the search
for missing monies.  
 Wiand is asking a federal judge overseeing the receivership
to approve more than $2.2 million in billings for his work over
the past year.  
 The civil case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Nadel, 09-cv-00087, U.S. District Court, Middle District of
Florida (Tampa).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Doris Bloodsworth in Sarasota, Florida, at
 dorisbloods@earthlink.net .  
          
          


  


        