-- New Zealand Dollar Is Near Three-Month High on Rates, Milk Price Outlook
-- Candice Zachariahs
-- 2010-04-27T01:05:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/new-zealand-dollar-is-near-three-month-high-on-rates-milk-price-outlook.html

          
          
             The New Zealand dollar traded near
its strongest in three months against the greenback and the yen
on speculation the central bank will signal this week that
interest rates will rise from a record low.  
 The so-called kiwi was bolstered against the yen as swaps
traders are betting Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor Alan
Bollard will increase the cash rate by 1.85 percentage points
over 12 months, according to a Credit Suisse AG index. New
Zealand’s currency was also supported after Fonterra Cooperative
Group Ltd., the world’s largest dairy exporter, raised its
forecast for milk prices today.  
 “The market is getting ahead of itself a little bit in
terms of more hawkish comments from RBNZ,” said Alex Sinton, a
senior dealer at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in Auckland. “There’s
good support for the kiwi.”  
 New Zealand’s dollar traded at 72.20 U.S. cents as of 12:42
p.m. in Wellington from 72.34 cents in New York yesterday, when
it reached 72.56 cents, the most since Jan. 20. It bought 67.78
yen from 67.97 yen yesterday, when it touched 68.31 yen, the
highest since Jan. 14.  
 Australia’s currency bought 92.72 U.S. cents from 92.69
cents. The currency was little changed at 87 yen.  
 New Zealand’s policy makers are forecast to keep the
official cash rate unchanged at their April 29 meeting,
according to the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  
 Milk Prices  
 Auckland-based Fonterra, the world’s biggest dairy
exporter, increased its forecast milk price for the 2009/10
season by 40 New Zealand cents to NZ$6.10 a kilogram of milk
solids.  
 “The market was leaning on this increase from Fonterra,
and that’s contributed to the kiwi’s performance over the last
few sessions,” said Greg Gibbs, an currency strategist in
Sydney at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. “That’s probably why it’s
not being bought.”  
 Dairying is New Zealand’s biggest export earner, accounting
for 20 percent of the nation’s trade receipts in the year ended
Feb. 28. China is the country’s biggest milk powder customer and
New Zealand’s second-largest export market overall.  
 Australia’s dollar was near an 18-month high against the
yen before a report forecast to show prices paid to Australian
producers rose in the first quarter, adding to signs the
nation’s economy is recovering.  
 The producer prices index gained 0.6 percent from the
fourth quarter, when it fell 0.4 percent, according to the
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey before
the Bureau of Statistics reports the data in Sydney today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        