-- New York Yankees Get a White House Welcome From Chief White Sox Fan Obama
-- Nicholas Johnston
-- 2010-04-26T20:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/new-york-yankees-get-a-white-house-welcome-from-chief-white-sox-fan-obama.html

          
          
             President Barack Obama set aside
hometown loyalties today to welcome the world champion New York
Yankees baseball team into the White House.  
 Obama, who frequently mentions his affinity for the Chicago
White Sox, played host to Yankees’ players, coaches and staff
for the traditional White House visit for a champion sports team
following the team’s Major League Baseball-record 27th World
Series title last year over the Philadelphia Phillies.  
 “It’s been nine years since your last title, which must
have felt like an eternity for Yankees fans,” Obama said.
“That attitude, that success, has always made the Yankees easy
to love and, let’s face it, easy to hate as well.”  
 The crowd in the East Room for the event was largely made
up of Yankee partisans, including members of New York’s
congressional delegation and Cabinet officials, who stood and
applauded as the team entered the room. Among them were Treasury
Secretary Tim Geithner, a native New Yorker, and Transportation
Secretary Ray LaHood, who attended the same Illinois high school
as Yankees manager Joe Girardi.  
 “For the millions of Yankees fans in New York and around
the world who bleed blue, nothing beats that Yankee tradition:
27 World Series titles; 48 Hall of Famers -- a couple, I expect,
standing behind me right now,” Obama said.  
 Service and Example  
 The president singled out several players -- first baseman
Mark Teixeira, catcher Jorge Posada and shortstop Derek Jeter --
for their community service work and the example they set.  
 Before coming to the White House, the Yankees meet with
wounded members of the military at Walter Reed Army Medical
Center.  
 “In the end, that’s what makes the Yankees special,”
Obama said. “It’s the players and coaches who shoulder a legacy
unlike any other, but who share a belief that anybody blessed
with first-class talent also has an obligation to be a first-
class person.”  
 A national title in college or professional sports
typically merits the winner an invitation to the White House.
Already this year, Obama has welcomed the National Basketball
Association’s Los Angeles Lakers and the University of Alabama’s
Crimson Tide football team.  
 ‘Painful to Watch’  
 The president hasn’t had a chance to welcome his hometown
team. The White Sox last won a World Series in 2005, with their
previous championship in 1917.  
 “For a White Sox fan like me, it’s painful to watch
Mariano’s cutter when it’s against my team, or to see the
Yankees wrap up the pennant while the Sox are struggling on the
South Side,” Obama said, referring to Yankees relief pitcher
Mariano Rivera, a 10-time All-Star.  
 Less than a month into the 2010 baseball season, the
Yankees are in second place of the American League’s East
Division with a record of 12-6. After the White House event,
they’ll be heading about 45 miles (72 kilometers) north for a
game tomorrow against the Baltimore Orioles.  
 The White Sox are in fourth place in the American League’s
Central Division with a record of 8-11.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        