-- Blackstone, Carlyle Said to Plan Nielsen Initial Sale
-- Sarah Rabil
-- 2010-04-26T20:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/nielsen-s-private-equity-owners-said-to-be-planning-public-stock-offering.html

          
          
             Nielsen Co., whose television-
audience ratings help set advertising prices, plans to return as
a public company four years after being taken private for $10.2
billion by investors including  Blackstone Group LP  and  Carlyle
Group , said a person with knowledge of the plans.  
 The owners of New York-based Nielsen are lining up bankers
to manage the share sale, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the plans haven’t been disclosed.  
 Buyout firms are using an improving market for initial
public offerings to sell companies and return cash to investors.
Eight private-equity-backed companies have raised $1.5 billion
this year, according to Pitchbook Data Inc., a Seattle-based
research firm. Twenty-five such IPOs raised $7 billion in 2009.  
 “Private-equity firms are trying to take advantage of the
robust markets to return money to their investors, as well as to
help their companies pay down debt,” Adley Bowden, managing
editor of Pitchbook Data, said in an interview.  
 There are more than 50 private-equity-backed IPOs in the
pipeline, estimates Scott Gehsmann, a capital-markets partner
with PricewaterhouseCoopers’ transaction-services group in  New
York , which advises buyout firms on IPOs.  
 “Many would argue that private-equity firms are now
driving IPO activity,” Gehsmann said in an interview.  
 Nielsen’s owners also include New York-based KKR & Co.,
Thomas H. Lee Partners LP in  Boston , AlpInvest Partners NV of
Amsterdam and San Francisco-based Hellman & Friedman LLC. The
company changed its name from VNU Group BV in 2007.  
 TV, Radio, Online  
 Ed Dandridge, a spokesman for Nielsen, declined to comment
on the IPO plans, which were reported yesterday by the Financial
Times. The company’s owners expect a sale to value Nielsen at
$17 billion to $21 billion including debt, the newspaper said.  
 Nielsen, with operations in more than 100 countries,
measures audiences across TV, radio, online and mobile phones
and provides brand and market-research services. It has lost
money each year since the 2006 buyout, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The company had $8.66 billion of debt as
of Dec. 31.  
 “They dominate the business,”  Ed Atorino , a  New York- 
based equity analyst with Benchmark Co., said in an interview.
“They’re probably more essential than ever with all this
explosion in media.”  
 Nielsen Competitor  
 One Nielsen competitor is publicly traded  Arbitron Inc .,
based in Columbia,  Maryland , which provides audience
measurements for  radio stations  and research on consumers.  
 Arbitron trades at more than 10 times its enterprise value
to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization. Nielsen’s private-equity owners hope an IPO would
value the company at 11 times to 13 times Ebitda, the Financial
Times reported, citing people familiar with the plans.  
 Arbitron has an enterprise value of about $900 million,
according to Bloomberg data.  
 Arbitron rose 17 cents to $31.91 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 36
percent this year, compared with the 16 percent increase by the
Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Media Index.  
 Private-equity firms are taking advantage of a rebound in
equity markets from their February lows to sell assets after
returning less money to clients in 2009 than any year on record.
Amadeus IT Holding SA, the flight-reservations provider
controlled by  BC Partners  Ltd. and Cinven Ltd., announced an IPO
of as much as $1.9 billion two weeks ago.  
 Investor Scrutiny  
 Brenntag AG, the German chemicals distributor owned by BC
Partners, and Providence Equity Partners-controlled Kabel
Deutschland Holding AG both raised more than $1 billion in IPOs
last month.  
 Every private-equity-backed company “that comes public is
under intense scrutiny,” said David Menlow, president of
Millburn, New Jersey-based IPOfinancial.com.  
 Some private-equity-backed companies have not paid off for
new shareholders. Metals distributor Metals USA Holding Corp.,
based in  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida , has fallen 7.9 percent since
the company was taken public on April 8. New York-based Apollo
Management LLC bought Metals USA in 2005.  
 U.S. IPOs stumbled at the start of 2010 as the first 14
deals were cut by 22 percent on average, Bloomberg data show.  
 New York-based Blackstone, the world’s largest buyout firm,
raised less than half of what it sought for Graham Packaging Co.
of York,  Pennsylvania , in February.  
 The market for U.S. IPOs recovered in the last six weeks as
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index reached its highest level since
September 2008, when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. of New York
collapsed in the biggest bankruptcy in history. Last week,
companies trying to raise money through initial sales suffered
setbacks as six deals raised 20 percent less than the maximum
sought on average, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  
 The Bloomberg U.S. IPO Index has gained 9 percent this
year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Emily Thornton in New York at 
 emthornton@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Rabil in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     File photo of a Nielsen Co. facility near Tampa Bay, Florida, where the company produces its television ratings data. Source: Nielsen via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
