-- Nigerian Prosecutors File Fraud Charges Against Ruling Party Chairman
-- Dulue Mbachu
-- 2010-04-26T18:50:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/nigerian-prosecutors-file-fraud-charges-against-ruling-party-chairman.html

          
          
             Nigerian prosecutors filed fraud
charges against Vincent Ogbulafor, the chairman of the ruling
People’s Democratic Party, according to court documents.  
 Charges filed before Judge Ishaq Bello of the Federal High
Court in Abuja today allege that Ogbulafor conspired with
contractors and officials of the National Economic Intelligence
Office to defraud the government of 170 million naira ($1.13
million), according to court transcripts. Bello ruled that
Ogbulafor and four others accused of a total of 16 charges must
appear in court again on May 3 to enter their pleas.  
 Ogbulafor couldn’t be reached on telephone numbers listed
for the party’s offices. Ogbulafor’s lawyer, Joe Gadzama,
declined to comment when reached on his mobile phone by
Bloomberg News. Gadzama also didn’t respond to a later mobile-
phone text message seeking comment.  
 The accusations stem from Ogbulafor’s time as a minister of
special duties in 2001. The other people accused weren’t in
court today, according to the documents. The ruling party is set
to hold a national executive meeting tomorrow in Abuja where
members will decide on strategies ahead of next year’s general
elections.  
 Ogbulafor said last month that the party’s next
presidential candidate will come from the north. Under an
unwritten convention the party rotates its presidential
candidates between the country’s predominantly Muslim north and
the mainly Christian south for two terms of four years each.  
 President Umaru Yar’Adua, elected on the party’s ticket in
2007, hasn’t been seen in public since he was flown to Saudi
Arabia for medical treatment on Nov. 23.  
 The emergence of acting President Goodluck Jonathan, a
southerner who hasn’t stated whether he would run in 2011, has
helped calm unrest in the country’s southern Niger River delta.  
 Attacks by armed groups in the Niger Delta cut Nigeria’s
crude production by more than 28 percent between 2006 and 2009.
Nigeria, which vies with Angola for Africa’s top oil producer,
is the fifth-biggest source of U.S. oil imports.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Lagos at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        