-- Nigeria Court Rules Statoil Must Keep Agbami Oil Field Revenue in Country
-- Dulue Mbachu
-- 2010-04-26T11:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/nigeria-court-rules-statoil-must-keep-agbami-oil-field-revenue-in-country.html

          
          
             A Nigerian federal court ruled that
Statoil ASA must keep revenue from the Agbami oilfield in the
country until a lawsuit by a former adviser is concluded.
Statoil ASA said it will appeal the decision.  
 Judge Charles Efang Archibong said at the Lagos court that
the order at the same time “shouldn’t in any way hinder their
business operations.” A hearing on the “substantive” issue
will take place on June 22 to June 24, he said.  
 Statoil, Norway’s largest oil company, faces a compensation
claim from John Abebe, a brother-in-law of former Nigerian
president Olusegun Obasanjo. Abebe said Statoil agreed to pay
him 1.5 percent of the profit from some assets for helping it
expand in Nigeria in the 1990s. Statoil said Abebe was fully
compensated for his services.  
 The Chevron Corp.-operated Agbami field started output in
2008 and last year reached 250,000 barrels of oil a day. The
field holds about 900 million barrels of oil equivalents,
according to Statoil, which has an 18.85 percent stake.  
 Judge Archibong ordered a temporary freeze of Statoil’s
income from the field on Feb. 25 and today’s proceeding was held
to decide whether to renew that order, which lapsed in March.  
 “I’m satisfied with the ruling,” Abebe said outside court
today. “The most important thing is that we’re going ahead with
the main issue.”  
 June Shipment  
 Statoil “will be under no legal obligation to implement
today’s ruling by the court, pending the appeal,” Kai Nielsen,
a spokesman, said by telephone from London. The company hasn’t
shipped crude from Agbami “for a while” and expects its next
shipment in about June, Nielsen said.  
 Statoil also operates two deepwater exploration licenses in
Nigeria and has shares in two others, operated by Petroleo
Brasileiro SA and Ocean Energy Inc.  
 Abebe became involved with Statoil when the Norwegian
company entered an alliance with BP Plc in Nigeria in the early
1990s, Statoil said Feb. 26. Abebe worked as a consultant for BP
and later joined Statoil Nigeria’s board until his contract was
terminated in 1999, the company said.  
 Nigeria, which vies with Angola for Africa’s top oil
producer, is the fifth-biggest source of U.S. oil imports.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Lagos at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        