-- Nomura Defections Damage Bid to Catch Up With Global Rivals
-- Ambereen Choudhury
-- 2010-04-27T06:56:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/nomura-bid-to-gain-altitude-hits-turbulence-as-lehman-veterans-bail-out.html

          
          
             Nomura Holdings Inc. executives
attending the annual meeting for top managers in Tokyo this
month witnessed an unprecedented event at the 84-year-old firm:
The chief executive officer gave his address in English.  
 CEO Kenichi Watanabe told 550 managers that Nomura, which
bought Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s Asian and European units
in 2008, is changing into a global firm and urged them to
strengthen cooperation among regions and units, said two people
present who declined to be identified. Standing before a screen
showing a jet emblazoned with the bank’s logo, Chief Operating
Officer Takumi Shibata compared Nomura to flying.  
 “The airplane just left the ground last year,” Shibata
said at the event at Tokyo’s Grand Prince Hotel New Takanawa.
“It needs to gain more altitude.”  
 Nomura has been hitting turbulence. At least 12 senior
former Lehman managers, including Nomura’s deputy investment
banking chief, have defected since the firm began paying out
guaranteed bonuses last month, casting doubt on Watanabe’s
efforts to bridge cultural gaps. Japan’s largest brokerage is
struggling to match a rebound in profit at Morgan Stanley,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc.  
 “Investment banking is ferociously competitive,” said
Giorgio Questa, a finance professor at London’s Cass Business
School. “I strongly doubt Nomura can develop a strong
international investment banking business” because it will
struggle to integrate Lehman’s culture, he said.  
 Earnings Estimates  
 Nomura may tomorrow report profit of 19.5 billion yen ($207
million) for the three months ended March 31, its fiscal fourth
quarter, according to the average estimate of seven analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. That compares with a loss of 216 billion
yen a year earlier. Keiko Sugai, a Nomura spokeswoman in Tokyo,
declined to comment.  
 The rebound has been slower than at some U.S. banks and
European rivals. Goldman Sachs said on April 20 first-quarter
profit almost doubled from a year earlier to $3.46 billion.
Morgan Stanley posted net income of $1.78 billion, compared with
a loss of $177 million a year earlier. Citigroup reported profit
more than doubled to $4.43 billion. All three companies, which
are based in New York, beat analysts’ estimates.  
 Barclays Plc, the U.K. bank that bought Lehman’s U.S.
business after it collapsed in September 2008, has also
outperformed Nomura. The company’s investment bank, led by
Robert Diamond, boosted full-year profit by 89 percent to 2.46
billion pounds ($3.8 billion), Barclays said in February.  
 Banker Departures  
 Barclays Capital, which previously focused on bonds, loans
and foreign exchange, surged to fourth in U.S. takeovers last
year from eighth in 2008 after its Lehman purchase, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Nomura’s ranking slipped in Europe
in the same period. The bank, ranked 12th in European takeovers
in 2008, wasn’t among the top 20 in 2009, the data show.  
 Since Sept. 30, 2008, Nomura has dropped 50 percent in
Tokyo. Barclays has gained 14 percent in London trading. Goldman
advanced 19 percent in the period and Morgan Stanley climbed 35
percent.  
 Watanabe’s woes intensified in March as Nomura began to pay
out final portions of guaranteed bonuses it offered to key
Lehman workers who agreed to stay after the acquisition. Within
days of the payouts, executives began to depart.  
 Sigurbjorn Thorkelsson, head of equities for Asia Pacific,
left for Barclays. Thomas Siegmund, co-head of fixed income for
Asia outside Japan, decamped for UBS AG. Other departures
included Jane Wang, vice chairman of China investment banking,
and Geoffrey Feldkamp, responsible for share underwriting in
Asia outside Japan.  
 Culture Clash  
 The exits spread to Europe as Nomura’s deputy global
investment banking head, Christian Meissner, quit this month,
less than two years after he arranged the sale of Lehman’s
European unit to the Japanese company. He left for Bank of
America Corp. a month after Nomura named Jesse Bhattal president
of a new wholesale division in a bid to stem the flow of
departures by former Lehman bankers. Bhattal is the first
foreigner on the Japanese bank’s executive management committee.  
 The focus on financial rewards among former Lehman workers
collided with values at Nomura, where managers put a premium on
loyalty and obedience, said Katsunobu Komizo, who runs Tokyo-
based Executive Search Partners, a financial-services
recruitment firm whose clients include Nomura.  
 Nomura executives may have been surprised by the
willingness among Lehman workers to jump ship after receiving
their bonuses, said Ralph Silva, analyst at London-based Silva
Research Network, which specializes in financial services.  
 “Nomura has two principal problems: culture and an
aggressive recruitment market,” Silva said.  
 Staff Costs  
 Still, Nomura has “done many things right, in that they
gave strong guarantees going in, and in many cases favored ex-
Lehman professionals for the top jobs,” said Philip Keevil,
senior partner at investment bank Compass Advisers LLP in New
York and a former head of Citigroup Inc.’s European mergers team
in London. “The bankers in Europe will have been protected for
2008 and relatively well rewarded for 2009.”  
 While Nomura’s employee costs swelled with the Lehman
purchase, revenue growth failed to keep up. The Japanese company
trails global competitors such as Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley
and Barclays, generating less revenue from employees.  
 Nomura’s 26,100 employees each generated $137,000 in
revenue on average in the third quarter, less than in the period
ended March 31, 2004. That compares with $434,000 for Goldman
Sachs and $168,000 at Morgan Stanley. Barclays’s investment-
banking unit generated about $200,000 in quarterly revenue per
worker on average last year, according to Bloomberg data.  
 League Rankings  
 The Japanese firm’s return on equity, a measure of how
effectively it uses reinvested earnings to generate returns for
shareholders, was 3.6 percent in the fiscal third quarter,
according to Nomura. Goldman Sachs had an ROE of 32 percent and
Morgan Stanley 2.1 percent in the same period. Barclays’s ROE
was 24 percent for the full-year.  
 While Nomura has been No. 1 in equity underwriting and
mergers and acquisitions in Japan for three straight years,
Watanabe, 57, has yet to show how the Lehman purchase will vault
it into the top echelons overseas. Nomura ranked 16th in
advising on stock sales in Asia outside Japan in the year
through March and 35th in Europe, Bloomberg data show.  
 Nomura has attempted to expand overseas before, and
retreated. As easy credit and a strong yen fueled a boom in
Japanese real estate and stock prices in the 1980s, Nomura
became the world’s biggest financial institution in April 1987,
with a market value 18 times that of Merrill Lynch & Co.  
 Guy Hands  
 After the Japanese bubble burst, Nomura developed niche
businesses including commercial-mortgage-backed-securities in
the U.S. and private equity in Europe under Guy Hands. The bank
retreated from the U.S. market after posting a $600 million loss
on U.S. mortgage bonds in the six months ended September 1998.
In 2002, Hands left to start his own firm with Nomura’s backing.  
 Nomura’s success as a global firm may hinge on whether it
manages to build a viable U.S. business. With Barclays snagging
Lehman’s assets in the world’s largest economy, Nomura was left
with a “hole in the global network, particularly in the
corporate side,” said Keevil of Compass Advisers.  
 Watanabe is spending part of the $7.5 billion Nomura raised
in share sales since March 2009 on mending that hole. The firm
increased its U.S. workforce to about 1,640 people at the end of
December, from 1,080 nine months earlier. Nomura may add
“dozens” more people in the U.S., Chief Financial Officer
Masafumi Nakada said in February.  
 The task for Watanabe is to balance spending on expansion
with making sure key employees are rewarded enough to keep them
from departing.  
 “Bankers are leaving Nomura because they know they won’t
be able to expect big bonuses next year,” said Executive Search
Partners’s Komizo. “No big revenue, no big bonuses.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A woman cycles past the Nomura Holdings Inc. headquarters in Tokyo, Japan, on Wednesday, Oct. 28, 2009. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
