-- North Carolina's Wake County Taps `Seller's Market' as Muni Issuance Ebbs
-- Brendan A. McGrail
-- 2010-04-26T22:16:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/north-carolina-s-wake-county-taps-seller-s-market-as-muni-issuance-ebbs.html

          
          
             Wake County, home to North
Carolina’s state capital, is leading issuers selling $4.2
billion of municipal bonds this week, the least debt in a non-
holiday shortened week since September.  
 Total visible supply for the next 30 days rose to $7.5
billion after reaching a one-month low on April 23, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Top-rated 10-year tax-exempts
yielded 85.3 percent of comparable-maturity Treasuries April 23
after touching 86.1 percent April 22, the highest since Feb. 1.  
 “In a lot of ways it will be a seller’s market, given the
fact that there’s not a lot of supply,” said Tom Kozlik,
municipal-credit analyst for Janney Montgomery Scott in
Philadelphia. “One of the largest issuers in a lower-volume
week might have an advantage because of that.” Issuance is the
lowest in a non-holiday week since the period ending Sept. 11.  
 Ten-year, top-rated tax-exempt debt was little changed at
3.22 percent today, after reaching a nine-month high of 3.3
percent April 12, according to Municipal Market Advisors. Ten-
year Treasury yields were little changed at 3.81 percent, after
touching almost 4 percent on April 5.  
 Top-rated Wake County, with a population of about 900,000
in the center of the state, is home to the capital of Raleigh as
well as part of Research Triangle Park, where companies
including IBM Corp. have offices.  
 County Jobless Rate  
 The county’s 9.2 percent jobless rate in January compared
with the state average of 11.7 percent, according to Moody’s
Investors Service. The national rate was 9.7 percent that month.
The region’s median household income is 24 percent above the
national level, according to Fitch Ratings.  
 This week’s general obligation bonds are backed by the
county’s “full faith and credit and unlimited taxing power,”
Rachel Barkley and Barbara Rosenberg wrote in Fitch’s assessment
of the deal.  
 The municipality is issuing the securities through
competitive bidding, which debt manager Nicole Kreiser said will
lower borrowing costs. The bids and sale, which is being used to
refinance existing borrowings, are set for April 28, she said.  
 “We bid our bonds because we feel that is the way to
ensure we get the best rate,” Kreiser said.  
 Not including this sale, Wake County has $1.79 billion in
general obligations outstanding, according to Moody’s.  
 Wake County sold $435 million of general obligations in
March of last year, with 15-year bonds priced to yield 4.24
percent, or 24 basis points below yields on comparably rated
tax-exempts at the time, according to MMA data. Those securities
traded at an average yield of 3.36 percent on April 16, which is
29 basis points below top-rated debt maturing in 2024, Bloomberg
data show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan A. McGrail in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        