-- Financial Overhaul Bill Faces Showdown in Senate Vote
-- Phil Mattingly
-- 2010-04-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/obama-s-financial-services-overhaul-bill-faces-senate-showdown-vote-today.html

          
          
             The Senate is set to hold a test
vote today on a Democratic plan to overhaul regulation of Wall
Street, a showdown with political risks for both sides.  
 Democrats, who control the Senate with a 59-41 majority,
need the support of at least one Republican to get the 60 votes
required to open debate on the bill. While lead negotiators said
yesterday they were moving closer to a compromise, there was no
sign that any of the Republicans would break ranks in time for
the procedural vote expected at 5 p.m. in Washington.  
 “It’s my expectation that we will not go forward with this
partisan bill,” Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, a
Kentucky Republican, said yesterday on “Fox News Sunday.”
“This is not a situation where anybody I know in the Senate
wants no bill to pass. But it is important to pass a good
bill.”  
 Democrats are seeking to advance legislation, sought by
President Barack Obama, to redesign rules governing the
financial services industry in response to the worst economic
crisis since the Great Depression. The measure is aimed at
averting a repeat of the $700 billion in taxpayer-funded aid to
firms including Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp.  
 Republicans say a “no” vote would allow them to gain
leverage and win concessions from Democrats in negotiations.
Democrats will use Republican opposition to argue they are
obstructing Wall Street reform.  
 Issue for Voters  
 “If the Republicans do not want Wall Street reform, if
they don’t think we should change the rules of oversight and
regulation on the banks and major financial institutions, this
is a major issue to be taken to the voters in November,”
Illinois Senator Richard Durbin, the second-ranking Democrat,
said on April 23 at a Chicago news conference. “Those who want
to stand on the side of Wall Street are welcome to do that.”  
 Senate Banking Committee Chairman Christopher Dodd, the
Connecticut Democrat who wrote the bill, and Alabama Senator
Richard Shelby, the banking panel’s top Republican, are in talks
to reach a bipartisan compromise.  
 The final bill will include Senate Agriculture Committee
Chairman Blanche Lincoln’s provision that would force lenders to
wall off their swaps trading desks from their commercial banks,
according to a Democratic Senate aide briefed on the talks.  
 Lincoln, an Arkansas Democrat, won committee approval on
April 21 for a measure that would bar swaps dealers from bank
privileges such as access to the Federal Reserve’s discount
lending window, emergency liquidity functions and the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp.’s deposit guarantee.  
 Republicans  
 Senator Charles Grassley, an Iowa Republican, joined
Democrats in voting to send Lincoln’s bill to the Senate floor.  
 Another Republican, Senator Olympia Snowe of Maine,
expressed support for parts of Lincoln’s plan in an April 23
letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid that was also signed
by six Senate Democrats.  
 Dodd and Shelby said yesterday on NBC’s “Meet The Press”
that while they have made progress, they didn’t have a deal.
Shelby said he doubted they’d have one by today’s vote.  
 Unified opposition “may be the only leverage we have,”
Senator John Cornyn, a Texas Republican, said April 21 after a
private Republican meeting on the legislation.  
 If Republicans succeed in forcing changes to the bill, they
can tell voters they helped strengthen the measure.  
 Voter Anger  
 Both sides are trying to tap into voter anger at Wall
Street and the bank bailout that took place as Americans
grappled with record home foreclosures and rising unemployment.  
 Republicans argue the Democratic measure would set up a
permanent bailout of Wall Street banks and create new
bureaucracies. Democrats say the legislation would save the
government from having to step in with taxpayer money to wind
down financial firms whose collapse would disrupt the economy.  
 “It’s a lose-lose for Republicans,” said Paul Miller, an
analyst at FBR Capital Markets in Arlington, Virginia. “Anybody
who votes against this, it will be used against them in any
election coming up.”  
 Democrats say a vote will bring to a head months of on-
again, off-again talks between Republicans and Democrats that
have failed to produce an agreement.  
 “A vote is the only way we have to show whether they are
sincere in getting something done or cloaking their obstruction
behind a ‘more time’ argument,” Jim Manley, a spokesman for
Reid, said on April 23.  
 Geithner  
 Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner has held a series of
private meetings over the last few weeks with Republicans,
including Maine Senators Snowe and Susan Collins, to gain their
support for the bill.  
 “On balance, there are a very strong number of Republicans
who want to be for a strong set of reforms,” Geithner said
yesterday in an interview on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS”
program. “I say this on the basis of what they tell me in
private.”  
 The vote comes a day before Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief
Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein and six current and former
Goldman Sachs employees will testify before the Senate’s
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations. The Securities and
Exchange Commission on April 16 sued Goldman Sachs, alleging the
bank defrauded investors when selling a debt instrument tied to
mortgages. Goldman Sachs denies wrongdoing.  
 The House approved its financial regulation plan in
December, and the two chambers’ bills would have to be
reconciled before the measure could go to Obama. The bills are
based on his proposal to create a consumer protection agency,
strengthen oversight of hedge funds and derivatives and set up a
council of regulators to monitor the financial system for
systemic risk.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Alison Vekshin in Washington at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports on major newsmakers in today's Movers & Shakers. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
