-- Oil Falls for Second Day on Stronger Dollar, Forecast of U.S. Supply Gain
-- Ann Koh
-- 2010-04-27T07:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/oil-extends-decline-on-dollar-s-gains-forecast-of-increased-u-s-supplies.html

          
          
             Oil fell for a second day as the
dollar gained and analysts forecast that U.S. crude supplies
increased, signaling fuel demand in the world’s biggest energy
user may be slow to recover.  
 Oil dropped 1.1 percent yesterday as the greenback advanced
on concern the Greek bailout plan faces hurdles and as credit
default swaps in Portugal, Western Europe’s poorest country,
show investors rank its debt as the world’s eighth-riskiest. U.S.
crude inventories probably rose 1 million barrels last week,
according to analysts surveyed before an Energy Department
report tomorrow.  
 “It’s like a ticking time bomb in Europe,” said Clarence
Chu, a trader with options dealer Hudson Capital Energy in
Singapore. “At some point they can’t keep pumping in cash. That
will really cripple the recovery and affect oil.”  
 Crude oil for June delivery fell as much as 67 cents, or
0.8 percent, to $83.53 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange, and was at $83.65 at 3 p.m. Singapore
time. Yesterday, the contract declined 92 cents to $84.20 a
barrel after reaching $85.63, the highest intraday level in more
than a week.  
 The dollar traded near its strongest level in almost three
weeks versus the yen on speculation the Federal Reserve is
moving closer to withdrawing stimulus as the U.S. economic
recovery gathers momentum.  
 The U.S. currency was at $1.3368 per euro at 1:38 p.m.
Singapore time from $1.3383 in New York yesterday. A stronger
dollar limits investor need for commodities to hedge against
inflation. The dollar traded at 93.76 yen from 93.96 yesterday,
when it touched 94.36, the strongest level since April 6.  
 U.S. Regulation  
 After the market closed, U.S. Senate Republicans blocked
Democrats from advancing their plan to overhaul Wall Street
regulation, saying they want to force changes before beginning
full debate.  
 “We’ve got the Greek sovereign debt issue burning away in
the background, and we also had the Senate Democrats proposing
new legislation on the derivative markets, which I don’t think
can be construed as a positive thing for commodity and equity
markets,” Toby Hassall, a commodity analyst at CWA Global
Markets Pty in Sydney, said in a telephone interview.  
 Tomorrow’s U.S. government report will probably show
gasoline inventories climbed 500,000 barrels from 225 million
the prior week, according to analyst estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. Stockpiles of distillate fuel, a category that
includes heating oil and diesel, were estimated to have risen
1.25 million barrels.  Refinery operating rates are estimated to
have been unchanged last week, after five weeks of gains, the
survey shows.  
 “We’re yet to see significant recovery in demand,” CWA’s
Hassall said. “Looking at the trend, it doesn’t suggest that
U.S. oil demand is recovering rapidly.”  
 Brent crude for June settlement fell as much as 39 cents,
or 0.5 percent, to $86.44 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange, and was at $86.63 a barrel at 3:01 p.m.
Singapore time. Yesterday, the contract declined 42 cents, or
0.5 percent, to $86.83.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at   akoh15@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        