-- Oil, Copper, Rubber Climb on Global Economic Recovery; Soybeans Advance
-- Gavin Evans
-- 2010-04-26T08:49:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/oil-copper-rubber-climb-on-global-economic-recovery-soybeans-advance.html

          
          
             Crude oil, copper and rubber
climbed on speculation a recovering global economy led by China
will boost consumption of commodities. Soybeans gained to a
three-month high on optimism demand will increase for U.S. crops.  
 Oil rose 0.2 percent to $85.25 a barrel at 4:45 p.m. in
Singapore, extending a 1.7 percent advance on Friday, while
copper was up 0.9 percent and rubber gained 1.6 percent.
Soybeans advanced as much as 1 percent to $10.20 a bushel, the
highest level since Jan. 11.  
 China will keep its “relatively easy” monetary policy,
Central Bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said in a statement at an
International Monetary Fund meeting, even as the country
tightened real-estate financing by requiring developers to
submit fund-raising plans for review. U.S. consumer spending
probably rose at a 3.1 percent annual rate last quarter,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 “Data on the economic side, especially in the U.S., are
getting much, much better than expected,” said Tetsu Emori, a
commodity fund manager at Astmax Co. in Tokyo.  
 China will continue with “stable and relatively rapid”
growth this year, while balancing “inflation expectations,”
Zhou said. The central government projects gross domestic
product growth of about 8 percent and an inflation rate of 3
percent this year, the statement said.  
 The increase in U.S. consumer spending last quarter was
probably almost double the 1.6 percent pace of the previous
three months, according to the economists’ survey. A Conference
Board report may show its measure of consumer confidence rose
this month to 53.5 from 52.5, according to the survey median.  
 Crude Oil  
 Crude oil for June delivery rose as much as 51 cents, or
0.6 percent, to $85.63 a barrel in after-hours electronic
trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  
 Iraq, OPEC’s third-largest producer, will resume oil
shipments on its Kirkuk-to-Ceyhan pipeline mid-week once blast
repairs are completed, North Oil Co. said at the weekend.  
 Copper rose for a second day as Greece moved toward
securing an emergency aid package, abating concerns of an
economic slowdown in the euro region. Three-month copper on the
London Metal Exchange advanced as much as 1.5 percent to $7,865
a metric ton and traded at $7,818 at 4:47 p.m. in Singapore.  
 Rubber futures gained as much as 2.9 percent to 324.7 yen a
kilogram on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange and ended at 320.7 yen.  
 Soybeans were up 0.8 percent at $10.1775 a bushel at 4:46
p.m. Singapore time. Corn and soybeans may rise this week on
speculation that cold, wet weather in China will hurt production,
boosting demand for supplies from the U.S., the world’s top
exporter of both crops, a survey of traders and analysts showed.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
James Poole at   
          
          


  


        