-- TomTom Shares Soar on Unexpected First-Quarter Profit
-- Maud van Gaal
-- 2010-04-26T15:45:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/tomtom-reports-unexpected-profit-on-sales-of-automotive-navigation-devices.html

          
          
             TomTom NV, Europe’s biggest maker
of portable navigation devices, soared the most in nine months
in Amsterdam trading after reporting an unexpected first-
quarter profit as it sold more mapping instruments to car
companies and increased revenue from content and services.  
 The shares of the Amsterdam-based company rose 9.8 percent
to 6.57 euros, the biggest gain since July 22.  
 Net income was 2.9 million euros ($3.9 million), or 1 cent
a share, compared with a loss of 37 million euros, or 25 cents,
a year earlier, the Amsterdam-based company said in a statement
today. That beat the average estimate of a loss of 8.4 million
euros in a survey of five analysts by Bloomberg. The company
maintained its forecast for broadly flat revenue and earnings
per share in 2010.  
 TomTom, which competes with Garmin Ltd. and Google Inc.,
aims to get more revenue from maps, services and built-in
systems in cars as sales of portable navigation devices slow
and competition from map-related services on smartphones
increases. Chief Executive Officer Harold Goddijn is stepping
up spending on development and marketing this year after
cutting costs by 127 million euros in 2009 to counter a drop in
demand amid the global recession.  
 “Automotive grew considerably and they have concluded new
relations with Ford and Alfa Romeo,” said Jos Versteeg, an
Amsterdam-based analyst at Theodoor Gilissen Bankiers NV.
“That is good news as future growth will have to come from
this segment.” Versteeg, who recommends clients buy the
shares, said “the numbers are encouraging.”  
 Revenue Jumps  
 First-quarter sales rose 26 percent to 268 million euros,
the company said. That beat the 253 million-euro average
estimate of 14 analysts. Sales in the first three months of
2009 were hurt as retailers and distributors let their
inventories dwindle.  
 Sales in TomTom’s consumer business rose 16 percent to 186
million euros as revenue from hardware, content and services
grew. Revenue in the automotive segment rose to 39 million
euros from 12 million euros, mainly driven by increased
shipments to Renault SA.  
 Automotive Customers  
 TomTom forged new sales agreements with Fiat SpA’s Alfa
Romeo brand and Ford Motor Co. in the first quarter. The
company can’t quantify the effect on results from these
agreements yet, Goddijn told reporters on a conference call
today, “but they are important wins.”  
 Navigation device prices fell 10 percent in the first
three months to 89 euros compared with a year earlier and rose
13 percent compared with the previous quarter. The decline in
average selling prices for PNDs will probably slow further in
2010 from a 21 percent drop last year, Goddijn said in
February. “Prices in PND business have been relatively stable,
that is a bit of good news,” he said today.  
 PND’s accounted for 53 percent of sales according to
Bloomberg calculations, down from 66 percent in the first
quarter of 2009.  
 The company will no longer report average selling prices
and volumes for devices starting from the second quarter as
“the growing services component of our PND revenue will make
it increasingly difficult to compare” average selling
prices,” it said in the statement.  
 Gross Margin  
 TomTom’s gross margin, or the percentage of revenue left
after subtracting manufacturing costs, rose to 54 percent from
50 percent a year earlier. The margin was helped by a larger
proportion of revenue from Europe and foreign exchange effects,
Goddijn said.  
 Later this year the company will feel some effects of
component prices “stiffening” and capacity getting tighter,
Goddijn told reporters today. “We are watching that very
closely.”  
 Before today, the company’s shares dropped 26 percent in
Amsterdam trading since Oct. 28, when Google announced free
turn-by-turn navigation in the U.S. for users of its Android
mobile-phone software.  
 Nokia Oyj, the world’s biggest maker of mobile phones,
followed suit this year, adding to competition for makers of
navigation devices. The company last week said 10 million Nokia
smartphone users have downloaded its Ovi Maps.  
 TomTom said in February it was seeing “limited impact”
on revenue from digital maps being offered on smartphones or
mobile Internet applications. At the time, the company forecast
full-year revenue and earnings per share to be “broadly flat”
in 2010, “bearing in mind that free turn-by-turn navigation on
some smartphone platforms will be available in our major
markets.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        