-- Tiger Asia Trading Ban Sought by Hong Kong Regulator on New Allegations
-- Bei Hu
-- 2010-04-26T11:05:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/hong-kong-regulator-seeks-to-freeze-tiger-asia-assets-for-insider-trading.html

          
          
             Hong Kong’s securities regulator is
seeking to ban Tiger Asia Management LLC from trading all
securities and derivatives listed in the city over fresh
allegations of insider trading, the first time it has appealed
to a court to prohibit a company from trading in the market.  
 The Securities and Futures Commission is also asking the
court to freeze as much as HK$8.6 million ($1.1 million) in
additional Tiger Asia assets, it said in an e-mailed statement
today. The SFC alleges that the New York-based hedge fund
led by Bill Hwang engaged in insider trading of Bank of China
Ltd. shares. A call to Hwang’s New York office outside of
business hours wasn’t answered.  
 Insider dealing and market manipulation allegations
involving China Construction Bank Corp. shares led the
commission last year to seek a court injunction to freeze some
assets of Tiger Asia, Hwang and two executives. Hong Kong is
home to Asia’s third-largest stock market and acts as a gateway
to China, whose bourses are closed to most foreign investors.  
 Tiger Asia is one of the so-called Tiger cubs, or group of
hedge fund managers that received backing from Julian Robertson.
The investor founded Tiger Management LLC in 1980 and built it
into one of the world’s largest hedge fund managers in the late
1990s before returning clients’ money in 2000.  
 Bank of China  
 In its latest application, the SFC said Tiger Asia received
advance notices and was invited to participate in placements of
Bank of China shares by UBS AG on Dec. 31, 2008, and by Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc on Jan. 13, 2009.  
 The hedge fund manager was given details of the placements
under confidentiality agreements and consented not to deal in
the shares of China’s third-largest bank. It then proceeded to
short sell 104 million Bank of China shares before the UBS
placement, grossing HK$8.6 million of profit, the SFC statement
said. Shorting involves selling borrowed shares in a company in
expectation of buying them back at a lower price later.  
 It also sold 256 million of the Chinese bank’s shares
before the RBS placement, losing about HK$10 million on the
trade, the statement added. The SFC said both trades represented
illegal insider trading.  
 The new allegations would be heard by the court in the same
proceedings that will consider the regulator’s allegations
involving Construction Bank shares. A court date hasn’t been set,
according to the statement.  
 Freezing Assets  
 The SFC applied for a Hong Kong High Court injunction to
freeze up to HK$29.9 million in assets of Tiger Asia, founder
Hwang, officers Raymond Park and William Tomita, it said in an
August statement.  
 The amount was equivalent to the gains they made from
trading shares of Construction Bank, China’s second-largest
lender, on Jan. 6, 2009, just before Bank of America Corp.
announced the sale of $2.8 billion worth of shares in the
Chinese company, the SFC said at the time.  
 Hwang, Park and Tomita didn’t immediately reply to an e-
mail sent today seeking comment on the new allegations.  
 The SFC alleged Hwang made the trading decisions in both
cases. Park is Tiger Asia’s head of trading, and Tomita supports
trading activities, today’s statement said.  
 All of Tiger Asia’s employees are based in New York, the
SFC said today. The hedge fund manager, which has specialized in
trading equities in China, Japan and South Korea since its
inception in 2001, doesn’t have an office in Hong Kong, it said.  
 Construction Bank  
 Tiger Asia was approached by a placing agent before market
opening on Jan. 6, 2009, to participate in the planned Bank of
America placement of Construction Bank shares, the SFC said in
August. Tiger Asia was informed of the size and discount range
of the share offering, it said.  
 Tiger Asia and the three officers were aware of the
confidential and price sensitive nature of the information, the
SFC said in August. The firm short-sold 93 million Construction
Bank shares on Jan. 6, 2009, before the public announcement of
the placement, it said.  
 It closed the short positions by buying the placement
shares on Jan. 7, 2009, at a price cheaper than the prevailing
market price, reaping the HK$29.9 million profit, the SFC said
in August. Tiger Asia was also accused of downward manipulation
of Construction Bank shares on Jan. 6, 2009, at the time of the
short sales, the commission said.  
 The SFC sought a ban on Tiger Asia and the three officers
from trading listed securities and derivatives in Hong Kong “in
similar circumstances,” it said in the August statement.  
 In both applications, the SFC is seeking to unwind the
allegedly illegal trades and restore Tiger Asia’s counterparties
to their previous holdings, the statements said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        