-- Ex-Trading Exec at Goldman Faulted CDO Deal in E-Mail
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-04-27T00:34:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/montag-described-cdo-as-one-shi-y-deal-in-goldman-sachs-internal-e-mail.html

          
          
             Thomas Montag, the former head of
sales and trading in the Americas at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
called a set of mortgage-linked investments sold by his firm
“one shi**y deal,” according to an excerpt from internal
e-mails released by Senate lawmakers.  
 The transaction was Timberwolf Ltd., a $1 billion
collateralized debt obligation holding pieces of other CDOs,
according to a statement from the Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations. The CDO also included optimistic side-bets on
the performance of CDOs, derivatives in which the firm took the
opposite pessimistic side in “many” cases, the panel said.  
 “Boy that timberwo[l]f was one shi**y deal,” Montag, who
is now Bank of America Corp.’s president of global banking and
markets, said in a June 22, 2007, e-mail to Daniel Sparks, who
ran Goldman Sachs’s mortgage business at the time, according to
the statement yesterday. Within five months of Timberwolf’s
debut, the CDO had lost 80 percent of its value, and it was
liquidated in 2008, according to the panel.  
 The CDO was among securities that Goldman Sachs sold to
clients after deciding the New York-based firm needed to reduce
its mortgage holdings, Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat who leads
the panel, said in the statement. Chief Executive Officer Lloyd
Blankfein and six other current and former executives will
testify today in front of the panel about practices in mortgage
securities markets before they collapsed.  
 Truncated Text  
 The committee, which began to release documents before
today’s hearing, didn’t release the full text of the e-mails. A
person briefed on the Timberwolf e-mail confirmed that Montag
was the author.  
 Montag, now 53, didn’t respond to a request for comment and
Bank of America spokeswoman Jessica Oppenheim had no immediate
comment. Blankfein, 55, will tell the panel his firm didn’t
wager against clients, according to a prepared text of his
remarks.  
 “We respectfully disagree with Chairman Levin’s
statement,” according to an e-mail from Goldman Sachs spokesman
Lucas van Praag. “We did not have a big bet against the housing
market, as our performance in residential mortgages
demonstrates, and we believe we at all times worked
appropriately with our clients. We did try to manage our risk,
as our shareholders and regulators would expect.”  
 The Timberwolf CDO was issued in March 2007, following a
Goldman Sachs quarter that ended February 2007 in which one
department of the bank shifted from $6 billion of bets that
mortgage bonds would perform to $10 billion they would default,
according to Bloomberg data and information the panel released.  
 Cioffi Buys  
 Bear Stearns Asset Management, the manager of two hedge
funds overseen by Ralph Cioffi whose collapse in June 2007
roiled global markets, was among the buyers, purchasing about
$300 million, according to the committee.  
 Sparks, who left the bank in 2008, in one e-mail urged
“personnel working on a potential Korean sale to ‘[g]et ‘er
done,’ and sent a mass e-mail to the sales force promising
’ginormous credits’ for selling” the debt, according to Levin’s
statement. “A congratulatory e-mail was sent to an employee who
sold a number of the securities: ‘Great job … trading us out of
our entire Timberwolf Single-A position,’ ” the panel said,
potentially referring to $36 million of A-rated notes.  
 Montag’s Career  
 Montag retired from Goldman Sachs in December 2007, and was
recruited in April 2008 by then Merrill Lynch & Co. CEO John A.
Thain to his firm. Merrill Lynch was bought by Bank of America
in a government-assisted deal at the start of 2009.  
 Montag started his career at Goldman Sachs in 1985 as an
associate in the bank’s fixed-income, currencies and commodities
department. Blankfein said in a memo when he left that “since
that time, Tom has played a leading role in the development of
the firm’s derivatives businesses in Europe and Asia.”  
 CDOs repackage pools of assets such as mortgage bonds, bank
capital notes and buyout loans into new securities with varying
risks. While Timberwolf was initially intended to be about half
invested in mortgage-bond CDOs and half invested in
collateralized loan obligations tied to company debt, the bank
sold many of its “best-performing” CLOs separately after a
rebound in their values, Levin’s statement said.  
 Levin’s committee also released e-mails with references to
Hudson Mezzanine 2006-1, Anderson Mezzanine 2007-1 and Abacus
2007-AC1, the CDO at the heart of a Securities and Exchange
Commission suit filed April 16 against Goldman Sachs.  
 CDO Managers  
 The U.S. claims Goldman Sachs misled investors by failing
to disclose that hedge fund Paulson & Co. -- which was betting
against the U.S. mortgage market -- helped the Abacus CDO
manager select securities to include in the portfolio. Goldman
Sachs has called the SEC’s lawsuit “completely unfounded.”
Paulson wasn’t accused of any wrongdoing.  
 CDO managers select the collateral going into the vehicles,
and sometimes reinvest as the underlying positions pay down and
trade in and out of holdings.  
 In Timberwolf’s case, the manager was Purchase, New York-
based Greywolf Capital Management LP. The firm’s partners
included the late Greg Mount, who joined in 2005 after nine
years at Goldman Sachs, where he helped build its CDOs business,
according to the prospectus and the firm’s website.  
 Greywolf, which focuses on corporate debt and says on its
Web site it manages $848 million, planned to buy $41 million of
the CDO’s junior-most tranches, according to the prospectus. In
January 2007, Goldman Sachs underwrote a $502 million CLO
managed by Greywolf tied to high-yield company loans, according
to Bloomberg data.  
 Conflicts Disclosed  
 The conflicts of interest section of Timberwolf’s
prospectus said that Greywolf might “take into consideration
research and other brokerage services” from investment banks in
its decision-making for the CDO and also make separate
investments with “interests different from or adverse to” the
CDO’s collateral.  
 “Under the terms of the Collateral Management Agreement,”
Greywolf “will be permitted to take whatever action is in the
Collateral Manager’s best interest regardless of the impact on
the Collateral Assets,” according to the prospectus.  
 Mount died last April, the company said in a statement at
the time. Shawn Pattison, a spokesman for Greywolf, declined to
immediately comment.
     On Goldman Sachs’s role, the prospectus said the firm would
act as the sole counterparty for the bullish derivative bets on
CDOs that the vehicle was making through so-called credit-
default swaps, “which creates concentration risk and may create
certain conflicts of interest.”  
 The Goldman trader responsible for managing Timberwolf’s
issuance later characterized the day that the CDO was created as
“a day that will live in infamy,” according to part of an
e-mail released by the panel.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     People walk outside Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s new headquarters building at 200 West Street in New York, on April 19, 2010. Photographer: JB Reed/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Lloyd Blankfein, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s chairman and chief executive officer, will tell a Senate committee tomorrow that the firm didn't wager against clients and didn't make a big bet against the housing market.
     "We didn't have a massive short against the housing market and we certainly did not bet against our clients," Blankfein, 55, will tell the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, according to a prepared text of his remarks. Bloomberg's Julie Hyman reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Lloyd C. Blankfein, chairman and chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., center, walks with Gary D. Cohn, Goldman's president and chief operating officer, prior to a speech by U.S. President Barack Obama about financial reform at Cooper Union in New York on April 22, 2010. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     People walk outside Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s new headquarters building at 200 West Street in New York, on April 19, 2010. Photographer: JB Reed/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
