-- Options Bets Against U.S. Retailers Double as Earnings Estimates Advance
-- Matt Townsend
-- 2010-04-26T20:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/options-bets-against-retailers-in-u-s-double-as-analysts-boost-estimates.html

          
          
             Traders have doubled their bearish
bets against U.S. retailers in the options market, speculating
next month’s reports on sales and unemployment will disappoint
investors after a record 12-week rally.  
 The ratio of puts to sell the SPDR S&P Retail exchange-
traded fund versus calls to buy it has jumped to 4.1-to-1, close
to the highest level since August, and put trading surged to a
nine-month high on April 23. Wagers are most concentrated on
contracts that pay off should the ETF fall 18 percent by May 21.  
 Derivatives traders are diverging from equity analysts, who
have increased 2010 profit growth forecasts for the industry to
9.5 percent from 8.8 percent at the beginning of April,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Reports next week may
show sales at retailers slumped this month and the U.S.
unemployment rate held at 9.7 percent, the International Council
of Shopping Centers and economists said, while data released
April 7 showed consumer credit shrank in February.  
 “Retailers face contracting credit, high unemployment and
no real visible spending catalyst on the horizon,” said Kevin
Nichols, vice president for ETF strategy at Newedge Group in New
York. “The put-call ratio has doubled since the beginning of
the year. That magnitude of increase usually marks a directional
bet, more so than a hedge.”  
 Wal-Mart, Amazon.com  
 By purchasing puts on the ETF, traders are betting against
companies from Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the largest retailer, to
online merchant Seattle-based Amazon.com Inc. and business-
supplies seller Office Depot Inc. in Boca Raton, Florida. The
62-company security has risen 28 percent to a record $45.40 this
year, or triple the gain by the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  
 Same-store sales at 31 U.S. retail chains rose 9 percent in
March from a year ago and may be unchanged or decline 3 percent
this month, the New York-based International Council of Shopping
Centers said. Most chains report sales on May 6. While revenue
increased in the first three months of this year, the gain came
in comparison to a year earlier when the economy was in the
depths of the worst recession since the 1930s.  
 The Labor Department’s May 7 report may show the U.S.
unemployment rate is still near the 26-year high of 10.1 percent
reached in October, according to the median estimate of 13
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Consumer credit fell by $11.5
billion in February, 16 times more than forecast and the 12th
contraction in 13 months, the Federal Reserve said April 7.  
 12 Straight Weeks  
 The retailer ETF has risen 12 straight weeks. All but two
stocks have advanced this year, led by rallies of at least 80
percent for Los Gatos, California-based Netflix Inc. and
AnnTaylor Stores Corp. in New York.  
 David Schick, a retail analyst for Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
Baltimore, said that Americans are still wary of spending.  
 “You have to see jobs and a perception of jobs to continue
to move in the right direction,” Schick said. “That could turn
the easy comparison momentum into real momentum. It’s a long way
from seeing that happen. It doesn’t mean it won’t. We just don’t
know if that’s the outcome yet.”  
 Many U.S. retail chains report April sales at stores open
at least a year on May 6. About 70 including Wal-Mart of
Bentonville, Arkansas; Cincinnati-based Macy’s Inc., the second-
largest U.S. department-store company; and Minneapolis-based
Target Corp., the second-largest U.S. discount chain, report
quarterly results during the two-week period that ends May 21,
which is also the day that next month’s options expire.  
 Triple the Average  
 Options strategists including those at Susquehanna
International Group LLP have noted higher-than-average volume
for bearish options on the retail ETF since April 13, when put
trading surged to 143,486 contracts, the most in almost three
months. Put volume jumped to 99,441 on April 22 and 191,315 on
April 23, triple the four-week average.  
 “The vast majority of recent SPDR S&P Retail flow has
involved protective trading,” strategists at Susquehanna in
Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania, wrote on April 23. Some of the
largest trades were initiated by investors making bearish bets
using options expiring in May, June and September, they said.  
 Outstanding put options have almost quadrupled this year to
879,982 contracts, while open interest for calls has nearly
doubled to 217,232. Puts account for 18 of the ETF’s 20 largest
levels of open interest.  
 May $37 puts are most widely owned, with 70,063 existing
contracts, and their open interest has grown the fastest over
the past two weeks, according to data compiled by Trade Alert
LLC, a New York-based provider of options market analytics. The
retail ETF hasn’t closed below $37 for two months and a decline
to that level would be an 18 percent slide from the last close.  
 “I’ve been seeing institutions accumulate bearish
positions,” said Frederic Ruffy, senior options strategist at
WhatsTrading.com, a New York-based provider of options-market
analysis. “There’s going to be a lot of data in the first week
of May.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Tobias Levkovich, chief U.S. equity strategist at Citigroup Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton about the outlook for U.S. stocks.
     Levkovich also discusses the impact of the economic recovery on equity prices and some of his industry picks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
