-- Orascom to Release `Material News' Amid Speculation of Sale to MTN Group
-- Alaa Shahine
-- 2010-04-26T13:55:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/orascom-telecom-of-egypt-says-it-plans-to-release-material-news-tomorrow.html

          
          
             Orascom Telecom Holding SAE, the
Middle East’s biggest publicly traded mobile-phone company, said
it will release “material news” tomorrow amid speculation it
will sell parts of the business to Africa’s MTN Group Ltd.  
 The Cairo-based company didn’t provide further details in a
statement sent to the Egyptian Exchange today. Trading of
Orascom Telecom’s shares in Egypt and London were suspended
pending an announcement. MTN, Africa’s biggest mobile operator,
won’t comment beyond an April 23 statement that it’s in talks,
spokeswoman Nozipho January-Bardill said by phone from
Johannesburg today.  
 “The tie-up potential has moved beyond the speculative,”
Nomura London-based analysts Martin Mabbutt and Viktor Shvets
said in a note. “Strategically, some sort of a tie-up would be
in keeping with the stances of both operators who have been
talking of consolidation and expansion for a long time.”  
 MTN approached banks for $5 billion to help fund the
acquisition of units from Orascom in a deal that may be worth as
much as $10 billion, people with knowledge of the plan said
April 22. MTN wants to add new markets to its 21 businesses
across the Middle East and Africa as some of the world’s largest
operators, including Vodafone Plc, seek expansion in Africa to
counter slowing revenue growth in Europe.  
 Orascom’s sale of its Algerian unit, which operates under
the name Djezzy, would allow the company to exit the country
after a tax dispute and damage to its infrastructure in November
following riots after a soccer match between Algeria and Egypt.
Algeria’s government ordered the unit last year to pay $596
million in back taxes, which Orascom said it would appeal.  
 Expecting a Bid  
 MTN fell 31 cents, or 0.3 percent, to 109.69 rand as of
2:56 p.m. in Johannesburg, giving the company a market value of
210.6 billion rand ($27.5 billion). South African markets are
closed tomorrow for Freedom Day celebrations. Orascom has gained
51 percent this year for a market value of 39.66 billion
Egyptian pounds ($7.15 billion).  
 “The market seems to expect some sort of bid, but the key
will be to see if MTN will take all or part of Orascom and
whether they overpay,” said Andrew Todd, a derivatives trader
at Imara S.P. Reid in Johannesburg. “With tomorrow being a
holiday in South Africa, I’d not be buying MTN now.”  
 Orascom operates in North Korea, Bangladesh, Pakistan,
Egypt, Algeria, Tunisia, Central African Republic, Burundi
Namibia and Zimbabwe.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Cairo at   asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        