-- Total May Develop Heavy Crude in Kuwait, Join Refining Project in China
-- Fiona MacDonald
-- 2010-04-26T16:21:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/total-may-develop-heavy-crude-in-kuwait-join-refining-project-in-china.html

          
          
             Total SA, Europe’s third-biggest
oil company, is in talks with Kuwait to develop heavy-crude
deposits using advanced technology to extract fuel from fields
in the country’s north.  
 The company, Europe’s largest refiner, is also considering
joining a planned refinery project in China, Total Chief
Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie said today. China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp. and Kuwait are seeking to build the
plant in the southern city of Zhanjiang.  
 “First you start with the where, how and what we can bring
to the project,” De Margerie told reporters about the heavy oil
plan at the Conference Connection’s Middle East Petroleum and
Gas Conference in Kuwait City. He said Total proposed using its
skill in extracting more difficult crude and using enhanced oil
recovery techniques that can raise production rates.  
 Kuwait, holder of about 8 percent of the world’s crude
reserves, aims to boost output capacity to 4 million barrels a
day by 2020 and maintain that level for about a decade by
expanding its deposits, Oil Minister Sheikh Ahmad Al-Abdullah
Al-Sabah said at the conference today.  
 The country is also holding talks with Exxon Mobil Corp.
about producing heavy oil, Sami al-Rushaid, chairman of state-
run Kuwait Oil Co., told reporters at the conference.  
 Kuwait is in discussions with global oil companies on
enhanced technical service agreements and is “probably months”
away from signing the accords, al-Rushaid said. He declined to
name the companies.  
 ‘Opened the Tide’  
 In February the country signed a service agreement with
Royal Dutch Shell Plc to help develop natural-gas fields in the
country’s north to meet local demand. That “opened the tide”
of interest by international oil companies for joint projects in
Kuwait, the oil minister said.  
 “After signing with Shell it is perceived as a positive
sign and we’ve been approached by most of the major oil
companies,” al-Rushaid said.  
 Total is seeking to revive output growth after Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries reductions and disruptions in
Nigeria led to a 3 percent drop in production last year. The
French explorer is looking at opportunities to gain assets in
Iraq, where the company and partners last year won rights to
develop a crude deposit, De Margerie said.  
 The company is keen to bid on natural-gas-fields for which
the Iraqi government may seek offers from international
companies, he said. Total hasn’t spoken to its partners, China
National Petroleum Corp. and Petroliam Nasional Bhd, on raising
its stake in the Halfaya field in Iraq, De Margerie said.  
 Total will stop shipping gasoline to Iran if any law
imposing sanctions on that trade with the Islamic republic is
passed and makes it illegal, De Margerie said. He said the
company had not approached Saudi Aramco on jointly developing a
refinery project at Yanbu in Western Saudi Arabia.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        