-- Toyota Rises Most in Seven Weeks After Report of Annual Operating Profit
-- Yuki Hagiwara
-- 2010-04-26T06:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/toyota-rises-most-in-seven-weeks-after-report-of-annual-operating-profit.html

          
          
             Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s
biggest carmaker, rose the most in seven weeks in Tokyo after a
report that the company will post a full-year operating profit.  
 The automaker climbed 3.4 percent, the most since March 8,
to close at 3,690 yen. Toyota will probably post operating
profit of as much as 50 billion yen ($530 million) for the year
ended March 31, Nikkei English News reported on April 24,
without saying where it got the information.  
 Toyota, which forecast a 20 billion yen full-year operating
loss on Feb. 4, may have turned to a profit after it cut costs
and a weaker yen raised revenue from overseas, the report said.
Stock market gains in the U.S. and Europe on April 23 also
boosted the carmaker, said Hiroichi Nishi, a Tokyo-based
equities manager at Nikko Cordial Securities Inc.  
 “The yen cheapened against the euro and dollar,” Nishi
said. “Shares in Europe and the U.S. also bounced back. For
these reasons, investors are positive about Toyota’s shares.”  
 The maker of Corolla cars may post 44.4 billion yen in
operating profit for the year, according to the average of nine
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg this month.  
 Ririko Takeuchi, a spokeswoman for the Toyota City, Japan-
based carmaker, declined to comment on the report. Toyota will
announce earnings on May 11.  
 Yen’s Decline  
 The yen fell to 126.22 per euro as of 11:04 a.m. in Tokyo
from 125.73 in New York on April 23. The Japanese currency
dropped to 94.31 yen per dollar, from 93.97 in New York.  
 Toyota’s earnings for the year started April 1 may be
eroded as the automaker deals with as much as $2 billion in lost
sales and warranty repairs after recalling more than 8 million
vehicles globally for defects related to braking and unintended
acceleration.  
 Last week, the carmaker recalled its Lexus GX 460 SUV and
agreed to pay a record $16.4 million U.S. fine, further damaging
its reputation for safety under President Akio Toyoda.  
 The automaker’s credit rating was cut by Moody’s Investors
Service last week, and Fitch Ratings said it may also downgrade
Toyota as the recalls devastate profit. Toyota faces a
“material risk” that its operating profit margin will remain
well below what is appropriate for its rating “until 2012 at
the earliest and possibly beyond,” Moody’s analyst Tadashi Usui
wrote.  
 Sluggish demand, overcapacity, the need to provide
incentives beyond normal levels to boost sales and “a real risk
that its product quality problems have eroded significantly and
permanently its historical advantages in pricing power,” could
all negatively affect Toyota’s profitability, Moody’s Usui wrote.  
 The carmaker in March started offering no-interest loans,
discount leases and free maintenance for U.S. customers.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Terje Langeland in Tokyo at 
 tlangeland1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 23 (Bloomberg) -- Yasuhiro Matsumoto, an analyst at Shinsei Securities Co. in Tokyo, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about Toyota Motor Corp. 
     Toyota's credit rating was cut yesterday by Moody's Investors Service, and Fitch Ratings said it may also downgrade the world's biggest carmaker as recalls of more than 8 million vehicles ravage profit. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
