-- PAI's Christian Hansen Seeks $602 Million in May Initial Public Offering
-- Frances Schwartzkopff
-- 2010-04-26T09:50:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/pai-s-christian-hansen-seeks-602-million-in-may-initial-public-offering.html

          
          
             Christian Hansen Holding A/S, the
Danish maker of food ingredients owned by private equity firm
PAI Partners, plans to raise 450 million euros ($602 million) in
an initial public offering.  
 Credit Suisse Group AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co. will manage
the sale, with Morgan Stanley, SEB Enskilda Equities and Danske
Markets Equities assisting, according to a term sheet for the
offering obtained by Bloomberg News. Horsholm, Denmark-based
Christian Hansen will set a price range for the shares in mid-
May before setting the final price at the end of the month.  
 Private equity firms are taking advantage of a rebound in
equity markets from their February lows to sell assets after
returning less money to clients in 2009 than any year on record.
Brenntag AG, the chemicals distributor owned by BC Partners
Ltd., raised $1 billion in an IPO last month. PAI may retain a
“large stake,” said Christian Hansen Chief Executive Officer
Lars Frederiksen.  
 “They are very pleased with the progress of the company,”
the CEO said in an interview. After the listing, “we can do the
things we want to do,” he said.  
 PAI paid about 1.1 billion euros for the maker of natural
colors and specialty sweeteners used in drinks and ice creams in
2005. The firm hasn’t decided how many shares it will sell in
the offering, according to the term sheet.  
 Debt will drop to three times earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization, from five times, as a result
of the listing, Frederiksen said. That will enable the company
to make acquisitions using cash flow from operations and issuing
investment-grade debt, he said.  
 Ebitda Climbs  
 Since 2005, Christian Hansen has sold unprofitable units
and concentrated on dairy cultures and enzymes, health products,
and colors, allowing it to become “market leader” in all
three, he said.  
 Christian Hansen said today earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization rose 30 percent to 78
million euros on revenue of 256 million euros in the six months
through February.  
 PAI, which is based in Paris, cut the size of its 5.4
billion-euro leveraged buyout fund by half in December after two
top dealmakers left the firm, prompting some investors to
attempt to remove money from the pool.  
 Formerly the private equity unit of French bank Paribas,
PAI targets companies worth more than 500 million euros. It owns
stakes in United Biscuits, the maker of McVitie’s products, and
the Cortefiel clothing chain in Spain. It also controls French
homebuilder Kaufman & Broad, and FTE Automotive, a German
supplier of car parts.  
 Buyout firms such as PAI typically use loans secured on the
targets they acquire to finance about two-thirds of the purchase
price, and cash from their own funds for the rest. The firms
seek to improve performance at the companies they acquire or
expand them before selling them within about five years.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at   zwu17@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        