-- Palestine Monetary Authority to Offer CDs as Al Wazir Bolsters Bank System
-- Tal Barak Harif
-- 2010-04-26T21:28:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/palestine-monetary-authority-to-offer-cds-as-al-wazir-bolsters-bank-system.html

          
          
             The Palestine Monetary Authority
will issue deposit certificates to banks this year to bolster
the stability of the $9 billion Palestinian territories’
financial system, Governor Jihad al Wazir said.  
 The plan calls for introducing a financial instrument that
institutions could trade and that will be guaranteed by the
central bank, al Wazir said yesterday in an interview at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. The CDs would be
introduced by year-end, he said.  
 “Banks can buy CDs from the PMA and use them as
collateral,” al Wazir, 46, said. “The banks can exchange the
CDs freely with each other and create an inter-banking system.”  
 Al Wazir is reforming the banking system as Palestinian
Authority Prime Minister Salam Fayyad seeks to create
institutions that would enable Palestinians to form an
independent state. The monetary authority set a minimum capital
requirement of $50 million for banks, up from $35 million, and
is pushing eight of the 19 banks operating in the West Bank and
Gaza to consolidate to meet the demand, he said.  
 The organization may create an agency like the U.S. Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. and ultimately plans to establish its
own currency, said al Wazir, who’s the closest thing the
Palestinians have to a central bank governor.  
 “The question is, can it compete? I look at it from a
technical, practical perspective as opposed to an emotional
perspective,” al Wazir said. In a later Bloomberg Radio
interview, he said that bringing back the Palestine pound is
“one of the options. Dollarization is another option.”  
 Stopping Hamas  
 The monetary authority is also trying to stop Hamas from
tampering with Gaza Strip banks. It suspended the operations of
all banks in the strip two weeks ago after Hamas seized funds
from a local Gaza branch whose management had frozen funds to
comply with a global anti-money laundering regulation, he said.  
 “They realized that if they’re going to interfere with the
banking system, all the operations will be suspended, so they
backed off,” al Wazir said of Hamas.  
 HSBC Holdings Plc is the only European bank that has a
branch in the West Bank. Citigroup Inc. is considering opening
an office there, al Wazir said.  
 Michael Hanretta, a spokesman for Citigroup, didn’t
immediately return a message for comment.  
 Credit in Palestinian banks increased by 25 percent last
year and the loan-to-deposit ratio climbed to 38 percent from 28
percent at the end of 2008, al Wazir said.  
 Last year the West Bank and Gaza had economic growth of 6.8
percent, according to estimates from the International Monetary
Fund in a report dated April 13. This consists of an 8.5 percent
growth in the West Bank and 1 percent in Gaza.  
 Economic Growth  
 Palestinian West Bank economic gains have been largely
driven by donor aid and more private investment is necessary to
ensure that the expansion is sustained, the World Bank said.  
 Al Wazir was born in the Gaza Strip four years before
Israel captured the territory in 1967, according to the monetary
authority’s Web site. His father, Khalil al Wazir, was
assassinated in 1988, when he was Palestine Liberation
Organization leader Yasser Arafat’s top deputy.  
 Al Wazir blames Israel for the killing; Israel’s Defense
Ministry declines to comment on the subject.  
 While the father, known as Abu Jihad, ran operations
against Israel from PLO headquarters in Tunis, his son studied
electrical engineering at Marquette University, a Catholic
institution in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Later he earned a doctorate
in business administration at Loughborough University in
Leicestershire, U.K.  
 Fayyad has led the Palestinian Authority’s interim
government since the breakup in 2007 of a partnership between
the secular Fatah party and the Islamic Hamas movement. Hamas
has since ruled the Gaza Strip, while the West Bank is
controlled by Fatah and its chairman, Palestinian Authority
President Mahmoud Abbas.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Palestine Monetary Authority Governor Jihad Al Wazir talks with Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton about economic growth strategy.
     Al Wazir also discusses the importance of international investment and the possible impact economic stability may have on Middle East peace process. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
