-- People's United CEO Sherringham Leaves Connecticut Bank in `Mutual' Accord
-- Nikolaj Gammeltoft
-- 2010-04-26T15:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/people-s-united-ceo-sherringham-leaves-connecticut-bank-in-mutual-accord.html

          
          
             People’s United Financial Inc., the
Connecticut lender looking to acquire failing banks or other
finance companies, said Chief Executive Officer Philip R.
Sherringham resigned by “mutual agreement.”  
 John P. Barnes, 54, senior executive vice president and
chief administrative officer, was named interim president and
CEO, the bank, the Bridgeport-based bank said today in a
statement.  
 “The board believes that new leadership is necessary to
take the company to the next level and realize its full
potential,” Chairman George P. Carter said on a conference call
today. “The board is confident the company will not miss a beat
under Jack’s stewardship.”  
 The change at the top has been discussed at the board level
for a “few weeks,” Carter said on the call. The lender has
hired consulting firm Russell Reynolds Associates to evaluate
internal as well as external candidates and Barnes has said he
is a candidate to take the CEO job permanently.  
 “There was not one catalyst that caused it,” Carter said
about the resignation of Sherringham, 56. “We’re extremely
interested in moving forward to hopefully make the right
acquisition, but it certainly did not drive it completely.”  
 Growing Through Acquisitions  
 People’s United’s strategy of growing through acquisitions
remains the same, while expectations for the timing and
implementation of the strategy have changed, Carter said. The
lender hasn’t explored a sale of the bank as an alternative to
looking for a new CEO, he said.  
 “With the excess capital position that we have, we have to
look to maximize the value by following the existing strategy,
which will be to pursue open bank acquisitions as well as
opportunistic FDIC-assisted transactions,” Barnes said on the
conference call, referring to the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp.  
 Barnes came to People’s United after the acquisition of
Chittenden Corp. in early 2008. Sherringham was chief financial
officer before being named CEO in 2008 when he replaced John
Klein, who died of cancer.  
 In November, People’s United spent some of the $2.5 billion
it had amassed for acquisitions, agreeing to buy Financial
Federal Corp. for $738 million in cash and stock to expand in
equipment financing. It was the lender’s first purchase since
its 2007 acquisition of Chittenden.  
 The lender acquired Butler Bank of Lowell, Massachusetts,
earlier this month in a FDIC-assisted deal after the bank was
closed by the Massachusetts Division of Banks.  
 People’s United is the worst performer this year among the
24 companies in the KBW Bank Stock Index, declining about 3
percent this year to date compared with the average 35 percent
increase in the index. The bank rose 28 cents, or 1.8 percent,
to $16.19 as of 10:53 a.m. today in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        