-- PG&E Details Smart-Meter `Accuracy Issues' to California Senate Committee
-- Mark Chediak
-- 2010-04-26T19:31:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/pg-e-details-smart-meter-accuracy-issues-to-california-senate-committee.html

          
          
             PG&E Corp., owner of California’s
largest utility, told a state Senate committee that eight of its
digital utility meters had “accuracy issues” and were
replaced.  
 PG&E, facing its first hearing in front of the committee as
part of an investigation into the accuracy of the devices, said
the problem is a small one, considering it has installed 5.5
million so-called smart meters.  
 “When we’ve had a problem with meter accuracy itself, we
have replaced those,” Helen Burt, PG&E senior vice president
and chief customer officer, said today during the hearing. “The
smart meter is 99.9 percent accurate.”  
 PG&E is spending $2.2 billion to install 10 million of the
meters, which allow utilities to remotely read energy use.
Hundreds of customer allegations about higher bills and
inaccurate readings tied to the devices arose in Bakersfield,
California, last summer and have since surfaced in Texas.  
 In addition to the eight defective meters, another 50,000
PG&E has installed since 2007 have had problems, including
failure to transmit data wirelessly, trouble storing data or
installation errors, Burt said.  
 “In all cases, we’ve resolved these issues and replaced
meters when needed,” Burt said.  
 ‘Do They Work?’  
 The utility has had to estimate 0.2 percent of customer
bills because a smart meter wasn’t transmitting enough energy-
consumption data, compared with 0.7 percent or 0.8 percent of
customer bills that have had to be estimated due to lack of
access to traditional electromechanical meters, she said.  
 “All the people want to know is, ‘Are these meters
accurate and do they work?’” State Senator Dean Florez, a
Democrat from Shafter, California, said during the hearing.  
 About 900 PG&E customer complaints about the meters have
been filed with the California Public Utilities Commission, Paul
Clanon, executive director with the commission, said today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        