-- Polish Central Bank Independence Is `at Risk,' Rate Setter Glapinski Says
-- Dorota Bartyzel
-- 2010-04-26T13:12:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/polish-central-bank-independence-is-at-risk-rate-setter-glapinski-says.html

          
          
             Poland’s central bank independence
is “at risk” as policy members discuss how much of the bank’s
profit should be transferred to the government to bolster the
state budget, Monetary Council member Adam Glapinski said.  
 “Some members seem to represent the government’s point of
view and their action is aimed only at finding additional
billions of zloty for the budget,” Glapinski said in a
telephone interview out of Warsaw today. “It clearly puts the
central bank’s independence at risk.”  
 The Monetary Policy Council, in which six of the nine
members appointed last quarter by the government want to raise
the amount of money available to boost the state budget,
shouldn’t be allowed to change the size of last year’s reported
profit, Glapinski said today. The bank booked a profit of about
4 billion zloty ($1.4 billion) in 2009, a sum most of the
council’s members want to increase to 8 billion by reducing the
size of reserves allocated to steering the zloty.  
 “I don’t see any reason to change the profit, especially
given that the profit report was sealed by an auditor and
attempts to change it were criticized by European Union,”
Glapinski said.  
 The bank’s management, which isn’t appointed by the
government, has to send a profit report to Prime Minister Donald
Tusk by the end of this month. The report must be approved by
the Monetary Policy Council.  
 The government’s budget “can do without additional
billions of zloty,” while “the central bank’s independence is
crucial for the whole country’s reputation in the eyes of
foreign investors,” Glapinski said.  
 Governor Slawomir Skrzypek, who was killed in a plane crash
on April 10, had asked the European Central Bank to provide an
opinion on how the bank’s profits should be handled. Skrzypek
had said the bank’s management board “doesn’t accept the new
rules because they aren’t valid.”  
 The amended rules, approved by the Monetary Policy Council
on March 31, change the way the central bank creates and
releases provisions for foreign-exchange risk. The main change
requires the central bank’s management board to include
unrealized gains when calculating net income.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        