-- Polish Rate Setters Meet Predecessors Over Row That Threatens Independence
-- Dorota Bartyzel
-- 2010-04-26T14:33:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/polish-rate-setters-meet-predecessors-over-row-that-threatens-independence.html

          
          
             Poland’s central bank will hold an
unprecedented meeting of former and current policy makers in a
bid to resolve a conflict over the regulator’s profit that has
prompted concern at the European Central Bank, according to
three central bankers with knowledge of the meeting.  
 The Monetary Policy Council, which sets interest rates,
estimates the bank earned about 8 billion zloty ($2.7 billion)
last year, most of which must be transferred to the government
to narrow the budget deficit. The management board of Narodowy
Bank Polski says the profit was about half that because of a
rule introduced in 2006 that set aside higher provisions to
ensure the stability of the zloty.  
 The former MPC members will be asked tomorrow to explain
the rule, said the three bankers, who declined to be identified
because the meeting hasn’t been made public. Slawomir Skrzypek,
the bank governor who led the MPC and the management board, was
killed in a plane crash on April 10 along with Polish President
Lech Kaczynski.  
 The dispute has escalated at a time when Poland and fellow
eastern members of the European Union are struggling to narrow
their budget deficits to 3 percent of gross domestic product to
comply with euro-adoption goals. Poland’s shortfall will reach
7.5 percent of GDP this year, the EU forecasts, up from 7.1
percent last year. The higher profit estimated by the MPC is
equivalent to 15 percent of the deficit.  
 The zloty traded at 3.88 per euro at 4:20 p.m. in Warsaw,
up from 3.888 at the April 23 close.  
 First Meeting  
 Tomorrow’s meeting would be the first in the bank’s history
at which current and former council members will discuss policy.  
 The new MPC has amended the 2006 rule on how the bank
creates and releases provisions for foreign-exchange risk. As a
result, the management was requested to include unrealized gains
when calculating income, of which 95 percent must be transferred
to the government’s deficit.  
 As the amendment would retroactively affect the bank’s
accounts from last year and raise its foreign exchange rate risk
provision, the ECB said in an April 23 opinion that “concerns
may arise about whether this process is sound, well-coordinated
and transparent.”  
 The MPC, which is responsible for zloty stability, setting
interest rates and ordering interventions on the currency
markets, is chaired by the central bank governor.  
 The governor also leads the management board, which is
responsible for implementing the council’s decisions.  
 ‘No Reason’  
 Six out of nine MPC members appointed at the beginning of
this year supported the amendment. Three appointed by the
opposition Law & Justice party have resisted the change.  
 “I don’t see any reason to change the profit, especially
given that the profit report was sealed by an auditor and
attempts to change it were criticized by ECB,” said Adam
Glapinski, one of three council members linked to Law & Justice.  
 Recalculating the profit would be a sign of giving up
central bank independence and the budget “can do without
additional billions of zloty,” while “the central bank’s
independence is crucial for the whole country’s reputation in
the eyes of foreign investors,” Glapinski said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net 
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        