-- Portugal Suffering Greek Debt Contagion Puts Pressure on EU's Bond Markets
-- Jim Silver
-- 2010-04-27T15:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/portugal-suffering-greek-debt-contagion-puts-pressure-on-eu-s-bond-markets.html

          
          
             Portugal risks becoming the new
Greece.  
 With a higher debt burden and a slower 10-year growth rate
than Greece, Western Europe’s poorest country is being punished
by investors as the sovereign debt crisis spreads. The risk
premium on Portuguese bonds rose to more than double the past
year’s average this month. Portugal’s credit default swaps show
investors rank its debt as the world’s eighth-riskiest, worse
than for Lebanon and Guatemala.  
 “We do not ignore that Greece’s particular situation has
contagion risks, and we are feeling it,” Finance Minister
Fernando Teixeira dos Santos told reporters in Lisbon on April
22. “The performance of spreads in the market reveals that
contagion risk.”  
 Standard & Poor’s today cut its long-term local and foreign
currency sovereign rating for Portugal to A- from A+ and said
the outlook was negative. Portuguese spreads, the extra yield
that investors demand to hold its debt rather than German
equivalents, rose to 260 basis points, the most since at least
1997.  
 Portuguese Prime Minister Jose Socrates’ push to convince
investors his country will avoid Greece’s fate is being hobbled
by an economy that’s expanded less than an annual average of 1
percent for a decade and is reliant on tourism and industries
such as cork and pulp.  
 More Than Greece  
 While Portugal’s public debt of 77 percent of gross
domestic product is on a par with that of France, the burden
including corporate and household debt exceeds that of Greece
and Italy, at 236 percent of GDP. The savings rate is the
fourth-lowest among 27 members of the Organization of Economic
Cooperation and Development, according to the Paris-based
group’s data.  
 “The reason we’re concerned about Portugal is not because
its public sector debt ratios are excessively high, it’s more
that the Portuguese economy doesn’t really grow,” said Kenneth
Wattret, chief euro region economist at BNP Paribas SA in
London.  
 EU policy makers’ difficulty in containing the Greek crisis
is stoking the threat of contagion, just as the near-collapse of
Bear Stearns Cos. in 2008 undermined other U.S. banks,
exacerbating the credit crisis.  
 The risk for Portugal is that investors who are trying to
protect their portfolios from a Greek-like rout will dump
holdings of small euro countries, such as Portugal. Once that
happens, surging bond yields could put Portugal in the same
spiral that Greece is trying to escape.  
 ‘Conspicuously Vulnerable’  
 Portugal is among countries that are “conspicuously
vulnerable” and may need a bailout, said Kenneth Rogoff, a
professor at Harvard University in Cambridge, Massachusetts, in
a telephone interview.  
 Credit default swaps on Portuguese debt, which insure
against default, rose 24 basis points to 335 today according to
CMA DataVision, near a record. A basis point on a credit-default
swap contract protecting $10 million of debt from default for
five years is equivalent to $1,000 a year. An increase in swaps
signals deterioration in perceptions of credit quality.  
 The International Monetary Fund in Washington said last
week that Greece’s fiscal crisis may spread to other European
countries. Investors are trying to avoid being caught by the
“next Greece,” said Olaf Penninga, who helps manage 140
billion euros ($187 billion) at Robeco Group, an 80-year-old
Rotterdam-based asset manager.  
 ‘Self-Fulfilling Prophecy’  
 Portugal plans to raise as much as 25 billion euros this
year, equivalent to 15 percent of GDP. That compares with 21
billion euros last year, according to the national debt agency.  
 “As spreads get higher the problems are getting bigger:
it’s a self-fulfilling prophecy,” Penninga said in a telephone
interview. “It will get more difficult now for Portugal to tap
markets.” Robeco reduced exposure to Portuguese bonds last year
and sold the last ones in March.  
 Portuguese companies have responded to slow growth at home
by expanding outside their borders. Lisbon-based Cimpor-Cimentos
de Portugal SGPS SA, one of the world’s 10 biggest cement
companies by market value, gets more than three-quarters of its
revenue from outside Portugal, and Jeronimo Martins SGPS SA, the
biggest Portuguese retailer, gets most of its sales from Poland.  
 Portugal’s PSI20 stock index climbed 14 percent in the past
year, less than half as much as Germany’s DAX and the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index.  
 No Share Sales  
 The country’s 236 percent debt burden last year compares
with 205 percent in Italy and 195 percent in Greece. As
Portugal’s private sector took on debt, the country’s savings
rate fell to 10 percent in 2008 from twice that in 1995, while
growing in Germany, according to OECD data.  
 Mota-Engil SGPS SA, Portugal’s biggest construction
company, increased its ratio of debt to operating profit to 7.5
in 2009 from less than half that four years earlier as it
expanded into building and operating highways. Bank loans
increased 24 percent last year, according to the annual report
of the Oporto-based company, which hasn’t raised money by share
sales since 1997.  
 The lack of savings at home lies behind the Portuguese
government’s dependence on foreign investors to fund the
deficit, and the vulnerability of its bonds to shifts in
sentiment.  
 About 15 to 17 percent of outstanding public debt is held
by Portuguese investors, the debt agency estimates. In Spain
about 54 percent of bonds and bills are held domestically, the
Spanish Treasury says. Overseas investors held 6.2 percent of
Japan’s government bonds as of the end of December, according to
the Bank of Japan’s quarterly flow of funds report.  
 Two Haircuts  
 Rising borrowing costs may force Portugal and Greece to
restructure their debt, said Stuart Thomson, who helps oversee
$100 billion at Ignis Asset Management in Glasgow, Scotland, and
doesn’t hold Portuguese debt. He expects a “Greece haircut
first; three months later a Portuguese haircut,” he said in an
interview.  
 “Debt devaluation is the new currency devaluation in the
euro zone,” said Thomson, who used to holiday in Portugal
before the euro-sterling exchange rate made it more expensive
for U.K. tourists.  
 Detailed Plan?  
 Socrates has pledged to cut the deficit from 9.4 percent of
GDP last year to 2.8 percent in 2013, below the EU’s 3 percent
limit and sooner than Ireland’s target of 2014.  
 Ireland, which had the largest deficit in Europe last year,
cut public sector wages and raised taxes to rein in the
shortfall. Irish yields, which were higher than Portuguese
levels throughout last year, are now below those on Portuguese
debt.  
 “The Irish government has very clearly outlined a reform
plan, a very detailed plan,” said Michiel de Bruin, head of
European government bonds at the Dutch unit of F&C Asset
Management Plc in Amsterdam. “The market seems confident that
Ireland can implement all those things,” whereas there’s
uncertainty as to “whether Portugal can reform its budget and
its economy,” he said.  
 Socrates, a Socialist, has been running a government
without a parliamentary majority since being re-elected in
September, making it harder to push through unpopular
legislation in this country of 10.6 million. The opposition
Social Democrats have refused to support the government’s
efforts so far, abstaining during the vote on this year’s budget
bill and a four-year deficit-reduction program.  
 Pension Overhaul  
 Portugal needs to reduce regulation of labor and product
markets and encourage households to save, the IMF said in a Nov.
29 report. Labor costs have risen 3.4 percent a year in the last
decade, compared with 1.7 percent in Germany, and Portugal has
the lowest productivity in the euro region, according to the
EU’s statistics office.  
 Still, Socrates, 52, has shown before that he can take
unpopular measures. In 2006 he overhauled the pension system and
in 2008 faced down some of the biggest demonstrations in decades
to push through a plan to evaluate teachers. The year he was
first elected in 2005 the deficit was 6.1 percent of GDP; he
slashed it to 2.6 percent in 2007.  
 Ricardo Reis, an economics professor at Columbia University
in New York, said that Portugal’s underlying economic indicators
are stronger than Greece’s. Even so, contagion would mean “a
run on Portugal if Greece falls.”  
 The IMF raised the prospect of contagion on April 21,
saying “if unchecked, market concerns about sovereign liquidity
and solvency in Greece could turn into a full-blown sovereign
debt crisis, leading to some contagion.”  
 If the EU fails to resolve the crisis in an “amicable and
speedy way” then there may be “other dominoes to fall,”
former Bank of England policy maker David Blanchflower said in a
Bloomberg Television interview on April 23. Spain and Portugal
may be “in some degree of trouble,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Silver at 
 jsilver@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Jose Socrates, prime minister of Portugal and leader of the Socialist Party, pauses during his victory speech at his campaign headquarters in Lisbon, on Sept. 28, 2009.  Photographer: Mario Proenca/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Richard Stovin-Bradford of the Financial Times' Lex commentary team talks with Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton about Portugal's bond yields and government debt. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 27 (Bloomberg) -- Thomas Herrmann, a global economist at Credit Suisse Group AG, talks with Bloomberg's Maryam Nemazee about the prospect of Greece's debt crisis spreading to other euro-zone nations.
     Herrmann, speaking in Zurich, also discusses the delivery of the emergency aid package requested by Greece. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 23 (Bloomberg) -- Former Bank of England policy maker David Blanchflower, an economics professor at Dartmouth College and Bloomberg columnist, talks with Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton about the European Union's delay in implementing its aid package to Greece and the impact on market sentiment.
      Blanchflower also discusses the results of his study on the correlation between money and happiness and the narrowing gap between genders in the U.S. when it comes to overall life satisfaction. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       A pedestrian in central Lisbon  
                       
                         
                           Mario Proenca/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A pedestrian walks down a street in central Lisbon, on Feb. 9, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A pedestrian walks down a street in central Lisbon, on Feb. 9, 2010. Photographer: Mario Proenca/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Fernando Teixeira Dos Santos, Portugal's finance minister  
                       
                         
                           Jock Fistick/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Fernando Teixeira Dos Santos, Portugal's finance minister, arrives for the meeting of European Union finance ministers at the EU headquarters, in Brussels on Feb. 16, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Fernando Teixeira Dos Santos, Portugal's finance minister, arrives for the meeting of European Union finance ministers at the EU headquarters, in Brussels on Feb. 16, 2010. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
