-- Pound Climbs as Rising House Prices Show Economic Recovery Is Gaining Pace
-- Keith Jenkins
-- 2010-04-26T15:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/pound-climbs-as-rising-house-prices-show-economic-recovery-is-taking-hold.html

          
          
             The pound strengthened against the
dollar for the first time in three days after a report showed
U.K. house prices rose in April for a ninth consecutive month,
adding to evidence the economic recovery is gaining traction.  
 Sterling advanced versus 13 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts as Hometrack Ltd. said the average cost of a home
increased 0.2 percent from March and a YouGov Plc poll put the
Conservative Party, which says it want to cut the budget deficit
faster than the ruling Labour Party, in the lead at 34 percent
ahead of next month’s election. Liberal Democrat leader Nick
Clegg said yesterday it would be “preposterous” for Gordon
Brown to remain as prime minister if Labour comes third in the
popular vote, as some polls have predicted.  
 “The Hometrack data was reasonably robust, which works in
sterling’s favor in the current environment,” said Ian
Stannard, a foreign-exchange strategist at BNP Paribas SA in
London. “Sterling is getting support from the analysis of the
latest opinion polls. The market assumes there is a chance the
Conservatives could scrape through.”  
 The pound gained 0.6 percent to $1.5473 as of 4:23 p.m. in
London. It appreciated 0.9 percent to 86.21 pence per euro,
after earlier reaching 86.04 pence, the strongest since Jan. 28.  
 The U.K. currency may climb to $1.56 in the “near term,”
Stannard said.  
 Today’s gain helped pare declines that have pushed sterling
4.4 percent lower against the dollar since Dec. 31 amid concern
the May 6 election could produce a government without enough
parliamentary support to reduce the biggest budget shortfall
among the Group of Seven nations.  
 Interest Rates  
 The U.K.’s inflation rate rose to 3.4 percent in March,
exceeding the government’s 3 percent limit and the 3.1 percent
predicted in a Bloomberg survey, a report on April 20 showed.
The Bank of England may raise its benchmark interest rate as
soon as August to rein in inflation, said Nick Kounis, chief
European economist at Fortis Bank Nederland NV in Amsterdam.  
 Faster inflation “is starting to rub off on consumer and
market expectations,” Kounis, who is a former U.K. Treasury
official, said in a telephone interview. “This monetary policy
stance that’s super, super easy is inappropriate. They will have
to take some of that accommodation away.”  
 Bank of England  
 The Bank of England has had its key interest rate at a
record low 0.5 percent since March last year and bought 200
billion pounds in government bonds and other securities since
then to aid the economic recovery. Policy makers pledged to
monitor price expectations closely because the inflation outlook
is a source of concern, according to the minutes of their April
8 meeting.  
 Kounis predicted policy makers will increase the rate by a
total of 1 percentage point this year. The weighted average of
16 economist estimates shows the Bank of England’s main rate
will be 0.75 percent by the end of December.  
 The stronger-than-expected inflation data drove yields on
short sterling futures contracts higher, according to Francis
Diamond, a fixed-income strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
London. An increase in the implied yield on the futures contract
for December indicates traders are raising bets for higher
interest rates by the year-end. The implied yield of the short
sterling contract was at 1.17 percent today, from 0.99 percent a
week ago.  
 “The increase in bearish trades at the front of the money
market curve over the last week suggests that market positioning
has changed,” Diamond said.  
 Gilt Auctions  
 Ten-year gilts advanced as Greek bonds tumbled on concern
Germany isn’t moving fast enough to agree to the terms of the 45
billion-euro ($60 billion) aid package.  
 The 10-year gilt yield fell 4 basis points to 4 percent.
The two-year yield was little changed at 1.29 percent.  
 “Gilts are rebounding as euro-peripheral markets came
under pressure,” said John Wraith,  a U.K. fixed-income
strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in London.  
 The Debt Management Office, which handles bond sales for
the U.K. Treasury, plans to sell 1 billion pounds of inflation-
linked securities maturing in 2032 tomorrow. It’s also scheduled
to auction 4.5 billion pounds of 4.5 percent gilts due 2013 a
day later.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        