-- Home Minister Chidambaram Denies Ordering Phone Taps on Indian Politicians
-- Bibhudatta Pradhan
-- 2010-04-26T09:35:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/protests-after-magazine-says-indian-politicians-phone-calls-intercepted.html

          
          
             India’s government denied ordering
secret taps on the mobile telephones of senior politicians as
the opposition paralyzed Parliament in a deepening confrontation
with the ruling alliance.  
 Outlook news magazine in its latest issue said that
sophisticated equipment meant to track terrorist groups had been
used to intercept and record phone conversations of leading
members of the ruling Congress party and other groups. The
claims add to pressure on the government of Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh which tomorrow may face a rare vote over budget
duties on fuel. A major rally against rising prices last week
blocked roads in the capital, New Delhi.  
 “I wish to state that no telephone tapping or
eavesdropping on political leaders was authorized,” by the
government, Home Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said in
Parliament today. Rivals demanded a thorough investigation.  
 “I feel this is something which is extremely serious,”
L.K. Advani, a leader of the main opposition Bharatiya Janata
Party, said referring to the magazine report.  
 The Communist Party of India (Marxist), one of those
Outlook said was a victim of the spying operation, said in a
statement that “such acts subvert the democratic system and
breed an atmosphere of illegality” in government. “They cannot
be tolerated.”  
 Both houses of Parliament were stalled for the day as
opposition members shouted slogans and demanded Singh reply to
the magazine’s report.  
 Cricket Controversy  
 House proceedings were paralyzed this month by a cricket
scandal that forced India’s junior foreign minister, Shashi
Tharoor, to resign. Tharoor denied allegations he had used his
position to influence the award of a team in the lucrative
Indian Premier League to his home state of Kerala.  
 Outlook in its edition dated May 3 reported that Congress
leader Digvijay Singh, Agriculture Minister Sharad Pawar,
Communist party leader Prakash Karat, Bihar Chief Minister
Nitish Kumar had phone calls intercepted over the last three
years. The tapping was carried out by the National Technical
Research Organization, or NTRO, an intelligence agency created
after a 1999 conflict with Pakistan in the Kargil border region
of Kashmir, the magazine said.  
 The last tapped call mentioned by Outlook involved Pawar
and Lalit Modi, the commissioner of the Indian Premier League.
Modi was formally suspended today by the Board of Control for
Cricket in India in the wake of Tharoor’s resignation and tax
probes into the league’s finances.  
 Agenda Blocked  
 “Nothing has been found in the records of the NTRO or
elsewhere to substantiate the allegations” made in the magazine,
Chidambaram said today.  
 Singh’s government is struggling to keep its legislative
agenda on track. A proposal to reserve a third of parliamentary
seats for women angered some allies, and the introduction of a
bill on capping reactor operators’ liability in the event of
nuclear accidents has been delayed by widespread opposition.  
 Opposition groups including the Communists and the
Samajwadi Party plan to use a legislative device tomorrow to
demand the scrapping of fuel duties imposed in this year’s
budget. The move may force the government to show its strength
in a vote.  
 “There is no question mark on the stability or future of
the government,” said Sanjay Kumar, an analyst with the New
Delhi-based Centre for the Study of Developing Societies. “No
doubt the image of the government amongst the people has
dipped.”  
 Karat’s phone was targeted as he led efforts to defeat
Singh’s previous administration in a 2008 vote over a nuclear
energy deal with the United States, which the communists opposed,
Outlook said. The government won the ballot and secured re-
election last May.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        