-- Quebec Minister Mulls New Law to Attract Oil, Gas Investment in Province
-- Frederic Tomesco
-- 2010-04-26T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/quebec-minister-mulls-new-law-to-attract-oil-gas-investment-in-province.html

          
          
             Quebec wants to build its nascent
natural-gas industry by crafting a new law to make it easier for
producers to operate in the province, Natural Resources Minister
Nathalie Normandeau said.  
 Normandeau plans to introduce legislation in the fourth
quarter to regulate oil and gas production, she said in an
interview in Montreal. While Quebec doesn’t yet produce oil or
gas commercially, companies such as Talisman Energy Inc., Forest
Oil Corp. and Questerre Energy Corp. have begun exploring in the
province.  
 Exploration for hydrocarbons is so new in Canada’s second-
most populous province that there is no law specifically
designed to govern oil and gas operations. Drillers are
regulated by a hodgepodge of six laws, including the Mining Act
and Forest Law.  
 “We want to create a fiscal and legal framework that can
make a company decide to invest in Quebec rather than
Pennsylvania,” said Normandeau, who also is the province’s
deputy premier.  
 Edward Kallio, director of gas consulting at Ziff Energy
Group in Calgary, said Quebec may hold about one-tenth as much
gas as the Haynesville Shale in Louisiana and Texas, which the
U.S. Department of Energy estimated last year holds about 251
trillion cubic feet of gas in shale-rock formations.  
 “It’s relatively small, but it’s a nice resource to have
on your doorstep,” said Kallio, who doesn’t expect production
in the province to start before 2015. Quebec would have the
potential to supply as much as 500 million cubic feet of gas a
day from the Utica Shale by 2020, he said.  
 Test Wells  
 Normandeau declined to give details of the regulatory
changes she is considering.  
 “We will not do this at the expense of the environment,”
she said. Provincial legislators would have to vote to approve
the new law.  
 Talisman, which is exploring a formation known as the Utica
Shale in the St. Lawrence River valley, has plans to test four
horizontal pilot wells in Quebec this year. Paul Smith, the
company’s executive vice president for North American operations,
told analysts on a Feb. 10 conference call that the company
would know more about Quebec’s potential by mid-year.  
 North American gas producers are boosting output from shale
formations, where rocks hundreds of feet below the ground are
fractured to free trapped natural gas, which is then pumped to
the surface. Techniques created in the 1990s to tap gas in shale
are allowing producers to extract liquid hydrocarbons from
formations that were previously too dense to exploit profitably.  
 Royalties, Taxes  
 Developing natural-gas production may help create as many
as 10,000 jobs in the province of 7.8 million people over
several years, Normandeau said. Producing gas locally would
increase government revenue from royalties and taxes while
allowing Quebec to reduce its dependence on shipments from
western Canada, said Ziff Energy’s Kallio.  
 Natural gas accounts for 13 percent of Quebec’s energy
consumption, compared with 38 percent for oil, according to the
government.  
 State-owned Hydro-Quebec supplies almost all of the
province’s electricity, with about 95 percent coming from
hydroelectric stations. Gas is used mainly for heating and
industrial purposes.  
 “If we are able to start producing gas, I can see a day
when it will play a bigger role than oil in meeting our energy
needs,” Normandeau said.  
 Environmental Concerns  
 Association québécoise de lutte contre la pollution
atmosphérique, a provincial environmental group, wants Quebec to
halt shale gas exploration, not expand it, until the impact on
the environment can be assessed.  
 André Bélisle, the group’s president, said his
association’s concerns include the possibility of hydrogen
sulfide, a toxic chemical compound contained in natural gas,
being released into the air.  
 “The government is telling us to trust them, but we have
real reasons to be worried by shale gas,” Bélisle said in a
telephone interview.  
 Under Quebec’s mining act, oil and gas resources are owned
by the province. Gas producers would pay royalties of 10 percent
to 12.5 percent, depending on the size of the production.  
 Companies that want to pull water from the ground or drill
on Quebec farmland must get permission from government bodies
such as the provincial Environment Ministry and the Commission
for the Protection of Agricultural Lands.  
 ‘Enormous’ Potential  
 Jean-Yves Lavoie, chief executive officer of Quebec City-
based energy explorer Junex Inc., said he and his industry
counterparts welcome the government’s efforts to tailor a law
for oil and gas production.  
 “Quebec’s natural-gas potential is enormous, and having a
clear regulatory environment can only help,” Lavoie said in a
telephone interview.  
 Junex, citing an assessment by Texas-based consultants
Netherland, Sewell & Associates Inc., said April 19 that it may
be able to produce 3.7 trillion cubic feet of gas from its
Quebec properties. The total resource may be as high as 48.3
trillion cubic feet, the company said.  
 “There is plenty of gas in the ground in Quebec,” Lavoie
said. “The question now is whether we are going to be able to
produce it in a way that makes economic sense. It’s all about
the production costs.”  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        