-- Treasuries Rise as Greek Concern Enhances Refuge Appeal of U.S. Securities
-- Daniel Kruger
-- 2010-04-26T17:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/treasuries-are-little-changed-after-11-billion-auction-of-five-year-tips.html

          
          
             Treasuries were little changed
after the government sold $11 billion of five-year Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, the largest auction of the debt
since 2006.  
 The securities drew a yield of 0.55 percent, compared with
a forecast of 0.523 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of eight
of the Federal Reserve’s 18 primary dealers. The bid-to-cover
ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the
amount of securities offered, was 3.15. The average at the last
five auctions was 2.44.  
 “We just continue to see structural demand coming in to
the asset class as investors recognize both the diversification
and inflation-insurance benefits of the TIPS market,” said
Michael Pond, an interest-rate strategist in New York at primary
dealer Barclays Plc, before the auction.  
 The yield on the five-year inflation-indexed Treasury note
due in April 2014 fell 2 basis points to 0.30 percent at 1:04
p.m. in New York, according to BGCantor Market Data.  
 The last auction, a $7 billion offering in October, drew a
yield of 0.769 percent, which was the second lowest on record.
The bid-to-cover ratio was 3.10.  
 Indirect bidders, a class of investors that includes
foreign central banks, purchased 23.1 percent of the notes. At
the October sale, they bought 47.8 percent, higher than the
average for the past five sales of 31.4 percent.  
 Greece Reaction  
 Treasuries gained earlier on concern Germany may refuse to
guarantee an early release of bailout funds to Greece, stoking
demand for the safety of U.S. government debt. German Finance
Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble was cited by the Bild-am-Sonntag
newspaper as saying national aid for Greece can still be
rejected.  
 Greek bonds tumbled on concern the European Union-led
bailout for Greece will face hurdles as donor countries begin
trying to ratify the nation’s aid package. The yield premium
investors demand to hold the nation’s 10-year bonds rather than
German bunds climbed to more than 600 basis points.  
 German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Greece today that must
satisfy the pre-conditions for emergency loans before Germany
approves the aid under terms of a European Union-International
Monetary Fund package.  
 Greek Finance Minister George Papaconstantinou said in
Washington over the weekend that investors will “lose their
shirts” if they bet the nation will default.  
 Greece’s fiscal crisis dominated weekend meetings in
Washington of finance ministers and central bankers from around
the world after the nation said on April 23 it wanted as much as
45 billion euros ($60 billion) of financial support that was
made available by its European neighbors and the International
Monetary Fund. Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the IMF’s managing
director, said talks will end “in time to meet Greece’s
needs.”  
 Sovereign Debt  
 “As developments continue to come out of Europe in regards
to Greece, the peripheral European economies continue to play a
role in price action,” said Ian Lyngen, a government bond
strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in Stamford, Connecticut.
“The TIPS auction will garner significant attention with the
lack of economic information of events for the market to key in
on.”  
 Sovereign bonds yield an average 2.385 percent, about the
same as a year ago and below the average of 3.08 percent in
2008, when the credit-market seizure led investors to seek the
safety of government debt, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. The cost to borrow is steady even though the
amount of bonds in the index that includes nations from the U.S.
to the Germany and Japan has grown to $17.4 trillion from $13.4
trillion two years ago.  
 Global Inflation  
 While the debt helped the global economy recover from its
first recession since World War II, yields show bond investors
aren’t troubled that the growth will spur inflation. Consumer
prices excluding food and energy costs rose 1.5 percent in
February from a year earlier in the 30 countries that form the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the
smallest gain on record.  
 “The fact that inflation is very well behaved, that
provides the cover for central banks to remain on the sidelines
and continue to pursue accommodative policies to help the
economy,” said Thomas Girard, a senior money manager who helps
oversee $115 billion in fixed-income assets with New York Life
Investment Management in New York.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        