-- Senate Republicans Block Finance Overhaul Debate
-- Alison Vekshin
-- 2010-04-26T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/republicans-block-debate-on-financial-overhaul-legislation-in-57-41-vote.html

          
          
             U.S. Senate Republicans blocked
Democrats from advancing their plan to overhaul Wall Street
regulation, saying they want to force changes before beginning
full debate.  
 No Republican broke ranks today to join Democrats in the
57-41 vote, with 60 needed to begin consideration of the bill.
The two sides remain apart on several provisions, including
consumer protections and derivatives.  
 “All of us want to deliver a reform bill that will tighten
the screws on Wall Street,” Senate Minority Leader Mitch
McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, said before the vote. “But
we’re not going to be rushed into another massive bill based on
the assurances of our friends on the other side.”  
 President Barack Obama said in a statement he was “deeply
disappointed” that Republicans blocked debate on the measure.  
 The proposal would redesign rules governing the financial
services industry in response to the worst economic crisis since
the Great Depression. The measure is aimed at averting a repeat
of the $700 billion in taxpayer-funded aid to firms including
Citigroup Inc. and American International Group Inc.  
 The next step is “we continue to put that bill together,”
Senator Richard Shelby of Alabama, the Banking Committee’s
ranking Republican who has been negotiating with committee
Chairman Christopher Dodd, told reporters after the vote.  
 Concessions Sought  
 Democrats, who control the Senate 59-41, will use the
outcome of the vote to accuse Republicans of obstructing new
Wall Street rules. Republicans want to use their unified
opposition as leverage to win concessions from Democrats in
negotiations on a compromise.  
 Democrat Ben Nelson of Nebraska joined Republicans in
voting not to begin debate. He said in a statement he wouldn’t
support a plan he hadn’t seen, though he may back a future
bipartisan compromise.  
 Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said in a
statement that Republicans voted “to protect the big banks and
their bonuses and to keep this important debate hidden from
public scrutiny. He switched his vote from “yes” to “no” to
allow himself to seek another vote on the matter later. Under
Senate rules, any lawmaker on the prevailing side can move to
reconsider a vote.  
 ‘Sound Ideas’  
 “Hardly do we claim perfection in what we’ve written,”
said Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat who wrote the bill. “But we
believe in sound ideas that deal with these very issues that
caused the problems in the first place, and what we need to do
is be able to debate those ideas.”  
 Dodd and Shelby met today. Shelby told reporters after the
meeting, “I’m hoping that we can get a bill. I’d like to get a
bill this week or next week.”  
 Republican Senator Olympia Snowe of Maine said after
today’s vote that she believes “there’s strong support on both
sides of the aisle to get it done.”  
 The Obama administration “strongly supports” the
Democrats’ plan and believes it will “protect American families
and the long-term health of the nation’s economy,” said a White
House statement. Republicans are “playing a game” in their
effort to block consideration of the bill, White House press
secretary Robert Gibbs said at a briefing.  
 Republicans say the Democratic measure would set up a
permanent bailout of Wall Street banks and create new
bureaucracies. Democrats say the legislation would save the
government from having to step in with taxpayer money to prop up
ailing financial firms whose collapse would disrupt the economy.  
 Voter Anger  
 Republicans and Democrats are trying to tap into voter anger
at Wall Street and the bank bailout that was approved as
Americans grappled with record home foreclosures and rising
unemployment.  
 Senate Democrats forced the vote to portray Republicans as
“defenders of the banks and large financial institutions and
portray themselves as defenders of the little guy,” Stu
Rothenberg, editor of the nonpartisan Rothenberg Political
Report, said today in a telephone interview. “One way of
putting pressure on Republicans is to try to force a vote to
make them defend themselves, make them vote ‘no,’” he said.  
 Tomorrow, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief Executive Officer
Lloyd Blankfein and six current and former Goldman Sachs
employees are scheduled to testify before the Senate’s Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations. The Securities and Exchange
Commission on April 16 sued Goldman Sachs, alleging the bank
defrauded investors when selling a debt instrument tied to
mortgages. Goldman Sachs denied wrongdoing.  
 House Version  
 The House approved its financial regulation plan in
December, and the two chambers’ bills would have to be
reconciled before a final measure could go to Obama. The
measures are based on his proposal to create a consumer
protection agency, strengthen oversight of hedge funds and
derivatives and set up a council of regulators to monitor the
financial system for systemic risk.  
 Senate Democrats reached agreement on derivatives language,
including a provision that would require commercial banks to
wall off their swaps trading desks.  
 The agreement, to be included in the broader bill, also
would require mandatory clearing and exchange trading for
standardized derivative products, and impose a fiduciary duty on
banks that trade derivatives with municipalities.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in Washington at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Senator Ben Nelson, a Democrat from Nebraska, speaks to reporters at the Capitol after a meeting with Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, unseen, in Washington, on Feb. 6, 2009. Photographer: Mannie Garcia/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
