-- Finance Showdown in Senate as Reid Seeks Debate
-- Alison Vekshin
-- 2010-04-26T19:23:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/republicans-will-block-financial-bill-in-vote-shelby-says.html

          
          
             Senator Richard Shelby, a lead
negotiator on a financial-rules bill, said Republicans will
block Democrats’ efforts to begin debate on the measure in a
test vote today, saying the move would give them more leverage.  
 “I believe that 41 Republicans are right now going to
stand together,” Shelby, the top Republican on the Senate
Banking Committee, said in a speech at an Independent Community
Bankers of America conference in Washington.  
 If Democrats fail to get enough votes, Republicans plan to
offer their own alternative financial regulation plan, a Shelby
aide told reporters today. Later, the aide said it hadn’t been
decided whether a bill would be offered.  
 Democrats, who control the Senate with a 59-41 majority,
need 60 votes to open debate in the procedural ballot set for 5
p.m. in Washington. Shelby said he will continue talks with
Banking Committee Chairman Christopher Dodd, the Connecticut
Democrat who wrote the bill, to come up with a bipartisan
compromise.  
 Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid challenged Republicans
to allow the Senate to begin debating the measure.  
 The vote “will reveal who believes we need to strengthen
oversight of Wall Street and who does not” and “who believes
we need to strengthen protections for consumers and who does
not,” Reid, of Nevada, said in a floor speech.  
 The vote will force each Republican senator “to publicly
proclaim that party unity is more important than economic
security,” Reid said.  
 ‘Tighten the Screws’  
 Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky said
Republicans “want to deliver a reform bill that will tighten
the screws on Wall Street. But we will not be rushed based on
the assurances of Democrats” that the legislation will prevent
future bailouts of failed firms.  
 The legislation “still contains a number of loopholes”
that would allow bailouts, McConnell said. “Americans are not
in a trusting mood,” so “the burden is on the Democrats to
prove it when they say their legislation will or will not do
something,” he said.  
 Republicans have focused criticism of the Dodd bill on a
provision that would give the government power to liquidate
failing financial firms whose collapse would disrupt the
economy. Republicans say the provision doesn’t go far enough to
eliminate the potential for future bailouts similar to the $700
billion package Congress approved in 2008 to aid companies
including Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp.  
 The Dodd bill “doesn’t really deal sufficiently with too-
big-to-fail,” said Shelby of Alabama. “We’re getting closer
and closer -- we’re not there yet.”  
 Outstanding issues remain in sections of the bill that
deal with derivatives oversight, consumer protections and
unwinding failing firms, Shelby told reporters after his
speech.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in Washington at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Senator Richard Shelby  
                       
                         
                           Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Senator Richard Shelby, talks with reporters during a conference in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Senator Richard Shelby, talks with reporters during a conference in Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Thomas Hazen, a professor at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, talks with Bloomberg's Betty Liu about the potential impact of derivatives regulation on Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
     Hazen also discusses the outlook for Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief Executive Office Lloyd Blankfein testimony to a Senate subcommittee tomorrow and the Securities and Exchange Commission's lawsuit against the company. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
