-- Syncreon Plans 144A-For-Life Deal as Paperwork Shunned: New Issue Alert
-- Tian Huang
-- 2010-04-27T08:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/reynolds-plans-1-billion-of-notes-as-junk-index-nears-par-new-bond-alert.html

          
          
             Syncreon Holdings Plc, the Auburn
Hills, Michigan-based logistics company, is marketing $300
million of eight-year notes as junk-bond issuers choose to pay
higher yields to restrict their debt to sophisticated investors
and avoid documentation.  
 Proceeds from the senior unsecured debt planned as a so-
called 144A-for-life issue will be used to repay existing
borrowings and for general corporate purposes, according to a
person familiar with the transaction.  
 Of the high-yield, high-risk debt announced since the
beginning of March, 22 percent has been 144A-for-life issuance,
compared with 13.7 percent in the company’s high-yield index as
of Feb. 26, according to an April 23 report written by Barclays
Capital analysts led by Bradley Rogoff in New York.  
 “It’s a more straightforward way of coming to market
without having complete disclosure,” said Lon Erickson, a
managing director at Santa Fe, New Mexico-based Thornburg
Investment Management. “There has been a lot of issuance owed
by private-equity funds and foreign issuers. 144A exists to
allow those kinds of companies to come without the extreme
burden of expense and time.”  
 Rule 144A is a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
regulation issued in 1990 that modified a two-year holding
period requirement on privately placed securities by permitting
large institutions to trade them among themselves.  
 With a standard Rule 144A sale, borrowers can rush an issue
to market and complete the registration documentation
afterwards, according to Erickson. Under 144A for life, they
never have to register the bonds, he said.  
 Higher Yield  
 High-yield, high-risk 144A-for-life debt has roughly the
same duration and issue size as registered bonds, but it
typically yields 1.2 percentage points more, the Barclays report
said.  
 “In theory, these issuances are going to be smaller on
average and a little less liquid, with not as many
participants,” said Erickson, who helps manage $4 billion at
Thornburg. “There may not be as much information about the
issuer to dig in there because they are not held to the same
reporting requirements. These two reasons would help create a
premium.”  
 The extra interest investors demand to own all high-yield,
high-risk corporate bonds instead of Treasuries fell 2 basis
points to 542 basis points yesterday, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. High-Yield Master II Index.  
 A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. Junk bonds are
rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by
Standard and Poor’s.  
 Yanlord Land  
 Yanlord Land Group Ltd., the Singapore-based developer of
high-end residential real estate in China, sold $300 million of
seven-year notes in high-yield issuance, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The debt was rated BB by S&P and was
given a preliminary Ba2 grading by Moody’s, Bloomberg data show.
It yields 9.5 percent, a 624 basis-point spread to U.S.
Treasuries.  
 The Syncreon notes may be sold as soon as today, according
to a person familiar with the transaction. The debt, non-
callable for four years, may yield about 9.5 percent and will be
sold by the company’s Syncreon Global Finance and Syncreon
Global (Ireland) units, said the person, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are
underwriting the offering, the person said. The company’s debt
is rated B3 by Moody’s and B by S&P.  
 BB&T Corp., the North Carolina lender that remained
profitable through the financial crisis, sold $500 million of
six-year notes, and U.S. Bank, a unit of U.S. Bancorp, issued
$500 million of 10-year debt to lead investment-grade sales
yesterday, Bloomberg data show.  
 The spread on investment-grade U.S. corporate debt rose 1
basis point to 152 basis points, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S Corporate Master Index.  
 Following is a description of at least $9.5 billion of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  
 Investment Grade  
 JAPAN FINANCE CORP.’s sale of bonds in dollars due July
2012 may be priced to yield 17 basis points to 19 basis points
more than the benchmark mid-swap rate, according to bankers
involved in the transaction.  
 NBC UNIVERSAL INC., the media company in which Comcast
Corp. plans to acquire a majority stake from General Electric
Co., may sell 5-, 10- and 30-year notes in a benchmark offering,
according to a person familiar with the transaction. Proceeds
will be used to repay existing debt and to finance a portion of
a cash distribution to GE, said the person, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set. Benchmark offerings are
typically at least $500 million.  
 CHILE plans to sell $1 billion of dollar-denominated 10-
year bonds, along with its debut sale of peso securities,
Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said. The country will
“certainly” issue the debt this year, Larrain said.  
 BELGIUM plans to add $500 million to its 2.75 percent 2015
bonds, according to a banker involved in the transaction.
Deutsche Bank AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are managing the
sale, the banker said.  
 DOHA BANK QSC, Qatar’s third-largest bank, plans to sell
senior notes in dollars, the lender said in a statement on the
Qatari bourse, without disclosing the size of the offering.  
 FORETHOUGHT FINANCIAL GROUP INC. plans to sell $150 million
of 10-year bonds, according to a person familiar with the
transaction, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set. Standard & Poor’s assigned the notes a grade of BBB-in a
March 24 report.  
 TRANSNET LTD., the South African state-owned transportation
company, plans to sell U.S. dollar-denominated debt in a
benchmark offering, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. Transnet said in February that it planned to sell
$2 billion of international debt to help fund infrastructure.
Barclays Capital and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are joint
bookrunners for the offering, said the person, who declined to
be identified because terms aren’t set.  
 Not Rated  
 The PROVINCE OF CORDOBA, Argentina, plans to sell as much
as $350 million of bonds in international markets once the
federal government completes a restructuring of defaulted debt,
Banco de Cordoba said.  
 SENSIENT TECHNOLOGIES CORP. said it entered into an
agreement with a group of four financial institutions for the
issuance of $110 million in fixed-rate, senior notes, according
to a Nov. 19 statement distributed by Business Wire. The company
will issue seven-year debt in May with a fixed coupon rate of
4.91 percent and proceeds will be used to repay existing
indebtedness, Sensient said in a March 1 regulatory filing.  
 Split Rated  
 KAZMUNAYGAZ NATIONAL CO., the energy producer in
Kazakhstan, plans a benchmark offering of 5- and 10-year notes
through its finance subsidiary, according to a person familiar
with the transaction, who declined to be identified because
terms aren’t set. Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG, and
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc are managing the offering, the
person said. The debt may be rated Baa2 by Moody’s Investors
Service and BB+ by Standard & Poor’s, the person said.  
 High Yield  
 HILLMAN COS. plans to sell $150 million of senior unsecured
notes in connection with Oak Hill Capital Partners’ acquisition
of the company, according to a company statement. Oak Hill is
acquiring the company from Code Hennessy & Simmons LLC, Ontario
Teachers’ Pension Plan and members of company management,
Hillman said.  
 LANTHEUS MEDICAL IMAGING INC. plans to sell $225 million of
7-year senior notes, according to a person familiar with the
offering. Proceeds will be used to refinance the company’s
credit facilities and to repurchase a portion of its outstanding
preferred stock, said the person, who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set.  
 LENNAR CORP., the third-biggest U.S. homebuilder, plans to
sell $250 million of 8-year senior notes, according to a company
statement. About $200 million of the proceeds will be used to
make tender offers for outstanding debt, with the rest for
general corporate purposes, the Miami-based company said in a
statement distributed by PR Newswire. Lennar also is offering
$250 million of convertible senior notes due in 2020, all of
which will be used to for general purposes, the company said.  
 MARFRIG ALIMENTOS SA, the world’s fourth-largest
meatpacker, plans to sell 10-year dollar bonds as soon as this
week, a person familiar with the transaction said. The Sao
Paulo-based company hired Credit Suisse Group AG, Banco
Santander SA, Itau Unibanco Holding SA, Banco Bradesco SA and
Banco do Brasil SA to arrange the sale, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the terms aren’t set. The size
of the offering wasn’t disclosed.  
 PATRIOT COAL CORP., the St. Louis-based coal producer,
plans to sell $250 million of senior notes due in 2018, the
company said in a statement. Proceeds will be used for working
capital and general corporate purposes, the company said.
Citigroup Inc., Bank of America Corp. and Barclays Plc are
managing the sale, the company said.  
 LEVI STRAUSS & CO. plans to sell $460 million of 10-year
notes, the company said in a statement. Proceeds of the sale of
senior unsecured notes will be used to repay debt, Levi Strauss
said. The notes may be sold as soon as April 29, according to a
person familiar with the transaction who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  
 REYNOLDS GROUP HOLDINGS LTD., the maker of Reynolds Wrap
plastic wrap, said it plans to acquire the Evergreen Packaging
group of companies and a New Zealand paper mill from Carter Holt
Harvey Ltd. Reynolds Group plans to borrow $1.75 billion to pay
for the acquisition of Evergreen and the Whakatane Mill, it said
in a statement distributed by Business Wire. The Auckland, New
Zealand-based company plans to sell $1 billion of bonds and will
seek $750 million of bank loans, said a person familiar with the
offering who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.
Moody’s rates the debt B2 and S&P ranks it B+.  
 AMERICAN RENAL HOLDINGS INC. may sell $225 million of
eight-year notes that may yield 8.5 percent to 8.75 percent,
according to a person familiar with the transaction, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  
 COOPER-STANDARD AUTOMOTIVE INC. may sell $450 million of
eight-year notes, according to a person familiar with the
offering. Deutsche Bank AG, Bank of America Corp., Barclays Plc,
and UBS AG are managing the sale, said the person, who declined
to be identified because terms aren’t set.  
 DSW HOLDINGS INC., a unit of DS Waters Enterprises LP,
plans to sell $475 million of seven-year senior secured notes,
according to a person familiar with the transaction. Proceeds
will be used to help repay outstanding debt, said the person,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. Morgan
Stanley, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Barclays Plc are managing the
sale, the person said.  
 AMERICOLD REALTY TRUST, the operator of temperature-
controlled warehouses owned by billionaire Ron Burkle’s Yucaipa
Cos., plans to sell $300 million of 10-year notes, according to
a person familiar with the transaction. Proceeds from the sale
of senior secured debt will be used to purchase assets from
Versacold International Corp., said the person, who declined to
be identified because terms aren’t set. Yucaipa owns 49 percent
of Versacold with an option to purchase the rest, according to
an April 15 filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Moody’s ranks the debt Ba3.  
 RENAISSANCE CAPITAL, the commercial banking arm of
Renaissance Group, is selling $225 million of three-year bonds
with a 13 percent coupon, according to a banker with knowledge
of the transaction. Moody’s assigned Renaissance an issuer
rating of B2 and S&P affirmed its B ranking on the company.  
 PENSON WORLDWIDE INC. plans to sell $200 million of senior
secured second-lien debt, the company said in a statement
distributed by Business Wire. The notes due in due in 2017 may
be sold as soon as April 28, according to a person familiar with
the transaction. The provider of services to securities brokers
will use proceeds to repay about $100 million of existing debt
and to bolster capital of regulated subsidiaries, the company
said.  
 BANCO FIBRA SA plans to sell $150 million of three-year,
dollar-denominated notes, according to a person familiar with
the offering. The Sao Paulo-based bank hired Banco Espirito
Santo SA, BNP Paribas and HSBC Holdings Plc to arrange the sale
of senior unsecured notes, said the person, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  
 SYNCREON GLOBAL, a subsidiary of Auburn Hills, Michigan-
based Syncreon Holdings Plc, plans to sell $300 million of
eight-year senior notes, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. The debt may yield about 9.5 percent, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  
 (Updated April 27. See {www.syncreon.com})  
 BANCO INDUSTRIAL E COMERCIAL SA, the Sao Paulo-based lender
known as BicBanco, may pay a yield of about 8.75 percent on its
offering of 10-year dollar bonds, according to a person familiar
with the offering. HSBC Holdings Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Standard Chartered Plc are underwriting the sale of unsecured
subordinated notes, said the person, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  
 EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF UKRAINE plans to sell $500 million of
five-year bonds that may be priced to yield about 8.5 percent,
according to people with knowledge of the sale. Citigroup Inc.
and Credit Suisse Group AG are managing the sale of the notes,
which will be issued through Biz Finance Plc.  
 ESSAR STEEL HOLDINGS LTD. plans to raise at least $750
million through a sale of bonds denominated in U.S. dollars,
according to a person familiar with the matter. Essar said in an
e-mailed statement that it plans to issue senior unsecured notes
due 2017. The company said it intends to use proceeds to
refinance existing debt and for potential acquisitions.  
 LEARNING CARE GROUP NO. 2 INC. is planning to sell $265
million of payment-in-kind notes that can pay interest in the
form of added debt, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. The company plans to issue five-year senior secured
notes, of which 10.5 percent can be paid in cash and 2.5 percent
in additional debt, said the person, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  
 COMMUNITY EDUCATION CENTERS INC. plans to sell $210 million
of six-year, senior secured notes that may yield 12.75 percent
to 13 percent, according to a person familiar with the offering.
The notes, which can’t be called for the first 3.5 years, will
be sold in a private placement, said the person familiar with
the transaction. The company initially planned to sell the debt
in a so-called 144A offering, will borrow the money through a
private offering. Proceeds from the sale may be used to repay
debt, the person said. Jefferies & Co. is underwriting the sale,
the person said.  
 PT CILIANDRA PERKASA, an Indonesian palm-oil company, may
sell dollar bonds, a person familiar with the matter said.
Ciliandra is a unit of Singapore-based First Resources Ltd.  
 AO ASTANA FINANCE will offer senior creditors $350 million
of new bonds, as well as recovery notes and 58.9 percent of
voting shares, the lender said in a statement published through
the Kazakhstan Stock Exchange. Holders of Astana Finance’s
domestic notes will be offered 20-year tenge-denominated bonds
with an 8 percent coupon, the lender said in the statement,
which was dated Oct. 16.  
 The DOMINICAN REPUBLIC may sell as much as $600 million of
bonds, said Roberto Cabanas, head of general financing at the
Public Credit Office. The country, which hired Barclays Plc and
Citigroup Inc. to arrange the offering, will begin meeting with
bond investors April 23, said the person, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  
 Offerings in Pipeline  
 BANK FOR INVESTMENT & DEVELOPMENT OF VIETNAM received
approval from the central bank to issue 7 trillion dong ($369
million) of notes and another 3 trillion dong ($158 million)
worth of dollar-denominated notes in 2010, according to a
statement on State Bank of Vietnam’s Web site.  
 PAN AMERICAN ENERGY LLC, the Argentine unit of London-based
BP Plc, hired Credit Agricole CIB, HSBC Holdings Plc and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. for its planned sale of 2021 dollar bonds.  
 METINVEST HOLDING LLC, Ukraine’s largest steelmaker, plans
to sell dollar-denominated bonds in its first offering of
international debt, according to a person with knowledge of the
transaction. The Donetsk-based company controlled by Ukrainian
billionaire Rinat Akhmetov appointed BNP Paribas SA, Credit
Suisse Group AG, ING Groep NV, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
and VTB Capital to organize meetings with potential investors,
the banker said.  
 BOLIVIA plans its first international bond sale in more
than 70 years as early as the end of 2011, Finance Minister Luis
Arce said. He didn’t disclose the size of the offering.  
 BRASKEM SA, Latin America’s biggest petrochemical producer,
plans to sell 10-year dollar-denominated bonds, according to a
person familiar with the transaction. Banco do Brasil SA, Banco
Bradesco SA, HSBC Holdings Plc and Banco Santander SA are
arranging the offering, said the person, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  
 GLORIOUS PROPERTY HOLDINGS LTD. postponed its first sale of
dollar-denominated bonds, citing unfavorable market conditions.
The postponement was disclosed in an e-mailed statement by
Callis Lau, an external spokeswoman for the Hong Kong-based
bank. Glorious Property had planned to sell five-year bonds
denominated in U.S. dollars, according to a person familiar with
the matter who declined to be identified before a public
announcement. Glorious said in a filing that it had hired
Deutsche Bank AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Standard Chartered
Bank to manage the offering.  
 FIRSTRAND LTD., South Africa’s second-largest banking
group, said it postponed a planned sale of dollar bonds because
a case filed against Goldman Sachs Group Inc. by the Securities
& Exchange Commission in the U.S. and a volcanic ash cloud that
disrupted global air travel made market conditions too volatile.
The sale may now take place later this year, Andries du Toit,
group treasurer at FirstRand in Johannesburg, said in an
interview.  
 AXIATA GROUP BHD., Southeast Asia’s second-largest mobile-
phone operator, plans to raise $300 million to strengthen its
capital through the first dollar bond sale by a Malaysian
company in 2010. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley
will help the Kuala Lumpur-based company issue 10-year, fixed-
rate notes, Axiata said in a stock exchange filing.  
 KOREA FINANCE CORP. plans to sell $100 million to $200
million of foreign-currency bonds next month in its first
overseas debt sale since October, Edaily reported, without
citing anyone. The state-run agency also plans to sell $1
billion of global bonds in the U.S. in the second half of the
year, the Korean-language online newspaper said.  
 NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVE FEDERATION of South
Korea, also known as Nonghyup, plans to raise as much as $500
million from foreign-currency bonds to repay debt, according to
a person with direct knowledge of the matter. The federation,
which provides credit and banking services to farmers, plans to
sell notes to help refinance about $600 million of bonds and
loans, said the person, who asked not to be named as the plan is
private. The bonds will probably be denominated in dollars, they
said.  
 YANLORD LAND GROUP LTD., a Singapore-based developer of
residential projects in China, plans to sell as much as $300
million of seven-year bonds, according to a banker involved in
the transaction. The notes, callable after four years, may be
priced to yield 9.5 percent. HSBC Holdings Plc and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc are managing the sale, with Standard
Chartered Plc as a so-called passive manager.  
 PTT PRODUCTION & EXPLORATION PCL, the Thai oil explorer,
hired Credit Suisse Group AG and Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc to help it sell global bonds, according to two people
familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified as the
plan is private.  
 UNION BANK OF INDIA LTD. plans to sell bonds denominated in
U.S. dollars, according to a person familiar with the matter.
Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and Standard
Chartered Plc will manage the sale, the person said.  
 MALAYSIA will “most probably” sell global Islamic bonds
denominated in dollars, Prime Minister Najib Razak said.  
 POWER SECTOR ASSETS AND LIABILITIES MANAGEMENT CORP. of the
Philippines sell between $750 million and $1.5 billion of
dollar-denominated bonds “anytime” to help refinance maturing
debt thru next year, Vice Chairman Jose Ibazeta said. The
company manages the finances of state utility National Power
Corp.  
 BRISBANE AIRPORT CORP., owner of Australia’s third-busiest
airport, may sell bonds in the U.S. later this year as it
pursues new markets to help refinance debt and pay for a new
runway. The company is considering a 10- or 15-year U.S. private
placement and a five- to seven-year Australian dollar bond sale
in late 2010 or early 2011, Chief Financial Officer Tim Rothwell
said in a phone interview from Brisbane.  
 VIETNAM NATIONAL COAL-MINERAL INDUSTRIES GROUP, the state-
owned coal producer known as Vinacomin, plans to sell as much as
$500 million of bonds overseas this year to fund mining and
energy projects, according to Deputy Chief Executive Officer
Nguyen Van Hai.  
 The PHILIPPINES may sell another $500 million of bonds
aimed at overseas Filipinos in the second half of 2010,
according to one of the arrangers for the transaction.  
 UNO RESTAURANT HOLDINGS CORP., the operator and franchisor
of 170 pizzerias, filed a Chapter 11 reorganization plan that
calls for a $27 million offering of notes. The Boston-based
company’s rights offering of second-lien notes would enable it
to repay an outstanding loan and exit Chapter 11, it said in
court papers filed in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.
Secured debt holders Twin Haven Capital Partners LLC and
Coliseum Capital Management LLC have agreed to backstop the
notes offering.  
 FINLAND may sell five-year bonds denominated in dollars
this year, the Finnish Treasury said in a document posted on its
Web site.  
 POLAND may sell around $1 billion of five-year dollar bonds
in May “at the earliest” and yen-denominated debt by the end
of the year, Deputy Finance Minister Dominik Radziwill said. The
country is rated A2 at Moody’s and A- at S&P and Fitch Ratings.  
 SONGA OFFSHORE SE postponed its plans to issue $200 million
of debt, but may return to the market in March with a larger
offer, according to a person familiar with the transaction. In
January, Songa hired Citigroup Inc. to issue seven-year bonds to
repay existing debt and for general corporate purposes, it said
in a statement.  
 HUDSON PRODUCTS HOLDINGS INC. postponed its $250 million
sale of six-year notes due to market conditions, according to a
person familiar with the transaction. Hudson began marketing the
six-year senior secured second-lien notes on Jan. 26, according
to a person familiar with the offering. It has not specified
when it plans to return to the debt market to sell high-yield
notes.  
 MONGOLIA plans to sell as much as $1.2 billion of bonds
overseas this year to fund infrastructure to support its mining
industry, Finance Minister Sangajav Bayartsogt said. This is
Mongolia’s first benchmark offering of dollar-denominated debt.
Investment banks are advising Mongolia to issue debt with
maturities of between five and 10 years, Bayartsogt said in an
interview. The securities may offer a yield of between 8 percent
and 11 percent, he said.  
 KOREA HYDRO & NUCLEAR POWER CO., a unit of state-run Korea
Electric Power Corp., delayed a planned foreign-currency bond
sale until after the first quarter, according to two people with
direct knowledge of the matter.  
 BIRCH COMMUNICATIONS INC. is offering $100 million of
senior secured notes due in 2015, with proceeds going toward
refinancing debt, buying outstanding warrants for its common
stock and general corporate purposes, including acquisitions,
the Atlanta-based company said Nov. 30 in a statement. On Feb.
1, Moody’s withdrew its B3 rating assigned to the company’s
notes, citing “recent indications” that Birch “will complete
its note issuance under terms that are different than those that
supported the rating assignment,” analysts Gerald Grnovsky and
Russell Solomon wrote in a note. Birch is rated B- by S&P, the
ratings company wrote Dec. 4 in a statement. “We’re currently
holding discussions with interested parties and expect to
finalize our offering in the near term,” Greg Corwin, director
of marketing for Birch, said in a Jan. 11 telephone interview.
Corwin said the status of the deal was “unchanged” in a Feb.
17 interview.  
 (Updated Feb. 17.)  
 VIETNAM SHIPBUILDING INDUSTRY GROUP, the state-owned
company known as Vinashin, won government approval to sell as
much as $600 million of bonds overseas to fund construction of
ships. Vinashin plans to raise between $400 million and $600
million in a dollar-denominated bond sale “with a government
guarantee,” Chief Business Officer Nguyen Quoc Anh said in a
phone interview from the northern port province of Quang Ninh.  
 ANGOLA may begin the sale of international bonds by the end
of June, Reuters reported, citing people it didn’t identify. The
African country “is on course to get” its first credit rating
from an international agency as it prepares to sell bonds
abroad, Aguinaldo Jaime, director of state-run National
Investment Agency, said Feb. 12. Angola previously sought to
sell $4 billion of debt in an offering first announced in
August. The deal was later postponed.  
 ALROSA, Russia’s diamond monopoly, may sell as much as $1
billion in foreign-currency bonds in the second half of 2010,
RIA Novosti reported, citing Chief Executive Officer Fyodor
Andreyev. The company is rated Ba3 by Moody’s.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Tian Huang in New York at 
 thuang57@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        