-- Rupee Strengthens for a Third Day as Rains May Spur Indian Economic Growth
-- V. Ramakrishnan
-- 2010-04-26T05:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/rupee-strengthens-for-a-third-day-as-rains-may-spur-indian-economic-growth.html

          
          
             The rupee appreciated for a third
day on speculation foreign capital inflows may increase after
the weather office predicted a normal monsoon, which could boost
farm output that accounts for a fifth of the economy.  
 Calls to China from the U.S. and emerging economies such as
India and Brazil to let the yuan strengthen are also helping the
rupee’s gains, said Sudarshan Bhatt, chief foreign-exchange
dealer at state-owned Corporation Bank in Mumbai. Rains in the
June-September season will be 98 percent of the 50-year average,
the India Meteorological Department said on April 23.  
 “Almost all factors are favorable for the rupee now
because the economy is on a strong growth path, and a normal
monsoon will strengthen the prospects further,” said Bhatt.
“The continuing foreign inflows into the stock market are just
one indicator.”  
 The rupee was at 44.3325 per dollar as of 10:40 a.m. in
Mumbai, compared with 44.4350 on April 23, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency is the second best-performer
in Asia so far this year. It has risen 4.9 percent against the
dollar, compared with a gain of 7.8 percent in Malaysia’s
ringgit.  
 Bhatt predicted the rupee may climb to 43.80 per dollar by
June. Farm output drives demand for goods from motorcycles to
televisions, spurring the overall economy.  
 Net purchases of Indian equities by overseas investors so
far this year have been 276.4 billion rupees, a third of the
record 834.2 billion rupees that they bought in 2009, according
to the nation’s market regulator.  
 Capital Flows  
 India may attract large capital flows from overseas, posing
a “challenge” for currency and monetary management, Reserve
Bank of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said in a speech in
Washington on April 24. “Accommodative monetary policies in the
advanced economies, coupled with better growth prospects in
India, could trigger large capital flows into the country,” he
said.  
 Offshore contracts indicate bets the rupee will trade at
44.39 to the dollar in a month, compared with 44.50 at the end
of last week. Forwards are agreements in which assets are bought
and sold at current prices for future delivery. Non-deliverable
contracts are settled in dollars rather than the local currency.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        