-- Russian Technologies May Start Series of Share Sales With Helicopter Unit
-- Ekaterina Shatalova
-- 2010-04-26T14:17:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/russian-technologies-may-start-series-of-share-sales-with-helicopter-unit.html

          
          
             Russian Technologies Corp., a state
industrial holding company, is preparing several units for share
sales as early as in 18 months as the government seeks funds to
upgrade manufacturing and diversify the economy.  
 OAO Helicopters of Russia, maker of the Mi-34 series patrol
chopper, is among the units closest to offering its shares to
investors, Chief Executive Officer Sergei Chemezov said today in
an interview in Moscow.  
 Russian Technologies, set up in 2007 to help modernize the
nation’s machine-building industry, holds the state’s shares in
more than 400 companies, from metals making to arms production
and export. The holding company hired Renaissance Capital, an
investment bank half-owned by billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov, to
help manage share sales in its units, Chemezov said.  
 “Chemezov is reflecting the new reality that the Kremlin
wants to see,” said Chris Weafer, chief strategist with UralSib
Financial Corp. “The government is serious about opening up the
economy to investors, including foreign investors.”  
 Helicopters of Russia was founded in 2006 from 13 companies
that design, produce and service civilian and military aircraft,
and has at least two listed units, OAO Kazan Helicopters and OAO
Ulan Ude Aviation plant.  
 Kazan shares declined 1.4 percent to 54.25 rubles at 6:12
p.m. in Moscow after gaining 43 percent on the Micex Stock
Exchange since the start of the year. Ulan Ude rose 0.5 percent
to 42.19 rubles, extending this year’s gain to 29 percent. The
benchmark Micex index has climbed 8.2 percent this year.  
 Russian Technologies’ OAO VSMPO-Avisma unit, the world’s
biggest titanium maker, may also sell shares “once the market
recovers,” Chemezov said, without giving more details.  
 The holding company is considering boosting its stake in
OAO KamAZ, Russia’s biggest truck maker, from 38 percent with an
eye on later reselling the stock at a profit, he said.  
 “While the market is low, it is possible to buy now in
order to sell high,” Chemezov said. Under a partnership accord
with Daimler AG, Russian Technologies may not acquire a
controlling stake in KamAZ, he said.  
 KamAZ rose as much as 4.8 percent today before paring gains
to trade little changed at 73 rubles, having risen 14 percent
this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        