-- Alwaleed Plans Rotana Share Sale Within Two Years to Fund Expansion Plans
-- Glen Carey
-- 2010-04-26T14:40:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/saudi-prince-alwaleed-plans-rotana-share-sale-within-two-years-to-expand.html

          
          
             Saudi Prince Alwaleed bin Talal
plans to sell a stake in media company Rotana Holding to the
public within two years as the billionaire prince expands his
entertainment, music and news business in the Middle East.  
 “An IPO will be happening in the coming two years,”
Alwaleed, Saudi Arabia’s richest businessman, said in an
interview with Bloomberg TV in Riyadh. He added that “we need
to brand the company very well before going into an IPO.”  
 Rotana, which produces Arabic and English television
programs and publishes an entertainment magazine, is expanding
to meet rising demand for entertainment and news in Saudi
Arabia, the Arab world’s biggest economy, and the Middle East.
Rotana in February agreed to sell a 9.1 percent stake to Rupert
Murdoch’s News Corp. for $70 million as the company seeks
television, movie, production and technology expertise.  
 “There is still a lot of appetite for good companies
coming to the market” in Saudi Arabia, said Murad Ansari, a
Riyadh-based equities analyst at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE.
“Rotana is pretty well known in region, and it is by far a
leading company when it comes to entertainment.”  
 Kingdom Holding Co., Alwaleed’s investment company, rose
3.2 percent to 9.6 riyals in Riyadh trading today, valuing the
company at 35.6 billion ($9.5 billion).  
 Alwaleed said in February that he planned to hire an
adviser for the initial public offering within two months. The
prince, who owns 95 percent of Riyadh-based Kingdom Holding
Co., didn’t provide the size and location of the share sale.  
 MBC Group  
 Rotana shows movies and Arabic-language music videos with
Lebanese and Egyptian stars on its satellite channels in the
Middle East, according to its Web site. The company has radio
stations and competes with MBC Group, which is owned by Walid
al-Ibrahim, the brother-in-law of former Saudi King Fahd.  
 Alwaleed last went to the Saudi market in July 2007, when
he sold 315 million shares of Kingdom Holding at 10.25 riyals
each. In January, Alwaleed transferred 180 million of his
shares in Citigroup Inc. to Kingdom Holding to improve
profitability and borrowing opportunities.  
 Alwaleed has a 7 percent stake in News Corp., which owns
Twentieth Century Fox, the maker of the top-grossing U.S. movie
“Avatar.” He held talks in January with Rupert Murdoch,
chairman and chief executive officer of News Corp., on “future
potential” alliances and investments, according to a statement
by Kingdom Holding.  
 News Channel  
 Alwaleed also said today he may start a regional news
channel to compete with the Al-Arabiya and Al-Jazeera satellite
channels. The channel “is something I will be doing
personally” because it “needs a lot of investments up
front,” he said. The channel wouldn’t be produced through
Kingdom Holding Co. or Rotana, Alwaleed said.  
 The news channel would borrow from the business model used
at Murdoch’s Fox and Sky News channels while broadcasting
different content in the Middle East, Alwaleed said. Saudi
Arabia is a Sunni Muslim-majority nation with strict media laws
and no diplomatic relations with Israel.  
 Rotana and Fox International Channels in December signed a
100 million-riyal licensing content agreement with Walt Disney
Co. Disney content will be aired in the Middle East on Fox
Movies and Fox Series channels under the terms of the four-year
accord, the companies said at the time.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Saudi Prince Alwaleed bin Talal plans to sell a stake in media company Rotana Holding to the public within two years as he expands his entertainment, music and news business in the Middle East. Bloomberg's Erik Schatzker reports from Riyadh. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
