-- Barclays' Shah Sees `Record Issuance' of Junk Bonds This Year: Tom Keene
-- Tom Keene
-- 2010-04-26T16:29:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/shah-anticipates-record-issuance-of-high-yield-bondsthis-year-tom-keene.html

          
          
             Sales of high-yield bonds will
reach a record this year as offerings of higher-quality
corporate debt decline, according to Ashish Shah, a credit
strategist at Barclays Plc in New York.  
 Many companies finished financing last year and will have
less need to sell higher-rated debt, Shah said in a Bloomberg
Radio interview with Tom Keene.  
 “For high-grade companies, high-quality companies, you’re
going to see companies actually issuing a lot less this year
because they did most of what they had to do last year,” Shah
said. “For high-yield companies though, they still have
maturities to roll, so you’re going to see record issuance this
year.”  
 Investment-grade U.S. corporate debt issuance totaled $1.1
trillion in 2009, compared with sales of high-yield, or junk,
debt of $163 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Sales of corporate bonds fell 28 percent last week
globally, according to Bloomberg data. JPMorgan Chase & Co.
strategists say investors should be “underweight” investment-
grade corporate while staying “overweight” high-yield bonds.  
 Corporations will be supported by the funds governments
have pumped into the economy to stimulate growth, saving their
own money and cleaning up their balance sheets, Shah said.
Corporate bonds will have higher prices and lower yields than
sovereign bonds amid speculation government debt is becoming
more risky, according to Shah.  
 “That’s definitely credit improvement,” he said. “It’s a
reflection of the fact that companies are going to be
conservative here. They’re not going to go too much out of their
core bailiwick, and they’re going to manage their companies for
financial prudence.”  
 The extra yield investors demand to own company debt
instead of Treasuries has held near 143 basis points, or 1.43
percentage points, for the past week, about the narrowest spread
since November 2007 and down from 176 basis points at the end of
2009, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        