-- Shell Assures on Victoria Fuel Supplies as Cleaners Union Threatens Strike
-- Ben Sharples
-- 2010-04-27T07:29:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/shell-sees-seamless-transition-as-geelong-plant-cleaning-contract-ends.html

          
          
             Royal Dutch Shell Plc said it
expects no impact on production at its Geelong refinery in
Australia, which supplies half of Victoria state’s fuel needs,
amid the threat of a strike action by specialist cleaners.  
 Filling stations may run dry by the weekend if 20 cleaners
take industrial action over a decision to terminate their
employment by new contractor ISS Cleaning, Jess Walsh, state
secretary for cleaners’ union LHMU, said in a statement today.
The union has given Shell until 2 p.m. local time tomorrow to
guarantee the 20 cleaners’ jobs and pay.  
 Geelong, one of two refineries operated by Shell in
Australia, has the capacity to process up to 120,000 barrels of
oil a day, according to the Hague-based company’s Web site. The
refiner expects a “seamless transition” between cleaners’
contracts at the end of the month, Melbourne-based spokesman
Paul Zennaro said by phone today.  
 The cleaners decontaminate safety clothing at the refinery,
including protective acid suits and masks used by maintenance
staff to fix leaks and spills, the union said.  
 “The government has spoken to Shell today and has been
assured that the threat of industrial action at the Geelong
refinery is unlikely to have any impact on the supply of fuel in
Victoria,” Fiona Macrae, a spokeswoman from premier John
Brumby’s office said in an e-mailed statement.  
 ISS is working with the union and Fair Work Australia, the
national workplace relations tribunal, to ensure there is no
disruption to services at the Geelong refinery, Darryl
Prince, director of human resources and strategy at ISS
Australia, said by phone today.  
 The refinery is one of seven in Australia, with others
operated by BP Plc, Caltex Australia Ltd. and Exxon Mobil Corp.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        