-- Singapore Says Tighter Monetary Policy Appropriate as Recovery Strengthens
-- Shiyin Chen
-- 2010-04-26T07:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/singapore-says-tighter-monetary-policy-appropriate-as-recovery-strengthens.html

          
          
             Singapore’s tighter monetary policy
is “appropriate” as the island’s economic recovery is becoming
more entrenched, Trade Minister Lim Hng Kiang said today.  
 “We expect some inflationary pressures to emerge as the
economy recovers,” Lim, who is also deputy chairman of the
Monetary Authority of Singapore, said in response to questions
in parliament today. “Wage pressures will build as the labor
market tightens, while asset values could rise in tandem with
the improvement in economic fundamentals,” and rising commodity
prices could push up producer and consumer prices, he said.  
 Singapore’s central bank said April 14 it would undertake a
one-time revaluation and seek a gradual and modest appreciation
of the currency, joining other Asian nations in tightening
monetary policy as the region leads a global rebound. Industrial
production grew 43 percent in March, a report showed today,
beating the 30.3 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  
 The economy expanded an annualized 32.1 percent in the
first quarter from the previous three months, the most since at
least 1975.  
 This month’s “policy decision is appropriate considering
the Singapore economy has recovered strongly from the global
financial crisis and is expected to continue on a firm path,”
Lim said. “The effects of the overall shift in policy stance
works with a lag and economic activity is already beyond pre-
crisis levels. Thus it is timely to unwind the policy that was
put in place during the downturn.”  
 ‘Urgent Action’  
 Asian central banks from India to Malaysia have raised
interest rates this year to fight inflation and avert asset-
price bubbles. The Monetary Authority of Singapore uses the
currency instead of interest rates to conduct monetary policy.  
 Emerging markets need to take “urgent action” on the
surge of liquidity and capital flowing into their economies
because they could spur inflation and trigger another crisis,
Standard Chartered Plc said in a report published today. Greater
currency flexibility, tighter monetary policy and some capital
controls are among measures that can be taken to help manage the
inflows, it said.  
 Singapore’s home prices rose 5.6 percent in the three
months ended March 31, following a gain of 7.4 percent and 16
percent in the previous two quarters, the Urban Redevelopment
Authority said April 23.  
 While the exchange rate is Singapore’s “key lever,”
policy makers can also use administrative measures with regards
to asset prices, Lim said. “We’re watching the situation very
carefully,” he said.  
 Property Measures  
 The government said last month it will release a larger
supply and wider variety of land for developers in the second
half of this year as it sought to cool the property market. The
island has barred interest-only mortgages for uncompleted homes
and stopped allowing developers to absorb interest payments for
apartments under construction to deter speculative purchases. It
also levied a seller’s stamp duty on residential properties and
land sold within one year after purchase.  
 In the longer term, the steady appreciation of the
Singapore dollar is in line with the country’s economic
fundamentals, Lim said. A stronger currency will help reduce the
cost of imported goods and prevent wages and rentals from rising
too rapidly, he said.  
 Singapore’s economic recovery is becoming broad-based and
more entrenched, reflecting the global rebound, he said. Still,
several downside risks remain, including the sovereign debt
crisis in Europe and weak end-consumer demand as fiscal stimulus
measures are withdrawn globally, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        