-- Singapore Industrial Output Beats Analysts' Forecasts, Boosting Recovery
-- Stephanie Phang
-- 2010-04-26T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/singapore-industrial-output-beats-analysts-forecasts-boosting-recovery.html

          
          
             Singapore’s industrial production
grew at a faster pace than analysts forecast, bolstering an
economic recovery that has prompted the central bank to allow
the currency to strengthen.  
 Output at factories, which accounts for about a quarter of
Singapore’s economy, surged 43 percent in March from a year
earlier after a revised 17.9 percent gain the previous month,
the Economic Development Board said in a statement today. The
median forecast of seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
was for a 30.3 percent gain.  
 Singapore’s central bank said April 14 it would undertake a
one-time revaluation and seek a gradual and modest appreciation
of the currency, joining other Asian nations in tightening
monetary policy as the region leads a global rebound. The
economy expanded an annualized 32.1 percent in the first quarter
from the previous three months, the most since at least 1975.  
 Singapore’s non-oil domestic exports climbed 26.6 percent
from a year earlier in March as electronics shipments by
companies including Venture Corp. accelerated.  
 The island’s $182 billion gross domestic product will
increase 7 percent to 9 percent in 2010, the trade ministry said
this month, more than its earlier forecast for growth of as much
as 6.5 percent.  
 Singapore’s industrial production fell a seasonally
adjusted 1.5 percent in March from February, when it increased a
revised 5.2 percent from a month earlier.  
 Electronics production jumped 73.8 percent from a year
earlier, following a revised 55.5 percent gain in February.
Pharmaceutical output advanced 69.9 percent. Excluding
biomedical manufacturing, overall production expanded 36.2
percent in March.  
 Production of pharmaceuticals is volatile because some
drugs take longer to make and contain higher-value ingredients
than others, leading to spikes and dips in output. Companies
such as GlaxoSmithKline Plc also shut plants for cleaning before
making different products.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        