-- SJVN Initial Public Offering Said to Raise as Much as 10.7 Billion Rupees
-- Ruth David
-- 2010-04-26T13:27:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/sjvn-initial-public-offering-said-to-raise-as-much-as-10-7-billion-rupees.html

          
          
             SJVN Ltd., a state-owned Indian
power utility, plans to offer shares in its initial public
offering for 23 rupees to 26 rupees each, according to two
people involved in the sale.  
 Retail investors and employees will get a 5 percent
discount on equity in the hydro-electric power generation
company, according to one of the people, who declined to be
identified before a public announcement. The government will
raise as much as 10.7 billion rupees ($240 million) from the
sale, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 SJVN is trying to tap capital markets after companies
raised 58 billion rupees in IPOs this year in India, and joins
five other companies selling shares this week. Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh’s administration plans to raise another $8.9
billion selling shares in state-owned companies in the fiscal
year through March 2011.  
 SJVN Chairman and Managing Director H.K. Sharma wasn’t
immediately available to comment today.  
 The company, based in Shimla, Himachal Pradesh, will seek
bids for 415 million shares from April 29 to May 3, according to
an April 16 share sale document. About 247 million shares will
be offered to institutional investors, 41.2 million shares to
high-net worth individuals, 3.35 million shares to employees,
and 123.5 million shares to retail investors, it said.  
 Underwriters for Sale  
 The utility hired JM Financial Consultants Pvt., IDFC
Capital Ltd., IDBI Capital Market Services Ltd. and SBI Capital
Markets Ltd. to manage the share sale, according to its
prospectus. The power company’s profit for the quarter ended Dec.
31 rose 27 percent to 1.57 billion rupees from a year earlier,
according to its Web site.  
 The federal government, which is selling state assets to
shrink its budget deficit, will hold a 64.5 percent stake in the
company following the IPO, and the Himachal Pradesh state
government will own 25.5 percent, according to the prospectus.
The company won’t get any proceeds from the IPO, it said.  
 The utility will vie with companies offering shares in
first-time sales in India this week including Jaypee Infratech
Ltd., according to Bloomberg data.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        