-- Soccer Schedules, Claiborne, Gucci, PACCAR, Lexmark: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-04-26T11:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/soccer-schedules-claiborne-gucci-paccar-lexmark-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             U.K. soccer leagues claimed victory
against Yahoo! Inc.’s U.K. unit in a court ruling that said
their match schedules can be protected by copyright law.  
 Justice Christopher Floyd at the High Court in London ruled
April 23 that the schedules of the English and Scottish leagues
are subject to “database copyright” law.  
 Media companies and betting firms must now pay to use the
information, said DLA Piper LLP, the law firm representing the
leagues and Football DataCo Ltd., the group that markets and
licenses the data. They had brought the case against Internet
company Yahoo! U.K. and a number of betting firms.  
 The court’s ruling “confirmed that there are indeed
enforceable IP rights in these lists,” Simon Levine, the lawyer
for the leagues and DataCo, said in an e-mailed statement. “It
also clarifies any existing confusion as to whether the use and
publication of the fixture lists have a commercial value.”  
 The lists encompass the schedules of teams from Manchester
United, rated the most valuable club in the world by Forbes
magazine, and Scotland’s Glasgow Rangers to lower-tier teams. As
well as claiming copyright for the lists as a database, the
claimants sought a ruling that the information was covered by
general copyright, according to the judgment.  
 “It seems to me that the only way the fixtures lists could
conceivably attract copyright is by virtue of the collection and
arrangement of the data contained in them, that is to say as a
database,” Floyd said in his ruling.  
 Olswang LLP, the law firm for the defendants, didn’t
immediately respond to a message seeking comment.  
 “It is reassuring to note that U.K. law has recognized the
intellectual efforts of the professional football
administrators, police, supporters associations and others who
expend a great deal of time and effort in compiling and checking
the fixtures,” David Folker, DataCo’s general manager, said in
an e-mailed statement.  
 The case is TLC 705/09 Football Data Co. Ltd. v. Stan James
(Abingdon) Ltd. & ors.  
 Patents  
 Microsoft Wins Nuance Voice-Recognition Patent Suit  
 Microsoft Corp.’s Tellme Networks unit defeated a patent-
infringement lawsuit brought by Nuance Communications Inc. over
speech-recognition software used in telephone systems.  
 Nuance’s patent for a way to eliminate problems associated
with background noise and poor audio quality is invalid because
it didn’t cover a new invention, U.S. District Judge Sue L.
Robinson in Wilmington, Delaware, said in an April 20 decision.
The case had been scheduled for a May 3 trial. Instead, the
judge closed the case in Microsoft’s favor.  
 The dispute was over Tellme software sold to AT&T Inc. and
Verizon Communications Inc. for their directory assistance
services. Nuance’s 1991 patent 5,033,088 covered a method in
which recorded speech would be transmitted to a person if the
computer couldn’t understand what was said.  
 “It is axiomatic that a human operator will demonstrate
superior speech recognition abilities to that of the existing
computerized recognition systems” Robinson said in her ruling.  
 Microsoft is pleased with the decision, said Kevin Kutz, a
spokesman. Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft, the world’s
biggest software maker, bought Tellme in 2007.  
 Nuance, based in Burlington, Massachusetts, provides
speech-recognition software for call centers and reported $950.4
million in revenue for the fiscal year ended Sept. 30. Richard
Mack, a spokesman for the company, didn’t immediately return
messages seeking comment.  
 The case is Nuance Communications Inc. v. Tellme Networks
Inc., 06cv105, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  
 Trademark  
 Liz Claiborne Hit With $300,000 Trademark Infringement Verdict  
 Liz Claiborne Inc., the maker of Lucky Brand jeans and Kate
Spade handbags, will have to pay a Miami-based clothing
manufacturer $300,000 in a trademark-infringement case, a jury
in federal court in New York decided April 22.  
 New York-based Claiborne’s Lucky Brand unit sued Marcel
Fashion Group for trademark infringement in July 2005, claiming
Marcel’s “Get Lucky” sportswear line infringed its marks.  
 In Marcel’s court filings, the company argued it had used
“Get Lucky” as early as 1985, and registered the mark with the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in 1986.  
 The jury found that Claiborne and Lucky Brand sold garments
that infringed the “Get Lucky” mark, and awarded the Florida
company damages, its law firm said in a statement April 22.  
 Lucky Brand was represented by Ann Schofield Baker and
Katherine Baggett Thornburgh of Dallas-based McKool Smith.  
 The case is Lucky Brand Dungarees Inc. v. Ally Apparel
Resources LLC, 1:05-cv-06757-LTs-MHD, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Magistrate Hands Gucci Privilege Request Off to Judge  
 In the ongoing trademark fight between Guess? Inc. and
Gucci Group, a magistrate judge said he didn’t have the
authority to order Gucci to produce a list of privileged
documents between Gucci and its Italian trademark counsel.  
 Magistrate Judge James L. Cott said in an April 21 court
filing he’d have to refer this issue to the federal judge
assigned to the case, U.S. District Judge Shira A. Scheindlin.  
 The year-old case, in which Guess is accused of using a
network of wholesale buyers to sell knockoffs of Gucci designs,
hit a roadblock earlier in April when the Italian firm
acknowledged to the court that it fired its in-house director of
legal affairs after finding he didn’t have a current law
license.  
 Guess is arguing that because the fired lawyer didn’t have
an up-to-date license, he wasn’t a lawyer and communications
with him weren’t privileged.  
 In an April 8 ruling, Judge Cott denied Gucci’s request to
keep sealed its filings relative to the lawyer’s filing. He said
the request came too late, and the press had already published
numerous stories about the firing. Quoting an appeals court
opinion, Cott said the court didn’t have the power “to make
what has thus become public private again.”  
 He said that while he understood Gucci’s desire not to air
publicly a sensitive personnel matter, the court “cannot
accommodate a desire to shield that information without
‘undermining the tradition of an open judicial system.’”  
 Gucci is represented by Louis Sherman Ederer and Matthew
Thomas Salzmann of Washington’s Arnold & Porter LLP. Guess? is
represented by Andrew Jay Frackman, Daniel M. Petrocelli and
Robert Craig Welsh of Los Angeles-based O’Melveny & Myers LLP.  
 The case is Gucci America Inc. v. Guess? Inc. 1:09-cv-
043763-SAS-JLC, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  
 Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  
 PACCAR Must Produce Truck Wiring Diagram, Kansas Judge Rules  
 PACCAR Inc., the maker of Peterbilt and Kenworth trucks,
must produce the wiring schematics for one of its 2005 model
Peterbilt trucks, a federal judge ruled.  
 An Oregon resident sued PACCAR in federal court in Wichita,
Kansas, in November 2008 after the Peterbilt truck he bought in
2005 suddenly burst into flames as it was being driven, and was
destroyed.  
 The truck owner asked the court to order Bellevue,
Washington-based PACCAR to produce the wiring diagrams for the
truck, and the manufacturer refused, claiming this was both a
trade secret and commercial information.  
 Magistrate Judge Donald W. Bostwick disagreed, saying
PACCAR failed to demonstrate any unfair competitive advantage it
would give to others to have the wiring diagram for a five-year-
old truck disclosed. The manufacturer also failed to address
whether the information the truck owner sought could be
purchased through the Internet or could be reverse-engineered by
a knowledgeable person, he found.  
 The truck owner is represented by Eldon L. Boisseau of the
Law Offices of Eldon L. Boisseau of Wichita. PACCAR is
represented by Amy M. Decker, Kenneth R. Lang, and Matthew K.
Holcomb of Hinkle Elkouri Law firm LLC of Wichita.  
 The case is K R. Smith Trucking LLC v. PACCAR Inc., 6:08-
cv-01351-WEB-DWB, U.S. District Court, District of Kansas
(Wichita).  
 Law Firm Avoids $1 Mln Sanction in Lexmark Trade Secrets Case  
 Meisenheimer Herron & Steele persuaded a federal appeals
court to lift a $1 million sanction against the firm for its
part in a trade-secrets case.  
 In an April 21 ruling, the 6th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals found that the San Diego firm didn’t act in bad faith in
its representation of BDT AG and its BDT Products unit against
Lexmark International Inc.  
 BDT Sued Lexmark in federal court in Lexington, Kentucky,
in 1999, alleging the printer maker had misappropriated its
secret for a printer tray. The court found, in an August 2008
ruling, that the suit was without merit, that no secret had been
taken. The court then issued an order for BDT and its law firms
to pay sanctions of more than $5 million.  
 Meisenheimer asked that its sanction be lifted, claiming it
didn’t act in bad faith in representing its client, and that
courts can’t sanction firms, only individuals, for bad-faith
litigation.  
 The court agreed, noting that Lexmark “has simply been
unable to point to” any evidence that the firm acted in bad
faith. The court also agreed with Meisenheimer that the law
provided only for the sanctioning of individuals, not law firms.  
 BDT’s case was argued by William L. Montague of Dinsmore &
Shohl LLP of Cincinnati. The law firm’s argument was made by
Elizabeth S. Hughes of Lexington’s Gess Mattingly & Atchinson
PSC, also of Lexington.  
 The case is BDT Products Inc., v. Lexmark International
Inc., 86-6140, 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Cincinnati).  
 The lower court case is BDT Products Inc. v. Lexmark
International, 5:99-cv-00061-JMH-JBT, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Kentucky (Lexington).  
 Judge Backs Down on ‘Trade Secret’ Ruing in Bear Country Case  
 Lawyers representing media outlets had questioned a South
Dakota state court judge’s decision to close files and all court
proceedings to the public in a case involving operation of an
animal-park tourist attraction, the Rapid City Journal reported.  
 Judge John Delaney of the 7th Circuit Court rescinded an
earlier order closing the proceeding on the request of a lawyer
representing Bear Country U.S.A., who had argued that
proprietary information would be discussed in the suit over the
value of shares of Bear Country stock, according to the
newspaper.  
 The judge agreed April 21 to let the media and public into
the courtroom unless financial information was being discussed,
according to the Rapid City Journal.  
 He said he would “draw the line” at financial data, and
“I’m going to protect it until the Supreme Court says
otherwise,” the newspaper reported.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        