-- Some U.K. Bank Trading Desks Could Face Year's Suspension, Regulator Says
-- Caroline Binham
-- 2010-04-26T15:04:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/some-u-k-bank-businesses-could-face-year-suspension-penalties-fsa-says.html

          
          
             U.K. banks’ trading desks that
violate Financial Services Authority rules could be suspended
for up to a year under proposals from the regulator.  
 The U.K. regulator will be able to suspend individuals for
as long as two years, and parts of a financial company’s
business for one year, under tentative penalty guidelines
published today. The review relates to how to enact powers given
to the agency by the government through the Financial Services
Act, which came into force this month.  
 “Suspension can be clearly and visibly linked to the
misconduct, as it can be targeted at a particular activity, and
can have an immediate effect on how a business operates or on an
individual’s ability to work,” according to the FSA proposals.
“If the breach of our rules has been carried out by a
particular trading desk, we could prevent that desk from
trading.”  
 The FSA’s review of the Financial Services Act comes 10
days before an election that could determine the agency’s
future. The vote could put into power opposition Conservatives
who have pledged, if elected, to carve up the FSA and return
lender supervision to the Bank of England.  
 The Labour party government has argued that the Financial
Services Act would reduce “underlap” in supervision between
the central bank, FSA and Treasury. The third political party,
the Liberal Democrats, also don’t want to disband the FSA.
Recent polls point to a House of Commons where no bloc has a
majority.  
 Record Fines  
 The regulator has in turn promised to be a tougher, more
intrusive agency in the wake of the worst financial crisis since
World War II. It has introduced a new code that would increase
fines, in some cases tripling them. The FSA had a record year
for fines, collecting 33.1 million pounds ($51.2 million) in the
fiscal year ended March 31.  
 The ability to suspend a bank from selling certain products
or undertaking particular activities for as long as a year will
be a “greater deterrent than the imposition of a financial
penalty” alone, today’s document said.  
 “These are very significant new powers, depending on how
they will be used,” said Peter Snowdon, a former FSA lawyer who
is now a regulatory attorney at Norton Rose LLP. “It could be a
major part of someone’s business that could be stopped for a
year, and for an individual it will be very damaging.”  
 Short-Selling Rules  
 The FSA wants to be able to fine those who breach short-
selling rules. While the agency temporarily banned short selling
of financial shares at the height of the financial crisis in
2008, it extended disclosure requirements until more general
short-selling rules are set for the European Union.  
 Requirements to disclose the shorting of shares of
companies undertaking rights offerings would be relaxed to only
include companies that primarily trade their shares on a U.K.
stock exchange, the FSA proposed today.  
 Short selling is when investors borrow shares and then sell
them in the hope their price will drop. If it does, they buy the
shares back at the lower price, return them to their owners and
pocket the difference. Lawmakers on both sides of the Atlantic
blamed the practice for exacerbating the share-price declines of
banks during the credit crunch.  
 The FSA would have the power to request information from
hedge funds, sovereign wealth funds, oil traders based overseas
who deal in U.K. investments, and other entities it doesn’t
directly supervise under the proposals published today. The
information could range from trading strategies to what
contingency plans a firm has in place should they suffer
computer problems, the paper said.  
 Group of 20  
 Lawmakers from the Group of 20 Nations have agreed to
tighten supervision to try to bring previously unregulated
firms, like hedge funds, within the purview of regulators
because they believe some could bring down the whole financial
system should they fail. The FSA already regulates hedge-fund
managers based in the U.K.  
 Today’s consultation is open until June. The FSA will
publish a separate consultation on tightening up bonuses before
the end of June, it said today. Banks already have to comply
with a code that came into force in January, which pushes
rewards paid in shares rather than cash, and discourages multi-
year bonuses. Banks could be forced by the FSA to hold more
capital if they don’t comply.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Binham in London at 
 cbinham@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        