-- South Korea's Economy Probably Accelerated in First Quarter on Shipments
-- Cesilia Han
-- 2010-04-26T04:15:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/south-korea-s-economy-probably-accelerated-in-first-quarter-on-shipments.html

          
          
             South Korea’s economic growth
probably accelerated in the first quarter as rising global
demand boosted sales at the nation’s carmakers and electronics
manufacturers.  
 Gross domestic product rose 1.5 percent in the three
months through March from the previous quarter, when it
advanced 0.2 percent, according to the median of 12 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey. The release is due at 8 a.m.
tomorrow in Seoul.  
 South Korea’s currency today advanced to a 19-month high,
and the benchmark stock index reached its highest level since
June 2008, propelled by the export-led economic expansion. The
central bank forecast this month that the economy will expand
at the fastest pace since 2006 and Moody’s Investors Service
raised the nation’s credit ratings one level to A1 on April 14.  
 “Growth is mainly driven by exports, with Toyota’s woes
giving a boost for Hyundai Motor and electronics enjoying a
pick-up in global demand,” said Park Sang Hyun, an economist
at HI Investment & Securities in Seoul. “But domestic demand
is still weak, keeping policy makers wary of exit strategies.”  
 The government has pressed the Bank of Korea to keep the
benchmark interest rate unchanged at a record-low 2 percent to
stoke growth and employment. President Lee Myung Bak, who faces
local elections in June, has put jobs at the top of the
political agenda and his administration is boosting spending
this year by 3 percent to 292.8 trillion won ($264 billion).  
 Shares, Currency  
 The benchmark Kospi stock index rose 1.1 percent to
1,755.83 as of 1:14 p.m. in Seoul. The won advanced 0.5 percent
to 1,103.45 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The won gained about 5 percent per dollar this year.  
 South Korea’s unemployment rate declined to 3.8 percent in
March from 4.4 percent in February, the biggest drop in more
than 10 years, as government programs to create public-sector
jobs gathered pace. The central bank on April 12 raised its
2010 growth forecast to 5.2 percent from a December estimate of
4.6 percent.  
 Rising consumer prices and concerns about asset bubbles
forming prompted Asian policy makers from Singapore to China to
start withdrawing monetary stimulus as the region leads a
global recovery from the deepest recession since World War II.  
 From a year earlier, South Korean GDP jumped 7.5 percent
in the first-quarter period, according to the Bloomberg survey.
The central bank said this month that the economy probably grew
1.6 percent last quarter from the previous three months.  
 Kim’s Reluctance  
 Even after the revised economic outlook and ratings
upgrade, Governor Kim Choong Soo has been reluctant to push for
a tightening of monetary policy in the face of a government
that has publicly opposed increasing borrowing costs.  
 “I don’t know whether I should ask them not to talk about
interest rates,” Kim said April 19 at a press dinner.  
 Nine of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News this
month expect borrowing costs to remain unchanged in the first
half of 2010. Park at HI Investment & Securities said that
“unless the economy jumps well ahead of expectations, the
central bank will likely stay put on rates until late this
year.”  
 Exports surged more than 30 percent from a year ago in the
first three months of this year as Hyundai Motor Co., the
nation’s largest automaker, benefited from the recalls by rival
Toyota Motor Corp. and Chinese consumers bought more expensive
televisions. The government forecasts exports will rise 13
percent this year to $410 billion.  
 Hyundai, Samsung  
 Hyundai Motor said quarterly profit jumped fivefold to a
record in the three months to March 31. Net income was 1.13
trillion won from 225 billion won a year earlier, the Seoul-
based carmaker said last week.  
 “Uncertainties on business environments and economies
persist, such as fiscal woes in advanced countries,” Hyundai
Motor Chief Financial Officer Lee Won Hee told investors on
April 22 after announcing the results. “Still, we believe
Hyundai Motor can weather those pressures with our new models,
which will spur factory utilization.”  
 Samsung Electronics Co., Asia’s biggest maker of
semiconductors, flat screens and mobile phones, said April 6
that first-quarter profit increased sevenfold after demand for
personal computers and televisions drove up prices.  
 Hynix Semiconductor Inc., the world’s second-largest
computer-memory chipmaker, reported its latest quarterly sales
more than doubled and LG Display Co., the world’s second-
largest maker of liquid-crystal displays, reported a 66 percent
increase in revenue for the January-March period.  
 Even so, consumer confidence declined for a second month
in March and Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun said last month
that the nation faces a period of “severe” unemployment as
the private sector still hasn’t recovered from effects of last
year’s global recession.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Cesilia Han in Seoul at 
 chan4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        