-- South Korea's Growth Accelerates to Faster-Than-Estimated 1.8% on Exports
-- Eunkyung Seo
-- 2010-04-27T02:55:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/south-korea-s-first-quarter-economic-growth-accelerated-to-1-8-on-exports.html

          
          
             South Korea’s economy accelerated
more than estimated last quarter as the global recovery spurred
demand for electronics and consumer spending advanced.  
 Gross domestic product increased 1.8 percent in the first
quarter from the previous three months, when it rose 0.2 percent,
the central bank said in Seoul today. That was more than 1.5
percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 12
economists. From a year earlier, GDP gained 7.8 percent.  
 Exports surged this year, driving stocks and the won higher
as Hyundai Motor Co. increased sales in the U.S. and China and
Samsung Electronics Co. posted a seven-fold increase in profit.
The central bank, which has kept interest rates unchanged for 14
straight months, forecasts the economy will expand this year at
the fastest pace since 2006.  
 “Opposition to an early exit from policy stimulus will
likely keep the Bank of Korea on hold for the next few months,”
said Brian Jackson, an emerging-markets strategist at Royal Bank
of Canada in Hong Kong. “Concern about the potential impact of
keeping rates too low for too long will prompt policy makers to
deliver rate hikes in the second half of the year.”  
 South Korea’s benchmark three-year bonds rose for a fourth
day, pushing the yield on the 4.25 percent note due December
2012 down by three basis points to 3.73 percent. The won, which
has gained 21 percent in the past year, traded at 1,104.95 per
dollar as of 10:09 a.m. in Seoul from 1,103.80 yesterday.  
 Forecasts Raised  
 Credit Suisse AG and Barclays Plc raised their forecasts
for South Korea’s GDP growth after the release of the report,
citing an improving outlook for the global economy. Credit
Suisse expects Asia’s fourth-largest economy to expand 6.2
percent this year and Barclays is predicting 5.7 percent.  
 “The economy has regained its fast recovery pace and the
second quarter will also be good,” said June Park, an economist
at Woori Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul. “Upbeat growth
may add pressure for an early rate increase, but the central
bank will likely stay pat until the second half as domestic
demand is not robust enough.”  
 The central bank has held the benchmark interest rate at a
record-low 2 percent after slashing it by 3.25 percentage points
between October 2008 and February 2009 to cushion the economy
from the global economic slump. Moody’s Investors Service raised
the nation’s credit ratings one step to A1 on April 14.  
 ‘Too Early’  
 Even after the revised economic outlook and ratings upgrade,
Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo has been reluctant to push
for a tightening of monetary policy in the face of a government
that has publicly opposed increasing borrowing costs.  
 The government says it’s “too early” to implement an exit
strategy to policy steps taken during the global financial
crisis. It sent a vice finance minister to attend the Bank of
Korea’s monthly meeting since January, breaking a practice of
more than 10 years of excluding political representatives.  
 President Lee Myung Bak’s administration boosted this
year’s budget by 3 percent to 292.8 trillion won ($256 billion)
and has said it will accelerate distribution of funds as it
seeks to maintain the recovery.  
 “The economy is recovering fast but not to an overheating
level, given the strong push from government spending,” said Oh
Suk Tae, an economist at SC First Bank Korea in Seoul. “I don’t
think the data will bring forward the rate hike, which I expect
to come in the third quarter.”  
 India, Malaysia  
 Elsewhere in Asia, policy makers are withdrawing monetary
stimulus amid concerns that stronger economic growth may fan
inflation and stoke asset bubbles. India’s central bank last
week raised interest rates for the second time in a month and
Bank Negara Malaysia increased its benchmark for the first time
in almost four years on March 4.  
 Investors betting on the South Korean economy strengthening
have driven the benchmark Kospi stock index up 3.7 percent this
year and the won 4.7 percent higher against the dollar over the
same period.  
 Goods exports rose 3.4 percent in the first quarter
compared with the previous three months, when they declined 1.5
percent, today’s report showed. Private consumption increased
0.6 percent from the fourth quarter and government spending
jumped 5.7 percent.  
 The government forecasts overseas shipments will rise 13
percent this year to $410 billion. Growth in China, South
Korea’s biggest export market, accelerated to the fastest pace
in almost three years in the first quarter, with GDP expanding
11.9 percent from a year earlier.  
 Samsung Electronics Co., Asia’s largest maker of
semiconductors, flat screens and mobile phones, reported its
first-quarter profit increased sevenfold from a year ago on
demand for personal computers and televisions.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Hyundai Motor Co. automobile frames move down a welding line at the company's factory in Asan, South Korea, on Wednesday, April 21, 2010. Photographer: Seokyong Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
