-- Sri Lanka's Jaffna Lures Investments From India After Separatists' Defeat
-- Anusha Ondaatjie
-- 2010-04-26T07:39:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/sri-lanka-s-jaffna-lures-investments-from-india-after-separatists-defeat.html

          
          
             Sri Lanka’s Jaffna peninsula, a
former stronghold of the Tamil Tiger rebels in the country’s
north, is attracting investments by Indian companies in
construction and agriculture after the defeat of the
separatists, an industry official said.  
 As many as 10 Indian companies have this month expressed
interest to set up factories for food processing, plastics and
glass recycling, garments and ready-mix concrete, Kanagasabai
Poornachandran, president of the Jaffna Chamber of Commerce and
Industry, said in a telephone interview today from his office in
Jaffna city.  
 The end of the 26-year civil war in Sri Lanka has
encouraged Indian Oil Corp. and Bharti Airtel Ltd., India’s
biggest state-run refiner and largest mobile-phone operator
respectively, to expand in the island nation. Sri Lanka could
benefit from its proximity to India just as Hong Kong profits
from being a trade hub to China, HSBC Private Bank said after
the war ended in May last year.  
 “We have great expectations for investments now that we
are a peaceful land,” Poornachandran said. He did not reveal
the names of Indian companies investing in Jaffna or the size of
their investments.  
 Indian Investments  
 President Mahinda Rajapaksa, who ended the Liberation
Tigers of Tamil Eelam’s struggle for a separate homeland for
ethnic Tamils in May last year, is counting on Indian companies
to take the lead in investing in Sri Lanka as he tries to
improve people’s livelihood.  
 Sri Lanka lies 31 kilometers (19 miles) south east of
India, the world’s fastest-growing major economy after China.  
 The LTTE held the Elephant Pass, a causeway connecting
Jaffna peninsula to the Sri Lankan mainland, since 2000. The
group also controlled the A-9 highway, linking Jaffna to the
south, forcing the government to supply weapons and food to
soldiers and civilians in the Jaffna city by air and sea.  
 The army captured the pass and road in early 2009 as it
pushed the Tamil Tigers toward the northeastern coast before
finally eliminating them.  
 Sri Lanka’s $41 billion economy may grow 6.5 percent in
2010, the fastest pace in three years, led by construction,
higher farm output and tourism, the central bank estimates.  
 Poornachandran said government programs to rebuild
transport networks and provide concessionary loans to promote
exports has spurred cultivation and fishing around Jaffna and
encouraged investments.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        