-- Sterlite Net Income Doubles, Beats Estimates on Higher Copper, Zinc Prices
-- Abhishek Shanker
-- 2010-04-26T16:11:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/sterlite-net-income-doubles-beats-estimates-on-higher-copper-zinc-prices.html

          
          
             Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd.,
owner of the nation’s biggest zinc producer, more than doubled
its fourth-quarter profit on higher prices and said it will give
investors a free share for each held.  
 Net income rose to 13.8 billion rupees ($311 million), or
15.34 rupees a share, in the three months ended March 31, from
5.98 billion rupees, or 8.44 rupees, a year earlier, according
to a Bombay Stock Exchange statement. The median estimate of 23
analysts was 11.1 billion rupees. Sales rose 64 percent to 71.1
billion rupees.  
 Rising demand for steel that goes into air conditioners and
cars is boosting sales of zinc, used to rust-proof the alloy.
Sterlite, part of London-based Vedanta Resources Plc, owns
Hindustan Zinc Ltd. The unit last month started production from
a 210,000 metric-ton capacity smelter in the western state of
Rajasthan, a quarter ahead of schedule.  
 “We expect a higher contribution from the zinc business
with the expanded capacity now in place,” said Sumeet Singhania,
who has a “buy” rating for the stock at Antique Stock Broking
Ltd. in Mumbai.  
 Splitting Shares  
 Sterlite said today it will split each of its shares into
two. The Mumbai-based company’s stock rose 6 percent to 842.60
rupees at the close of trading in Mumbai. The key Sensitive
Index of the Bombay Stock Exchange rose 0.3 percent.  
 Revenue from the zinc and lead businesses doubled, while
copper sales rose 68 percent, Sterlite said. Raw material costs
during the quarter rose 38 percent.  
 “The cost during this period was largely impacted by
excess credit and the fact that royalty also underwent change
which is linked with the LME price,” Mahendra Singh Mehta,
chief executive officer, Sterlite, said in a conference call.  
 Zinc prices for three-month delivery averaged $2,307 a
metric ton in the quarter ended March 31, compared with $1,208 a
year earlier, according to London Metal Exchange data.  
 Sterlite, India’s biggest copper producer, also benefited
from rising prices of the metal used in appliances such as
refrigerators. The average LME price of copper more than doubled
in the March quarter, according to the data.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        