-- Subbarao's Cautious Rate Rise May Hurt India's Economy, Deutsche Bank Says
-- Kartik Goyal
-- 2010-04-26T09:59:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/subbarao-s-cautious-rate-rise-may-hurt-india-s-economy-deutsche-bank-says.html

          
          
             Indian central bank Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao’s “cautious” approach to raising interest
rates runs the risk of causing the economy to overheat, Deutsche
Bank AG said.  
 “The Reserve Bank of India could well be faced with an
overheating economy in the second half of the year and be
cornered to raise rates more sharply and thus undermine markets
and the economy,” Deutsche Bank economists Taimur Baig and
Kaushik Das wrote in an e-mailed note today.  
 India’s central bank is aiming to keep interest rates at a
level that would help curb inflation, support economic growth
and reduce the government’s borrowing costs. Subbarao on April
20 raised policy rates and the cash reserve ratio by a quarter
point each.  
 “A better approach would have been to take advantage of
the almost inexorable rise of economic momentum at the present
juncture by raising rates more frequently and communicating the
central bank’s goal clearly,” Baig and Das said in the note.  
 The economists said real interest rates in India would
still be negative even after a 100 basis-point increase in the
central bank’s benchmark rates. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  
 The Reserve Bank’s reverse-repurchase rate is currently
3.75 percent, the repurchase rate 5.25 percent and the cash
reserve ratio 6 percent.  
 Benchmark wholesale-price inflation accelerated to 9.9
percent in March, the fastest in 17 months. Deutsche Bank
expects the inflation rate to be 6.5 percent by March 31, 2011,
more than the central bank’s 5.5 percent forecast. The estimate
depends on monsoon rains this year and the cost of global oil,
according to today’s note.  
 The monsoon rainfall may be normal this year after an
unexpected drought last year. Rains in the June-September rainy
season may be 98 percent of the 50-year average, the state-run
Indian Meteorological Department said April 23.  
 Normal monsoon rains will help ease inflationary
expectations, Reserve Bank Deputy Governor K.C. Chakrabarty said
in Mumbai today.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        