-- Raw Sugar Advances Most in a Week on U.S. Quota Increase, Drought in China
-- M. Shankar
-- 2010-04-26T19:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/sugar-rises-most-in-week-in-new-york-on-u-s-quota-increase-china-drought.html

          
          
             Raw sugar rose the most in a week
after the U.S. increased its import quota and on speculation
that drought in China will curb production and tighten global
supplies.  
 An additional 200,000 short tons (181,437 metric tons) will
be added to the original quota of 1.23 million tons for the year
ending Sept. 30, the U.S. Department of Agriculture said on
April 23. Drought in Guangxi and Yunnan, China’s top producing
regions, reduced output, Liu Xiaonan, an official at the
National Development and Reform Commission, said at a
conference.  
 “The rebound this morning might be attributed to the fact
that the USDA announced Friday an increase in the import
tariff,” Michael McDougall, a senior vice president at Newedge
USA in New York, said today in a report. “China will eventually
have to increase her imports as will the countries that have let
their stocks fall to low levels.”  
 Raw sugar for July delivery climbed 0.1 cent, or 0.6
percent, to 15.85 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York,
the biggest gain for a most-active contract since April 19. The
price fell 5.6 percent in the previous two sessions.  
 “China’s sugar market has a deficit, and it is a
relatively big deficit in our history,” Liu told the Guangxi
Sugar Market Net. China is the world’s largest consumer of the
sweetener after India.  
 Sugar prices more than doubled last year as excess rain in
Brazil and a weak monsoon in India curbed output in the world’s
biggest sugar-cane growers. The London-based International Sugar
Organization forecasts an 8 million-ton production shortfall in
the 12 months ending in September.  
 “From a supply and demand perspective, we are historically
in a tight market,” said Jake Wetherall, a trader with Rabobank
Ltd. in London. “You are still facing a near-term tightness.”  
 White sugar for August delivery slipped $1.70, or 0.4
percent, to $480.10 a metric ton on London’s Liffe exchange, the
fifth-straight decline.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
M. Shankar in London at 
 mshankar@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        