-- Swire Properties Said to Seek as Much as $2.7 Billion in Its Hong Kong IPO
-- Chia-Peck Wong
-- 2010-04-26T04:03:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/swire-properties-said-to-seek-as-much-as-2-7-billion-in-its-hong-kong-ipo.html

          
          
             Swire Properties Ltd., landlord to
Time Warner Inc. and Societe Generale in Hong Kong, plans to
raise as much as HK$20.8 billion ($2.7 billion) in an initial
public offering, said four people with knowledge of the plan.  
 The unit of Swire Pacific Ltd. plans to sell 910 million
new shares, or a 13.79 percent stake, at HK$20.75 to HK$22.90
each, according to the people, who declined to be identified
because the information is private. Dutch pension fund manager
APG Groep NV plans to buy Swire Properties shares worth $200
million, two of the people said yesterday.  
 The sale comes as office rents in Hong Kong may rise this
year as companies start to rehire amid a more optimistic
economic outlook. Prime office rents on Hong Kong Island, which
fell 19.6 percent last year, may rise 4 percent in 2010,
according to real estate broker CB Richard Ellis Group Inc.  
 “Swire is attractive because it’s an established and well-
known company already with a good and well-known track record in
Hong Kong and China,” said Andrew Sullivan, a sales trader at
Mainfirst Securities Hong Kong Ltd. “Swire’s Hong Kong
portfolio is seen as a well-diversified portfolio -- in terms of
property type and tenant -- and their developments in China are
following a tried and tested formula which will appeal to long-
term institutions.”  
 Swire Properties, the biggest commercial landlord in
eastern Hong Kong island, owns Pacific Place shopping and office
complex in Admiralty, where Deloitte & Touche LLP and Societe
Generale are tenants. In eastern Hong Kong Island, Swire’s
buildings include the 5.99 million square foot TaiKoo Place and
house companies such as Time Warner and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 Price Range  
 Hongkong Land Holdings Ltd., one of the biggest office
landlords in the city’s financial hub, said last month it
expects high-occupancy levels and “steady rentals” this year.  
 At the top end of the range, Swire Properties’ IPO would be
the largest in Hong Kong since the November 2007 share sale of
China Railway Group Ltd.’s HK$22.1 billion Hong Kong first-time
share sale, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “This is a quality issue,” Marco Mak, an analyst based in
Hong Kong with Taifook Securities Group Ltd. “There have been
very few new real estate IPOs by Hong Kong developers, so
institutional investors should be interested in it as a core
holding.”  
 The indicative price range represents a discount of between
8.3 percent and 16.1 percent to the estimated net asset value at
the end of 2010, three of the people said. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc and Morgan Stanley are arranging the IPO.  
 Valuation  
 The price range values Swire Properties at 31.4 times to
34.6 times this year’s earnings estimated by the same banks,
said two of the people.  
 Hongkong Land, owner of the Landmark and Exchange Square
complexes, trades at about 16 times this year’s earnings per
share in Singapore, according to Bloomberg data.  
 APG managed pension assets of about 240 billion euros ($319
billion) as of Dec. 31, according to its Web site. Swire
Properties picked the Dutch fund manager as an investor because
of its understanding of the property market, the two people said.  
 Created as a trading company in London in 1816, Swire
Pacific owns 42 percent of Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd., Hong
Kong’s biggest carrier, and also bottles Coca-Cola in China and
supplies offshore oil rigs.  
 “What will set it apart from the Hong Kong developers is
that it will be a pure property play,” said Mainfirst’s
Sullivan. “The others like Sun Hung Kai, Cheung Kong, Henderson
all operate other businesses and hence have an element of a
holding company discount. Swire is looking to unlock some of
that.”  
 IPO Market  
 Hong Kong IPOs raised HK$31.1 billion so far this year, 13-
fold more than the same period last year when the global credit
crunch sapped investor demand for new stocks, according to
Bloomberg data.  
 Swire Properties’ will be the second real estate IPO in
Hong Kong this year, after investors turned cool toward Chinese
developers after 30 of them raised $15.7 billion in first-time
share sales in the city since 1999, according to Bloomberg data.
China SCE Property Holdings Ltd. raised HK$1.56 billion in a
Hong Kong IPO in February.  
 Property IPOs in Hong Kong fetched a combined $8.6 billion
in 2007. Sunac China Holdings Ltd. and Excellence Real Estate
Group, two Chinese developers, last year delayed Hong Kong IPOs
that sought as much as HK$10 billion between them, according to
Bloomberg data.  
 Swire Properties’ IPO is to be priced on May 7 and the
stock will start trading around May 14, said three of the people.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Chia-Peck Wong in Singapore at 
 cpwong@bloomberg.net ;
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Construction works takes place on a residential project, top right, called 53 Stubbs Road, designed by Frank Gehry, in Hong Kong, on Sept. 29, 2009. Photographer: Jerome Favre/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Paul Gordon reports on planned initial public offerings by Hong Kong companies.
     Swire Properties Ltd. plans to raise as much as HK$20.8 billion ($2.7 billion) in an initial public offering, said two people with knowledge of the plan. L’Occitane Ltd., a French maker of beauty products, and its parent are planning an IPO of as much as HK$5.49 billion ($707 million) to open new stores. Bloomberg's Susan Li also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     People enter the Pacific Place shopping mall, a development by Swire Pacific Ltd., in Hong Kong, on Aug. 5, 2009. Photographer: Daniel J. Groshong/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Swire Properties Ltd.'s Sanlitun Village in Beijing  
                       
                         
                           Nelson Ching/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Pedestrians walk outside Swire Properties Ltd.'s Sanlitun Village commercial development in Beijing on April 26, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Pedestrians walk outside Swire Properties Ltd.'s Sanlitun Village commercial development in Beijing on April 26, 2010. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
