-- Swiss Market Index Climbs for Second Day; Julius Baer, UBS, Holcim Advance
-- Daniela Silberstein
-- 2010-04-26T16:04:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/swiss-stocks-climb-julius-baer-ubs-holcim-lead-the-advance.html

          
          
             Swiss stocks rose for a second day
as analysts recommended shares of financial and construction
companies, overshadowing renewed concern about the ability of
Greece to tackle its debt crisis.  
 Julius Baer Group Ltd. climbed 1.8 percent after Deutsche
Bank AG recommended buying the shares. UBS AG advanced 2.6
percent. Holcim Ltd. gained 3.4 percent as Exane BNP Paribas
raised its share-price estimate for the world’s second-biggest
cement maker.  
 The Swiss Market Index of the largest and most actively
traded companies rose 35.77, or 0.5 percent, to 6,803.74. The
gauge has rallied 3.9 percent this year as central banks
maintained record low interest rates and the European Union
agreed a contingency rescue plan to help prevent Greece from
defaulting on its debt. The broader Swiss Performance Index
advanced 0.5 percent today.  
 “The Swiss market could continue its moderate upward
trend,” Claude Zehnder, head of brokerage at Zuercher
Kantonalbank, wrote in a note. “Quarterly earnings overall have
been good and speak for rising markets.”  
 Greek bonds tumbled, pushing yields to the highest since at
least 1998, on concern Germany isn’t moving fast enough to agree
to the terms of the 45 billion-euro ($60 billion) aid package.  
 Debt Crisis  
 The Financial Times cited German Finance Minister Wolfgang
Schaeuble as saying Greece must firm up plans for deficit
reductions to qualify for aid, while Citigroup Inc. said a
reorganization of the debt or need for extra support looks
“unavoidable.” Portugal’s bonds declined on concern the debt
crisis is spreading.  
 Julius Baer increased 1.8 percent to 38.8 Swiss francs. The
120-year-old private bank was raised to “buy” from “hold” at
Deutsche Bank, which cited stronger GDP growth, rallying
markets, more wealth creation and less regulatory uncertainty.  
 UBS, Switzerland’s biggest bank by assets, rose 2.6 percent
to 17.59 francs.  
 Holcim rallied 3.4 percent to 84.8 francs. Exane lifted its
share-price estimate to 88 francs from 81 francs, saying the
cement maker is “one of the best stocks to play the medium-term
growth potential of emerging markets and India.”  
 Panalpina Welttransport Holding AG jumped 3.6 percent to
94.3 francs. The freight forwarder was added to Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.’s “conviction buy” list.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniela Silberstein in Zurich at 
 dsilberstei2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        