-- British Ambassador Escapes Suicide Attack in Yemen
-- Henry Meyer
-- 2010-04-26T10:08:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/u-k-ambassador-escapes-suicide-bomb-attack-on-motorcade-in-yemeni-capital.html

          
          
             The U.K. ambassador to Yemen
escaped a suicide attack on his motorcade today in the capital,
Sana’a, four months after the Yemen-based branch of al-Qaeda
tried to blow up a U.S. airliner.  
 A suicide bomber blew himself up shortly before Ambassador
Tim Torlot’s motorcade passed, about 2 kilometers (1.2 miles)
from the British Embassy, an Interior Ministry official at the
scene of the bombing said. Three bystanders, a woman and two
men, were wounded and hospitalized, said the official, who
requested anonymity because he is not authorized to speak to the
media.  
 The U.K. Foreign Office said a “small” explosion took
place next to the ambassador’s car, according to an e-mailed
statement. No embassy staff or British nationals were wounded,
the Foreign Office said.  
 Yemen, an impoverished nation on the Arabian Peninsula, has
become a base for al-Qaeda as the terrorist group comes under
pressure in Pakistan and Afghanistan. The attempted
assassination of the U.K. envoy marks the first attack on a
foreign target since Yemen began a crackdown following the bomb
plot against the U.S. airliner.  
 Detroit Flight  
 The Arabian Peninsula branch of al-Qaeda took
responsibility for the failed Dec. 25 airliner attack. Nigerian
Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab was charged with trying to blow up the
Northwest Airlines flight with 278 passengers as it approached
Detroit.  
 Yemen said on Dec. 24 it had foiled a planned al-Qaeda
attack on the British Embassy that was modeled on twin suicide
car bombings of the U.S. Embassy in September 2008. The
explosions killed 17 people, including seven security guards and
seven attackers.  
 The Yemeni Interior Ministry said that today’s attack bore
“all the hallmarks” of al-Qaeda. The suicide bomber detonated
an explosive belt, it said in a statement on its Web site.  
 The embassies of the U.S., U.K. and some other foreign
nations closed for a few days in early January, citing the
threat of a terrorist attack. The British Embassy was closed
today temporarily.  
 John Brennan, President Barack Obama’s assistant for
homeland security and counterterrorism, said on Jan. 3 that
there were probably several hundred al-Qaeda members in Yemen
and that the U.S. was concerned they may be training other
operatives for attacks in the U.S. and elsewhere.  
 Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil exporter and holder
of one-fifth of global reserves, also faces a threat from al-
Qaeda militants based across the border with Yemen. In August,
the group attempted to assassinate a top Saudi internal security
official, Prince Muhammad bin Nayef bin Abdulaziz.  
 Secessionist Movement  
 The Yemeni government faces a secessionist movement in the
south and, until a cease-fire in February, was battling
insurgents in the north in a conflict that drew in Saudi Arabia
late last year.  
 Yemen is the poorest Arab country, and the government
expects oil reserves that fund 70 percent of the budget to run
out over the next decade.  
 A London aid conference in January tied further assistance
for Yemen to political and economic improvements that would
allow better use of foreign aid.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Khaled Abdullah in Sana’a via the Dubai newsroom at
   kabdullah2@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Dubai at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        