-- U.S. Stocks to Fall as Chronic Unemployment Reaches Record: Chart of Day
-- Masaki Kondo
-- 2010-04-26T23:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/u-s-stocks-to-fall-as-chronic-unemployment-reaches-record-chart-of-day.html

          
          
             The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index is
poised to fall as chronic unemployment rises to a record among
jobless Americans, according to Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Co.
the brokerage unit of Japan’s biggest bank by market value.  
 The CHART OF THE DAY shows the S&P 500 and ratio of
Americans jobless for more than 27 weeks relative to the total
number of unemployed. The equities gauge has jumped 80 percent
from a more than 12-year low on March 9, 2009, even as long-term
joblessness surged to 44.1 percent in March, almost double the
level a year earlier and highest since records began in 1948.
The lower panel tracks overall unemployment, which has declined
0.4 percentage point since reaching a 26-year peak in October.  
 “The government’s stimulus measures have driven up stock
prices” and helped disguise the unemployment problem, said
Seiki Orimi, a senior investment strategist at Tokyo-based
Mitsubishi UFJ. “Stocks will fall, at some point. For now,
people in the market are tricking themselves” into believing in
a U.S. jobs recovery.  
 Consumer spending accounted for about 70 percent of the
world’s largest economy in the fourth quarter, when gross
domestic product expanded at a 5.6 percent annual rate, the
fastest pace in more than six years. Output in the three months
to March probably expanded 3 percent, based on the median
forecast of 60 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The S&P 500 may
fall as much as 5 percent in an “overdue” decline, according
to a technical analysis this month by Thomas Schroeder, managing
director at Chart Partners Group Ltd.  
 Jobless Benefits  
 The U.S. posted a budget deficit for a record 18th straight
month in March, reflecting gains in government spending to boost
the economy. President Barack Obama signed a bill on April 15
extending jobless benefits for hundreds of thousands of
Americans to June 2, and urged Congress to pass another measure
offering them for the rest of the year.  
 “Historically, people unemployed for more than six months
experience a significant deterioration of vocational skills and
face severe difficulties in finding their next job,” Richard
Koo, chief economist at Tokyo-based Nomura Research Institute
Ltd., wrote in a report on April 20.  
 (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
Hideki Sagiike in Tokyo at 
 hsagiike@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        