-- U.S. May Start Selling Citigroup Stock As Soon as Today
-- Bradley Keoun
-- 2010-04-26T20:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/u-s-treasury-will-sell-as-much-as-1-5-billion-shares-of-citigroup-stock.html

          
          
             The U.S. Treasury Department may
start selling its 7.7 billion Citigroup Inc. shares as soon as
today, in the biggest step since December to wean the bailed-out
bank off government support.  
 The Treasury has initially granted underwriter Morgan
Stanley authorization to sell 1.5 billion of the shares, New
York-based Citigroup said today in a registration statement
filed with securities regulators. The filing allows Treasury to
begin selling immediately, said two people with knowledge of the
matter, who declined to be identified because they weren’t
authorized to comment beyond the public statements.  
 Citigroup had to get a $45 billion bailout in late 2008
when it almost collapsed. Chief Executive Vikram Pandit has
taken steps to end the bank’s use of government support, while
President Barack Obama says he wants to recoup “every single
dime” of taxpayer money from the $700 billion Troubled Asset
Relief Program used to provide bailout funds.  
 “We’re putting TARP out of its misery,” Treasury
Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said in an interview with CNN
television aired yesterday. “This is going to cost us much less
in fiscal terms than even the S&L crisis,” he said, referring
to the collapse of savings and loan banks in the 1980s and
1990s.  
 The bank’s shares fell 25 cents, or 5.1 percent, to $4.61
as of 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 Based on that price, the Treasury’s overall stake has a
value of about $36 billion, for a paper profit of $11 billion.
The government got the shares by converting $25 billion of
bailout money into common stock at $3.25 each.  
 Pre-Arranged Plan  
 The Treasury will sell its common shares in the market “in
an orderly fashion under a pre-arranged written trading plan,”
the department said in a statement. The government devised the
plan earlier this year to help insulate officials from
politically driven claims they mistimed the market and got too
little profit from the sales, people familiar with the matter
said at the time.  
 Citigroup spokesman Stephen Cohen declined to comment. The
Treasury stake is the government’s biggest remaining investment
in Citigroup, after the bank repaid $20 billion of the bailout
funds in December. The government still owns about $5 billion of
Citigroup’s trust preferred securities, a class of junior debt.
The Treasury didn’t release further details about the timing of
the sale of common shares.  
 Morgan Stanley  
 According to the filing, Citigroup must pay Morgan
Stanley’s fees for underwriting the Treasury’s offering. Morgan
Stanley was chosen in March after the government interviewed
several investment banks, including Citigroup.  
 Morgan Stanley, the sixth-largest U.S. bank by assets, will
get 0.3 cents for each share sold on electronic trading systems
and 1.75 cents for shares sold through other means, according to
the filing. That works out to total fees of $23 million to $135
million. The New York-based firm will also get a one-time
administration fee of $500,000.  
 The Citigroup shares will be sold gradually over the course
of 2010, the agency said March 29 in a statement. Citigroup will
provide quarterly updates on the number of shares sold by the
Treasury through Morgan Stanley, and the amount of fees paid by
the bank to Morgan Stanley, according to the filing.  
 Because of the “doctrine of sovereign immunity,” the
Treasury is immune from claims under securities-law violations
that apply to most other traders and investors, according to the
filing.  
 Pandit’s View  
 Pandit said on April 20 at the bank’s annual shareholder
meeting that he felt “a whole lot better” than he did a year
ago and maintained that the bank is “positioned for growth.”  
 The Treasury’s trust preferred securities in Citigroup, and
warrants to buy additional common shares, will be sold
separately, the department said.  
 Citigroup’s associate general counsel, Michael Tarpley, is
the bank’s main legal adviser on the Treasury sale, according to
the filing. The law firm Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP is
advising Treasury, while Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP
and Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP are advising Morgan Stanley.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Timothy Geithner, U.S. treasury secretary, speaks at the Group of 20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors' meeting in Washington on April 23, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Pedestrians pass a Citigroup Inc. Citibank branch in New York on April 19, 2010. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
