-- Most Stocks Decline on Worries About Finance Overhaul
-- Whitney Kisling
-- 2010-04-26T20:47:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/u-s-stock-futures-gain-caterpillar-fiserv-advance-in-europe.html

          
          
             Most U.S. stocks declined, pulling
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down from a 19-month high, as
concern that proposed legislation will hurt banks overshadowed
improving earnings at Caterpillar Inc. and Whirlpool Corp.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. helped
lead financial shares lower as Congress prepared to vote on
whether to open debate on the financial overhaul. Citigroup Inc.
tumbled 5.1 percent on the Treasury Department’s plan to sell as
many as 1.5 billion shares. Caterpillar gained 4.2 percent on
its first earnings increase in seven quarters, while Whirlpool
rallied 10 percent as the appliance maker lifted its forecast.  
 About eight stocks fell for every seven that rose on U.S.
exchanges. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.4 percent
to 1,212.05 at the 4 p.m. close in New York. The Dow Jones
Industrial Average gained 0.75 point, less than 0.1 percent, to
11,205.03, led by Caterpillar. Stocks in Europe and Asia rose.  
 “The market’s got plenty of reasons to be choppy and
down,” said Stephen Wood, who helps manage $176 billion as
chief market strategist for Russell Investments in New York.
“We are on the eve of an overhaul with Congress, we don’t know
what the details are. That’s probably contributing to the
move.”  
 Earnings Season  
 Stocks advanced earlier as earnings reports signaled the
economic recovery is gaining momentum. Profit estimates for S&P
500 companies rose 9.1 percent on average in April, twice the
gain in prices and the largest monthly increase since at least
2006, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The S&P 500 started today
trading at 14.2 times forecasts for its companies’ profits,
lower than any time since 1990, except for the six months after
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed.  
 JPMorgan fell 2.3 percent to $43.89. A gauge of financial
companies lost the most among 10 groups in the S&P 500, dropping
1.7 percent.  
 Goldman Sachs retreated 3.4 percent to $152.03. Executives
and traders from the most profitable Wall Street firm in history
will be questioned tomorrow by a Congressional panel about
trading in the U.S. mortgage market, less than two weeks after
the company was sued for fraud by the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  
 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein will
tell the committee that the firm didn’t wager against clients
and didn’t make a big bet against the housing markets, according
to a prepared text of his remarks.  
 Senate negotiators plan to include in financial-overhaul
legislation a provision that would force JPMorgan, Bank of
America Corp. and rival banks to wall off swaps trading desks in
a financial-regulation bill that may be debated this week,
according to a Democratic Senate aide briefed on the talks.  
 ‘More Vulnerable Than Ever’  
 Michael Barr, the assistant Treasury secretary for
financial institutions, said the U.S. is “more vulnerable than
ever” to another crisis. He spoke at an independent community
bankers summit from Washington.  
 PMI Group Inc. fell 2.6 percent to $6.46. The third-largest
U.S. mortgage insurer posted a quarterly loss greater than
analysts estimated. The company also said it will offer $400
million of common stock and $200 million in convertible senior
notes due 2020.  
 Citigroup declined 5.1 percent to $4.61 after the U.S.
Treasury Department said it plans to sell “up to” 1.5 billion
shares in the company as it weans the bailed-out bank off
government support. The deal is part of a goal announced last
month.  
 Travelers, DeVry  
 Travelers Cos., the property insurer, declined 2.7 percent
to $51.92 after saying first-quarter profit slid, missing
analysts’ estimates, as catastrophe claims cost increased.  
 DeVry Inc., the owner of for-profit colleges, slid the most
in the S&P 500 after Credit Suisse AG cut the shares to
“neutral.” The stock fell 5.8 percent to $65.45.  
 Greek stocks and bonds tumbled, pushing yield premiums to
German debt to the highest since at least 1998, on speculation
Germany may refuse to guarantee an early release of bailout
funds. The yield premium investors demand to hold the nation’s
10-year bonds rather than bunds climbed to 652 basis points.  
 Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of bulldozers,
climbed 4.2 percent to $71.65. The company posted first-quarter
earnings of 50 cents a share, excluding costs related to a
change in health-care laws, beating the 39-cent average estimate
of analysts. Caterpillar also raised its full-year forecast on
an improving global economy.  
 Whirlpool climbed 10 percent to $112.42. The world’s
largest appliance maker said it will earn $8 to $8.50 a share in
2010, higher than its earlier estimate of $6.50 to $7 a share.
Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had estimated profit of $6.83 on
average.  
 ‘Extraordinarily Well’  
 “There are two things that really matter to the markets,
one is the economic numbers and two is the earnings numbers,”
said Hugh Johnson, who oversees $1.78 billion as chairman of
Albany, New York-based Johnson Illington. “If you ask yourself
the question ‘How’s the earnings season been going?’ It’s been
going extraordinarily well.”  
 More than 80 percent of S&P 500 companies that have
reported quarterly earnings have surpassed estimates. Profits
should increase 44 percent in the first quarter, according to
analyst estimates as of April 23.  
 Hertz Global Holdings Inc., the world’s largest car-rental
company by market value, raised its full-year earnings forecast
as business travelers and holidaymakers resume trips and hire
more cars. The company also agreed to buy Dollar Thrifty
Automotive Group Inc. for $41 a share, a 5.5 percent premium
based on Dollar’s closing price last week. Hertz shares climbed
14 percent to $14.69, while Dollar Thrifty increased 11 percent
to $43.07.  
 Eastman Kodak Rallies  
 Eastman Kodak Co., the 130-year-old photography company,
surged 11 percent to $8.90. Camera-maker Canon Inc. said today
it raised its full-year forecasts for profit and revenue, as
sales in Asia boosted earnings. Kodak is due to report quarterly
earnings on April 29.  
 Trading of call options to buy the stock surged to a seven-
month high of 82,252 contracts April 23, eight times the four-
week average. Almost all of that volume was concentrated in the
January $10 calls, which rose 30 percent that day and have
climbed another 26 percent today.  
 Digirad Corp., the maker of medical imaging products,
advanced 16 percent to $2.39 after saying it received U.S. Food
and Drug Administration clearance for a nuclear medicine camera.  
 Office Depot Inc., the second-largest office-supplies
retailer, rallied 5.9 percent to $8.95 after Credit Suisse AG
raised the shares to “neutral” from “underperform,” saying
the company could benefit from future improvements in
employment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Tobias Levkovich, chief U.S. equity strategist at Citigroup Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton about the outlook for U.S. stocks.
     Levkovich also discusses the impact of the economic recovery on equity prices and some of his industry picks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Wayne Wilbanks, chief investment officer at Wilbanks, Smith & Thomas, talks with Bloomberg's Carol Massar and Matt Miller about the performance of the U.S. stock market and outlook for corporate earnings.
     Wilbanks and Matt Shapiro of MWS Capital also discuss the impact of the Securities and Exchange Commission's lawsuit against Goldman Sachs Group Inc. on financial stocks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
