-- U.S. Obsession With Yuan's Valuation a `Mistake,' Commerce Chamber Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-04-26T06:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/u-s-obsession-with-yuan-s-valuation-a-mistake-chamber-of-commerce-says.html

          
          
             The U.S.’s disproportionate
emphasis on pushing for a stronger yuan is a “mistake,” the
American Chamber of Commerce in China said.  
 A stronger Chinese currency isn’t likely to result in a
“huge number” of jobs created, the group said in an annual
white paper. AmCham directors will travel to Washington next
week to put their case that a stronger yuan won’t necessarily be
good news for the U.S. economy, China president Christian Murck
told reporters in Beijing today.  
 “A single-minded emphasis on that one issue is probably a
mistake,” Murck said.  
 While a stronger yuan may help U.S. exporters and China
should eventually move to a free-floating currency, costs for
large retailers sourcing products from China may rise, Murck
said.  
 A survey released earlier this month found 64 percent of
220 member companies reporting no long-term impact if the yuan
appreciated by 5 percent against the U.S. dollar. Another 21
percent of the companies said it would boost profitability and 7
percent said it would cause them to “seriously reevaluate”
their business plans in China.  
 The U.S. government should instead press China to better
protect intellectual property, change rules that limit foreign
ownership, and reduce tariffs, the Chamber said in the report,
released today.  
 Questioning Viability  
 “While most members continue to be optimistic about
China’s market potential, many have begun questioning their
long-term viability in China as they consider the obstacles
presented by an increasingly difficult regulatory environment,”
the Beijing-based group said in a 323-page annual white paper
published in English and Chinese.  
 The report presented what Matthew Estes, president of
Beijing-based infant-care company BabyCare Ltd. called a
“dichotomy.” U.S. companies in China are increasingly relying
on China to drive growth. General Motors Co. sold more cars in
China in the first three months of this year than in the U.S.
The white paper said almost four in five member companies said
they plan to increase investment in China this year, with 51
percent saying that growth would exceed 10 percent.  
 At the same time, U.S. companies in China are concerned
about the “increasingly difficult regulatory environment” and
the country’s protectionist industrial policies, the report said.  
 “AmCham China companies are quite optimistic the future
will be better,” Estes told reporters. Yet U.S. firms are
facing “growing protectionism, growing difficulty and
consistency in implementation of regulations,” he said.  
 AmCham’s report, delivered to both the Chinese and U.S.
governments, said that the group expects “an increase in trade
tensions” between the two countries.  
 Biggest Concerns  
 In a member survey released by the Beijing-based group
earlier this month, U.S. firms reported that their biggest
challenge was “inconsistent regulatory interpretation” on the
part of China’s government. This included new rules mandating
purchases of home-grown technology and irregular enforcement of
laws.  
 In past years personnel issues, such as hiring experienced
managers, were top concerns.  
 The China operations of U.S. multinational companies were
more profitable than their global operations as a whole. Forty-
six percent of 240 companies responding to the survey earlier
this month said their operating margins were significantly or
slightly higher in China than elsewhere, an increase from 35
percent in 2008.  
 For Related News and Information:
Most-read stories on China: MNI CHINA 1W <GO>
For top economic news: TOP ECO <GO>
For top China news: TOP CHINA <GO>
Credit crunch page: WCC <GO>
Government relief programs: GGRP <GO>  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Thio Chin Loo, a senior currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA, talks about the outlook for a revaluation of the yuan and the impact of a Greek aid package on the Euro. 
     She speaks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis from Singapore. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
