-- UAL, Continental Merger Talks Said to Hinge on Stock Ratio
-- Mary Jane Credeur
-- 2010-04-26T20:38:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/ual-continental-merger-negotiations-are-said-to-hinge-on-stock-swap-ratio.html

          
          
             UAL Corp.’s United Airlines and
Continental Airlines Inc. are at odds over how to value their
planned no-premium stock merger, with negotiations focused on
what time period to use for the stock-swap ratio, said three
people familiar with the situation.  
 Continental prefers a ratio based on stock prices before
April 7 reports that United was in merger talks, said two of the
people, who declined to be identified because the discussions
are private. United, whose stock has outperformed Continental’s
since then, is pushing for a later date, they said.
     United Chief Executive Officer Glenn Tilton and Continental
CEO Jeffery Smisek are working on details of an accord after
reaching a tentative agreement on some points, the people said.
In the plan under discussion, Tilton would become chairman of
the combined company and Smisek would be CEO, the people said.  
 “Both sides probably want to feel like they’re doing some
sort of haggling,” said Vicki Bryan, a debt analyst at New
York-based Gimme Credit LLC. “They would benefit almost equally
from this merger, and both of them have a lot at risk if this
falls through.”
     Continental’s shares were worth about 1.08 times United’s
shares on April 7, and United’s rally caused that ratio to slip
to about 0.96 as of April 23.  
 Today’s Trading  
 The ratio today was 1.03, as Continental rose 98 cents, or
4.5 percent, to $22.99 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading, while UAL slid 63 cents, or 2.7 percent, to
$22.36 on the Nasdaq Stock Market. UAL will report first-quarter
financial results tomorrow morning.  
 Continental rose 98 cents, or 4.5 percent, to $22.99 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, while UAL
slid 63 cents, or 2.7 percent, to $22.36 on the Nasdaq Stock
Market. UAL and Continental gained 18 percent and 12 percent
respectively from April 7 through today.  
 “The market is taking a look at the stories and thinking
that there is a chance that Continental will get more of a
premium than previously thought if there is a merger
agreement,” Jim Corridore, a Standard & Poor’s equity analyst,
said today in an interview. “That would be more costly for
United, pushing United down.”  
 Corridore, who is based in New York, rates Continental as a
“strong buy” and recommends holding shares of UAL.  
 At stake with the ratio negotiations is $200 million or
more of market value in the merged company to which each side
lays claim. The airlines’ combined stock market values were
about $6.9 billion as of April 23, and the dispute may amount to
4 percent or more of that total.  
 $23-Per-Share Deal  
 Because the shares of both companies have been trading
around $20 to $23 over the past couple weeks, “it looks like
the market thinks this is a $23-per-share deal,” Bryan said.  
 On April 23, Continental’s Smisek and United CEO Tilton
spoke to discuss the exchange ratio, said one person briefed on
the matter. The executives failed to resolve their differences
on that call or on a subsequent one, though they plan to
negotiate further, this person said.  
 “I don’t think either carrier wants to walk away from this
deal or let it fall apart over $2 or $3 a share,” Bryan said.  
 David Messing, a spokesman for Houston-based Continental,
declined to comment as did Jean Medina, a spokeswoman for
Chicago-based United.  
 After the end of regular trading on April 7, the New York
Times first reported merger talks between United and US Airways
Group Inc. Discussions between Continental and UAL began after
that, people with knowledge of the conversations have said.  
 US Airways Talks  
 US Airways called off its negotiations with United last
week. The Tempe, Arizona-based carrier halted the discussions
because it concluded United favored a Continental tie-up, people
close to the talks have said.  
 United and Continental are the third- and fourth-largest
U.S. airlines by traffic, and together they would surpass Delta
Air Lines Inc., which took the No. 1 spot by buying Northwest
Airlines Corp. in 2008. Broader route networks help airlines
funnel in more passengers.  
 Blending their route systems would produce two hubs at U.S.
East Coast business centers, United’s at Washington Dulles and
Continental’s at Newark, New Jersey. United’s routes include
flights between Washington and Moscow, a city not served by
Continental.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        