-- Countrywide, UBS, JPMorgan, Goldman in Court News
-- Elizabeth Amon
-- 2010-04-26T10:42:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/ubs-healthsouth-uralchem-bg-kazakh-claims-citic-pacific-in-court-news.html

          
          
             Countrywide Financial Corp.
investors, led by a group of New York retirement funds, agreed
to settle a class-action lawsuit for more than $600 million, a
person familiar with the case said.  
 U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer in  Los Angeles  in
December certified a class of investors who bought Countrywide
shares or certain debt securities from March 12, 2004, to March
7, 2008. The U.S. appeals court in  San Francisco  on April 19
denied the defendants permission to appeal that ruling. No
settlement papers have been filed.  
 Shirley Norton, a spokeswoman for  Bank of America Corp .,
which acquired Countrywide in 2008, declined to comment on April
23. Jennifer Bankston, a spokeswoman for Labaton Sucharow LLP,
the firm representing the pension funds, said mediation between
the parties took place this month and declined to comment on the
settlement.  
 The New York State Common Retirement Fund and five New York
City pension funds claimed former Countrywide Chief Executive
Officer  Angelo Mozilo  and other executives hid from them that
the company was fueling its growth by letting underwriting
standards deteriorate. Bank of America acquired Calabasas,
California-based Countrywide, which was the biggest U.S. home
lender, in July 2008.  
 David Siegel, a lawyer for Mozilo, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  
 The class-action lawsuit names 50 defendants, including
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and 23 other Countrywide underwriters. It also named the
auditing firm KPMG LLP. The underwriters and KPMG are accused of
securities-law violations and not fraud.  
 Dean Kitchens, a lawyer representing the underwriters, and
Todd Gordinier, a lawyer representing KPMG, didn’t immediately
return calls seeking comment April 23.  
 The case is In re Countrywide Financial Corp. Securities
Litigation, 07-05295, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Los Angeles).  
 UBS to Pay $217 Million to Settle HealthSouth Case  
 UBS AG agreed to pay $217 million to  HealthSouth Corp .
shareholders and bondholders to settle litigation they brought
after an accounting fraud was discovered at the health-care
services provider.  
 The settlements between UBS, Switzerland’s biggest bank,
and the securities holders were entered in the case docket April
22. The shareholders will receive $117 million and the
bondholders $100 million. In addition, Ernst & Young LLP,
HealthSouth’s accounting firm, agreed to pay the bondholders
$33.5 million. It settled with the shareholders last year for
$109 million.  
 The litigation stems from a $2.7 billion fraud at
HealthSouth that led to guilty pleas from 15 executives,
including five former finance chiefs. The fraud unraveled in
March 2003 when federal agents raided the offices of Birmingham,
Alabama-based HealthSouth, the largest U.S. provider of
inpatient rehabilitation services. The discovery caused a drop
in the company’s share price that wiped out almost $6 billion in
market value.  
 “We believe these substantial settlements reflect a great
result for bond purchasers who were damaged as a result of the
massive fraud at HealthSouth,” David Bronner, chief executive
officer of the Retirement Systems of Alabama, the lead
bondholder plaintiff, said in an e-mailed statement.  
 In settling, both Zurich-based UBS, HealthSouth’s
investment bank, and New York-based Ernst & Young denied
wrongdoing. U.S. District Judge Karon Bowdre in Birmingham must
approve the agreements.  
 “UBS continues to deny all charges of wrongdoing or
liability arising out of its engagement for HealthSouth,”
Kristopher Kagel, a spokesman for the company, said in an e-
mailed statement. “As established in multiple proceedings,
HealthSouth’s corrupt insiders repeatedly lied to UBS bankers.
This settlement is fully funded by insurance, except for a less
than 3 percent co-insurance payment by UBS.”  
 The case is In re HealthSouth Securities Litigation,
03cv1500, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Alabama
(Birmingham).  
 For more, click here.  
 Ex-Watchmaker Barouh Gets 10 Months in UBS Tax Case  
 Jack Barouh, a former watchmaker and ex  UBS AG  client, was
sentenced to 10 months in prison, the longest term given any
customer of the bank since the U.S. began a crackdown on
offshore tax evasion.  
 Barouh, 65, admitted in February that he skimmed money from
his company and didn’t report income on $10 million in assets,
including $6 million in offshore accounts at UBS. Barouh’s
lawyer asked for a sentence of a year’s home detention, saying
Barouh is the son of Holocaust survivors who taught him to
“hide and hoard” and compulsively “want to establish a secret
nest egg.” Prosecutors asked April 16 for a 15-month prison
term.  
 U.S. District Judge Adalberto Jordan granted leniency,
saying Barouh cooperated with prosecutors probing offshore tax
evasion and tried to voluntarily disclose his account to the
Internal Revenue Service. Still, the judge said, Barouh deserved
prison for his conduct.  
 “He did this for many years, hiding tens of millions of
dollars,” Jordan said in federal court in Miami.  
 Barouh is among 11 UBS clients who pleaded guilty to tax
crimes since the Zurich-based bank agreed in February 2009 to
pay $780 million to avoid prosecution for helping wealthy
Americans evade taxes. Since then, six other clients have been
sentenced. Four got probation or home detention, one got two
months in prison and another was sentenced to one month.  
 The case is U.S. v. Barouh, 10-cr-20034, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  
 For more, click here.  
 FSA Asks Calvert to Forfeit $1.5 Million in Insider-Trade Case  
   Malcolm Calvert , the former partner at  JPMorgan Chase &
Co .’s Cazenove unit who is serving a 21-month sentence for
insider trading, may have to forfeit about 1 million pounds
($1.5 million), a London court heard April 23.  
 The U.K. financial regulator asked Judge Peter Testar to
rule that Calvert must pay 473,955 pounds for confiscation of
his profits from trades made with inside information, plus
interest; and another 482,908 pounds in costs for his
prosecution. Calvert’s attorney, Hugo Keith, argued the
 Financial Services Authority  calculated the forfeiture amount
incorrectly, and that the agency’s costs were “grotesque.”  
 Calvert, who arrived at court April 23 from Ford Open
Prison in a grey sweater and pants, was convicted last month in
the FSA’s third criminal insider-trading case to reach a jury
trial.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  
 New Suits  
 Lehman Investors Add Auditor Ernst & Young to Suit Over Deals  
   Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc .’s auditor Ernst & Young LLP
was added as a defendant in a lawsuit seeking to recover money
from former executives and underwriters for failing to disclose
Repo 105 transactions.  
 The investor lawsuit, amended to add findings contained in
a 2,200-page report published March 11 by Lehman bankruptcy
examiner Anton Valukus, was filed April 23 on behalf of a group
of retirement funds including the Alameda County Employees’
Retirement Association in Oakland, California, and the
Government of  Guam Retirement Fund .  
 “Throughout our period as the auditor of Lehman, we firmly
believe our work met all applicable professional standards,
applying the rules that existed at the time,” Charlie Perkins,
an Ernst & Young spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  
 The investors, in their original lawsuit filed in June 2008
in federal court in Manhattan, claimed that New York-based
Lehman made false statements about liquidity, failed to take
timely writedowns of its positions on mortgage-backed securities
and overstated their value. Defendants in the case include
former Lehman Chief Executive Officer Richard Fuld.  
 Lehman filed for bankruptcy in September 2008 with $639
billion in assets. It has said it will spend five years
liquidating to pay unsecured creditors as little as 14.7 cents
on the dollar.  
 “Lehman’s bankruptcy was the result of a series of
unprecedented adverse events in the financial markets,” Perkins
said. “It was not caused by any accounting issues.”  
 The case is In re Lehman Brothers Equity/Debt Securities
Litigation, 08-cv-05523, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  
 UralChem Sued for 3.1 Billion Rubles Over Contract  
 United Chemical Co. UralChem, seeking to raise as much as
$642 million in a London initial public offering, is being sued
for 3.1 billion rubles ($106 million) over failing to buy agreed
volumes of raw materials.  
 OAO Apatit filed three suits against UralChem and unit OAO
Voskresensk Mineral Fertilizers in Russian courts over supply
contracts for apatite concentrate in 2008 and 2009, Apatit’s
parent OAO Phosagro said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Moscow Arbitration Court spokesman Dmitry Tafintsev said
the court received a 1.7 billion-ruble lawsuit against UralChem
and its unit and will decide within five days whether to review
the claim. Apatit filed two suits against Voskresensk April 23
with the Moscow Region Arbitration Court, a court spokesman
said, declining to be identified in line with court policy.  
 OAO Silvinit, Russia’s largest potash producer, also said
on its Web site that it filed a case in Moscow against UralChem
and OAO Acron, claiming the two companies colluded on prices.  
 Moscow Arbitration Court registered a case involving the
companies on April 21 and appointed a judge, said an official
who declined to be identified because of court policy.  
 UralChem hasn’t received notification of the lawsuits by
PhosAgro and Silvinit, and will defend its interests, the
company said in an e-mailed statement April 23. Elena Kochubey,
a spokeswoman for Acron in Moscow, said the company couldn’t
respond until it received written notice of a lawsuit.  
 For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  
 Lawsuits/Pretrial  
 AIG May Be on the Hook in Lawsuits Against Goldman Sachs Board  
   American International Group Inc . may be required to pay to
defend lawsuits against  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .’s top
executives, including Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lloyd
Blankfein, under directors’ and officers’ insurance policies
held by the company.  
 AIG, which was rescued from collapse by the U.S.
government, sold so-called Side A directors’ and officers’
coverage to New York-based Goldman Sachs, according to a person
with knowledge of the policy. Goldman Sachs was sued April 16 by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which claimed it
misled investors about collateralized debt obligations tied to
subprime mortgages in 2007.  
 “If it were a derivative suit against Goldman, defense
costs would be covered, and I’d prefer not to be a primary on
the policy,” said John Degnan, vice chairman and chief
operating officer of AIG competitor  Chubb Corp ., while answering
a question about Goldman Sachs on an April 22 earnings call.  
 Goldman Sachs’s board and top management were sued by
investors in two separate cases. The investors, Morton Spiegel
and Robert Rosinek, said in complaints filed April 22 in New
York State Supreme Court in Manhattan that Goldman Sachs
officers and directors breached their duty to the company by
permitting it to enter into a series of collateralized debt
obligations tied to subprime mortgages.  
 One of those CDOs is the subject of a lawsuit against the
New York-based firm by the SEC.  
 According to the derivative complaints, Blankfein and the
other defendants failed to exercise oversight of the deals,
exposing Goldman Sachs to billions of dollars in possible
liability and damage to its reputation.  
 “As a result of the individual defendants’ unlawful course
of conduct and breaches of fiduciary duties, Goldman Sachs has
sustained substantial economic losses, and has had its
reputation in the business community and financial markets
irreparably tarnished,” the investors said in the complaints.  
 Mark Herr, an AIG spokesman, didn’t return a call seeking
comment April 23. On April 20, he declined to comment on the
Goldman Sachs policy. Goldman Sachs spokesman Ed Canaday
declined to comment. The firm has said it will fight the SEC
case.  
 AIG is the lead insurer of the Goldman Sachs board against
shareholder suits, according to a person with knowledge of the
policy. AIG may therefore have to pay the defense costs in the
suit in addition to any verdict or settlement.  
 The cases are Rosinek v. Blankfein, 650318-10, and Spiegel
v. Blankfein, 650319-10, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 Goldman Sachs Director Gupta Said to Be Suspect in Leak  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. director Rajat Gupta is suspected
by U.S. investigators of tipping off a hedge fund billionaire to
a $5 billion investment in the bank by Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc ., a person with direct knowledge of the
inquiry said.  
 Gupta, 61, who has said he won’t stand for re-election to
Goldman Sachs’s board, told Galleon Group founder Raj Rajaratnam
about Buffett’s plan before it was announced in September 2008,
the person said, declining to be identified because the inquiry
isn’t public.  
 Rajaratnam, who was arrested Oct. 16, is fighting criminal
charges and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission civil claims
that he used inside information to trade shares of companies
including Advanced Micro Devices Inc. In a March 22 letter to
Rajaratnam’s lawyers, made public April 9, prosecutors said they
had an interest in his trading in Goldman Sachs stock in 2008.
Three days before the letter was sent, Goldman Sachs announced
Gupta was leaving its board.  
 “Rajat has neither violated any law nor done anything else
improper,” his attorney, Gary Naftalis of Kramer, Levin,
Naftalis & Frankel LLP, said in a statement. “He has always
conducted himself with integrity in his business, philanthropic
and personal life.”  
 Goldman Sachs spokesman Samuel Robinson, SEC spokesman John
Nester and Janice Oh, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara in New York, declined to comment.  
 Gupta hasn’t been formally accused of any wrongdoing.  
 For more, click here.  
 Citigroup Wins Bid to Drop Suit Over Brokers’ Signing Bonuses  
   Citigroup Inc . won dismissal of a lawsuit by six former
brokers who said they shouldn’t have to pay back the balance on
their signing-bonus loans totaling $1.51 million.  
 U.S. District Judge Lewis A. Kaplan in New York granted
Citigroup’s request in a ruling April 23.  
 “Having left the firm without repaying everything they
owed, they brought this baseless lawsuit in what quite plainly
was a studied effort to prevent collection of the debts they
owed through the arbitration process,” Kaplan wrote.  
 Thomas Banus sued Citigroup in New York federal court in
August. An amended complaint in October added five other former
Citigroup brokers, who the bank said received signing bonuses
ranging from Banus’s $45,675 to as much as $801,546. The
plaintiffs sought class-action, or group, status on behalf of at
least 500 brokers employed by Citigroup in the previous six
years who executed promissory notes.  
 They asked the court to rule that they don’t owe the money.
Newly hired brokers are typically given loans, portions of which
are forgiven annually for a number of years. If the broker
leaves before the loan is completely forgiven, the remaining
portion must be paid back with interest.  
 Banus called that requirement “unconscionable” in his
complaint. He said he shouldn’t have to pay all at once the
$39,000 left on his forgivable signing-bonus loan when he quit
in 2006.  
 “We are extremely disappointed with Judge Kaplan’s
decision,” the brokers’ lawyer, Mark Thierman of Reno, Nevada,
said in an e-mail.  
 The case is Banus v. Citigroup Global Markets Inc., 09-cv-
07128, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 BG, Eni Venture Face $2.5 Billion of Kazakh Claims  
 The Kazakh government is demanding at least $2.5 billion
from an oil venture led by  BG Group Plc  and  Eni SpA  after talks
stalled on the state’s entry into the project, said two people
with knowledge of the matter.  
 The Central Asian state slapped the venture,  Karachaganak
Petroleum Operating BV , with tax and environmental claims last
year, and sued for “illegal earnings” this year, after the
producer demanded $1.4 billion in tax rebates, said the people,
who declined to be identified before a settlement.  
 Kazakhstan is aiming to gain more revenue from resource
projects developed under production-sharing agreements, which
allow investors to recoup costs before the government profits.
Karachaganak is the only major Kazakh oil development without
state participation.  
 The dispute mirrors changes at the Kashagan project, the
country’s biggest oil development. In 2008, partners led by Eni
agreed to pay higher royalties and cede shares to state-run
KazMunaiGaz National Co. after the government condemned cost
overruns and delays. The phase that runs from 2002 to 2014 may
cost more than $38 billion.  
 “Investors are getting more and more concerned,” said Ana
Jelenkovic, a London-based analyst at Eurasia Group, a political
risk consulting company. “There’s going to be increasing noise
from international companies but ultimately it’s not that
shocking anymore what the government is doing.”  
 The Karachaganak partners want to understand the basis of
the Kazakh claims and resolve the dispute amicably, said a
person familiar with their plans, who declined to be identified
before the issues are settled.  
 Francesca Ciardiello, a spokeswoman for Karachaganak
Petroleum in Aksai, Kazakhstan, declined to comment on the
figures in an e-mailed response to questions, saying “there are
various issues that are currently under negotiation or
investigation.” BG spokesman Neil Burrows referred questions to
the venture. Eni spokesman Filippo Cotalini declined to
immediately comment.  
 For more, click here.  
 CSR Wins Federal Court Appeal on Sugar Spinoff Plan  
   CSR Ltd ., Australia’s second-largest building products
maker, won court approval to spin off its sugar unit as it
considers a A$1.75 billion ($1.6 billion) offer from China’s
Bright Food Group Co.  
 The appeal judges considered that an “error” was made in
the initial ruling that blocked the spinoff, according to a
decision handed down April 23 by the Full Federal Court in
Sydney.  
 The lower court ruled Feb. 3 that the spinoff and proposed
capital reduction would leave the company with less capital to
meet asbestos-related liabilities. CSR’s mills produce 45
percent of Australia’s raw sugar and account for about 4 percent
of the international trade.  
 “We welcome today’s judgment,” CSR spokesman Martin Cole
said outside the court. “We had appealed on the basis that the
first judgment contained errors in law and we welcome the
clarification in today’s judgment,” he said.  
 CSR said April 1 it would enter talks with Shanghai-based
Bright Food on the offer, which was conditional on regulatory
approvals and closer examination of the sugar division.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  
 Legal Reviews  
 Citic Pacific Seeks Review of Materials Police Seized  
   Citic Pacific Ltd . said it wants an independent counsel
appointed to assess whether Hong Kong police, probing the
biggest currency derivatives loss by a Chinese company, had the
right to seize certain materials.  
 “Citic Pacific believes its legal advice is privileged and
should be returned,” it said in an e-mailed statement April 23.
“Material that is irrelevant to search warrants, and thus
should not have been taken, should also be returned.”  
 Police raided the head office of the Hong Kong-listed
company on April 3, 2009, investigating whether the steelmaker
and property developer had made false statements or conspired to
defraud. Citic Pacific was forced to seek aid from parent Citic
Group, which is backed by China’s Cabinet, and Larry Yung
resigned as chairman.  
 Richard Turnbull, a prosecutor with the Department of
Justice, said April 23 Hong Kong investigators are still
conducting their own determination of which seized materials
might be protected by legal privilege.  
 Citic Pacific said in its statement April 23 that the
principle of privilege, the right to confidential legal advice,
is protected by Hong Kong’s Basic Law, or mini constitution. It
has asked the High Court for directions on how to proceed.  
 The company may be trying to avoid a court battle over what
materials were protected, said Malcolm Kemp, Head of Litigation
at Stephenson Harwood in Hong Kong.  
 “They may be trying to do this as cheaply and efficiently
as possible,” Kemp said.  
 For more, click here.  
 Trials/Appeals  
 Gome Founder’s Bribery, Insider-Trading Trial Ends  
 Huang Guangyu’s Beijing trial ended after a one-day hearing
for the insider-trading and bribery charges against the founder
of Hong Kong-listed  Gome Electrical Appliances Holdings Ltd .  
 “The trial concluded yesterday,” a female court clerk
surnamed He at the  Beijing No. 2 Intermediate People’s Court 
said April 23. The clerk said she didn’t know when the judgment
would be announced.  
 Prosecutors said Huang, once China’s  richest person ,
traded shares of Shenzhen-listed Beijing Centergate Technologies
(Holding) Co. Ltd. worth more than 1.4 billion yuan ($205
million) with inside information and bought $106 million of Hong
Kong currency illegally, according to the official Xinhua News
Agency.  
 Xinhua said Huang’s wife, Du Juan, and Xu Zhongmin, a
business partner of Huang’s, were also charged with insider
trading.  
 “I think the judgment will be announced within a week,”
said Zhao Guohua, a lawyer for Xu. Zhao said the trial lasted
about 12 hours and declined to say how the defendants pleaded.  
 Huang, who had been held by police for 15 months, was also
charged with bribing five government officials with 4.5 million
yuan in cash and property between 2006 and 2008, the Xinhua
report said.  
 Gome’s mainland China subsidiary, Gome Appliances Co., was
also indicted for corporate bribery. The company intends to
fight the charges, it said in a March 1 exchange filing.  
 Karin Wong of Brunswick Group LLC, hired by Gome to handle
public relations, declined to comment in a phone interview April
23.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  
 Court Filings  
 SEC Suit Against Goldman Tops Bloomberg Chart  
 The suit against Goldman Sachs Group Inc. brought by U.S.
regulators for fraud tied to collateralized debt obligations was
the most-read litigation docket on the Bloomberg Law system last
week.  
 Goldman Sachs created and sold CDOs linked to subprime
mortgages in early 2007, as the U.S. housing market faltered,
without disclosing that hedge fund Paulson & Co. helped pick the
underlying securities and bet against the vehicles, the
Securities and Exchange Commission said April 16. Billionaire
John Paulson’s firm earned $1 billion on the trade and wasn’t
accused of wrongdoing. The SEC also sued  Fabrice Tourre , a
Goldman Sachs vice president who helped create the CDOs, known
as Abacus.  
 The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Goldman
Sachs, 10-cv-03229, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        