-- UBS Forecasts Victory for Brazil in 2010 Soccer World Cup in South Africa
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-04-26T16:25:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/ubs-research-predicts-brazil-will-win-soccer-world-cup-in-south-africa.html

          
          
             UBS Wealth Management Research,
which correctly predicted Italy would win the 2006 soccer World
Cup, says Brazil will triumph this year in South Africa.  
 “Our forecast is based on in-depth quantitative analysis
that places great emphasis on a country’s previous performance
at World Cup tournaments,” the UBS unit said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 Five-time World Cup champion Brazil is the second favorite
to win at 5-1 at William Hill Plc, a U.K. bookmaker with more
than 2,300 betting shops. That means a successful 1 pound bet
would return 5 pounds plus the original stake. Brazil last won
the World Cup in 2002. Spain, which has never won, is the
favorite at 4-1, with 1966 champion England in third at 11-2 and
two-time winner Argentina in fourth at 7-1.  
 Only seven countries have ever won the World Cup, out of 18
tournaments, while just six countries have been represented in
the last 10 finals, the bank said. The World Cup starts June 11
and ends a month later.  
 “Germany and defending champions Italy, as multiple world
champions, are the two teams alongside record-holders Brazil
that are most likely to win the tournament,” UBS said. Italy
has won the event four times and Germany is a three-time winner.  
 UBS Chief Economist Andreas Hoefert, who created the model
and also correctly predicted six of the eight World Cup quarter-
finalists in 2006, said forecasts have to be treated with
caution.  
 “Successful predictions owe at least as much to luck as to
expert knowledge,” he said.  
 Past Performance  
 The importance of past performance is also the reason why
UBS is forecasting bookmakers’ favorite Spain may leave the
tournament before the semifinals. Host nation South Africa is
unlikely to make it out of the round of 16, UBS said.  
 The Daily Telegraph said a German university professor
developed a mathematical formula which, he claims, shows Germany
will win. Metin Tolan, a physics professor at the University of
Dortmund, has written a formula based on trigonometry that
analyses all Germany’s results from previous World Cups and
predicts a winner for this year’s tournament, the newspaper said
April 21.  
 Germany, which has an average finishing place of 3.7, is
due, Tolan said, after winning in 1954, 1974 and 1990. He also
picked Germany in the last tournament, when the team finished
third. Italy beat France on penalties in the final.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk at 
3628 or  drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        