-- Lufthansa First-Class Revamp Seeks to Out-Ritz Rivals
-- Cornelius Rahn
-- 2010-04-27T14:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/lufthansa-seeks-to-out-ritz-british-airways-with-first-class-cabin-revamp.html

          
          
             Deutsche Lufthansa AG will seek to
out-Ritz British Airways Plc by evoking London hotel luxury in a
makeover of its first-class cabins.  
 The revamp, to be unveiled when the German carrier gets its
first A380 superjumbo on May 19, features high-gloss wood
veneers and brown and beige leather, said Michael Oakey of Heath
Tecna Inc., which is supplying seat components. The in-flight
service will include wines chosen in tastings by frequent
flyers, airline spokesman Jan Baerwalde said.  
 Lufthansa is overhauling its costliest cabins for the first
time in 12 years after British Airways Plc two months ago showed
off a 100 million-pound ($153 million) refit featuring leather
desks and Egyptian-cotton duvets. Both airlines are forecasting
a rebound in demand for premium travel as economies pick up.  
 “This is a real bet for Lufthansa, because the trend is
more toward cutting first class, and I’m not sure that we’ll see
the number of premium travelers we had back in 2007,” said Yan
Derocles, an analyst at Oddo Securities in Paris who rates
Lufthansa shares “add” and British Airways “reduce.”  
 A first-class return ticket between Lufthansa’s Frankfurt
hub and New York starts at 7,999 euros ($10,700), while those
flying to Singapore have to spend at least 9,559 euros. Profit
margins from first-class tickets can reach 90 percent, while 
economy class is barely profitable, said Per-Ola Hellgren, an
analyst at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Mainz, Germany.  
 Luxury-Car Look  
 Cologne, Germany-based Lufthansa’s new cabins will be
contemporary rather than colorful and futuristic, calling to
mind private-jet interiors and luxury cars, according to Oakey,
head of business development at Heath Tecna’s U.K. unit in
Camberley, near London, which is supplying bespoke finishes and
components for the flat-bed seats.  
 The colors, materials and shapes used are also intended to
create a smooth transition from Lufthansa’s first-class lounges
to the aircraft, Baerwalde said. The airline already offers
dedicated first-class terminals, where passengers picked up from
their doorsteps by limousine are greeted in a hotel-style
welcome area and kept separate from non-premium travelers.  
 “From the lounge to the plane, you’re meant to feel like
you’re in a luxury hotel,” Baerwalde said.  
 Lufthansa won’t say how much it’s spending on the makeover.
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg’s Hellgren estimates the project
will cost about 150 million euros ($200 million). The carrier
said it has budgeted 1 billion euros over five years for
improving all of its cabins, with wider seat spacing on regional
flights, a new entertainment program and broadband Internet
access on long-distance routes.  
 Catching Qatar  
 The redesign, to be rolled out on more than 80 long-haul
routes over the next three years, will help close the gap to
Asian and Middle Eastern airlines such as Qatar Airways Ltd.  
 Qatar Airways, whose premier cabins offer a stand-up bar,
cream leather sofas and teak tables with lampshades, is
eliminating first-class cabins in some of the planes scheduled
for delivery after a drop in demand for top-end travel, Chief
Executive Officer Akbar al-Baker said March 10.  
 While premium travel, including business class, is up 10
percent from mid-2009 lows, it hasn’t yet recovered to early
2008 levels, the International Air Transport Association said
April 15.  
 London-based British Airways, which pioneered lie-flat
seats in 1996, introduced its first premium revamp in almost 10
years in February. The makeover took inspiration from luxury
U.K. carmakers, using designers who had created leather-rich
interiors for Jaguar and Aston Martin, the company said.  
 Black Halibut, Caviar  
 For the months of May and June, Lufthansa passengers will
be offered menus including black halibut with an olive-brittle
crust, served with an orange and pepper sauce, and saddle of
veal with cocoa, rhubarb and shallot compote and potato gnocchi.  
 Also on offer is north Italian caviar, of which the airline
consumes seven tons a year, making it the biggest single buyer.  
 On the dessert menu is a chilled soup prepared with the
herb woodruff and Italian sparkling wine that’s served with
white-chocolate mousse and fresh berries, or strawberry and
coconut tart with passion-fruit coulis.  
 The dishes have been devised by Holger Stromberg, who
usually cooks for Germany’s national soccer team.  
 Past menus have also been designed by renowned chefs, of
whom 60 have cooked for the carrier in the past decade,
including French veteran Paul Bocuse, whose eponymous restaurant
near Lyon has held three Michelin stars for more than 40 years,
and Daniel Boulud, whose New York establishments include Daniel
and DB Bistro Moderne and whose dining empire stretches from
Vancouver to Beijing.  
 Wine Offering  
 Lufthansa’s new wine selections include Rully Premier Cru
from the vineyards of Antonin Rodet in Burgundy, France.  
 “Everybody is offering a wide variety of champagnes and
wines -- they have to differentiate themselves,” said Michael
Laznicka, CEO of Rapid Pharmaceuticals AG, who makes as many as
16 roundtrips in the carrier’s first class a year. “Lufthansa
is already doing a phenomenal job with its ground lounges and
limousines. Now that has to happen in the air as well.”  
 Lufthansa won’t offer on-board shower cabins because
passengers end up competing to use them, and will instead
continue with the 26 existing cabins on the ground. It will also
avoid fully enclosed suites of the kind favored by Singapore
Airlines Ltd. and Gulf carrier Emirates.  
 Along with Qatar Airways, Skytrax ranks Singapore Airlines,
Cathay Pacific, Malaysia Airlines, India’s Kingfisher Airlines
and Asiana Airlines of South Korea as “five-star carriers.”  
 The second level of 28 airlines includes Lufthansa,
together with British Airways and European competitors Air
France and Virgin Atlantic. U.S. carriers American Airlines,
Delta Air Lines and United Airlines are in a group of more than
120 companies with three stars.  
 “What airlines will probably try to do in the future is to
use their premium space more efficiently,” Hellgren said.
“That means squeezing more customers who would rather pay a bit
less for a first-class ticket into the same space.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An employee ads decals to the first Lufthansa Airbus A380 airplane in this undated handout image, released to the media on April 24, 2010. Source: Lufthansa via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A flight attendant assists a customer in a Deutsche Lufthansa AG airplane's first-class compartment in this undated handout image, released to the media on Monday, April 24, 2010. Source: Lufthansa via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A customer flies in a Deutsche Lufthansa AG airplane's first-class compartment in this undated handout image, released to the media on April 24, 2010. Source: Lufthansa via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Deutsche Lufthansa AG logo is seen during a news conference in Frankfurt, on March 11, 2010. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
