-- Ukraine Plans to Borrow $4.3 Billion Abroad in Donor Support, Eurobonds
-- Kateryna Choursina
-- 2010-04-26T14:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/ukraine-plans-to-borrow-4-3-billion-abroad-in-donor-support-eurobonds.html

          
          
             Ukraine’s government plans to cover
the state budget deficit this year by borrowing $4.3 billion
abroad, including money from international donors and the sale
of Eurobonds.  
 The government of Prime Minister Mykola Azarov wants to
borrow $2 billion from the International Monetary Fund and $500
million from the World Bank, according to a budget draft posted
on the parliament’s Web site today. Ukraine wants to sell $1.3
billion in Eurobonds, the statement showed.  
 The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and
the European Investment Bank will provide a further $458.5
million to finance development projects that include road works,
it said. The government will try to raise $8.27 billion in
domestic bond sales, according to the statement. The government
will use almost $6 billion of the total to finance the state
budget, including $3.7 billion for bank recapitalization, while
$2.3 billion will be injected into the stabilization fund,
according to the draft budget.  
 Ukraine’s budget deficit is central to the country’s
efforts to continue its program with the IMF. The Washington
D.C-based IMF has said Ukraine’s shortfall must be no wider than
6 percent of gross domestic product this year for the loan to
continue. The former Soviet state seeks a $20 billion IMF loan
running over 2 1/2 years, Deputy Prime Minister Serhiy Tigipko
said on April 23. The IMF has yet to confirm the agreement.  
 Budget Deficit  
 Ukraine’s government sees the budget deficit at 57.7
billion hryvnia ($7.27 billion), or 5.3 percent of gross
domestic product for 2010, according to the draft budget. The
deficit excludes bank recapitalization and payments to state-
energy company NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy, Finance Minister Fedir
Yaroshenko said last week.  
 Ukraine may sell dollar-denominated Eurobonds in mid-June,
Deputy Finance Minister Andriy Kravets said on April 23. It will
be the first sale since 2007, when the government sold five-year
$500 million notes with at an interest rate of 6.385 percent.
The government wants a yield below 8 percent, Kravets said.  
 The government also wants 10.263 billion hryvnia from the
sale of state assets and 10 billion hryvnia of central bank
income for the budget, the draft budget shows.  
 The government may issue more domestic bonds to raise 5
billion hryvnia for the Agrarian Fund to give loans to farmers
and repay value-added tax reimbursements to exporters, according
to the document. Tigipko said on April 15 the government may
sell as much as 20 billion hryvnia of such bonds.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        