-- Hungary's Next Premier Orban Faces Test From IMF in Return to Government
-- Zoltan Simon
-- 2010-04-26T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/hungary-s-next-prime-minister-orban-faces-imf-test-in-return-to-government.html

          
          
             Viktor Orban, whose Fidesz party
won a government mandate strong enough to change the Hungarian
constitution, faces the first test of his power when he attempts
to broker a new deal with international creditors.  
 Orban, whose party scored an unprecedented two-thirds
majority in the election concluded on April 25, wants to widen
his Cabinet’s room to jumpstart growth after the worst recession
in 18 years. The International Monetary Fund and the European
Union, which extended the bulk of the $27 billion bailout,
required Hungary to keep its budget deficit under control.  
 Hungary in 2008 obtained an international bailout, when
capital flows dried up, pushing the country to the brink of
default. The loan conditions exacerbated the country’s economic
decline, cutting output by 6.3 percent last year. Orban,
returning to power after eight years, said yesterday he will
seek a new agreement with the lenders.  
 “I don’t think getting a new and looser agreement is a
given,” Gyorgy Majoros, a portfolio manager at the Budapest unit
of KBC Groep NV, which oversees $3.7 billion in assets. “The
IMF’s track record doesn’t indicate that it would be open
loosening fiscal policy.”  
 Fidesz won 263 seats in the 386-strong parliament. The
Socialist Party, ousted after eight years in power, won 59
seats, the radical nationalist Jobbik party gained 47 and Lehet
Mas a Politika, a green group, got 16. One independent candidate
won a seat.  
 Forint Gains  
 The forint has gained 19 percent against the euro since
hitting its weakest level in March 2009, the second-best
performer among the 25 emerging-European currencies tracked by
Bloomberg after the Polish zloty. The cost to protect against a
Hungarian default fell to the lowest since October 2008 and the
benchmark BUX Index more than doubled over the past year,
suggesting rising confidence in an economic recovery.  
 The next Cabinet wants to renegotiate and extend Hungary’s
emergency loan agreement with the IMF, EU and the World Bank,
which expires in October. The aim is to win permission to raise
the budget deficit target for this year to between 4.5 percent
and 6.5 percent of GDP, former Economy Minister Gyorgy Matolcsy
told Hir TV last month.  
 ‘Not Our Bosses’  
 “I don’t think the IMF and the EU’s financial institutions
are our bosses,” Orban said yesterday. “I’m convinced that we
can agree with the IMF on the content of such a mid-year
package.”  
 Fidesz plans to focus on jumpstarting growth instead of
meeting an IMF-dictated budget deficit goal of 3.8 percent of
GDP for this year. The commission estimates this year’s
shortfall at 4.2 percent of GDP. Orban has accused the socialist
government of lying about the size of the gap.  
 “That number belongs in the past,” Orban told reporters
yesterday in reference to this year’s 3.8 percent target. The
new government will review the budget before proposing a multi-
year plan to reduce the debt level, which is the highest among
the EU’s eastern members, he said.  
 Fidesz pledged to use its unprecedented mandate to halve
the number of representatives in parliament and local councils
and create private jobs to lead the economy out of a recession
after GDP shrank 6.3 percent last year, the most since 1991. The
IMF expects output to continue shrinking this year.  
 The next cabinet will have “little room for policy
slippage” as it tries to jumpstart growth without jeopardizing
financial stability, Fitch Ratings said yesterday.  
 “A permanent loosening of fiscal policy that fails to
stabilize the general government debt burden and set it on a
downward path over the next couple of years will increase
negative pressure on Hungary’s sovereign ratings,” Fitch said.  
 Debt Climbs  
 Hungary, once a frontrunner in the transition to a free-
market economy from communism, lost its edge as successive
governments racked up debt to fund higher spending. The European
Commission estimates government debt will reach 80 percent of
gross domestic product this year, the highest among the EU’s
eastern members, while employment is the bloc’s second-lowest
after Malta.  
 The nation is undergoing its fifth year of austerity to
narrow a deficit that was the European Union’s widest at 9.3
percent of economic output in 2006 and was 4 percent of gross
domestic product last year.  
 Fidesz, which governed with Orban as premier from 1998 to
2002, gained support as voters punished a Socialist-led
government that raised taxes and cut spending.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        