-- Hungary Cuts Key Rate for Tenth Month on Day Following Fidesz's Victory
-- Edith Balazs
-- 2010-04-26T14:34:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/hungary-cuts-key-rate-for-tenth-month-on-day-following-fidesz-s-victory.html

          
          
             Hungary’s central bank cut the
benchmark interest rate for the 10th consecutive month today and
said it doesn’t rule out market intervention if the forint
continues to strengthen.  
 The Magyar Nemzeti Bank reduced the two-week deposit rate
to 5.25 percent from 5.5 percent, the lowest since communism
ended 20 years ago. The decision matched the forecast of 13 of
16 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The central bank doesn’t
rule out intervention, with interest rate-policy remaining its
primary tool, MNB President Andras Simor said.  
 “There is no reason whatsoever that justifies a stricter
monetary policy,” Simor said. “A strengthening forint obviously
tightens monetary policy.”  
 Policy makers have lowered the key rate by 4.25 percentage
points since July as a 6.3 percent economic contraction last
year blunted price pressures. The outlook for growth and
inflation justify further reductions, policy makers said.
Further cuts hinge on the country’s risk assessment, Simor said.  
 Central bankers also considered lowering the benchmark rate
to 5 percent before deciding on the quarter-point reduction with
a “decisive majority,” he said.  
 The forint strengthened as much as 0.5 percent to 262.08
per euro today and traded at 263.38 per at 3:55 p.m. in
Budapest, compared with 263.41 late on April 23. The currency
has gained 3 percent against the euro in the past three months.
The currency hit a record-low 317.22 on March 6, 2009.  
 ‘Damp Forint Strengthening’  
 Simor’s “comment is likely to damp any considerable forint
strengthening going forward,” Nordea AB economists said in an e-
mailed note today.  
 The country’s five-year credit-default swap, which measures
the cost of protecting against a default, fell to 167.405 on
April 14, the lowest since Oct. 1, 2008, before climbing to
185.125 on April 23 as Greece’s fiscal crisis deteriorated,
sparking concern about potential contagion.  
 Hungary’s rate cut came a day after the Fidesz party, which
criticized the bank for easing policy too slowly, secured a two-
thirds majority in parliament in yesterday’s runoff vote, the
first since the transition to democracy.  
 That gives Viktor Orban, the party’s chairman and the next
prime minister, the power to change the constitution to reduce
the state administration and improve efficiency to make room for
tax cuts. The mandate also extends to potential changes in the
central bank law.  
 ‘Offshore Knights’  
 Orban said it was “dubious” whether the central bank and
the financial regulator have performed adequately recently. The
Magyar Nemzeti Bank “shouldn’t be the residence of offshore
knights,” Orban, said at a press conference.  
 His party last year called on Simor to resign because he
kept part of his savings in a Cyprus-based company at a time
when the government was cracking down on tax evasion.  
 Simor today said the central bank will support the next
cabinet with all available tools as long as it doesn’t threaten
the inflation target. He refused to comment on Orban’s remarks.  
 Orban’s ascent may create “tension” with monetary policy
makers, according to HSBC Holdings Plc. Fidesz on Jan. 25 called
the central bank “incompetent” for being slow in cutting
interest rates.  
 “Undesired noise or tension may occur in the aftermath of
elections on the monetary-policy front,” Kubilay Ozturk, a
London-based HSBC analyst, said in an e-mail before elections.  
 IMF Bailout  
 Hungary, the first European Union member to obtain an
International Monetary Fund-led bailout in the credit crisis,
was slower the U.S. Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank,
and the Czech and Polish central banks to cut rates because of
currency losses.  
 Orban has said the deficit this year may be double the
government’s target of 3.8 percent of gross domestic product
because of “fictitious” budget data and losses at state-owned
companies. The IMF and the EU say the target is “achievable.”  
 Orban plans to renegotiate Hungary’s agreement with the IMF
and the EU, which expires in October. He has also pledged to
narrow the deficit once growth is restored.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net .
Edith Balazs at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A file photo shows Hungarian National Bank in Budapest, Hungary. Photographer: Balint Porneczi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
