-- Hungary May Cut Benchmark Rate for 10th Time After Fidesz Election Victory
-- Zoltan Simon
-- 2010-04-26T10:54:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/hungary-may-cut-benchmark-rate-for-10th-time-after-fidesz-election-victory.html

          
          
             Hungary’s central bank will
probably cut the benchmark interest rate for the 10th month in a
row today, hours after the party that has criticized the bank
for easing policy too slowly scored a landslide election win.  
 The Magyar Nemzeti Bank will reduce the two-week deposit
rate to 5.25 percent from 5.5 percent, the lowest since
communism fell 20 years ago, according to 14 of 17 economists in
a Bloomberg survey. Three predict no change. The decision will
be announced at 2 p.m. in Budapest.  
 “The bank remains firmly in easing mode,” Pasquale Diana
and Chuan Lim, London-based economists at Morgan Stanley, said
in a note after meeting central bankers in Budapest this month.  
 Policy makers, criticized by the Fidesz party for not
reducing borrowing costs faster, have cut the key rate by 4
percentage points since July as a 6.3 percent economic
contraction last year blunted price pressures. The outlook for
growth and inflation would justify further reductions, policy
makers said this month.  
 Fidesz leader Viktor Orban said it was “dubious” whether
the central bank and the financial regulator have performed
adequately recently. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank “shouldn’t be the
residence of off-shore knights,” Orban, the premier-in-waiting,
said at a press conference today.  
 His party last year called on central bank President Andras
Simor to resign because he kept part of his savings in a Cyprus-
based company at a time when the government was cracking down on
tax evasion.  
 Forint, CDS  
 The forint gained 3.3 percent against the euro in the past
three months and traded at 263.60 at 12:45 p.m. in Budapest. The
currency hit a record-low 317.22 on March 6 last year. The
country’s five-year credit-default swap, which measures the cost
of protecting against a default, fell to 176.195 on April 21
from 186.215 on March 22.  
 Fidesz, which won the election on promises to cut taxes and
jumpstart growth, secured a two-thirds constitutional majority
in parliament in yesterday’s runoff vote, the first for a party
since the transition to democracy in 1990.  
 That gives Viktor Orban, Fidesz’s chairman and the next
prime minister, the power to reduce state administration and
improve efficiency to make room for tax cuts. The mandate also
extends to potential changes in the central bank law.  
 ‘Tension’ With Policy Makers  
 Orban’s ascent may create “tension” with monetary policy
makers, according to HSBC Holdings Plc. Fidesz on Jan. 25 called
the central bank “incompetent” for being slow in cutting rates
and last year urged MNB President Andras Simor to quit because
he had kept part of his savings in a Cyprus-based company at a
time when the government sought to crack down on tax evasion.  
 “Undesired noise or tension may occur in the aftermath of
elections on the monetary policy front,” Kubilay Ozturk, a
London-based HSBC analyst, said in an e-mail before elections.  
 Hungary, the first European Union member to obtain an
International Monetary Fund-led bailout in the credit crisis,
was slower the U.S. Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank,
and the Czech and Polish central banks to cut rates because of
currency losses.  
 Central banks in the region are putting off rate increases
as currencies appreciate and inflation is kept in check. The
Czech central bank last month held the key rate at a record-low
1 percent, on par with the ECB’s main rate, and considered
lowering it further. Poland’s central bank held its rate at an
all-time low 3.5 percent on March 31 and sold zlotys this month
to stem currency gains.  
 Scope for Cuts  
 The scope for rate cuts in Hungary hinges on Orban’s fiscal
policies as the next premier, according to Gyorgy Barta, an
economist at the Budapest-based unit of Intesa Sanpaolo SpA.  
 Fidesz has yet to reveal the size of tax cuts, spending
cuts if any, or the budget deficit the next government will run.
Tax cuts and economic growth are a precondition of fiscal
consolidation, Orban said on April 12. On April 21, Magyar
Nemzet reported that Fidesz Deputy Chairman Laszlo Kover said
the next government won’t be able to cut taxes in 2010.  
 Orban has said the deficit this year may be double the
government’s target of 3.8 percent of gross domestic product
because of “fictitious” budget data and losses at state-owned
companies. The IMF and EU say the target is “achievable.”  
 Renegotiate IMF  
 Orban plans to renegotiate Hungary’s agreement with the IMF
and EU, which expires in October. He has also pledged to narrow
the deficit once growth is restored. He offered few policy
details besides a pledge to reduce the size of parliament and
local councils by half if Fidesz wins a supermajority.  
 “The room for monetary policy maneuver will be contingent
upon sound fiscal policies,” Barta said in an e-mailed note.
“Rigorous state finances would allow for looser monetary
policy, without threatening forint stability.”  
 Hungarian policy makers voted 4-3 last month for a rate cut
to 5.5 percent, with the minority backing a cut to 5.25 percent.
The IMF predicts the economy will contract 0.2 percent this year
before a return to growth in 2011.  
 The central bank expects the inflation rate to fall below
its 3 percent target by the second half, erasing an increase in
the first months of 2010 caused by rising fuel and food costs.
The rate rose to 5.9 percent in March from 5.7 percent in
February.  
 “It was desirable to continue reducing interest rates,”
the central bank said in the minutes of last month’s meeting.
“Firm conclusions could not be drawn about the likely end of
the current interest rate-cut cycle.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        