-- Turkish Central Bank Increases Banks' Foreign Currency Reserve Requirement
-- Ali Berat Meric
-- 2010-04-26T06:20:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/turkish-central-bank-increases-foreign-currency-reserve-requirement.html

          
          
             Turkey’s central bank increased the
proportion of foreign currency reserves banks must deposit to
cover loan risk in the first step of a plan to withdraw the
liquidity it injected during the global financial crisis.  
 The bank in Ankara raised the requirement to 9.5 percent of
foreign currency loans from 9 percent, according to a directive
published in the Official Gazette today.  
 The decision is the first move the bank has taken since
April 14 when it announced plans to “gradually” withdraw the
steps it took to boost market liquidity during the crisis.
Today’s increase is likely to pull about $600 million in foreign
currency liquidity from the banking system, Inan Demir, chief
economist at Finansbank AS in Istanbul, said in a report to
investors.  
 “The central bank made it amply clear that reversal of
liquidity measures will precede rate hikes and the gradual
nature of steps taken suggests that the bank will take its time
in resorting to hikes,” Demir said. “We maintain our rate call
that sees 200 basis points of tightening in the second half of
2010.”  
 The increase of half a percentage point begins the reversal
of a reduction in the requirement to 9 percent from 11 percent
made on Dec. 5, 2008. During the crisis the bank also lowered
Turkish lira reserve requirements, extended the term of repo
auctions to three months and acted as a broker to allow banks to
borrow and lend foreign currency.  
 No Timetable  
 The central bank hasn’t given a timetable for how it will
reverse those steps because “things are changing very rapidly
so it’s risky and wrong to set the timing in advance,” Governor
Durmus Yilmaz said in an interview with Bloomberg HT television
in Washington. “We’ll try to do it with as few surprises as
possible, clearly, understandably, transparently and by giving
the banks time to adjust their balance sheets.”  
 Yilmaz ended a 13-month series of rate cuts in December
that slashed the benchmark by a total of 10.25 percentage
points. The rate is the lowest since the bank started setting it
in 2001. He has kept the rate at 6.5 percent for five months.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        