-- Venezuela's Economy May Contract in 2010 on Auto Import Drop, Chavez Says
-- Jose Orozco
-- 2010-04-26T05:28:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/venezuela-s-economy-may-contract-in-2010-on-auto-import-drop-chavez-says.html

          
          
             President Hugo Chavez said that
while Venezuela’s economy may shrink for a second year it isn’t
cause for concern since the global slump favors his
implementation of socialism.  
 Gross domestic product may have shrunk in the first quarter,
Chavez said at a congress for his United Socialist Party
broadcast on state television last night. The economy fell into
its first recession since 2003 last year, shrinking 3.3 percent.  
 “Is that reason to worry? Not at all,” Chavez said. “One
of the reasons for the fall in gross domestic product in 2009
and now the first quarter of 2010, according to preliminary data,
is the fall in car imports. What does that have to do with
socialism?”  
 The International Monetary Fund last week said Venezuela
will contract 2.6 percent this year, the only major Latin
American economy to shrink, in part because of power shortages.
Chavez devalued the bolivar by as much as 50 percent on Jan. 8
in an effort to narrow the country’s budget deficit, which is
projected to be 3.2 percent of GDP, according to Morgan Stanley.  
 Royal Bank of Scotland Plc lowered its forecast for
Venezuela’s economy this year to a 3 percent contraction as
electricity shortages crimp production and restricted dollar
sales curb imports, RBS analyst Boris Segura said March 25. The
foreign exchange administration commission, known as Cadivi, has
failed to allot sufficient dollars to importers to boost
production, he said.  
 Regulated, Unregulated Currency  
 Companies must seek approval from the government to buy
dollars at the official rates, now 2.6 and 4.3 per dollar
depending on the use of the money. When they don’t receive
approval, companies turn to the unregulated currency market
where the bolivar traded at 7.30 on April 23 after reaching a
record low of 7.32 a day earlier.  
 Venezuela depends on hydroelectric power for more than two-
thirds of its energy needs, exposing the country to output
slumps during prolonged droughts. The government plans to spend
about $6 billion this year to install 5,700 megawatts of new
electricity generation, including 880-megawatt turbines from
Fairfield, Connecticut-based General Electric Co.  
 The country received 29 percent less oil income that it
estimated for the first quarter, even after the price it charged
for crude almost doubled, the National Treasury said on April 20.  
 Oil income in the first three months of the year fell 3.3
percent from the year-earlier period to 7.1 billion bolivars
($1.65 billion), less than the 10.1 billion bolivars the
government estimated for the period in this year’s budget, the
Treasury reported. The average price for oil sold by Venezuela
rose to $71.50 per barrel in the quarter from $38.40 a year
earlier, the Oil Ministry said.  
 Chavez yesterday threatened to nationalize gold mining
concessions, saying “capitalist mafias” comprising national
and multinational companies that destroy the environment and
exploit workers.  
 “If we are going to exploit gold, we would have to
nationalize all that, recover and end the concessions,” he said.  
 Chavez has previously taken control of foreign oil, utility
and metals companies in the country.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        