-- Verizon Doesn't Plan to Distribute Google's Nexus Phone
-- Amy Thomson
-- 2010-04-26T20:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/verizon-says-it-has-no-current-plans-to-distribute-google-nexus-one-phone.html

          
          
             Verizon Wireless, the largest U.S.
mobile-phone company, retreated from plans to offer service for
Google Inc.’s Nexus One phone, saying it will focus on other
Android-powered handsets instead.  
 Until this morning, Google’s Web site showed that the Nexus
One would be available through Verizon in spring of 2010. The
site now points Verizon users seeking phones that run Google’s
Android operating system to HTC Corp.’s Incredible model.  
 Without a Verizon partnership, Google loses access to the
carrier’s more than 90 million customers, potentially blocking
the phone from gaining more widespread popularity and hurting
its competition with Apple Inc.’s iPhone. The breakdown of the
deal signals Verizon may view Google as a competitor rather than
a partner when it comes to Nexus One sales, said analyst Colin
Gillis at BGC Partners LP in New York.  
 “It’s really a flop for Google,” said Gillis, who advises
investors to hold Google shares and doesn’t own any. “They paid
a price to roll out their own branded phone -- it’s a price of
trust and relationship with some of the other players in the
space.”  
 Carriers aren’t allowed to sell the phone in their stores,
forcing customers to buy the device on Google’s Web site. AT&T
Inc. didn’t endorse a version of the phone for its network
technology, which is now being sold without a contract on the
Google site. Verizon probably sold less than half a million
Nexus Ones since the phone’s January debut, Gillis said.  
 ‘We’re Open’  
 Google decided against selling the Nexus One with Verizon
because of “amazing innovation happening across the open Android
ecosystem,” spokesman Anthony House said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 Verizon Wireless, based in Basking Ridge, New Jersey, has
no current plans to sell service for the Nexus One phone,
spokesman Marquett Smith said. “If they want to do business with
us or sell the device, we’re open to that.”  
 The loss is a blow to Google’s attempt to establish itself
as it struggles against the iPhone, which is exclusively carried
in the U.S. by AT&T, said James Dailey, a portfolio manager at
Team Financial Asset Management LLC in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.  
 The iPhone’s software was shipped in 24.9 million phones
worldwide last year, making up 14.4 percent of the market,
according to Gartner Inc. research. The Android operating system
made up 3.9 percent of sales.  
 Relationship With Verizon  
 “It’s strictly been this Verizon relationship that’s
allowed them to get a market-share footprint in the U.S.,” said
Dailey, whose fund manages $145 million, including shares of
AT&T and Verizon. If the iPhone “comes out on the Verizon
platform, I wouldn’t be thrilled about Google’s future, at least
in the short-to-intermediate term.”  
 Verizon Communications Inc., which co-owns Verizon with
Vodafone Group Plc, fell 11 cents to $28.94 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. Google, based in Mountain
View, California, dropped $13.35 to $531.64 on the Nasdaq Stock
Market.  
 Verizon has broadened its smartphone line as it vies with
rivals like AT&T and Sprint Nextel Corp. for a shrinking pool of
new customers, with more than 9 phones for every 10 people in
the U.S.  
 Carriers have turned to smartphones as more consumers seek
devices that can function as pocket computers, surfing the Web
and playing video. Smartphone sales probably will climb 46
percent this year, more than triple the pace of the overall
handset market, according to Gartner.  
 Android Significance  
 While Google’s Nexus One may not be a hit, the company’s
Android operating system will help anchor the carrier in mobile,
Gillis said.  
 “Beyond any single phone, the real point is that Android
itself as a platform is significant,” said Gillis. “We’re going
to see it on more devices beyond phones, whether it’s netbooks
or laptops.”  
 T-Mobile USA Inc. already carries the phone, while Sprint,
the third-largest mobile carrier, has said it will debut the
device as well. Vodafone said today it will sell the device to
customers in the U.K. on April 30.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 21 (Bloomberg) -- David Garrity, principal at GVA Research LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton and Erik Schatzker about the outlook for Apple Inc.'s performance and share price.
     Garrity also discusses prospects for the introduction of an iPhone that will run on the CDMA network used by Verizon Communications Inc. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
