-- Vietnam Inflation, While Slowing, Still Likely to Pass 10%, Citigroup Says
-- Jason Folkmanis
-- 2010-04-26T08:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/vietnam-inflation-while-slowing-still-likely-to-pass-10-citigroup-says.html

          
          
             Vietnam’s inflation rate will still
probably surpass 10 percent and rise to almost 11 percent this
year in spite of a slowdown reported in the latest figures,
Citigroup Inc. said.  
 Vietnamese inflation slowed in April to a year-on-year rate
of 9.2 percent, down from 9.5 percent in March and the first
reduction in the rate since August. Prices rose 0.14 percent in
April from March, the lowest figure since a decline in monthly
inflation in March 2009.  
 Moody’s Investors Service said last month that Vietnam had
yet to quell inflationary expectations, and Fitch Ratings cited
the risk of a further build-up in price pressures when it put
the country’s debt rating on negative watch.  
 “Given that the deceleration is largely driven by food
prices, which can be very volatile, we would be wary of
extrapolating benign inflation trends this year,” wrote Johanna
Chua, the Hong Kong-based head of Asian economic research at
Citigroup.  
 Overall food prices rose 9.56 percent in April from a year
earlier, slower than March’s 10.73 percent, according to the
General Statistics Office in Hanoi. From a month earlier, food
prices dropped 0.63 percent, with the sub-category including
rice sliding 1.91 percent.  
 “We still expect headline inflation will hit double-digits
in the coming months, peaking close to 11 percent,” Chua wrote.  
 Credit Policies  
 Credit policies in Vietnam have become more restrictive
since last year, she wrote. Credit expanded 38 percent last year
in Vietnam, and the central bank has said it’s targeting a 25
percent figure this year and that lending in the first quarter
grew 3 percent.  
 Still the central bank shouldn’t take the recent inflation
figures as a signal to loosen monetary policy, Chua said.  
 Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung last week asked
state-owned banks to cut their lending rates, according to Thoi
Bao Ngan Hang newspaper.  
 “We don’t think this recent figure is a clear trend,”
Chua wrote. “One risk is that a temporary turn in inflation
could lead the State Bank of Vietnam to reverse or delay much
needed monetary tightening.”  
 A removal of a past link between a central bank benchmark
and maximum lending rates at commercial banks caused some
borrowing rates to surge to 18 percent, HSBC Holdings Plc said
on April 23.  
 “More recently, rates have started to stabilize at around
14 percent,” wrote Wellian Wiranto, a Singapore-based economist
at HSBC. “The central bank must be thankful for the space that
seasonally low food prices has offered them.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        