-- Visteon Managers to Split Up to $237 Million in Stock Under Reorganization
-- Steven Church
-- 2010-04-26T17:17:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/visteon-managers-to-split-up-to-237-million-in-stock-under-reorganization.html

          
          
             Visteon Corp. managers will split
as much as $237 million in stock under a reorganization proposal
they are advocating, shareholders of the bankrupt auto-parts
maker said in court papers.  
 The proposed incentive plan means managers are
“unquestionably self-interested,” in a reorganization that
leaves nothing for shareholders, Aurelius Capital Master Ltd.
and two related investors said in court papers filed April 23 in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware.  
 Shareholders asked the judge overseeing Visteon’s
bankruptcy case to reject a proposed reorganization agreement
between the company and its lenders partly because of the
management incentive plan.  
 Visteon has proposed cutting its debt and exiting
bankruptcy by giving lenders 85 percent of the company and
splitting the rest with noteholders and other unsecured
creditors. After the company exits bankruptcy, 10 percent of the
company’s stock would be set aside for company managers,
according to the reorganization proposal.  
 Company spokesman Jim Fisher didn’t immediately return a
call for comment.  
 Visteon estimates the company’s stock may be worth as much
as $2.37 billion after it exits bankruptcy. Shareholders and
unsecured creditors say it will be worth more.  
 Since Visteon filed bankruptcy last year, the company’s
stock and its bonds have risen in value as investors bet the
company can successfully reorganize.  
 The company, which was spun off from Ford Motor Co. in
2000, filed for bankruptcy in May, listing assets of $4.58
billion and debt of $5.32 billion in Chapter 11 documents.  
 Visteon rose 17 cents, or 11 percent, to $1.69 at 1:17 p.m.
New York time in over-the-counter trading.  
 The case is In re Visteon Corp., 09-11786, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        