-- Wal-Mart Faces Bias Claims by 1 Million Female Workers
-- Karen Gullo
-- 2010-04-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/wal-mart-workers-gender-bias-back-pay-case-class-certification-upheld.html

          
          
             Wal-Mart Stores Inc. female
employees suing the retailer for back pay in the biggest private
gender-bias case in U.S. history can proceed as a group on
behalf of as many as 1 million women, an appeals court ruled.  
 Yesterday’s 6-5 decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals in
San Francisco allows women who have worked at Wal-Mart since
2001 to be part of a single class-action lawsuit over
discrimination claims, said Brad Seligman, an attorney for the
workers, in a phone interview. Potential plaintiffs exceed 1
million, he said.  
 Claims by employees who had left Wal-Mart before the
lawsuit was filed, along with claims for punitive damages, were
sent back to a judge in San Francisco to decide whether they can
be included in the group case. If all current and former workers
are included, the case would cover about 2.5 million women,
Seligman said. Their claims could amount to billions of dollars.  
 Ted Boutrous, an attorney representing Wal-Mart, said the
company will ask the U.S. Supreme Court to review the ruling. If
it’s not reversed, the decision would lead to “massive
litigation” against U.S. companies, Boutrous said in a
conference call yesterday.  
 “We’ve always believed that this case presents issues that
go far beyond the company,” said Boutrous, a partner at Gibson
Dunn & Crutcher LLP. Worker claims for back pay are “highly
individualized questions” that shouldn’t be handled on a class-
wide basis, he said.  
 Class Size  
 The court considered whether the experiences of six
original plaintiffs in the case may be common among other female
workers. The ruling reduced the number of potential plaintiffs
in the case by two-thirds, Boutrous said. He said the number of
women who can now proceed with claims for back pay is 500,000 or
less.  
 The Supreme Court may take several months to decide whether
to review the case, Boutrous said. Responding to a question
during the conference call, he said he was “not in a position
to talk about settlement.”  
 Seligman said he hopes the case goes to trial within a
year.  
 “Wal-Mart tries to project an improved image as a good
corporate citizen,” said Seligman, executive director of the
nonprofit Berkeley, California-based Impact Fund law foundation
that focuses on civil rights and employment cases. “But no
amount of PR is going to work until it addresses the claims of
its female employees.”  
 Wal-Mart, the largest private employer in the U.S. with 1.4
million workers, agreed in 2008 to pay as much as $640 million
to settle 63 federal and state class actions claiming the
company cheated hourly workers and forced them to work through
breaks.  
 Wal-Mart Greeter  
 In the gender-discrimination case, the Bentonville,
Arkansas-based company is accused of paying women on salary and
those earning hourly wages less than men for the same jobs and
giving them fewer promotions. The lawsuit was filed in 2001 by
six women, including Betty Dukes, a Wal-Mart greeter in
Pittsburg, California.  
 Experts hired by Seligman said their research of Wal-Mart’s
salary and personnel data on a regional basis showed that women
were paid less than men in every region and the pay disparity
existed in most job categories. It took women longer to enter
management than men, the experts said.  
 Wal-Mart, which denied discriminating, said it should be
allowed to individually fight worker claims.  
 Store-Level Decisions  
 Company lawyers say there’s no pay disparity between men
and woman at most of its stores and managers make subjective
salary and promotion decisions at the store-level. Forcing the
company to defend those decisions on a group basis was a denial
of Wal-Mart’s right to due process, they said.  
 Company lawyers argued the plaintiffs’ expert analysis was
flawed because managers make subjective pay and promotion
decisions at the store-level. Forcing the company to defend
salary decisions on a group basis was a denial of Wal-Mart’s
right to due process, they said.  
 The court’s majority said in yesterday’s ruling, “It would
be better to handle some parts of this case as a class action
instead of clogging the federal courts with innumerable
individual suits litigating the same issues repeatedly.”  
 Dissenting judges warned the case could set a dangerous
precedent for businesses.  
 “Never before has such a low bar been set for certifying
such a gargantuan class,” Judge Sandra Ikuta wrote. “Put
simply, the door is now open to Title VII lawsuits targeting
national and international companies, regardless of size and
diversity, based on nothing more than general and conclusory
allegations, a handful of anecdotes and statistical disparities
that bear little relation to the alleged discriminatory
decisions.”  
 Workplace Discrimination  
 Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibits
workplace discrimination based on sex, race or religion.  
 Yesterday’s ruling was the third time a court has said
women can sue Wal-Mart as a group.  
 Class status makes it easier for the group to finance the
litigation than if the women proceeded individually. It also
gives the women more leverage to negotiate a settlement. A
federal judge decided in 2004 that the experiences of the six
original plaintiffs may be common to other current and former
workers and certified the case as a class action.  
 A three-judge panel of the federal appeals court in San
Francisco upheld that ruling in 2007. Wal-Mart asked a larger
panel of judges to review the case. The company has 90 days to
file a petition with the Supreme Court.  
 In addition to Seligman, the workers are represented by
Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll PLLC, three other law firms and
two public justice groups.  
 The case is Dukes v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., 04-16688, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ana Aquino scans customer purchases at a Wal-Mart store in Kearny, New Jersey in this file photo. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Ana Aquino scans customer purchases at a Wal-Mart store in Kearny, New Jersey in this file photo. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
