-- Weber Says Germany's Economic Recovery to Gain Momentum in Second Quarter
-- Rainer Buergin
-- 2010-04-26T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/weber-says-germany-s-economic-recovery-to-gain-momentum-in-second-quarter.html

          
          
             Bundesbank President Axel Weber
said Germany’s economic recovery will gather steam in the second
quarter, helped by exports.  
 While a harsh winter damped growth in the first three
months of the year, the “trend recovery remained basically
intact and the recovery process is expected to regain momentum
in the second quarter,” Weber said in a speech in New York
today, according to a text published by the Bundesbank. “As a
typical mainstay of the German economy, exports will once again
play an important role in the recovery.”  
 German companies are stepping up output to meet rising
export orders. Manufacturing growth accelerated in April and
business confidence jumped to a two-year high. The Bundesbank
forecasts growth of 1.6 percent this year after the economy
contracted 5 percent in 2009, the most since World War II.  
 “There are obvious footprints of the financial turmoil and
economic downturn in Germany,” in particular in the banking
industry, Weber said. “Total write-downs of German banks have
so far accumulated to roughly $98.9 billion during the financial
crisis. And further losses, especially in the form of write-
downs on loans, are still to be expected.”  
 Weber, who’s also a member of the European Central Bank’s
Governing Council, rejected criticism that German export
strength is to blame for widening economic divergence in the
euro region, and called on member countries to follow Germany’s
example.  
 Blaming Germany  
     “Attempts to blame Germany for problems in those countries
and policy recommendations of symmetrical adjustment needs are
questionable,” Weber said. “Rather, the adjustment process
that Germany underwent in the decade preceding the financial
crisis” may “serve as an example.”  
 Weber said it’s “neither possible nor advisable” to take
direct measures to counter Germany’s export strength, which
mainly reflects the specialization of German companies in making
durable consumer and high-end capital goods.  
 German sales abroad rose 5.1 percent in February from the
previous month, the biggest increase since June 2009. Global
trade will expand 7 percent this year after contracting 10.7
percent in 2009, the International Monetary Fund said on April
21.  
 “It may well take some time before global output and world
trade return to a solid growth path,” Weber said. Potential
output is also likely to be “significantly lower for some time
than in the years preceding the financial crisis,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in New York at  cvits@bloomberg.net 
Rainer Buergin in New York at  rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        