-- Euro Slides on Concern Over Greece Aid Plan
-- Ron Harui
-- 2010-04-27T03:48:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/yen-declines-as-global-recovery-momentum-spurs-demand-for-greater-yields.html

          
          
             The euro retreated from the
highest level in more than one week against the yen on concern
the European Union-led 45 billion euro ($60 billion) aid
package for Greece won’t stop the deficit crisis from spreading.  
 Europe’s currency traded near a three-month low against
the pound before Greek transport workers hold a strike today
and after German Chancellor Angela Merkel said yesterday she
won’t release funds for Greece until the nation has a
“sustainable” plan to reduce its shortfall. The yen rose
against all of its 16 major counterparts as Chinese stocks led
declines in Asian equities, curbing demand for riskier assets.  
 “There is concern that the German government may delay
the extension of financial aid for Greece,” said Akane Vallery
Uchida, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc in Tokyo. “This led to resumed selling of the euro.”  
 The euro slid to 125.49 yen at 12:36 p.m. in Tokyo from
125.73 in New York yesterday when it hit 126.30, the highest
since April 16. It was at $1.3374 from $1.3383. The common
currency fetched 86.56 pence from 86.58 pence yesterday, when
it reached 86.04 pence, the lowest since Jan. 28.  
 The dollar traded at 93.82 yen from 93.96 in New York when
it touched 94.36, the strongest level since April 6. The yen
advanced to 86.84 against Australian dollar from 87.09
yesterday, when it fell to 87.77, the weakest since September
2008. Japan’s currency rose to 67.65 versus New Zealand’s
dollar from 67.97.  
 There will be no decision on aid for Greece until the
International Monetary Fund works out a plan of cuts with the
government in Athens, Merkel told reporters yesterday in Berlin.
Germany will assist Greece only after it agrees to take
“tough” measures for the next several years, she said.  
 ‘Homework First’  
 “I’ve said for weeks that Greece must do its homework
first,” Merkel said late yesterday, drawing applause from an
audience in the town of Soest in North Rhine-Westphalia, where
state elections are due on May 9. She said that while Germany
is prepared to release funds for debt-stricken Greece, “first
I want to see the program.”  
 Greece has 8.5 billion euros of bonds coming due 10 days
after the regional election and the extra yield that investors
demand to hold its 10-year bonds over German bunds jumped 93
basis points to 652 basis points yesterday.  
 Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou will today brief
lawmakers on the nation’s economic outlook. Transport workers
are expected to hold a strike and the ADEDY civil service union
plans to stage a rally. GSEE, Greece’s biggest private-sector
union, will decide whether to go on strike.  
 ‘Lingering Woes’  
 The yen and dollar strengthened as the Shanghai Composite
Index slumped 2.2 percent, the MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.5
percent and the Nikkei 225 Stock Average slipped 0.4 percent.  
 “Lingering woes over Greece’s debt crisis seem to be
dragging down Asian equities,” said Lee Wai Tuck, a currency
strategist at Forecast Pte in Singapore. “This is causing
safe-haven buying of the yen and the dollar.”  
 The yen typically strengthens in times of financial
turmoil as Japan’s trade surplus frees the nation from
dependence on overseas capital. The dollar benefits as the
world’s main reserve currency.  
 Japan’s currency also gained after the Nikkei English News
reported today, without saying how it obtained the information,
that Japan’s central bank may upgrade its fiscal 2011 consumer
price index forecast.  
 BOJ policy makers release semiannual economic forecasts
after their April 30 gathering in Tokyo.  
 “The Nikkei report on a possible upgrade in the BOJ’s
forecasts suggests an improvement in fundamentals,” said
Hideki Amikura, deputy general manager of foreign exchange at
Nomura Trust & Banking Co. in Tokyo. “This is a yen-buying
factor for a lot of Tokyo-based participants.”  
 U.S. Reports  
 The dollar advanced on speculation that U.S. reports this
week will show the nation’s economic recovery is gathering
momentum, backing the case for the Federal Reserve to move
closer to withdrawing stimulus.  
 The S&P/Case-Shiller home-price index in the U.S. climbed
1.3 percent in February, the first increase since December 2006,
according to a Bloomberg News survey before today’s report.  
 U.S. consumer spending probably increased at a 3.3 percent
annual rate last quarter, more than double the 1.6 percent pace
of the previous three months, according to a separate survey
before that data is released on April 30.  
 “The recent set of good U.S. data will fuel speculation
about rises in interest rates there, providing some impetus to
the dollar,” said Shuzo Kakuta, a senior foreign-exchange
adviser at Tokyo Tomin Bank Ltd.  
 Futures on the CME Group Inc. exchange show a 72 percent
chance the Fed will raise its benchmark rate by at least a
quarter-percentage point by its December meeting, compared with
60 percent odds a week ago.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Yasuhiko Seki in Tokyo at 
 yseki5@bloomberg.net ;
Ron Harui in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A file photograph shows a man holding euro notes of various denominations for a photograph in London. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
