-- Yuan Forwards Appreciate After Global Rebound Bolsters Regional Currencies
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-04-26T08:35:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-26/yuan-forwards-appreciate-after-global-rebound-bolsters-regional-currencies.html

          
          
             Yuan forwards climbed as improving
economic data globally boosted Asia’s trade outlook and
increased demand for the region’s currencies.  
 Reports last week showed U.S. new-home sales and orders for
most durable goods climbed, indicating quickening growth in the
world’s largest economy. Money-market rates fell as China
tightened real-estate financing by requiring developers to
submit fund-raising plans for review, while the central bank
pledged to maintain an “easy” monetary policy.  
 “With the dollar under pressure across the board, it’s
quite natural that dollar against the yuan would stay under a
lot of pressure,” said Gerrard Katz, Hong Kong-based head of
foreign-exchange trading at Standard Chartered Plc. “Data
continues to improve in general. Risk appetite trades are doing
well at the moment.”  
 Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards climbed 0.1 percent
to 6.6057 per dollar as of 4:21 p.m. in Hong Kong, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts reflect bets the
currency will strengthen 3.3 percent from the spot rate of
6.8273. Most Asian currencies appreciated today against the
dollar and the MSCI Asia-Pacific Index gained 1.6 percent.  
 Chinese officials this weekend pledged to extend their
“proactive” fiscal measures and maintain a “relatively easy”
monetary policy, saying the global economic recovery remains
tentative. China will announce in August a new stimulus package
of possibly 4 trillion yuan ($586 billion), the China Business
newspaper reported on its Web site, citing unidentified sources.  
 ‘Relatively Easy’  
 The economy expanded 11.9 percent in the first quarter from
a year earlier, the biggest gain in almost three years, as lower
borrowing costs and the government’s $586 billion stimulus
package boosted spending on roads and other projects.  
 China won’t likely return to pre-crisis trade levels this
year, although the situation is improving, Commerce Minister
Chen Deming said in a speech in Guangzhou on April 23 posted on
the ministry Web site.  
 The China Securities Regulatory Commission has sent
financing requests from 41 companies to the Ministry of Land and
Resources for reviews of land-use compliance, according to a
statement posted on a government Web site on April 24. Central
bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said in a statement at an
International Monetary Fund meeting in Washington the same day
that China will keep its “relatively easy” monetary policy.  
 “Market participants continue to view interest-rate hikes
as unlikely in the near term, after the PBOC governor stated
over the weekend that the central bank would maintain relatively
easy monetary policy and authorities further tightened real-
estate financing,” Woon Khien Chia, a Singapore-based foreign-
exchange and exchange rate strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc, wrote in a note dated today.  
 The three-year onshore swap rate declined nine basis points
to 2.83 percent, according to Bloomberg data. It touched 2.82
percent, the lowest level since October. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Chen in Hong Kong at 
 bchen45@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Thio Chin Loo, a senior currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA, talks about the outlook for a revaluation of the yuan and the impact of a Greek aid package on the Euro. 
     She speaks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis from Singapore. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
