-- Vale to Bid for Railway Concession at Brazil Auction
-- Jeb Blount
-- 2007-10-02T15:32:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-10-02/vale-to-bid-for-railway-concession-at-brazil-auction-update1-.html

          
          
             Cia. Vale do Rio Doce , the world's
biggest  iron-ore  producer, will bid in an auction tomorrow to
operate a new stretch of Brazil's North-South Railway, allowing
it to ship more agricultural commodities and general cargo.  
 The minimum bid for the 30-year concession to run the 720-
kilometer (447-mile) section is 1.48 billion reais ($811
million), Rio de Janeiro-based Vale said today in a statement.  
 Traffic on Vale's principal routes, needed to transport iron
ore, surged in recent years as farmers also seek to ship goods to
meet rising global demand. The North-South Railway runs through
Tocantins and Maranhao states, and the new section moves it
closer to Brazil's sugar-cane and soybean growing regions.  
 ``The project will permit the creation of a new corridor for
general cargo, making the export of grains, ethanol, and sugar
produced in the Central-North Region of  Brazil  more viable,''
Vale said in the statement.  
 Vale has operated a 225-kilometer section of the railway
since 1996. ARG Ltda. and Alvorada Servicos de Engenharia Ltda.
have also qualified to bid in the auction tomorrow, according to
the Web site of Valec Engenharia, Construcoes e Ferrovias SA, the
Brazilian government agency that built and will lease the
railway. The new section is part of a 4.5 billion-real project to
link Brazil's north to its industrialized southeast by rail.  
 `Crucial' Transport  
 Vale, Brazil's second-largest rail operator, has been taking
a bigger role in meeting demand for transportation of commodities
in Brazil.  
 ``Transport is so crucial to all commodities businesses that
many mining projects have become transportation projects with a
mine or processing plant tacked on,'' Tom Revy, director of
development at GRD Minproc, an Australian engineering group, said
at a Brazilian Mining Association conference on Sept. 25  
 Vale shares fell 1.68 reais, or 3 percent, to 53.92 reais at
12:05 p.m. in  Sao Paulo . A close at that price would be the
biggest one-day drop since Sept. 10.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeb Blount in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jblount@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        