-- Obama Says Outcome of Sudan Independence Vote May Shape Fate of Millions
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2010-09-24T22:39:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-08/clinton-says-u-s-working-to-avoid-sudan-oil-violence-ahead-of-2011-vote.html
President  Barack Obama  urged Sudan
to hold a peaceful referendum on schedule, warning the largest
country in Africa that millions of lives would be affected by
the outcome.  “What happens in Sudan in the days ahead may decide
whether a people who have endured too much war move towards
peace or slip backwards into bloodshed,” Obama said yesterday
at a United Nations ministerial meeting on Sudan in New York.
“What happens to Sudan matters to all of sub-Saharan Africa and
it matters to the world.”  Obama weighed in on a conflict that Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  has described as “‘a ticking time bomb.’’ The
biggest concern is that Sudan may plunge back into a violent
civil war if there are delays to a planned Jan. 9 independence
vote that would split the oil-rich south from the Muslim north.  UN Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon  reinforced Obama’s message
on a timely referendum, calling for a vote that must be
‘‘peaceful’’ and ‘‘free of intimidation.’’  The president will be seeking to build on the efforts of
his predecessor,  George W. Bush , who helped broker a 2005 peace
agreement ending a 21-year conflict that left 2 million dead and
displaced more than 4 million. As many as 1.5 million southern
Sudanese now live in northern Sudan. The agreement called for a
referendum and for north and south to share Sudan’s oil
reserves.  ‘‘Both southerners in the north and northerners living in
Southern Sudan told Human Rights Watch that they feared
retaliation, even expulsion, if secession were approved,’’ the
New-York based Human Rights Watch said on Sept. 22.  Election Lead-Up  In the lead-up to the referendum, the U.S. has brought in
former Ambassador  Princeton Lyman  to help  Scott Gration , the
special envoy to Sudan. For its part, the UN has formed a three-
member panel, led by former Tanzanian President  Benjamin Mkapa ,
to monitor the vote.  The two regions already co-exist in the national
government. President  Umar al-Bashir  runs Sudan from the capital
of Khartoum, while the leader of Southern Sudan,  Salva Kiir , is
vice president and based in Juba. Southern Sudan borders
Ethiopia, a major U.S. ally in Africa.  Leaders from both Sudanese regions reiterated their
commitment to a lasting peace while recognizing that
negotiations were at a delicate stage. Vice President  Ali Osman Taha , standing in for al-Bashir, said ‘‘the long-winding road
has reached a critical juncture’’ while vowing his government
would accept the outcome of the referendum.  Without Delay  ‘‘It is up to all of us to ensure the vote is carried out
without delay and division,’’ said Kiir, who is also president
of Southern Sudan. ‘‘We need help.’’  One contentious point is how the two sides will share the
oil wealth. Oil fields in Southern Sudan account for most of the
nation’s crude output, which, at 490,000 barrels a day, is the
third-biggest in sub-Saharan Africa, according to the  BP
Statistical Review of World Energy . China is the major buyer of
Sudanese crude.  The U.S. has pursued a carrot-and-stick tactic to try and
keep peace talks on track, alternating threats of additional
sanctions with promises to invest in non-oil industries and
resume diplomatic relations if the transition runs smoothly.  Sudan, which is on the U.S. list of state sponsors of
terrorism, has been subject to American economic sanctions since
1997.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  at  fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
 Kate Andersen Brower  in New York at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  