-- N.Z. House Prices Rise at Slowest Annual Pace Since November on Loan Costs
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-10-07T01:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-08/new-zealand-house-prices-increase-at-slowest-annual-pace-since-december.html
New Zealand’s  house prices  rose at
the slowest annual pace since November as home-loan interest
rates increased and consumer borrowing declined.  Prices advanced 2 percent in September from a year earlier,
after gaining 3.1 percent in August, according to an index
compiled by  Quotable Value New Zealand Ltd.   Weaker demand for property adds to signs that New Zealand’s
economic recovery may be gradual this year. All 14 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News expect central bank Governor  Alan Bollard  to refrain from raising the official cash rate until
next year after he kept the benchmark unchanged at 3 percent on
Sept. 16 and lowered his growth forecasts.  “The housing market is currently experiencing a very low
level of sales,” said Jonno Ingerson, research director at
Quotable Value. “Some buyers are holding back to see where the
market will go. Others are unable to find suitable properties.”  The Wellington, New Zealand-based government valuation
agency doesn’t publish monthly index values. It said prices have
fallen 1.4 percent since March.  Mortgage approvals in the three months ended Oct. 1 fell 26
percent from a year earlier, central bank  figures  show.
Borrowing for housing rose 2.4 percent in August from a year
earlier, the slowest pace since records began in 1999, according
to the bank.  The average variable home-loan rate rose to 6.4 percent in
August from 6.25 percent in July after Bollard increased the
 cash rate  for a second month on July 29, according to central
bank figures. The average one-year home-loan rate was 6.51
percent in August compared with 5.70 percent a year earlier.  Quotable Value said the magnitude 7 earthquake that struck
the Canterbury district on Sept. 4 stopped real estate
transactions for some weeks. It had insufficient information to
create a valid regional index, so the annual change recorded for
the quake-hit region was the same as in August, it said.  The lack of Canterbury data won’t have affected the
national index, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  