-- Electronic Arts to Use Credits on Facebook Games
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2010-11-02T17:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-08/zynga-will-use-facebook-credits-system-exclusively-on-most-facebook-games.html
Electronic Arts Inc. , the second-
largest video-game publisher, agreed to use the Facebook Credits
payment system exclusively on its games on Facebook Inc.’s site.  The five-year agreement gives Facebook a 30 percent cut of
virtual-goods purchases in games created by Electronic Arts’
Playfish division, including “Pet Society” and “Restaurant
City,” according to a statement today.  Players use Credits to buy virtual items and advance
through games. The deal signals Facebook’s tightening grip on
the virtual-goods market, which could generate $1.6 billion in
the U.S. this year, according to the research firm  Inside
Network . It competes in that area with a range of startups and
EBay Inc.’s PayPal unit.  The move follows similar agreements by Zygna Game Network
Inc. and other publishers of social games with Facebook, the
world’s largest social-networking service.  Last November, Electronic Arts bought Playfish, the second-
largest maker of games on Facebook, for as much as $400 million.
On Oct. 10, the Redwood City, California-based company purchased
Chillingo, the U.K.-based publisher of “Angry Birds,” to add
titles made for  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone and iPad.  Electronic Arts  rose  12 cents to $15.92 at 1:23 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares had
declined 11 percent this year before today.  Facebook, based in Palo Alto, California, has more than 500
million users. It makes most of its money from advertising. The
closely held company’s sales may double to at least $1.4 billion
in 2010, from $700 million to $800 million last year, two people
familiar with the matter said in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cliff Edwards  in San Francisco at 
 Cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  