-- AOL CEO says sales may shrink for two years -paper
-- 
-- Sat Oct 21, 2006 2:21pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/10/21/businesspro-aol-sales-dc-idUSL2176365120061021

 

 FRANKFURT  (Reuters) - Internet service provider AOL's sales 
may shrink for the next two years as it gives away services to 
win more users and attract advertising, its chief executive 
said in an interview published on Saturday. 

  "Maybe another two years, you are right there," Jonathan 
Miller said when asked by German newspaper Die Welt whether 
sales would continue to fall. "But it's about profitability for 
us in this phase."  "In the past, we invested a lot of money in the 
infrastructure for the access business and in winning 
customers. That's over now. Later, sales should rise again," 
Miller said.  Miller said AOL, a unit of U.S. media group Time Warner 
( TWX.N ), made profits of 20 to 25 percent of sales in its 
Internet access business but more than 50 percent in its 
advertising business.  In recent weeks, AOL has sold its Internet access units in 
Germany, France and Britain for a total of almost $2 billion as 
it reshapes itself into a free Web portal where popular e-mail 
and entertainment services are supported by advertising.  Time Warner's online advertising revenues jumped 40 percent 
to $449 million in the second quarter, bolstering its strategy. 
But AOL's sales dropped 2 percent to $2 billion due to a 
decline in subscription revenue as it lost paying customers.  Miller said AOL wanted to expand its European presence and 
aimed to be represented in most of the continent's countries 
with its own Internet portal and advertising network in five 
years' time.  Asked whether a sale by Time Warner of AOL was now off the 
agenda, Miller said: "For companies, nothing is ever completely 
off the table. But it also doesn't make much sense. Most media 
companies are looking for a way into the digital business."  He said an initial public offering for AOL, after Time 
Warner's announcement this week that it would float its cable 
TV unit, was "an option."  Miller said he expected further industry consolidation in 
the wake of Google's ( GOOG.O ) deal to buy video site YouTube 
for $1.65 billion earlier this month and News Corp.'s NWS.N 
$580 million acquisition of online music and dating firm 
MySpace.com.  He said AOL would "definitely" be a buyer, and that the 
company was looking at various companies, including in Europe.  Miller said he had had talks with U.S. social networking 
site Facebook, the only hot U.S. Internet property left of any 
size, but had decided not to bid for it.  Facebook has been reported to be in discussions to be sold 
to Yahoo ( YHOO.O ) for close to $1 billion.  "In the end, it's a question of price," Miller said. "One 
consequence of Google's acquisition of YouTube is that no one 
wants to sell under the price they think they can get. The game 
is becoming ever more expensive."