-- Bank of Communications May Sell $7 Bln Shares, Bonds
-- Luo Jun
-- 2006-11-17T04:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-11-17/bank-of-communications-may-sell-7-bln-shares-bonds-update4-.html

          
          
             Bank of Communications Ltd., China's
fifth-largest, plans to raise as much as $7.4 billion by selling
shares and bonds to domestic investors as it seeks funds to
extend more loans and credit cards.  
 The Shanghai-based bank will seek approval to sell as many
as 4.5 billion yuan-denominated shares and 25 billion yuan
($3.18 billion) of subordinated bonds, it said in a statement to
the Hong Kong stock exchange today. Based on yesterday's closing
price in Hong Kong, its stock offering could raise $4.2 billion.  
 Bank of Communications, 19.9 percent owned by  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) , follows bigger rivals Industrial & Commercial Bank
of China and Bank of China Ltd. in tapping domestic investors
after Shanghai's benchmark index surged 68 percent this year.
The bank needs to replenish capital that's failed to keep pace
with loan growth in the world's fastest-growing major economy.  
 ``Chinese banking stocks are all the rage right now as
investors bet on potential benefit from the robust economic
growth,'' said Zhang Ling, who helps manage the equivalent of
$2.4 billion at ICBC Credit Suisse Asset Management Co. in
Beijing. ``Bank of Communications is expanding faster than the
bigger rivals and therefore demand for capital is more urgent.''  
 Shares of Industrial & Commercial Bank of  China  Ltd., the
nation's biggest, have gained 22 percent on the mainland since
their Oct. 27 debut after an initial public offering. Bank of
China, which also had an IPO this year, has risen 19 percent on
the domestic market since July 5.  
 Chinese banking stocks dropped today. Shares of Bank of
Communications fell 2.9 percent in Hong Kong to HK$7.13 at 11:56
a.m.  
 Capital Adequacy  
 Proceeds from the share and bond sales will be used to
shore up Bank of Communications' capital. The lender's capital-
adequacy ratio, an indicator of its financial health, fell to
11.09 percent as of Sept. 30 from 11.52 percent at the end of
2005.  
 Although above the minimum required, the ratio still lags
behind those of Hong Kong banks, which are generally above 16
percent, said Victor Tsang, who helps oversee $50 million of
assets at Quam Asset Management in Hong Kong.  
 Increasing lending reduces the proportion of capital to
risk-weighted credit, forcing banks to raise more funds to
sustain growth. Bank of Communications had 911.2 billion  yuan  of
outstanding loans as of Sept. 30, an 18 percent increase from
the end of 2005. China's banking regulator requires a minimum
capital adequacy ratio of 8 percent to protect depositors and
absorb losses in case of bankruptcy.  
 Growth Opportunities  
 ``There's still ample opportunity for growth'' in China,
Tsang said. Also bank stocks are currently trading at high
valuations, he said, making this a good time to raise money
through the markets.  
 Chinese companies have sold $14.7 billion of A shares since
a sales ban was lifted in May, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The one-year restriction had been imposed to allow
time for the conversion of mostly state-held non-tradable stock
to common equity.  
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China last month raised
$5.1 billion on the mainland as part of a $19.1 billion
simultaneous offering that included a Hong Kong sale. Bank of
China sold $2.5 billion of shares in China in June after an
$11.2 billion Hong Kong IPO earlier in the same month.  
 Mutual Funds, Credit Cards  
 Bank of Communications' third-quarter profit rose 42
percent to 2.99 billion yuan as economic growth spurred demand
for consumer loans and asset-management services. New yuan
lending by China's banks rose 40 percent in the first nine
months from a year earlier, even as the government tried to cool
the fastest economic expansion in a decade.  
 Its profit growth may average 33 percent between 2005 and
2008 as loans increase by 19 percent annually, according to
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst Ning Ma. Bank of Communications
focuses on offering loans, mutual funds and credit cards to the
wealthiest Chinese, those with savings of more than $50,000.  
 The bank will hold a shareholders meeting on Jan. 9 to vote
on the share offering, which is subject to approval by the China
Securities Regulatory Commission, the China Banking Regulatory
Commission and other relevant regulatory authorities, the
announcement said.  
 Shares of Bank of Communications, which raised HK$16.84
billion ($2.17 billion) in a Hong Kong initial public offering
last year, have doubled in price since the sale.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew R. Miller in Hong Kong at 
 mmiller31@bloomberg.net 
Luo Jun in  Shanghai  at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson in Hong Kong at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        