-- Seldom-read home loan docs must change: experts
-- By  Diane Bartz
-- Sun Feb 24, 2008 10:09am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/02/24/businesspro-usa-subprime-disclosure-dc-idUSN2261054220080224

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - The papers that U.S. borrowers sign 
when buying a house are piled so high that few people read them 
all, and even fewer absorb the information. 

  While no one blames the subprime crisis on complex 
documentation, some people now losing their homes as adjustable 
rate mortgages rise might not be in such dire straits if they 
had fully understood their loan, experts say.  These critics of the current documents say it is time to 
require home mortgage lenders to prepare a short, plain-English 
summary of each loan so consumers actually know what they are 
signing. Many in the housing industry agree.  Luke Froeb, a former director of the U.S. Federal Trade 
Commission's Bureau of Economics, says a drive in recent years 
to give borrowers more information has backfired. Additional 
data and legalese has turned the forms into perhaps a dozen 
pages of fine print.  "The disclosures have gotten so large that nobody ever 
reads them any more," said Froeb, who now teaches at Vanderbilt 
University.  Research by the FTC found that half of the borrowers it 
surveyed could not identify their loan amount in mortgage 
papers. One-third could not identify their interest rate. 
Two-thirds did not know if their mortgages had prepayment 
penalties, a feature which can make refinancing effectively 
impossible.  In response, the FTC tested simplified versions of the 
documents -- the longest was three pages -- and a follow-up 
study showed it made a big difference. The number of questions 
answered correctly rose to 80 percent from 61 percent, the FTC 
found.  "This is such low-hanging fruit. This is absolutely so easy 
to do and to accomplish," Froeb said.  Mortgage brokers, who helped kill a 2002 proposal by the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development to expand mortgage 
disclosures, said they enthusiastically support the redesign.  "Consumers today do not understand the forms that they 
sign," said Marc Savitt, president-elect of the National 
Association of Mortgage Brokers. "All (loan) originators should 
disclose in the exact same forms and in the exact same manner. 
... the FTC is right about this."  The Federal Reserve, Treasury Department, Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corp and other banking regulators have proposed a 
two-page form that lenders could use to summarize monthly 
payment terms of an adjustable rate mortgage.  The form, which would be voluntary, also includes brief 
descriptions of loan terms such as prepayment penalties, 
balloon payments and taxes and insurance.  Rick Farr, partial owner of United Capital Mortgage 
Assistance, firmly believes that inadequate information hurt 
many of the people who call his company for help in preventing 
foreclosure.  In many cases, when lawyers, real estate agents, buyers and 
sellers gather to close on a sale, the terms of the loan were 
such that "the only people at that table who didn't think there 
would be a problem with the loan was the (new) homeowners," he 
said.  Lawmakers are among those who have failed to read their 
mortgage details and are interested in making them easier to 
absorb.  Sen. Charles Schumer, a New York Democrat, told Reuters he 
trusted his bankers when he signed for the loan on his house. 
"Like most people, I didn't read my loan document in the one 
mortgage my wife and I signed 25 years ago."  Schumer sponsored a 1988 credit card law requiring simpler 
disclosures on credit cards. A member of the Senate Banking 
Committee, he now has a bill pending that would require lenders 
to give borrowers a one-page table with information such as the 
monthly payment and the interest rate.  Republican Sen. Charles Grassley, of Iowa, also said he did 
not read his mortgage documents but thinks simpler disclosure 
could be achieved without legislation.  "The consumer ought to know as much as the bank knows," he 
said. "I bet you don't need to change the law to do it this 
way."  Richard Syron, chief executive of Freddie Mac FRE.N, the 
second-largest U.S. home funding company, told Reuters last 
week he also worries that consumers do not always understand 
pitfalls hidden in their mortgage details.  "I've refinanced a few times, and I can't say I read a 
fifth of the 75 pages before signing them all," said Syron. 
"We've just got to do a much, much better job of being sure 
that the consumer knows what they're getting."  (Editing by  Tim Dobbyn )