-- Germany says WestLB may take 5 years to fix: report
-- 
-- Sun Feb 24, 2008 8:54am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/02/24/businesspro-westlb-subprime-dc-idUSL2452536520080224

 

 FRANKFURT  (Reuters) - The German state that partly owns 
WestLB has predicted that rehabilitating the stricken regional 
lender will take up to five years, according to a newspaper 
report. 

  Earlier this month, WestLB's WDLG.UL owners stumped up a 
further 3 billion euros to rescue the lender which said it 
would slash jobs as it prepares to be sold.  The state of North Rhine-Westphalia (NRW), which owns 
almost 40 percent of the bank, said it would shoulder the fresh 
risk guarantees, which come on top of 2 billion euros agreed 
last month to cover losses and write-downs in the wake of 
global credit turmoil.  In a newspaper interview on Sunday, NRW's finance minister 
warned that WestLB's problems would not be solved any time 
soon.  "The clean up will certainly take between three and five 
years," Helmut Linssen told German newspaper Welt am Sonntag. 
"Staying patient and rational is necessary. Otherwise all of 
those involved will lose a lot of money."  Linssen called on the federal German government to help pay 
for the repair of banks backed by regional governments such as 
WestLB who have been hit hard by the credit market turmoil.  "The German Finance Minister helps IKBIKBG.DE, which made 
considerable losses out of the risk-paper business. Why doesn't 
Mr Steinbrueck help publicly-backed banks?"  Company lender IKB, Germany's highest profile casualty of 
the subprime crisis, was rescued by a government bailout.  Europe's biggest economy has taken a hard beating from 
credit market turbulence and Germany's regional state-backed 
landesbanks such as WestLB have been especially badly hit.  Struggling after the abolition of government guarantees 
that made it cheaper for them to borrow, many seized on the 
booming market in securitized debt to bolster profit only to 
run into trouble when credit markets seized up.  The credit crisis, which started when U.S. home owners were 
squeezed by falling property prices and rising interest rates, 
has rocked confidence in the global economy.  It battered SIVs (structured investment vehicles), which 
raise funding by issuing short-term debt to finance longer-term 
investments in bank debt and asset-backed securities.  The off-balance-sheet vehicles have been caught out as 
investors shunned complex debt instruments and refused to cough 
up short-term funding.  WestLB, which ran a series of investment vehicles including 
SIVs with a value of about 25 billion euros, is worth about 7 
billion euros -- roughly the same as the value of its equity.  (Writing by  John O'Donnell ; Editing by  Richard Hubbard )