-- Ambac rescue may be announced Mon or Tues: source
-- By  Dan Wilchins
-- Sun Feb 24, 2008 5:41am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/02/24/businesspro-ambac-rescue-dc-idUSN2261985120080224

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - A rescue for bond insurer Ambac 
Financial Group Inc ABK.N may be announced on Monday or 
Tuesday, a person familiar with the matter said on Friday. 

  Ambac, facing billions of dollars of expected losses from 
guaranteeing repackaged subprime mortgages, is talking to banks 
and regulators about raising extra capital to keep its top 
credit ratings.  A deal has not yet been signed, and may still fall through, 
but talks with banks including Citigroup Inc ( C.N ), UBS AG 
( UBSN.VX ) and Wachovia Corp WB.N are advancing, although 
there are still details to be worked out, the person said.  Investors fear that Ambac will lose its top credit ratings 
from Moody's and Standard & Poor's, forcing investors to sell 
billions of dollars of securities and lifting borrowing costs 
for consumers and city governments. U.S. stocks, which had been 
in negative territory for most of the session, turned positive 
after the prospect of an Ambac rescue was initially reported by 
CNBC television.  Ambac shares rose 16 percent to close at $10.71 on the New 
York Stock Exchange, but the second-largest U.S. bond insurer's 
shares have fallen 88 percent since the start of 2007.  The U.S. bond insurance industry, which guarantees some 
$2.4 trillion of debt, is broadly looking to raise new capital 
and reorganize as expected losses have mounted. The insurers 
originally focused mainly on insuring bonds issued by state and 
local governments, but have lost big after the foray into 
guaranteeing repackaged consumer debt and other complicated 
instruments.  At least two bond insurers, MBIA Inc and FGIC Corp, have 
announced plans to divide their municipal bond insurance 
businesses from their other insurance operations. Ambac may 
follow a similar path, people familiar with the situation said.  The New York Times reported in Saturday editions that Ambac 
plans to split itself in two and hopes to raise $3 billion to 
bolster its finances, citing a person who had seen the plans 
and spoke on Friday. An announcement could come as early as 
Monday, the newspaper added.
  COMPETING INTERESTS  Rescuing or restructuring bond insurers is difficult 
because of the number of competing interests involved. Any 
splits could result in years of litigation, Bank of America 
analysts wrote last week.  For example, banks that bought guarantees from a bond 
insurer might not be interested in giving up their rights to 
cash flow from municipal bond guarantee business.  Ambac spokeswoman Vandana Sharma said the company was 
looking at all options, adding: "We have no comments on a deal 
or the timing of a deal. It's important when you negotiate that 
you let negotiations conclude before commenting."  Sharma added the company sees its efforts as raising 
capital to stabilize its ratings and does not see any deal as a 
"bailout."  Both Moody's and S&P have said they may cut the top ratings 
for Ambac's main bond insurance company. Fitch cut Ambac 
Assurance Corp's ratings on January 18.  Ambac guaranteed $524 billion of debt as of the end of 
December, less than MBIA's $679 billion.  In addition to Citi, UBS and Wachovia, banks working with 
Ambac include Barclays Plc ( BARC.L ), BNP Paribas SA ( BNPP.PA ), 
Allianz's ( ALVG.DE ) Dresdner Bank, Royal Bank of Scotland Group 
Plc ( RBS.L ), and Societe Generale ( SOGN.PA ).  Representatives from the bank were either not immediately 
available to comment or declined to comment on the potential 
timing of a deal.  Banks and the insurer are working with New York Insurance 
Superintendent Eric Dinallo. Andy Mais, a spokesman for the New 
York Insurance Department, said the department continues to 
work with bond insurers to resolve their problems and ensure a 
healthy, competitive market.  (Editing by  Leslie Gevirtz ,  Andre Grenon  and Gunna Dickson)