-- Jim Cramer: Diageo, Anheuser-Busch, Monster Worldwide, Google
-- Steven Bodzin
-- 2006-10-21T00:08:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-10-21/jim-cramer-diageo-anheuser-busch-monster-worldwide-google.html

          
          
             Jim Cramer  recommended that viewers
buy shares of liquor maker  Diageo Plc (DGE)  because of its dividend
and its growth in  China .  
 Diageo is similar to  Guess? Inc. (GES)  as a ``company that preys
on natural human weakness,'' said Cramer, a market commentator
and former hedge-fund manager on his ``Mad Money'' television
program on CNBC.  
 ``Think of Diageo as  Philip Morris  with a great dividend
and no tobacco,'' he said.  
 In response to a caller, Cramer said to avoid Anheuser-Busch Co. because he expects it to report a weak quarter.  
 Monster Worldwide Inc. (MWW)  stock is cheaper than it should be
because of a  stock options  backdating investigation and concerns
about a weak job market, Cramer said.  
 He said Monster may be a takeover target for  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  if
Yahoo tries to grow through acquisitions. Other possible targets
include Bankrate Inc. and Knot Inc., he said. Yahoo needs to
grow to compete with  Google Inc. (GOOG) , he said.  
 In an interview with Chicago Bears player Muhsin Muhammad,
Cramer said he liked Muhammad's portfolio of  FedEx Corp. (FDX) ,  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ,  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and  MetLife Inc. (MET)  He also said the portfolio was
well diversified.  
 Oregon Steel Mills  
 Based on  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) 's statement that shipment of
steel pipe had increased, investors should buy Oregon Steel
Mills Inc. before the company reports earnings, Cramer said.  
 He said to buy stock in  Alaska Air Group Inc. (ALK)  based on
strong quarters at  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  and Continental Airlines Inc. He
said  Corning Inc. (GLW)  is likely to rise after it reports earnings,
based on  3M Co. (MMM)  saying that liquid-crystal display trends are
positive.  
 He said to buy shares of  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  before the company
reports earnings and to buy shares of General Motors Corp. if
they decline after Ford Motor Co. reports earnings Oct. 23.  
 He said to avoid  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)   
 Cramer recommended ASV Inc., Bare Escentuals Inc.,  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL) , Merck & Co.,  SAIC Inc. (SAI) , DivX Inc.,  Akamai Technologies
Inc. (AKAM) , Apple Computer Inc.,  Under Armour Inc. (UA) ,  Mattel Inc. (MAT) ,  BB&T
Corp. (BBT)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , in response to questions during the
show's ``Lightning Round'' segment.  
 He told viewers to avoid  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY) , Dow
Chemical Co.,  Commvault Systems Inc. (CVLT) ,  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  and  Sony
Corp. (6758)   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Bodzin in  San Francisco  at 
 sbodzin@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Aimee Sullivan at   asullivan@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        