-- Brazil Miners `Ill-Prepared' for EU Law, Industry Group Says
-- Diana Kinch
-- 2008-09-05T21:41:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-09-05/brazil-miners-ill-prepared-for-eu-law-industry-group-says.html

          
          
             Brazil 's small- and medium-sized
miners and metal producers are ill-prepared to comply with
provisions of European Union environmental legislation that
take effect Dec. 1, an industry group said.  
 The EU's law on  Registration, Evaluation, Authorization
and Restriction of Chemicals  requires exporters to register any
of 30,000 chemical substances present in products in
concentrations of 0.01 percent or more. Higher contents will be
subject to further evaluation. The aim is to test 5 percent of
all products entering the zone, according to Rinaldo Mancin,
the Brazilian Mining Institute's environmental director.  
 The so-called REACH legislation was drafted to protect
consumers from potentially dangerous chemical residues in
imported products, including lead in paint. Exporters of
products including chemicals and metals, particularly in
developing nations, are concerned the rules may be used as a
trade barrier. Brazilian metal products requiring registration
and testing include nickel, copper metal and concentrates,
niobium, aluminum, steel, ferroalloys and iron-ore pellets.  
 ``REACH is a thousand-page monster,'' Mancin said today in
a telephone interview from the Belem office of Ibram, as the
institute is known, in northern Brazil.  
 ``It requires each exporter to set up its own
representative office in  Europe . The cost of doing this and
onerous, permanent product analysis may drive small and medium
companies out of this market,'' he said.  
 Brazilian iron-ore pellet producers including Samarco SA,
a joint venture between  Cia. Vale do Rio Doce  and  BHP Billiton
Plc, (BLT)  have sought an exemption for the ore products as they
require minimal processing using chemical substances, Mancin
said.  
 Other types of iron ore and manganese, which don't require
chemical processing, will not be subject to checking under
REACH, he said.  
 Brazilian metal and mineral exporters derive about 25
percent of their total export revenue from EU clients, Mancin
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana Kinch in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dkinch1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at  sstroth@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        