-- ASM's Capra Says He's `Optimistic' About Gazprom Deal
-- Tommaso Ebhardt
-- 2007-06-22T14:25:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-06-22/asm-s-capra-says-he-s-optimistic-about-gazprom-deal-update2-.html

          
          
             Renzo Capra, the chairman of  Italy 's
ASM SpA, the Brescia utility, is in talks with  Russia 's OAO
 Gazprom (GAZP)  to buy natural gas, as consumption of the fuel rises on
power-plant demand.  
 Negotiations on a long-term contract began this month and an
agreement may be completed within three months, Capra told
reporters today on the sidelines of a conference in Milan.  
 ``We expect to close by September or October,'' he said. ``I
am very optimistic.''  
 Rising  gas  consumption in Italy is being driven by
increasing demand from utilities expanding capacity at gas-burning  power plants . With western European gas reserves
shrinking, Gazprom, the world's biggest producer of the fuel, is
becoming increasingly important to replenish the region's
supplies.  
 ``You can't think about not striking a deal with Gazprom
because we don't have an alternative,'' said Giorgio Mascherone,
chief investment officer at Deutsche Bank SpA, who helps manage
32 billion euros ($43 billion).  
 Gazprom Deputy Chief Executive Officer  Alexander Medvedev 
told Italian newspaper Il Sole/24 Ore this week that his company
may form an alliance with Italy's Aem SpA to distribute gas in
the country once the Milan utility acquires ASM.  
 Moscow-based Gazprom already has a contract to supply 1.8
billion cubic meters of gas a year until September 2008 to ASM,
Aem and Bologna utility Hera SpA.  
 ASM shares climbed as much as 1.1 percent to 4.69 euros, and
traded up 3 cents, or 0.7 percent, at 4.67 euros at 4 p.m. in
Milan. The stock has added 12 percent since the beginning of the
year, giving the company a market value of 3.6 billion euros. Aem
stock rose 0.7 percent to trade at 2.80 euros.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam L. Freeman in Rome at 
 afreeman5@bloomberg.net 
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        