-- Weather Channel sale could come in 2 days
-- By Jui Chakravorty Das
-- Wed Jul 2, 2008 7:31pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/07/02/businesspro-weatherchannel-dc-idUSN0244232820080702

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Landmark Communications could announce 
the sale of the Weather Channel to a group made up of NBC 
Universal, Blackstone Group LP ( BX.N ) and Bain Capital in the 
next day or two, sources briefed on the matter said. 

  The final price on the cable network, which produces 
national, regional and local weather-related programs, is 
expected to be between $3 billion and $3.5 billion, and likely 
at the higher end of that range, the sources said.  The parties have been negotiating directly with Landmark 
since Time Warner Inc ( TWX.N ) withdrew its bid two weeks ago.  There is always a small chance things could fall apart or 
slow down at the last minute, but absent any such unforeseen 
problems, the deal should be announced in the next couple days, 
one of the people said.  Landmark, Blackstone and Bain could not be reached for 
comment. NBC Universal declined to comment.  Sources have previously told Reuters the consortium would 
divide $1.8 billion of equity roughly equally in their bid, 
which would be worth about $3.5 billion, including debt.  Blackstone's GSO Capital -- a hedge fund specializing in 
leveraged debt -- would provide about $600 million in debt, 
another source had told Reuters.  The Weather Channel network serves about 96 million U.S. 
subscribers and can be seen in more than 97 percent of all 
cable television homes.  Privately held Landmark, which put the channel up for sale 
along with other businesses, originally sought $5 billion for 
the channel, sources have said.  For General Electric Co's ( GE.N ) NBC Universal, the Weather 
Channel could be combined with its own digital weather network, 
NBC Weather Plus.  The Weather Channel's time-sensitive broadcasts and 
programming about hot-button issues on the environment have 
proved to be attractive to audiences and advertisers.  The Weather Channel's website attracts about 35 million 
unique users each month, Landmark has said. That puts it among 
the Web's 20-most-popular sites and the top destination for 
online weather, news and information.  (Editing by  Braden Reddall )