-- Small business optimism index up in July: survey
-- 
-- Tue Aug 14, 2007 7:53am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/08/14/businesspro-usa-economy-smallbusiness-dc-idUSN1335762520070814

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - Optimism among small businesses in 
the United States rose 1.6 points last month as firms said they 
planned to hire more workers than in June, a survey released on 
Tuesday showed. 

  The Index of Small Business Optimism rose in July to 97.6, 
the National Federation of Independent Business said in its 
monthly report.  While small business owners did some solid hiring in July, 
during the next three months 13 percent of those owners polled 
said they plan to create new jobs, an increase of one 
percentage point from the previous month, the group said.  Job creation plans were upbeat in all industry groups, the 
survey said, with the strongest seen in professional services, 
wholesale and manufacturing.  Taxes and the cost and availability of insurance were the 
leading business-related problems cited in the survey.  The hottest regions for hiring were in the East South 
Central and Mountain states, while the East North Central 
states were plagued by problems in the auto industry.  Credit markets have remained friendly to owners of small 
businesses as long as they needed credit to "support reasonable 
business activities," the group said.  NFIB said only 3 percent of the owners polled cited the 
cost and availability of credit as their number one business 
problem, far from the record 37 percent reached in 1982.  The cost of short-term loans has risen since the Federal 
Reserve started raising rates, but credit availability has not 
changed, NFIB said.  Twelve percent of the owners reported higher rates on 
short-term loans, unchanged from June and the lowest reading 
since 2004, the group said.  "Since small business loans typically re-price at five year 
intervals, there is a considerable lag between the time the Fed 
reports tighter lending standards for small business loans and 
owners actually reporting loans hard to get," the group said.  "Economic growth will be sub-par, but no 'R word' is in the 
minds of America's small businesses," said William Dunkleberg, 
chief economist for the group.  The results are based on 1,613 respondents to the July 
survey of a random sample of NFIB member firms surveyed through 
July 31.