-- Starbucks aims high for its consumer products brand
-- By  Daisuke Wakabayashi
-- Mon Aug 13, 2007 10:57pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/08/14/businesspro-starbucks-consumer-dc-idUSN1338271820070814

 

 SEATTLE  (Reuters) - Starbucks Corp. ( SBUX.O ) sees ample 
room for growth in selling Starbucks-branded products such as 
coffee beans, ice cream and chocolate in supermarkets and 
convenience stores, a company executive said on Monday. 

  Gerry Lopez, president of Starbucks' consumer products 
group, said the company is still far from maximizing its 
opportunities to sell the coffee chain's branded goods to 
outside retailers.  Lopez's challenge is to expand the Starbucks brand, already 
seen by many as ubiquitous, to areas outside of its stores 
without diluting a brand strong enough to drive people to pay a 
hefty premium for a cup of coffee.  The main opportunity, according to Lopez, comes from the 
sales of Starbucks coffee beans, or packaged coffee, to 
supermarkets where sales of premium coffee are growing at more 
than 10 percent a year in the face of flat to lower overall 
coffee sales.  "We are far from hitting the limit on this thing," said 
Lopez in an interview with Reuters. "Clearly, there is a lot of 
runway down there."  Starbucks sold 56 million lbs (25.4 million kg) of packaged 
coffee at supermarkets and other retailers last year. It sells 
packaged coffee with joint venture partner Kraft Foods Inc. 
KFT.N, accounting for about 4 percent of U.S. market share.  Packaged coffees account for about two-thirds of the 
consumer products group's revenue, which reported a 24 percent 
increase in net revenue to $87.1 million in the quarter ended 
July 1. The segment accounts for nearly 20 percent of 
Starbucks' total operating profit.  The coffee chain said mainstream U.S. coffee brands like 
Folgers, manufactured by Procter & Gamble ( PG.N ), and Maxwell 
House from Kraft account for about 50 percent of supermarket 
coffee sales.  However, as consumers become more educated about a product 
category like coffee or wine, they often consume more premium 
brands. Starbucks said it can sell its coffee beans at more 
than three times the price of mainstream brands.  "Given the option for quality, people will exercise it. We 
are proof of that," said Lopez.  In line with that strategy, Starbucks said it plans to 
start selling "Limited Reserve" coffees in U.S. supermarkets. 
It will offer bags of rare coffee beans from high-end farms in 
Asia, Latin America and Africa.