-- European Stocks Decline for Sixth Week Amid Slowdown
-- Adria Cimino
-- 2008-01-19T09:11:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-01-19/european-stocks-decline-for-sixth-week-amid-slowdown-update1-.html

          
          
             European stocks declined for a sixth
week after economic reports and earnings from the U.S. deepened
concern the world's largest economy is sliding into a recession.  
 Dexia SA (DEXB) , the biggest lender to local governments, and
 Commerzbank AG (CBK)  led financial shares lower. Hypo Real Estate
Holding AG had its biggest slump ever after the German
commercial property lender said pretax profit fell in 2007.
 Burberry (BRBY)  Group Plc, the maker of $3,100 metal-studded Knight
handbags, dropped after saying it may miss profit estimates.  
 The  Dow Jones Stoxx 600 Index (SXXP)  sank 4.7 percent to 327.53,
the biggest decline since the week ended July 27. The last time
the measure fell for six or more consecutive weeks was the
period ended Oct. 9, 1998.  
 ``We see the specter of the slowdown, with data from the
U.S. confirming that it's a strong one,'' said Alexandre Iatrides, who helps oversee about $7.3 billion at Richelieu
Finance in Paris. ``Now companies are lowering guidance. We're
worried about earnings. That's weighing on stocks.''  
 The Stoxx 600 is down 18 percent from a 6 1/2-year high
reached June 1 on concern a U.S. housing slump and credit-market
losses will curb economic expansion and slow profit growth.
Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Norway, Poland and Sweden have
extended their losses from highs reached last year to more than
20 percent, the common definition of a  bear market .  
 The Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank's manufacturing index
slumped to a six-year low, according to a data released Jan. 17.
Citigroup Inc., the largest U.S. bank, this week reported its
biggest loss ever and  Intel Corp ., the world's biggest
chipmaker, forecast sales that fell short of analysts'
estimates.  
 National Benchmarks  
 National benchmarks dropped in all of the 18 western
European markets.  Germany 's  DAX Index (DAX)  lost 5.2 percent, as did
 France 's CAC 40. The U.K.'s FTSE 100 sank 4.8 percent. The Stoxx
50 decreased 5.3 percent, and the  Euro Stoxx 50 (SX5E) , a measure for
the euro region, tumbled 5.5 percent.  
 Dexia (DX)  plummeted 18 percent. Fortis, Belgium's biggest
financial-services company, retreated 12 percent.  
 ``We are still avoiding the banks,'' said Stuart Fraser,
who helps manage about $42 billion at Brewin Dolphin Securities
Ltd. in  London . ``You generally want to avoid the very cyclical
names, those exposed to the economy.''  
 Hypo Real Estate plunged 34 percent, the worst performance
in the Stoxx 600. The company said Jan. 15 that full-year pretax
 profit  fell 27 percent to 890 million euros ($1.32 billion) and
plans to slash its 2007 dividend to 50 cents a share from 1.50
euros for 2006.  
 `Further Bad News'  
 Commerzbank retreated 16 percent on speculation it may
report further writedowns. Germany's second-biggest bank has
asset-backed securities totaling 19.9 billion euros, including
U.S. subprime investments and collateralized debt obligations,
according to a presentation from September.  
 A measure for banks in the Stoxx 600 fell 7.4 percent this
week, the biggest drop among the 18 industry groups. That was
the steepest decline since the week ended July 12, 2002.  
 ``We expect further bad news'' from financial companies,
said Christian Gattiker, head of equity markets at Bank Julius
Baer & Company Ltd. in Zurich. An improvement may start ``later
in this quarter, early next quarter.''  
 U.S. President  George W. Bush  said Jan. 18 that a
government plan to stimulate the economy should be about 1
percent of gross domestic product, or as much as $150 billion.  
 Burberry tumbled 15 percent. Meeting analysts' estimates
for full-year earnings before interest and taxes of 210 million
pounds ($411 million) ``looks a bit of a stretch,'' Chief
Financial Officer Stacey Cartwright said Jan. 15.  
 Basic Resources  
 A measure for  basic resources stocks  dropped 6.7 percent,
the third-worst performance among the Stoxx 600 industry groups,
as metals prices retreated. Copper, nickel and zinc fell this
week.  
 Vedanta Resources Plc,  India 's largest copper and zinc
producer, slid 15 percent. BHP Billiton Ltd., the world's
biggest mining company, declined 8.9 percent.  Anglo American
Plc (AAL) , the second-largest, dropped 10 percent.  
 An index for Stoxx 600 oil and gas stocks fell 6.6 percent
as crude oil declined 2.3 percent for the week in  New York .
 Total SA (FP) ,  Europe 's biggest oil refiner, lost 6.6 percent. SBM
Offshore NV, the world's largest supplier of deep-water oil
platforms, tumbled 17 percent.  
 Thirty of 41 analysts surveyed, or 73 percent, said  oil
prices  will decline through Jan. 25, the most bearish response
since Oct. 5.  
 Renewable Energy Corp. (REC)  plunged 27 percent. The Norwegian
maker of solar-power components said on Jan. 18 that it will
incur ``significant expansion costs'' to build a new factory in
 Singapore .  
 Solar Shares  
 Germany's  Solarworld AG (SWV)  and Q-Cells AG slid after Societe
Generale SA on Jan. 16 advised investors to sell the stocks.
Solarworld, the country's second-biggest solar company,
retreated 18 percent, as did Q-Cells, a maker of solar cells.  
 Alternative energy companies surged last year as oil prices
reached records and demand for alternatives increased. Societe
Generale analysts said solar shares may be ``overvalued''
because prices will fall on increasing supply.  
 IG Group Plc, which takes wagers on financial markets under
the IG Index name, dropped 18 percent. The company on Jan. 14
reported first-half expenses that exceeded some analysts'
estimates. IG also said annual expenses will increase by 2.5
million pounds a year after it opened Paris and Madrid offices.  
 Segro Plc (SGRO) , the U.K.'s largest owner of office and
industrial parks, rallied 17 percent, the best performance in
the Stoxx 600. British Land Co., the biggest developer in
London's main financial district, added 4.8 percent. The stocks
were named as top real-estate picks at JPMorgan Chase & Co. on
Jan. 16.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balduin Hesse at 
 bhesse2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        