-- Tribune Wins Approval to Pay Severance for Job Cuts
-- Steven Church
-- 2009-02-03T18:31:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-02-03/tribune-wins-approval-to-pay-severance-for-job-cuts-update2-.html

          
          
             Tribune Co., the newspaper company
taken private by real-estate billionaire  Sam Zell , won court
permission to pay employees severance as it cuts jobs while
reorganizing in bankruptcy.  
 Workers will be given two weeks of pay for the first year
of service and one week for every year beyond that, Tribune said
in court papers. Company attorney Kevin Lantry declined to say
how many of Tribune’s almost 14,000 workers it plans to fire.  
 “They have a sense of what they need to do,” said
attorney Jay Teitelbaum, who represents 80 former employees of
Times Mirror Co., which Tribune bought in 2000. “But you can’t
cut yourself into profitability.”  
 Tribune’s Los Angeles Times newspaper announced Jan. 30
that it will cut 10 percent of its 3,000 employees, eliminate a
standalone local news section and make other changes to the
newspaper. Tribune, the Chicago-based owner of the Times, the
 Chicago  Tribune and the Chicago Cubs baseball team, filed for
bankruptcy in December, blaming a high debt load and a drop in
advertising.  
 Zell is trying to sell the Cubs to reduce debt. He entered
into exclusive talks on the sale with Tom Ricketts, chairman of
Incapital LLC, last month.  
 Newspapers have lost subscribers and ad revenue as the
economy worsens and readers move to the Internet.  
 Newspaper Cuts  
 Dallas Morning News publisher A.H. Belo Corp. said Jan. 30
that it plans to cut 500 jobs, roughly one in every seven
positions. The Minneapolis Star Tribune sought court protection
on Jan. 16, less than two years after its sale to private-equity
firm Avista Capital Partners.  
 Journal Register Co. and Sun-Times Media Group Inc. were
delisted from the  New York  Stock Exchange last year. Journal
Register hired a restructuring specialist in July and halted
interest payments to conserve cash.  
 Tribune has said it plans to restructure $13 billion in
debt as part of its reorganization. The company hasn’t publicly
said how it will reorganize, or what it will look like once it
exits bankruptcy.  
 Teitelbaum said his clients, including former Times Mirror 
Chief Executive Officer Mark Willes and former Chairman Robert Erburu, have seen their retirement savings plummet and are
concerned that they may lose more as creditors of Tribune.
Willes is owed $11.2 million and Erburu and other former Times
Mirror executives are owed more than $9 million combined.  
 “These people need income, they need cash, they don’t need
equity in a reorganized entity,” Teitelbaum said.  
 The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of  Delaware  (Wilmington)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        