-- CSN Boosts Wheeling-Pittsburg Bid to Rival Esmark
-- Choy Leng Yeong
-- 2006-11-14T23:25:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-11-14/csn-boosts-wheeling-pittsburg-bid-to-rival-esmark-update5-.html

          
          
             Cia. Siderurgica Nacional,  Brazil 's
third-biggest steelmaker, sweetened its merger proposal for
Wheeling-Pittsburgh Corp. to counter an opposing hostile bid
from Esmark Inc. and objections from some investors.  
 CSN said it will pay $50 million to the combined company,
reduce its convertible debt and increase a payout on depositary
shares to $32 from $30. Investors can back the deal by re-electing Wheeling-Pittsburgh directors at the annual meeting
Nov. 17, Rio De Janeiro-based CSN said today in a statement.  
 CSN Chief Executive Officer Benjamin Steinbruch has sought
to buy mills in the U.S. and Europe to produce finished steel
products that are more profitable because they avoid import
tariffs. Wheeling-Pittsburgh, which has a market value of $283
million, said today its board endorsed the new CSN bid.  
 ``We have addressed each aspect of offer, and have improved
each component significantly,'' Marcos Lutz, CSN managing
director for infrastructure and energy, said in the statement.
``Wheeling-Pittsburg shareholders will have more hard value,
more options, more control and a stronger combined company.''  
 Shares of Wheeling, West Virginia-based Wheeling-Pittsburgh, which has rejected an unsolicited proposal by steel
distributor Esmark, rose 74 cents, or 4.1 percent, to $18.98 in
Nasdaq trading. The stock has more than doubled in the past
year. CSN rose 1.5 reais, or 2.2 percent, to 68.9 reais in Sao
Paulo.  
 Esmark Bid  
 Esmark Chairman and Chief Executive Officer James P.
Bouchard said his Chicago-based company has no plans to counter
with a higher offer.  
 ``Obviously with our $20-per-share offer, we're not going
to increase it,'' Bouchard said in an interview. He estimated
the value of CSN's bid at $17.50 today, up from its previous
offer of $16.  
 ``We still have a superior offer on the table,'' Bouchard
said. ``We talked to shareholders today. The shareholders view
this offer as less than our offer, so the votes are still
staying with us.''  
 Esmark has the support of the Wheeling-Pittsburgh union,
which owns about 14.7 percent of the company, Bouchard said.  
 Hedge-fund manager Jeffrey Gendell, who owns about 9.5
percent of Wheeling-Pittsburgh, has said he favors an Esmark
deal. A union representing workers at Wheeling-Pittsburgh filed
a grievance last week to block the CSN transaction.  
 Boost Capacity  
 Merging North American operations with Wheeling-Pittsburgh,
which emerged from bankruptcy in 2003, would increase CSN's
output capacity for rolled products in the U.S. fourfold from
about 1 million tons at a Terre Haute, Indiana-based mill.  
 ``The proposed combination of Wheeling-Pittsburgh with
CSN's North American assets creates a strong company that is
uniquely positioned to be successful in the U.S.,'' Wheeling-Pittsburgh Chief Executive Officer James G. Bradley said today
in a statement. ``I believe, as does our Board of Directors,
that CSN is the right partner for our shareholders, our company,
our employees and our steel communities.''  
 Gendell declined to comment. Lutz of CSN didn't immediately
return calls.  
 CSN in August agreed to buy 49.5 percent of Wheeling-Pittsburgh and invest $225 million of cash in a new company.
Under the original proposal, CSN would have the option to
convert the investment into 11.8 million shares in three years,
boosting its stake to about 65 percent.  
 Wheeling-Pittsburgh earlier this month reported a third-quarter profit of $17 million on higher steel prices after a
year-earlier loss. The company forecast a loss in the fourth
quarter because of higher imports and slumping demand.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Caminada in Sao Paulo at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net ;
Choy Leng Yeong in Seattle at 
 clyeong@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        