-- Temasek Acted in Accordance to Thai Laws on Shin
-- Chan Sue Ling
-- 2006-11-14T07:17:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-11-14/temasek-acted-in-accordance-to-thai-laws-on-shin-update1-.html

          
          
             Singapore  said the purchase of
Thailand's Shin Corp. by investors led by Temasek Holdings Pte
was in accordance with the laws of the kingdom.  
 ``Temasek undertook appropriate due diligence to ensure that
it was in compliance with Thai laws and regulations,'' and ``it
was not a reckless investment,'' Tharman Shanmugaratnam,
Singapore's second minister for finance, said in parliament today.
The purchase ``was a clean transaction.''  
 Probes into the sale of Shin to a group led by Temasek, a
Singapore state-owned investment company, earlier this year have
scared off investors, who are concerned long-practiced ownership
structures using Thai nominees will be declared illegitimate by
the country's government, which was appointed after a coup in
September.  
 Thailand  will amend foreign investment and nominee laws in
about 60 days and stop ``turning a blind eye'' to deals that may
contravene rules, the country's Commerce Minister Krirk-krai
Jirapaet said Nov. 10.  
 Temasek and Thai nominee companies bought 96 percent of Shin,
owner of Thailand's biggest mobile-phone company, from investors,
including the family of former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra.
The deal exacerbated protests and a political stalemate in
Thailand that led to Thaksin's ouster in a coup in September.  
 Shanmugaratnam said the government isn't in favor of
intervening in any way or setting guidelines when it comes to
state-owned companies such as Temasek and Government of Singapore
Investment Corp. investing abroad.  
 ``Temasek made its own commercial decision,'' Shanmugaratnam
said. ``What matters to the government is that Temasek should
have a good governance framework, rigorous decision making
processes and regular performance evaluation. I can assure the
house that these are in place.''  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Sue Ling at   slchan@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        