-- Macquarie Said to Lure Top-Ranked Nomura China Research Analyst Jiong Shao
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-30T06:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/macquarie-said-to-lure-top-ranked-nomura-china-research-analyst-jiong-shao.html

          
          
             Macquarie Group Ltd., Australia’s
biggest investment bank, named  Jiong Shao  from Nomura Holdings
Inc. as its new head of Hong Kong and China research, according
to three Macquarie officials familiar with the hiring.  
 Shao, who was the top-ranked analyst for industrials
research at Nomura, will be based in Hong Kong and cover telecom
companies among other industries, the officials said, who
declined to be identified because they aren’t authorized to
speak. Nomura was ranked first in Institutional Investor
magazine’s inaugural All-China Research Team survey this year.  
 Macquarie is among banks hired to arrange the Hong Kong
portion of the initial public offering of Agricultural Bank of
China Ltd. The Chinese bank yesterday sold more stock in Hong
Kong, in addition to raising $19.2 billion in Shanghai and Hong
Kong, to take the IPO closer to becoming the world’s largest.  
 “There is a premium for real talent in our business,” said
 Sandy Mehta , chief investment officer for Value Investment
Principals in Hong Kong. “It further signals that the Great
Recession of 2008 is behind us.”  
 At Nomura, Shao covered Chinese railway, power equipment
and heavy industrial companies. He had a “buy” recommendation
for the Hong Kong shares of China South Locomotive and Rolling
Stock Corp. from Nov. 18, 2008 until June 3, 2010, during which
the stock gained 67 percent compared with a 53 percent climb for
the Hang Seng Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Thomas Bookout , associate director of equity sales at
Macquarie, is scheduled to move to Shanghai from Taipei to be
the Australian bank’s chief representative in the Chinese city,
the officials said. Bookout declined to comment.  
 China Markets  
 “We don’t comment on staff movements,” said  Fiona McDonald , Macquarie’s Singapore-based spokeswoman.  Vanessa Wall ,
a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for Nomura, declined to comment.  
 Chinese stocks, the worst performers in Asia this year,
have rebounded this month on speculation the government will
ease property curbs and allow more lending to offset a slowdown
in economic growth. The Shanghai Composite Index has rallied 9.8
percent in July, the biggest monthly gain in a year.  
 The Australian bank also said today its three largest units
are set to report lower earnings as markets falter and deals
dwindle. The outlook reverses Macquarie’s April forecast that
all its businesses were likely to perform better in the year to
March 31, 2011. Unless conditions improve, the advisory,
securities, fixed income and commodities divisions, accounting
for more than two-thirds of group income, won’t match last
year’s results, Chief Executive  Nicholas Moore  said.  
 -- Allen Wan  in Shanghai. With assistance from  Angus Whitley  in
Sydney, Shiyin Chen in Singapore. Editors:  Linus Chua ,  Richard Frost   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allen Wan  in Shanghai at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        