-- Madoff Trustee Sues Family Members' Companies to Get Funds for Investors
-- Joel Rosenblatt
-- 2010-07-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/madoff-trustee-sues-family-members-companies-to-get-funds-for-investors.html

          
          
             Companies owned by members of
 Bernard Madoff ’s family should pay tens of millions of dollars
to help victim’s of his Ponzi scheme, the trustee recovering
funds for investors said in three lawsuits.  
 Madoff’s family members used the money to fund their
personal business ventures, said trustee  Irving H. Picard  in the
complaints filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York.
The companies include a hedge fund, a biotechnology company,
energy companies, and Primex Holdings LLC, a company designed to
replicate an auction process, according to the filings.  
 “Foremost among the recipients of Madoff’s gifts of
customer funds were his closest family members, including his
wife  Ruth Madoff , his brother Peter, his two sons Andrew and
Mark, and his niece Shana,” Picard said in one of the
complaints.  
 In addition to using almost $250 million of customer funds
from the fraud at Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC to
fund their lavish lifestyles, Picard said in the filings that he
seeks to recover millions funneled from BLMIS to finance the
family members’ personal business ventures.  
 Primex Holdings LLC, a joint venture between Madoff
Securities and several large brokerages designed to replicate
the auction process on the New York Stock Exchange, is named as
a defendant in one of the complaints filed yesterday.  
 4,900 Accounts  
 Madoff, 72, is serving a 150-year term in federal prison in
Butner, North Carolina, after pleading guilty to orchestrating
history’s biggest Ponzi scheme. When Madoff was arrested in
December 2008, account statements showed $65 billion in
nonexistent client investments in 4,900 accounts, according to
Picard. Investors lost about $20 billion in principal.  
 Picard, who has so far recovered $1.5 billion for Madoff’s
victims and other creditors, didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment after regular business hours.  
 Martin Flumenbaum , an attorney who has represented Madoff’s
sons in earlier cases, and  Peter Chavkin , a lawyer for Ruth
Madoff, didn’t immediately return calls after business hours
yesterday. Charles Spada, a lawyer for  Peter Madoff , also didn’t
immediately return a call.  
 One of the adversary cases is Irving H. Picard v. Madoff
Family LLC, 10-03485, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan). The Madoff bankruptcy case is In re
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 09-11893, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        