-- Lafarge, HeidelbergCement Cut Spending, Payrolls to Rescue Credit Ratings
-- Richard Weiss
-- 2010-07-30T12:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/lafarge-heidelbergcement-cut-spending-payrolls-to-rescue-credit-ratings.html

          
          
             Lafarge SA , the world’s largest
cement maker, and  HeidelbegCement AG  outlined 500 million euros
($650 million) of cost cuts aimed at rescuing their credit
ratings from junk status.  
 Lafarge today announced an additional 200 million euros in
savings for next year as well as extra asset sales to make good
on a pledge to reduce debt and retain an investment-grade
 rating . HeidelbergCement said it will cut as many as 350 jobs in
North America to help save 300 million euros, though won’t be in
shape to shake off its junk rating this year.  
 “HeidelbergCement set their targets too high in the first
place and no-one really believed they could reach that goal this
year,” said  Jochen Schlachter , a credit analyst at UniCredit in
Munich. “Lafarge is at the brink of getting downgraded to junk.
It will all depend on how performance and cash flow recovers.”  
 The credit metrics of both companies are clearly in sub-
investment grade territory at the moment, Schlachter said.
HeidelbergCement and Lafarge each made purchases of at least $15
billion leading up to the financial crisis. Attempts to cut
budget deficits could heighten the need to make disposals.  
 Moody’s Investors Service and Standard and Poor’s have said
they may cut Lafarge’s credit rating, which is one notch above
speculative grade. Its debt was little changed in the second
quarter from a year earlier at 15.2 billion euros, inflated by
the euro’s drop. Net debt at its German rival, rated three
notches below investment grade at Moody’s and S&P, rose to 9.07
billion euros from 8.96 billion euros on March 31.  
 Interest Burden  
 A cut in Lafarge’s debt to junk would increase interest
payments by about 55 million euros on an annual basis because of
“step-up” clauses on some of its bonds, Chief Financial
Officer  Jean-Jacques Gauthier  said on a call. “We are looking
at progressively and quickly reducing the debt situation.”  
 The French cement maker pared its outlook for demand,
saying markets will expand 3 percent at best in volume terms
this year, down from as much as 5 percent. The worst case
scenario is a 1 percent fall, as the economic outlook is still
“uncertain.”  
 The recovery’s strength and the impact of budget-deficit
reduction on infrastructure spending are still unclear,
HeidelbergCement Chief Executive Officer  Bernd Scheifele  said.
Scheifele abandoned a goal to get credit metrics in shape for an
eventual move to investment grade this year.  
 Inevitable Downgrade  
 “With the guidance lowered on volumes it seems difficult
for Lafarge to avoid the rating downgrade to high-yield,” said
 Caroline Brugere , an analyst at Credit Agricole CIB in Paris, in
a note to investors. “However the amount of further asset sales
needs to be confirmed.”  
 Lafarge is also seeking to cut costs by more than a
previous goal of 200 million euros in 2010. Investment next year
will be limited to 1 billion euros, down from 1.3 billion euros
this year, Chief Executive Officer Bruno  Lafont  said.  
 Lafont aims to beat a previous goal of as much as 500
million euros of asset sales this year, and said additional
divestments make take place next year. The company in 2007 paid
$15 billion for Orascom Construction’s rival operations.  
 Lafarge, whose Baa3 rating is under review at Moody’s
Investors Service, slumped 3.8 percent to 41.83 euros in Paris
trading as of 10:26 a.m. local time. The decline ranked the
cement maker today’s seventh worst performer on the Dow Jones
Stoxx 600 index.  
 Divestments by Lafarge so far total 350 million euros.
Lafont, on a call, declined to specify which additional assets
could be put up for sale. He maintained guidance that profit
will rise and borrowings will fall this year.  
 HeildelbergCement remains committed to reaching an operating
profit of about 3 billion euros and lowering net debt to between
7.5 billion euros and 8 billion euros as “mid-cycle targets,”
Chief Financial Officer  Lorenz Naeger  said today. It has had a
junk rating since October 2008 in part due to debt amassed by
the takeover of Hanson in 2007.  
 The Heidelberg-based cement maker is rated BB- at S&P and
Ba3 at Moody’s, both three levels below investment grade.  
 “We maintain a cautious stance towards the price situation
for cement producers,” said Paris-based Natixis analysts  Rafic El Haddad  and  Gregoire Thibault  in a research note today. Debt
“is likely to continue to drag on the share.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francois de Beaupuy  in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        