-- Thai Stocks to Advance 5% to Be Asia's Next Bull Market, Julius Baer Says
-- Kristine Aquino
-- 2010-07-30T02:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/thai-stocks-to-advance-5-to-be-asia-s-next-bull-market-julius-baer-says.html

          
          
             Thai stocks may rise at least 5
percent to become Asia’s second bull market this year amid a
return of manufacturing and investments, according to Bank
Julius Baer & Co.  
 Thailand is becoming more attractive to manufacturers with
China turning more “domestic demand-oriented,” said
 Venkatraman Anantha-Nageswaran , global chief investment officer
at Julius Baer, which oversees $140 billion of assets.
Foreigners, who sold a net $359.5 million of Thai stocks this
year, the only one among nine markets tracked by Bloomberg to
record outflows, are starting to buy again.  
 “Thailand is a market we feel one should really not
ignore, because it has got some pockets of manufacturing
strength,” Anantha-Nageswaran said in an interview in Singapore
yesterday. “It has far better infrastructure and is more
internationally connected” than other Asian emerging markets.  
 The benchmark  SET Index  is the second-best performer among
Asia’s 10 biggest stock markets after Indonesia this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The measure has climbed
more than 18 percent from its May 25 low following the slump in
global stocks amid the European debt crisis, close to the 20
percent increase that investors define as a bull market.  
 The SET rose 0.1 percent to 854.59 yesterday, advancing for
a sixth day, the longest stretch of gains in more than four
months, data compiled by Bloomberg showed. The index may cap its
gains at the 900 level, Anantha-Nageswaran said. “It will
probably cross the criteria for a bull market, but it’s not
likely to go far,” he said.  
 SET’s Gain  
 The  SET  climbed 15 percent since Anantha-Nageswaran advised
investors on May 24 to add Thai stocks, compared with a 6.6
percent gain in the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index . Indonesia’s  Jakarta
Composite index  surged 23 percent since its May 25 low
yesterday, the first among Asia’s 10 biggest markets to enter a
bull market since the debt crisis.  
 Tisco Securities Co., which has a tie-up with Deutsche Bank
AG on research in Thailand, said this week it expects the SET to
advance to 1,000 in 12 months.  
 Foreigners bought 2.83 billion baht ($88 million) of Thai
stocks than they sold on July 23, the highest level since April
7, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Overseas investors bought more shares even as Prime
Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  tightened security this week in
Bangkok, a city already under emergency rule, after a bomb
killed one person and injured 10 others hours after polls closed
in the first by-election since anti-government demonstrations.
The explosion marked the first violence since May 19, when a
military assault to end the protests sparked rioting in Bangkok.  
 Not Pulled Back  
 “Investors expect these to happen,” Anantha-Nageswaran
said. “Unless it’s a very extreme event, I don’t think they’re
going to be pulled back in their enthusiasm by these blasts.”  
 A grenade also exploded at 1 a.m. in Bangkok in an area
where the protesters battled troops earlier this year, wounding
one person, the police said.  
 The return of foreigners comes after Thai investors drove
the benchmark index beyond a two-year high on confidence in
earnings growth,  Charamporn Jotikasthira , president of the  Stock
Exchange of Thailand  said in a July 22 interview. Locals have
 offset  waning overseas demand in the first half following the
nation’s worst political clash in two decades, he said.  
 Overseas investors continued to add more Thai stocks this
week, with 3.74 billion baht of net inflows in the first three
trading days, the data showed. The markets were closed for a
holiday on July 26.  
 ‘See the Light’  
 “After the crisis, they are beginning to see the light,”
said  Prapas Tonpibulsak , chief investment officer at Bangkok-
based Ayudhya Fund Management Co., which manages about $2.2
billion of assets. “Earlier this year, foreign investors didn’t
see any solution for Thailand in the medium and long-term.”  
 The central bank said July 23 it expects the economy to
expand the most in at least seven years in 2010 as an export
rebound limited the impact from the political clash that left at
least 89 people dead.  Gross domestic product  may expand 6.5
percent to 7.5 percent, compared with an April forecast for
growth of 4.3 percent to 5.8 percent.  
 Exports climbed to a  record $18.04 billion  in June, helped
by the end of the riots and a recovery in the global economy.
Automakers  Ford Motor Co. , General Motors Co. and Mitsubishi
Motors Corp. all announced plans to build factories in Thailand
in the past month.  
 “With 74 million people and demographics still in their
favor, and some manufacturing experience and know-how, Thailand
can still give the newcomers in the game of export manufacturing
such as Vietnam and Cambodia a run for their money,” Julius
Baer’s Anantha-Nageswaran said.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Kristine Aquino  in Singapore at 
 kaquino@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        