-- Thailand's Industrial Production Growth Accelerates Amid Record Shipments
-- Suttinee Yuvejwattana
-- 2010-07-30T07:48:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/thailand-s-industrial-production-growth-accelerates-amid-record-shipments.html

          
          
             Thailand’s  industrial production 
growth accelerated in June as exports surged to a record level,
adding to signs of Asia’s resilience to the threat of weaker
demand from Europe.  
 Manufacturing output rose 21.3 percent from a year earlier,
after a revised 17.5 percent gain in May, the Bank of Thailand
said today. The median estimate of 16 economists in a Bloomberg
News  survey  was for an 18.5 percent increase.  
 The central bank last week raised its forecast for Thai
economic growth this year to as much as 7.5 percent, which would
be the strongest pace since 1995. A rebound in overseas sales
has limited the impact from deadly political protests,
supporting revenue at companies including  Siam Cement Pcl , which
is targeting 20 percent to 25 percent sales growth this year.  
 “The capacity utilization and production momentum in the
export-oriented sectors are quite strong,” said  Rahul Bajoria ,
an economist at Barclays Capital in Singapore. “The momentum is
likely to slow down in the second half as global growth
indicators moderate, but will remain sticky. We see upside risks
to our 6 percent growth target in 2010.”  
 The finance ministry said yesterday it expects Southeast
Asia’s largest economy after Indonesia to grow 8 percent in the
second quarter, even after clashes between state troops and
anti-government protesters in April and May claimed 89 lives in
the nation’s worst political violence in almost two decades.  
 Rate Increase  
 The central bank on July 14 raised its  benchmark interest
rate  for the first time in almost two years to 1.5 percent,
joining neighbors from Malaysia to India in boosting borrowing
costs as the region’s economic recovery strengthened.  
 South Korea’s industrial output rose more than forecast in
June, expanding 16.9 percent from a year earlier, a report
showed today.  
 Thailand’s  exports  jumped 47.1 percent in June from a year
earlier to a record $17.9 billion, the central bank said today.
 Imports  rose 38.3 percent last month, and the country had a
 trade  surplus of $2.5 billion in June, compared with a $2.3
billion surplus the previous month.  
 “The economy has resumed its growth momentum after a
slowdown in May during the political unrest,” Mathee
Supapongse, the central bank’s director for domestic economy,
said at a news conference today. “If exports continue to do
well, investment, particularly in auto and electronics sectors,
should maintain good growth.”  
 Thailand recorded a  current-account  surplus of $681 million
last month, from a $1.04 billion surplus in May. The measure
comprises the difference between exports and imports of goods
and services, investment income and remittances. Trade makes up
about 70 percent of the current account, and tourism contributes
most of the service industry’s 30 percent component.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        