-- Takeover Spree May Point to Second-Half Pickup in M&A
-- Brett Foley
-- 2010-07-30T18:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/takeover-spree-may-point-to-second-half-pickup-as-volume-tops-1-trillion.html

          
          
             A spate of mergers and acquisitions
during the past two weeks may signal the start of a comeback for
global dealmaking in the second half of 2010.  
 There have been 787 announced deals since July 19 with a
total disclosed value of $86.4 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The surge pushed global deal volume past
the $1 trillion mark for the year, more than a 10 percent
increase over the first seven months of 2009.  
 M&A soured in the first half, with the biggest takeover of
2010 collapsing and stock and credit markets shaken by concern
that  Europe ’s debt crisis would endanger a global economic
recovery. Companies are now getting more confident as they
increasingly hoard cash and borrowing costs fall, according to
some dealmakers.  
 “While boards have been reluctant to pull the trigger,
they’re getting more comfortable with the economic environment
and so there may be a pickup,” said Wilhelm Schulz, head of
European M&A at  Citigroup Inc. (C)   
 One obstacle to transactions may be U.S. growth, which
slowed to a 2.4 percent annual rate in the second quarter,
according to Commerce Department figures released today.  
 ‘Better Flow’  
 The outlook in Europe is improving with economic confidence
rising to the highest level in more than two years in July and
German unemployment declining for a 13th month. All but seven of
Europe’s 91 biggest banks passed regulators’ stress tests last
week.  
 “We are clearly seeing better deal flow in the second
half,” said Raju Shukla, head of Barclays Capital  India , in a
telephone interview from Hong Kong. “There were market hiccups
due to the European crisis, which are now fading.”  
 July was marked by London-based  BP Plc (BP/) ’s announcement that
it plans to dispose of as much as $30 billion in assets in the
next 18 months to raise cash to meet the costs of the Gulf of
Mexico oil spill. Houston-based  Apache Corp. (APA) ’s $7 billion
purchase of oil and gas fields in the U.S.,  Canada  and  Egypt 
from Europe’s largest oil producer by volume was among the
biggest deals this month.  
 In telecommunications, one purchase was agreed this week
following months of wrangling over price, and the transaction
spawned another major takeover.  
 Telefonica SA (TEF)  on July 28 agreed to pay 7.5 billion euros
($9.76 billion) in cash for Portugal Telecom SGPS SA’s stake in
Vivo Participacoes SA, their 50-50 venture that controls
 Brazil ’s largest wireless operator. Telefonica made its first
offer in May, two sweetened offers were rejected, and the
successful bid was 32 percent higher.  
 System Backlog  
 Portugal Telecom didn’t want to relinquish the Vivo stake
without securing another fast-growing business, so the same day
the Lisbon-based company announced it would pay 8.44 billion
reais ($4.8 billion) for a 22.4 percent stake in Brazil’s
Telemar Norte Leste SA, known as Oi.  
 “There has been a well-publicized backlog in the system
for some time and it seems like some of those transactions are
finally being squeezed out of the pipeline,” said Scott Moeller, a professor at Cass Business School in London and a
former investment banker at Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan Stanley.  
 More deals may be agreed in the coming weeks. Sanofi-
Aventis SA has its board’s support to offer as much as $70 a
share, or $18.7 billion, for Genzyme Corp., said three people
with knowledge of the situation. A group led by Hong Kong
billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings
Ltd. offered to buy Electricite de France SA’s U.K. power
networks unit for 5.8 billion pounds ($9.1 billion), according
to a filing today to the Hong Kong stock exchange.  
 ‘Still Worried’  
 “This deal is obviously very large, but we should be
cautious in reading too much into it,” said Shaheryar Chishty,
global head of industrials investment banking at Nomura Holdings
Inc. in Hong Kong. “I don’t think this is a signal for broad-
based, increased risk-taking across Asia. Decision makers are
still worried about the sustainability of economic recovery and
the volatility in the capital markets.”  
 Some M&A bankers say the recent burst in deals may be
partly a seasonal phenomenon.  
 “July is normally a busy month because many companies try
to push transactions through before the holiday period, but,
regardless, there has been an improvement in sentiment,
especially as we have seen a lot of companies reporting good
earnings,” said Giuseppe Monarchi, head of Europe, Middle East
and Africa M&A for  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   
 Companies “seem to be in better shape than many people had
expected,” Monarchi said. “This clearly bodes well for M&A
activity.”  
 Boom Years  
 Deal volume is still slow compared with the boom years of
2006 and 2007, when $3.51 trillion and $4.02 trillion of deals
were announced, respectively, according to Bloomberg data. Those
levels won’t be reached anytime soon, dealmakers said.  
 London-based  Prudential Plc (PRU) ’s $35.5 billion agreement in
March to buy  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s AIA unit
unraveled in the second quarter. That contributed to a 2 percent
decline in global takeovers to $872.9 billion from $891.7
billion in the first half of 2009, according to Bloomberg data.  
 “It is a confidence game and CEOs have not been that
willing to stick their necks out, resulting in a pretty flat
first half,” said Moeller. “We obviously won’t be back to
anything close to 2007 levels for a while.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in  London  at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Jon Erlichman reports on the latest breaking news and top stories in today's Business Briefs. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
