-- Alcatel-Lucent Confirms 2010 Outlook After Second-Quarter Loss
-- Matthew Campbell
-- 2010-07-30T16:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/alcatel-lucent-reports-a-wider-than-estimated-loss-confirms-2010-outlook.html

          
          
             Alcatel-Lucent SA , France’s largest
telecommunications equipment maker, confirmed full-year margin
targets after posting an operating profit in the second quarter.  
 The shares  surged  11 percent in Paris trading, the biggest
gain since Aug. 26 last year. Alcatel, which reported a net loss
wider than analysts expected, had an adjusted operating profit
of 28 million euros ($36.6 million), reversing a 62 million-euro
loss in the year-earlier period.  
 Alcatel delivered a “solid set of results with steady
sales recovery and positive operating margins,”  Sebastien Sztabowicz , an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in Paris, wrote
in a note to clients. “Alcatel-Lucent dramatically benefited
from its large U.S. clients.”  
 Chief Executive Officer  Ben Verwaayen  is betting network
investments by phone operators to accommodate application-rich
devices such as  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone will help Alcatel return to
profit. The company has lost money in all but two quarters since
the 2006 merger of Alcatel and Lucent Technologies, including a
515 million-euro loss in this year’s first quarter that the CEO
blamed partly on component shortages.  
 Alcatel and European rivals  Ericsson AB  and Nokia Siemens
Networks are competing with Chinese companies including Huawei
Technologies Co. to roll out so-called fourth-generation
wireless networks. Alcatel is supplying the technology to  AT&T
Inc.  and  Verizon Communications Inc.   
 ‘Not Over’  
 Alcatel rose 22.9 cents to 2.297 euros in Paris, giving the
company a market value of 5.3 billion euros. The company’s
shares have fallen 3.6 percent this year.  
 In the latest quarter, Alcatel posted a net loss of 184
million euros, compared with a profit of 14 million euros a year
earlier. Analysts had predicted a loss of 146.2 million euros.  
 Alcatel’s sales fell 2.4 percent in the second quarter to
3.81 billion euros, including a 3.4 percent decline in the
networks segment, the company said. North American revenue
climbed 23.9 percent to 1.49 billion euros, while Asia-Pacific
sales plunged 25.6 percent to 641 million euros.  
 Verwaayen said the shortage of components such as
semiconductors that power network equipment, which dogged the
company in the first quarter, is continuing.  
 “It’s not over yet, and you can see that in the overall
industry,” he told reporters today in a conference call. “The
components industry will not be able to solve this issue within
a 90-day period.”  
 Competitors and chip manufacturers have signalled the
shortages. Demand for chips is “very, very strong and we and
our competitors are not always able to serve all of the
demand,”  STMicroelectronics NV  CEO  Carlo Bozotti  said last
week.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Chief Executive Officer Ben Verwaayen is betting network investments by phone operators to accommodate application-rich  devices such as Apple Inc.’s iPhone will help Alcatel return to profit. Photographer: Xabier Mikel Laburu/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
