-- Amundi Boosts Indonesia Debt Holdings as Ratings Approach Investment Grade
-- David Yong
-- 2010-07-30T01:48:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/amundi-boosts-indonesia-debt-holdings-as-ratings-approach-investment-grade.html

          
          
             Indonesia’s bonds, Asia’s best
performers this year and last, may lead regional gains in the
coming 12 months as an improving economy and rising commodity
exports help the nation win investment-grade debt ratings,
Amundi Singapore Ltd. said.  
 Fitch Ratings upgraded Indonesia in January and Standard &
Poor’s followed suit in March. Moody’s Investors Service on June
21 raised the outlook on its grade to “positive,” citing
strengthening demand in Southeast Asia’s biggest economy. S&P
and Moody’s rank Indonesia two levels below investment grade,
while Fitch awarded the highest of the so-called junk ratings.  
 “We are very positive on Indonesia’s local and external
debt, which is one of the bigger bets within our investments in
Asian sovereign debt,”  Philippe Jauer , chief investment officer
of Amundi Singapore, said yesterday in an interview. “We should
see Indonesia as an investment-grade country in the next 12 to
18 months.”  
 South Korea and India have also won ratings upgrades this
year as Asia led the recovery from a global recession and Jauer
predicts improving creditworthiness will remain a theme for the
region. Concern some European nations will struggle to pay their
debts led to downgrades for Greece, Portugal and Spain this year,
while Moody’s in May said the U.S. may lose its top grade unless
more is done to trim the budget deficit.  
 Leading Gains  
 Indonesia’s local-currency bonds have handed investors
returns of 15 percent this year and 22 percent in 2009, the best
performances among HSBC Holdings Plc indexes tracking Asia’s 10
largest economies excluding Japan. Its dollar-denominated debt
is leading gains this year with a 13 percent return and last
year’s advance of 45 percent was second only to India, based on
separate benchmarks compiled by Europe’s largest bank.  
 Indonesia, the world’s biggest producer of thermal coal and
palm oil, is benefiting from large capital inflows and
strengthening demand for raw materials in China, said Jauer, who
has a third of the $4 billion of fixed-income assets he oversees
invested in Asia. He predicts the rupiah has scope to appreciate
further after gains of 4.9 percent so far this year and 16
percent in 2009.  
 Economic growth in Indonesia is forecast to accelerate to 6
percent in the second half of this year from 5.8 percent in the
six months ended June, the finance ministry said in a statement
on July 26. The economy has expanded  every year  since 1998,
uninterrupted even as the global financial crisis tipped
neighboring Malaysia and Singapore into recessions.  
 Budget Deficit  
 The nation’s budget deficit was equivalent to 1.6 percent
of gross domestic product last year, compared with 13.6 percent
for Greece and 11.2 percent for Spain. The shortfall in the U.S.
was 9.9 percent of GDP in the fiscal year ended Sept. 30.  
 The country’s 5.875 percent dollar-denominated note due
March 2020 has returned 15.3 percent to investors since the
securities were sold in January. That’s about double the 7.9
percent gain in the  Asia Dollar Bond Index  compiled by HSBC, a
benchmark used by Amundi to gauge the performance of its
foreign-currency bond investments.  
 The bonds yielded 4.41 percent late yesterday, 148 basis
points more than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries. The spread
was 228 basis points when the securities were issued.  
 Amundi, created in December from the merger of Societe
Generale SA and Credit Agricole SA’s asset-management units,
looked after $927 billion of assets as of March 31, including
more than $600 billion of bonds.  
 Singapore, Hong Kong  
 In addition to Indonesia’s dollar-denominated debt, Jauer
said he is buying local-currency bonds sold by Singapore’s real-
estate developers and quasi-government bonds in Hong Kong
because of the strength of their balance sheets and the
economies they operate in. He also likes dollar bonds sold by
South Korea’s banks, saying yields are excessive compared with
U.S. corporate debt.  
 “Singapore has proven to be quite resilient during the
global crisis and the Singapore dollar offers good value,” he
said. The currency has strengthened2.7 percent this year to
S$1.3656 per dollar and Jauer said there’s scope for further
appreciation to counter  inflation  pressures as property and
vehicle prices climb.  
 Among Asia’s investment-grade corporate bonds rated by S&P,
none from Asia have defaulted in any of the last 11 years, the
ratings company said in a  note  published in May. Last year’s
default rate was 0.33 percent in the U.S. and 0.59 percent
across emerging markets, the report said.  
 Asia’s investment-grade corporate bonds yielded  226 basis
points  more than Treasuries yesterday, according to an index
compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co., versus this year’s low of 167
basis points in April. For similar-rated notes in the U.S., the
spread was  163 basis points  on July 27 versus 127 in mid-April.  
 “Asian spreads are still wider than those for U.S.
companies,” he said. “There’s a valuation gap, given that
Asian companies are in better shape in general than their U.S.
counterparts.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        