-- South Africa’s Ruling ANC Weighs Call for Mine Nationalization
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-09-23T23:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/anc-says-proposals-to-nationalize-south-africa-s-mines-need-more-clarity.html
South Africa’s ruling African
National Congress said it will respond later today to calls from
within its ranks to nationalize the country’s mines after
failing to reach consensus on the issue late yesterday.  The ANC Youth League has led the nationalization call,
saying the state should derive greater benefit from the
country’s mineral resources, and warned that it won’t support
leaders who fail to back its position. Its demands were
discussed at a key ANC policy conference in the eastern city of
Durban this week, along with calls to weaken the rand to protect
the competitiveness of the country’s exports.  “We are still working on the final formulation of the
economic transformation document,” ANC spokesman Ishmael Minisi,
told reporters. “We will report back at 9 a.m.”  Mining generates 30 percent of South Africa’s export
revenue, 18 percent of its corporate taxes and 500,000 direct
jobs, according to the Mines Ministry. The country is the
world’s biggest producer of platinum and chrome, and the third-
biggest gold producer.  Enoch Godongwana , deputy chairman of the ANC’s Economic
Transformation Committee, said there was broad consensus among
party members on increasing “state intervention” in the
country’s mines. Disagreements remain “on what form of state
intervention and to what degree,” he said in an interview in
Durban yesterday.  Melbourne, Australia-based  BHP Billiton  Ltd. and London-
based  Rio Tinto Group  and  Anglo American Plc  are among companies
with a stake in South Africa’s mineral resources, which
Citigroup Inc. has valued at $2.5 trillion.  Investor Concern  A potential government takeover of assets has worried
investors in South Africa’s mines.  “I don’t think the issue will go away and I think it will
be a challenge for both the state and the private sector to
address those concerns and to show it is not the path,”  Dennis Dykes , chief economist of Johannesburg-based  Nedbank Ltd. , South
Africa’s fourth-largest bank, said in a Sept. 21 interview. “We
would have a massive withdrawal of capital and a significant
loss of business confidence and it will benefit no one in the
end.”  Policy proposals from this week’s meeting will need to be
approved at the ANC’s elective conference in 2012 before they
are adopted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 