-- Handset Unit Sales Climbed 13% in Quarter, Led by Blackberry, Analyst Says
-- Diana ben-Aaron
-- 2010-07-30T06:28:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/handset-unit-sales-climbed-13-in-quarter-led-by-blackberry-analyst-says.html

          
          
             Mobile-phone sales grew 13 percent
to 308 million units in the second quarter, led by the
BlackBerry and other smartphones, according to researcher
Strategy Analytics.  
 Research in Motion Inc., which makes the BlackBerry,
increased its unit shipments 40 percent from a year earlier for
the fastest growth among top-five handset makers, London-based
analyst  Neil Mawston  wrote in an e-mailed report today. Samsung
Electronics Co. gained 22 percent.  
 Both  Nokia Oyj , the world’s biggest handset maker, and LG
Electronics Co. increased their unit volumes less than the
industry average, reflecting their lack of flagship high-end
smartphones during the quarter. Sony Ericsson Mobile
Electronics AB’s shipments declined 20 percent as it changed
product lines. Strategy Analytics predicts overall third-
quarter growth will be 12 percent, with smartphone product
introductions accelerating in the second half.  
 “There are no credible signs yet of any major double-dip
downturn in the handset industry, but that could of course
quickly change if conditions were to deteriorate again across
North America, Western Europe and Asia,” Mawston said in the
report. “The ramp-up in supply will drive higher volumes, but
this will inevitably place downward pressure on margins as
vendors fight to outsmart rivals.”  
 Global smartphone shipments rose 43 percent to 60 million
units in the second quarter, the researcher said on July 22.
Apple Inc. increased shipments 61 percent and now has almost 3
percent of overall handset share and 14 percent of smartphone
share.  
 “The honeymoon period for apple in the mobile world is
clearly coming to an end,” Mawston said. “Apple was
criticized for its intensive production methods in China, while
the iPhone has been heavily criticized for its poorly designed
touchable antenna, and may have lost some heartshare in recent
weeks because of its perceived mishandling of the antenna
problem.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        