-- Anglo American Doubles Profit on Metals Prices, Resumes Dividend Payments
-- Carli Lourens
-- 2010-07-30T07:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/anglo-american-doubles-its-profit-in-first-half-resumes-dividend-payments.html

          
          
             Anglo American Plc , owner of stakes
in the world’s biggest platinum and diamond producers, said it’s
resuming dividend payments after first-half earnings more than
doubled on higher metals prices.  
 Underlying earnings climbed to $1.84 a share from $0.91 a
year earlier, the London-based company said in a statement
today. That result beat the $1.79  median  of seven analyst
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. The dividend is $0.25 a share.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Cynthia Carroll  last year suspended
dividends for the first time in more than 60 years and cut more
than 23,000 jobs after metal prices plunged in 2008. She is
selling zinc, steel and phosphate assets to focus on the iron
ore and copper that’s needed in expanding Asian economies.  
 The first development phase of Anglo’s Minas Rio iron ore
project in Brazil, its biggest, suffered further delays and
could cost around $750 million more than its previous estimate
of $3.8 billion.  
 Anglo, which bought the assets for $5.5 billion in 2008,
said a cost of $210 million will be incurred related to changes
in the licensing and design of the mine. A further $180 million
a quarter may be incurred because of “increased schedule-
related costs,” it said. Anglo estimates that these costs will
be incurred within a nine-month period from June.  
 Asset Sales  
 “While the delay was largely anticipated, the magnitude of
the capital increase will likely come as a surprise,” UBS AG
said in a note.  
 Anglo’s shares were little changed at 2,536 pence in London
as of 8:39 a.m. local time, after earlier having fallen as much
as 1.9 percent.  
 Anglo agreed in May to sell its zinc mines to Vedanta
Resources Plc for $1.34 billion and said in February it would
sell parts of its Tarmac construction materials unit for $400
million. Last year, the company raised $2.4 billion from sales
of assets, mainly its stake in AngloGold Ashanti Ltd.  
 “We estimate that these assets sales could fetch up to $6-
8 billion and coupled with the potential $2-3 billion stake sale
in Minas Rio could raise up to $10 billion,” Credit Suisse said
in a note. That would “reduce debt levels significantly and
potentially make Anglo American debt free in 2011,” it said.  
 Underlying earnings is profit attributable to equity
shareholders and adjusted for the effect of special items, re-
measurements and related tax and minority interests.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        