-- Argentine Bonds Climbing Most in Emerging Markets as Fernandez Swaps Debt
-- Drew Benson
-- 2010-07-30T14:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/argentine-bonds-climbing-most-in-emerging-markets-as-fernandez-swaps-debt.html

          
          
             Argentine bonds posted the biggest
advance in emerging markets this month after President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s  $12.9 billion restructuring sparked a
credit-rating upgrade and revived demand for the nation’s debt.  
 The South American government’s dollar notes have returned
13.9 percent in July, the most among 46 developing countries
tracked by JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.
Argentine debt rose 2.5 percent in June and is up 11.8 percent
this year, the index shows.  
 Investors snapped up bonds that pay an average interest
over U.S. Treasuries of 692 basis points, or 6.92 percentage
points, at 9:41 a.m. New York time. That’s the highest among 15
countries in JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index after Venezuela and Ecuador.
Last month’s swap of defaulted securities held out of a 2005
settlement prompted Fitch Ratings to boost the country’s credit
rating to B from default. The government says the restructuring
will allow it to sell bonds overseas for the first time since
its 2001 default.  
 “If you’re looking for high yields, Argentina has a more
positive outlook with less uncertainty, at least over the next
12 to 24 months,” said  Roberto Sanchez-Dahl , who oversees $1
billion for Federated Investment Management Co. in Pittsburgh
and has an “overweight” position on Argentine debt.  
 Emerging Market Returns  
 Argentina is leading gains in emerging markets this month
as developing nation bonds record their biggest gain since
September. Emerging-market bonds returned 4 percent during the
month, the best performance since September’s 5.2 percent rally,
according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ indexes.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own Argentine
government bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries shrank 130 basis
points, or 1.30 percentage points, in July, according to the
EMBI+ index.  
 Yields on the government’s 2017 bonds, issued to compensate
creditors for past-due interest in the debt swap, were unchanged
at 10.03 percent today, according to pricing from Deutsche Bank
AG. Economy Minister  Amado Boudou  said in June the government
aimed to sell as much as $1 billion of the securities on
international markets once yields fell below 10 percent.
Argentina shelved plans to issue the bonds after concern
European governments may struggle to finance budget deficits
pushed the yield as high as 12.97 percent on June 9.  
 Sanchez-Dahl said he’d consider buying the new 2017 notes.  
 No Rush to Sell  
 An Argentine Economy Ministry official said today that the
country is not in a rush to sell bonds. Argentina may sell bonds
when yields reflect what the country should pay, the official
said on condition he not be identified, in accordance with
government policy.  
 Argentina’s peso was little changed at 3.9385 per dollar.  
 The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell 16 basis points to
790 basis points yesterday, leaving it down 181 basis points in
July, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 Argentine warrants linked to economic growth were unchanged
at 9.65 cents.  
 Yields on Argentina’s benchmark dollar bonds due in 2015
rose eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 10.9
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Argentine bonds are poised to slump as the global economic
recovery slows, leading investors to shun higher-yielding
assets, according to  Eduardo Suarez , an emerging-markets
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto.  
 ‘Correction’  
 “We see a correction for Argentina driven by a global
slowdown in growth that will cause a drop in stocks and lessen
risk appetite by the tail end of this quarter,” Suarez said.  
 The central bank said in a report last night that economic
growth will be at least 7 percent this year, higher than Economy
Minister Amado Boudou’s July 15 estimate of 6 percent or more.  
 Argentina’s economic activity gauge, a proxy for gross
domestic product, jumped 12.4 percent in May from a year
earlier, the government said July 16. The increase topped the
median 9.1 percent estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists
and is the biggest since March 2004.  
 A record soybean harvest has helped the central bank boost
reserves to an all-time high of $51.1 billion this week and
pushed tax revenue 39 percent higher in June from a year earlier
to 37.3 billion pesos. Argentina’s budget surplus before
interest payments was 2.7 billion pesos in June. The government
has run a so-called primary surplus every month since December
2008.  
 “The fact that the government hasn’t been able to tap
international markets in so long has left the balance sheets in
good shape,” RBC’s Suarez said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, Argentina's president, speaks at the University of International Business and Economics, in Beijing. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
