-- Asian Currencies Rise, Led by Philippine Peso, on Growth, Interest Rates
-- Lilian Karunungan
-- 2010-07-31T00:37:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/asian-currencies-rise-this-week-led-by-peso-on-growth-prospects-rates.html

          
          
             Asian currencies strengthened this
week, led by the Philippine peso and Indonesia’s rupiah, as the
fastest economic growth in the world and relatively high
interest rates attracted funds to the region.  
 The peso, rupiah and Taiwan’s dollar advanced on each of
the last five days and the  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index  of shares had
a fourth weekly gain. South Korea this week reported bigger
increases in second-quarter gross domestic product and June
industrial output than economists forecast, while the Reserve
Bank of India raised interest rates for the fourth time this
year to quell inflation.  
 “Asian currencies are well supported by their interest-
rate stance and relatively more positive economic prospects,”
said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja , a regional economist at OSK-DMG Group
in Singapore.  
 The peso strengthened 1.7 percent this week to 45.525 per
dollar at the 4 p.m. close in Manila. Indonesia’s rupiah
appreciated 1 percent to 8,955, earlier touching a three-year
high of 8,933, and Taiwan’s dollar advanced 0.3 percent to
NT$32.050. South Korea’s won climbed 1.4 percent to 1,182.75 and
the Indian rupee rose 1 percent to 46.49.  
 Emerging-market equity funds in Asia excluding Japan
received more than $1 billion in the week ended July 28, the
strongest inflows in 14 weeks, according to Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based EPFR Global, which tracks firms overseeing
$13 trillion of assets. Foreigners pumped more than $7 billion
into equities in India, South Korea and Taiwan this month,
exchange data show.  
 Aquino Pledges  
 Developing economies in Asia will expand 9.2 percent in
2010, outpacing growth of 2.6 percent in advanced countries, the
International Monetary Fund said on July 7. Singapore’s gross
domestic product expanded 18.1 percent in the first half, the
fastest pace since records began in 1975.  
 The peso had its biggest weekly gain this year after
President  Benigno Aquino , who took office at the end of June,
pledged to spur economic growth and attract investment in his
first State of the Nation address on July 26.  
 “With the new government, it seems there will be stability
and it will attract foreign investors,” said  Jose Emmanuel Hilado , treasurer at Rizal Commercial Banking Corp. in Manila.
“The peso in terms of fundamentals should be stronger.”  
 The government is targeting economic growth of 7 percent to
8 percent annually from 2011 to create jobs and fight poverty,
Finance Secretary  Cesar Purisima  said on July 27.  
 Growth Prospects  
 The won completed its biggest monthly increase since
September 2009 after reports this week showed industrial output
increased 16.9 percent from a year earlier in June and the
current-account surplus reached a one-year high of $5.04 billion.
Economists forecast a 16.5 percent gain in industrial production,
a Bloomberg survey showed.  
 “I’m reasonably happy with the data as growth is holding
up pretty well,” said Brian Jackson, a Hong Kong-based senior
emerging-markets strategist at Royal Bank of Canada. “Trade
data has been solid, suggesting a fair bit of support from
external demand, which is reflected in the industrial output.”  
 South Korea’s economy grew 1.5 percent in the second quarter
from the previous three months, faster than the 1.3 percent
growth forecast in a Bloomberg survey, data on July 26 showed.  
 Ratings Outlook  
 The rupiah yesterday rose for a seventh day, its longest
winning streak in more than three years. The government on July
26 predicted economic growth will accelerate to 6 percent in the
second half of 2010, from 5.8 percent in the last six months.  
 The Indonesian currency has scope to appreciate further,
after gains of 5 percent so far this year and 16 percent in 2009,
as an improving economy and rising commodity exports help the
nation win investment-grade debt ratings, according to  Philippe Jauer , chief investment officer of Amundi Singapore.  
 “We are very positive on Indonesia’s local and external
debt, which is one of the bigger bets within our investments in
Asian sovereign debt,”, said Jauer, who has a third of the $4
billion of fixed-income assets he oversees invested in Asia.
“We should see Indonesia as an investment-grade country in the
next 12 to 18 months.”  
 Elsewhere, Thailand’s baht slipped 0.1 percent to 32.25 per
dollar this week. Malaysia’s ringgit rose 0.5 percent to 3.1823
and China’s yuan gained 0.1 percent to 6.7735.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        