-- Asian Stocks Decline on Japanese Economic Data, Macquarie Profit Outlook
-- Akiko Ikeda
-- 2010-07-30T10:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/asian-stocks-drop-on-weaker-japan-jobless-output-data-macquarie-tumbles.html

          
          
             Asian  stocks  fell, dragging down the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index by the most in almost two weeks, as
higher-than-estimated unemployment in Japan and a poorer
 Macquarie Group Ltd.  earnings outlook overshadowed increased
profit targets at Sony Corp. and  Panasonic Corp.   
 Mizuho Financial Group Inc., Japan’s third-largest lender
by market value, lost 1.4 percent amid concerns about the health
of the world’s second-largest economy. Macquarie, Australia’s
biggest investment bank, slumped 3.1 percent after saying some
of its businesses are set to report lower earnings.  Sony  and
Panasonic, the world’s largest consumer-electronics makers,
climbed more than 3.5 percent in Tokyo.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  sank 0.6 percent to 119.10 as
of 7:07 p.m. in Tokyo, the biggest drop since July 19. Today’s
slump pared the measure’s advance this month to 5.6 percent, the
most since March. The gauge has slumped 7.7 percent from its
high this year on April 15 on concern Europe’s debt crisis and
Chinese steps to curb property prices will slow global growth.  
 “Some investors are cautious,” said  Yoshinori Nagano , a
senior strategist in Tokyo at Daiwa Asset Management Co., which
oversees about $104 billion. “People cannot remove
uncertainties about the future in terms of the macro economy.”  
 The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  fell 1.6 percent in Japan,
where a government report also showed industrial production sank
unexpectedly. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index and South Korea’s
Kospi Index declined 0.7 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index
lost 0.3 percent. China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  dropped 0.4
percent.  
 Japan’s Jobless Rate  
 Futures on the U.S. Standard & Poor’s 500 lost 0.5 percent.
The gauge sank 0.4 percent yesterday as earnings and forecasts
at technology and consumer companies disappointed investors.  
 Japanese stocks fell after the statistics bureau reported
the country’s unemployment rate rose to a seven-month high of
5.3 percent in June from 5.2 percent a month earlier. The median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was 5.2
percent. Separately, the Trade Ministry said  factory   output 
dropped 1.5 percent last month from May. The median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg survey was for a 0.2 percent increase.  
 Mizuho Financial decreased 1.4 percent to 141 yen while
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. , Japan’s largest bank by
market value, fell 0.9 percent to 429 yen. Kobe Steel Ltd., the
country’s No. 4 steel mill, dropped 7.2 percent to 181 yen.
Asahi Glass Co. dropped 2.7 percent to 880 yen.  
 Faltering Markets  
 Macquarie lost 3.1 percent to A$37.20 after the investment
bank said its advisory, securities, fixed income and commodities
businesses are set to report lower  earnings  as global markets
falter and deals dwindle. The outlook reverses Macquarie’s April
forecast that all businesses were likely to post improved
results for the year to March 31, 2011. Westpac Banking Corp.
retreated 1.1 percent to A$23.99.  
 In Tokyo, Sony rose 3.6 percent to 2,705 yen while
Panasonic surged 6 percent to 1,142 yen.  
 Sony, which makes Bravia televisions, raised its full-year
 profit forecast  20 percent, while Panasonic revised its
projection by 70 percent after they both reported first-quarter
earnings that exceeded analysts’ estimates. Both cited better-
than expected sales of flat-panel TVs for the improved outlooks.  
 Fujitsu Ltd., Japan’s biggest computer-services provider,
rose 4.4 percent to 615 yen after tripling its first-half net
income forecast.  Acom Co. , Japan’s largest consumer lender by
market value, jumped 5.8 percent to 1,511 yen after its first-
quarter operating profit more than doubled.  
 July Rally  
 Seventy percent of the 180 companies in the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index that reported  quarterly earnings  this month have
beaten analysts’ estimates, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The gauge gained 1.4 percent over the past five days,
the fourth straight weekly advance.  
 “Some companies’ earnings were better than I thought, but
those can’t be factors in determining the direction of the macro
economy” said  Koichi Kurose , chief strategist in Tokyo at
Resona Bank Ltd., which manages about $57 billion. ”Global
economic growth will remain flat for a while.”  
 Economic data from the U.S. this month have fueled concerns
the world’s biggest economy is stalling. Sales at  U.S. retailers 
declined in June for a second month, the Commerce Department
reported on July 14. The Conference Board reported on July 27
that its index of consumer confidence fell in July from June.  
 Speculation global economic growth may falter dragged down
the MSCI Asia Pacific Index by as much as 9.6 percent this year,
and the  average  price of stocks in the gauge dropped this month
to its lowest level since December 2008. The index’s companies
now trade at 14.3 times estimated profit, compared with 13.3
times for the  S&P 500 .  
 Yanzhou Coal  
 In Seoul,  Hyundai Steel Co. , South Korea’s biggest maker of
construction steel, declined 3.8 percent to 102,500 won after it
reported a 41 percent slump in second-quarter profit because of
foreign-exchange losses.  
 Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. , the listed unit of China’s fourth-
biggest coal miner, sank 3 percent to 17.84 yuan in Shanghai
after cutting its estimate for first-half profit growth.  
 In Hong Kong, Chong Hing Bank Ltd. soared 15 percent to
HK$17.52. Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. has
approached Chong Hing Bank to acquire it, Sina.com reported,
citing unidentified people from the banking industry.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
 Akiko Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The MSCI Asia Pacific Index sank 0.5 percent to 119.18 as of 9:51 a.m. in Tokyo. Four stocks declined for each one that rose on the index, which climbed 1.5 percent this week. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Gavin Wendt, a senior analyst with MineLife Co. Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li from Sydney about Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.'s agreement to pay $1.35 billion for a stake in Rio Tinto Group's Simandou iron ore project in Guinea.
    Chalco, as the Beijing-based company is known, will acquire a 44.65 percent stake by funding development over the next two to three years, the companies said in a joint statement. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
