-- Stocks Drop, Treasuries, Yen Rally as U.S. GDP Growth Slows
-- Stephen Kirkland
-- 2010-07-30T20:49:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/asian-stocks-oil-decline-on-japan-s-jobless-output-data-yen-strengthens.html

          
          
             Treasuries rose, sending the two-
year yield to a record low, while the dollar slumped versus the
yen as weaker-than-estimated U.S. economic growth cast doubt on
the strength of the recovery. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index 
still capped its best monthly rally in a year.  
 The two-year note’s yield slumped 3 basis points to 0.5461
percent before paring losses and the dollar fell as much as 1
percent to 85.95 yen, the weakest since November. The S&P 500
rose less than 0.1 percent to 1,101.6 at the 4 p.m. close in New
York, reversing a  loss  of 1.2 percent in the first half hour
after gauges of business activity and consumer confidence topped
estimates. Oil rose 0.7 percent after an earlier 2 percent
tumble sent it below its average price from the past 100 days.  
 The S&P 500 fell 0.1 percent this week, trimming its July
rally to 6.9 percent, as reports portraying a slowdown in the
U.S. expansion tempered optimism from better-than-estimated
earnings. Treasury notes capped a fourth monthly gain amid
concern the world’s largest economy is struggling to recover
from the worst recession since World War II.  
 “Today’s numbers confirm that the economic recovery is
losing momentum due to structural headwinds,”  Mohamed A. El- Erian , the chief executive officer of Pacific Investment
Management Co., said in an email. Newport Beach, California-
based Pimco runs the world’s biggest bond fund.  
 GDP, Consumer Spending  
 The 2.4 percent growth in U.S. gross domestic product
reported by the government today compared with 2.6 percent
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 81 economists. Consumer
spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy,
increased at a 1.6 percent annual rate, less than the 2.4
percent pace predicted in a Bloomberg survey.  
 Other data bolstered optimism in the economy’s performance
this month, triggering the rebound from an early tumble in
stocks. The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said
today its business barometer rose to 62.3 this month, exceeding
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Figures greater than 50 signal expansion. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan final index of consumer sentiment
declined to 67.8 in July, compared with the median estimate of
67.  
 America’s financial system remains fragile and banks
subjected to additional economic stress might need as much as
$76 billion in capital, according to International Monetary Fund
stress tests. The findings, released in a report today, suggest
that while the nation’s banking system is stable, it remains
vulnerable.  
 Treasuries, Yen  
 The 10-year Treasury yield dropped 8 basis points to 2.91
percent. The yen strengthened against 10 of 16 of its most-
traded counterparts, paring gains against the dollar to 0.4
percent by the end of the day.  
 A benchmark indicator of corporate credit risk in the U.S.
climbed, trimming a weekly retreat. Credit-default swaps on the
Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which typically
rises as investor confidence deteriorates, increased 0.3 basis
points to a mid-price of 104.5 basis points, according to index
administrator Markit Group Ltd.  
 The Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of commodities rallied 1.5
percent to 274.35, its highest level in almost three months.  
 Oil capped its biggest monthly gain since March, rising 0.8
percent to $78.95 a barrel today and surging 4.4 percent in
July. Today’s rally came after an early slide took crude below
its average price over the past 100 days, a level watched by
traders whose decisions are influenced by chart patterns.  
 ‘Sold Off Too Hard’  
 “Prices sold off too hard and dropped below the 100-day
moving average of $78.25,” said  Hamza Khan , an analyst at the
Schork Group in Villanova, Pennsylvania. “Traders are just not
willing to give that point up.”  
 Spanish 10-year bonds fell, sending the yield 3 basis
points higher to 4.21 percent, after Moody’s Investors Service
said the nation will probably lose its top Aaa credit rating.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  declined 0.4 percent, capping a
0.2 percent weekly loss. The measure rallied 4.9 percent in
July, its biggest advance since March. Lafarge SA, the world’s
largest cement maker, dropped 3.9 percent today after cutting
its demand outlook. HeidelbergCement AG retreated 3.4 percent as
earnings trailed estimates.  
 The MSCI Emerging Markets Index of equities in 21
developing nations slipped 0.2 percent, halting an eight-day
rally.  
 Emerging-market bonds capped their biggest monthly rally
since September, cutting yields to a record low, as accelerating
economic growth and Argentina’s debt restructuring spur
confidence.  
 Emerging Market Bonds  
 Developing nation bonds rallied 4.3 percent in July,
reducing the average yield to 5.89 percent, the lowest since
Bloomberg began compiling data from JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+
Index in 1998.  
 Investors are turning to economies the  International
Monetary Fund  said this month will expand three times faster
than industrialized nations, with less than half the level of
government debt. Indonesia’s bonds jumped 6.1 percent as the
finance ministry predicted 6 percent second-half growth, up from
5.8 percent in the first half. Argentine debt rose 13.8 percent
as President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner ’s $12.9 billion
restructuring sparked a credit-rating upgrade.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Kirkland  in London at 
   skirkland@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The MSCI Asia Pacific Index sank 0.5 percent to 119.18 as of 9:51 a.m. in Tokyo. Four stocks declined for each one that rose on the index, which climbed 1.5 percent this week. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Guy Lebas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, discusses the U.S. second-quarter gross domestic product figures released by the Commerce Department today and the outlook for the economy.
     Growth in the U.S. slowed to a 2.4 percent annual rate in the second quarter, less than forecast, reflecting a larger trade deficit and an easing in consumer spending. Lebas speaks with Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop With Betty Liu.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Christina Romer, chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, discusses second-quarter gross domestic product, released today, and the outlook for the U.S. economy.
     Romer speaks with Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Gavin Wendt, a senior analyst with MineLife Co. Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li from Sydney about Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.'s agreement to pay $1.35 billion for a stake in Rio Tinto Group's Simandou iron ore project in Guinea.
    Chalco, as the Beijing-based company is known, will acquire a 44.65 percent stake by funding development over the next two to three years, the companies said in a joint statement. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
