-- AstraZeneca Will Keep Seroquel Settlement Terms Confidential
-- Jef Feeley
-- 2010-07-31T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/astrazeneca-says-almost-4-000-seroquel-claims-settled-through-mediation.html

          
          
             AstraZeneca Plc , which tentatively
settled almost 4,000 product-liability cases this month
involving its antipsychotic drug Seroquel through mediation,
said it will keep terms of the agreements confidential.  
 “AstraZeneca remains committed to a strong defense effort,
but will also continue to participate in good faith in the
court-ordered mediation process,”  Tony Jewell , an AstraZeneca
U.S. spokesman in Wilmington, Delaware, said yesterday in an
e-mailed statement.  
 The London-based company, the U.K.’s second-biggest
drugmaker, said in a  regulatory filing  that by the end of March,
it was defending more than 10,000 cases involving 22,500
plaintiff groups. Some of the cases were previously dismissed
because plaintiffs lacked sufficient evidence to support
allegations that  Seroquel  causes diabetes.  
 The company, with $32.8 billion in sales last year, said in
the July 29 filing that by March, it had spent about
$688 million defending Seroquel-related cases.  
 AstraZeneca agreed earlier to pay $2 million to settle more
than 200 Seroquel cases, averaging about $10,000 each, people
familiar with the agreements said. Those settlements were part
of the same federal-court-ordered mediation.  
 Some of the cases were filed in state courts, including New
Jersey and Delaware. Others have been consolidated on the
federal level with U.S. District Judge  Anne Conway  in Orlando,
Florida.  
 In the first Seroquel case to be tried, AstraZeneca won a
jury verdict that the company properly warned doctors of a
Vietnam War veteran of the drug’s diabetes risk. A judge in
Delaware dismissed three more cases saying there wasn’t enough
proof of a diabetes link.  
 The consolidated Seroquel case is In re Seroquel Products
Litigation, 06-MD-01769, U.S. District Court, Middle District of
Florida (Orlando).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        