-- Australian Regulator Changeover May Accelerate Trading, Fraud Prosecutions
-- Shani Raja
-- 2010-07-30T06:48:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/australia-vows-faster-prosecution-of-insider-trading-under-regulator-asic.html

          
          
             The Australian Securities and
Investments Commission said its takeover of financial-markets
supervision should result in faster prosecutions in cases of
manipulation and insider trading.  
 ASIC takes up the new role from next week after Australia’s
Senate voted in March to hand oversight of real-time trading on
domestic licensed markets to ASIC from  ASX Ltd ., the national
stock exchange operator.  
 “Perhaps what people will see a bit more than before is
that things are going quicker,” Belinda Gibson, ASIC’s deputy
chairman, said in an interview at the agency’s Sydney premises.
“We’re not talking quantum leaps in terms of time to
prosecution. But at the moment, the referral process takes about
three months for something like insider trading, and it chugs on
from there.”  
 Until now, ASX’s role has been to investigate suspected
breaches of market integrity rules and refer the most serious to
ASIC, while its own conduct has been overseen by the regulator.
ASIC will now be responsible for both supervision and
enforcement of the laws against misconduct on Australia’s
financial markets.  
 “One would think that if our own surveillance people see a
potential breach of those criminal cases, it won’t be a case of
review, review, tip it over the fence, and then we have another
bite at the cherry,” said Gibson. “It should go pretty quickly,
and more smoothly.”  
 Lost Cases  
 ASIC lost at least three high-profile court cases last year,
including one against Jodee Rich over the collapse of
telecommunications carrier One.Tel Ltd., of which he was
managing director. It also lost a case against  Andrew Forrest ,
the billionaire founder of  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. , whom it
accused of misleading investors over iron-ore project accords
with China.  
 “A more effective and efficient regulator will engender
confidence amongst market participants and can only help add to
the attractiveness of Australia as a global investing
destination,” said  Tim Schroeders , a fund manager at Pengana
Capital Ltd. in Melbourne.  
 The government has said the transfer of additional
supervisory powers to the regulator will pave the way for the
entry of new competitors to ASX.  
 Chi-X Global Inc., an electronic-trading-platform, this
year won preliminary approval to become Australia’s first rival
to the dominant exchange operator. Chi-X Australia Pty. is
hoping to start operating in early 2011, the local unit’s chief
operating officer,  Peter Fowler , told Bloomberg News this month.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Lisa Pham  in Sydney at 
 lpham14@bloomberg.net ;
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        