-- Bush-Era Tax Cuts Should Remain, House's Pence Says
-- Laura Litvan
-- 2010-07-31T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/tax-cuts-for-wealthy-should-remain-to-aid-recovery-republican-pence-says.html

          
          
             Congress should retain tax cuts
passed under former President  George W. Bush  without offsetting
the $40 billion cost of including families earning more than
$250,000, said Indiana Representative  Mike Pence , the third-
ranking U.S. House Republican leader.  
 “It is imperative that we preserve the tax relief,”
Pence, chairman of the House Republican Conference, said in an
interview on “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing this
weekend on Bloomberg Television. “I also believe that if we get
the economy moving again and provide both tax relief and reform
going forward, that as the economy expands federal revenues will
expand.”  
 Pence, a fifth-term lawmaker, was lukewarm to a suggestion
by  Erskine Bowles , co-chairman of President  Barack Obama ’s
national debt commission, that three-quarters of budget
savings should come from spending cuts and the rest from tax
increases. The tax-boost idea would get “very little support
among Republicans” in the Capitol, Pence said.  
 “Raising taxes during the worst economy in 25 years is a
profoundly bad idea and I won’t support it,” he said.  
 The Bush-era income tax cuts expire at the end of this
year. Obama and congressional Democrats want to extend them for
households earning up to $250,000 and let them end for wealthier
taxpayers. Republicans insist on keeping the tax cuts for all
income levels without reducing spending or raising taxes
elsewhere to make up for the cost.  
 About three months before midterm elections, Pence said
he’s optimistic that Republicans may be able to retake control
of the House, though he didn’t predict the odds of a change in
control.  
 ‘Genuine Opportunity’  
 “I think House Republicans believe we have a genuine
opportunity to win back the majority of the House of
Representatives,” Pence said. The party lost its previous
majority in the 2006 elections.  
 The top priorities of a Republican majority would be “to
get this economy moving again and to get federal spending under
control,” he said. Asked about Obama’s health-care overhaul,
Pence, 51, said repealing it remains a goal.  
 “I believe House Republicans are going to work to repeal
Obamacare lock, stock and barrel,” he said. “Obviously, the
president will be in office in 2011. He certainly would have the
ability to veto any effort that we make.”  
 House Republicans would nevertheless seek a debate over how
to better control health-care costs and could use their power
over House spending bills to make changes, he said.  
 Engine Issue  
 While Republicans are making fiscal discipline a top issue,
Pence defended a speech he made on the House floor supporting
approval of funds for  General Electric Co. ’s backup engine for
the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. A factory in his district would
benefit if the House approved the $450 million cost of
continuing development of the engine.  
 U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  says a second engine is
a wasteful expense, and Obama has threatened to veto legislation
that includes the funding.  
 Pence pointed to a study by the Heritage Foundation, a
conservative research group in Washington, that said the U.S.
should have more than one source for an engine produced under a
defense contract that will span decades.  
 “The fact that one of those two engines in part is
manufactured in Indiana, we certainly welcome,” Pence said. “I
really do believe that it was in the interest of our national
defense and in the interest of fiscal responsibility.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Representative Mike Pence  
                       
                         
                           Brendan Hoffman/Getty Images 
                         
                         Representative Mike Pence, a Rebulican from Indiana, speaks at a news conference Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Representative Mike Pence, a Rebulican from Indiana, speaks at a news conference Washington. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Rick Taormina, head of municipal strategies at JPMorgan Chase & Co., talks about the municipal bond market and the impact of budget cuts and tax increases on bondholders.
     Taormina, speaking with Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness," also discusses the outlook for California's creditworthiness. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
