-- Bank Credit-Default Swaps Headed for Biggest Monthly Drop Since April `08
-- Abigail Moses
-- 2010-07-30T12:45:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/bank-credit-default-swaps-headed-for-biggest-monthly-drop-since-april-08.html

          
          
             An index of credit-default swaps
insuring against losses on European bank bonds is heading for
the biggest monthly drop since April 2008.  
 The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to 25 banks and
insurers has fallen 43.5 basis points this month and is near the
lowest level since April 23. The gauge pared the decline today,
rising 3.5 basis points to 118.5, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. prices at 1:30 p.m. in London.  
 The cost of swaps on bank bonds will fall, according to BNP
Paribas SA, after European Union stress tests boosted confidence
that lenders can withstand an economic slowdown. Investor
sentiment has also been buoyed by the softening of proposed
capital and liquidity rules by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision.  
 “We believe the best course of action for investors is to
go with the flow,” said  Aziz Sunderji , a London-based
strategist at Barclays Capital. “We would advise investors to
spend the remainder of the summer adding risk.”  
 Lenders rushed to sell bonds in euros this week to take
advantage of improved risk appetite, with Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA issuing 1.25 billion euros of five-year notes and
Bank of America Corp. selling a 2 billion-euro ($2.6 billion)
seven-year deal.  
 Company bond sales in Europe fell 24 percent in July to
40.6 billion euros, compared with 53.7 billion euros in June,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance is down from
79 billion euros in the same period in 2009.  
 Swaps Rally  
 The credit-default swap rally eased ahead of a report that
may show the U.S. economy grew in the second quarter at about
the same pace as in the prior three months, driven by a pickup
in business investment as consumer spending cooled.  
 The U.S. financial system remains fragile and banks
subjected to additional economic stress might need as much as
$76 billion in capital, according to the International Monetary
Fund.  
 The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings rose 2.25 basis points to 107, JPMorgan
prices show. The index, which also includes banks and insurers,
fell 21.5 basis points this month, the most in a year, and may
drop as low as 90 basis points next month, according to analysts
at BNP Paribas SA.  
 The difference between Markit’s financial and corporate
gauges shrank to near the least since March this month, dropping
as low as 7.75 basis points July 27. The Markit iTraxx Financial
Index now exceeds the corporate benchmark by 10.5 basis points.
The gap may disappear,  Alberto Gallo , a strategist at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. said July 13.  
 ‘A Kind Month’  
 “July has been a kind month for the credit markets as
spreads have tightened,” said  Juan Esteban Valencia , a London-
based credit strategist at Societe Generale SA. “The economic
recovery showed some mixed results but the earnings season is
proving once again to be quite strong giving support to the
spread rally.”  
 Credit-default swap indexes stayed higher after a U.S.
Commerce Department report that showed the world’s largest
economy grew more slowly than forecast in the second quarter.
Gross domestic product increased 2.4 percent year-on-year,
compared with a 2.6 percent forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  
 Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings increased 9.5
basis points to 489.  
 A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        