-- Barclays Plc Says Improving U.S. Economy Will Support Dollar Versus Euro
-- Catarina Saraiva
-- 2010-07-30T20:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/barclays-plc-says-improving-u-s-economy-will-support-dollar-versus-euro.html

          
          
             Barclays Plc expects the U.S.
economic recovery to gain momentum, which will support the
dollar against the euro.  
 The firm raised its one-month forecast for the greenback to
$1.27 per euro, which is 2.7 percent lower than today’s level of
$1.3056, yet stronger than its previous estimate of $1.20. The
firm’s three-month forecast was revised to $1.25 from $1.20. The
dollar will fare better versus the euro as U.S. economic data
begin to improve,  Paul Robinson , a currency strategist at
Barclays in London, wrote in a note to clients.  
 “We do not expect the recent run of bad news on the U.S.
economy to persist,” Robinson wrote. “Prospects for the U.S.
economy are somewhat better than has currently been factored
in.”  
 The dollar rose 0.2 percent to $1.3056 per euro at 3:18
p.m. in New York. The greenback was poised to post its first
monthly decline against the shared currency in eight months,
dropping 6.3 percent.  
 The U.S. economy grew at a 2.4 percent annual rate in the
second quarter after a revised 3.7 percent increase in the first
three months of the year, the Commerce Department reported
today. The median forecast of 81 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a gain of 2.6 percent.  
 “U.S. data have mostly been weaker than the market
expected, but surprisingly positive in Europe,” Robinson wrote.  
 Political Risks  
 An index of executive and consumer  sentiment  in the euro
nations increased this month to 101.3, the highest level since
March 2008, the European Commission said July 29.  
 Political risks in both the euro zone and the U.S. could
threaten the currencies, Robinson wrote. European countries face
the challenge of implementing austerity packages, which will
“take years” to stabilize peripheral countries’ fiscal
positions, and investors in the U.S. may become more cautious as
mid-term elections approach, he wrote.  
 Barclays also adjusted its forecast for the yen, estimating
the Japanese currency will fall to 90 versus the dollar in the
next month, compared with a previous forecast of 92, as
speculation about Federal Reserve efforts to keep interest rates
low weigh on Treasury yields and the dollar. The one-year
estimate stayed at 98.  
 The greenback fell 0.5 percent to 86.39 yen after touching
a level below 86 yen for the first time this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        