-- Belgian Economic Growth Accelerates to 0.7% as Euro-Area Outlook Improves
-- Jurjen van de Pol
-- 2010-07-30T14:47:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/belgian-economic-growth-accelerates-to-0-7-as-euro-area-outlook-improves.html

          
          
             Economic growth  in Belgium, the euro
zone’s sixth-largest economy, accelerated in the second quarter,
adding to evidence that the recovery in the euro region is
gaining momentum.  
 The economy of Belgium, the first of the 16 euro-zone
countries to report second-quarter gross domestic product,
expanded 0.7 percent from the first quarter, when it stagnated,
the  National Bank of Belgium  in Brussels said today. The bank
revised its first-quarter data to show the no growth in the
January-March period, compared with a 0.1 percent expansion
estimated earlier.  
 The economic outlook is improving across Europe after being
dimmed earlier this year by the Greece-led debt crisis.
 Confidence  in the euro-area economy’s prospects has recovered to
the highest in more than two years and business sentiment in
Germany, the region’s largest economy and one of Belgium’s
biggest trading partners, surged to a three-year high this
month.  
 “It is quite clear that the Belgian activity benefited in
the second quarter from positive growth in the neighboring
partners, and mainly Germany,”  Philippe Ledent , an economist at
 ING Groep NV  in Brussels, said in a note to clients. Belgium’s
GDP report “is also a good sign for the whole euro zone.”  
 While the central bank didn’t provide a breakdown of GDP
components for the second quarter, economists said growth was
fueled by a rebound in the construction industry after a 3.5
percent contraction in the first three months of the year due to
harsh winter weather.  
 Economic Rebound  
 “Construction was a key factor for the economic rebound
after output was depleted in the first quarter by unusually long
freezing period,” said  Dominique Barbet , an economist at BNP
Paribas in Paris. “We see this as a positive start for the
entire euro zone, given Belgium is a wide open economy.”  
 Deceuninck NV , Europe’s third-biggest producer of plastic
window frames, on July 15 reported a 14 percent gain in second-
quarter revenue. “Sales in Western Europe showed a steady year-
on-year increase as opposed to the weak start of the year,” the
Hooglede-Gits, Belgium-based company said.  
 Bekaert NV , the world’s largest maker of steel cord used in
tires, today reported first-half earnings that beat analysts’
estimates and raised its forecast on the growth of its
operations in China.  Belgacom SA , the biggest telephone company
in Belgium, boosted its 2010 revenue projection after net income
more than doubled in the first half.  
 Debt Crisis  
 The Belgian central bank last month raised its forecast for
the economy, citing exports as “the motor of growth in 2010.”
It predicts expansion of 1.3 percent this year and 1.7 percent
in 2011, after a 2.7 percent slump in 2009.  
 Hurt by concerns that the sovereign-debt crisis was
spreading, the euro has declined 9 percent against the dollar
this year, making the European exports more attractive to buyers
overseas. With those worries about the euro easing, the currency
has risen more than 6 percent in the past month.  
 Belgium’s economy grew 2.2 percent in the second quarter
from the year-earlier period, after a 1.6 percent expansion in
the first three months of the year, today’s report showed.  
 The nation faces political uncertainty until a new
government is formed following inconclusive elections in June.
 Elio Di Rupo , head of the French-speaking Socialists, is trying
to work out a basis to start talks to form a coalition, which
could involve as many as seven parties. Three years ago,
government formation took a record nine months.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jurjen van de Pol  in Amsterdam 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        