-- Berlusconi's Grip on Power Slipping as Former Ally Forms Party
-- Flavia Krause-Jackson
-- 2010-07-30T16:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/berlusconi-s-grip-on-power-slips-as-former-ally-fini-seeks-to-form-party.html

          
          
             Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s
grip on power loosened as  Gianfranco Fini , speaker of Italy’s
lower house of parliament, abandoned the premier’s ruling party
to create a new group with enough votes to sink the government.  
 Berlusconi, 73, yesterday called on his oldest political
ally to abandon his office, the country’s third highest, and
leave the People of Liberty party that the two co-founded in
2008. Fini is “absolutely incompatible with the principles of
the party,” Berlusconi said.  
 In a statement read to reporters near the Pantheon in Rome
today, Fini refused to resign as speaker and said his new group
will support the government while opposing legislation it deems
“unjustly damaging.” Thirty-two members of the  lower house 
left Berlusconi today to join his rival’s new Future and Freedom
for Italy formation. That’s enough to deprive Berlusconi of a
majority in the chamber and bring down the government if they
voted against the premier.  
 “This is a declaration of war,”  James Walston , a
professor of politics at American University in Rome, said in an
interview. “There will be a showdown in parliament at some
point in the autumn and they will pull out their guns. Right now
they’re eyeball to eyeball.”  
 The public rift between the two has contributed to
Berlusconi’s popularity falling to the lowest since he came to
power in May 2008. Fini, 58, and his allies recently have
clashed with Berlusconi over a draft law to limit wiretapping,
which is scheduled to be debated in the chamber after the August
break, setting up a possible confrontation. Fini’s group has
said that enforcing the rule of law, not individual privacy,
must be the priority.  
 ‘Honest’ Members  
 Fini said his party would be made up of the “honest”
members of  Berlusconi’s bloc  “who are thankful to prosecutors
and the forces of order.”  
 Berlusconi often criticizes prosecutors and is currently
facing two corruption trials. Three government officials and
several party chiefs face corruption probes, in part because of
extensive use of phone bugs. Berlusconi passed an immunity
measure earlier this year that froze the trials against him. He
denies any wrongdoing and says the accusations are political.  
 Pier Luigi Bersani , leader of the biggest opposition party,
today said “there’s no more government,” and called for a
temporary administration to be installed to pass a new electoral
law and then shepherd the country to an early vote.  
 “We don’t believe that there’s any risk to the
government,” Berlusconi said yesterday.  
 Fini’s bloc is providing “a form of external support” to
the government, Angela Napoli, a lawmaker joining the group,
said in an interview. “No one really seems to be ready for
elections yet.”  
 Way Back  
 Berlusconi and Fini first joined forces in 1994, when their
Forza Italia and National Alliance parties became coalition
allies. They have since won three elections together, the last
one in 2008, when they fused their blocs and ran as a single
formation.  
 Even though he holds one of the biggest parliamentary
majorities in postwar Italy, Berlusconi’s coalition has often
been divided. The premier has had to resort to a record number
of 36 confidence votes, a move that stakes the government’s
survival on the outcome, to push through legislation such as
austerity measures to trim the country’s budget deficit.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Steve Scherer  at 
 sscherer@bloomberg.net ;
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in Rome at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Silvio Berlusconi  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Silvio Berlusconi, Italy's prime minister, laughs during a news conference in Toronto. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Silvio Berlusconi, Italy's prime minister, laughs during a news conference in Toronto. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
