-- Blue Chip America Mints Money to Spend on Growth, Dividends
-- Will Daley
-- 2010-07-30T13:58:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/blue-chip-america-minting-money-as-bigger-dividends-must-bow-to-investment.html

          
          
             The $1.24 trillion in cash sitting
in U.S. companies’ coffers may soon be going back to work to
stimulate the economy.  
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index members are starting to open
the purse strings on spending. In addition to raising dividends
and doling out billions for stock buybacks, Corporate America’s
mint is building Wynn Resorts Ltd. nightclubs, developing
Caterpillar Inc. mining trucks, creating new Quaker oatmeal and
funding Walt Disney Co.’s  acquisitions .  
 “There’s a lot of pressure on companies to ramp up the
revenue line,” said  John Carey , 61, a Boston-based money
manager at Pioneer Investment Management, which oversees about
$230 billion. “They have pretty much done everything they can
on the cost-cutting side so they’ve got to spend more in order
to sell more.”  
 Increased business spending is helping support the recovery
from the worst recession since the 1930s. Capital expenditures
rose an average 11 percent for non-financial companies in the
most recent quarter for which figures were available, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, as declines in advertising and
research and development narrowed.  
 “Free cash flow,” which measures money generated beyond
capital spending, climbed to about $139 billion for those
companies, Bloomberg data show, and some plan to use the money
for share repurchases and dividend increases.  
 Dividends, Share Repurchase  
 Colgate-Palmolive Co.’s  free cash flow before dividends
climbed 9.7 percent to $1.1 billion in the six months through
June, the New York-based company said yesterday.  Microsoft Corp. 
had $4.85 billion in the quarter through June 30, up 63 percent
from a year earlier, and Bloomberg data suggests the Redmond,
Washington-based software maker may  raise its dividend  by 2
cents to 15 cents, the first increase since 2008.  
 Disposable medical-supply maker Becton, Dickinson & Co.
said yesterday it would raise share repurchases to $700 million
from $550 million after the Franklin Lakes, New Jersey-based
company’s  free cash flow  grew 33 percent to $174 million in the
three months through March.  3M Co.  said its free cash flow in
the quarter through June was $958 million.  
 Still, the economic recovery -- and the new round of
corporate spending -- isn’t yet generating job growth in the
U.S. or spurring consumer purchases.  
 Payrolls at non-financial companies dropped 3.75 percent in
2009.  Unemployment  reached a 26-year high of 10.1 percent in
October before settling at 9.5 percent in June, as companies
delayed hiring to gauge the effect of new health-care and
financial regulations and determine whether demand warrants
increasing production.  
 ‘Gloomthink’ Ebbing  
 “There’s kind of a little bit of a gloomthink that’s gone
on out there,” said  Jeffrey Sprague , co-founder of Stamford,
Connecticut-based Vertical Research Partners. “People don’t
want to be overly optimistic, then appear naïve or foolish, but
you can really tell by the tone of what’s going on in these
businesses that in fact the confidence in recovery and the
confidence in the logic of spending a little bit more capital
for growth is clearly increasing.”  
 Caterpillar , which is based in Peoria, Illinois, and is the
world’s largest maker of construction equipment, is paying $820
million for rail and transit company Electro-Motive Diesel and
investing $700 million on developing mining trucks and hydraulic
shovels.  
 “Shareholders don’t typically like companies that sit on a
lot of  cash , so we’ll put that to work,” Chief Executive
Officer  Doug Oberhelman  told Bloomberg Television on July 22.  
 Intel Research  
 He’s not alone.  Intel Corp. , the biggest chipmaker, added
$200 million to its 2010 research budget and as much as $400
million to its plans for equipment spending this month, for a
total of as much as $12 billion.  3M , the St. Paul, Minnesota-
based maker of products from stethoscopes to sandpaper, plans
about $1 billion in capital spending this year, up 11 percent
from a year earlier.  
 Manufacturing companies should invest in production
facilities and capacity so that they are ready to meet increases
in demand, executives and analysts said.  
 “Otherwise, we’ll stifle growth as capacity, not demand,
becomes the new choke point,” 3M CEO  George Buckley  said on a
conference call.  
 Web companies also lifted budgets.  Amazon.com , the biggest
online retailer, boosted capital spending to a record $196
million last quarter as the Seattle-based company built
warehouses and expanded data centers.  
 ‘Billion-Dollar Opportunities’  
 Google Inc. , owner of the world’s most popular search
engine, is investing in new business opportunities including
mobile-phone software and graphical advertising. Research and
development costs rose 27 percent to $898 million in the second-
quarter from the year-ago period.  
 “We have to continue to invest in what are billion-dollar
opportunities,”  Patrick Pichette , the Mountain View,
California-based company’s finance chief, said in an interview.  
 Capital expenditures among non-financial S&P companies
increased an average 11 percent from a year earlier to about $96
billion in the most recently reported quarter, Bloomberg data
show. That compares with an average decline of 3.5 percent from
a year earlier in the previous quarter.  
 The companies’ $1.24 trillion in cash and short-term
investments is up about 5 percent from the end of 2009 and 16
percent from the end of 2008.  
 ‘Signs of Confidence’  
 “There are a number of signs of confidence on the part of
business,” Pioneer money manager Carey said. “We’ve seen
dividend increases, share repurchase, merger and acquisition
activity, and with respect to operational spending, we’ve seen
increased advertising.”  
 General Electric Co. , based in Fairfield, Connecticut, last
week raised its quarterly  dividend  by 20 percent and said it
will resume stock buybacks sooner than officials had predicted.
 KLA-Tencor Corp. , a Milpitas, California-based maker of chip-
production equipment, this month increased its quarterly
dividend by two-thirds, to 25 cents a share from 15 cents.  
 Disney agreed to buy Playdom Inc. for as much as $763.2
million, acquiring the second-biggest maker of games played on
Facebook and MySpace websites and extending its drive into
online and mobile games. Earlier this month, Burbank,
California-based Disney bought Tapulous Inc., a developer of
music-related games for Apple Inc.’s iPod and iPad.  
 UnitedHealth Group Inc. , based in Minnetonka, Minnesota, is
nearing a deal to buy medical services firm Executive Health
Resources Inc. for about $1.5 billion, three people with
knowledge of the talks said this week.  
 ‘Capacity Bottlenecks’  
 Companies are spending “where there is demand for product,
where there are capacity bottlenecks,” said  Brian Barish ,
president of Denver, Colorado-based Cambiar Investors LLC, which
has $5.5 billion under management. “Where companies are being
more cautious is where you need to meet fairly large leap-of-
faith, leap-of-optimism type of expectations.”  
 The U.S. Commerce Department said today the economy
expanded 2.4 percent in the three months through June, down from
an upwardly revised 3.7 percent in the first quarter. Gains in
business investment supported growth in the most recent quarter,
with corporate spending on equipment and software jumping at a
22 percent annual rate, the biggest increase since 1997.  
 The U.S. lost about 8.4 million jobs during the recession
that began in December 2007. While the number of private-sector
jobs increased each month this year, the total of 107.7 million
is about the same as in February 1999.  
 “Corporate balance sheets are in pretty good shape,”  Kurt Kuehn , chief financial officer at  United Parcel Service Inc. ,
said in a July 22 interview. “The consumer is another question.
The more attached to consumers you are, the more risk you may be
feeling as a company.”  
 New Tractors, Jets  
 UPS, the world’s largest package-delivery company, cut
capital spending by about 50 percent in the first half of 2009
from the same period of 2008.  
 This year, the company is buying 300 new tractors for its
freight unit, taking delivery of three new Boeing Co. 767
freighter jets and adding “telematics” data-capture technology
to 10,000 signature brown delivery trucks, said  Norman Black , a
company spokesman.  
 At  FedEx Corp. , which operates the largest air-cargo fleet,
capital expenditures will be $3.2 billion for the year that
started in June, up about 14 percent, with about two-thirds of
that going toward growth initiatives such as new jets, the
Memphis, Tennessee-based company said in a July 15  regulatory
filing .  
 Some companies are now trying to jumpstart consumer
spending by new offerings.  
 Blackjack, Dancing  
 Wynn Resorts  is betting $68 million that a poolside club
offering blackjack, dancing and sunbathing on daybeds with
private safes will lure big-spending partygoers to its Encore
Las Vegas casino resort. Opened Memorial Day weekend, Encore
Beach Club and Surrender Nightclub also have cabanas with flat-
screen TVS and refrigerators, and bungalows with hot tubs.  
 The Las Vegas-based company also plans to invest $80
million remodeling all 2,716 rooms and suites at the Wynn
Resort, which is adjacent to Encore on the Las Vegas Strip and
opened in 2005.  
 Pepsico Inc. plans to spend more starting this year to
innovate and improve quality at its Quaker Foods line, starting
with the texture of oatmeal, CFO  Hugh Johnston  said on a July 20
earnings call. The revamp will include salt and sugar
reductions, a new multigrain oatmeal for adults and Kids
Creations for the youth market, he said.  
 PepsiCo’s  net capital expenditures are projected to
increase to $3.6 billion this year after the Purchase, New York-
based company tightened them 13 percent to $2.13 billion in
2009. The company is focusing on new products and expansion in
emerging markets such as China.  
 ‘You Weren’t Ready’  
 Corporate spending is “consistent with the early phases of
the economic expansion where not every single data point is
pointing straight up,” Cambiar Investors’ Barish said.  
 Executives want to make sure their businesses are prepared
to meet demand so that potential revenue isn’t blocked by cost-
cutting measures of the past two years.  
 “If you just went through a terrible 18-month recession
and you didn’t have any orders and your sales were depressed,
the last thing you want to do is all of a sudden figure that
demand has recovered and you can’t ship stuff because you
weren’t ready and the order is going to your competitor,”
Vertical Research’s Sprague said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Will Daley  in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Steve Wynn, chairman and chief executive officer of Wynn Resorts Ltd., speaks during the Milken Institute Global Conference 2009 in Los Angeles. Photographer: Jamie Rector/Bloomberg News  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Rick Wallace, chief executive officer of KLA-Tencor Corp., talks about his company's fourth-quarter earnings released yesterday and the outlook for the U.S. economy.
     Wallace, speaking with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton, also discusses KLA-Tencor's global strategy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A Caterpillar Inc. bulldozer operate at the Uyuni Salt Flat in Uyuni, Bolivia. Photographer: Noah Friedman-Rudovsky/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
