-- BNP Paribas May Say Profit Little Changed as Retail Gains Offset Trading
-- Fabio Benedetti-Valentini
-- 2010-07-30T09:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/bnp-paribas-may-say-profit-little-changed-as-retail-gains-offset-trading.html

          
          
             BNP Paribas SA , France’s biggest
bank, may report second-quarter profit that was little changed
from a year earlier as higher consumer-banking earnings in
Belgium and the U.S. cushioned a slump in trading.  
 BNP Paribas will probably say on Aug. 2 that  net income  was
1.61 billion euros ($2.1 billion), according to the median
estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Societe
Generale SA , France’s No. 2 bank by market value, may say on
Aug. 4 profit more than doubled to 657 million euros, a separate
survey showed.  
 European banks  rallied  in the past week as all but seven of
91 European Union lenders passed stress tests, and as regulators
said they would soften rules proposed for the industry. French
banks are among the biggest beneficiaries of the changes in
proposed rules on capital and liquidity announced July 26 by the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, analysts said.  
 “To extend this performance, they need to have a confident
message on credit quality,” said  Benoit de Broissia , who helps
manage about $2 billion at KBL Richelieu Gestion in Paris and
holds shares in both banks. “The stocks rallied on an
improvement of the risk premium, not on results.”  
 BNP Paribas  rose 7.2 percent to 53.40 euros from July 23,
the day regulators released the stress tests results, through
yesterday.  Societe Generale  climbed 18 percent and  Credit
Agricole  SA, the third-largest bank in France by market value,
jumped 13 percent. All three are based in Paris.  
 Trading Slowdown  
 BNP Paribas and Societe Generale, like competitors such as
 Deutsche Bank AG  and  Credit Suisse Group AG , probably had a drop
in trading revenue in the quarter as concerns about swollen
budget deficits led investors to pummel the bonds of Greece,
Spain and Portugal and roil stock markets.  
 The equity-derivatives and fixed-income businesses of both
French banks probably recorded lower revenue, de Broissia said.  
 “The conditions in the markets were stressed in the second
quarter,” said  Brice Vandamme , a London-based analyst at
Deutsche Bank who has a “buy” rating on BNP Paribas and
Societe Generale. “That’s improving. The third quarter should
be less weak than the second.”  
 Pretax  profit  at BNP Paribas’s corporate- and investment-
banking division probably fell 14 percent to 1.19 billion euros
as earnings at its advisory and capital markets business fell 51
percent to 716 million euros, analysts estimated. Societe
Generale’s corporate- and investment-bank probably had a 284
million-euro profit in the quarter, a 67 percent decline from a
year earlier, according to the analysts.  
 Fortis, BancWest  
 At BNP Paribas, headed by Chief Executive Officer  Baudouin Prot , increased consumer-banking earnings tied to its  purchase 
of Fortis operations and a return to profit at the U.S. retail
unit offset the slump at the investment bank, the analysts’
survey showed. Societe Generale’s earnings look set to bounce
back after results last year suffered from charges related to an
improvement in its own debt, according to analysts.  
 BNP’s  Fortis  consumer-banking assets probably had a 189
million-euro pretax profit in the second quarter, compared with
a 26 million-euro loss, analysts estimated. BancWest, BNP
Paribas’s U.S. branch network, probably had a 79 million-euro
profit, compared with a 62 million-euro loss last year.  
 Within BNP Paribas’s corporate- and investment-banking
unit, the financing business probably had a 472 million-euro
pretax profit compared with an 80 million-euro loss last year,
according to the analyst survey.  
 Investment Bank  
 At  Societe Generale , the corporate- and investment-banking
unit represented more than 50 percent of first-quarter profit,
compared to 44 percent at BNP Paribas.  
 “For Societe Generale, CIB weighs more and therefore in
general it probably suffered more from second-quarter market
conditions,” de Broissia said.  
 Societe Generale’s earnings were dragged down in the year-
earlier period by markdowns, including 840 million euros on
credit default swaps used to hedge its corporate loan book and a
459 million-euro charge triggered by an improvement in its own
debt, the bank said last August.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fabio Benedetti-Valentini  in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        