-- Bogusky Turns Back on Career as Advertising Fails to Reveal Deeper Truth
-- Susan Berfield
-- 2010-07-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/bogusky-turns-back-on-career-as-advertising-fails-to-reveal-deeper-truth.html

          
          
             On June 30,  Alex Bogusky  went for a
bike ride in the hills outside Boulder, Colorado, then made his
way downtown to the century-old house-cum-studio he had
renovated and dubbed FearLess Cottage. Once inside, he called
 Miles Nadal , his boss in Toronto, and resigned.  
 Bogusky was 46. Adweek had named him creative director of
the decade, and the advertising agency he helped build,  Crispin
Porter + Bogusky , had more than $1 billion in billings. He held
a dream title of his own making, chief creative insurgent. His
salary was close to $2 million, a person familiar with the
events tells Bloomberg Businessweek in its Aug. 2 edition.  
 The conversation with Nadal, the owner of CP+B parent
company MDC Partners, was followed by an e-mail that Nadal made
public on his personal blog. Bogusky, who helped create the
antismoking “Truth” ad campaign, said he appreciated that
Nadal saw him “as a friend who wants to try something new.” He
signed it, “Love, Alex.”  
 Then Bogusky and his wife, Ana, spent much of the afternoon
sitting on their porch contemplating what he had just done.  
 MDC relied on CP+B for at least a quarter of its
$546 million in revenue last year, and Nadal often referred to
Bogusky as the  Steve Jobs  of the industry.  
 In a statement to Bloomberg Businessweek, MDC concluded:
“Our future has never looked brighter and neither has Alex’s.”
MDC wouldn’t grant an interview to discuss exactly how bright
its future would be without the most famous name in advertising.  
 Blog Posts  
 Bogusky declined to comment for this story as well. Even
so, clues to his state of mind are revealed in interviews with
industry peers, co-workers and family members. There are also
hints about why clients such as Best Buy Co.,  Burger King
Holdings Inc. , Domino’s Pizza Inc., Microsoft Corp. and Kraft
Foods Inc., which had just awarded its Macaroni & Cheese account
to CP+B, didn’t want to say much about him.  
 Perhaps the most telling of Bogusky’s statements before
resigning was a blog post calling for a ban on advertising to
kids. In it, he pointed to the child-friendly marketing at
Miami-based Burger King, one of CP+B’s biggest accounts. Bogusky
had a reputation for pushing clients, employees and even
consumers right to the edge. This time he went over.  
 Bogusky spent his entire career at one agency, one he had
known since he was a child. His father, Bill, was a graphic
designer in Miami whose main client was a local firm, Crispin
Porter. Bill Bogusky says that at age 3 Alex drew “an
incredibly perfect caricature” of him, which Bill still has in
his home studio. As a teenager, Alex devoted himself to dirt
bike racing and motocross.  
 Rising Star  
 “I thought the racing was outrageously stupid,” says
Bill, who nonetheless served as Alex’s crew and sponsor. “Then
one day he said he wanted to be a graphic artist like me. He
sent off his bikes and went to art school in Atlanta.”  
 After a semester, Alex returned to Miami and joined the
Bogusky studio, where he soon caught  Chuck Porter ’s attention.
In 1989, when he was 26, he was invited to join Porter’s agency.
He was Employee 16. Five years later he became creative
director; by 1997, he was a partner.  
 While Crispin Porter was small and unknown to Madison
Avenue, Bogusky and Porter were ambitious. (Sam Crispin retired
in 1991.) The agency’s first big break came in the late 1990s
when it put together a series of antismoking ads for teenagers
in Florida funded by the cigarette companies’ settlement with
the U.S. government. The Truth campaign told kids they were
being played by tobacco executives, and the number of young
smokers dropped.  
 Truth Campaign  
 Bogusky’s creative partner when the campaign went national
was Pete Favat, now chief creative officer at Arnold Worldwide.  
 “Alex called us brothers born in outer space who came to
earth to screw with the ad world,” Favat says.  
 The Truth campaign won industry honors, including an Effie
Award, which brought all sorts of clients and employees to
Miami. It also brought Nadal, who in 2001 paid about $20 million
in cash and stock for a 49 percent stake in the agency. He now
owns it outright.  
 CP+B’s first attention-getting corporate account was
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG’s Mini Cooper. Bogusky introduced
Americans to the cars by putting them on top of SUVs, in stadium
seats and outside department stores as kids’ rides; he produced
an online mockumentary about how to spot a counterfeit Mini.  
 When CP+B won the Burger King account in 2004, America’s
second-largest burger chain had been trying with scant success
to revive the brand.  
 Subservient Chicken  
 “The guys at CP+B absolutely loved the fact that we were a
challenger,” says  Brian Gies , who was a senior executive in
Burger King’s marketing department at the time and has since
left the company. They conceived of  Subservient Chicken , the
website that invites viewers to order around a man dressed in a
chicken costume. It was one of the first ad sites to go viral,
getting more than 15 million hits in the first five days and
almost half a billion since.  
 “We wanted to develop our social currency, to stimulate
curiosity,” Gies says. “Subservient Chicken was a pretty
unexpected but compelling approach to talk about ‘Chicken Your
Way.’ ”  
 After that, Bogusky got Burger King executives to
reintroduce the King as a masked character who was creepy and
silent and hard to ignore. He was just as bold with Volkswagen
AG, persuading the carmaker to run ads featuring a realistic
crash in which no one was hurt. The tagline: “Safe happens.”  
 Controlled Message  
 Bogusky was in total control in the office in Coconut Grove,
which was just minutes away from the ocean by skateboard or
bike. Bogusky himself might come in on Mondays with a bloody
bruise from biking. He was charismatic and intense, good-looking
enough to command attention and talented enough to make his
unconventional style acceptable.  
 For years, he checked every piece of work. His opinions were
orders, and when he reviewed a campaign, the veterans knew to
take notes.  
 “He wasn’t trying to be an a--hole,” says  Evan Fry , a
creative director who left CP+B last fall to start his own shop.
“If you were secure, you would have no trouble.”  
 A sign on Bogusky’s door read: “If you want someone to
make you happy, see your therapist. If you want someone to make
your ads better, see me.”  
 As the agency grew to almost 1,000 employees and won award
after award, Bogusky became a somewhat reluctant icon for an
 advertising industry  going through tumultuous times.  
 In 2006, Bogusky and his wife, whom he had met at the
agency, decided they wanted to raise their two kids in Boulder.
He threatened to quit if not allowed to open an office there.
Later that year, he took about 50 members of the creative team
with him to Boulder. Before long, some 550 people had relocated.  
 Beginning to Disengage  
 Then something changed for Bogusky. In early 2008 he began
to disengage, giving up day-to-day responsibilities but keeping
an eye on the creative work.  
 While CP+B was making ads about “Whopper freakouts” and
perfecting ways to order Domino’s pizzas from a laptop on a
couch, Bogusky was finishing a book. In late 2008 he released
“The 9-Inch ‘Diet’: Exposing the Big Conspiracy in America.”  
 The back cover promises: “The best tricksters in the
industry explain how you as a consumer are being duped and how
you are actually part of the conspiracy to make you fat.”  
 Many assumed the book was satire or even an elaborate
advertisement. It was neither. The “9-Inch” of the title
refers to the average diameter of a dinner plate in America in
1970; today the size is one-third larger. Bogusky hadn’t told
any clients, or Nadal, that he was writing a book.  
 9-Inch Diet  
 “Burger King and other clients didn’t ever figure into our
discussions,” says Daniel Power, whose powerHouse Books
published the book. “His idea was: ‘We have obligations to our
clients, but we can be active agents in the world. Some things
we do for a living, and some things have to be challenged.’ ”  
 In a 2008 interview with BusinessWeek, Bogusky called the
disconnect between his book and his Burger King work “maybe a
bit of creative tension.” Fry, who worked closely with him,
says Bogusky “had to do some damage control.”  
 A Burger King spokeswoman declined to comment.  
 Bogusky continued to move farther away from the corporate
hand that had been feeding him. He became interested in climate
change. He read about the industrialization of food, the
politicization of education. He invested in a Boulder company,
Justin’s Nut Butter, that makes organic peanut butter sold in
jars and single-serve packs.  
 Founder Justin Gold recalls the adman asking him the first
time they met, “Doesn’t it suck that you have this amazing
organic product in this totally unsustainable package?” Says
Gold: “It was the thing you don’t want to talk about. He went
right for it.”  
 Ready to Leave  
 By the end of 2009, Bogusky was ready to leave CP+B, but
Nadal wasn’t ready to let him go.  
 According to a person familiar with the matter, Nadal
offered him a three-year contract potentially valued at
$20 million. Bogusky wasn’t interested. Eventually they worked
out an agreement: Bogusky would take one step further back from
the agency and become the part-time chief creative insurgent at
MDC. Nadal declined to comment.  
 On Jan. 7, Bogusky called  Colin Drummond , then head of
account planning at CP+B, into his office to tell him the news.  
 “I was shocked,” Drummond recalls. “Alex was pretty
matter-of-fact. He wasn’t emotional. I knew of his desire to
look beyond advertising. He thinks about something for a long
time, but he keeps quiet. Then when he makes a decision, he acts
very swiftly.”  
 Next Steps  
 They talked about what Bogusky might do next, which seemed
wide open and didn’t have much to do with MDC. Except in this
way, says Drummond: “He said that he told Miles to fire him if
he said anything that would potentially upset any MDC clients.”  
 The next morning the seven CP+B partners held a town hall
meeting in Boulder. “Alex didn’t say he was leaving the agency
quite as directly as he did with me,” Drummond recalls. “He
smoothed it over, saying that he would still have an office at
CP+B. He wanted the clients and employees to feel that it wasn’t
a big deal, and the industry too.”  
 Bogusky continued to influence life at CP+B. He got the
agency involved in a bike-sharing program in Denver and brought
in a Buddhist to lead mindfulness sessions.  
 The dissonance between his avocation and his vocation was
increasing. When he spoke at a gathering of environmentalists in
California in April, Bogusky opened: “Many of us are in this
imperfect situation where we make decisions within corporations
and then we go outside and have to deal with it.” That month he
also received at least $10 million for his remaining CP+B stake.  
 Turning on the Industry  
 By June it was clear Bogusky wasn’t just leaving the
industry, he was turning on it. While most of his peers were at
the annual Cannes Lions International Advertising Festival, he
was advocating on his blog for a ban on advertising to kids.  
 He named names, citing Oak Brook, Illinois-based McDonald’s
Corp. and Burger King, still a CP+B client. Then he sent the
post by e-mail to Porter in Cannes.  
 Porter has spoken about Bogusky and the piece just once, to
Advertising Age: “I told him it was well written and made some
great points, but I also said he needs to make a choice because
it’s not [compatible with the business we’re in]. And the next
morning he sent me a note saying, ‘I resigned like you
recommended.’”  
 In the days after his resignation, there was among his
colleagues a sometimes uneasy recognition of the dilemma Bogusky
had found himself in.  
 Aware of Conflict  
 “He was definitely aware that there would be a conflict
when he expressed these thoughts,” Drummond says. “He wants to
see systems change. Who wouldn’t?”  
 Bogusky’s decision leaves CP+B without its Jobs, and the
first big test of its ability to cope is likely to be with
Bogusky’s signature client. Burger King recently appointed a new
head of marketing and is fighting with its franchisees, in part
over the direction of its advertising.  
 “Miles says the relationship with Burger King is solid,
but I don’t believe it is completely stable,” says Jim Edwards,
the former managing editor of Adweek who now writes about the ad
world for BNET Industries. “If CP+B can stabilize it and sales
go up, then all is well. If they lose Burger King, then they’ve
lost their biggest client and their spiritual father. And that’s
a lot of trouble to be in.”  
 From FearLess Cottage, Bogusky sends out periodic messages
to the world, offering glimpses of his future ambitions in
sometimes cryptic blog posts and homemade videos. In mid-July he
interviewed Robyn O’Brien, author of “The Unhealthy Truth: How
Our Food Is Making Us Sick -- And What We Can Do About It,” and
focused on genetically modified soybeans.  
 “God created all these seeds but never got around to
monetizing that s--t. God’s a bad capitalist. So we said, let us
show you how it’s done,” he said, to the bemusement of his
guest. “We have a right to critique a food system created by a
corporation.”  
 “What if things don’t turn out well and your kids come to
you and ask: ‘What did you do to try to stop this?’”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Berfield  in New York at 
 sberfield@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Bogusky Turns Back on Career  
                       
                         
                           alexbogusky.com via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Alex Bogusky, former creative director of Crispin Porter & Bogusky advertising agency. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Alex Bogusky, former creative director of Crispin Porter & Bogusky advertising agency. Source: alexbogusky.com via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
