-- Boyd Gaming Abandons Bid for Station Casinos Assets
-- Beth Jinks
-- 2010-07-30T22:28:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/boyd-gaming-drops-bid-for-station-casinos-assets-ahead-of-august-auction.html

          
          
             Boyd Gaming Corp.  abandoned its bid
for some assets of  Station Casinos Inc. , the biggest U.S.
gambling company in bankruptcy, citing concerns with the court-
approved auction conditions.  
 “We have concluded this opportunity no longer makes sense
for our company,” Chief Executive Officer  Keith Smith  said
today in a statement. He cited “bidding procedures that
favor Station insiders” and the properties’ limited potential
as reasons.  
 Boyd was the biggest known rival to efforts by Station’s
existing owners to retain control of all of its casinos after
bankruptcy. Today was the deadline for bidders to submit their
offers before a Nevada judge oversees an Aug. 6 auction of most
of Station’s casinos. The owners, the founding Fertitta family
and Colony Capital LLC, are opening bidding with $772 million of
new equity.  
 Five other casinos, the company’s most profitable, would be
taken over by the same owners and their banks without an auction
in exchange for a cash payment and the cancellation of some
debt.  
 Boyd said it objected to bid requirements including paying
for leased land, and allowing the existing owners’ to retain
information technology and customer lists, and “hire away any
or all employees and executives.”  
 Boyd’s Pursuit  
 Boyd Gaming “will only pursue transactions that are
financially sound, fit well with our existing business, and
offer attractive long-term returns for our shareholders,” Smith
said. “Clearly, this opportunity no longer meets these
criteria.”  
 Boyd had pursued Station since February 2009, making a
preliminary bid weeks after the Las Vegas-based casino company
proposed filing for bankruptcy in collaboration with its
lenders. Talks with other creditors failed and Station
ultimately filed for Chapter 11 protection last July,
overwhelmed by debt added when it was taken private by Fertitta
management and Colony Capital in November 2007 for $8.5 billion.  
 Boyd in December offered $2.45 billion in cash and assumed
debt for all of Station Casinos, and was rebuffed in favor of
the court process.  
 The case is In re Station Casinos Inc., 09-52477, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Reno).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Beth Jinks  in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        