-- Virgin, British Airways Boost Fares as Business Flyers Return
-- Steve Rothwell
-- 2010-07-30T12:23:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/british-airways-first-quarter-loss-widens-on-cabin-crew-strikes-ash-cloud.html

          
          
             Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. and
 British Airways Plc , the biggest long-distance carriers at
London’s Heathrow airport, said they’ve been able to raise fares
as a jump in demand for business travel boosts forward bookings.  
 Yields, a measure of average prices, surged 14 percent in
the three months ended June 30, British Airways Chief Executive
Officer  Willie Walsh  said today. Virgin CEO  Steve Ridgway  said
yields have risen across all classes, with premium sales more
buoyant as companies let their employees book costlier seats.  
 “We’re seeing yields recover right across the aircraft,”
Ridgway said in an interview. “Capacity is better matched to the
reality of the market and that’s making a difference. Business
traffic volumes have also recovered and some companies have
backed off from some of their more stringent travel policies.”  
 Virgin’s sales rose 10 percent to 513 million pounds ($801
million) in the three months to May 31, helped by a 5 percent
gain in its share of the business market as flyers switched from
strike-hit British Airways on routes including New York-London,
Ridgway said. Walsh said passenger revenue would have jumped 11
percent without the walkouts and a volcanic eruption in Iceland.  
 London-based British Airways was trading up 2.5 percent at
221.4 pence as of 11:29 a.m. in the U.K. capital. Shares of
Europe’s third-biggest airline have gained 18 percent this year,
valuing it at 2.55 billion pounds. Virgin is closely held.  
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG, the regional No. 2, said yesterday
that yields rose 7.4 percent in first half, led by a 13 percent
advance on trans-Atlantic routes, returning almost to pre-slump
levels. The stock was trading up 0.5 percent today.  
 Less Austere  
 “The yields are really positive,” said  John Strickland ,
an analyst at JLS Consulting Ltd. in London. “If they can do
that against a backdrop of the ash cloud and strikes then it’s
positive news in a difficult context.”  
 The New York market “has recovered very well,” Virgin’s
Ridgway said in the interview, though a 4 percent gain in the
carrier’s market share there was a result of “BA’s woes.”
Passenger numbers in Virgin’s Upper Class business seats rose 15
percent in its fiscal first quarter, according to the CEO.  
 Laurie  Price, an analyst at Mott MacDonald Ltd. in London,
said the upturn in fares indicates an easing of the austerity
measures imposed by companies during the economic slump.  
 “After the recession people started to move to the back of
the plane, but I think that trend is starting to reverse,”
Price said. “So whereas airlines had been discounting, now they
aren’t having to.”  
 Net Loss  
 The cabin-crew strikes and volcanic plume cost British
Airways 250 million pounds, the company said in a statement,
causing its first-quarter net loss to widen to 122 million
pounds from 106 million pounds a year earlier, with sales
slipping 2.3 percent to 1.94 billion pounds.  
 That still beat analyst  estimates  for a loss of 167.5
million pounds on sales of 1.89 billion pounds. The airline, No.
1 on the North Atlantic market, said it aims to break even at
pre-tax level for the full year, reiterating existing guidance.  
 “We’ve improved our underlying revenue performance in the
quarter with increased yields and lower costs,” Walsh said on a
conference call. “ We must continue to lower costs as revenue
grows. Introducing permanent structural change across the
airline remains our priority.”  
 An 18-month dispute over staffing levels and pay for 12,000
British Airways cabin crew spilled over into strikes in March
and affected services on 22 days, mainly in the first quarter.  
 The cancellations were compounded by the April eruption of
Iceland’s Eyjafjallajökull volcano, which spewed ash across
Europe, closing the Heathrow hub. Virgin’s costs from lost
flights were 30 million pounds, and the carrier also had an
operating loss of 132 million pounds in the year ended Feb. 28
as sales fell 9 percent to 2.36 billion pounds, it said today.  
 Travel Perks  
 British Airways flight attendants rejected the latest pay
proposals from Walsh on July 20 following a postal ballot,
raising the possibility of further walkouts as negotiations
resume next week. The Unite union has said the terms on offer
might be acceptable if travel perks removed from striking
workers are restored. Walsh said today that there’s no prospect
of that and that his plan forms a sound basis for a deal.  
 Passenger traffic at British Airways fell 11.4 percent in
June after the first nine days of the month were hurt by
strikes, with travel decreasing 9 percent in premium seats and
11 percent in coach. The carrier will operate a “significant
percentage” of its flights in any fresh walkout, including all
long-haul trips, the CEO said on the conference call.  
 “The headline numbers may not look great, but for the
first time in goodness-knows-when the focus should now be on how
the business is trading, rather than crisis management,” said
 Douglas McNeill , an analyst at Charles Stanley in London.  
 AMR, Iberia  
 British Airways won U.S. antitrust approval for a revenue-
sharing alliance with AMR Corp.’s American Airlines on July 20,
realizing a plan that had been stymied in 1997 and 2001.  
 A merger between the U.K. carrier and  Iberia Lineas Aereas
de Espana SA  of Spain is also due to close this year pending
shareholder approval.  
 Air France-KLM Group, Europe’s biggest carrier, this week
reported quarterly net income of 736 million euros ($962
million), positive for the first time in almost two years, as
earnings were swelled by a 1.03 billion-euro gain from its stake
in the Amadeus flight-booking system.  
 Lufthansa’s net income more than doubled to 194 million
euros on the yield recovery and a surge in cargo shipments.  
 “We had a good first quarter and the summer is looking
strong,” Virgin’s Ridgway said. “Are these trends going to
continue or will we see consumer demand change? At the moment,
it’s a case of ‘so far, so good.”  
 ----With assistance from  Maryam Nemazee  in London and 
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt. Editors:  Chris Jasper , 
 Kenneth Wong .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     “We’ve improved our underlying revenue performance in the quarter with increased yields and lower costs,” Walsh said. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- John Strickland, director and aviation consultant at JLS Consulting, talks about British Airways Plc's first-quarter loss and the outlook for further industrial action.
     The net loss was 122 million pounds ($191 million) in the three months ended June 30, widening from 106 million pounds a year earlier, British Airways said. Strickland speaks with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Cabin crew rejected the latest pay proposals from Walsh on July 20 following a postal ballot, raising the possibility of further walkouts as negotiations resume next week. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
