-- Brookfield to Exit Housing, Pursues Pure Office Play
-- David M. Levitt
-- 2010-07-30T18:57:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/brookfield-properties-refocuses-with-16-australian-office-assets-purchase.html

          
          
             Brookfield Properties Corp., the
commercial real estate landlord with $1.2 billion in residential
assets, plans to exit the housing business to focus on owning
and running office space worldwide.  
 Brookfield is in talks to merge its Carma Development unit,
known for building homes in oil-rich towns of western Canada and
Texas, with Brookfield Asset Management’s Brookfield Homes Corp.
Brookfield Properties also plans to pay Brookfield Asset
Management $1.4 billion for a 41 percent stake in 16  Australian
office  holdings, the companies said in statements today.  
 Brookfield Properties, a subsidiary of Toronto-based
Brookfield Asset Management, will change its name to Brookfield
Office Properties Inc. to reflect the shift in focus.  
 “What we envision is having the -- or one of the --
highest quality collections of office assets in the most
important developed countries in the world,” Brookfield
Properties Chief Executive Officer Richard “Ric” Clark said on
a conference call. “Not in every market, but very focused on
the best, most resilient markets.”  
 The U.S., Canada, Australia and the U.K are target markets,
he said.  
 Selling Brookfield Properties’ home-building unit, which
the New York-based company said in a separate statement today
contributed about $33 million in revenue in the second quarter,
will free the landlord to invest more in offices.  
 ‘Ton of Sense’  
 “It makes a ton of sense,”  Karine MacIndoe , a Toronto-
based real estate analyst with BMO Capital Markets, said today
in a telephone interview. “There’s a fair amount of distress
coming down the pipeline related to debt refinancing that these
guys could take advantage of, and having global exposure could
help in that.”  
 She rates the shares “outperform.”  
 Expanding into Australia and the U.K. puts Brookfield in
harmony with multinational corporations who need office space in
financial capitals, said Clark.  
 “Major businesses that are involved in real estate
decision making, we find, are located in one of our major
cities,” Clark said. “It’s typically one person who’s in
charge of those things.”  
 Brookfield Office will have stakes in 62 U.S. office sites,
31 in Canada, 16 in Australia and one in the U.K.  
 Ten of the Australian holdings it’s investing in are in
Sydney, four in Melbourne and two in Perth. The purchase is
forecast to close in the third quarter, Brookfield Properties
said.  
 Nussbaum’s Opposition  
 The overall plan is “a net negative to shareholders,” UBS
real estate analyst  Ross Nussbaum  said in a note to investors
today.  
 “Expense synergies are unlikely,” he wrote. “We see
added complexity and a less focused management team. Additional
foreign exchange exposure is undesirable.”  
 Brookfield Properties second-quarter funds from operations
climbed nearly 70 percent to $209 million, or 40 cents a share,
it said today in a separate news release. The shares were little
changed at $15.53 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading
at 2:36 p.m.  
 FFO is a measure of cash flow that excludes depreciation
and other items. It doesn’t conform to generally accepted
accounting principles.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David M. Levitt  in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
     
         Audio Download:  BMO Capital's MacIndoe Discusses Brookfield Properties 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
