-- Bush Tax Cuts for Wealthy Should Stay, Pence Says in Interview(Transcript)
-- 
-- 2010-07-30T19:50:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/bush-tax-cuts-for-wealthy-should-stay-pence-says-in-interview-transcript-.html

          
          
             Indiana Representative Mike Pence,
the third-ranking House Republican leader, said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with Al Hunt”
airing this weekend that Congress should extend President George
W. Bush’s tax cuts without offsetting the $40 billion cost of
including families earning more than $250,000.  
 (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  
 AL HUNT: We begin the program with Congressman Mike Pence,
the chairman of the House Republican Conference. Congressman,
thank you for being with us.  
 REP. MIKE PENCE: Thank you, Al.  
 HUNT: Less than 100 days before the mid-term elections. As
of today, what are the odds you’ll take control of the House?  
 PENCE: I think House Republicans believe we have a genuine
opportunity to win back the majority of the House of
Representatives.  
 HUNT: Likely?  
 PENCE: I’ll leave that to the pundits and the handicappers.
We believe we have a genuine opportunity to win back the
American Congress for common sense and common values of the
broad majority of the American people.  
 People are tired of the borrowing and the spending, the
bailouts, the government takeovers, and the Republicans have
candidates all across this country that are going to be carrying
our message to virtually every congressional district in the
country. And we’re hopeful, but it’s not over yet.  
 HUNT: You’re part of the leadership. If you do take
control, what will be the first two or three priorities a
Republican majority would move on?  
 PENCE: I think the priorities of the American people are to
get this economy moving again and to get federal spending under
control, creating jobs, reining in the enormous deficit spending
that’s taken place, frankly, under successive administrations -  
 HUNT: Would one of the top priorities be to repeal the
health-care bill?  
 PENCE: I believe House Republicans are going to work to
repeal Obamacare lock, stock and barrel. Obviously, the
president will be in office in 2011. He certainly would have the
ability to veto any effort that we make.  
 But whether it’s using the power of the purse or engaging a
national debate about starting over with health-care reform that
focuses on lowering the cost of health insurance rather than
growing the size of government, Republicans will make that a
leading priority in the next Congress.  
 HUNT: Your colleague, Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, says that the
party is running away from big ideas like privatizing Medicare
and Social Security. I’m going to quote him, “They - you’re
talking about Republicans - are talking to their pollsters and
their pollsters are saying stay away from this. We’re going to
win an election.” Is Paul Ryan right, no agenda, really?  
 PENCE: House Republicans are talking to the American
people. We’re listening to the American people. We actually
initiated a project online at AmericaSpeakingOut.com where we’re
inviting the American people to bring their ideas forward. Many
of those ideas are going to be a part of a governing agenda that
we develop.  
 And there’s going to be big ideas. There’s going to be very
specific ideas in that. But I think it’s all going to center
around the need to get this economy moving again with
traditional policies of growth and to get federal spending under
control.  
 HUNT: Well, then is he right? Should you stay away from
issues like privatizing Social Security?  
 PENCE: Look, the reality is to put our nation on a pathway
for fiscal sustainability and growth. We have to have an honest
conversation with the American people about both fiscal
discipline and reform.  
 HUNT: Everybody seems to be for - most people say they’re
for fiscal discipline, but it gets hard when it’s in your
district. Let me give you one example for you. You went to the
House floor to defend money for a second engine for the Joint
Strike Fighter -  
 PENCE: Right.  
 HUNT: - a factory in your district. The Pentagon says it
doesn’t want it. The other day a Tea Party group - this is a Tea
Party group - said of this project, it’s an example of
“opportunistic parasite feeding on the expansion of government.”
Tough stuff.  
 PENCE: Well, sure. And everyone’s entitled to their own
opinion, but - and not entitled to their own facts. The reality
is, and the Heritage Foundation produced a very important study
on this, is that it is believed that when you were talking about
a military defense contract that will span decades of time, it
is in the interest of taxpayers in the long run to have more
than one source, more than one manufacturer of that engine.  
 The fact that one of those two engines in part is
manufactured in Indiana, we certainly welcome. We’re proud of
those jobs. But at the end of the day, I really do believe that
it was in the interest of our national defense.  
 HUNT: Let me talk about the tax cuts. As you know, they’re
coming up. We’ll be joined - the issue will be joined fully
probably in September. Republicans have been very passionate
about paying for things like unemployment compensation expense.
If you were to extend the tax cut for the upper bracket -  
 PENCE: Right.  
 HUNT: - which affects a lot of people, will you create -
will you pay for them with an offset, another tax increase or a
spending cut specifically by $40 billion a year?  
 PENCE: Well, as I said before, I really believe the
priorities of the American people today are job creation and
fiscal discipline, and I believe that it’s in that order. I
think the American people know we’re never going to balance this
federal budget again unless we get this economy growing.  
 And the very idea that we would allow taxes to increase on
job creators in this country on January 1st of next year, I
think, is astounding to most Americans. The last thing you want
to do in the worst economy in 25 years is raise taxes on people
that create jobs in the city and on the farm.  
 HUNT: But the budget rules say you have to for those in the
upper brackets. So what do you do? Do you waive the budget rules
or you come up with the $40 billion offset?  
 PENCE: Well, I believe it is imperative that we preserve
the tax relief. I also believe that if we get the economy moving
again and provide both tax relief and reform going forward, that
as the economy expands federal revenues will expand.  
 When John F. Kennedy cut marginal rates, when Ronald Reagan
cut margins rates, when George W. Bush passed these pro-growth
tax cuts, we saw the economy expand, we saw revenues increase.  
 And so I believe that the priority should be on job
creation, but we also shouldn’t be tied to the static analysis
of budget calculators here in Washington, D.C. I think if we get
the economy growing again, we’re going to grow revenues and
reduce deficits as a result.  
 HUNT: So for that short term, you would waive the budget
rules for that?  
 PENCE: I think it’s imperative that we ensure that no
American sees a tax increase during this difficult economy.  
 HUNT: Erskine Bowles co-chaired that presidential
commission on deficit reduction said that three-quarters of
deficit reduction should come from spending, one-quarter from
taxes. Do you agree?  
 PENCE: Well, let me say that’s a good start. I’ve been
following the commission’s work and dialogue over the last
several months. I’m intrigued about the fact that they seem to
be embracing an idea that Congressman Jeb Hensarling and I
proposed with a spending limit amendment to the Constitution. We
suggested that it’s time for fence lines -  
 HUNT: Right.  
 PENCE: - around what the federal government can consume of
this economy. But quite frankly, I think any proposal that would
result in a tax increase on working families, small businesses,
or family farms would be wrong-headed. We ought to be talking
about fiscal discipline and tax reform.  
 HUNT: So, 100% should come from spending?  
 PENCE: Well, no. I think, Al, what we ought to be talking
about is fiscal discipline in Washington, D.C., which would
include discipline on discretionary spending, would include
entitlement reform, but also, I think, tax reform and relief
that would encourage growth. But raising taxes during the worst
economy in 25 years is a profoundly bad idea and I won’t support
it.  
 HUNT: Even if Erskine Bowles says three-quarters spending
and one-quarter taxes? You say no, nothing on taxes - or tax
increases.  
 PENCE: Well, yes. If they’re talking about one-quarter tax
increases --.  
 HUNT: Right.  
 PENCE: - they’ll find very little support among Republicans
on Capitol Hill for raising taxes.  
 HUNT: Congressman Pence of Indiana, thank you so much for
being with us. When we come back, we’ll talk to our reporters
about the economy and Afghanistan.  
 ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  
 THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP.  
 #<610771.1204164.2.1.46.17993.25>#
-0- Jul/30/2010 19:50 GMT
  
          
          


  


        