-- Business Activity in U.S. Expanded Faster in July
-- Shobhana Chandra
-- 2010-07-30T15:17:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/business-activity-in-u-s-unexpectedly-expands-at-faster-pace-index-shows.html

          
          
             Business  activity  in the U.S.
expanded in July at a faster pace than projected, signaling
manufacturing is driving growth in the world’s largest economy.  
 The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its business barometer rose to 62.3 this month, exceeding the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, after
59.1 in June. Figures greater than 50 signal expansion.  
 Rising demand in developing countries is lifting factory
output and causing manufacturers like  Caterpillar Inc.  to raise
earnings forecasts. The report may help reduce concern an easing
in consumer spending would lead to a broader economic slowdown.  
 “Export growth is still pretty strong and domestic demand
has shown some gains,” said  Jim O’Sullivan , chief economist at
MF Global Ltd. in New York. “There probably will be some fading
of the inventory boost” that spurred manufacturing, he said.  
 A Commerce Department report today showed growth slowed to
a 2.4 percent annual rate in the second quarter, less than
forecast, reflecting a larger trade deficit and an easing in
consumer spending.  
 Economy Slows  
 The increase in gross domestic product compared with a
median forecast of 2.6 percent of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg and follows a revised 3.7 percent pace in the first
quarter that showed a jump in inventories, according to the
report. Business investment climbed at the fastest rate since
1997.  
 Another report today showed the Thomson Reuters/University
of Michigan final index of consumer sentiment declined to 67.8
in July, the lowest level since November, posing a threat to the
biggest part of the economy. The gauge fell from 76 a month
earlier, and compared with a preliminary July measure of 66.5.  
 Stocks erased previous losses after the reports. The S&P
500 Index rose 0.1 percent to 1,102.34 as of 11:04 a.m. in New
York. Treasuries climbed, pushing two-year yields to the lowest
ever, as the GDP report signaling cooling growth spurred demand
for the world’s safest securities. The two-year yield fell 2
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 0.57 percent.  
 Economists forecast the Chicago group’s gauge would fall to
56, according to the median of 53 survey projections.  Estimates 
ranged from 50 to 60.  
 Employment, Production  
 The employment measure rose to 56.6 from 54.2 in June, and
the production gauge increased to 65 from 64.2.  
 The gauge of new orders climbed to 64.6 from 59.1. The
index of backlogs rose to 57.6 from 50.7.  
 The gauge of inventories increased to 50.8 from 46.5.  
 Economists watch the Chicago index and other regional
manufacturing reports for an early reading on the outlook
nationally. The Chicago group says its membership includes both
manufacturers and service providers, making the gauge of measure
of overall growth. Its members have operations across the U.S.
and abroad.  
 Other regional factory reports showed manufacturing is
decelerating. The Federal Reserve Bank of  Philadelphia ’s general
economic index fell this month to the lowest level since August
2009, while the  New York  Fed’s measure dropped to the lowest
this year.  
 National Measure  
 The ISM’s monthly  national  factory index, due to be
released on Aug. 2, may drop to 54.2 in July from 56.2 the prior
month, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed.
The measure averaged 53.9 in the five years leading up to
December 2007, the start of the worst recession since the 1930s.  
 Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction
equipment, this month raised its full-year earnings forecast on
higher demand in developing countries for mining, energy and
rail equipment.  
 “You’ve got strong growth in India and China that provides
demand for commodities,” Ed Rapp, chief financial officer of
the Peoria, Illinois-based company, said in an interview on July
22. “Most of the mining is happening in the developing parts of
the world.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Caterpillar Inc. mining truck carries a load at Syncrude Canada Ltd.'s oil sands North Mine in Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada. Photographer: Jimmy Jeong/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
