-- Cameron Backs Osborne in Cabinet Split Over Trident Nuclear Force Funding
-- Kitty Donaldson
-- 2010-07-30T11:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/cameron-backs-osborne-in-cabinet-split-over-trident-nuclear-force-funding.html

          
          
             Prime Minister  David Cameron  gave
his backing to Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  in a
dispute with Defense Secretary  Liam Fox  over how to fund a
replacement of Britain’s Trident nuclear-missile system.  
 “These are decisions for the Treasury,” Cameron’s
spokeswoman  Vickie Sheriff  told reporters in London today.
“It’s the chancellor’s decision.”  
 Osborne yesterday rejected calls from Fox for the 20
billion-pound ($31 billion) cost of renewing the submarine-based
Trident system to be met from outside his department’s core
budget. Cameron’s government is enacting the deepest spending
cuts since World War II and the funding for Fox’s ministry will
also be reduced after a review of U.K. defense needs this year.  
 “The Trident costs, I have made it absolutely clear, are
part of the defense budget,” Osborne said in an interview in
New Delhi. “All budgets have pressure. I don’t think there’s
anything particularly unique about the ministry of defense. I
have made it very clear that Trident renewal costs must be taken
as part of the defense budget.”  
 Most departments face reductions of a third, the
independent Institute for Fiscal Studies says. Total U.K.
defense spending is about 40 billion pounds a year.  
 “There’s always been an understanding that the budget for
the nuclear deterrent came from outside the defense budget,”
Fox told BBC Television on July 18. “We really can’t afford to
play fast and loose with defense.”  
 Fox said July 13 the U.K. will look at Trident again in
2014 to see if it can use three submarines instead of the
current four. While the government is committed to maintaining a
nuclear deterrent, Cameron said June 23 there is “a case” for
“bearing down” on the cost of the Trident program.  
 BAE Systems Plc  and  Rolls-Royce Group Plc  are among the
contractors that would build the submarines planned to replace
the Vanguard-class vessels that carry the Trident missiles.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
 Kitty Donaldson  in New Delhi at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        