-- Canada Economy Rises 0.1% in May as Oil, Gas Industry Offsets Housing Drop
-- Greg Quinn
-- 2010-07-30T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/canada-economy-rises-0-1-in-may-as-oil-gas-industry-offsets-housing-drop.html

          
          
             Canada’s  gross domestic product 
expanded in May after stalling the month before, with mining and
oil leading increased goods production, while wholesale and real
estate activity declined.  
 Canada’s economic output rose 0.1 percent to a seasonally
adjusted annual rate of C$1.23 trillion ($1.19 trillion) in May,
Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa. Economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg News predicted a 0.2 percent gain, based on the median
of 22 estimates.  
 Canada’s annual growth rate probably slowed to 3 percent in
the second quarter from a decade-high pace of 6.1 percent
between January and March, when low mortgage rates and temporary
tax credits sparked spending, the Bank of Canada said July 22.
The economy’s growth of 3.5 percent this year will still lead
the U.S., the euro zone and Japan on consumer and government
spending, the bank said.  
 Mining, oil and gas  grew 3.4 percent in May from April,
leading a 0.6 percent gain in goods-producing industries,
Statistics Canada said.  Retailing  grew 0.3 percent, led by
clothing, food and beverages, the government agency said, and
manufacturing increased 0.1 percent.  
 Companies such as Canadian Tire Corp. are  benefiting  from
consumer demand as job creation spurs new spending, while
commodity producers including Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.
have profited from rising global orders.  
 Wage Growth  
 Canada’s  job creation  was almost five times more than
economists expected in June, restoring most of the country’s job
losses since 2008, Statistics Canada said July 9. Employment
rose by 93,200 in June, following gains of 24,700 in May and
April’s record 108,700.  
 Today, Statistics Canada also reported that average weekly
earnings of payroll employees increased by 3.7 percent in May
from a year earlier, the fastest since February 2008. Earnings
rose 0.4 percent in May from April, as non-farm payrolls fell by
25,000, or by 0.2 percent. Payrolls increased 0.4 percent from
the year-earlier month.  
 The Bank of Canada raised its key rate for a second month
on July 20 and said further moves must be “weighed carefully”
against the recovery. The bank also said “the global economic
recovery is proceeding but is not yet self-sustaining.”  
 “In that base case, and there is a lot of risk on both
sides of that base case, on the upside and the downside, in that
base case we have interest rates rising gradually,” Pierre
Duguay, a deputy governor at the central bank, said in a July 27
interview in Ottawa just before his retirement.  
 Prolonged Recovery  
 Investors are betting on another rate increase, with the
rate on the  three-month  overnight index swap at 0.86 percent
yesterday. The rate measures what investors predict the central
bank’s benchmark will average over that time.  
 Gross domestic product gained 3.8 percent from May 2009,
today’s report said.  
 Canada has raised rates as its biggest trade partner, the
U.S., reported this week that consumers lost confidence in July,
shaken by mounting concern over jobs and wages.  
 “The U.S. and world economies are fragile. A sustained
recovery will be prolonged and market demands will remain
volatile,” Kathryn McQuade, chief financial officer of Canadian
Pacific Railway Ltd., said on a July 28 earnings call.  
 Canada’s housing market also showed signs of slowing in
today’s GDP report as the central bank has predicted. The output
of real estate agents and brokers dropped 11 percent in May, the
fifth straight decline. Residential construction fell 3.8
percent, leading a 1.6 percent decrease in construction.  
 Service industries fell 0.l percent in May, the statistics
agency said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        