-- Canadian Dollar Rises as Slower Growth Fails to Erode Rate Speculation
-- Alex Kowalski
-- 2010-07-30T17:34:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/canadian-currency-strengthens-before-canada-u-s-economic-reports.html

          
          
             The Canadian dollar advanced versus
its U.S. counterpart after reports showing economic growth
slowed in both nations failed to deter speculation the Bank of
Canada will extend interest-rate increases.  
 The loonie gained compared with all of the 16 most-traded
currencies and headed for a monthly advance versus the greenback
even with weaker gross domestic product data. Bank of Canada
Governor  Mark Carney  raised the benchmark interest rate on July
20 by a quarter-percentage point for a second month and may
raise interest rates again in September.  
 “The markets are pricing accordingly with a September rate
hike,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at
National Bank of Canada, said by phone from Toronto. “Unless
there’s a material downturn in between now and the meeting, I
think the market has it right.”  
 The Canadian currency gained 0.7 percent to C$1.0294 per
U.S. dollar at 1:29 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0371 yesterday,
after touching C$1.0264, which would be the strongest on a
closing basis since June 21. The loonie gained 1 percent against
the euro and 0.2 percent versus the pound. One Canadian dollar
buys 97.15 U.S. cents.  
 Canada’s GDP expanded 0.1 percent in May after stalling the
month before, with mining and oil leading increased goods
production, while wholesale and real estate activity declined.  
 The nation’s economic output rose to a seasonally adjusted
annual rate of C$1.23 trillion ($1.19 trillion) in May,
Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News predicted a 0.2 percent gain, based on the median
of 22 estimates.  
 ‘One the Sideline’  
 “This weakness isn’t going to be enough to move the bank
on the sideline, so you’re probably going to see rates continue
to move up in Canada in contrast to the Fed,”  Paul Ferley ,
assistant chief economist at Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto,
said by telephone.  
 Canada’s annual growth rate probably slowed to 3 percent in
the second quarter from a decade-high pace of 6.1 percent from
January to March, when low mortgage rates and temporary tax
credits sparked spending, the Bank of Canada said July 22. The
economy’s growth of 3.5 percent this year will still lead the
U.S., the euro zone and Japan because of consumer and government
spending, the bank said.  
 “With strong employment growth through the second quarter
in Canada, that bodes well for further strength in June’s GDP,”
Ferley said.  
 Canada’s job creation was almost five times more than
economists expected in June, restoring most of the country’s job
losses since 2008, Statistics Canada said July 9. Employment
rose by 93,200 in June, following gains of 24,700 in May and
April’s record 108,700.  
 Gain for Month  
 The loonie, whose name is derived from the aquatic bird on
the one-dollar coin, is poised for a 3.3 percent gain against
the greenback in July and has risen 2.2 percent this year,
according to Bloomberg data.  
 Growth in the U.S. slowed to a 2.4 percent annual rate in
the second quarter, less than forecast, reflecting a larger
trade deficit and cooler consumer spending.  
 The increase in gross domestic product compared with a
median forecast of 2.6 percent of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News and follows an upwardly revised 3.7 percent pace
in the first quarter that showed a jump in inventories,
according to figures from the Commerce Department in Washington.
Business investment climbed at the fastest rate since 1997.  
 The S&P 500 fell 0.1 percent, leaving it down 0.2 percent
for the week, after the expansion in U.S. gross domestic product
trailed economists’ forecasts.  
 Bank of Canada  
 Carney, the Bank of Canada governor, said July 20 further
action on interest rates will be “weighed carefully against
domestic and global economic developments.”  
 On June 1, he became the first Group of Seven central
banker since July 2008 to lift borrowing costs, increasing the
benchmark rate to 0.5 percent. Carney raised the target rate for
overnight loans between commercial banks to 0.75 percent on July
20.  
 The Bank of Canada overnight lending rate will increase 25
basis points to 1 percent in the third quarter, according to the
median forecast of 6 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in New York at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        