-- Carlyle Raises $354 Million for China Beijing Fund, Less Than Targeted
-- Cathy Chan
-- 2010-07-30T04:18:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/carlyle-said-to-raise-354-million-for-china-yuan-fund-less-than-targeted.html

          
          
             Carlyle Group said it raised 2.4
billion yuan ($354 million) for its Beijing yuan-denominated
fund in its first closing and plans to reach the target by
doubling the capital this year.  
 “We got preliminary indications which will take us to 5
billion yuan by year end,” said  Yang Xiangdong , head of Carlyle
Asia Partners, in a phone interview. Private-equity firms
typically close funds to start investing and may reopen them for
further raisings once the money has been invested and depending
on market conditions.  
 Washington-based Carlyle, the world’s second-biggest
private-equity firm, also formed an investment management
venture with Beijing State-owned Capital Operation and
Management Center, the biggest state-owned enterprise in the
Chinese capital, according to a company press release today.  
 Carlyle will own 80 percent of the venture, which will be
an adviser to the domestic fund, the private-equity company said.
The fund will invest alongside the Asia buyout group of Carlyle,,
which manages more than $5 billion in three dollar-denominated
funds and invests in “large growth companies” in the region,
according to the release.  
 The U.S. firm now operates two yuan-denominated funds in
China after receiving approval in March to form a $100 million
fund with Fosun Group, a Chinese privately owned company whose
businesses span steel, mining and property.  
 Blackstone Group LP was the first global private-equity
firm to set up a 5 billion yuan fund with the Shanghai
government in August last year to target investments in the
eastern coastal city and neighboring areas.  
 China is stepping up efforts to build its own private-
equity industry as the government seeks to foster corporate
governance and strengthen capital markets.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        