-- Charles River Withdraws $1.6 Billion Offer for WuXi
-- Jason Gale
-- 2010-07-30T20:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/charles-river-drops-1-6-billion-wuxi-bid-biggest-foreign-china-takeover.html

          
          
             Charles River Laboratories
International Inc.  withdrew a $1.6 billion bid for  WuXi
PharmaTech (Cayman) Inc. , citing investor opposition to what
would have been the largest foreign takeover of a China company.  
 Charles River said today it will pay WuXi a $30 million
break fee after the companies agreed to end the $21.25-a-share
cash-and-stock offer made in April. Wilmington, Massachusetts-
based Charles River, which provides research and testing
services to drugmakers, also said its board approved a $500
million share buyback.  
 Jana Partners LLC, Charles River’s largest stakeholder,
urged investors to vote against the deal, citing “highly
speculative” benefits and an “unreasonable price,” in a
statement issued hours before the announcement. The takeover
would have given Charles River facilities in Shanghai, Suzhou
and Tianjin in China, where cheaper labor and laboratory costs
are luring the world’s biggest drugmakers including Novartis AG.  
 Given shareholder “concerns about the proposed
transaction, and our commitment not to proceed without their
support, we have decided that terminating the transaction is the
appropriate action to take,” said  James C. Foster , Charles
River’s chairman, president and chief executive officer, in a
statement.  
 Charles River  shares declined 87 cents, or 2.7 percent, to
$31.08 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
 WuXi  was unchanged at $15.  
 High Spending  
 Capital expenditure at Charles River hit a 10-year high of
$227 million in 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The company purchased Inveresk Research Group Inc. for $1.5
billion in 2004 and also allocated about $600 million in the
past five years to its preclinical-trial business, for an annual
return of less than 5 percent, Jana said in a July 16 statement
outlining its objection to the WuXi deal.  
 “Charles River’s board and management must focus on
reversing their history of poor performance and capital
allocation decisions and start generating maximum shareholder
value from their strong businesses if they wish to avoid further
and more serious shareholder rebuke,”  Barry Rosenstein ,
managing partner at New York-based Jana, said in an e-mail
today.  
 The takeover needed the consent of a majority of Charles
River shareholders at an Aug. 5 vote, which is now canceled.  
 Pricey Deal  
 RiskMetrics Group said this week that shareholders should
vote against the deal because the price was too high.  
 The proposed transaction “leaves very little room for
error, amplifying the potential execution risk,” RiskMetrics,
an investor advisory firm, said in a report. The future of the
contract-research industry, in which companies such as Charles
River and WuXi conduct drug studies for drugmakers, is
uncertain, RiskMetrics said.  
 WuXi said its strategy won’t change after the terminated
agreement. “Our goal is, and has long been, to build a broad,
integrated R&D service platform designed to help our customers
improve the success of research and shorten the time of new
product development,” said Ge Li, chairman and chief executive
officer, in a separate statement.  
 Charles River said it plans to use  cash  in hand, existing
credit facilities and other forms of financing to fund the share
repurchase. The latest buyback is separate from a previously
announced $600 million program, under which Charles River
purchased about 11 million shares. That plan has a balance of
$145 million and has been canceled, the company said.  
 The buyback reflects the board’s “belief that our stock
price is substantially undervalued and also its faith in Charles
River’s future prospects,” Foster said.  
 The biggest announced takeover in mainland China by a
foreign company is Diageo Plc’s 610 million pound ($952 million)
purchase of liquor maker Sichuan Swellfun Co. earlier this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Gale  at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        