-- Chile Breaks Six-Year Bond Drought as Record Spread Beats Italy, Brazil
-- Sebastian Boyd
-- 2010-07-30T14:17:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/chile-breaks-six-year-bond-drought-as-record-spread-beats-italy-brazil.html

          
          
             Chile sold its first international
bond in six years at a record-low yield as investors demanded
less than half the premium on comparable debt from higher-rated
Italy.  
 Chile sold $1 billion in 10-year notes in dollars yesterday
to yield 90 basis points, or 0.9 percentage point, above U.S.
Treasuries. The South American country also sold $520 million of
bonds in pesos at 5.5 percent, cutting about 60 basis points, or
$24 million, from its cost of borrowing in its own currency,
Finance Minister  Felipe Larrain  said.  
 The extra yield, or spread, Chile paid for the dollar debt
was 0.6 percentage point less than the region’s biggest economy
Brazil paid to borrow for 11 years in April. Chile, the world’s
largest copper exporter, is raising money to help cover the cost
of rebuilding from an earthquake in February that killed about
500 people and caused $30 billion in damage.  
 “We have examined all the foreign bond sales placed by the
Republic of Chile since 1822 and this is by far the lowest
rate,” Larrain told reporters in a conference call from New
York yesterday. “This is good news for Chileans because it
means lower interest rates. Companies will be able to borrow at
lower rates, stimulating investment and employment.”  
 Citigroup Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
managed the sale. Investors placed $5.7 billion in orders for
the dollar bonds and $3.8 billion for the bonds in pesos.  
 Proposed Spread Cut  
 The three banks reduced the proposed spread on the dollar
bonds from 95 basis points and increased the proposed size of
the peso bond from $500 million while lowering the yield from
5.625 percent, a person familiar with the transaction, who
declined to be identified because terms weren’t set, said.  
 “It’s extremely good, as expected,” said  Alberto Ramos ,
an economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. “Everybody knew that
Chile is the best credit out there in Latin America. They
haven’t been in the market since 2004 so there was significant
pent-up demand for Chilean paper.”  
 President  Sebastian Pinera’s  government, which took office
in March, plans to raise $4.7 billion this year from tax
increases, copper income and selling assets such as minority
stakes in water companies. It’s seeking $20 billion through 2013
to pay down a $2.5 billion deficit, cover the earthquake repairs
and fund $9 billion of extra spending.  
 More Sales  
 More international bond sales “haven’t been ruled out, but
definitely not this year,” Larrain, 52, said yesterday. Latin
America’s highest-rated sovereign borrower has $10.9 billion in
copper savings, which Larrain will use “modestly”, he said on
July 22.  
 The yield on Chile’s domestic 10-year bonds in pesos fell
eight basis points to 6.07 percent yesterday as traders took
into account the lower yield for Chile’s borrowing abroad, said
 German Fritsch , head of trading at Deutsche Bank AG in Santiago.
The yield on Chile’s dollar bonds due in 2013 fell seven basis
points to 1.7 percent. Chilean interest-rate swap rates also
fell following news of the pricing. The 10-year swap rate fell
five basis points yesterday and a further three basis points
today to 5.61 percent, the lowest since March 1.  
 The peso bond sale marks the beginning of the government’s
plan to internationalize its currency.  
 “Pricing bonds at these levels, far inside the domestic
yield, is an excellent start,” Fritsch said. “It sends a very
good signal to Chilean companies. You’re diversifying your
funding sources by going offshore and saving money.”  
 The peso weakened 0.1 percent to 523.85 per U.S. dollar as
of 10:15 a.m. today from 523.55 at yesterday’s close.  
 Moody’s Raises  
 Moody’s Investors Service in June lifted its rating on
Chile’s foreign currency debt to Aa3, the fourth-highest.
Standard & Poor’s ranks it one level lower at A+ and Fitch
Ratings grades it one level lower still at A.  
 The extra yield investors demand to buy Italy’s $3.5
billion 6.875 percent bonds due in 2023 instead of U.S.
Treasuries was 189 basis points yesterday. Brazil’s 4.875
percent bonds due in 2021 traded yesterday at a spread of 141
basis points, according to BNP Paribas prices.  
 Moody’s rates Italy’s debt Aa2, a level above Chile,
Standard & Poor’s ranks it A+, the same as Chile, while Fitch
Ratings grades it AA-, two steps above its rating on Chile’s
bonds. Brazil is rated Baa3, the lowest investment grade, by
Moody’s and an equivalent BBB- by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch.  
 Chile’s 10-year credit-default swap spread was 98 basis
points yesterday, according to CMA Datavision in New York,
compared with 142 basis points for Brazil or 139 for Italy.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 The yield on Chilean bonds sold yesterday is “the lowest
in Latin America, very much below the rates achieved by great
powers like Brazil and this figure even puts us at a European
level for borrowing,” said Pinera, according to a recording of
his remarks published by the finance ministry.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Felipe Larrain, Chile's finance minister, smiles during an interview in New York. Photographer: Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
