-- Chile's Jobless Rate Unexpectedly Fell as Economy Recovers From Quake
-- Randy Woods
-- 2010-07-30T15:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/chile-s-jobless-rate-unexpectedly-fell-as-economy-recovers-from-quake.html

          
          
             Chile’s unemployment rate
unexpectedly fell in the three months through June, cementing
expectations that a tight labor market will put pressure on
consumer prices this year.  
 Unemployment slid to 8.5 percent from 8.8 percent in the
three months through May, the National Statistics Institute said
today in Santiago. The median estimate of 11 economists  surveyed 
by Bloomberg was for a rise in the rate to 8.9 percent. Chile’s
peso strengthened.  
 South America’s fifth-largest economy had 544,750 more jobs
in June than a year earlier, the institute said. Chile is set to
close the year with 7.4 percent unemployment as the economy
continues to recover from February’s earthquake and last year’s
recession, said  Alejandro Puente , an economist at BBVA Chile.  
 “The employment figures are positive but you can also say
that they will create inflationary pressure toward the end of
the year,” Puente said by telephone from Santiago. “This
confirms the central bank will continue its policy of quickly
returning interest rates to normal.”  
 Policy makers at the central bank on July 15 raised the
benchmark rate by half a point to 1.5 percent, saying in a
statement accompanying the decision they would continue to
increase lending costs this year.  
 Seasonal Effects  
 Chilean unemployment normally rises at this time of year
because of the seasonal effects of the southern hemisphere
winter, which curtails agricultural jobs, Puente said. The
agriculture and fishing industries shed about 45,000 jobs from
the three months through May, the institute said. Manufacturing
and construction hired 30,400 and 14,500 people, respectively.
Regions hardest hit by the 8.8 magnitude earthquake showed signs
of recovery in the three months through June.  
 Growing internal demand is contributing to the labor
market’s recovery, brokerage EuroAmerica said in a July 28 note.
Retail sales advanced 18 percent in June from the previous year
and supermarket revenue grew 7.8 percent, showing that internal
demand remains strong,  Juan Pablo Castro , an economist with
Banco Santander SA, said July 28.  
 Sales of durable consumer goods grew 31 percent in June
followed by a 28 percent increase in capital goods sales, the
statistics institute said in a July 28  industrial production
report .  
 Chile’s peso rose 0.3 percent to 521.75 per U.S. dollar at
11:20 a.m. New York time from 523.55 yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        