-- `Meaningful Correction' Looms for China Housing, Economists Say in Paper
-- Nick Gentle
-- 2010-07-30T04:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/china-home-prices-face-meaningful-correction-within-two-years-nber-says.html

          
          
             China’s housing prices, which have
tripled in major cities in the past 10 years, face a
“meaningful correction” in the next year or two, according to
a paper from the U.S. National Bureau of Economic Research.  
 Prices of like-for-like-quality land at auction in Beijing
climbed almost 800 percent between 2003 and this year,
economists  Jing Wu ,  Joseph Gyourko  and Yongheng Deng wrote in
the working paper published by the Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based arbiter of U.S. business cycles. Their  calculations  showed
Beijing prices could fall as much as 40 percent if investors
lost confidence in the market.  
 “It does seem more likely than not that there will be a
meaningful correction in Chinese house prices within the next
year or two,” Gyourko, a professor at the University of
Pennsylvania’s Wharton School of Business, said in an e-mail
interview. “It’s virtually impossible to know when. Modest
declines in expected appreciation would be all that is needed to
set it off.”  
 Property prices across 35 major Chinese cities have more
than tripled in the past 10 years in real terms, with more than
half of that increase since 2007, the researchers found. China’s
government has raised banks’  reserve deposit  requirements three
times this year and introduced tougher lending conditions for
second and third home purchases to control real-estate
speculation. A property tax may soon be introduced, the China
Daily reported on July 23.  
 “Introducing a property tax is potentially very
important,” Gyourko said. “Its current absence makes
speculating cheaper, as not having to pay an annual tax lowers
the cost of carrying your investment.”  
 Curbs Working  
 Government measures to curb property speculation have had
“initial” results and prices will fall further in the second
half of this year, Zhou Jiang, of China’s housing ministry’s
research center, wrote on July 16 in China Finance, a central
bank publication. Declines in cities where prices previously
rose quickly will be “relatively large,” Zhou wrote, without
naming cities.  
 Gyourko and his fellow researchers wrote “it would only
require a moderation in likely price growth to generate
potentially large declines in prices, absent sharply rising
rents or some other countervailing factors.” Price-to-rent
ratios in major Chinese cities had risen sharply in recent years,
they noted.  
 University of Hong Kong economist  Zhigang Li  said there are
explanations for the price increases other than asset bubbles.  
 Limited Supply  
 “One explanation of the rapidly rising housing price and
low rent in Beijing is that people are expecting a large inflow
of  people  to Beijing -- entirely possible -- and a limited
supply of land in the future,” Li said. “I don’t think the
price will drop dramatically due to the bursting of a bubble.”  
 Gyourko and his fellow researchers looked at 309
residential land parcels that were auctioned in Beijing from
2003 to 2010 and determined prices rose by 788 percent.  
 Their analysis showed state-owned enterprises paid 27
percent more relative to the value of similar properties nearby,
suggesting they “simply pay more” for land.  
 “Moral hazard arising from these entities believing they
are too important to fail, combined with their access to low-
cost capital from state-owned banks, also could help explain
their bidding behavior,” they wrote.  
 “Land prices certainly would be lower in Beijing if state-
owned developers did not bid differently from other buyers, but
the results still indicate a very steep rise in values over the
past seven years.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nick Gentle  in Hong Kong 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Donald Choi, managing director at Nan Fung Development Ltd., a privately-held developer, talks with Bloomberg's Phillip Yin about the outlook for Hong Kong's real estate market.
     A private owner has put a building site in the Peak district, one of Hong Kong’s most exclusive residential areas, up for public tender, according to property broker Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. Nan Fung and Wharf (Holdings) Ltd. on July 28 bid HK$10.4 billion for a site on Mt. Nicholson Road in the Peak area, falling short of some surveyors’ estimates. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
