-- China Should Cut Foreign Ore to One-Third of Needs, Steel Association Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-30T06:53:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/china-should-cut-foreign-ore-to-one-third-of-needs-steel-association-says.html

          
          
             China , the biggest buyer of iron ore,
should reduce supplies by foreign companies to just one-third of
its requirements by 2015 by boosting domestic output and
investing overseas, the China Iron & Steel Association said.  
 Imports rose 4.1 percent in the first half from a year ago,
while domestic production surged 17 percent, suggesting China is
reducing its reliance on overseas shipments, Chairman  Deng Qilin 
said at a members meeting today.  
 China wants to cut purchases from Vale SA, BHP Billiton Ltd.
and Rio Tinto Group, which account for three-quarters of global
trade, after they dropped a 40-year custom of setting annual
prices and raised rates twice this year. Aluminum Corp. of China
Ltd. and Wuhan Iron & Steel Group are leading an overseas drive
by investing in African and Brazilian mines.  
 “To boost China’s pricing power for iron ore imports and
ensure a healthy development of the steel industry, we must make
full use of both domestic and overseas resources,” said Deng,
who is also general manager of Wuhan Steel.  
 Imports gained 42 percent to a record 628 million metric
tons last year, according to China’s customs data. Domestic ore
output in the nation was about 238 million tons at 63 percent
iron content, according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  
 Counter Measures  
 Aluminum Corp. of China yesterday agreed to invest $1.35
billion in the Simandou iron ore project run by London-based Rio
Tinto. Wuhan Steel has invested in Brazilian miner MMX Mineracao
e Metalicos SA.  
 China should study counter measures against the
“oligopoly” of BHP, Vale and Rio,  Shan Shanghua , general
secretary of the steel association, said at the same meeting.
The government should introduce measures encouraging domestic
output equal to at least 40 percent of supplies needed, he said.  
 Chinese steelmakers will cut production this and next month
because of an overcapacity,  Wu Xichun , an adviser to the
association and also a former chairman of the group, said today
at the conference.  
 Prices won’t rebound until production cuts match weakening
demand, Wu said.  
 Domestic prices  of hot-rolled coil fell for seven straight
weeks to July 16, as government measures to curb property
speculation damped demand for steel. Prices have since gained
6.9 percent to 4,159 yuan a metric ton, according to Beijing
Antaike Information Development Co.  
 Baosteel Group Corp. , China’s second-biggest steelmaker,
had a profit margin of 11.55 percent in the first five months,
according to Wu. Profit margins at Hebei Iron & Steel Group, the
nation’s biggest producer, was 2.77 percent, and 4.78 percent at
Jiangsu Shagang Group Co., Wu said.  
 -- Helen Yuan . Editors:  Tan Hwee Ann ,  Indranil Ghosh   
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        