-- China Says Its South Sea Claims Are `Indisputable'
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-30T05:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/china-has-indisputable-sovereignty-in-south-china-sea-defense-aide-says.html

          
          
             China declared its “indisputable
sovereignty” over the South China Sea and held naval drills in
the waters, pushing back against a U.S. role in resolving
disputes in one of the world’s busiest shipping lanes.  
 “China has indisputable sovereignty of the South Sea and
China has sufficient historical and legal backing” to underpin
its claims, Geng Yansheng, a Ministry of Defense spokesman, told
reporters at a military compound outside Beijing today. It
opposes efforts to “internationalize” the issue and will
resolve differences through “friendly negotiation,” he said.  
 U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  last week called
the sovereignty issue “a leading diplomatic priority.” Chinese
Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi  subsequently called her comments
“virtually an attack on China” and said U.S. involvement “can
only make matters worse and more difficult to solve.”  
 The Chinese government considers the entire  South China Sea 
as its own, dismissing claims from Southeast Asian countries to
islands such as the Spratlys, and is building an ocean-going
fleet to project power beyond its borders. China told  Exxon
Mobil Corp.  and  BP Plc  to halt exploration in areas that Vietnam
considers part of its territory, according to U.S. government
agencies.  
 China’s military recently held a large-scale naval exercise
in the sea using “real weaponry,” Geng said. The exercise,
involving warships from three naval fleets, included missile
launches at long-range targets and practicing against jet
fighters, the state-run China Daily  reported  today.  
 North Korea  
 The exercises coincided with joint U.S.-South Korea naval
drills earlier this week in the Sea of Japan designed to deter
North Korea. Further drills are planned in the Yellow Sea, off
China’s eastern coast, and South Korea plans to hold an anti-
submarine drill there next week, Yonhap reported today, citing
army spokesman Lee Bung-woo.  
 “China opposes any planes or warships that engage in
activities that will compromise China’s security either in the
Yellow Sea or other seas near China,” Geng said today.  
 China’s warning to Clinton to keep out of territorial
disputes in the sea may be pushing its neighbors into U.S. arms.
Vietnam, Malaysia, the Philippines, Brunei and Taiwan also claim
islands in the South China Sea that may have oil and gas
reserves.  
 “The danger always was that if China became more
aggressive in the South China Sea, this would push regional
countries closer to the United States,” said  Ian Storey , a
fellow at the Institute of Southeast Asia Studies in Singapore.
“That’s exactly what’s happening.”  
 China’s Military  
 China has beefed up its military over the past decade,
enhancing the capability to deter U.S. ships and enforce
territorial claims. Last year, Chinese fishing boats harassed
two U.S. naval vessels in the South China Sea, where American
forces have patrolled since World War II.  
 The South China Sea covers 3.5 million square kilometers
(1.4 million square miles) stretching from Singapore to the
Straits of Taiwan. Its waters carry about half the world’s
merchant fleet by tonnage each year, according to the U.S.
 Energy Information Administration .  
 Estimates of oil and gas reserves in the waters vary, with
some Chinese studies suggesting they contain more oil than Iran
and more natural gas than Saudi Arabia, according to the U.S.
agency.  
 In addition to Clinton, 11 other participants at last
week’s Association of Southeast Asian Nations forum in Hanoi on
regional security raised the issue of sovereignty over the sea.  
 China’s Foreign Minister,  Yang Jiechi , was “a bit
emotional” when discussing the sea, South Korean counterpart  Yu Myung Hwan  said in a July 24 interview. “Suddenly the
atmosphere became sullen.”  
 Code of Conduct  
 China has resisted committing to a code of conduct in the
sea to build on a 2002  accord  that called for disputes to be
resolved peacefully.  
 “Yang said at length that the issue should be discussed
bilaterally,” Japan’s Foreign Minister  Katsuya Okada  told
reporters on July 27 after attending the forum in Hanoi.  
 Clinton offered to help facilitate discussions on a code of
conduct, saying it was essential to ensure unimpeded commerce,
and signaling a direct U.S. role in a dispute it had previously
avoided.  
 “The United States is attempting to coerce Southeast Asian
nations into blowing out of proportion the South China Sea
issue,” the state-run China Daily said in a July 27  editorial .
“This is a dangerous move. It will jeopardize the status quo in
the region, one that is built upon peaceful coexistence.”  
 China’s behavior over the sea has caused “a lot of
consternation in the region,” said Bonnie Glaser , a senior
fellow who studies China at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in Washington. “The best term would be
intimidation. One could also say coercion.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yidi Zhao  in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        