-- Environmental Disclosures Should Be China Pension Fund Demand, Group Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-30T03:57:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/china-pension-funds-should-demand-environmental-disclosure-group-says.html

          
          
             China should ask its 777 billion
yuan ($115 billion) national pension fund to demand more
corporate disclosure on the environment as accidents in the past
month polluted rivers and the sea, a group said.  
 Better coordination is also needed between stock exchanges
in Hong Kong, Shanghai, Shenzhen and the China Securities
Regulatory Commission to ensure compliance by companies,
according to the  Association for Sustainable & Responsible
Investment in Asia .  
 An acid leak at  Zijin Mining Group Co. ’s copper and gold
mine this month poisoned enough fish in the Ting River to feed
72,000 people for a year, and Dalian’s beaches and port were
closed by an oil spill at the nation’s largest crude terminal.
Environmental accidents jumped 98 percent in the first six
months of the year, as rapid economic growth takes its toll, the
environmental protection ministry said.  
 “The government must encourage investors, namely Chinese
pension funds, to be world class investors which demand greater
corporate and social disclosure,” said Dave Dore, the research
manager at the association. “Their role as universal owner
means that requiring greater disclosure is in their own
interests.”  
 China’s work safety administration last week  ordered
intensified measures  at factories, mines and construction sites
to prevent accidents. Adding to the accidents at Zijin and
Dalian, a gas-pipeline blast in Nanjing city killed at least 13
people, and 3,000 barrels of hazardous chemicals were washed
into a river in Jilin this week.  
 Lack Disclosure  
 “There appears to be insufficient investor demand for
routine corporate environmental disclosure until there is an
environmental crisis,” Dore said. “The Zijin Mining case
illustrates a common complaint about weak enforcement. The
national government can have quite sophisticated policies and
regulations, but these are often not enforced at the local
level.”  
 Regulators are now probing Zijin’s disclosure of the
incident, the gold industry’s worst waste leakage in China in
two years, nine days after it happened. Four managers at Zijin
have been detained. Two local officials are under investigation,
the government affiliated Procuratorial Daily said July 20.  
 The government doesn’t need to introduce new legislation,
Dore said. Instead, it could support training programs for asset
owners and managers, he said.  
 -- Helen Yuan . Editors:  Tan Hwee Ann ,  Indranil Ghosh .  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        