-- China's Ship-Financing Drive Hindered by Tax Rules, Red Tape, BoCom Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-30T00:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/china-s-ship-financing-drive-hindered-by-tax-rules-red-tape-bocom-says.html

          
          
             Chinese lenders’ attempts to expand
financing for ships are being held back by tax regulations and a
lack of expertise, according to Bank of Communications Co.  
 “Banks have a strong interest in ship financing as they
have abundant money seeking investment,” Cao Xingyuan, the head
of shipping at BoCom’s leasing unit, said by phone yesterday.
“However, their involvement is limited as they’re lacking
industry knowledge.”  
 Banks in China, with 87.2 trillion yuan ($13 trillion) of
assets, have less than 5 percent of the global ship-financing
market, according to Cao, even after European banks pared
lending amid the global credit crunch. BoCom, China Merchants
Bank Co. and other Chinese lenders have boosted their focus on
shipping as the nation works to surpass South Korea as the
world’s biggest shipbuilder.  
 Chinese banks are deterred from offering operating leases,
where they own the ship, because of a 5 percent tax rate, Cao
said. They are instead involved in finance leasing, where the
customer borrows money to buy the vessel, he said.  
 “The future of shipping finance lies in operating
leases,” Cao said. The government is introducing rules to allow
the formation of special purpose vehicles in designated areas to
help banks offer operating leases, he said.  
 Chinese shipowners also face a vessel-register process that
can take as long as 50 days, compared with less than a week in
 Hong Kong , which further slows banks’ efforts to develop ship-
financing, Cao Said.  
 BoCom’s ship-finance customers include medium-sized
shipping lines and units of power and steel companies, Cao said.
He declined to name any customers or to give a value for the
size of the bank’s ship-finance operations.  
 Worldwide, banks are easing lending requirements for
shipowners this year as they’re more positive about the economy,
Cao said.  
 Global financing for shipping companies may reach about $60
billion this year after plunging 64 percent to about $30 billion
in 2009, Rory Hussey, managing director at ING Groep NV’s
shipping finance division said in February.  
 -- Li Xiaowei . Editors: Neil Denslow, Aaron Sheldrick.  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Xiaowei  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7023 or
 Xli12@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        