-- Christie, Rendell to Audit Delaware River Authority After Perk Complaints
-- Dunstan McNichol
-- 2010-07-30T20:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/christie-rendell-seek-changes-and-audit-at-delaware-river-port-authority.html

          
          
             The governors of  Pennsylvania  and
New Jersey called for audits of the  Delaware River Port
Authority  after other public officials criticized the bi-state
toll-bridge agency’s employee perks.  
 Pennsylvania’s  Ed Rendell , a Democrat, and New Jersey’s
 Chris Christie , a Republican, issued statements yesterday
recommending that the DRPA eliminate free toll privileges and
car allowances for board members and employees. Christie also
wants to require the agency’s board to approve all charitable
contributions, vote publicly on contracts and strengthen its
anti-nepotism and conflict-of-interest policies.  
 “It is imperative that each of these reforms be
implemented without delay,” Christie said in a letter to the
DRPA’s chairman and vice chairman. “We will continue to
scrutinize the actions of the DRPA for adherence to all of these
reforms, and I will not hesitate to exercise my veto authority
over any DRPA board action that does not conform.”  
 The DRPA’s Benjamin Franklin, Walt Whitman, Commodore Barry
and Betsy Ross bridges, which link New Jersey and Pennsylvania,
take in about $240 million in toll revenue a year. The authority
has lost more than $60 million in derivatives bets, according to
its financial documents. The transactions were set up to raise
cash to support economic-development projects such as a new
stadium for the National Football League’s Philadelphia Eagles
and the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia.  
 Free Pass  
 The authority’s chief executive officer, former New Jersey
state Senator  John Matheussen , still runs the agency even though
his contract expired July 17. His continued tenure will be
determined by his response to the criticism facing the DRPA,
Christie said at a press conference in Morris County yesterday.  
 Matheussen said he sent written responses to both
governors.  
 “My response was they will receive our 110 percent
cooperation,” he said in a telephone interview today. “We look
forward to the changes.”  
 The authority’s public-safety director, Michael Joyce,
resigned his $180,000-a-year post earlier this week after a
three-day suspension for allowing his daughter to use a DRPA-
issued E-ZPass transponder to get free trips over authority
bridges, according to Danelle Hunter, a spokeswoman for the
authority.  
 ‘Magic Money Tree’  
 “This is not paid for by some magic money tree,” Christie
told reporters today in Trenton. “This is paid for by toll
money from the people of New Jersey and Pennsylvania. Both of us
trust the DRPA is going to implement these reforms in short
order.”  
 John Dougherty , a business manager of the International
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers who is among five Pennsylvania
commissioners on the authority board, has publicly questioned
the board’s public-meetings practices and the use of car
allowances in calculating the future pension payments of a DRPA
officer.  
 Hunter declined to respond immediately to questions about
the DRPA’s car allowances and the governors’ proposals.  
 The authority, which had about $1.1 billion in debt
outstanding according to its 2009 annual report, was placed on
negative outlook by Moody’s Investors Service in March over
concerns about its variable-rate debt. Moody’s rated the debt at
the fourth-lowest investment grade, A3.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        