-- U.K.'s Highest-Grossing Law Firm Clifford Chance Sees India Office by 2012
-- Kian Ganz
-- 2010-07-30T04:19:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/clifford-chance-expects-india-to-allow-foreign-law-firm-offices-by-2012.html

          
          
             Clifford Chance LLP , the U.K.’s
highest-grossing law firm, expects to have an office in India by
late 2012 after the country lifts restrictions on foreign
lawyers, said  Stuart Popham , the firm’s senior partner.  
 “If I said 18 months I would probably be optimistic, if I
said 2 1/2 years I would be unduly pessimistic,” Popham said in
an interview in New Delhi yesterday.  
 India prohibits foreign lawyers from practising law or
setting up offices in the country. The ban was upheld in
December by the Bombay High Court in a ruling that said  Ashurst
LLP ,  Chadbourne & Parke LLP  and  White & Case LLP  shouldn’t have
been licensed by India’s central bank to open offices.  
 A court in the southern city of Chennai is scheduled to
hear a suit Aug. 4 that seeks to expand the ban by preventing 31
foreign firms, including Clifford Chance, from sending lawyers
to the country to provide clients with advice. India’s Law
Minister Veerappa Moily said July 20 that the government would
ask to move the case to the Supreme Court.  
 Foreign firms have created alliances with Indian law firms
following the ban. Clifford Chance has a tie-up with  AZB &
Partners  in India to serve companies doing Indian deals.  
 “Banks that are looking to expand their business in India
need international law firms,” Popham said. “They will need
the comfort of internationally experienced lawyers who know what
kind of documents they have written in China, in Africa, in
America, in Russia, which Indian lawyers don’t do.”  
 U.K. Delegation  
 Popham was part of a U.K. delegation that included 39
business leaders and Cabinet members during Prime Minister  David Cameron’s  visit to India this week. The prime minister sought to
sell Britain as a place for Indian companies to do business
while asking India to create opportunities for U.K. investors.  
 Lalit Bhasin , chairman of the Society of Indian Law Firms
that opposes the entry of foreign law firms, said before the U.K.
delegation’s visit that he didn’t agree with Moily’s proposal to
move the case to the top court.  
 “Revival of interest on the part of the government is the
result of insurmountable pressures being exerted on the
government by the British lobby,” Bhasin said in a July 23
statement. “Legal profession is too sacrosanct to be polluted
by deep pockets of foreign governments or foreign lawyers.”  
 The U.K. delegation was well received, Popham said,
although he didn’t expect “overnight” results.  
 Cameron had urged India on July 28 to reach an agreement
with the European Union on free trade by the end of the year.  
 “The question of how well this visit will go down will be
judged in six months or 12 months,” Popham said.  
 “If in six months’ time or 12 months’ time none of the
restrictions on banking, on insurance, on legal services, on
cross-border investment, if the free trade agreement with the EU
hasn’t been signed, then I think there would be room to harbor
doubts as to what it is going to take to pursue the Indian
avowed policy of liberalization,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in New Delhi at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Kian Ganz  in Mumbai at   kganz1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        