-- Cohen Sells $6.8 Billion of CDO Rights to Fortress
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-07-30T20:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/cohen-co-sells-6-8-billion-of-bank-cdo-rights-to-fortress-investment.html

          
          
             Cohen & Co. , the Philadelphia firm
that built itself into the second-largest manager of
collateralized debt obligations, is selling its contracts to
oversee CDOs backed by bank capital notes.  
 A  Fortress Investment Group LLC  affiliate bought the
management rights on $3.8 billion of Alesco CDOs backed by
trust-preferred securities, or TruPS, for $5.4 million, Cohen &
Co. said yesterday in a Business Wire statement. The Fortress
affiliate also agreed to buy the contracts on $3 billion more
for $4.1 million, pending approval of certain equity holders.  
 Cohen & Co. grew to manage almost $32 billion in CDOs that
held TRuPS, subprime- mortgage  bonds and other assets, by Sept.
30, 2007, before the collapse of such funds helped create a
global financial crisis, according to Standard & Poor’s. Hedge
fund Hildene Capital Management LLC last year attempted to fire
the firm from managing TruPS CDOs, citing conflicts of interest
between the business and its brokerage and advisory unit.  
 The company announced a series of steps yesterday that
“are significant developments in providing our firm additional
resources for the future of our growth businesses,” Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer  Daniel G. Cohen  said in the
statement.  
 James Golden, a spokesman for the company, couldn’t
immediately provide comment. Gordon Runte, a spokesman for New
York-based Fortress, didn’t return a telephone message today.  
 Cohen & Co. may also be paid as much as $12 million more
for the Alesco CDO contracts, depending on the amount of
defaults and prepayments, according to the statement.  
 Alesco CDOs  
 ATP Management LLC, which is affiliated with some of New
York-based Fortress’s  investment  funds, will pay Cohen & Co. as
much as $23 million for services related to the deals, the firm
said.  
 The Alesco CDOs generated 40 percent, or $2.5 million, of
the company’s asset management revenue in its fiscal second
quarter, according to the statement yesterday. CDOs package
assets into new securities with varying risks.  
 A Cohen & Co. unit was “one of a number of market
participants to receive a subpoena from the SEC seeking
documents and information in an investigation titled In the
Matter of Certain CDO Structuring Sales and Marketing
Practices” in June 2009, the company said in a March filing
with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 “After our dispute last year, Cohen implemented a new
system that proactively contacted investors about developments
and we considered it to be very investor-friendly,”  John Scannell , New York-based Hildene’s chief operating officer, said
today in an e-mail.  
 Losses Sparked  
 Trust preferred securities have a combination of debt and
equity characteristics. They are issued by trusts formed by
companies raising cash. Banks count the notes as capital while
considering the interest payments tax-deductible.  
 A total of 31.1 percent of bank TruPS in CDOs were either
deferring payments or in default as of June, as U.S. lenders
grapple with loan losses sparked by the deepest recession since
the 1930s, New York-based Fitch Ratings Inc. said in a July 20
report.  
 A different Fortress affiliate, TP Management, assumed
oversight of Taberna CDOs earlier this year from a unit of
Philadelphia-based RAIT Financial Trust, whose chairman is
Daniel’s mother  Betsy Cohen  and where Daniel served as CEO from
December 2006 through February 2009. The Taberna CDOs contain
TruPS sold by real-estate companies, real-estate investment
trusts and lenders.  
 Chris Ricciardi  
 Chris Ricciardi , Cohen & Co.’s president, joined the firm
in 2006 after leading Merrill Lynch & Co.’s top-ranked CDO
underwriting business, and heads its broker-dealer division. He
said on a May 7 conference call that it recently began
originating and distributing certificates of deposits, and had
hired a team to broker equity derivatives between dealers. New
businesses might include municipal and emerging-market debt, he
said.  
 TCW Asset Management Co., based in Los Angeles, was the
largest CDO manager before the market collapsed, overseeing
$41.3 billion of the funds, S&P said. CDO managers are often
used to select the initial collateral for the vehicles,
sometimes trading and replacing the assets over time.  
 Hildene said in an October letter to the trustee of four
CDOs managed by Cohen & Co. that the CDO manager’s intent in
seeking to change certain terms of its contract may have been to
win business for its securities arm that helps banks retire
TruPS at a discount.  
 Credit Facility  
 Cohen & Co. also yesterday announced a new credit facility
for its Dekania Investors LLC unit and a tender in which it’s
offering to pay 80 cents on the dollar for $9.5 million of
subordinated notes issued by Cohen Brothers LLC.  
 Cohen & Co. rose 18 cents, or 3.7 percent, to $4.99 in NYSE
Amex trading as of 4:15 p.m. in New York. Shares have climbed
1.8 percent this year. The stock is down from $117.50 in January
2007 when the company was named Alesco Financial Inc., a real
estate investment trust managed by a Cohen & Co. unit, which
merged with Alesco Financial in December. Fortress declined 19
cents, or 5.1 percent, to $3.52 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  
 Alesco Financial was created in 2006 when Sunset Financial
Resources Inc. bought a Cohen-managed real estate investment
trust called Alesco that invested in assets including the
lowest-ranking portions of Cohen-managed CDOs.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        