-- Colombian Rebel Leader Cano Proposes Talks with President-Elect Santos
-- Charlie Devereux
-- 2010-07-30T20:40:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/colombian-rebel-leader-calls-president-santos-corrupt-tied-to-drugs-gangs.html

          
          
             The leader of Colombia’s largest
rebel group proposed talks with the country’s incoming
government while accusing President-elect  Juan Manuel Santos  of
corruption and ties to drug traffickers.  
 “We should talk,”  Alfonso Cano , chief of the
Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, said in a video posted
on  an affiliated website . “We are still dedicated to looking
for political exits. We hope that the government will reflect,
that it won’t deceive the country anymore.”  
 Cano’s message is his first public reaction to the election
of Santos, who as defense minister under President  Alvaro Uribe 
delivered some of the biggest blows against the group known as
the FARC, including a 2008 air strike in Ecuador that killed
 Raul Reyes , the guerillas’ No.2 leader. Cano, who is in hiding,
became the group’s chief two years ago following the death of
FARC founder  Manuel Marulanda .  
 Colombia’s military, backed by more than $500 million a
year in U.S. aid, has been closing in on Cano in recent weeks.
Earlier this month, army forces captured a guerrilla fighter who
goes by the alias Araceli Guerrero, who was in charge of one of
the security perimeters that protect the leader of the half-
century insurgency. Two other guerrillas were killed.  
 Cano, dressed in a brown, long-sleeved shirt and wearing
glasses, expressed regret that the insurgency he leads had
forced “Colombians to kill each other.”  
 Avoiding Confrontations  
 “We are convinced Colombia can close the doors on the
civil war if it finds the right track,” he said. “All the
guerrillas know that since 1964 we have said we need to converse
in order to find political ways out of the situations that are
generating armed confrontations.”  
 Even as he called for talks, Cano also said Santos’s
election was tainted and his government corrupt.  
 “It is soaked in illegitimacy because it has been
profoundly penetrated by drug trafficking, by administrative
corruption, by impunity,” Cano said.  
 Cano didn’t provide any evidence to support the allegations
of corruption or drug ties.  
 Calls to Santos’s press office seeking comment weren’t
immediately returned.  
 The FARC, which is classified as a terrorist organization
by the U.S. and the European Union, was founded in 1964 as a
rural, peasant, Marxist insurgency. The group a decade ago
numbered about 18,000 and has been whittled down to half that
since 2002, when Uribe ordered an offensive against the rebels.  
 Funding Sources  
 The FARC traffics in cocaine to fund its activities,
according to the U.S. government. It also stages kidnappings for
ransom.  
 Uribe leaves office on Aug. 7 after enjoying an approval
rating of more than 60 percent because of his success in driving
the FARC and other guerrilla groups out of Colombia’s urban
areas and into its remote jungles and small towns.  
 Last week, Uribe’s government released evidence that it
claims proves that neighbor Venezuela is sheltering rebels in 87
camps. Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  denied the charges and
broke off diplomatic relations with Colombia in response, saying
the accusations were a pretext for an invasion by Colombia and
its ally the U.S.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charlie Devereux  in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Juan Manuel Santos  
                       
                         
                           Alejandra Parra/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Juan Manuel Santos, Colombia's former defense minister and current presidential candidate of the La U Party, speaks at a news conference during a campaign stop in Tunja, Colombia. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Juan Manuel Santos, Colombia's former defense minister and current presidential candidate of the La U Party, speaks at a news conference during a campaign stop in Tunja, Colombia. Photographer: Alejandra Parra/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
