-- Congo Army Clashes With Ugandan Rebels Displace 90,000 Civilians, UN Says
-- Michael J. Kavanagh
-- 2010-07-30T16:40:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/congo-army-clashes-with-ugandan-rebels-displace-90-000-civilians-un-says.html

          
          
             A Congolese army operation aimed at
flushing Ugandan rebels linked to Somalia’s Islamic al-Shabaab
militia out of eastern Congo forced 90,000 civilians to flee
their homes.  
 Violence is blocking relief efforts and the number of
displaced is expected to rise, the United Nation’s Office for
the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs said in an e-mail
today. The clashes with the rebel Allied Democratic Forces-
National Army for the Liberation of Uganda began in late June in
the Beni area of North Kivu province, near the Ugandan border.  
 “We’ve decided to put an end to this phenomenon and clean
up this region,” Major Sylvain Ekenge, an army spokesman, said
in a phone interview today from Goma, capital of North Kivu. The
operations have killed at least 30 rebels, Ekenge said.  
 The ADF-NALU was largely destroyed by Congolese and UN
forces in 2005, according to the UN, though the group has
rebuilt itself. The remaining rebels have been involved in the
trafficking of diamonds and gold from Congo’s North Kivu and
Ituri provinces, according to a 2007 report by the  World Bank .  
 The group is also involved in poaching, extortion, illicit
trade in timber and attacks on civilians, Ekenge said.  
 Extreme Ideology  
 The ADF-NALU is on the U.S.’s  Terrorist Exclusion List ,
which blocks members and foreigners who support the group from
entering the U.S. Members of al-Shabaab, which claimed
responsibility for the July 11 bombings in Kampala, Uganda, in
which 76 people died, have been linked to the ADF-NALU, Ekenge
said.  
 “They are forming a coalition,” he said. At least half of
the ADF-NALU is Congolese, many of whom are of the same ethnic
group as Ugandan members across the border, he said.  
 On July 28, rebels killed 15 civilians and two soldiers in
a minibus on the way from a market near Kasindi on the Ugandan
border, he said. Congo’s army estimates that about 350 rebels
remain.  
 A second phase of operations against the rebels will begin
soon, Ekenge said.  
 “We will clean up the northern part of the territory toward
 Orientale province ,” he said. The first phase, which ended
earlier this week, focused on the southern part of Beni
territory towards the Ugandan border.  
 UN peacekeepers aren’t assisting the Congolese army in the
offensive, Madnodje Mounoubai, spokesman for the UN mission in
Congo, said by phone today from Kinshasa, the capital.  
 The Congolese army “did not approach us to prepare this
operation,” he said. “It’s something they did on their own.”  
 Uganda’s army isn’t involved in the fighting either, though
it is sharing information with Congo, Ekenge said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Kavanagh  in Bukavu at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        