-- Czech Strategic Interests Play Role in Nuclear Tender, Premier Necas Says
-- Peter Laca
-- 2010-07-30T10:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/czech-strategic-interests-play-role-in-nuclear-tender-premier-necas-says.html

          
          
             The Czech Republic, which seeks to
reduce its dependence on Russian energy, will consider strategic
security interests along with price when it decides who will
build new nuclear reactors, Prime Minister  Petr Necas  said.  
 The country asked a Russian group led by ZAO
Atomstroyexport to bid against  Westinghouse Electric Co.  and
France’s  Areva  SA for a contract to build two reactors at its
Temelin Nuclear Power Plant and possibly another at the older
Dukovany facility. The Russians were approached to increase
competition and keep the final price down, Necas said.  
 “The extension of Temelin and Dukovany is not a private
company project,” the 45-year-old prime minister said July 29
during an interview at his office in Prague. “It’s a strategic
move for the Czech Republic, and the country’s strategic
interests will play a big role.”  
 Like other former Communist countries in central and
eastern Europe, the Czech Republic is turning to nuclear power
to cut carbon emissions from burning coal and to limit its
dependence on Russian gas and oil. Disputes between OAO Gazprom,
Russia’s gas monopoly, Ukraine and Belarus have cut the flow of
gas to parts of Europe three times since 2006.  
 The Czech Republic gets 59 percent of its crude oil imports
and about three-quarters of its natural gas from Russia,
according to the Ministry of Industry and Trade.  
 CEZ Plans  
 State-controlled power producer  CEZ AS  is expected to pick
the winning bidder in the beginning of 2012. The Temelin
contract alone is worth about $8 billion, according to
Westinghouse’s European Chief Executive Officer Anders Jackson.  
 “It’s good to use basic elements of competition, yet we
must respect the strategic and security interests of the Czech
Republic,” Necas said of the Temelin contract. “The lower the
number of bidders in the tender, the higher the final price.”  
 Security of energy supply will be a key component of Czech
foreign policy, the prime minister said.  
 The Czechs will work to reduce their dependence on gas and
oil from “certain countries and certain transit routes” by
increasing their support for projects such as the Nabucco
pipeline, planned to carry gas from Turkey’s Caspian coast to
Austria, or construction of a liquefied natural gas terminal on
the Adriatic or the Baltic coast, he said.  
 The Czech Republic must also push for further integration
of its energy system with those of neighboring countries,
“whether it’s electricity, gas or oil,” Necas said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net 
 Peter Laca  in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        