-- Democrats Take Lobbyist Cash as Obama Knocks Special Interests
-- Jonathan D. Salant
-- 2010-07-31T04:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/democrats-take-lobbyist-cash-as-obama-knocks-special-interests.html

          
          
             As President  Barack Obama  thrashes
Republicans for allowing “special interest takeovers of our
elections,” his Democratic Party is benefiting from millions of
campaign dollars brought in by lobbyists.  
 Lobbyists raised at least $1.5 million in the first six
months of the year to help elect Democrats to the House,
according to a report from the  Democratic Congressional Campaign
Committee . That was the most of any congressional fundraising
committee and almost three times as much as the House Republican
campaign committee took in from lobbyists.  
 While Obama criticizes the influence held by lobbyists in
Washington, candidates rely on them to help fund increasingly
expensive campaigns. Reports released yesterday show lobbyists
also personally contributed to Democrats including House Speaker
 Nancy Pelosi  of California and Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
of Nevada.  
 Fundraising helps lobbyists get in “on the main floor with
the Democratic members of Congress as well as the White House,”
said  Craig Holman , who handles campaign finance issues for
Public Citizen, a Washington advocacy group. “When it comes to
negotiating legislation, they get to be key players.”  
 As the result of a 2007 law, party and campaign committees
have to report to the Federal Election Commission contributions
of more than $16,000 that are raised, or  “bundled,”  by
lobbyists. The lobbyists separately have to report to Congress
 personal contributions  they make to candidates for federal
office.  
 Party Committees  
 The  National Republican Senatorial Committee  ranked second
among party fundraising committees that reported lobbyist
bundling, with $900,750 raised in the first half. The  National
Republican Congressional Committee , the DCCC’s House
counterpart, reported $567,000. The  Democratic Senatorial
Campaign Committee  disclosed $213,775 in lobbyist-bundled
donations.  
 DCCC spokesman  Ryan Rudominer  contrasted his party’s
efforts to limit the influence of special interests with
Republicans, pointing to the 2007 disclosure law passed under
Democratic leadership of Congress. He wouldn’t comment on
whether bundlers take part in any special DCCC programs.  
 “Democrats enacted the strongest ethics and lobbying
reform in history,” Rudominer said. “What we do is fully
transparent and disclosed.”  
 Obama refused to take lobbyist or political action
committee donations during his 2008 presidential campaign. And
he unsuccessfully pushed this week for legislation that would
require corporations and unions to disclose their spending on
political advertising. Republicans in the Senate blocked the
measure.  
 ‘Historic Steps’  
 “The president has taken historic steps to limit the
influence of special interests, closing the revolving door
between the White House and K Street and making the policymaking
process transparent,” White House spokesman  Ben LaBolt  said.
Democrats have also worked to “prohibit corporations from
spending limitless amounts to influence elections,” he said.  
 Soon after taking office, Obama tightened the rules on when
top White House aides can lobby the government after leaving
their public posts. He also barred lobbyists who join the
administration from working on issues they handled in their
previous jobs.  
 Much of the DCCC’s bundling haul came from  Brian Wolff ,
senior vice president at Washington’s  Edison Electric Institute ,
a trade group for electric companies. Wolff, a former political
director for Pelosi and executive director at the DCCC, brought
in $716,300 in the first half, the FEC report shows.  
 Wolff  was traveling and wasn’t available for comment. Wolff
“is someone who has a long history in working in elections and
is dedicated to keeping a strong majority,” Rudominer said.  
 BP Lobbyist  
 The next biggest lobbyist fundraiser for the DCCC during
the first half was  Tony Podesta , who raised $144,400 and lobbies
on behalf of British oil producer  BP Plc  among other companies.
Podesta said he doesn’t need to raise money to gain access to
lawmakers; he said he does it because he’s a Democrat.  
 “I don’t raise money for anybody I don’t already know and
admire,” Podesta said. He and his wife, lobbyist  Heather Podesta , have held an annual DCCC fundraiser for years, even
when Republicans controlled the House, he said.  
 Lobbyist  Vincent Roberti , who lobbies for  United Parcel
Service Inc. , raised $125,400. His firm was paid $160,000 by
Atlanta-based UPS during the first six months of the year to
lobby on a House-approved provision that would make it easier
for employees of UPS rival  FedEx Corp.  employees to unionize.  
 Roberti couldn’t be reached for comment.  
 Schumer Donations  
 Democratic leaders in Congress also benefited from the
lobbyist fundraising. New York Senator  Charles Schumer , the
third-ranking Democratic leader in the chamber, reported
$389,940 in bundling in the first half; Reid disclosed $182,285.
Washington Senator  Patty Murray , the Democratic Conference
secretary, got $146,800.  
 In the House, Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman  Henry Waxman  and Education and Labor Committee Chairman  George Miller 
each reported more than $134,000 in bundling. The two
congressmen, both from California, played vital roles in the
passage of health-care overhaul legislation.  
 Aides to Schumer, Murray, Waxman and Miller weren’t
available for comment. Reid spokesman  Jim Manley  pointed to his
boss’s work on health care and the financial regulation bills as
evidence that he takes on special interests.  
 “There is a clear line between official duties and the
campaign,” Manley said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kristin Jensen  in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       House Speaker Nancy Pelosi  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, a California Democrat, speaks during a news conference in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, a California Democrat, speaks during a news conference in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
