-- Dish to File Complaint Against Comcast for Blocking Philadelphia Sports
-- Todd Shields
-- 2010-07-30T20:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/dish-to-file-complaint-against-comcast-for-blocking-philadelphia-sports.html

          
          
             Dish Network Corp.  plans to file a
complaint with U.S. regulators against  Comcast Corp.  for
withholding Philadelphia professional sports telecasts from the
satellite operator.  
 Comcast “has refused to enter into good-faith
discussions” after receiving a request for access to Comcast
SportsNet Philadelphia, Englewood, Colorado-based Dish said in
an e-mailed statement. Dish plans to file a complaint with the
U.S. Federal Communications Commission, it said.  
 There’s no evidence Dish has suffered the competitive harm
needed to succeed with a claim before the FCC, a Comcast
spokesman, Tim Fitzpatrick, said in an e-mailed message. “We
remain willing to discuss carriage” of SportsNet Philadelphia
with Dish, Fitzpatrick said.  
 Philadelphia-based Comcast’s withholding of sports from
satellite rivals has become an issue in its proposed merger with
 General Electric Co. ’s NBC Universal. Dish in a  filing  called
the practice an abuse of market power, and DirecTV  said 
withholding SportsNet Philadelphia gives Comcast an unfair
advantage.  
 In January, the FCC made it easier to challenge cable
companies for withholding programming. The agency said Dish and
DirecTV lost viewers in Philadelphia because they can’t show
Phillies baseball, Eagles football and Flyers hockey.  
 Jen Howard , an FCC spokeswoman, declined to comment.  
 DirecTV is waiting to hear back from Comcast regarding its
request for carriage, said Darris Gringeri, a spokesman for the
El Segundo, California-based company, the largest U.S. satellite
operator.  
 SportsNet Philadelphia  
 Because Comcast withholds SportsNet Philadelphia, the
percentage of households with TV that subscribe to satellite
service in the city was 40 percent less than what could
otherwise be expected, the FCC  calculated  in 2006. Philadelphia,
the fourth-largest U.S. television market, has about 3 million
homes with television, according to market researcher Nielsen
Co.  
 Comcast rose 34 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $19.47 at 4 p.m.
New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Dish gained 19 cents
to $20.08, while DirecTV climbed 45 cents to $37.16.  
 Comcast offers SportsNet Philadelphia to other rivals
including Herndon, Virginia-based RCN Corp., which competes with
Comcast in regions including the Philadelphia suburbs, and to
Verizon Communication’s FiOS TV product.  
 Comcast’s proposed $28 billion takeover of NBC Universal
would give it control of TV stations owned and operated by the
network as well as NBC’s cable channels and a movie studio. The
 FCC  and the U.S. Justice Department are reviewing the deal.  
 Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, has
filed papers opposing the merger as it is currently proposed.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net ;
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Dish Network Corp. Files Complaint Against Comcast Corp.  
                       
                         
                           Matthew Staver/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A Dish Network Corp. receiver is attached to the side of a home. Dish Network Corp. plans to file a complaint with U.S. regulators against Comcast Corp. for withholding access to Philadelphia professional sports telecasts from the satellite operator. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A Dish Network Corp. receiver is attached to the side of a home. Dish Network Corp. plans to file a complaint with U.S. regulators against Comcast Corp. for withholding access to Philadelphia professional sports telecasts from the satellite operator. Photographer: Matthew Staver/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
