-- Disney Names ABC Family's Paul Lee to Lead ABC Network, Replace McPherson
-- Anthony Palazzo
-- 2010-07-30T20:08:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/disney-names-abc-family-s-paul-lee-to-lead-abc-network-replace-mcpherson.html

          
          
             Walt Disney Co.  named  Paul Lee 
president of the ABC Entertainment Group, replacing  Steve McPherson , who resigned unexpectedly this week.  
 Lee will oversee the ABC Studios and supervise scheduling,
marketing and programming, Burbank, California-based  Disney  said
today in a statement. A replacement for him at ABC Family, the
cable channel where he was president, will be made in the near
future, Disney said.  
 The change comes as the networks promote their slates to
critics at meetings in Beverly Hills, California, ahead of the
TV season that starts in September. ABC presents its lineup on
Aug. 1.  Anne Sweeney , president of ABC Television Group, cited
Lee’s creative instincts and ability to develop programming that
resonates with audiences.  
 “Paul’s success at ABC Family is as amazing as it is
indisputable,” Sweeney said in the statement.  
 ABC was the only major U.S. broadcaster to lose viewers
last season and was also down in the 18-to-49-year-old group
that advertisers seek, according to Nielsen Co. The network is
adding six dramas to its schedule starting in September.  
 McPherson, in a statement from his publicist, said he would
announce plans that include an “entrepreneurial venture in the
spirits business” and “involvement in a new media company.”  
 Third among TV networks in prime-time audience, ABC plans
to air new shows including “Body of Proof” starring  Dana Delany  and “Detroit 1-8-7,” about a mock-documentary crew that
follows around homicide detectives. The network also picked up
the comedy “Mr. Sunshine,” featuring  Matthew Perry  as manager
of a San Diego sports arena.  
 Comedy Block  
 McPherson established a block of comedy shows on Wednesday
nights last TV season that includes three returning programs:
“Modern Family,” “Cougar Town” and “The Middle.”  
 The network sold about $2.4 billion in ads ahead of the new
season for its full-day schedule, with average prime-time rates
rising 8 percent to 9 percent, a person with knowledge of the
matter said on June 9. ABC sold 75 percent to 80 percent of its
inventory, the person said.  
 By comparison NBC, last in prime-time viewers, sold about
$2.5 billion in advertising, with rates rising about 7 percent,
another person said on June 10. The network pre-sold about 70
percent of its prime-time inventory, that person said.  
 Disney, the world’s biggest media company, fell 2 cents to
$33.69 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
 trading . The shares have climbed 4.5 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
 Anthony Palazzo  in Los Angeles at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        