-- Dodd Urging White House to Tap Bair as Head of New U.S. Consumer Bureau
-- Alison Vekshin
-- 2010-07-30T21:57:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/dodd-urges-white-house-to-nominate-fdic-s-bair-as-head-of-consumer-bureau.html

          
          
             Senate Banking Committee Chairman
 Christopher Dodd  has urged the White House to nominate Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair  as head of the new
consumer bureau, according to two people with direct knowledge
of the matter.  
 Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat who helped write the
legislation that creates the Bureau of Consumer Financial
Protection, is backing Bair, a Republican, as the agency’s first
leader because he questions whether Harvard law professor
 Elizabeth Warren  could garner the necessary 60 votes to be
confirmed by the Senate, the people said.  
 Senator  Susan Collins  of Maine, who was one of three
Republicans to vote in favor of the financial regulatory bill,
also supports Bair for the consumer post, the people said.  
 Bair today declined through a spokesman to comment. She has
previously said she is not interested in the job and expects to
return to academia or engage in non-profit work when her term as
FDIC chairman expires in June 2011.  
 The financial-overhaul law President  Barack Obama  signed on
July 21 creates a consumer bureau at the Federal Reserve to
police banks for mortgage and credit-card lending abuses.  
 Warren, chairman of the congressional panel overseeing the
Troubled Asset Relief Program, has received public support for
the consumer job from dozens of House Democrats, including
Dodd’s counterpart, Financial Services Committee Chairman  Barney Frank  of Massachusetts. She also has been supported by leaders
of consumer and union organizations. Financial industry groups
have questioned whether her consumer crusading would make it
difficult for her to negotiate fairly with businesses on
regulatory matters.  
 ‘Qualified’  
 Warren is “qualified, no question about it,” Dodd told
reporters this week. “But the question is whether she’s
confirmable.”  
 Bair, 56, who worked as an aide to then-Senator  Bob Dole  of
Kansas, was appointed in 2006 by President  George W. Bush  to
head the FDIC. She was among the first regulators to prod the
mortgage industry to modify loans at risk of foreclosure to help
borrowers keep their homes as losses mounted after the collapse
of the subprime market.  
 Bair clashed with former Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson
and  Timothy Geithner , then the president of the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York, during the government’s efforts to stabilize
the financial system in 2008.  
 White House spokeswoman  Jennifer Psaki  did not immediately
return a request for comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in Washington at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        