-- Wall Street Lion's Death Puts Winning Thoroughbred in Nick Brady's Stable
-- Nancy Kercheval
-- 2010-07-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/dreyfus-death-puts-rising-colt-in-ex-treasury-secretary-brady-s-barn.html

          
          
             The death of the “Lion of Wall
Street” sent a rising colt unexpectedly into a Maryland auction
where it fetched a sale-high $850,000 from former U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Nicholas Brady .  
 Trappe Shot, unbeaten in four starts this year, will
challenge Kentucky Derby winner Super Saver and Preakness Stakes
victor Lookin At Lucky in the Aug. 1 Haskell Invitational at New
Jersey’s Monmouth Park. A win in the 1 1/8-mile race would put
him among the top 3-year-olds in North America.  
 “I let the horse do the talking,” Brady said in a
telephone interview. “I’m not in that game.”  
 Trappe Shot is the co-second choice with Super Saver at 3-1
in morning-line odds, behind Lookin at Lucky at 5-2. Eight
horses are entered.  
 The colt, a Chestnut then known as Tashop, was among the
thoroughbreds owned by  Jack Dreyfus , the founder of the Dreyfus
Fund who operated Hobeau Farm in Ocala, Florida. When Dreyfus
died on March 27, 2009, at 95, the family began selling the
horses.  
 “Jack Dreyfus had a quality stable,” said Brady, 80, now
chairman of Washington-based Darby Overseas Investments Ltd. and
owner of Mill House LLC racing stable. “He was a force in
horseracing. He did things right.”  
 Less than two months after Dreyfus died, Brady visited the
fairgrounds in Timonium, Maryland, before the  Fasig-Tipton 
auction to take a look at the standout colt from champion sire
Tapit. He then gave the nod to his bloodstock agent, Steve
Young, who had trained horses for 25 years.  
 Great Movement  
 “He was the best bred in the sale,” Young, 48, said in a
telephone interview. “The main thing that attracted us were the
mechanics of the way he moves. This horse would have never been
in this sale except that Mr. Dreyfus passed away. The horse was
put into this sale as an afterthought.”  
 The Florida-bred colt would more likely have been sent to
Fasig-Tipton’s sale at Calder Casino and Race Course in Miami
Gardens, except that auction had been held only weeks before
Dreyfus’s death and the estate executors were anxious to sell
the stock, Young said.  
 The unraced thoroughbred attracted the attention of five
bidders, said Young, whose offer of $850,000 wasn’t challenged.  
 “I don’t think we were done,” he said without disclosing
how much Mill House was willing to pay for Trappe Shot, now one
of six horses in Brady’s racing stable.  
 Dreyfus’s horses became known for upsets in thoroughbred
racing during the 1960s and ‘70s. Beau Purple defeated five-time
Horse of the Year Kelso in three meetings, including the Man ‘o’
War Stakes at Belmont Park in 1962.  
 Beat Secretariat  
 During Triple Crown-champion Secretariat’s reign as Horse
of the Year, Hobeau Farm’s Onion beat the 3-year-old in the
Whitney Stakes at New York’s Saratoga Race Course in 1973, while
Dreyfus’s Prove Out won that year’s Woodward Stakes at Belmont
Park.  
 Trappe Shot didn’t have such a stunning debut at Saratoga
12 months ago, finishing last of five runners.  
 “Anything that could go wrong did,” said Young, who has
worked for Brady for 15 months. “He just needed time to grow up
and mature.”  
 Brady had turned Trappe Shot over to Kiaran McLaughlin to
train for his debut. McLaughlin said that after the horse
recovered from a stumble out of the gate at Saratoga, jockey
Alan Garcia ran out of goggles and was riding blind.  
 “He just had a rough trip,” the 49-year-old trainer said
in a telephone interview.  
 McLaughlin was prepping Trappe Shot for April’s Withers
Stakes in Jamaica, New York, to increase the colt’s winnings for
entry to the Kentucky Derby when an ankle inflammation
interrupted his workout schedule and he missed the race.  
 ‘Play Catch-Up’  
 “Brady wasn’t putting any pressure on me,” said
McLaughlin. “But we were playing catch-up again.”  
 Trappe Shot began his  winning streak  on Feb. 21 in his
second start, crossing the finish line at Gulfstream Park in
Hallandale, Florida, 10 1/4 lengths in front. A month later, the
colt won by 12 3/4 lengths in an allowance race at Gulfstream
and then scored a 4-length win June 5 in a seven-furlong trip on
the Belmont Stakes undercard.  
 In his July 10 stakes debut in the $167,500 Long Branch
Stakes at Monmouth, he scored a 2 1/2-length victory in his
first race around two turns.  
 McLaughlin said he usually prefers his horses to have more
than three weeks between races.  
 “But he won easily and this is the same track, the same
surface,” he said. “If he wins, he’ll move into the top five
3-year-olds.”  
 History Repeats  
 If history repeats itself from 1975 and 2000, Trappe Shot’s
chances of becoming a 3-year-old male champion are good. During
those years, three different horses won the Derby, Preakness and
Belmont races -- the same as in 2010 -- and the winners of the
Eclipse Awards for 3-year-old males, Tiznow and Wajima, had
never started in a Triple Crown race -- just like Trappe Shot.
Brady, whose family has been in the thoroughbred business for a
century, said he’ll be at the Haskell “looking for a win” from
Trappe Shot.  
 McLaughlin is pointing the colt toward the Aug. 28 Travers
Stakes at Saratoga and a spot in the Breeders’ Cup World
Championships at Churchill Downs in Louisville, Kentucky, in
November.  
 “We’re taking it one step at a time,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nancy Kercheval  in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Alan Garcia rides Trappe Shot #3 at Monmouth Park in Oceanport, New Jersey. Photographer: Bill Denver/EQUI-PHOTO via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Nicholas Brady, former U.S. Treasury secretary, attends a race at Monmouth Park in Oceanport, New Jersey. Photographer: Bill Denver/EQUI-PHOTO via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
