-- EADS Raises Targets as Airbus Sales and Orders Climb
-- Andrea Rothman
-- 2010-07-30T09:19:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/eads-second-quarter-profit-slumps-51-after-airbus-delivers-fewer-planes.html

          
          
             European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co.  raised its target for 2010 profit and revenue as deliveries
of passenger jets at its Airbus unit increase.  
 Sales will grow to more than 44 billion euros ($57 billion)
from 42.8 billion euros in 2009 and adjusted earnings before
interest and tax should reach about 1.2 billion euros, EADS,
based in Paris and Munich, said today. The company had in March
predicted Ebit of 1 billion euros and stagnant sales.  
 “This is positive,” said  Eric Sharper , an analyst at
Credit Agricole. “The market was looking for some kind of
improvement in the guidance. Most analysts believed they were
being a bit conservative, given the momentum we’ve been seeing
in regard to new orders.”  
 Airbus, which contributes two-thirds of revenue at EADS,
expects deliveries this year to reach 500 units, up from last
year’s 498. The aircraft leasing industry is helping spearhead a
recovery in demand as air travel rebounds from the slump caused
by the financial crisis.  
 EADS jumped as much as 3.2 percent to 18.15 euros in Paris
trading today and it traded at 18.13 euros as of 9:13 a.m. local
time.  
 The general outlook at EADS has morphed from ”cautiously
optimistic” to ”optimistic” in recent weeks amid signs that
more people are traveling and paying higher fares to do it,
Chief Financial Officer  Hans Peter Ring  said on a call today.  
 British Airways Plc today signaled an increase in ticket
prices. The carrier’s yield, a measure of average fares, jumped
almost 14 percent in the second quarter.  
 Positive Surprise  
 “We’re all surprised by the speed of the recovery,” Ring
told journalists. ‘We’re seeing positive news from passenger and
traffic growth, GDP data, and yesterday had figures from IATA
that were very strong, showing traffic is at pre-crisis levels,
with yields recovering,” he said, referring to average ticket
prices. “The dollar is stronger and the financial sector has
stabilized as well. All that is in the right direction.”  
 International scheduled traffic statistics for June showed
continued growth, the International Air Transport Association
said yesterday. Passenger demand was up 11.9 percent last month
compared with the same month a year earlier, while international
scheduled freight traffic showed a 26.5 percent improvement.  
 Acquisitions  
 Ring also reiterated that EADS is looking for acquisitions
in services, defense and security, and could spend “several
hundreds of millions” of euros on any given target. A cap of
about 1 billion euros exists on purchases, he said.  
 No acquisition is “imminent” and it’s unlikely any deal
will close this year except in a “best-case scenario,” he
said.  
 EADS’s second-quarter earnings before interest and taxes,
before goodwill impairment and exceptional items fell to 323
million euros from 656 million euros, the company said in an
earlier statement. Net income fell 61 percent to 82 milion euros
from 208 million euros  while sales dropped 3 percent to 11.36
billion euros from 11.73 billion euros.  
 The adjusted EBIT figure of 1.2 billion euros excludes a
negative foreign-exchange impact of 200 million euros.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Rothman  in Toulouse, France at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        