-- Health Law Needs Repeal: Douglas Holtz-Eakin and Michael Ramlet
-- Michael Ramlet
-- 2010-07-30T01:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/health-law-needs-repeal-commentary-by-douglas-holtz-eakin-michael-ramlet.html

          
          
             The new health-care law is a threat
to the health of small businesses. Its heavy dosage of mandates
and penalties will be a financial burden, and the law is riddled
with hidden barriers to stronger job growth.  
 The small business implications of the legislation are
important because data from the ADP National Employment Report
shows that since January 2001 companies with one to 49 employees
were responsible for 36 percent of job growth, while those with
50 to 499 workers accounted for 44 percent of new jobs.  
 Small business vitality is crucial to the economic fortunes
of U.S. workers, and substantial new costs that curtail their
hiring should be of concern to companies, workers and
policymakers alike.  
 Sadly, the new health-care law is an assault on small
business, beginning with the 3.8 percent Medicare tax on net
investment income -- a direct tax on many business owners. Of
even greater concern is the law’s most celebrated feature -- the
mandate to cover full-time employees with health insurance. For
businesses with more than 50 workers, this means paying a
penalty if any full-time workers receive subsidized coverage.  
 For larger companies already providing insurance, the law
codifies the status quo. For every other company, the mandate
will compete for scarce  capital  that might be used for hiring
and expansion. It is even worse for firms with 50 employees or
fewer, as the mandate presents a tremendous growth hurdle. For a
business not offering insurance, hiring the 51st worker will
trigger a penalty of $42,000. How many firms will choose not to
expand?  
 Tax Collector  
 The insult to these injuries is a draconian requirement
that businesses submit Form 1099 paperwork to the Internal
Revenue Service for every supplier from which they purchase more
than $600 of goods each year.  
 Now business owners must ask: Where did my employees buy
 gasoline  for the company car? Take a taxi? Buy sandwiches for a
meeting? Every type of transaction will require companies to run
a total and request tax identification numbers. The alternative
is to stop patronizing small businesses and deal only with mega-
corporations that will handle the record-keeping for them.  
 Add to these costs the fact that they have nothing to do
with health care and that the IRS says it will have little use
for the information. It is a small wonder that legislation is
already pending in the House and Senate to  repeal  the 1099
requirement.  
 Growth Penalties  
 Advocates of the health-care law respond that the small-
business tax credit will offset these burdens. But the credit is
temporary (available for at most two years after 2014), is
limited to only the smallest companies (fewer than 25 workers),
penalizes the best-paying (workers must average less than
$50,000 in pay) and requires that businesses switch insurance to
the government-run exchanges. Furthermore it is laden with
clawbacks that penalize growth.  
 The costs to small business will be compounded by the
indirect effects of the legislation. Hidden beneath its
budgetary sleight-of-hand are two expensive new entitlements
that will exacerbate deficits as far as the eye can see.  
 As businesses juggle the potential for higher interest
rates or higher taxes, they will face higher insurance premiums.
The law levies roughly $500 billion in new taxes that will enter
the supply chain for medical services, revealing themselves as
higher medical costs. As health-care costs rise, insurance will
become more expensive.  
 Red Flags  
 Small business will incur these costs while juggling the
need to make benefits design changes. According to Mercer, a
leading global health benefits consulting firm, 62 percent of
small businesses have at least one red flag in their plan design
that violates the new law’s mandates, and 14 percent have two
red flags.  
 Similarly, 38 percent of small businesses are at risk for
incurring “unaffordable coverage” penalties, which are
assessed when employee insurance premium contributions are more
than 9.5 percent of the average annual salary. There will be
strong incentives to call it quits and simply pay penalties.  
 The authors of the health-care law reflect liberal
indifference to the climate for business, perhaps believing that
businesses have a hidden well of resources or an infinite
ability to evade the burdens placed on them. Businesses will try
to shift costs. But their ability to push the burden on
customers with  higher prices  is quite circumscribed.  
 Instead, we would expect that the effective burden will be
borne by workers in the form of lower  wage growth , fewer hours
and reduced job growth. The only other avenue is for business
owners to pay the costs out of scarce capital, raising the
prospect of increased failure rates.  
 Flunking Grade  
 In what might be the greatest irony of all, the health-care
law is a threat to U.S. medicine. That’s because the most common
business form among health providers is the sole practitioner.  
 The law flunks the test of real health-care reform. Real
reform would: encourage providers to offer higher-quality care
at lower costs; reduce the cost pressures that underlie the
bankrupt Medicare and Medicaid entitlements; and give every
American access to more options for quality insurance.  
 The health-care overhaul law is bad medicine and bad
economic policy. From either perspective, the debate now moves
to repeal, replace, retreat, repair and -- certainly -- regret.  
 ( Douglas Holtz-Eakin , formerly director of the
Congressional Budget Office, is president of the American Action
Forum. Michael Ramlet is coordinator of Operation Healthcare
Choice. The opinions expressed are their own.)  
 To contact the authors of this column:
Douglas Holtz-Eakin at 
 dholtzeakin@americanactionforum.org 
Michael Ramlet at 
 mramlet@americanactionforum.org   
          
          


  


        