-- U.S. Economy Grew 2.4% in Second Quarter, Below Forecast
-- Timothy R. Homan
-- 2010-07-30T16:14:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/economy-in-u-s-grew-less-than-forecast-as-trade-gap-widened.html

          
          
             The U.S. economy slowed in the
second quarter as a scarcity of jobs eroded consumer spending,
leaving the rebound dependent on a surge in business investment.  
 Gross domestic product grew at a 2.4 percent annual pace,
less than forecast, after a 3.7 percent first-quarter gain that
was larger than previously estimated, according to Commerce
Department data issued today in Washington. Other reports showed
business activity unexpectedly accelerated in July and consumer
sentiment fell less than projected.  
 “The economy is muddling through,”  Ethan Harris , head of
North America economics at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch Global
Research in New York, said in an interview. “We’re probably not
going to see a really strong number for a while. We need to see
some pickup in job growth.”  
 Stocks fluctuated between gains and losses as the reports
on confidence and on activity by Chicago-area business managers
eased concern the economic rebound was losing steam. Efforts to
diversify from consumers to businesses is among reasons why
companies like  Amazon.com Inc.  are pouring money into new plants
and equipment, which is helping sustain growth.  
 The median forecast of 81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected a 2.6 percent second-quarter growth rate.
Estimates ranged from gains of 1 percent to 4 percent.  
 Chicago Barometer  
 The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc.’s business
barometer rose to 62.3 this month, exceeding the median forecast
of economists surveyed which anticipated the measure would drop
to 56. The June reading was 59.1 and figures greater than 50
signal expansion.  
 The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
 consumer sentiment  declined to 67.8 this month from 76 in June.
A preliminary measure issued earlier this month was 66.5.  
 The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent to
1,100.07 at 12:12 p.m. in New York. The yield on the 2-year
Treasury note drop to 0.55 percent from 0.58 late yesterday and
touched a record-low 0.546 percent.  
 The worst U.S. recession since the 1930s was even deeper
than previously estimated, reflecting bigger slumps in consumer
spending and housing, according to the Commerce Department’s
annual revisions also issued today.  
 The world’s largest economy shrank 4.1 percent from the
fourth quarter of 2007 to the second quarter of 2009, compared
with the 3.7 percent drop previously on the books, the report
showed. Household spending fell 1.2 percent in 2009, twice as
much as previously projected and the biggest decline since 1942.  
 Consumer Slowdown  
 Consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of
the economy, rose at a 1.6 percent pace last quarter, compared
with a 1.9 percent rate the previous three months that was
smaller than previously estimated, today’s report showed. Job
gains have been slow to take hold, curbing household purchases.  
 The economy lost 8.4 million jobs during the recession that
began in December 2007, the biggest employment slump in the
post-World War II era. So far this year, company payrolls grew
by 593,000 workers, according to Labor Department figures
earlier this month.  
 More than 7 out of 10 Americans say the economy is still
mired in recession, and the country is conflicted over how to
balance concerns over joblessness and the federal budget
deficit, according to a Bloomberg National Poll.  
 Just like the experts, Americans are torn about whether the
federal government should focus on curbing spending or creating
jobs, the poll conducted July 9-12 shows. Seven of 10 Americans
say reducing unemployment is the priority. At the same time, the
public is skeptical of the President  Barack Obama ’s stimulus
program and wary of more spending, with more than half saying
the deficit is “dangerously out of control.”  
 Small-Business Plan  
 Obama is trying to garner support for his plan to provide
$12 billion in tax breaks, ease terms for loans guaranteed by
the Small Business Administration and create a $30 billion fund
to help community banks offer loans to small businesses.  
 The  trade gap  in the second quarter widened to $425.9
billion from $338.4 billion, subtracting 2.8 percentage points
from growth, the biggest reduction since 1982, today’s report
showed. Imports grew at a 29 percent pace, while exports climbed
10 percent.  
 Manufacturers in the U.S. are reaping the benefits of the
global recovery.  Caterpillar Inc. , the world’s largest maker of
construction equipment, last week raised its full-year earnings
forecast on higher demand in developing countries for mining,
energy and rail equipment.  
 Growing Exports  
 “You’ve got strong growth in India and China that provides
demand for commodities,” Chief Financial Officer  Ed Rapp  said
in an interview July 22. “Most of the mining is happening in
the developing parts of the world.”  
 Gains in business investment are also supporting growth.
Corporate spending on  equipment and software  jumped at a 22
percent annual rate, the biggest increase since 1997.  
 Amazon.com, the world’s largest online retailer, forecast
third-quarter profit that missed analysts’ estimates after it
cut prices on the Kindle, its best-selling product, and
propelled capital spending to a record.  
 Under Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos , capital spending
ballooned to $196 million last quarter as Amazon.com built more
warehouses to safeguard a growing array of products that range
from books to car parts. He’s also adding data centers to beef
up a business of providing computing services to companies.  
 The jump in capital spending was the largest year-over-year
increase for the second quarter since 2005, Amazon said.  
 The Federal Reserve’s preferred price gauge, which is tied
to consumer spending and strips out food and energy costs, rose
at a 1.1 percent annual pace after an upwardly revised 1.2
percent rate in the first quarter, today’s report showed. The
revision may help ease concern over deflation, or a projected
drop in prices.  
 The GDP report also showed home construction rebounded from
a weather-depressed first quarter as a government tax credit
spurred sales. Inventories grew at a faster pace, adding a
percentage point to growth, and government spending accelerated.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Ben S. Bernanke  
                       
                         
                           Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve, listens to opening statements during his semiannual monetary policy report to the House Financial Services Committee in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve, listens to opening statements during his semiannual monetary policy report to the House Financial Services Committee in Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Guy Lebas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, discusses the U.S. second-quarter gross domestic product figures released by the Commerce Department today and the outlook for the economy.
     Growth in the U.S. slowed to a 2.4 percent annual rate in the second quarter, less than forecast, reflecting a larger trade deficit and an easing in consumer spending. Lebas speaks with Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop With Betty Liu.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
