-- EDF Net Income Tumbles 47% After Outlook Dims for Nuclear Project in U.S.
-- Tara Patel
-- 2010-07-30T10:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/edf-reports-47-drop-in-first-half-profit-amid-french-u-s-nuclear-delays.html

          
          
             Electricite de France SA , Europe’s
biggest power generator, reported a 47 percent drop in first-
half profit on a charge linked to the development of a nuclear
reactor in the U.S. and the outlook for low power prices there.  
 The utility took a provision of 1.1 billion euros (1.44
billion euros) related to its holding in Constellation Energy
Group Inc. due to the “less favorable” outlook for power
prices for existing power generators and a planned new nuclear
reactor at Calvert Cliffs, the Paris-based company said in an e-
mailed statement. EDF said building its Flamanville EPR model in
France would cost more and is two years behind schedule.  
 “The U.S. provision is bad news,”  Per Lekander , analyst
at UBS in Paris, said by e-mailed. Results were also hurt by
“poor availability” of nuclear reactors in France and the
U.K., he noted.  
 EDF has expanded in Europe, China and the U.S., driving up
debt, as it braces for a state-led overhaul of the French power
market and struggles to raise nuclear output at home. The
utility, which is selling its U.K. grid to cut borrowings, is
planning to develop EPR reactors in Italy, the U.K. and U.S.
even as costs and delays mount for its project in Normandy.  
 A group led by  Li Ka-shing ’s Cheung Kong Infrastructure
Holdings Ltd. offered 5.8 billion pounds ($9.1 billion) for
EDF’s U.K. power networks, the Hong Kong billionaire’s biggest
acquisition, Cheung Kong said today.  
 Calvert Cliffs  
 EDF retains its “ambition” to pursue development of the
Calvert Cliffs reactor in Maryland, Chief Financial Officer
 Thomas Piquemal  said today at a meeting with analysts. He said
getting loan guarantees is the “determining” factor.  
 The provision “covers the risks of impairment of the
assets of CENG, the investment in Unistar and certain future
costs and risks associated” with the Calvert Cliffs project,
the EDF statement said, referring to U.S. operations related to
Constellation and development of the reactor through Unistar.  
 The value and allocation of the provision will be finalized
later this year, it said.  
 “The risk is high,” Piquemal said. “There is a high
probability we will have to depreciate maybe Constellation
assets and maybe Unistar assets and risks, future costs of
future development.”  
 EDF reported  net income  of 1.7 billion euros in the first
half compared with 3.1 billion euros the previous year. That
missed the 2.52 billion euro  median estimate  of nine analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization rose 4 percent to 10.4 billion
euros, EDF said. The estimate was for 10 billion euros.  
 Earnings Growth  
 The company reiterated a forecast for growth in earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of 3 percent
to 5 percent, a net debt-to-Ebitda ratio of 2.5 to 3 and a
stable dividend.  
 The French company raised to about 5 billion euros the
estimated cost of building its 59th domestic reactor and first
EPR in Flamanville, Normandy from 4 billion euros. Executives
blamed the higher costs and delays on the fact that the model is
a “first-of-its-kind” and said lessons were being applied to
the EPR site at Taishan in China.  
 EDF completed last year its $4.5 billion purchase of a
stake in Constellation’s five existing reactors. Constellation
agreed in 2008 to sell an interest in the atomic plants to EDF
as it sought to avoid bankrupcy and after canceling a sale of
the whole company to  Warren Buffett ’s MidAmerican Energy
Holdings Co.  
 Unistar Holding  
 The French company owns 50 percent of UniStar Nuclear
Energy LLC, with Constellation owning the rest. Unistar is
seeking to build four EPRs. Piquemal said today it is only
pursuing the Calvert Cliffs reactor at the moment. EDF has spent
$6.5 billion on the Constellation and Unistar venture since
2007, Piquemal said.  
 “Prices of electricity are low and this is threatening
profitability,” he told reporters. “There is no concensus on
long-term prices.”  
 Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  has pledged to raise
French nuclear output in 2010 to boost profitability and reach a
target of making 85 percent of the country’s reactors available
for electricity production within five years. Storms and strikes
pushed atomic output to its lowest level in a decade last year.  
 Strikes at EDF’s reactors in France in the second quarter
of last year led to delays in refueling and maintenance, forcing
the utility to buy power on the spot market and operate more
expensive coal-and gas-fueled plants. The effects of the strikes
are still being felt on its reactor maintenance schedule.  
 Nuclear Availibility  
 EDF will raise output at French reactors this year compared
to 2009, Proglio said today. It reported nuclear availability at
77.6 percent during the first half, higher than the 74.2 percent
in the preceding six month period.  
 EDF ran its reactors at an availability rate of 78 percent
in 2009, compared with 79.2 percent in 2008 and 80.2 percent in
2007. The rate is a measure of how much power the utility can
produce relatively cheaply from nuclear stations, compared with
other plants or spot-market prices.  
 Technical problems with steam generators, stators and
transformers which have plagued French reactors, will be fixed
in the coming years as parts are replaced, the utility has said.  
 The French Senate is considering a law that would force EDF
to sell as much as a quarter of its nuclear output to rivals
such as GDF Suez SA. Debate on the legislation has focused on
the price EDF will charge for the power on the wholesale market
and whether the rate will cover production costs.  
 Extension of the Tartam power-rate system in France for
industrial customers until the end of the year will cost EDF
another 265 million euros, the utility said in the statement.  
 The law would do away with the so-called Tartam system of
rates, although it is unclear when it will take effect.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  at   tpatel2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        