-- EDF Reports 47% Drop in First-Half Profit Amid French, U.S. Nuclear Delays
-- Tara Patel
-- 2010-07-30T05:49:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/edf-reports-47-profit-drop-after-delays-on-french-u-s-nuclear-projects.html

          
          
             Electricite de France SA , Europe’s
biggest power generator, reported a 47 percent drop in first-
half profit after making a provision on nuclear development in
the U.S. because of financing delays.  
 Net income  was 1.7 billion euros ($2.2 billion) in the
first half compared with 3.1 billion euros the previous year,
EDF said in a statement today. That missed the 2.52 billion euro
 median estimate  of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization rose 4
percent to 10.4 billion euros, EDF said. The estimate was for 10
billion euros.  
 The company reiterated a forecast for growth in earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of 3 percent
to 5 percent and a net debt-to-Ebitda ratio of 2.5 to 3.  
 The utility took a provision of 1.1 billion euros for its
North American activities due to delays in developing nuclear
reactors and said building its Flamanville EPR model in France
would cost more and be delayed.  
 Extension of the Tartam power-rate system until the end of
the year will cost EDF another 265 million euros, the utility
said in the statement.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  has pledged to raise
French nuclear output in 2010 to boost profitability and reach a
target of making 85 percent of the country’s reactors available
for electricity production within five years. Storms and strikes
pushed atomic output to its lowest level in a decade last year.  
 EDF has expanded in Europe, China and the U.S., driving up
debt, as it braces for a state-led overhaul of the French power
market. The utility is selling its U.K. grid to cut borrowings.  
 French Strikes  
 Strikes at EDF’s reactors in France in the second quarter
of last year led to delays in refueling and maintenance, forcing
the utility to buy power on the spot market and operate more
expensive coal-and gas-fueled plants. The effects of the strikes
are still being felt on its reactor maintenance schedule.  
 The French company raised to 5 billion euros the estimated
cost of building its 59th domestic reactor in Flamanville,
Normandy from 4 billion euros. EDF is also developing new-
generation atomic plants in China and has plans for them in the
U.K. and U.S.  
 EDF ran its reactors at an availability rate of 78 percent
in 2009, compared with 79.2 percent in 2008 and 80.2 percent in
2007. The rate is a measure of how much power the utility can
produce relatively cheaply from nuclear stations, compared with
other plants or spot-market prices.  
 Technical problems with steam generators, stators and
transformers which have plagued French reactors, will be fixed
in the coming years as parts are replaced, the utility has said.  
 The French Senate is considering a law that would force EDF
to sell as much as a quarter of its nuclear output to rivals
such as GDF Suez SA. Debate on the legislation has focused on
the price EDF will charge for the power on the wholesale market
and whether the rate will cover production costs.  
 The law would do away with the so-called Tartam system of
rates, although it is unclear when.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  at   tpatel2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        