-- Lehman, AbitibiBowater, Esmerian, Centaur, Storm King Golf: Bankruptcy
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2010-07-30T12:29:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/lehman-abitibibowater-esmerian-centaur-storm-king-golf-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  and
brokerage unit Lehman Brothers Inc. face a tax liability of as
much as $283 million if they retain residual interests in real-
estate mortgage investment conduits known as Remics.  
 The companies filed a motion asking the bankruptcy judge
for authority to pay Citibank NA $24 million to assume the tax
liability.  
 The joint motion by the Lehman holding company and the
trustee for the brokerage, filed on July 28, explains how the
owner of the residual interests incurs so-called phantom income,
which gives rise to a tax liability even though there is no
actual income. Moreover, the phantom income can’t be offset by
operating losses. It can be offset only by specified tax
credits, which the Lehman companies lack.  
 The motion for offloading the tax liabilities will come to
bankruptcy court for approval on Aug. 18.  
 That hearing will also find Lehman seeking authorization
for a third time to allow insurance companies to honor policies
providing directors’ and officers’ liability insurance.  
 For the policy year May 2007 to May 2008, Lehman had $250
million in so-called D&O insurance. Claims on the policies soon
will have eaten through the first two layers providing the
initial $35 million of coverage. The new motion, Lehman’s third,
is seeking authority for payments by insurance companies
providing the next layers of coverage.  
 The Lehman holding company and its non-brokerage
subsidiaries filed a revised Chapter 11 plan and disclosure
statement in April. For details, click here and here for the
April 15 and 16 Bloomberg bankruptcy reports.  
 The Lehman holding company filed under Chapter 11 in New
York on Sept. 15, 2008, and sold office buildings and the North
American investment-banking business to London-based  Barclays
Plc  one week later. The Lehman brokerage operations went into
liquidation on Sept. 19, 2008, in the same court. The brokerage
is in the control of a trustee appointed under the Securities
Investor Protection Act.  
 The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, while the liquidation
proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the
brokerage operation is Securities Investors Protection Corp. v.
Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, both in U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Updates  
 Emergency Hearing this Morning in Texas Rangers Case  
 The  Texas Rangers  baseball club filed tantalizingly vague
papers yesterday setting up an emergency hearing today in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Fort Worth, Texas.  
 The motion underlying this morning’s hearing wasn’t merely
filed in redacted form, it was entirely filed under seal with
none of its contents made public. The request for authority to
file the papers secretly said the motion would ask the
bankruptcy judge to modify unspecified prior orders and allow
the team to “effectuate a settlement of certain disputes in
this case.”  
 The only court filing made public says that the settlement
would provide “substantial value to the debtor’s estate.”  
 On July 28 the bankruptcy judge signed an order extending
the deadline for voting on the reorganization plan to Aug. 2 for
the chief restructuring officer for the two partnerships that
own the team.  
 The team’s tersely written papers yesterday said that the
proposed settlement “contains confidential and highly-sensitive
terms that could be prejudicial to the debtor’s estate if the
motion is ultimately denied.”  
 Absent the order extending the time to vote, the
restructuring officer would have been required to vote by July
28. The confluence of the extension order and the motion for
approval of a settlement may be mere coincidence or could
indicate that the team and the restructuring officer are working
on a compromise.  
 Bids for the team are due on Aug. 3 in advance of the Aug.
4 auction. The first bid of $306.7 million cash comes from a
group including current President  Nolan Ryan  and sports lawyer
 Chuck Greenberg .  
 The auction will be followed immediately by a hearing to
approve the sale or a confirmation hearing on the team’s Chapter
11 plan.  
 The Rangers filed under Chapter 11 on May 24 with a sale
contract and a plan that claims to be paying all creditors in
full. Secured lenders owed $525 million would recover $256
million, according to the team’s disclosure statement based on
the original contract for $304 million.  
 The Rangers moved to Texas from Washington in 1972. The
team defaulted on payments owing to the lenders in March 2009.
Michael “Buzz” Rochelle, a brother of Bloomberg reporter Bill
Rochelle, is a lawyer for an agent for the lenders. The
partnership that owns the team is Texas Rangers Baseball
Partners.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  
 Tribune Creditors May Have More Time to Vote on Plan  
 The entire  Tribune Co.  examiner’s report may be made public
after an Aug. 3 hearing, the bankruptcy judge said in court
yesterday.  
 At yesterday’s hearing, the judge allowed parties who were
targets of the investigation to see the entire report. Creditors
on both sides of the question of fraudulent transfers in the
2007 leveraged buyout were urging the judge to make the entire
report public, including evidence the examiner used to draw his
conclusions.  
 The judge said he may extend the Aug. 6 deadline for
creditors to vote on the reorganization plan. He said he wasn’t
inclined to delay the plan confirmation hearing that’s scheduled
to begin Aug. 30.  
 The examiner’s complicated report found some likelihood a
court would conclude that debt issued in the final steps of the
leveraged buyout could be attacked successfully as a
constructively fraudulent transfer. He found less likelihood
that the first part of the transaction, in May 2007, could be
unraveled as a fraudulent transfer. For a summary of some of the
examiner’s conclusions, click here for the July 27 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  
 Tribune’s Chapter 11 plan would settle claims that the
$13.7 billion leveraged buyout led by  Sam Zell  contained
fraudulent transfers. The plan is opposed by holders of $3.6
billion in debt who announced their opposition even before the
settlement was formally disclosed. For details of the plan, the
proposed settlement, and the parties’ arguments, click here for
the April 13 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 Tribune is the second-largest newspaper publisher in the
U.S. It listed $13 billion in debt for borrowed money and assets
of $7.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
December 2008. It owns the Chicago Tribune, Los Angeles Times,
six other newspapers and 23 television stations.  
 The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Madoff Trustee Sues to Recover Business Investments  
 The trustee for Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
Inc. filed three lawsuits yesterday to recover $34.5 million and
ownership interests in businesses that Bernard Madoff’s family
members purchased with money that was allegedly stolen from the
Madoff firm’s customers.  
 Madoff “was quite generous with money he stole,”
according to the complaints. The papers say he gave $250 million
to his closest family members, including his wife, brother, two
sons and a niece. The money allegedly was used to “fund lavish
lifestyles” and provide $22 million for investment in
businesses.  
 Yesterday’s complaint seek to recover $34.5 million that
went to the businesses along with the majority ownership
interest in Primex Holdings LLC, the owner of an electronic
auction system for securities and commodities.  
 Bernard Madoff  is serving a 150-year prison sentence
following a guilty plea. The Madoff firm began liquidating in
December 2008 with the appointment of a trustee under the
Securities Investor Protection Act. Bernard Madoff himself went
into an involuntary Chapter 7 liquidation in April 2009. His
bankruptcy case was consolidated with the firm’s liquidation.  
 The first of the three new suits is Picard v. Madoff
Technologies LLC, 10-08483, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The other two are 10-08484 and
10-08485.  
 The Madoff liquidation case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
Inc., 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New
York (Manhattan). The criminal case is U.S. v. Madoff, 09-cr-
00213, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 Brown Publishing Insiders Allowed to Buy Most Assets  
 Dan’s Papers , the weekly newspaper with the largest
circulation on eastern Long Island, New York, and the  Montauk
Pioneer  will be sold to company insiders for $22.4 million along
with most of the other assets of  Brown Publishing Co.   
 At a hearing yesterday, the judge approved the sale to the
insider group, which includes Roy Brown, the president and chief
executive officer. She also approved the sale of three
publications in Ohio for $3.59 million cash to  Delphos Herald
Inc.   
 The bankruptcy judge refused to approve the sale of three
parcels of real property for $10,000 to the insider group,
saying there hadn’t been sufficient marketing. To read Bloomberg
coverage of the hearing, click here.  
 Closely held Brown, based in Cincinnati, listed assets of
$94 million against debt totaling $104.6 million after the
Chapter 11 filing at the end of April. First-lien lenders are
owed $70.2 million on a revolving credit and term loan. Second-
lien lenders are owed $24.3 million.  
 Brown owns 15 daily, 32 weekly, 11 business and 41 free
publications, and runs 51 websites. Seventy-eight of the
publications are in Ohio. The business publications are in seven
states.  
 The case is In re Brown Publishing Co., 10-73295, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of New York (Central Islip).  
 U.S. Concrete Plan Confirmed, Noteholders to Get Stock  
 U.S. Concrete Inc ., one of the 10 largest producers of
ready-mixed concrete in the U.S., has the signature of the
bankruptcy judge on a July 29 confirmation order confirming the
Chapter 11 plan.  
 The plan reduces debt by $285 million by swapping 8.325
percent subordinated notes for the new equity. Among noteholders
who voted, 99.97 percent favored the plan.  
 Although some shareholders said they were entitled to more
than warrants for 15 percent of the stock, 88 percent of the
shareholder class voted “yes.”  
 For details of the plan, click here for the April 30
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 The Chapter 11 petition filed in late April listed assets
of $389 million and debt of $399 million. Liabilities include
$40 million on a pre-bankruptcy secured credit facility where
JPMorgan Chase Bank NA serves as agent. There was another $17.9
million on undrawn letters of credit.  
 U.S. Concrete’s balance sheet on Dec. 31 listed assets of
$392.4 million and liabilities totaling $402.5 million. It has
125 fixed and 11 portable plants serving markets in California,
New Jersey, Texas and Michigan.  
 The case is In re U.S. Concrete Inc., 10-11407, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 AbitibiBowater Says Company ‘Hopelessly Insolvent’  
 AbitibiBowater Inc. , the largest newsprint maker in North
America, characterized the business as being “hopelessly
insolvent” in court papers filed July 28 opposing the
appointment of an official committee to represent shareholders.  
 Abitibi was scheduled to be in bankruptcy court today in
pursuit of approval for the disclosure statement explaining the
Chapter 11 plan. The hearing was adjourned to Aug. 2. The
hearing on the equity committee motion is on the calendar for
Aug. 4. For details of Abitibi’s revised plan and disclosure
statement, click here to read the July 29 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  
 Opposing a new official committee late in the case, Abitibi
said that the reorganized company will have a consolidated
enterprise value of about $3.68 billion, compared with claims
totaling $8.9 billion.  
 The shareholders, who said they own 27 percent of the
stock, contend Abitibi’s liquidation value is $9.1 billion. The
company said the equity holders provided no “credible
evidence” supporting the higher value.  
 Among the larger Abitibi subsidiaries, the recovery under
the plan ranges between 0.4 percent and 37.4 percent. For the
Bowater units with larger creditor bodies, the predicted
recovery ranges between 0.9 percent and 36.5 percent.  
 AbitibiBowater was formed in October 2007 through a merger
between Montreal-based Abitibi-Consolidated Inc. and Greenville,
South Carolina-based Bowater Inc. Abitibi is a producer of
newsprint, uncoated mechanical paper and lumber. Bowater also
makes newsprint, along with papers, bleached kraft pulp and
lumber.  
 The Montreal-based company began reorganizing with 24 pulp
and paper mills plus 30 wood-product plants. Revenue in 2008 was
$6.8 billion. In Chapter 11 petitions filed in April 2009, the
combined AbitibiBowater companies listed assets of $9.9 billion
and debt totaling $8.8 billion as of September 2008.  
 The case is AbitibiBowater Inc., 09-11296, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 U.S. Trustee Seeks Chapter 11 Trustee for Esmerian  
 Ralph Esmerian and the company that bears his name appear
to be headed toward being taken over by a Chapter 11 trustee.  
 Esmerian, former owner of liquidated antique jewelry
retailer Fred Leighton LLC, knew he would have difficulty
fending off the appointment of a Chapter 11 trustee.
Consequently, he filed a motion for the appointment of
restructuring officer who would be responsible for managing his
financial affairs in Chapter 11.  
 The bankruptcy judge denied the motion on July 23.  
 The U.S. Trustee in New York filed an emergency motion on
July 27 seeking appointment of a Chapter 11 trustee for Esmerian
and his namesake company. The motion will be on the Aug. 2
calendar in bankruptcy court.  
 The U.S. Trustee argues that Esmerian must be taken over by
a trustee on account of misdeeds in the Leighton case. The U.S.
Trustee points to findings by the bankruptcy judge in the prior
case where the court ruled that Esmerian “misappropriated the
debtors’ cash and inventory,” causing additional losses to the
secured lender. The judge also found that Esmerian sold company
property to pay personal debt and pledged the same jewelry to
more than one creditor simultaneously.  
 The U.S. Trustee argues that the prior proven examples of
“inequitable conduct” represent fraud or gross mismanagement
which are grounds for having a trustee in Chapter 11.  
 Creditors who filed the involuntary petition against
Esmerian in May said they were collectively owed $40 million.
Esmerian converted the cases to Chapter 11 this month.  
 Merrill Lynch Mortgage Capital Inc. precipitated the Fred
Leighton Chapter 11 in April 2008 by suing in state court to
hold a foreclosure auction. Eventually, Fred Leighton was
liquidated under a Chapter 11 plan proposed by Merrill. The
Leighton plan was confirmed in November.  
 The new cases are In re R. Esmerian Inc. and In re Ralph
Esmerian, 10-12719 and 10-12721, both in U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Centaur to Auction Colorado Casino on August 23  
 Casino and racetrack operator Centaur LLC will hold an
auction on Aug. 23 to learn if the offer from Luna Gaming
Central City LLC is the best bid for the Fortune Valley Hotel &
Casino 40 miles west of Denver. The so-called stalking horse bid
is $7.5 million in cash plus a $2.5 million note, less
adjustments.  
 Other bids are due Aug. 18, with a hearing for approval of
the sale on Aug. 23, according to procedures approved by the
bankruptcy judge on July 28.  
 The judge also extended Centaur’s exclusive right to
solicit acceptances of a Chapter 11 plan until Sept. 30.  
 Centaur filed a revised reorganization plan on July 22
where holders of $405 million in first-lien debt are slated to
recover 83.3 percent from a combination of mostly new stock and
debt. Holders of $207 million in second-lien debt are in line
for a 1.4 percent recovery, according to the disclosure
statement filed along with the plan.  
 Centaur doesn’t believe that its assets are worth enough to
pay first-lien debt in full. For details of the plan, click here
for the July 26 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 Centaur LLC and 12 affiliates filed Chapter 11 petitions in
March. Affiliates Centaur PA Land LP and Valley View Downs LP
filed for bankruptcy reorganization in October to keep alive a
project to develop a racetrack in Pennsylvania. All the
companies are subsidiaries of closely held Centaur Inc., which
isn’t in bankruptcy.  
 The March filings listed assets of $584 million and debt of
$681 million. The newer cases resulted from the failure to make
payments due in October on a $382.5 million first-lien debt and
a $192 million second-lien credit. The companies have horse
racing and gambling facilities in five markets in Indiana and
Colorado. They were developing a property in Pennsylvania to be
called  Valley View Downs & Casino  55 miles from Pittsburgh.  
 The companies own Hoosier Park, a casino and horse-racing
track in Anderson, Indiana, along with three off-track betting
parlors in Indiana.  
 In addition, they own Fortune Valley Hotel & Casino in
Central City, Colorado, which has a 118-room hotel to complement
the casino. The companies generated revenue of $277.5 million in
2009.  
 The newer case is Centaur LLC, 10-10799, and the first case
was In re Centaur PA Land LP, 09-13760, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 New Filing  
 Storm King Golf Club Files Chapter 11 in Poughkeepsie  
 Storm King Golf Club Inc. , a member-owned golf course in
Cornwall, New York, filed a Chapter 11 petition on July 28 in
Poughkeepsie, New York.  
 The 6,300-yard course claims to be one of the 100 oldest in
the U.S. The “general state of the economy” caused a drop in
membership, according to court papers.  
 There is a $1.62 million mortgage on the course, which the
club values at $12 million. Monthly revenue in the season is
about $14,000, a court filing says.  
 The case is In re Storm King Golf Club Inc., 10-37256, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Poughkeepsie).  
 Statistics  
 Home Foreclosures Increasing in 74% of Metro Areas  
 Home foreclosures in the first six month of 2010 increased
in 154 of 209 metropolitan areas with populations over 200,000,
RealtyTrac Inc. said in a report yesterday.  
 The foreclosure rate declined in nine of the 10 areas with
the highest rates, indicating that foreclosures are spreading
beyond the areas that were hard-hit first.  
 The states with the highest foreclosure rates are Florida,
California, Nevada and Arizona. To read Bloomberg coverage,
click here.  
 Daily Podcast  
 Texas Rangers, American Mortgage, Visteon, Station: Audio  
 Limitations on giving releases to non-bankrupt third
parties in the reorganizations of the  Texas Rangers  and  American
Mortgage Acceptance Co. , improved creditor treatment to smooth
confirmation of plans for  Visteon Corp . and  Station Casinos
Inc ., and record-low recoveries in Chapter 11 cases are
discussed in the new bankruptcy podcast on the Bloomberg
terminal and Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        