-- Meirelles Ending Rate Increases Too Soon to Slow Inflation, Futures Show
-- Boris Korby
-- 2010-07-30T14:28:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/meirelles-ending-rate-increases-too-soon-to-slow-inflation-futures-show.html

          
          
             Brazilian traders are betting
central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  will end increases in
borrowing costs too soon to keep inflation in check.  
 The difference between yields of the overnight interest
rate futures contract due in January 2012 and in 2014 widened to
a three-month high 47 basis points, or 0.47 percentage point,
today after policy makers said yesterday that economic growth
may have slowed to a sustainable level. The gap has grown 16
basis points since July 21, when the central bank raised the
rate a less than forecast 50 basis points to 10.75 percent.  
 Meirelles, 64, is preparing to stop raising lending rates
and will be forced to increase them later as inflation, at 4.8
percent, accelerates, the futures market shows. Traders are
wagering the central bank will lift the so-called Selic rate no
more than a total of 25 basis points in the next three meetings.  
 “We are getting to the end of the tightening process,”
said  Marcelo Saddi Castro , who oversees 18 billion reais ($10.2
billion) as chief investment officer at SulAmerica Investimentos
in Sao Paulo. “There’s considerable risk that inflation won’t
convert to the central bank’s target in the next year and a
half. Given the strong uncertainty, the yield curve tends to
steepen.”  
 Inflation  
 The central bank targets annual inflation at 4.5 percent.
Policy makers said in  minutes  of their July 20-21 meeting
released yesterday that “the economy may have settled into a
pace that is more in line with growth levels considered
sustainable in the long term.”  
 Brazil’s economy will continue to have a “weak” expansion
in the third quarter and probably contracted 0.1 percent in
July, Valor Economico reported today, citing Economic Policy
Secretary  Nelson Barbosa .  
 Economists forecast the annual inflation rate will quicken
to 5.35 percent by yearend before slowing to 4.8 percent by the
end of 2011, according to a central bank survey published this
week. Annual inflation declined to a four-month low of 4.8
percent in June, while retail sales and industrial production
missed forecast in May.  
 Yields on contracts due in January fell to a three-month
low of 10.77 percent today, suggesting traders are betting that
policy makers will either lift the Selic rate by a total of 25
basis points for the remaining three meetings this year or keep
it unchanged. Traders predicted in September that the rate would
rise to 12.5 percent by year end, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 Target Range  
 “The central bank works to reach the midpoint of the
inflation target and doesn’t comment on market analysis,” the
bank said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  
 The country’s monetary council set an inflation target of
4.5 percent for 2010, allowing a range of 2 percentage points
above or below that midpoint. Consumer prices, while falling,
have remained above 4.5 percent every month this year.  
 Meirelles has increased the Selic rate 200 basis points
this year, from a record low of 8.75 percent. Brazil’s economic
expansion will slow from the 9 percent pace in the first quarter
after the government withdrew tax breaks and cut spending, and
the central bank began rate rises in April, Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  said in an interview last week.  
 “The committee sees an improving inflation outlook,”
wrote  Mauricio Oreng  and  Ilan Goldfajn , economists at Itau
Unibanco Holding SA, Latin America’s biggest bank by market
value, in a research note to clients yesterday. “However, our
medium-term outlook points to further rate increases afterwards.
We believe the reappearance of inflation risks will prompt the
central bank to move back to tightening mode in January 2011.”  
 Overseas Investment  
 Credit Suisse AG of Zurich recommends that clients bet
yields on long-term contracts will fall since the central bank
will likely succeed in cooling inflation and attracting foreign
investors, said  Igor Arsenin , a strategist in New York, in an
interview yesterday.  
 “Brazilian rates are very high by international
standards,” said Arsenin. “For someone with a long-date
horizon, in all likelihood Brazil rates will normalize to global
averages, providing long term capital gains.”  
 Elsewhere in Brazil’s credit markets, the government
yesterday sold 1.73 billion reais of notes due in 2014, with
average yields of 12.22 percent. It also sold 583.2 million
reais of bonds maturing 2021, drawing an average yield of 12.18
percent.  
 Bond Sales  
 The Treasury said yesterday that it plans to sell as much
as 40 billion reais of domestic bonds in August. Brazil has 37.3
billion reais of bonds due to mature next month, according to a
posting on its website yesterday.  
 The extra  yield  investors demand to hold Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. securities narrowed 44 basis points this
month to 204, the biggest decline since May 2009, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. The real gained 2.5 percent to 1.761 per
dollar, reducing its decline this year to 0.9 percent.  
 The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell 21 basis points
this month to 116, the biggest decline in a year, according to
data compiled by CMA DataVision. Credit-default swaps pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  
 Economists forecast the Selic will jump to 11.75 by year
end, a central bank survey of 100 analysts published this week
shows. The economy will expand this year by 7.2 percent, the
fastest pace in more than two decades, the survey shows.  
 “Our general view is that growth is quite solid,”  Rogerio Oliveira , a strategist at Morgan Stanley in New York who expects
the yield on the 2014 contract to rise to 12.5 percent in coming
months, said in an telephone interview yesterday. “They will
have to restart tightening early next year. That helps the
perception that the curve should be steeper.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
 Boris Korby  in New York at 
 Bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Henrique Meirelles, president of the central bank of Brazil, speaks at a news conference in London. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
