-- El Paso's 678-Mile Pipeline Would Create `Path of Destruction,' Suit Says
-- Joel Rosenblatt
-- 2010-07-30T23:30:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/el-paso-s-ruby-pipeline-approval-challenged-in-court-by-environment-group.html

          
          
             Federal approval of  El Paso Corp. ’s
biggest expansion project, a 678 mile-long natural-gas pipeline
spanning four western U.S. states, should be reviewed by an
appeals court, the Center for Biological Diversity said today.  
 A lawsuit filed today in the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals in San Francisco seeks a review of the U.S. Bureau of
Land Management’s approval of the Ruby Pipeline, which will cut
across Wyoming, Utah, Nevada, Oregon and California, the center
said in a statement today.  
 “The Ruby Pipeline will cause severe damage to rivers and
streams, sensitive habitats for a host of fish and wildlife
species and some of the most pristine lands in western North
America,” Noah Greenwald, program director at the center, said
in the statement. “Instead of creating an entirely new path of
destruction, an existing pipeline route should have been
utilized.”  
 El Paso, the Houston-based owner of the largest network of
U.S. interstate gas pipelines, received conditional approval
from the Bureau of Land Management for the right-of-way needed
to build the $3 billion pipeline on July 12. The Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission approved the project in April.  
 The project will carry natural gas from a trading hub in
Opal, Wyoming, to interconnections near Malin, Oregon, linking
Rocky Mountain producers to U.S. West Coast markets. The company
said last month that the pipeline should be in service by March.  
 Fish & Wildlife Service  
 Today’s suit also names the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service as
a defendant for a failure in its review to consider potential
pipeline ruptures at stream crossings. The agency addressed the
danger by simply concluding that such ruptures “would not be
reasonably like to occur,” according to the center’s statement.  
 The Fish and Wildlife opinion failed to discuss previous
ruptures of El Paso pipelines in Bushland, Texas, and Carlsbad,
New Mexico, the statement said. Earlier this week, the center
said, it requested a rehearing at FERC.  
 El Paso spokesman  Richard Wheatley  declined to comment on
today’s lawsuit. While the company doesn’t know the status of
FERC’s evaluations of state historic preservation offices
reports on whether the pipeline meets cultural, historic and
archeological criteria, the agency’s final approval is
“imminent,” he said.  
 The lawsuit was filed directly at the appeals court due to
a provision in the 2005 Energy Policy Act that permits such
challenges to bypass district court, the center said. The
center, based in Tucson, Arizona, is an environmental group that
relies on science, law and the media to protect land, water and
climate, according to its  website .  
 The case is Center for Biological Diversity v. U.S. Bureau
of Land Management, 10-72356, 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
(San Francisco).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        