-- Emerging Bond Yields Drop to Record Low in Biggest Rally Since September
-- Jason Webb
-- 2010-07-30T16:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/emerging-bond-yields-drop-to-record-low-in-biggest-rally-since-september.html

          
          
             Emerging-market bonds are heading
for their  biggest monthly rally  since September, cutting yields
to a record low, as accelerating economic growth and Argentina’s
debt restructuring spur confidence.  
 Developing nation bonds rallied 4.3 percent in July,
reducing the average yield to 5.89 percent, the lowest since
Bloomberg began compiling data from JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+
Index in 1998.  
 Investors are turning to economies the  International
Monetary Fund  said this month will expand three times faster
than industrialized nations, with less than half the level of
government debt. Indonesia’s bonds jumped 6.1 percent as the
finance ministry predicted 6 percent second-half growth, up from
5.8 percent in the first half. Argentine debt rose 13.8 percent
as President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner ’s $12.9 billion
restructuring sparked a credit-rating upgrade.  
 “There has been an increased acknowledgement of the shift
in the relative vulnerabilities or riskiness between emerging
markets and developed markets” given the sovereign debt crisis
in western Europe, said  Marc Balston , an emerging-market debt
strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in London.  
 Developing economies are set to expand 6.9 percent this
year, compared with 2.3 percent growth for advanced economies,
the Washington-based IMF said in a July 7 report.  
 ‘Still Very Positive’  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  of stocks has gained 8
percent this month, on track for its biggest advance since
March, led by a 13 percent surge in  eastern European  gauges, the
region’s best returns since May 2009. The Czech koruna and
Polish zloty have gained more than 10 percent, the world’s best
performers against the dollar, on confidence the nations’
biggest market for exports is recovering after Germany’s Ifo
institute said last week its business climate index unexpectedly
jumped to the highest level since July 2007.  
 “The outlook is still very positive,” said  Phil Langham ,
a senior emerging markets money manager in London at RBC Global
Asset Management, which oversees about $200 billion worldwide.
“Emerging markets are pretty well positioned. Balance sheets
are still very strong. Valuations are pretty attractive.”  
 The cost of protecting emerging-market sovereign debt from
nonpayment fell worldwide, with the biggest declines for South
Korea credit-default swaps, which dropped by 24 percent,
Bloomberg data show. South Africa swaps declined by 21 percent
and contracts on Russia fell 16 percent.  
 Stress Tests  
 The  extra yield  investors demand from emerging-market debt
over U.S. 10-year Treasuries fell 53 basis points this month to
273, JPMorgan indexes show. The spread dropped to as low as 270
basis points on July 27, the narrowest gap since May 13.  
 Financial markets around the world rebounded in July as
governments and central banks moved to reassure investors that
Greece, with a budget deficit that ran at 13.6 percent of gross
domestic product in 2009, would not default, and as the results
of stress tests alleviated concerns about the strength of
European banks.  
 Further gains in emerging market bonds will be led by
higher-yielding credits such as Argentina and Venezuela, Balston
said.  
 Fitch Ratings raised Argentina to B, five levels below
investment grade, from default on July 12 after the country’s
bond swap in June. Argentina has restructured more than 90
percent of bonds on which it suspended payment in 2001, when it
defaulted on about $95 billion of debt. Argentina has run a
budget surplus before interest payments every month since
December 2008. The government expects the economy to grow by at
least 6 percent this year.  
 ‘Favorable View’  
 “We’ve got a favorable view on Argentina,” he said.
Balston is also positive on Ukraine’s outlook. The IMF’s board
approved a $15.2 billion loan for the country on July 29 after
Ukraine agreed to cut its budget deficit.  
 Indonesia’s budget deficit was equivalent to 1.6 percent of
GDP last year compared to a shortfall in the United States of
9.9 percent of GDP in the fiscal year ended Sept. 30.  
 Low bond yields have spurred record debt sales by emerging
markets, at $374 billion so far this year, up from the previous
record of $354 billion in the first seven months of 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “Spreads can tighten further but the relative
attractiveness of the yield is starting to decline,” he said.
Further gains in emerging market bond prices will be harder to
make, he said.  
 Change in Direction  
 The  relative strength index  of the JPMorgan EMBI+ Composite
index of emerging market bonds rose to 88 yesterday, above the
80 level which some traders believe can indicate a change of
direction. The relative strength index measures the velocity of
change of an index or security.  
 A sell signal was also triggered for emerging-market stocks
after developing-nation equity funds had the second-biggest
inflows for the year in the past week, according to  Michael Hartnett , BofA-Merrill Lynch Global Research’s chief global
equity strategist, citing data from EPFR Global. The last sell
signal on April 28 was followed by a 9.2 percent decline in the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index the following month.  
 Peaking inflation in the developing world is removing
uncertainty over interest rate policy and feeding stock markets,
said  Jonathan Garner , Chief Asian and Emerging Market Strategist
at Morgan Stanley & Co. in London. Emerging market stocks could
rise another 15 percent by the end of the year, he said in an
interview July 29.  
 The  People’s Bank of China  said on July 30 that it saw
little need for an imminent increase in interest rates for the
biggest emerging market. Chinese consumer prices rose by 2.9
percent in June from a year earlier.  Chinese stocks  have rallied
10 percent in July.  
 “We have started to outperform developed equities again
which is something that we thought would happen in the second
half of the year,” said Garner, who picked  Russia , South Korea
and Brazil as his favorite equity markets.  
 To contact the reporter on this story
 Jason Webb  in London at   jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        