-- Emerging-Market Stocks Fall for First Time in Nine Days, Paring July Gain
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-30T21:14:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/emerging-market-stocks-fall-for-first-time-in-nine-days-paring-july-gain.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks fell for the
first time in nine days on renewed concern that slowing global
economic growth will reduce earnings.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  declined 0.2 percent to
991.41 at 5 p.m. in New York. The 21-country gauge pared its
weekly gain to 1 percent and its monthly advance to 8 percent.
Benchmark equity gauges in Turkey and Indonesia slipped from
record highs today, while Russia’s  Micex Index  tumbled the most
in a month.  
 China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  slipped 0.4 percent,
paring its biggest monthly advance in a year to 10 percent.
India’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index declined 0.7
percent.  
 Growth in the U.S. slowed to a 2.4 percent annual rate in
the second quarter, reflecting a larger trade deficit and an
easing in consumer spending. The increase in gross domestic
product compared with a median forecast of 2.6 percent of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 Samsung Electronics Co. sank 2.1 percent in South Korea
after saying it will be a “challenge” to sustain current
profitability. Indonesia’s  Jakarta Composite Index  slipped 0.9
percent after reports showed Japan’s factory output unexpectedly
dropped in June while unemployment rose, heightening concern
regional demand may fall.  
 Bovespa Rallies  
 “This month’s rebound by stocks is running ahead of
economic fundamentals,” said Wei Wei, an analyst at West China
Securities Co. in Shanghai. “Disappointing earnings figures
from some companies may lead to weak expectations about the
second half of the year.”  
 Russia’s  Micex  stock index fell 1.5 percent, the most since
July 1, after the central bank kept its key rates unchanged.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries widened five basis points to 2.86
percentage points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+
Index.  
 Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index climbed for a 10th day, the
longest winning streak since August 2003.  Lojas Renner SA  led
gains after Brazil’s biggest publicly traded clothing retailer
posted a profit of 91 million reais ($51.8 million) in the
second quarter, up 90 percent from a year earlier.  
 Emerging-market equity and bond fund inflows rose in the
week ended July 28 as European bank stress tests and U.S.
earnings reports boosted investor optimism, EPFR Global said in
a statement. Asia ex-Japan emerging-market equity funds received
more than $1 billion, the strongest inflows in 14 weeks, EPFR
said. Global emerging-market equity and developing-nation bond
funds attracted more than $1 billion, the research firm said.  
 -- Chua Kong Ho  and  Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai, Michael
Patterson in London and  Tal Barak Harif  and Veronica Navarro
Espinosa in New York. With assistance by  Chen Shiyin  in
Singapore. Editors:  John Kohut ,  Stephen Kirkland .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        