-- Merkel Attends Memorial for 21 German Love Parade Victims Crushed to Death
-- Holger Elfes
-- 2010-07-31T15:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/merkel-attends-memorial-for-21-german-love-parade-victims-crushed-to-death.html

          
          
             Twenty-one people who were crushed
to death a week ago at a music festival in the western German
city of Duisburg were remembered today at a memorial service
attended by Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and other German leaders.  
 The service was this morning in the Salvator Church in
Duisburg. German President  Christian Wulff  and the premier of
the state of North Rhine-Westphalia,  Hannelore Kraft , were also
there.  
 The Love Parade, a rave festival that began in Berlin in
1989, moved to Duisburg this year. On July 24, hundreds of
thousands of music fans filing into the party venue at an
abandoned train station formed a bottleneck in a tunnel and on
an entrance ramp. Aside from those killed, hundreds of people
who couldn’t escape the crowd or who tried to flee were injured.  
 “People must reconsider their values,” Kraft said at the
church service.  
 The incident has prompted an investigation into how
authorities and organizers lost control of an event that had
been licensed for 250,000 attendees. Some estimates have put the
number of partygoers at more than a million.  
 The state’s interior minister, Ralf Jaeger, this week
accused the organizer, Lopavent, of failing to divert parts of
the crowd that caused the bottleneck. He also criticized the
city of Duisburg for its handling of the event’s permit. The
probe is being undertaken by investigators from nearby Cologne.  
 Duisburg Mayor Adolf Sauerland, facing public calls to
resign, has insisted that  criticism be withheld  until all facts
are known. He pledged the city will take responsibility for any
mistakes.  
 Lopavent, under event organizer Rainer Schaller, has
 promised  to support the police investigation. Schaller and Axa
SA, whose German unit insured the organizer of the event for 7.5
million euros, set up a 1 million-euro ($1.3 million) fund to
assist victims’ families.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
 Holger Elfes  in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        