-- Erste Profit Falls 17% on Loan Provisions in Eastern Europe, Shares Slump
-- Zoe Schneeweiss
-- 2010-07-30T16:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/erste-second-quarter-net-falls-17-on-eastern-europe-bad-loan-provisions.html

          
          
             Erste Group Bank AG , Austria’s
biggest publicly traded lender, said second-quarter profit fell
17 percent on rising bad-loan provisions in eastern Europe.  
 Erste declined the most in eight weeks in Vienna trading
after reporting net income of 216.7 million euros ($283
million), down from 260 million euros a year earlier. That
missed the average 221.2 million-euro  estimate  of nine analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Erste was hurt by a slowdown in eastern Europe, where the
bank generates most of its operating profit. The Vienna-based
lender, which received 1.2 billion euros from Austria’s
government during the global financial crisis, increased
provisions for bad loans by 6 percent to 553 million euros.  
 Provisions “increased quarter-on-quarter, despite the
previous claims of the management that the bank had reached the
peak in provisioning in the first quarter of this year,”  Peter Vidlicka , an analyst and Wood & Co. in Prague, wrote in a note.  
 Erste  fell  5.1 percent to 30.80 euros in Vienna, the
biggest drop since June 4. That made the stock the worst
performer on the 54-member  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index , which declined 0.8 percent.  
 The bank expects lending in central and eastern Europe to
remain muted this year, Chief Executive Officer  Andreas Treichl 
told reporters in Vienna. He doesn’t expect loan-loss provisions
to improve until 2011.  
 Net interest income, the difference between money paid on
deposits and earnings on loans, increased 6 percent to 1.36
billion euros, Erste said.  
 First-half earnings fell at five of Erste’s seven eastern
European units. Profit at the bank’s Romanian business, the
country’s biggest foreign-owned lender, dropped by more than
half to 36.3 million euros.  
 The bank posted a 30 million-euro charge for a banking tax
in Hungary and will take another 7 million-euro charge in the
second half, Treichl said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoe Schneeweiss  in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        