-- European Stocks Post Drop as U.S. Economic Growth Is Slower Than Forecast
-- Francesca Cinelli
-- 2010-07-30T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/european-stocks-post-drop-as-u-s-economic-growth-is-slower-than-forecast.html

          
          
             European stocks  declined this week
as slower-than-forecast U.S. economic growth overshadowed a
rally in banks after European Union stress tests eased concern
that lenders may need to raise more capital.  
 Nestle SA and Unilever led food companies lower as U.S.
rivals Kellogg Co. and Colgate-Palmolive Co. reported revenue
that missed estimates.  Gamesa Corporacion Tecnologica SA  tumbled
12 percent after reducing its forecast for wind turbine sales.
 UBS AG , Switzerland’s largest bank, surged the most in 15 months
after earnings beat analysts’ estimates.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  slipped 0.2 percent to 255.35
this past week, trimming the gain in July to 4.9 percent. The
gauge has fallen 6.2 percent from this year’s high on April 15
amid concern that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis may hamper the
economic revival.  
 “The GDP report raises concerns surrounding the
sustainability of the recovery,”  David Semmens , an economist
with Standard Chartered Bank in New York, wrote in an e-mail.
“The dire contribution from the U.S. consumer will weigh on
sentiment. Without a pick-up in hiring in the U.S. we expect GDP
growth to continue to fade through 2010.”  
 A Commerce Department report yesterday showed that growth
in the U.S. slowed to a 2.4 percent annual rate in the second
quarter, less than forecast, reflecting a larger trade deficit
and cooler consumer spending. Other U.S. data this week on
durable-goods orders and consumer confidence also trailed
economists’ estimates.  
 Benchmark Indexes  
 National benchmark indexes fell in 8 of the 18 western
European markets. Germany’s DAX lost 0.3 percent and the U.K.’s
 FTSE 100  retreated 1 percent. France’s CAC 40 advanced 1 percent
as Societe Generale SA and Credit Agricole SA rallied more than
12 percent.  
 Nestle, the world’s biggest food company, slid 4.1 percent,
the biggest drop in almost 3 months. Unilever, the second-
largest consumer-goods company, plunged 6.7 percent, the most
since March 2009.  
 Kellogg, the biggest U.S. maker of breakfast cereal, and
Colgate, the largest toothpaste maker, reported sales that
missed analysts’ projections.  
 Deutsche Bank AG strategist  Gareth Evans  downgraded the
European food and beverage industry to “neutral” from
“overweight,” citing the sector’s performance this year.  
 Parmalat Downgrade  
 Parmalat SpA , Italy’s biggest dairy food company, lost 7.2
percent after being downgraded to “underperform” at CA
Cheuvreux.  CSM NV , the world’s largest supplier of bakery
ingredients, dropped 7.5 percent.  
 Gamesa plummeted 12 percent after Spain’s largest wind
turbine maker cut its sales forecasts for this year and 2011 as
European clients reduced orders amid regulatory uncertainty and
lack of financing.  
 BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research downgraded the stock to
“underperform” from “neutral,” saying in a note that the
guidance “was even worse than we expected.”  
 Rival Vestas Wind Systems A/S, the world’s largest maker of
wind turbines, dropped 3.8 percent.  
 A measure of banking shares in the Stoxx 600 posted the
biggest gain among 19  industry groups , rallying 4.9 percent.  
 Greece’s Alpha Bank SA jumped 16 percent and Bank of
Ireland Plc soared 15 percent.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Britain’s biggest government-owned bank, advanced 10 percent.
UBS surged 15 percent, the most since April 2009.  
 Stress Tests  
 EU stress-test results showed after the close of the market
on July 23 that the majority of the region’s banks are
adequately capitalized. The trials, carried out by the Committee
of European Banking Supervisors, found that only Germany’s Hypo
Real Estate Holding AG, Agricultural Bank of Greece SA and five
Spanish savings banks didn’t have adequate reserves to maintain
a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6 percent in the event of a
recession and sovereign-debt crisis.  
 Banks received a further boost as the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision softened some of its proposed capital and
liquidity rules, agreeing to allow certain assets, including
minority stakes in other financial firms, to count as capital.  
 Deutsche Bank’s Evans raised his stance on the European
banking industry to “neutral” from “underweight,” saying
that “worries over leverage ratios, funding and liquidity
requirements are now much reduced.”  
 Bwin Interactive Entertainment AG  surged 22 percent and
PartyGaming Plc jumped 28 percent after saying they plan to
merge. Gibraltar-based PartyGaming plans to acquire Bwin in a
reverse takeover valued at about 1.13 billion pounds ($1.77
billion) to create the world’s biggest publicly traded online
gambling company.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        