-- European Stocks Decline Before U.S. GDP Data; Lafarge Slides
-- Sarah Jones
-- 2010-07-30T16:25:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/european-stock-index-futures-retreat-lafarge-renault-edf-may-be-active.html

          
          
             European stocks  fell for a third day
after a government report showed the U.S. grew less than
forecast in the second quarter, adding to concern that the
recovery of the world’s largest economy is slowing.  
 Lafarge SA led a selloff in construction-related companies
after the world’s biggest cement maker cut its outlook for
demand. HeidelbergCement AG retreated 3.4 percent as earnings
trailed estimates. Gamesa Corporacion Tecnologica SA slumped 12
percent after the Spanish maker of wind turbines reduced its
sales forecast. Alcatel-Lucent SA rallied 11 percent after
confirming its full-year margin targets.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  dropped 0.4 percent to 255.35 at
the 4:50 p.m. close in London after figures from the Commerce
Department showed U.S. gross domestic product increased at a 2.4
percent annual rate last quarter. The gauge recouped some of its
losses after a private survey of consumer confidence topped
estimates. The gauge has still climbed 4.9 percent in July, its
first monthly gain since March.  
 “It’s a pretty weak GDP number,” said  Manoj Ladwa , a
London-based senior trader at ETX Capital. “Everyone is looking
toward the U.S. for growth and it’s not forthcoming. It’s not a
great finish to the month.”  
 The U.S. growth number missed the 2.6 percent median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Today’s GDP
report follows data earlier in the week on U.S. durable-goods
orders and consumer confidence that also trailed estimates.  
 Consumer Sentiment  
 The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
 consumer sentiment , released today, was higher than had been
estimated. The index declined to 67.8 this month from 76 in
June, topping the 67 median forecast by 58 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  
 National benchmark indexes fell in 15 of the 18 western
European markets today. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100  slid 1.1 percent as
a GfK NOP report showed  consumer confidence  fell more than
forecast in July as the prospect of government spending cuts
undermined optimism on the economic recovery. France’s CAC 40
retreated 0.2 percent, while Germany’s DAX gained 0.2 percent.  
 Spain’s IBEX 35 slid 1.5 percent after Moody’s Investors
Service said it will probably downgrade the Iberian nation’s
credit rating.  
 Lafarge sank 3.9 percent to 41.80 euros in Paris, leading a
gauge of construction-related companies to the biggest drop
among 19  industry groups  in the Stoxx 600.  
 Lafarge Forecast  
 The cement maker said it expects volumes in its markets to
increase 3 percent at best, less than a previous forecast for an
increase of as much as 5 percent. In the worst case, they may
fall by 1 percent instead of being unchanged. The company also
reported a 15 percent drop in second-quarter profit to 329
million euros ($429 million).  
 HeidelbergCement, the world’s largest maker of aggregates
used to produce concrete and asphalt, declined 3.4 percent to
38.65 euros after second-quarter net income sank 64 percent to
120 million euros.  
 Gamesa  sank 12 percent to 6.70 euros, the biggest retreat
on the Stoxx 600. The company cut its sales goal for this year
and for 2011 as European clients reduced orders amid regulatory
uncertainty and lack of financing.  
 Rival Vestas Wind Systems A/S, the world’s largest maker of
wind turbines, dropped 3.1 percent to 278 kroner.  
 Alcatel, Bekaert  
 Alcatel-Lucent rallied 11 percent to 2.30 euros after
France’s biggest telecommunications equipment maker confirmed
full-year growth targets. The company reported an adjusted
operating profit of 28 million euros, reversing a 62 million-
euro loss in the year-earlier period.  
 Bekaert NV  jumped 11 percent to 166.90 euros after the
world’s largest maker of steel cord used in tires reported
first-half net income of 181 million euros, beating analysts’
estimates. The company also raised its three-year profitability
forecast on the growth of its operations in China.  
 Shire Plc slid 2.4 percent to 1,455 pence after Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. lowered its recommendation for the drugmaker to
“market perform” from “outperform.” The firm said a U.S.
regulatory review may highlight the cardiovascular risks from
attention deficit hyperactivity disorder drugs, such as those
made by Shire.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Lafarge SA chief executive officer Bruno Lafont. Photographer: Antoine Antoniol/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Jan Loeys, global head of market strategy at JPMorgan Chase & Co., talks about the global economy and the prospects of a renewed recession.
      He speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
