-- European Inflation Jumps to 20-Month High, Jobless Holds at 10%
-- Simone Meier
-- 2010-07-30T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/european-inflation-jumps-to-20-month-high-unemployment-rate-holds-at-10-.html

          
          
             European inflation accelerated to
the fastest pace in more than 1 1/2 years on rising energy costs
and  unemployment  held at the highest in almost 12 years.  
 Euro-area  consumer prices  rose 1.7 percent from a year
earlier in July after increasing 1.4 percent in June, the
European Union statistics office in Luxembourg said today.
That’s the fastest inflation since November 2008 and in line
with the median forecast of 33 economists in a  Bloomberg News
survey . The jobless rate remained at 10 percent for a fourth
month in June, the statistics office said in a separate report.
That’s the highest since August 1998.  
 European companies may have more scope to raise prices and
add workers over the coming months as the economy shows signs of
weathering a stronger euro and the Greece-led fiscal crisis. 
Economic confidence  rose to the highest in more than two years
in July and German  unemployment  declined, data this week showed.
 Volkswagen AG , Europe’s biggest carmaker, yesterday reported its
biggest quarterly profit in two years.  
 “The pace of job-shedding has probably come to a halt,”
said  Chiara Corsa , an economist at UniCredit Group in Milan.
Still, “we see the boost from both exports and  inventories 
gradually fading throughout the second half of the year, with
 domestic demand  unlikely to take up the baton.”  
 Some 15.8 million people within the 16-nation euro region
were unemployed in June, up 6,000 from May and 788,000 higher
than the year-earlier month. In the 27-member EU, unemployment
held at 9.6 percent in June. Spain had the highest jobless rate
in the EU at 20 percent.  
 Energy Prices  
 Today’s July inflation report is an initial estimate and
the statistics office will release a breakdown including the
 core rate  on Aug. 16. In June, core inflation, which excludes
volatile energy prices, accelerated to 0.9 percent from 0.8
percent.  
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc , Europe’s largest oil company,
yesterday posted a 15 percent increase in second-quarter profit
helped by higher oil prices. The company, based in The Hague,
has cut more than 5,000 jobs to reduce costs.  
 Crude-oil prices have increased 3 percent over the past
month just as the euro’s recent advance is adding pressure on
companies to cut prices by making exports less competitive
abroad. The single currency has gained 6.5 percent against the
dollar this month, paring annual losses to 9 percent.  
 Rising export orders probably helped the euro-area economy
gather strength in the second quarter after it expanded 0.2
percent in the previous three months. European  industrial orders 
rose for a fourth month in May and growth in the region’s
 services and manufacturing industries  accelerated in July.  
 Profit Outlook  
 Volkswagen  said yesterday that second-quarter net income
quadrupled on a 22 percent jump in revenue.  Siemens AG , Europe’s
largest engineering company, which is in the process of cutting
4,900 jobs at its industry-solutions division, on the same day
raised its full-year profit outlook.  
 With governments stepping up efforts to rein in budget
deficits and the global economy showing signs of losing
momentum, a recovery may be slow to feed through to  employment .  
 “We’re past the most difficult phase, but we can’t expect
any strong improvement on the labor market anytime soon,” said
 Christian Melzer , an economist at Dekabank in Frankfurt. “The
production levels aren’t sufficient yet for companies to add
workers to a large extent.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        