-- Texas Rangers Auction May Proceed With Nolan Ryan, Mark Cuban Bidding
-- Thomas Korosec
-- 2010-07-30T21:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/texas-rangers-auction-to-proceed-as-mark-cuban-prepares-bid-for-mlb-team.html

          
          
             An auction for the Texas Rangers may
proceed, a bankruptcy judge ruled, opening the way for Dallas
Mavericks owner  Mark Cuban  to bid against Hall of Fame pitcher
 Nolan Ryan  for control of the first-place baseball team.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge D.  Michael Lynn  in Fort Worth, Texas,
made the decision today after the team’s chief restructuring
officer,  William Snyder , backed an “enhanced” offer from a
buyer’s group led by Ryan and attorney  Chuck Greenberg . A
condition of the new offer was that the auction be called off,
Snyder said.  
 Lynn denied a request from the Rangers to cancel the
auction, siding with the team’s lenders. The lenders pushed for
the auction to proceed as planned on Aug. 4 even though it means
losing the certainty of the new Greenberg-Ryan deal.  
 “The money is the lenders’ money, and if they’re willing
to roll the dice, I’m going to let them do it,” Lynn said.  
 Cuban and Houston businessman  Jim Crane , who unsuccessfully
tried to buy the team before its bankruptcy, are planning to
bid, their lawyers said at today’s hearing. They may do so
separately or together, said  Clifton Jessup , a lawyer for Cuban.  
 “We are prepared to bid. We have money,” said Jessup, who
pushed for Lynn to let the auction proceed. Selling without an
auction “is not fair and is not reasonable and smacks of
collusion,” he told the judge.  
 Lenders Oppose  
 The Rangers filed for bankruptcy at the end of May with a
plan to sell to the Greenberg-Ryan group, a deal the team valued
at the time at $575 million. The lenders, led by  JP Morgan Chase
& Co. , opposed the deal and called for competitive bidding. The
Rangers later agreed to an auction.  
 “We’re prepared to have an action next week, and we’re
prepared to live with the consequences,” said  Andrew Leblanc , a
lawyer for some of the lenders.  
 Snyder didn’t detail the terms of the new Greenberg-Ryan
bid, which was confidential. He testified that he favored
scrapping the auction because the new deal provided certainty
for the team. He isn’t convinced there will be competitive
bidding at the auction, he said.  
 Tom Lauria , a lawyer for the Greenberg-Ryan group, declined
to comment about today’s ruling.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        