-- Mexican Drug Lord `Chapo' Guzman Loses Top Ally in Gun Battle With Army
-- Jonathan J. Levin
-- 2010-07-30T16:22:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/mexican-billionaire-drug-lord-loses-his-top-ally-in-gun-battle-with-army.html

          
          
             Mexican military personnel killed a
leader in billionaire Joaquin “Chapo” Guzman’s drug
trafficking cartel, signaling the biggest win for President
 Felipe Calderon  in his four-year-old war on organized crime.  
 The army shot dead Ignacio “Nacho” Coronel yesterday
during an operation in the western state of Jalisco, Defense
Ministry official  Edgar Luis Villegas  told reporters in Mexico
City. Coronel controlled the so-called Pacific Route for
Guzman’s Sinaloa Cartel, which sends cocaine to U.S. markets.  
 The killing will create a power vacuum in the cartel,
causing infighting that may weaken Guzman’s organization, the
most powerful of its kind in Mexico, according to Tony Payan, a
political scientist at the University of Texas in El Paso. That
may help Calderon, who is struggling to maintain public support
for his war as retaliation killings increase, he said.  
 “This is the biggest fish Calderon has landed so far,”
Payan, who also teaches at the Juarez Autonomous University,
said in a telephone interview. “We’re talking about the person
who is right next to the most powerful gangster in Mexico.”  
 Coronel shot at members of the armed forces during the
raid, killing one soldier and injuring another, the Defense
Ministry said. Military personnel killed Coronel when they
returned fire, according to an e-mailed statement.  
 Autopsy Planned  
 A military convoy transferred Coronel’s body to the Jalisco
Forensic Science Institute this morning for an autopsy, said
Andres Zuniga, a spokesman for the institute.  
 Guzman, the head of the drug cartel based in the western
state of Sinaloa, made Forbes magazine’s annual  billionaires
list  last year for the first time with a net worth of $1
billion.  
 Mexico’s peso rose 0.6 percent to 12.6422 per dollar at
10:55 a.m. New York time, from 12.7185 yesterday. The currency
has gained 3.6 percent this year against the U.S. dollar, the
second best performer among the 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, behind Japan’s yen.  
 The U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation was offering a $5
million reward for information leading to Coronel’s capture.  
 “With actions such as this, the federal government
reiterates its unfailing commitment to fight, energetically and
without exception, organized crime in all its manifestations,”
Villegas said late yesterday.  
 Mexico has reported almost 25,000 deaths related to
organized crime since Calderon took office in December 2006. The
government estimates violence shaves one percentage point from
gross domestic product each year.  
 Biggest Threat  
 The impact of violence is the biggest threat to the Mexican
economy, according to 57 percent of Mexican executives, up from
49 percent in March and 22 percent in December 2009, a  survey 
published this month by Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu showed.  
 The second-most cited concern was a U.S. economic slowdown,
according to the June 7-29 poll of 381 Mexican business leaders.  
 The U.S. government has delivered only about 9 percent of
the $1.6 billion in drug-war aid promised to Mexico through the
2008 Merida Initiative, the U.S. Government Accountability
Office said in a July 21 report to Congress.  
 The U.S. closed its consulate in the Mexican border city of
Juarez to review its security measures, the State Department
said yesterday on its website. The consulate will be closed all
day today and will stay closed until the review is completed.  
 In northern Torreon, Coahuila state, suspected gang members
stormed into a party July 18 and opened fire, killing 17 people.
The shooters were inmates at a prison in neighboring Durango
state, whose jailers let them out and supplied them with weapons
to commit the killings, the attorney general’s office said.  
 Authorities detained four prison workers yesterday in
connection to the case, the attorney general said today in an e-
mailed statement.  
 Politicians have also come under attack. Ex-senator and
former presidential candidate  Diego Fernandez de Cevallos  was
reported missing May 15 from his ranch in the central state of
Queretaro and has yet to be found.  
 Fernandez de Cevallos appeared blindfolded this week in
photographs posted on Twitter and reported in Mexican media. The
photos were accompanied by a message demanding $50 million in
ransom.  
 Those threats will remain after the killing of Coronel,
according to Payan. “This is winning a battle, not necessarily
winning a war,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan J. Levin  in Mexico City at 
 Jlevin20@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Mexico's president Felipe Calderon. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
