-- Mexico's Army Kills Drug Chief Allied With Guzman, Signaling Calderon Win
-- Jonathan Levin
-- 2010-07-30T03:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/mexico-s-army-kills-drug-chief-allied-with-guzman-signaling-calderon-win.html

          
          
             Mexican military personnel killed a
leader in billionaire Joaquin “Chapo” Guzman’s drug
trafficking cartel, signaling the biggest win for President
 Felipe Calderon  in his four-year-old war on organized crime.  
 The army shot dead Ignacio “Nacho” Coronel today during
an operation in the western state of Jalisco, Defense Ministry
official Edgar Luis Villegas told reporters in Mexico City.
Coronel controlled the so-called Pacific Route for Guzman’s
Sinaloa Cartel, which sends cocaine to U.S. markets.  
 The killing will create a power vacuum in the cartel,
causing infighting that may weaken Guzman’s organization, the
most powerful of its kind in Mexico, according to Tony Payan, a
political scientist at the University of Texas in El Paso. That
may help Calderon, who is struggling to maintain public support
for his war as retaliation killings increase, he said.  
 “We’re talking about the person who is right next to the
most powerful gangster in Mexico,” Payan, who also teaches at
the Juarez Autonomous University, said in a telephone interview.
“This is the biggest fish Calderon has captured so far.”  
 Coronel shot at members of the armed forces during the raid,
killing one soldier and killing another, the Defense Ministry
said. Military personnel killed Coronel when they returned fire,
according to an e-mailed statement.  
 Guzman, the head of the drug cartel based in the western
state of Sinaloa, made Forbes magazine’s annual  billionaires
list  last year for the first time with a net worth of $1 billion.  
 $5 Million Reward  
 The U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation was offering a $5
million reward for information leading to Coronel’s capture.  
 “With actions such as this, the federal government
reiterates its unfailing commitment to fight, energetically and
without exception, organized crime in all its manifestations,”
the ministry official said late today.  
 Mexico has reported almost 25,000 deaths related to
organized crime since Calderon took office in December 2006. The
government estimates violence shaves one percentage point from
gross domestic product each year.  
 The U.S. closed its consulate office in Ciudad Juarez, the
Mexican border city, to review its security measures. The
consulate will be closed all day tomorrow and will stay closed
until the review is completed, the State Department said today
on its website.  
 The impact of violence is the biggest threat to the Mexican
economy, according to 57 percent of Mexican executives, up from
49 percent in March and 22 percent in December 2009, a  survey 
published this month by Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu showed.  
 Politicians Targeted  
 The second-most cited concern was a U.S. economic slowdown,
according to the June 7-29 poll of 381 Mexican business leaders.  
 The U.S. government has delivered only about 9 percent of
the $1.6 billion in drug-war aid promised to Mexico through the
2008 Merida Initiative, the U.S. Government Accountability
Office said in a July 21 report to Congress.  
 In northern Torreon, Coahuila state, suspected gang members
stormed into a party and opened fire, killing 17 people.  
 Politicians have also come under attack. Ex-senator and
former presidential candidate  Diego Fernandez de Cevallos  was
reported missing May 15 from his ranch in the central state of
Queretaro and has yet to be found.  
 Fernandez de Cevallos appeared blindfolded this week in
photographs posted on Twitter and reported in Mexican media. The
photos were accompanied by a message demanding $50 million in
ransom.  
 Those threats will remain after the killing of Coronel,
according to Payan.  
 “This is winning a battle, not necessarily winning a
war,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan J. Levin  in Mexico City at 
 Jlevin20@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        