-- Fabregas `Torn' Between Arsenal, Barcelona, Independent Says: Roundup
-- Bob Bensch
-- 2010-07-30T10:22:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/fabregas-torn-between-arsenal-barcelona-independent-says-roundup.html

          
          
             The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable links to the Web:  
 Torn Fabregas  
 Arsenal captain  Cesc Fabregas  said he’s “torn” between
staying at the Premier League club or moving to Barcelona, the
 Independent  said.  
 Fabregas has been linked with a move back to the Spanish
club, from which he joined Arsenal as a 16-year-old. The Gunners
have already rejected a 29 million-pound ($45 million) bid for
the 23-year-old midfielder, the newspaper said.  
 Fabregas, a Catalan who’s supported Barcelona his whole
life, recently spoke with Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger .  
 “He doesn’t want me to leave,” he was quoted as saying by
the Independent. “And in my last conversation with him in
London, it was one of the most difficult moments I have
experienced. I ended up very upset.”  
 Priority Signings  
 New Fulham manager  Mark Hughes  will make Manchester City’s
 Stephen Ireland  and  Craig Bellamy  his first transfer targets,
the  Daily Mirror  said.  
 Hughes, hired at Craven Cottage yesterday, coached both
players while in charge at City. He could also move for City
striker  Roque Santa Cruz , the Mirror said.  
 Hughes must decide whether to go through with a transfer
for Aston Villa midfielder  Steve Sidwell , who agreed to terms on
a 2 million-pound ($3.1 million) deal three weeks ago, the
Mirror said.  
 Keeper Swap  
 Hughes could also opt for West Ham and England goalkeeper
 Robert Green  if  Mark Schwarzer  leaves for Arsenal, the  Daily
Mail  said.  
 Fulham has already turned down 2 million pounds from
Arsenal for the 37-year-old Schwarzer, valuing him at double
that. A compromise is likely to be reached and Hughes will have
to decide whether to use the money on Green, who is valued at 6
million pounds.  
 Donovan Talks  
 Everton has held talks with Major League Soccer and the Los
Angeles Galaxy over U.S. midfielder  Landon Donovan , the  Daily
Telegraph  said.  
 Donovan, 28, scored two goals in 13 appearances during a
three-month loan spell at Everton last season. If a permanent
deal is reached, Everton would have to sell players to fund a
move for the 10 million pound-rated American, the Telegraph
said.  
 Back to England  
 Brazilian striker  Robinho  is preparing to return to England
after talks between Manchester City and Santos broke down, the
Guardian said.  
 City sent Robinho, who was signed from Real Madrid for 32.5
million pounds, to Santos on loan last season. That agreement
expires in five days and the 26-year-old may have no option
other than to return to the Premier League club, the Guardian
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        