-- Facebook Said to Put Off IPO Until 2012 to Buy Time for Growth
-- Douglas MacMillan
-- 2010-07-30T18:38:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/facebook-said-to-put-off-share-sale-until-2012-to-buy-more-time-for-growth.html

          
          
             Facebook Inc. will probably put off
its initial public offering until 2012, giving Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  more time to gain users and boost sales,
three people familiar with the matter said.  
 Facebook would benefit from another year of growth absent
the added scrutiny that comes with a public listing, instead of
holding an IPO in 2011 as investors speculated, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because Facebook doesn’t discuss
share-sale plans. Still, Zuckerberg, who holds board control,
could push for a stock sale at any time, they said.  
 Waiting lets Zuckerberg, 26, hone the skills needed to
steer a company that issues quarterly results while facing
criticism on such matters as user privacy. Facebook, valued at
$24.9 billion, would use the time to propel its user base beyond
the 500 million mark reached this month and add to sales that
two of the people said may double to at least $1.4 billion in
2010 from $700 million to $800 million last year.  
 “The burden of being public has never been greater,” said
 Kevin Landis , who manages about $260 million at  Firsthand Funds 
in San Jose, California, and has invested in the technology
industry for 16 years. “Zuckerberg doesn’t have to put his name
at the bottom of four 10-Q statements every year and attest that
everything in there is true or else he’s responsible. The minute
it’s public, he does.” Landis doesn’t have direct knowledge of
Facebook’s IPO plans.  
 Jonathan Thaw , a spokesman for Facebook, owner of the
world’s largest social network, declined to comment. Zuckerberg,
in a television interview this month, said Facebook will go
public “when it makes sense,” without elaborating.  
 Pressure Allayed  
 Some investors had speculated a share sale might happen in
2011 after venture capitalist Jim Breyer, a member of Facebook’s
board, said in January that the Palo Alto, California-based
company isn’t focused on a 2010 sale. Instead, Facebook’s
 management  is trying to woo more users and developers, Breyer
said at the time.  
 Startups are often urged to sell shares by employees and
investors eager for a return on their equity. In Facebook’s
case, some of that pressure has been allayed by private sales,
often facilitated by such exchanges as SecondMarket Inc. and
SharesPost Inc., which help find buyers for startup shares.  
 SharesPost values Facebook at $24.9 billion, more than
double its value in March.  
 Zuckerberg’s Challenges  
 Zuckerberg faces a range of challenges, including
management of a rapidly growing workforce and rising competition
from companies including  Twitter Inc. , the blogging service that
has amassed more than 190 million monthly visitors.  
 Facebook is also contending with heightened regulatory scrutiny
over how it handles users’ personal data. And it’s up against a
lawsuit that contests company ownership. A New York man, Paul Ceglia,
claimed in state court in June that he owns an 84 percent stake,
based on an April 2003 contract. Facebook has said the lawsuit is
“frivolous, if not outright fraudulent.”  
 “If they have other sources of capital, the company would
probably be better off deferring an IPO until Zuckerberg had
more experience under his belt,” said  Ray Valdes , a San Jose,
California-based analyst at Gartner Inc.  
 Facebook’s timetable may disappoint technology investors
who speculated an IPO would encourage other startups to wade
into the public markets. Venture-backed IPOs dwindled in the
past 2 1/2 years as the financial crisis wiped out investment
banks such as Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and Bear Stearns
Cos. and forced many hedge funds to close.  
 IPO Dearth  
 This year, 40 companies put off or have withdrawn IPOs in
the U.S., according to Bloomberg data.  
 “The companies that went public in the second quarter had to
have readjusted price expectations on average,” said Hans Swildens,
founder of  Industry Ventures LLC , a San Francisco-based investing
firm that owns a Facebook stake. “The capital markets are swinging
week by week. It’s a very hard time.”  
 Facebook, founded in 2004, now has about 1,400 employees.
Investors include Accel Partners,  Microsoft Corp.  and Elevation
Partners LP, the private-equity firm among whose founders are
Bono and  Roger McNamee . Besides Zuckerberg and Breyer,  board
members  are Internet entrepreneur  Marc Andreessen , money manager
 Peter Thiel  of  Founders Fund  and  Donald Graham , CEO of The
Washington Post Co.  
 Zuckerberg holds board control, according to “ The Facebook
Effect ,” a chronicle of the social network’s origins by  David Kirkpatrick .  
 Silicon Valley ‘Watershed’  
 Elevation Partners has bought Facebook shares in private
transactions that total $210 million, a person familiar with the
matter said in June. Digital Sky Technologies, a Russian investor, has
accumulated a stake of almost 10 percent, people familiar with the
matter said in May.  
 Mutual fund managers and individual investors want their own
chance to invest in Facebook’s growth, said Ted Hollifield, a partner
at law firm  Dorsey & Whitney LLP  in Palo Alto.  
 “There’s definitely the market demand and appetite for a
very successful IPO,” said Hollifield, who works with venture
capital firms and startups. “Facebook’s IPO is going to be a
huge watershed for the whole Valley.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ari Levy  in San Francisco at 
 alevy3@bloomberg.net ;
 Douglas MacMillan  in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Facebook Inc CEO Mark Zuckerberg  
                       
                         
                           Antoine Antoniol/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Mark Zuckerberg, chief executive officer of Facebook Inc., could push for a stock sale at any time. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Mark Zuckerberg, chief executive officer of Facebook Inc., could push for a stock sale at any time. Photographer: Antoine Antoniol/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Douglas MacMillan talks about the likelihood Facebook Inc. will put of its initial public offering until 2012 and the business strategy of the owner of the world's largest social network.
     MacMillan speaks with Deidre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Facebook homepage. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
