-- Algeria Millennium Bomb Plotter Broke Conditions of His Release, U.S. Says
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-07-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/failed-millennium-bomb-plotter-violated-prison-release-terms-u-s-says.html

          
          
             An Algerian man convicted in a
foiled millennium plot to bomb Los Angeles International Airport
in late 1999 is scheduled to appear in court today on charges he
broke the conditions of his supervised release.  
 U.S. prosecutors plan to use “foreign intelligence”
evidence against him, according to court records.  
 Abdelghani Meskini , who pleaded guilty to planning an
attack to take place during New Year’s celebrations in 1999,
will appear before a federal judge in New York, according to the
court docket. Meskini, who cooperated with prosecutors, was
sentenced in January 2004 to six years in prison, including time
he’d already served, and ordered to pay $59,000 in restitution.  
 Now known as Eduardo Rocha, Meskini was arrested in
Georgia on March 24, accused of nine violations of his federal
supervised release, court records show. Prosecutors didn’t
specify what the alleged violations were.  
 Evidence proving that Meskini violated his release terms
was collected in a “physical search” using the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Act, according to a court filing
yesterday by prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S.
Attorney  Preet Bharara . The government didn’t specify what the
information was.  
 The so-called millennium plot was thwarted when  Ahmed Ressam , another Algerian, was arrested on Dec. 14, 1999, while
transporting explosives across the U.S.-Canadian border near
Seattle.  
 $3,000 in Cash  
 Prosecutors said fellow Algerian  Mokhtar Haouari  provided
Ressam with $3,000 in cash and a fake Canadian driver’s license.
Haouari was also accused of arranging for Meskini to travel to
Seattle to help Ressam after he crossed the border.  
 Meskini cooperated with the government and testified
against Haouari at a 2001 federal trial in Manhattan. Ressam
testified they intended to bomb the Los Angeles airport with
explosives in suitcases.  
 Meskini was sentenced to six years in prison. Haouari was
convicted and sentenced to 24 years in prison. Ressam was
sentenced to 22 years. In February, a federal appeals court
ruled that Ressam needed to be re-sentenced because the original
term was too short.  
 A transcript of an April 23 hearing after Meskini’s arrest
in Georgia quotes his former lawyer,  Isabelle Kirshner , saying
that he applied and was denied entry to the federal witness
protection program.  
 Witness Protection  
 Cooperating federal witnesses whose lives are deemed to be
in danger because of their assistance are often moved to
another area and given new identities by the U.S.  
 “Mr. Meskini is here on several alleged violations of
supervised release,” U.S. District Judge  John Keenan  said at
the April hearing, according to the transcript. “His big
problem is, as I understand it, that is if he’s deported, his
country of origin is Algeria. Physically, he might be in
jeopardy in Algeria.”  
 On July 1, Keenan assigned lawyer Mark DeMarco to represent
Meskini, according to a court transcript. DeMarco couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment after regular business hours.  
 The case is U.S. v. Abdelghani Meskini, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        