-- Fed Should Resume Treasury Purchases If Deflation Risk Grows, Bullard Say
-- Scott Lanman
-- 2010-07-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/fed-should-resume-treasury-purchases-if-deflation-risk-grows-bullard-says.html

          
          
             Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said the central bank should resume
purchases of Treasury securities if the economy slows and prices
fall rather than maintain a pledge to keep rates near zero.  
 “The U.S. is closer to a Japanese-style outcome today than
at any time in recent history,” Bullard said, warning in a
research paper released yesterday about the possibility of
deflation. “A better policy response to a negative shock is to
expand the quantitative easing program through the purchase of
Treasury securities.”  
 Bullard’s stance increases the odds the Fed will make such
a move and reject other options should the economy weaken
further, former Fed Governor  Lyle Gramley  said. Other
alternatives to aid growth include using communication to plot
the path of interest rates or cutting payments to banks on
reserve deposits, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week.  
 “It’s going to be very important in shifting the mix of
thinking at the Fed,” said Gramley, now senior economic adviser
with Potomac Research Group in Washington. “Having  Jim Bullard 
on the side of doing that could, I think, be the straw that
broke the camel’s back.”  
 The Fed signaled last month that Europe’s debt crisis may
harm U.S. growth and repeated a pledge to keep interest rates
near zero “for an extended period.” The central bank cut the
benchmark interest rate almost to zero in December 2008 and
turned to purchases of Treasury, housing-agency and mortgage-
backed securities as the main tool for monetary policy.  
 ‘All Go Away’  
 “The most likely possibility from where we sit today is
that the recovery will continue through the fall, inflation will
start to move up and this issue will all go away,” Bullard said
to reporters on a conference call yesterday. “Suppose we get
another negative shock, another surprise. We have to be prepared
in that event to have a plan in place to do something.”  
 Bullard, a voting member of the Federal Open Market
Committee this year, said using Fed communications to pledge
rates will stay near zero may prove to be detrimental. While
some people say rates near zero will accelerate inflation, such
an interest rate policy may also cause a broad-based decline in
prices, he said.  
 Bullard, who describes himself as “the north pole of
inflation hawks,” has taken a broader stand on policy since he
assumed leadership at the St. Louis Fed in April 2008 amid the
deepest U.S. recession since the 1930s.  
 Raise Rates  
 In November, Bullard said past experience suggests the Fed
may not start to raise interest rates until 2012. That same
month, he said the Fed should retain the flexibility to respond
to any weakening in the economy by extending beyond March its
authority to buy mortgage-backed securities and agency bonds.  
 “They have to be talking about all these options,” said
former Atlanta Fed research director  Robert Eisenbeis , now chief
monetary economist at Cumberland Advisors Inc. At the same time,
“I don’t see much happening” in the statement after the next
FOMC meeting Aug. 10, Eisenbeis said.  
 Bullard said he wrote the paper after private-sector
economists reacted to the European debt crisis by assuming the
Fed would extend its extended-period rate pledge further,
raising a risk of deflation. An additional shock, such as a
terrorist attack or weakness in Asia, would require a different
policy, he said.  
 “The academics will tell you what you have to do is sort
of dump interest-rate targeting and switch to something else,”
he said. “In the policy debate, that is not really happening.
So we need a sharper departure from interest-rate targeting if
we are going to get out of this problem.”  
 Voiced Concerns  
 Bullard, who has voiced concerns with the extended-period
language since early March, said during the call he wanted to
spark debate and his preference has been not to dissent.  
 Fed officials held mixed views on deflation last month,
with “a few participants” citing “some risk of deflation,”
according to the minutes of the June meeting. “Other
participants, however, thought that inflation was unlikely to
fall appreciably.”  
 Charles Plosser , president of the Philadelphia Fed, said in
an interview this week that “I don’t think deflation, or
sustained deflation, is a real problem at this point. It is hard
to imagine how you can get that when you have got a trillion
dollars in excess reserves sitting in the banking system or as
long as expectations of inflation are well anchored.”  
 Slight Increase  
 Separately yesterday, Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher 
told reporters that “we’re still seeing slightly increasing
prices.” Fisher, in San Antonio, said he doesn’t “see any
deflationary net pressure.”  
 Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren , in an interview with
the New York Times published yesterday, said that while he
wasn’t forecasting deflation, “it’s a risk that I do take
seriously, and we should continue to monitor what’s happening
with prices.” Deflation is a “greater risk” than inflation,
 Peter Diamond , nominated to be a Fed governor, said this month
in a written response to questions from Senator  Richard Shelby .  
 Bullard’s stance aims to bridge the gap between two camps
at the Fed, said  Vincent Reinhart , a former Fed monetary-affairs
director. Bernanke is in one group believing that the path of
short-term rates is important, while Kansas City Fed President
 Thomas Hoenig  is among officials uncomfortable with the
“extended period pledge,” Reinhart said.  
 ‘More in Play’  
 “It raises the sense that the balance sheet is more in
play,” said Reinhart, a resident scholar at the American
Enterprise Institute in Washington.  
 Bullard said deflation could hurt the U.S. financial system
because falling prices undermine the value of financial
contracts such as mortgages. His comments echoed Bernanke’s
research on the Great Depression indicating that declines in
borrowers’ net worth can worsen a downturn.  
 “The conventional wisdom is that Japan has suffered
through a ‘lost decade’ partially attributable to the fact that
the economy has been stuck in the deflationary, low nominal
 interest-rate -steady state,” he said. “To the extent that is
true, the U.S. and Europe can hardly afford to join Japan in the
quagmire.”  
 The St. Louis Fed president, who said he visited Japan a
month and a half ago, said policy makers there had been
unsuccessful with efforts including “aggressive fiscal
expansion.”  
 “They have tried many, many things to change their
situation and they haven’t worked very well,” he said.  
 ‘Holding Up’  
 Bullard said during the call that U.S. inflation
expectations are “holding up,” while having “fallen quite a
bit.”  
 The Fed in March ended its emergency purchases of $1.425
trillion of housing debt after completing purchases of $300
billion in Treasury securities in October.  
 Bullard said the program was generally regarded as
successful in the U.S., along with a similar policy in the U.K.  
 “The global economy continues to recover from the very
sharp recession of 2008 and 2009,” Bullard said. “During the
recovery, the U.S. economy is susceptible to negative shocks
which may dampen inflation expectations.”  
 Employment fell in June for the first time this year
because of a drop in the number of U.S. census workers, while
private payrolls rose 83,000, the Labor Department said. Reports
over the past month showed a decline in home sales, a slump in
consumer confidence, weaker manufacturing and less growth in the
first quarter.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis president James Bullard. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

 
     
         Audio Download:  7/28 Pimco's Gross Interview About Treasuries, Strategy 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
