-- Flesh-Eating Fish Pedicures May Be Banned Under New York Bill as Inhumane
-- Arielle Fridson
-- 2010-07-30T14:41:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/flesh-eating-fish-pedicures-may-be-banned-in-new-york-bill-as-unsanitary.html

          
          
             Using live fish to eat away dead
skin in pedicures would be banned in New York State for health
and humane reasons under a proposed bill.  
 The procedure, which developed in Turkey as a way to treat
skin ailments including psoriasis, involves feet being dunked in
a tank of water filled with one of two types of small, dark
fish. The hungry creatures nibble off the dead skin while
leaving healthy epidermis alone.  
 Fish pedicures are illegal in at least 14 states, according
to state Senator Jeff Klein of the Bronx and Westchester, who
 proposed  the bill. The bans cite the concern that health
conditions led by fungal infections may be transmitted by
unsanitized fish in dirty water. Animal-rights groups are
pushing for outlawing the procedure because it is inhumane to
the fish.  
 “I do not recommend it to anyone who has any diabetes or
any immuno-compromised condition such as AIDS or cancer, because
of the risk of infection,” said Robin Ross, president of the
New York State Podiatric Medical Association, in a telephone
interview yesterday. “The fish are defecating and urinating in
that water and you’re sticking your feet in it.”  
 New York’s Department of State  isn’t aware that any of
26,345 licensed nail salons within the state offer the practice,
said spokesman Joel Barkin in an e-mail. The practice is being
done in the backrooms of New York City, Klein said when he first
proposed the ban in October.  
 The bill has yet to be voted on, according to Gwen Rocco, a
spokeswoman for the senator.  
 Chin Chin  
 While Garra rufa fish, also called doctor fish, were first
used in the procedure, another type called chin chin have grown
in popularity because they are less expensive.  
 John Ho, who claimed to be the first to bring the pedicures
to the U.S., said there has never been a health incident with
any of his customers. He runs  three salons  that offer the
service in the Virginia cities of Alexandria, Woodbridge, and
Crystal City.  
 “States ban fish pedicures because they don’t have much
information,” Ho said in a telephone interview. His salons
offer 15 minutes of immersion in the fish tank, in addition to a
traditional pedicure, for $45. He said his lawyers are drawing
up documents to franchise the business by the end of the year.  
 Pedicure and manicure customers, who are 96 percent female,
spent $6.16 billion on nail services in 2007, according to Nails
Magazine research.  
 People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals is pushing for
the end of the procedure because it is cruel, said Kristin
Dejournet, a Memphis-based worker for the Norfolk, Virginia-
based animal-rights group. The animals can feel fear and pain,
she said.  
 “Fish are still very misunderstood,” said Dejournet.
“Changing the water would need to be done quickly in the
interest of the customers, but in the interest of the fish,
there’s just no way to do it without the fish thinking, Oh my
God, what’s happening? Is my pond drying up?” she said. “It’s
not natural.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arielle Fridson  in New York at 
 afridson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A customer receives a fish pedicure with her feet submerged in a tank filled with Garra Rufa fish removing any dead skin. Photographer: Peter Macdiarmid/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
