-- Formosa Petrochemicals Plant Fire May Have Polluted Fishery, Officials Say
-- Yu-huay Sun
-- 2010-07-30T06:56:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/formosa-petrochemicals-plant-fire-may-have-polluted-fishery-officials-say.html

          
          
             A fire at  Formosa Petrochemical
Corp. ’s residual processing unit this month may have polluted
fisheries near the plant, local government officials said.  
 Dead clams and fish have been found in an area of about
1,000 hectares (2,471 acres) since the July 25 accident, said
Lai Chien-sheng, a section chief at the  agriculture department 
of Yunlin county, where the plant is located. “We’re probing
the cause of the deaths,” he said by phone today.  
 An oil leak triggered a blaze at Formosa Petrochemical’s No.
2 residual desulfurization unit at 7:58 p.m. on July 25, and the
fire was put out almost two days later. Formosa Petrochemical,
Taiwan’s only publicly traded oil refiner, will “take full
responsibility” for residents’ financial losses caused by the
accident, the company said in a July 26  statement .  
 “Emissions from the fire may be harmful but they weren’t
toxic,”  Lin Keh-yen , Formosa Petrochemical spokesman, said by
phone from Taipei yesterday. “We don’t expect large-scale
agricultural or fishery losses.”  
 Formosa Petrochemical had shut its 540,000 barrel-a-day
Mailiao refinery for safety reasons after the fire. The company
began the restart process yesterday, Lin said. Two-thirds of the
refining capacity may be fully operationally in one to two weeks,
he said.  
 “A tiny amount of toxic matter was detected by our
monitoring system, though below the levels allowed by government
standards,” Hsieh Yein-rui, director general of air quality
protection at the  Environmental Protection Administration , said
in a public hearing in Taipei yesterday, without giving details.
The fire wouldn’t produce toxic material as the fuel’s sulfur
content was low, the company said in the statement on its
website on July 26.  
 Dust From Fire  
 Dust caused by the fire polluted fisheries near the plant,
Yunlin County Magistrate Su Chih-fen said in an interview in
Taipei yesterday.  
 The blaze was the second accident at the refiner’s Mailiao
complex this month. Formosa halted its No. 1 ethylene plant,
which has an annual capacity of 700,000 metric tons, on July 7
after a fire.  
 “If economic or technological development severely damages
the environment, the environment should take priority,”
President  Ma Ying-jeou  said in a meeting with business leaders
today, as broadcast on Formosa TV, a Taiwan television channel.  
 The refinery has three crude distillation units, each able
to process 180,000 barrels a day by heating oil and separating
it into products. Residual desulfurization units remove sulfur.  
 Shares Fall  
 The  shares  fell 1.5 percent to close at NT$74.40 in Taipei
trading at 1:30 p.m. local time. The benchmark Taiex index of
equities declined 0.5 percent.  
 More than 1,000 ducks were found dead in Mailiao July 27,
Huang An-chin, an official at the Yunlin county’s  Animal Disease
Control Center , said by phone July 28. The center has taken
samples for a test to determine the cause of the deaths, he said.  
 “Direct losses” from the fire are estimated at NT$500
million ($16 million), Formosa Petrochemical said. The Yunlin
county government said July 27 it has decided to fine the
company NT$3 million for the smoke produced by the fire.  
 The refiner operates three ethylene  plants  with a combined
annual capacity of 2.935 million tons.  
 To contact the reporter on the story:
 Yu-huay Sun  in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        