-- Citigroup, Galleon, BP, Visa, New Star, AB InBev, WestLB in Court News
-- Elizabeth Amon
-- 2010-07-30T12:10:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/galleon-bp-visa-new-star-kebble-eu-budweiser-westlb-in-court-news.html

          
          
             Citigroup Inc.  will pay $75 million
to settle U.S. regulatory claims that it misled investors by
failing to disclose billions of dollars in holdings tied to
subprime mortgages while the housing crisis unfolded.  
 The company made misstatements on earnings calls and in
financial filings in 2007 about assets tied to subprime loans,
the Securities and Exchange Commission said in a federal lawsuit
yesterday in Washington. Some disclosures omitted more than $40
billion in investments, it said. Citigroup’s former chief
financial officer and head of investor relations agreed to pay a
total of $180,000 for failing to disclose the risk.  
 “Even in late 2007, as the mortgage market was rapidly
deteriorating, Citigroup boasted of superior risk-management
skills in reducing its subprime exposure,” SEC Enforcement
Director Robert Khuzami said in a statement. “The rules of
financial disclosure are simple. If you choose to speak, speak
in full and not half truths.”  
 Citigroup executives publicly stated four times in 2007
that the New York-based bank had reduced its exposure to
subprime mortgage securities by 45 percent to $13 billion, as
investors and analysts clamored for information about the
deteriorating market. Regulators may investigate other firms
that revised statements about potential exposures and loss
estimates, said Elizabeth Nowicki, a former SEC attorney.  
 “We are getting a flavor of what they might go after:
overly optimistic disclosures” said Nowicki, who’s now a law
professor at Tulane University.  
 Former CFO Gary Crittenden, who left Citigroup last year,
agreed to pay $100,000 to settle claims he didn’t disclose the
risk after getting internal briefings. Arthur Tildesley,
Citigroup’s former head of investor relations, will pay $80,000
to settle claims that he helped draft disclosures that misled
investors, the SEC said. Tildesley now heads cross-marketing at
Citigroup, according to the agency.  
 Citigroup, Crittenden and Tildesley agreed to settle the
case without admitting or denying the SEC’s allegations.  
 “Mr. Crittenden is pleased to have resolved this matter,”
said John Carroll, an attorney for Crittenden at law firm
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP in New York. “The
settlement does not establish liability for purposes of any
other proceeding.”  
 Citigroup is pleased to “put this matter concerning
certain 2007 disclosures behind us,” the company said in a
statement that noted it and the executives weren’t accused of
intentional or reckless misconduct. “Mr. Tildesley is a highly
valued employee of Citi and is making significant contributions
to the company.”  
 Tildesley’s attorney, Mark Stein at Simpson Thacher &
Bartlett LLP in New York, declined to comment.  
 For more, click here.  
 Lawsuits  
 Galleon Prosecutors Held Talks to Resolve Cases  
 Federal prosecutors told a judge they’ve had
“conversations” to resolve criminal cases against defendants
charged in an alleged insider-trading ring led by former Galleon
Group LLC trader Zvi Goffer.  
 In a declaration filed in federal court in Manhattan this
month, Assistant U.S. Attorney Reed Brodsky cited his office’s
“conversations with counsel, including cooperating witnesses
and defendants, regarding dispositions in connection with the
Goffer criminal investigation.”  
 The three-page declaration was filed by Brodsky as part of
an effort to convince a judge that the government’s criminal
prosecution has been distinct from a civil case brought by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Brodsky wrote that
prosecutors’ talks have been “separate and apart from any
conversations between the staff of the SEC and these
individuals.”  
 Goffer is among seven people arrested Nov. 5 for trading on
inside tips obtained from lawyers at  Ropes & Gray LLP  and
elsewhere. One of the seven, David Plate, pleaded guilty on July
16 and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors.  
 Citing Brodsky’s declaration, U.S. District Judge Richard
Sullivan in Manhattan yesterday denied a request by the criminal
defendants in the Goffer case to obtain documents held by the
SEC.  
 The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-56, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 BP Fights U.S., Spill Victims Over Venue for Lawsuits  
 BP Plc, the U.S. and plaintiffs who filed hundreds of
lawsuits seeking billions of dollars for damages stemming from
the largest oil spill in U.S. history are fighting over where
the cases should be heard first.  
 A panel of federal judges in  Boise , Idaho, heard arguments
yesterday on which city will host spill suits, including
wrongful-death claims by families of  workers  killed in the April
explosion of the Deepwater Horizon rig. Claims include losses of
revenue by Gulf Coast businesses and securities claims by
holders of U.S. shares in the London-based energy company.  
 The government wants the cases consolidated in New Orleans,
in the state where many of those damaged by the oil spill live.
BP prefers Houston, where BP has its U.S. headquarters.  
 New Orleans “is the best avenue for justice” for
thousands of spill victims thrown out of work, Russ Herman, a
lawyer pushing to have the cases consolidated in that city, told
the panel. “The place that has suffered the most impact
deserves to have the scales balanced.”  
 The judge tapped to preside over the BP cases will make
crucial rulings on what evidence can be used and which laws
applied. Oil analyst Fadel Gheit, at Oppenheimer & Co.,
estimated yesterday that the damage from the disaster may be as
much as $49 billion.  
 BP faces at least 300 suits over the spill as it works to
permanently plug the Macondo well 40 miles off the coast. Oil
has fouled beaches and marshes in Louisiana, Mississippi,
Alabama, Texas and Florida.  
 The seven-judge  Judicial Panel on Multi-District
Litigation , created in 1968, must decide whether lawsuits in
different federal districts have common factual questions that
can be decided once and apply to all cases.  
 The process is designed to streamline the exchange of
evidence and avoid duplication. Once pretrial proceedings are
completed, the individual cases are sent back for trial in the
courts where they were first filed.  
 The main MDL case is In Re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig
“Deepwater Horizon” in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010,
MDL Docket No. 2179.  
 For more, click here.  
 Intel Says It May Avoid Class-Action Antitrust Suit  
 Intel Corp. , the world’s biggest chipmaker, said a special
master appointed to review an antitrust lawsuit brought by
computer users recommended rejecting their request for class-
action status.  
 The recommendation will become the court’s ruling unless
the plaintiffs object within 21 days, Intel spokesman Chuck
Mulloy said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  
 The purchasers of computers with Intel microprocessors
“have not established that they will be able to demonstrate an
antitrust violation through common proof,” Special Master
Vincent J. Poppiti wrote in a report to U.S. District Court in
Wilmington, Delaware.  
 The consolidated lawsuit “generally accuses Intel of
wrongfully offering discounts to computer manufacturers,”
allegedly inflating prices, according to Mulloy.  
 The lead case is Paul v. Intel Corp., 05CV485, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Visa Says Justice Department Weighing Antitrust Suit  
 Visa Inc. , the world’s biggest payments network, fell as
much as 5 percent after saying the U.S. Justice Department may
sue the company over a policy that bars merchants from charging
extra to customers who pay with credit cards.  
 “The department has indicated that it is considering
filing a civil lawsuit,” Chief Executive Officer Joseph W.
Saunders said July 28 in a conference call with analysts after
San Francisco-based Visa reported fiscal third-quarter results.
“We are currently engaged in constructive negotiations with the
department to resolve its concerns as it relates to Visa without
litigation or payment of monetary damages.”  
 Visa,  American Express Co.  and Purchase, New York-based
 MasterCard Inc.  disclosed in 2008 that the Justice Department
was investigating the companies over so-called anti-surcharging
policies and rules prohibiting merchants from “steering”
customers to other forms of payment.  
 The Justice Department’s antitrust division is
“investigating whether certain credit-card network rules
regarding merchants’ treatment of various payment forms,
including credit cards, are anticompetitive,” spokeswoman Gina
Talamona said in an e-mail. She declined to discuss specific
companies.  
 Joanna Lambert of New York-based American Express declined
to comment.  
 For more, click here.  
 Ex-New Star Fund Manager Can Sue Over ‘Bullying’  
 Patrick Evershed, a former  New Star Asset Management
Holdings Inc.  fund manager, can proceed with a lawsuit over
claims he was bullied by company founder John Duffield, a London
court said.  
 Evershed, 69, can pursue whistleblowing and unfair
dismissal claims against the fund, a London appeals court ruled
yesterday. New Star had sought to dismiss the whistleblowing
claim, which allows Evershed to seek unlimited damages. Most
U.K. unfair dismissal claims are capped at about 65,000 pounds
($101,000).  
 Evershed wrote a letter to New Star’s human resources
department complaining of Duffield’s conduct in 2008. Evershed
was suspended by the fund’s chief executive officer, Howard
Covington, shortly after, he said, according to the judgment.  
 New Star has denied the allegations and said that Evershed
resigned, according to the judgment.  
 The  case  is New Star v. Evershed, No. A2/2009/1841, Court
of Appeal (Civil Division), on appeal from the Employment Appeal
Tribunal (London).  
 For more, click here.  
 Ex-Hevesi Aide to Face Trial on Most Pension Counts  
 Henry “Hank” Morris, the former chief political adviser
to New York’s ex-comptroller, must go to trial on most of the 90
charges against him stemming from a probe of the state’s pension
fund, a judge ruled.  
 Morris, who advised former comptroller Alan Hevesi, is
accused of corrupting the investment process at the pension fund
to favor deals that would benefit himself, his associates and
contributors to Hevesi’s campaign. Hevesi hasn’t been accused of
wrongdoing in the case.  
 State Supreme Court Justice Lewis Bart Stone in Manhattan
yesterday threw out 13 counts, including grand larceny and
falsifying documents. Morris still faces an enterprise
corruption charge that carries a prison term of as long as 25
years.  
 The grand jury heard “sufficient evidence” to sustain
most of the charges, Stone wrote in his decision. The grand jury
heard that Morris created a corrupt operation in which decisions
about which funds to invest in were based on whether the fund
“agreed to pay placement fees or share management fees with
Morris rather than solely on the prudent investor rule,” the
judge said.  
 William Schwartz, an attorney for Morris, declined to
comment as he left the courtroom.  
 The Morris case is at the center of New York Attorney
General Andrew Cuomo’s investigation of corruption at the state
retirement fund. Six people have pleaded guilty to criminal
charges in the probe, including David Loglisci, former chief
investment officer at the pension fund.  
 Fifteen firms have settled and agreed to a code of conduct
drafted by Cuomo that bans so-called placement agents from
obtaining investments from public pension funds and limits
campaign contributions to those with the power to assign
investment business.  
 The case is People v. Morris, 0025/2009, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  
 For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  
 New Suits  
 Prudential Insurance Sued Over Veterans’ Benefits  
 Prudential Insurance Co. of America was sued over claims it
earns interest of more than 5.69 percent on veterans’ life-
insurance policies and pays beneficiaries only 1 percent.  
 The insurer, a unit of  Prudential Financial Inc.  “paid to
beneficiaries on the accrued claims only one percent interest on
the accrued monies as of the day of death or traumatic injury of
the insured,” according to the lawsuit, filed yesterday in
federal court in Springfield, Massachusetts.  
 The suit seeks class-action, or group, status. It was
brought by Kevin and Joyce Lucey, the beneficiaries of a
$250,000 life insurance policy for their son, Jeffrey Lucey, a
former member of the armed forces who died in 2004, according to
the suit.  
 The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs said July 28 it is
investigating life insurance companies’ practice of putting
veterans’ death benefits in corporate accounts and keeping most
of the investment profits instead of paying the survivors.  
 The Luceys were paid $53,000 in 2004, and the balance of the
policy, or $197,000, in 2009, and an added one percent annual
interest rate when the funds were distributed, according to the
complaint.  
 The interest accrued during the delay “is money that
doesn’t belong to Prudential,” Cristobal Bonifaz, a lawyer
representing plaintiffs, said in a phone interview. “If you
delay the payment, you better turn that money over.”  
 Bob DeFillippo, a spokesman for Newark, New Jersey-based
Prudential Insurance, the second-largest U.S. life insurer, said
the company hasn’t seen the lawsuit and declined to comment.  
 The case is Lucey v. Prudential Insurance Co. of America,
10-30163, U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts
(Springfield).  
 Madoff Family Members’ Companies Sued by Bankruptcy Trustee  
 Companies owned by members of Bernard Madoff’s family
should pay tens of millions of dollars to help victims of his
Ponzi scheme, the trustee recovering funds for investors said in
three lawsuits.  
 Madoff’s family members used the money to fund their
personal business ventures, trustee Irving H. Picard said in the
complaints filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York.
The companies include a hedge fund, a biotechnology company,
energy companies, and Primex Holdings LLC, a company designed to
replicate an auction process, according to the filings.  
 “Foremost among the recipients of Madoff’s gifts of
customer funds were his closest family members, including his
wife Ruth Madoff, his brother Peter, his two sons Andrew and
Mark, and his niece Shana,” Picard said in one of the
complaints.  
 In addition to using almost $250 million of customer funds
from the fraud at Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC to
fund their lavish lifestyles, Picard said in the filings that he
seeks to recover millions funneled from BLMIS to finance the
family members’ personal business ventures.  
 Madoff, 72, is serving a 150-year term in federal prison in
Butner, North Carolina, after pleading guilty to orchestrating
history’s biggest Ponzi scheme. When Madoff was arrested in
December 2008, account statements showed $65 billion in
nonexistent client investments in 4,900 accounts, according to
Picard. Investors lost about $20 billion in principal.  
 Picard, who has so far recovered $1.5 billion for Madoff’s
victims and other creditors, didn’t return a call seeking
comment after regular business hours.  
 Martin Flumenbaum, an attorney who has represented Madoff’s
sons in earlier cases, and Peter Chavkin, a lawyer for Ruth
Madoff, didn’t return calls after business hours yesterday.
Charles Spada, a lawyer for Peter Madoff, also didn’t return a
call.  
 One of the adversary cases is Irving H. Picard v. Madoff
Family LLC, 10-03485, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan). The Madoff bankruptcy case is In re
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 09-11893, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  
 Trials/Appeals  
 Kebble Chose Being Shot Over Poison to Avoid Jail, Court Hears  
 Murdered South African mining magnate Brett Kebble
considered poisoning himself before opting to be gunned down to
avoid jail, a Johannesburg court heard.  
 When three men were commissioned to shoot him five years
ago, Kebble, who had been forced to resign as chief executive
officer of three mining companies, faced a probe after assets
worth hundreds of millions of dollars went missing from  Randgold
& Exploration Ltd.  At the time, he also led JCI Ltd. and Western
Areas Ltd.  
 In an 11-year career in South Africa’s gold mining
industry, Kebble, who died at the age of 41, helped set up two
of the country’s four biggest gold companies,  Harmony Gold
Mining Co.  and  DRDGold Ltd.  Investec Ltd., a bank, and fund
manager Allan Gray Ltd., a shareholder in Kebble’s companies,
pressed for his departure after the assets went missing.  
 “Brett pleaded with me,” Clinton Nassif, who yesterday
told the South Gauteng High court that he arranged Kebble’s
killing. “He was at his wit’s end with all the trouble.”  
 John Stratton, a former JCI director, helped Kebble look
for a lethal pill “that wouldn’t show up in an autopsy,” said
Nassif, who worked as a security manager for convicted drug
dealer Glenn Agliotti. Agliotti has pleaded not guilty to
ordering Nassif to have Kebble’s murder carried out at the
mining magnate’s request, describing it as an “assisted
suicide.”  
 Robert Kanarek, a lawyer for Agliotti, declined to comment
yesterday. Agliotti faces charges of murder and conspiracy to
murder.  
 The case is State versus Agliotti, Norbert Glenn, JPV
2008/264, SS154/2009.  
 For more, click here.  
 Hays, CDI Seek Reversal of 38 Million Pounds in Fines  
 Hays Plc , Britain’s largest recruitment company, and U.S.
competitor  CDI Corp.  asked a U.K. appeals court to overturn a
total of 38 million pounds ($59.4 million) in price-fixing fines
related to their work in the construction industry.  
 The fines, levied last year by the  Office of Fair Trading ,
were excessive and based on miscalculations of revenue generated
by the scheme, a lawyer for Hays said at the  Competition Appeal
Tribunal  in London yesterday.  
 Hays’s fine was based on “a fundamental misunderstanding”
of how the company conducts business and the type of contract it
uses to match clients with workers, Mark Brealey, Hays’s lawyer
with the firm Brick Court Chambers, said at the hearing.  
 Hays, based in London, was fined 30.4 million pounds, while
Philadelphia-based CDI was fined 7.6 million pounds for fixing
fees with other companies in the cartel and agreeing to boycott
another competitor from 2004 to 2006. The fines include
discounts of as much as 35 percent because the companies
admitted to joining the scheme and cooperated with the OFT.  
 For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  
 Verdicts/Settlements  
 AB InBev Loses EU Bid to Expand Budweiser Trademark Right  
 Anheuser-Busch InBev NV , the world’s largest brewer, lost a
last court bid to extend its trademark rights to the name
Budweiser for beer across the European Union in a century-old
dispute with Budejovicky Budvar NP.  
 The  European Court of Justice  rejected AB InBev’s bid to
get a region-wide trademark and the exclusive right to use
Budweiser for beer and some other drinks, because of Budvar’s
existing rights to the name in Austria and Germany.  
 Czech competitor Budvar’s challenge to AB InBev’s trademark
application was valid, a five-judge panel said, rejecting a
claim that Budvar had failed to bring enough proof of its
earlier right in some EU countries. The Luxembourg-based EU
tribunal’s decision is final and can’t be appealed.  
 The case is part of a fight between the two breweries going
back to the early 1900s over the rights to use the names Bud and
Budweiser for beer, merchandising and other products. AB InBev,
which owns the trademark rights for Bud or Budweiser in 23 of
the 27 EU countries,  applied  14 years ago to expand its rights
to the Budweiser name across the entire region.  
 “This judgment has no effect on Anheuser-Busch InBev’s
business in Europe or our existing Bud and Budweiser rights,
which remain strong and intact,” Marianne Amssoms, the Leuven,
Belgium-based company’s spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “Filing
this application was an effort to further expand our extensive
trademark rights and gain additional protections that we
continue to believe are rightfully ours.”  
 Budvar says it owns the rights because its beer comes from
the Czech town Ceske Budejovice, or Budweis in German. Anheuser-
Busch, which first applied for the EU-wide trademark for
Budweiser in 1996, took its fight to the EU’s top court after
losing at a lower EU court last year and at the EU trademark
agency in  2007 .  
 The case is  C-214/09  P Anheuser-Busch v Office for
Harmonisation in the Internal Market, Budejovicky Budvar.  
 WestLB Board Members Will Pay 445,000 Euros to Settle Probe  
 Current and former  WestLB AG  managers agreed to pay 445,000
euros ($582,238) to settle a criminal probe over trading losses
the lender incurred in 2007.  
 The settlement resolves a probe into 600 million euros in
losses WestLB had from speculative proprietary trading, Johannes
Mocken, a spokesman for Dusseldorf, Germany, prosecutors, said
in an interview yesterday. A court approved the agreement, he
said.  
 The losses stem from transactions in which WestLB’s traders
were betting the gap between common and preferred shares of
companies such as  Volkswagen AG  would narrow. Prosecutors were
investigating the managers for failing to inform the supervisory
board about the trading risks.  
 Former Chief Executive Officer Thomas Fischer, who was
fired over the issue, will have to pay 150,000 euros under the
accord, Mocken said. Werner Taiber and Hans-Juergen Niehaus, who
are both still on WestLB’s management board, agreed to pay
150,000 and 75,000 euros, respectively.  
 “There was absolutely no wrongdoing here at all and I
would have loved to litigate the case,” said Eckhard Hild,
Fischer’s lawyer. “But because this was the shorter way to end
it, my client chose it.”  
 Taiber and Niehaus didn’t reply to a request for comment
left at their office. WestLB’s press office didn’t return a call
requesting comment.  
 Probes against two traders who engaged in the transactions
are still pending, Mocken said. He didn’t identify the traders.  
 The case is LG Duesseldorf, 10 KLS / 130 Js 30/10-8/10.  
 For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        