-- Genworth Tumbles Most Since September as Earnings Miss Some Forecasts
-- Sarah Frier
-- 2010-07-30T20:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/genworth-tumbles-most-since-september-as-earnings-miss-some-forecasts.html

          
          
             Genworth Financial Inc. , the
mortgage guarantor and life insurer, fell the most since May as
earnings disappointed some  analysts  and the company expects
home-loan delinquencies to rise in the second half.  
 Genworth fell $2.21, or 14 percent, to $13.58 at 4:10 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange Composite Trading. Even with today’s
decline, the insurer has advanced 16-fold since the March 2009
low for U.S. stocks, making it the best  performer  in the
Standard and Poor’s 500 Index.  
 In a conference call today with investors and analysts,
Genworth executives said they expected slower sales in the
second half of the year and continued problems with mortgage
delinquencies.  
 “Delinquencies generally trend up about 8 percent in both
the third and fourth quarters,” based on historical patterns,
Chief Financial Officer  Patrick Kelleher  said. Genworth will
“take a more conservative view” about its U.S. mortgage
insurance business for the second half, he said.  
 Second-quarter  net income  was $77 million, or 16 cents a
share, compared with a loss of $50 million, or 11 cents, in the
year-earlier period, the Richmond, Virginia-based insurer said
yesterday in a  statement .  
 Genworth reported operating income of 31 cents a share,
which adjusted for a reduction of its stake in Genworth MI
Canada was 24 cents. Traders focused on this measure, which
missed some analysts’ expectations, said  Steven Schwartz , who
has a “market perform” rating for the insurer at Raymond James
& Associates Inc.  
 “There was some expectation that the numbers would be much
better, which of course played into what the stock has gained in
the last couple weeks,” Schwartz said.  
 Separately, company spokesman  Tom Topinka  said Genworth was
subpoenaed in relation to New York State Attorney General Andrew
Cuomo’s fraud investigation of life insurance companies after a
Bloomberg Markets Magazine report. The magazine report yesterday
stated that more than 100 insurance companies earned investment
income on money owed in death benefits to families.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Frier  in New York at 
 sfrier@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        