-- Genzyme Call Options Should Be Purchased Given Takeover Battle, MKM Says
-- Nikolaj Gammeltoft
-- 2010-07-30T14:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/genzyme-call-options-should-be-purchased-given-takeover-battle-mkm-says.html

          
          
             Investors should buy bullish  Genzyme
Corp.  options to profit from a possible public bid from  Sanofi-
Aventis SA  for the world’s largest maker of drugs for rare
genetic diseases, MKM Partners LP said.  
 Options strategist  Jim Strugger  recommended buying October
$70 calls while selling October $75 calls, a strategy known as a
call spread that cuts the cost of the trade while capping
potential profit. Genzyme, which rebuffed a Sanofi-Aventis’
takeover approach last week, fell 0.1 percent to $69.72 as of
10:32 a.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  
 “The incremental news appears to support the likelihood of
a Sanofi-Aventis bid,” the Stamford, Connecticut-based
strategist said in an interview. “We believe that $75 is the
lower limit of the valuation range that would be acceptable to
Genzyme and that any transaction will play out over the next
four to six weeks, given the escalation of speculation in the
market.”  
 Sanofi-Aventis , France’s largest drugmaker, is preparing a
formal approach to acquire Genzyme, and plans to send a letter
to the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company in the coming days
that will detail its interest and give a specific price, said
three people with knowledge of the situation.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  has support from
his board of directors to offer as much as $70 a share for
 Genzyme Corp. , or about $18.7 billion, said the people, who
spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks are private.
The Paris-based company may offer less than $70 a share in the
letter, two of the people said.  
 Call Trading  
 Genzyme call trading  jumped  to a record of 110,174 contacts
yesterday with bullish options outnumbering puts by a ratio of
more than 2 to 1. The largest trade appeared to be a sale of
August $72.50 strike calls to purchase 22,000 October $75 calls,
according to Strugger.  
 “This investor appears to be expressing the view that a
bid for Genzyme above $72.50 is likely to come after August
option expiration on the 20th, but that the ultimate price will
be above the $75 strike of the October calls,” he wrote in a
report today  
 Sanofi will struggle to win full support from Genzyme’s
board until an offer price reaches a range of $75 to $85 a
share,  Geoff Porges , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
in New York, said in a research report.  
 Genzyme has gained 29 percent since July 22. Sanofi’s
interest in the company was first reported on July 23. Sanofi’s
American depositary receipts fell 0.4 percent to $29.17 in
trading in New York today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        