-- German Stocks Advance as Continental Climbs; DAX Index Posts Monthly Gain
-- Julie Cruz
-- 2010-07-30T16:03:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/german-stocks-retreat-heidelbergcement-gea-group-decline-merck-advances.html

          
          
             German stocks  rose, extending their
monthly gain, as a report showed U.S. business activity expanded
at a faster pace than projected, signaling manufacturing is
driving growth in the world’s largest economy.  
 Merck KGaA and  Continental AG  rose more than 1.5 percent as
analysts recommended the shares.  HeidelbergCement AG  lost 3.4
percent after reporting a decline in second-quarter net income
and giving no forecast.  
 The  DAX Index  rose 0.2 percent to 6,147.97 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Frankfurt, extending its weekly gain to 0.3 percent.
The measure has increased 3.1 percent this month as demand at
bond auctions in Greece, Spain, and Portugal eased concern that
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will derail the economic
recovery. The broader HDAX Index rose 0.1 percent today.  
 “Firms are flush with cash, very profitable, and ramped up
productivity even in the depth of the recession,” said  Bernd Weidensteiner , Frankfurt-based U.S. economist at Commerzbank AG.
“Investment spending -- at least in machinery -- already picked
up noticeably. Sooner or later, this will boost employment.”  
 The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its U.S. business barometer rose to 62.3 this month, exceeding
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Figures greater than 50 signal expansion. Economists forecast
the Chicago group’s gauge would fall to 56, according to the
median of 53 survey projections.  
 U.S. Growth  
 The employment measure, the gauge of new orders and the
gauge of inventories all increased, while a Commerce Department
report showed U.S. growth slowed to a 2.4 percent annual rate in
the second quarter, less than forecast, reflecting a larger
trade deficit and an easing in consumer spending.  
 Merck  climbed 1.7 percent to 68.30 euros. The
pharmaceutical and chemicals company was raised to
“outperform” from “underperform” at Credit Suisse Group AG.  
 Continental , Europe’s second-largest auto-parts supplier,
rallied 1.9 percent to 48.95 euros. The stock was raised to
“buy” from “accumulate” at Equinet AG, which said the
company is “an excellent possibility to play the ongoing
recovery of the automotive market as it is also well positioned
to continue growing once the recovery of the broad market is
over.”  
 European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.  rose 3 percent to
18.07 euros in Frankfurt after raising its target for 2010 net
income and revenue as deliveries of passenger jets at its Airbus
unit increase.  
 EADS Sales  
 Sales will grow to more than 44 billion euros ($57.5
billion) from 42.8 billion euros in 2009 and adjusted earnings
before interest and tax should reach about 1.2 billion euros,
EADS, based in Paris and Munich, said. In March, the company
predicted Ebit of 1 billion euros and stagnant sales.  
 EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG  climbed 1.2 percent to
37.23 euros as the utility raised its 2010 earnings outlook
after it transmitted more power with higher fees and the company
sold its GESO utility operator later than planned.  
 HeidelbergCement  sank 3.4 percent to 38.65 euros, ending
the stock’s longest winning streak since March. The world’s
largest maker of aggregates used to produce concrete and asphalt
gave no forecast, only stating that it plans to benefit over
proportionally from the economic recovery this year and next.
The recovery’s strength and the impact of budget-deficit cutting
on infrastructure spending are still unclear, Chief Executive
Officer  Bernd Scheifele  said. Rival Lafarge SA cut its outlook
for cement demand in its markets in 2010.  
 HeidelbergCement Drops  
 Second-quarter net income for HeidelbergCement fell 64
percent to 120 million euros, as a year earlier it had a gain
from selling a stake in Indonesia’s second-largest cement maker
and a tax gain. Net income trailed the mean estimate of 207.7
million euros in a Bloomberg survey.  
 GEA Group  AG tumbled 2.9 percent to 17.37 euros. The
engineering company, whose machines milk a third of the world’s
dairy cows, said second-quarter net income fell to 28.8 million
euros from 32.4 million euros.  
 Software AG  slumped 3.8 percent to 85.56 euros as Germany’s
second-largest software maker was downgraded to “sell” at
Piper Jaffray Ltd. and at B. Metzler Seel. Sohn & Co. KGaA.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        