-- Spanish Bonds Fall Versus Germany's After Moody Warns Spain About Rating
-- Matthew Brown
-- 2010-07-30T16:23:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/german-government-10-year-yields-near-one-week-low-as-retail-sales-decline.html

          
          
             Spanish government bonds
underperformed German debt after Moody’s Investors Service said
it will probably downgrade the Iberian nation’s credit rating.
Portuguese and Irish debt fell.  
 German 10-year government bond yields fell to the least in
a week after reports showed U.S. gross domestic product expanded
more slowly than forecast in the second quarter, and retail
sales in the region’s biggest economy dropped more than forecast
in June. Two-year yields dropped to the lowest in four days as
data from the European Union statistics office in Luxembourg
showed euro-region  unemployment  stayed at 10 percent last month
and inflation accelerated to 1.7 percent in July, the fastest
pace in 1 1/2 years.  
 “There has been an increase in risk aversion and that’s
helping the core European countries rally while the periphery
isn’t benefiting,” said  Karsten Linowsky , a fixed-income
strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich. “These comments
from Moody’s and sentiment out of the U.S. are adding to this.”  
 Spanish 10-year yields were two basis points lower at 4.23
percent as of 4:48 p.m. in London while German bund yields
slipped four basis points to 2.67 percent.  German two-year note
yields declined five basis points to 0.78 percent.  
 Retail Sales  
 Portuguese bonds returned 3.7 percent this month, making
them the biggest gainer in the euro region, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. Spanish debt handed investors 3.5 percent
and Irish securities 3.2 percent. U.K. gilts lost 1 percent and
German debt 0.9 percent, the worst returns among the 26
countries tracked in the indexes.  
 The Portuguese 10-year yield jumped 10 basis points to 5.23
percent today. The extra yield investors demand to hold the debt
instead of bunds, Europe’s benchmark government security,
climbed 12 basis points to 251 basis points.  
 German  retail sales  slipped 0.9 percent from May, when they
rose 3 percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said.
Economists forecast a decline of 0.2 percent, the median of 14
estimates in a Bloomberg survey showed. In the year, sales rose
3.1 percent.  
 Italian debt fell as Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  took
 steps to expel   Gianfranco Fini  from the People of Liberty party
they co-founded, a move that may end the premier’s parliamentary
majority two years into his term.  
 Spanish Redemption  
 “This may reduce the Italian government’s ability to
govern,” said  Matteo Regesta , an interest-rate strategist at
BNP Paribas SA in London. “It is worth keeping an eye on
Italian bonds.”  
 Italian 10-year yields were little changed at 3.96 percent,
while two-year yields surged 15 basis points to 1.91 percent.  
 Spanish bonds were supported as investors prepared to
receive a 16 billion-euro payment from the redemption of a five-
year Spanish note today, the last bond repayment for Spain until
April 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. There’s
also an 8.3 billion-euro interest payment, according to Nomura
International Plc.  
 “Spain is very highly rated and I can’t say where that
rating will end up, but it’s likely to go down a bit,”  Steven A Hess , senior credit officer at Moody’s, said in an interview in
Sydney yesterday.  
 Investors should end a bet, opened on July 9, that Spanish
five-year notes will outperform similar-maturity German debt,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  
 “We continue to see value in EMU sovereign-debt markets,
but the pace of spread compression is likely to be moderate
given how fast spreads have tightened recently,” Goldman Sachs
analyst  Michael Vaknin  in London wrote today in an e-mailed
research note.  
 The yield premium, or  spread , investors demand to hold
Spanish five-year notes instead of German debt, the benchmark
for the euro region, was 130 basis points, according to
Bloomberg generic data. The spread was 201 basis points on July
9.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        