-- German Retail Sales Decline in June After Biggest Increase in Two Years
-- Gabi Thesing
-- 2010-07-30T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/german-retail-sales-decline-in-june-after-biggest-increase-in-two-years.html

          
          
             Retail sales  in Germany, Europe’s
largest economy, fell in June after surging the most in more
than two years the previous month.  
 Sales , adjusted for inflation and seasonal swings, slipped
0.9 percent from May, when they rose 3 percent, the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said in a statement today. That
was the most since January 2008. Economists forecast a decline
of 0.2 percent, the median of 14 estimates in a Bloomberg News
 survey  showed. In the year,  sales  rose 3.1 percent.  
 “After last month’s jump a backlash had to be expected,”
said  Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit Group in Munich.
“The trend is for solid consumer spending as the economy is
doing well and German consumers are starting to overcome their
fear of losing their jobs.”  
 German companies are stepping up  output  and adding workers
as an Asian-led global recovery boosts export orders, which in
turn may encourage consumer demand. German  business confidence 
surged to the highest in three years in July and GfK AG said its
monthly index of  household confidence  increased.  
 German unemployment declined for a 13th month in July,
lowering the  jobless rate  to 7.6 percent from 7.7 percent, the
Federal Labor Agency said yesterday. The drop came the same day
as companies from  Siemens AG , Europe’s largest engineering
company, to  BASF SE , the world’s biggest chemical company,
reported earnings that beat analysts’ estimates.  
 German economy Minister  Rainer Bruederle  said on July 27
that he expects consumer spending to “increase in the course of
this year and make a positive contribution to the broad economic
development.”  Hugo Boss AG , Germany’s largest clothing maker,
yesterday reported a 31 percent gain in first-half profit.  
 The Bundesbank said last month it expects the German
economy to expand 1.9 percent this year and 1.4 percent in 2011.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gabi Thesing  in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        