-- Geron Cleared By U.S. Regulators to Test Embryonic Stem-Cell Treatment
-- Molly Peterson
-- 2010-07-30T20:48:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/geron-cleared-by-fda-to-test-embryonic-stem-cell-treatment-shares-climb.html

          
          
             Geron Corp.  said it was cleared by
U.S. regulators to proceed with the first human test of an
embryonic stem-cell therapy, aimed at patients with spinal-cord
injuries. The shares rose 17 percent.  
 The Food and Drug Administration lifted a clinical hold on
the study imposed last August when the company revealed that
mice used in experimental work had developed cysts, Geron said
in a statement. The company may start recruiting patients with
new spinal cord injuries in about one month, said  Thomas Okarma ,
Geron’s president and chief executive officer, in a telephone
interview today.  
 The FDA’s action will allow the company to proceed with a
long-awaited milestone -- the first authorized clinical trial in
the world using stem cells derived from human embryos. The
approval comes after almost a year of Geron’s testing and
genetic analysis to resolve FDA questions, and paves the way for
future trials.  
 “This is an important milestone for the whole field to
have an embryonic stem cell therapeutic in clinical trials,”
said  Alan Trounson , president of the California Institute for
Regenerative Medicine, the state stem-cell funding agency, in an
e-mailed statement. Geron hasn’t received any funding from the
agency.  
 Geron rose 83 cents, or 17 percent, to $5.63 at 4 p.m. in
Nasdaq stock market composite trading. The shares fell 35
percent in the last twelve months.  
 New Therapy Type  
 The FDA action strengthens Geron’s ability to start similar
trials in the future, Okarma said. It also leaves regulators
with a better grasp of how to review a completely new type of
therapy.  
 “It’s helped both of us to get up the learning curve
together,” Okarma said. “We’ve brought the FDA to a higher
level of understanding which has been very positive and mutually
beneficial. And phew, it’s about time.”  
 The FDA originally gave the go-ahead to Geron to start the
trial on Jan. 23, 2009, three days after  Barack Obama  was sworn
in as U.S. president. The approval appeared to turn the corner
on the policies of the administration of former President  George W. Bush , who limited federal funding for embryonic stem-cell
research, discouraging investment in the technology, said
 Stephen Brozak , an analyst with WBB Securities in New York.  
 Geron Strengthened  
 The Bush administration’s objections to embryonic stem-cell
research, followed by the cautious approach the FDA took in
reviewing Geron’s clinical trial proposal, served to strengthen
Geron while keeping other companies out of the field, Brozak
said.  
 “They had the entire U.S. government operating opposed to
their interests,” Brozak said in a telephone interview today.
“There is no single scientific endeavor that has more scrutiny
than stem cells and they are the first through that breach.”  
 Brozak has a “strong buy” recommendation on Geron and a
target price of $19, the highest of any analyst. His firm has
also done investment banking for Geron.  
 If patients are helped by the stem-cell treatment in
Geron’s pilot trial and the study is seen as a success, Geron’s
shares are likely to soar with “volume of biblical
proportions,” Brozak said.  
 In that scenario, the company’s biggest challenge may be to
fend off takeover bids, he said.  
 Two Other Companies  
 Two other U.S. companies are working with embryonic stem
cells.  Advanced Cell Technology  of Marlborough, Massachusetts,
is awaiting FDA approval to start a clinical trial in patients
with Stargardt’s macular dystrophy, an eye disorder that causes
severe vision loss. The company announced July 28 it had
provided the FDA with additional information the agency needed
to review the company’s application to start a trial.  
 Advanced Cell expects the agency to approve the application
or ask for new information within a month,  William Caldwell ,
Advanced Cell’s chief executive officer, said in a July 28
telephone interview.  
 The company plans to start a 12-patient trial in the last
three months of this year and has enough cash to run the trial,
Caldwell said. Advanced Cell can tap into lines of credit to run
a second-stage trial with 40 to 80 patients if the first one
shows the cells are safe, he said.  
 Advanced Cell shares rose less than 1 penny to 7.4 cents in
over-the-counter trading.  
 Diabetes Therapy  
 Viacyte, formerly known as Novocell Inc., a closely held
San Diego company, is working on methods of turning embryonic
stem cells into insulin-secreting cells for the treatment of
diabetes.  
 Geron has developed a process to make embryonic stem cells
into glial cells, a type of nerve cell that helps support the
work of neurons. In spinal cord injuries, nerve cells can no
longer transmit information down the spine, resulting in
paralysis.  
 Geron’s clinical trial will start with patients who have
badly damaged, not severed, their spinal cords in the region
that starts below the neck. The planned protocol would allow the
company to inject a small number of stem cells, then increase
the dosage in later patients.  
 If this effort is successful and ongoing work in animals
continues to show promise, the company may also be allowed to
treat patients with injuries to their spinal cord in the
cervical region above the shoulders, Okarma said.  
 Geron wants to conduct future trials in patients with other
neurological conditions including multiple sclerosis and
Alzheimer’s disease, Okarma said. The company also is developing
heart cells made from embryonic cells to treat patients with
heart disease.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net ,  Molly Peterson  in Washington at 
   mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Stem Cell Research  
                       
                         
                           Sandy Huffaker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         An embryologist takes out a vial containing frozen human embryos from a liquid nitrogen tank at the La Jolla IVF Lab in La Jolla, California. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     An embryologist takes out a vial containing frozen human embryos from a liquid nitrogen tank at the La Jolla IVF Lab in La Jolla, California. Photographer: Sandy Huffaker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
