-- GrainCorp to Buy AWB for A$803 Million to Supply Asia
-- Wendy Pugh
-- 2010-07-30T07:26:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/graincorp-agrees-to-acquire-awb-for-769-million-to-secure-wheat-supplies.html

          
          
               GrainCorp Ltd . agreed to buy AWB Ltd.
for A$803 million ($723 million) to become Australia’s top wheat
exporter, taking on Cargill Inc. and  Viterra Inc . in supplying  Asia , the biggest buyer of the grain.  
 GrainCorp, eastern Australia’s largest grain handler,
offered one share for every 5.75 AWB shares, the two companies
said today in a statement. That values the Melbourne-based
company’s stock at 98.3 cents each.  
 Viterra, the largest Canadian grain handler, bought
Australia’s ABB Grain Ltd. last year after the fourth-largest
wheat exporting nation ended AWB’s monopoly over overseas
shipments two years ago. Agricultural companies worldwide are
seeking acquisitions to meet surging demand for food led by
China and  India , the two most populous countries.  
 “It is a highly competitive market now that the big
internationals have entered the space and a combined group would
be a more competitive force,”  Belinda Moore , a Brisbane-based
analyst with Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said today.  
 AWB, which made a first-half loss, rose 3.7 percent to 99
cents at the 4:10 p.m. local time close on the Australian stock
exchange. Sydney-based GrainCorp fell 6.2 percent to A$5.65.  
 The Australian government ended AWB’s monopoly after an
inquiry found the company was among 2,200 firms that made
illegal payments to win contracts from  Saddam Hussein ’s regime
under the United Nation’s oil-for-food program.  
 AWB’s credit rating of BBB- was placed on creditwatch with
developing implications by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Service.
“We believe the business profile of  AWB Ltd . will be bolstered
if the merger proceeds,” the agency said.  
 300 Silos  
 The combined company will be Australia’s largest
agribusiness, AWB Chairman Peter Polson said. The group will
have about 300 silos across four states and operate seven grain
export elevators as well as two bulk shipping ports, the
companies said.  
 “The merged company will have the scale to compete more
effectively against the large global grain companies now
competing domestically, and exporting grain from Australia, and
places us in a strong position to take advantage of the growing
food demand from Asia, the Middle East and North Africa,”
GrainCorp Chairman Don Taylor said in a statement.  
 AWB exported 27 percent of Australian bulk wheat in
calendar 2009, according to industry estimates in a government
report on arrangements since the monopoly ended. Closely held
CBH Group shipped 24 percent, Cargill 12 percent GrainCorp 11
percent and Viterra 6 percent.  
 Gavilon Talks  
 “Australian production can easily get into Southeast Asia
and into the Middle East and across to  Africa  and we have a
competitive edge over everyone in  Southeast Asia ,” Peter Rowe,
an agricultural economist at Perth-based BankWest, said by phone.
“There is increasing affluence in those countries and they are
starting to consume more of the higher-quality grains.”  
 GrainCorp began negotiations with AWB after an exclusivity
agreement expired at the end of last month on talks between AWB
and Omaha, Nebraska-based Gavilon LLC on a domestic grains
management joint venture and the sale of the Geneva unit.  
 The merger will cut costs by A$40 million in the first two
years and boost earnings from the second year, the companies
said in a presentation. GrainCorp’s Alison Watkins will take
over as chief executive officer of the merged company. The deal
is subject to approval by AWB shareholders and GrainCorp and the
Australian Competition and Consumer Commission.  
   Food Production   
 The majority of Australian bulk wheat exports are shipped
to Asia, according to a report by Wheat Exports  Australia .  
 Global food production has to rise 70 percent by 2050 as
the world population expands to 9.1 billion people from about
6.8 billion people now, the UN Food and Agriculture Organization
has said.  Developing countries  will be the main source of rising
output, consumption and trade, according to the group.  
 GrainCorp is also the world’s fourth-largest malt producer
and the transaction will diversify its earnings through the
addition of AWB’s Landmark rural services unit.  
 AWB also cut its full-year forecast for profit before tax
and onetime items to between A$75 million and A$95 million. This
compares with its March prediction of between A$85 million and
A$110 million.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Pugh in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       GrainCorp Agrees to Acquire AWB for A$856 Million  
                       
                         
                           Jeremy Piper/Bloomberg 
                         
                         GrainCorp, eastern Australia’s largest grain handler, offered one of its share for every 5.75 AWB shares, valuing each share of the Melbourne-based company at A$1.047. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     GrainCorp, eastern Australia’s largest grain handler, offered one of its share for every 5.75 AWB shares, valuing each share of the Melbourne-based company at A$1.047.  Photographer: Jeremy Piper/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
