-- Li Lu, Hedge Fund Manager, May Help Berkshire Abroad (Update1)
-- Andrew Frye
-- 2010-07-30T15:49:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/li-lu-hedge-fund-manager-may-help-berkshire-discover-deals-outside-u-s-.html

          
          
             Li Lu , the hedge-fund manager who
helped  Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  find profits in China, may push
 Warren Buffett ’s investment company to make more deals outside
the U.S. if he takes a role at the company.  
 “He is a person that Buffett has confidence in from a
trust standpoint and who has experience from an international
standpoint,” said  Michael Yoshikami , who oversees about $1
billion, including Berkshire shares, at YCMNet Advisors in
Walnut Creek, California. Hiring Li would mean “Buffett
recognizes that the strategy that has worked in the past has to
be adjusted in the new environment where more stable economies
are likely to grow at slower growth rates.”  
 Li, 44, is in line to be hired as one of the  executives  who
would eventually replace Buffett, the 79-year-old chief
executive officer, and help manage Berkshire’s investments, the
Wall Street Journal reported. Berkshire Vice Chairman  Charlie Munger  said “it’s a foregone conclusion” that Li would
probably become a top investment official at Berkshire, the
Journal reported.  
 Buffett is seeking more opportunities abroad after the 2008
investment in China’s  BYD Co. , which has jumped eightfold. Li
helped arrange the deal, according to the Journal.  
 Buffett plans to tour Japan and India next year in search
of deals. In May, he praised the prospects for economic growth
in China. Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire, which Buffett has run
for four decades, is ready to spend $10 billion on its next
takeover, Buffett said this year.  
 Investment Soars  
 Berkshire’s 9.9 percent stake in BYD, the Chinese car and
battery maker, soared to a market value of $1.99 billion at the
end of December from a purchase price of $232 million. Li’s
assistance on BYD helped Berkshire make the deal, said  Thomas Russo , a partner at Gardner Russo & Gardner in Lancaster,
Pennsylvania.  
 “He’s the person who could bridge the cultural gap with
the BYD founding families,” said Russo, a Berkshire investor.
Li helped Berkshire win “terms that are so different than what
most Western companies have experienced” in China, Russo said.  
 Li started a fund with money from Munger, and he wrote the
foreword to the Chinese version of the Berkshire executive’s  Poor
Charlie’s Almanack . In the English-language collection of
Munger’s quotes and ideas, Buffett wrote the foreword.  
 Munger’s Collaborator  
 Li’s original fund had annual compound growth of more than
29 percent, from inception in January 1998 through the end of
2009, the manager said in Poor Charlie’s. Another fund posted an
annual compound return of more than 36 percent, Li said.  
 Li, former president of the Student Congress on Tiananmen
Square, graduated in 1993 from Columbia University, where
Buffett went to business school. The money manager met Munger
after college and the two exchanged thoughts on investing,
according to an essay Li wrote for the China Entrepreneur
Magazine in May and posted on the  website  of his hedge fund,
Himalaya Capital.  
 Buffett, Munger and Li didn’t return calls and e-mails to
their assistants.  
 In an interview with the Journal, Buffett declined to rule
out the possibility that he would bring in an investment manager
while still CEO at Berkshire. Buffett wouldn’t discuss
succession plans specifically, the newspaper reported.  
 Buffett’s responsibilities will be split upon his death or
retirement among at least three people, the company has said. A
CEO will oversee the collection of more than 70 operating units
assembled by Buffett and Munger, and one or more investment
managers will allocate capital and manage Berkshire’s  portfolio .
Buffett’s son Howard will probably assume the position of non-
executive chairman to preserve the firm’s culture.  
 ‘High-Grade’  
 “I have the pleasure of knowing Li Lu and he is a
brilliant and high-grade individual,”  Whitney Tilson , founder
of hedge fund T2 Partners LLC, said in an e-mail. “I am
thrilled for him as well as for Berkshire Hathaway, which is one
of our largest positions.”  
 Buffett said last year that he had four candidates to
succeed him as chief investment officer. He didn’t publicly name
them. Earlier, he’d said that he would audition managers who are
“genetically programmed” to avoid large risks.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        