-- IBM `Velociraptors' Modeling Monkey Brains in Quest for Sales
-- Ryan Flinn
-- 2010-07-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/ibm-simulates-monkey-brains-as-researchers-seek-breakthrough-for-revenue.html

          
          
             In a small, windowless room in the
basement of  International Business Machines Corp. ’s Almaden lab
in Silicon Valley, Dharmendra Modha is building a simulated
monkey brain using images projected on flat-screen TVs.  
 Modha , the lab’s manager of cognitive computing, urged Big
Blue to back his pet project, which combines advances in
nanotechnology, supercomputing and neuroscience. If successful,
the effort could help computers “think” like the human mind.  
 IBM green-lights proposals from Modha and other researchers
at the San Jose, California, facility because some of the
gambles can spawn significant business. Since the 1990s, lab
advances in how data is stored, managed and analyzed have helped
generate millions of dollars in sales. Yet even lab directors
concede chances are slim that any one breakthrough will make a
sizable addition to IBM’s almost $100 billion in annual revenue.  
 “We have no way of making money off of this -- unless a
miracle happens and we figure out how to make better
computers,” said Laura Haas, director of computer science at
Almaden and the lab’s  second-in-command , who wears a “Question
Authority” button. “We’re different. It takes a different kind
of craziness here.”  
 While  IBM  may move at a slower pace than smaller West Coast
startups, it aims to give Almaden researchers as much leeway as
their Silicon Valley peers, said Winfried Wilcke, senior manager
of the lab’s nanoscale science and technology research.  
 “If you think of us as dinosaurs, then think of us as
velociraptors,” he said, referring to the nimble predators of
the Late Cretaceous period. “The freedom we have here is
great.”  
 Mixed Results  
 Silicon Valley labs have a mixed record of getting a
payback -- a high return on investment -- from their
discoveries. While IBM was able to capitalize on Almaden’s
invention of the disk drive and relational database, many of
 Xerox Corp. ’s early innovations at its Palo Alto Research Center
-- such as the Macintosh-style graphical user interface --
brought more benefit to other companies.  
 “Making some bets that are unlinked to specific outcomes
is important, but if it’s all kind of curiosity-driven research,
the ROI on innovation investing may not be that high,” said
 John Kao , chairman of the Institute for Large Scale Innovation
in San Francisco.  
 Some investors say IBM needs big deals more than research
to increase revenue. While the company has boosted earnings per
share through such steps as buybacks and cost controls, rivals
Oracle Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co. have eclipsed its stock-
price performance in part through big purchases that added to
sales.  
 Research, Dealmaking  
 Since  Sam Palmisano  became chief executive officer of IBM
in 2002, it spent $25 billion buying publicly held companies.
Compare that with at least $45 billion for Hewlett-Packard and
$42 billion for Oracle. IBM stock has risen 25 percent in the
Palmisano era, compared with 53 percent for Oracle and 128
percent for Hewlett-Packard.  
 Palmisano said in May that he plans to spend $20 billion
more on acquisitions in the next five years. On Palmisano’s
watch, IBM also has increased its research spending by 31
percent. Last year, it devoted $5.8 billion, about 6 percent of
annual revenue, to R&D.  
 The Silicon Valley version of IBM fosters a freer attitude
and more of a startup mentality than headquarters in Armonk, New
York. While the century-old IBM is known for white shirts, dark
suits and button-downed attitude, the staff at Almaden tackles
oddball research projects and unwinds by holding sack races and
tug-of-war competitions.  
 ‘Crazy Scientists’  
 Located on a hill in a 1,600-acre  wildlife preserve , the
Almaden lab is painted a custom dark-green color derived from
leaves and grass that employees gathered on site. The lobby
boasts a 5-foot-diameter  digital display globe  that was
purchased after researchers saw a similar device at a Denver
museum and thought it would be “cool” to have one.  
 “New York was like, ‘You crazy scientists can do this, but
come August, you have show us results,’” said  Julia Grace , a
social and collaborative computing engineer. The globe has been
used to plot last year’s swine flu outbreak and more recently to
show the location of people sending messages delivered via
Twitter Inc. during World Cup soccer matches.  
 Almaden’s projects include an electric battery for
automobiles that could run 500 miles on one charge, a filtration
system for desalination and a program that shows changes in
geographical data. Researchers can shake up an industry, even if
they don’t make a fortune, Haas said.  
 “You’re not going to get rich, but you can change the
world,” she said. “ IBM  is a big ship, and you need a certain
amount of patience to turn the wheel. But if that ship turns,
the wake in the industry is enormous.”  
 IBM Fellows  
 Employees at the lab consider themselves “wild ducks” for
working on projects that don’t fit in with what headquarters in
New York wants to pursue, she said.  
 Almaden has a “better sense of ‘the next big thing’”
because of its location, said Mark Dean,  IBM ’s vice president of
strategy, who works at the Watson lab in Yorktown Heights, New
York.  
 “It’s the only place in IBM where we’re doing advanced
battery research,” he said. “The only place we’re doing water
desalination.”  
 Of IBM’s nine research centers, Almaden also is the only
one to hold an annual Olympics-style event, where IBM Fellows --
the highest technical honor a researcher can receive at the
company -- compete with interns in athletic events. Competition
for the first-place trophy is so fierce that research team
directors taunt each other in self-directed  videos  by breaking
wooden boards with their hands or donning Star Trek uniforms.  
 High Expectations  
 Even with its renegade spirit, Almaden is under growing
pressure to produce results, said  David Patterson , a computer
science  professor  at the University of California, Berkeley.  
 “People expect more product impact from their research
labs than they did 20 to 30 years ago,” he said.  
 In the 1990s, Almaden developed a method of encryption for
media content. Used in memory cards and Blu-ray discs, this
technology has earned IBM millions of dollars in licensing fees.  
 Giant magnetoresistive heads, introduced in 1997, helped
hard disk drives increase their data-storage capacity 40-fold. A
query system developed at Almaden in the late 1990s, named
Garlic, integrates data from multiple sources and has earned IBM
hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue. More recently, the
lab developed a file-management system called GPFS that IBM now
adds to its archiving, networking and cloud computing products.  
 Still, technology companies continue to fund research
without knowing where it will lead. Mountain View, California-
based  Google  lets its workers spend 20 percent of their time
working on personal projects.  
 Productivity Gain  
 “We’ve found that people are more productive when they are
working on projects that really excite them,” said Jordan
Newman, a Google spokesman. Products including Google News and
Gmail got their start that way.  
 At IBM, some projects don’t pan out. In the early 1990s,
Haas and IBM’s database management team wanted to figure out a
way of searching the World Wide Web, something that hadn’t
emerged yet.  
 “If we did it right, we might have invented search before
 Google ,” Haas said. “But we had the wrong model, and we
totally missed the boat. We were thinking about librarians.”  
 Modha, the researcher working on the monkey brain, quit IBM
a decade ago in order to work on his own startup. After a short
time, he realized he didn’t have the financial acumen to run a
business and returned to Almaden.  
 “We have a 100-year history,” he said. “The challenge
is, how do we usher in the next 100 years?”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan Flinn  in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Dharmendra Modha, manager of cognitive computing at the International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) Almaden research facility. Photographer: Tony Avelar/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Dharmendra Modha, manager of cognitive computing at the International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) Almaden research facility, is reflected in an image of neurons during an interview in San Jose. Photographer: Tony Avelar/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       ‘Velociraptors’ Simulate Monkey Brains In Quest For Sales  
                       
                         
                           Tony Avelar/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Laura Haas, director of computer science and second-in-command of the International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) Almaden research facility, displays her "Question Authority" button. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Laura Haas, director of computer science and second-in-command of the International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) Almaden research facility, displays her "Question Authority" button. Photographer: Tony Avelar/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Winfried Wilcke, senior manager of nanoscale science and technology research at the International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) Almaden research facility. Photographer: Tony Avelar/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Employees compete in a water balloon toss during the annual IBM Olympics at the International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) Almaden research facility in San Jose. Photographer: Tony Avelar/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Medals are displayed during the annual IBM Olympics at the company's Almaden research facility in San Jose. Photographer: Tony Avelar/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Water Balloon Contest During IBM Olympics  
                       
                         
                           Tony Avelar/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Benny Kimelfeld, a research scientist at the International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) Almaden research facility, gets hit in the water balloon toss event during the IBM Olympics in San Jose. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Benny Kimelfeld, a research scientist at the International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) Almaden research facility, gets hit in the water balloon toss event during the IBM Olympics in San Jose. Photographer: Tony Avelar/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Christine Robson, a research staff member at the International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) Almaden research facility, cheers on teammates in the tug-of-war competition during the IBM Olympics in San Jose. Photographer: Tony Avelar/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Kazuki Fukushima, a postdoctoral associate at the International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) Almaden research facility, displays organic catalysts in a lab in San Jose. Photographer: Tony Avelar/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Magnetoelectronics Manager Stuart Parkin  
                       
                         
                           Tony Avelar/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Stuart Parkin, manager of Magnetoelectronics at the International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) Almaden research facility, in his lab in San Jose. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Stuart Parkin, manager of Magnetoelectronics at the International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) Almaden research facility, in his lab in San Jose. Photographer: Tony Avelar/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Sebastian Loth, a nanoscale studies researcher at the International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) Almaden research facility, speaks next to a scanning tunneling microscope in his lab in San Jose. Photographer: Tony Avelar/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Sebastian Loth, a nanoscale studies researcher at the International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) Almaden research facility, holds the component of a scanning tunneling microscope where atoms get manipulated in his lab in San Jose. Photographer: Tony Avelar/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
