-- Ignatieff Says It's Too Soon to `Shut the Door' on More Canada Stimulus
-- Theophilos Argitis
-- 2010-07-30T14:51:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/ignatieff-says-it-s-too-soon-to-shut-the-door-on-more-canada-stimulus.html

          
          
             Canadian opposition leader  Michael Ignatieff  said it’s too early to “shut the door” on additional
economic stimulus as new spending measures may be needed to fuel
the recovery.  
 Ignatieff, whose Liberal Party holds the balance of power
in Parliament, said “very high levels” of consumer debt pose a
risk to the recovery by putting a “squeeze on the middle-class
family” as interest  rates rise .  
 “We’re not sure the economic recovery is stable,”
Ignatieff, 63, said in an interview in Toronto yesterday.
“We’re going to have to make judgments about whether stimulus
may be necessary” next year.  
 Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s Conservative government has
said it will end a second year of emergency stimulus in March
and balance the budget within five years. His party doesn’t have
a majority in Parliament and needs the support of at least one
of three opposition parties to pass the budget and avoid getting
toppled.  
 The Bank of Canada last week raised the target rate for
overnight loans between commercial banks a quarter point to 0.75
percent and cut its growth forecast, citing a “weaker profile”
for the global economy and more modest domestic consumption. The
bank, which forecast growth of 2.9 percent in 2011 after a 3.5
percent pace this year, anticipates federal and provincial
governments will begin to act as a drag on output next year as
they rein in spending.  
 Slower Growth  
 “Personal debt is a concern because we think it may slow
down consumption, it may slow down growth,” said Ignatieff, who
is on a nationwide summer bus tour the party has dubbed the
“Liberal Express.” “That raises a future issue on which we
have not pronounced, which is might we need more stimulation.”  
 Data show household debt levels nearing those in the U.S,
with the ratio of debt to disposable income at 1.46 in the first
quarter from 1.09 in 2000. In the U.S., the ratio fell to 1.53
from a peak of 1.66 in 2008.  
 Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said July 22 that the
levels of indebtedness in the two countries are starting to
“cross over” and he urged Canadians to consider their capacity
to service debts as interest rates rise.  
 Canada’s Liberal lawmakers, who have pledged not to raise
taxes if elected, have been pushing the government to cancel a
plan to cut corporate income taxes. They say the country can no
longer afford the reduction in revenue amid record deficits and
growing needs for investments in education and innovation.  
 More Investments  
 The Liberals have pledged to move forward on investments in
higher education, support for homecare for aging Canadians, and
clean energy if they regain power. They plan to finance it by
eliminating corporate tax cuts.  
 Ignatieff said rising debt levels will constrain what the
government would be able to do in the future, and said Harper’s
tax-cut plan reduces their room to manage any further slowdown.  
 “Our margins have been shaved away by the Conservatives,”
said Ignatieff, adding that he takes the need to reduce debt
levels “very seriously.”  
 “We will look very carefully at the indicators and if we
need additional stimulus we will say so, but we will also say
where we would target it and where it will come from,” he said,
citing his party’s plan to eliminate corporate tax cuts. “I
don’t want to shut the door. I don’t think we’re out of the
woods. It’s that simple.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Toronto at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Liberal Party Leader Michael Ignatieff  
                       
                         
                           Aaron Harris/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Michael Ignatieff, leader of Canada's opposition Liberal Party, speaks during a campaign stop in Toronto. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Michael Ignatieff, leader of Canada's opposition Liberal Party, speaks during a campaign stop in Toronto. Photographer: Aaron Harris/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
