-- IMF Says U.S. Financial System May Need $76 Billion in Capital
-- Rebecca Christie
-- 2010-07-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/imf-says-u-s-banking-system-might-need-as-much-as-76-billion-in-capital.html

          
          
             The U.S.  financial system  remains
fragile and banks subjected to additional economic stress might
need as much as $76 billion in capital, according to the results
of International Monetary Fund stress tests.  
 The findings, released today as part of a broader IMF
report on the U.S. financial system, suggested that while the
nation’s banking system is stable, it remains vulnerable. Home
prices, commercial real estate loans and economic growth have
the potential to cause shocks that could expose banks to more
losses.  
 Under one scenario, small and regional banks as well as
subsidiaries of foreign banks would need $40.5 billion in
additional capital to meet a benchmark capital ratio of 6
percent Tier 1 common equity from 2010 to 2014. Under the
adverse scenario, those needs rise to $76.3 billion, according
to the report.  
 “Pockets of vulnerabilities linger,” the fund said in the
report. The U.S. is recovering from what the IMF called “one of
the most devastating financial crises in a century.”  
 Because the economic recovery is proceeding slowly,
regulators must be especially vigilant in guarding against risks
and weak spots, the report said.  
 The IMF also renewed its call for the Obama administration
to push ahead with changes to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the
government-sponsored enterprise housing companies. The report
suggested a partial privatization strategy, in which the
government would take over the GSEs’ public housing mission
while privatizing investment operations.  
 Regulators’ Role  
 The IMF stopped short of recommending recapitalizing the
banks it studied in the report. Instead, it urged regulators to
monitor conditions, especially for smaller institutions with
less market access.  
 The numbers “are not frightening,” said  Christopher Towe ,
the IMF’s deputy director of monetary and capital markets who
directed the assessment. The review process was created in the
wake of the Asian crisis, and the U.S. is the first major
economy to undergo it since the global financial turmoil.  
 “We are particularly concerned about the situation among
the small and medium-sized banks, which are most heavily exposed
to the commercial real estate sector,” he told reporters in a
press briefing yesterday.  
 The IMF said second-quarter results underscore the balance-
sheet risks identified by the stress tests. “Initial releases
of second-quarter earnings results have been disappointing,”
the IMF report said.  
 Real Estate  
 The IMF said about $1.4 trillion of commercial real estate
loans will mature from 2010 to 2014, almost half of which are
already “seriously delinquent,” with payments 90 days or more
past due, or “underwater,” with loan values exceeding property
values. Home prices are another concern, as are the spillover
effects if problems intensify as they spread among institutions.  
 U.S. regulators will need to step up their efforts to
coordinate oversight after the Dodd-Frank legislation that
President  Barack Obama  signed this month, the IMF said. The
report generally praised the new law, while also flagging
ongoing concerns.  
 “In some areas we were a little bit disappointed,” Towe
said. “We see the system of regulatory agencies as still
remaining exceptionally complex with a very large number of
agencies involved and we would have preferred to have seen a
much more bold streamlining.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net 
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The IMF stopped short of recommending recapitalizing  
                       
                         
                           Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.S. President Barack Obama. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.S. President Barack Obama. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Christopher Towe, deputy director of monetary and capital markets at the International Monetary Fund, discusses the outlook for the U.S. financial system.
     The U.S. financial system remains fragile and banks subjected to additional economic stress might need as much as $76 billion in capital, according to the results of IMF stress tests. The findings, released today as part of a broader IMF report on the U.S. financial system, suggested that while the nation’s banking system is stable, it remains vulnerable. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
