-- Irish Central Bank Says Euro-Region Recovery May `Moderate' in Second Half
-- Simone Meier
-- 2010-07-30T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/irish-central-bank-says-euro-region-recovery-may-moderate-in-second-half.html

          
          
             The  euro-region recovery  may
“moderate somewhat” in the second half of the year as
governments withdraw stimulus measures and cut spending to
reduce budget deficits, Ireland’s central bank said.  
 “The euro-area recovery is expected to continue, but is
now likely to occur at a more gradual pace than was
anticipated” in April, the Dublin-based central bank led by
 Patrick Honohan  said in its quarterly report published today.
“This primarily reflects the negative short-term impact of
fiscal consolidation.”  
 European governments from Ireland to Spain have been forced
to step up budget cuts after the Greek fiscal crisis eroded
investor confidence and pushed up borrowing costs. The euro-
region economy may only show a “somewhat uneven” recovery, the
Irish central bank said, echoing remarks by European Central
Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  earlier this month.  
 While a recovery in exports is expected to continue,
domestic activity “appears likely to remain subdued,”
according to the report. Governments’ deficit-reduction plans
could curb demand, hurting a recovery, it said.  
 Still the “long-term benefits of such measures are
expected to outweigh the short-run costs,” the central bank
said.  
 “The risks to the growth outlook over the medium term
appear on the downside, given the potential for the
consolidation to have a bigger-than-expected impact on growth in
both the euro area and the global economy more generally,” the
central bank said. “The former could result in an even weaker
expansion in domestic demand, while the latter could see a
slower recovery in foreign demand.”  
 The ECB will hold its next monetary policy meeting on Aug.
5 in Frankfurt.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        