-- Hitachi Beats First-Quarter Profit Estimates, Raises First-Half Forecast
-- Mikako Nakajima
-- 2010-07-30T09:27:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/hitachi-beats-first-quarter-profit-estimates-raises-first-half-forecasts.html

          
          
             Hitachi Ltd. , Japan’s No. 3
company by sales, had a third straight quarter of profit as
economic growth in China and the U.S. and fueled demand for
products including auto parts and hydraulic excavators.  
 Net income  at the Tokyo-based  maker  of nuclear power
plants, construction machinery, factory equipment and home
appliances was 86.1 billion yen ($996 million) in the three
months ended June 30, compared with an 82.7 billion yen loss
a year earlier, the company said today in a statement. That’s
almost four times the 23 billion yen profit average of three
analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Hitachi, which hasn’t made an annual profit since the
year to March 2006, is benefiting from a reorganization last
year that made five subsidiaries fully owned and scaled back
money-losing television and semiconductor operations. All 10
of the company’s  divisions  were profitable, including the
social infrastructure and IT units, where sales declined.  
 “They’ve toned down the loss-making businesses,” said
 David Rubenstein , a Tokyo-base analyst at MF Global Ltd.
“These are positive, small steps for them.”  
 Hitachi  fell 2 percent to close at 352 yen on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange before the announcement. Shares of the company
have gained 24 percent this year, outperforming the benchmark
 Nikkei 225 Stock Average  which declined 9.6 percent.  
 Auto, Electronic Capex  
 Higher capital spending by electronics manufacturers and
chipmakers contributed to a 23 percent increase in sales at
the electronics devices division, Hitachi said. Revenue at
the automotive systems division rose 38 percent, while sales
at the materials division climbed 26 percent.  
 First-quarter operating profit was 88.5 billion yen,
compared with a loss of 50.6 billion yen a year earlier, the
company said. Sales rose 14 percent to 2.15 trillion yen, led
by a 41 percent increase in revenue from Asia.  
 “Sales of elevators and construction equipment in Asia,
especially China, were solid,” executive vice president
 Takashi Miyoshi  told reporters today in Tokyo. “Electronic
components beat our target.”  
 The company raised its forecast for first-half net
income by 82 percent to 100 billion yen, while leaving its
estimate for the 12 months ending March 2011 unchanged.  
 “Europe’s debt crisis is a concern and government
stimulus packages around the world are phasing out,” Miyoshi
said. “It’s unclear whether conditions are going to continue
to improve.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Clenfield  in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net ;
 Mikako Nakajima  in Tokyo at 
 mikako@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        