-- Mitsubishi UFJ, Japanese Banks Beat Estimates on Declining Bad-Loans Costs
-- Takako Taniguchi
-- 2010-07-30T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/mitsubishi-ufj-japanese-banks-beat-estimates-on-declining-bad-loans-costs.html

          
          
             Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.,
Japan’s biggest lender, led the nation’s banks in beating
analysts’ profit estimates this week as bad loan costs fell and
business confidence rose to a two-year high.  
  Net income  more than doubled to 166.3 billion yen ($1.9
billion) at Mitsubishi UFJ, while  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. 
returned to profit, and earnings at Sumitomo Mitsui Financial
Group Inc. tripled. Bond trading also rose at the three banks.  
 Japanese corporate bankruptcies fell for an 11th straight
month in June as the world’s second-biggest economy recovers and
confidence improves among the nation’s manufacturers. The
decline in corporate failures allowed banks to bolster profits,
offsetting a decline in loan income after debt markets thawed.  
 “The bottom line at banks is being enhanced by the massive
swing factors of bond-related gains and lower provisions,” said
 Ismael Pili , a Tokyo-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd.
“There is no loan growth and margins are under pressure, so
although there’s earnings growth it’s of an inferior kind.”  
 Bad-loan costs dropped the most at Mizuho, falling by 95
percent to 3.7 billion yen, as banking units wrote back earlier
provisions. Charges at Mitsubishi UFJ dropped 63 percent and by
73 percent at Sumitomo Mitsui.  
 The government said on July 21 that the economy is
“picking up steadily” after  sentiment  among the nation’s
largest manufacturers rose to a two-year high in June, according
to the Bank of Japan’s Tankan survey. Corporate bankruptcies
fell by 19 percent last month from a year earlier, according to
data from Tokyo Shoko Research Ltd.  
 European Banks  
 European banks also posted improved earnings this week,
with  UBS AG , Switzerland’s biggest bank, and Deutsche Bank AG,
Germany’s largest, reporting second-quarter profits that
surpassed analysts’ estimates and helped drive financial shares
higher.  
 UBS had net income of 2.01 billion Swiss francs ($1.93
billion), its third straight profit, on a rebound at the
investment bank. Deutsche Bank said earnings rose 6.4 percent
from a year ago to 1.16 billion euros ($1.51 billion), buoyed by
retail and transaction banking.  
 The average estimate for Mitsubishi UFJ’s profit was 125
billion yen, 126 billion yen for Mizuho, and 110 billion yen for
Sumitomo Mitsui. Mitsubishi UFJ maintained its 400 billion yen
profit target for this year, while  Mizuho  is targeting 430
billion yen and Sumitomo Mitsui 340 billion yen.  
 “We’ll likely see a weak improvement in earnings at banks
this year rather than a real recovery,” said  Chikako Horiuchi ,
a Tokyo-based analyst with Fitch Ratings Ltd.  
 U.S. Acquisitions  
 Mitsubishi UFJ and  Sumitomo Mitsui  are turning to U.S. bank
acquisitions to help offset declines in domestic borrowing. Net
interest income, comprised mainly of lending returns, fell at
the two banks and at Mizuho, which is looking to Asia for
expansion.  
 Japanese lending fell 2.1 percent, a seventh straight
month, in June to a six-year low, according to the Bank of
Japan, as companies issued more bonds and used available cash
for growth.  
 Mitsubishi UFJ may spend more than 500 billion yen to
 acquire  more U.S. banks,  Tatsuo Tanaka , deputy president of the
group’s main banking unit said earlier this month.  
 Sumitomo Mitsui may spend as much as $5 billion to buy a
stake in a U.S. bank in the next three years,  Hiroshi Minoura ,
head of international banking at the company’s Sumitomo Mitsui
Banking Corp. unit, said earlier this month. The bank agreed to
invest about $295 million in India’s Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd.
last month.  
 The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision softened some of
its proposed capital rules this week, further buoying bank
stocks. The panel agreed to allow certain assets, including
deferred tax assets, to count as capital.  
 “Changes in the restrictions by the Basel Committee will
boost the common equity capital ratio by about 1 percent at
Japanese mega banks,” according to  Shinichi Ina , a Tokyo-based
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in a report July 27.
“Relaxation of the regulations will remove remaining concerns
about equity capital increases.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Tokyo at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        