-- Mitsubishi UFJ Quarterly Profit More Than Doubles as Bad-Loan Costs Fall
-- Finbarr Flynn
-- 2010-07-30T07:47:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/mitsubishi-ufj-quarterly-profit-more-than-doubles-as-bad-loan-costs-fall.html

          
          
             Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.,
Japan’s biggest bank by market value, reported first-quarter
profit that more than doubled, beating analysts’ estimates as
bad loan charges fell and bond trading increased.  
  Net income  rose to 166.3 billion yen ($1.9 billion) for the
three months ended June 30 from 75.9 billion yen a year earlier,
the Tokyo-based bank said today. The average of five estimates
from analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for earnings of 125
billion yen.  
 Japanese corporate bankruptcies fell for an 11th straight
month in June as the world’s second-biggest economy recovers and
confidence improves among the nation’s manufacturers. The
decline in corporate failures helped  Mitsubishi UFJ  cut bad-loan
provisions and charges by 63 percent during the  quarter.  
 “Bad loan costs are trending down, helping to boost banks’
profits,” said  Takehito Yamanaka , a Tokyo-based analyst at MF
Global FXA Securities Ltd. before today’s earnings announcement.
“I’m relatively bullish about Japan’s three big banks.”  
 Mitsubishi UFJ maintained its 400 billion yen profit target
for this year and joined rivals  Mizuho Financial Group Inc.  and
 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc.  in posting improved
earnings. Sumitomo Mitsui’s first quarter profit tripled to
211.8 billion yen, while Mizuho returned to profit after hedging
losses a year earlier.  
 Tankan Survey  
 The government said on July 21 that the economy is
“picking up steadily” after  sentiment  among the nation’s
largest manufacturers rose to a two-year high in June, according
to the Bank of Japan’s Tankan survey. Corporate bankruptcies
fell by 19 percent last month from a year earlier, according to
data from Tokyo Shoko Research Ltd.  
 Mitsubishi UFJ  fell  0.9 percent to 429 yen on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange before today’s earnings announcement. The shares
have fallen 5.1 percent this year.  
 Bad-loan costs at Mitsubishi UFJ fell to 70.3 billion yen
in the first quarter from 189.8 billion yen a year earlier. Bond
trading income rose to 78.3 billion yen from 17.8 billion yen a
year earlier.  
 While economic improvement has helped lower loan defaults
and bad-loan provisions at Japanese banks, declines in domestic
borrowing are forcing Mitsubishi UFJ and rivals including
 Sumitomo Mitsui  to seek U.S. bank acquisitions for profit growth.  
 Japanese lending fell 2.1 percent, a seventh straight month,
in June to a six-year low, according to the Bank of Japan, as
companies issued more bonds and used available cash for growth.  
 U.S. Acquisitions  
 Mitsubishi UFJ may spend more than 500 billion yen to
 acquire  more U.S. banks,  Tatsuo Tanaka , deputy president of the
group’s main banking unit said earlier this month. The bank’s
San Francisco-based UnionBanCal Corp. unit acquired Washington-
based Frontier Bank and California’s Tamalpais Bank in
agreements with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. in April.  
 Mitsubishi UFJ  raised  1.03 trillion yen in a stock sale in
December to replenish capital as global regulators demand banks
hold more capital.  
 “We’ll likely see a weak improvement in earnings at banks
this year rather than a real recovery,” said  Chikako Horiuchi ,
a Tokyo-based analyst with Fitch Ratings Ltd. “Bank forecasts
aren’t that high and their lending business will remain weak.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Tokyo at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        