-- Japan's Bonds Complete Four-Month Gain on Rising Jobless Rate, Deflation
-- Masaki Kondo
-- 2010-07-30T22:14:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/japan-s-bonds-complete-four-month-gain-on-rising-jobless-rate-deflation.html

          
          
             Japanese  bonds  gained for a fourth
month as government reports showing lingering deflation and a
rising jobless rate increased demand for the relative safety of
government debt.  
 Benchmark futures climbed toward a seven-year high as
government reports showed consumer prices fell for a 16th month
in June and the jobless rate unexpectedly increased. A group of
ruling-party lawmakers said yesterday they will press the prime
minister to do more to tackle deflation, which enhances the
purchasing power of the fixed payments from debt.  
 “I don’t think there will be a major change in Japan’s
deflationary environment,” said  Hisakazu Amano , who helps
oversee about $18 billion at T&D Asset Management Co. in Tokyo.
“Yields may rebound temporarily, but there seems to be no
reason for yields to enter an upward trend.”  
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond fell 1.5 basis
points this month to 1.07 percent at Japan Bond Trading Co., the
nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 1.1 percent
security due June 2020 closed yesterday at 100.267 yen.  
 Ten-year bond futures for September delivery gained 0.18
this month to 141.84 on the Tokyo Stock Exchange after climbing
to 142.08 on July 22, the highest since August 2003.  
 Bonds rallied yesterday after the statistics bureau said
Japan’s  unemployment rate  climbed to a seven-month high of 5.3
percent in June from 5.2 percent the previous month. Factory
output slid 1.5 percent from May.  Consumer prices  excluding
fresh food declined 1 percent from a year earlier.  
 ‘Lack of Investment’  
 “The biggest reason for deflation is a lack of investment
opportunities for businesses,” T&D’s Amano said. “The
situation won’t improve anytime soon regardless of what measures
the central bank or government take.”  
 A group of  Democratic Party of Japan  legislators led by  Jin Matsubara  will present their demands to Finance Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda , they said at a meeting in Tokyo. Their proposals
include pushing the Bank of Japan to buy long-term government
bonds and follow a government policy of setting an inflation
target of 2 percent to 3 percent.  
 Bonds also advanced as the Federal Reserve’s Beige Book
business survey said growth was slowing in some areas of the
country. The U.S. is closer to “Japanese-style outcome,”
Federal
Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said in a
research paper released July 29.  
 “The decline in Japanese bond yields will continue because
of concern about a slowdown in the U.S. economy,” said  Kazuya Ito , a fund manager in Tokyo at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., a
unit of Japan’s second-largest brokerage.  
 The U.S. was Japan’s second-biggest export market after
China by the value of products shipped during the first half of
2010, according to the Ministry of Finance.  
 Ten-year yields may fall as low as 0.9 percent in the three
months to Oct. 31, Mizuho Securities Co. forecast in a report
yesterday. Investors would get a 1.7 percent return should
yields drop to that level at the end of October, according to
Bloomberg calculations.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        