-- Industrial Production Unexpectedly Drops 1.5%, Japan Jobless Rate Climbs
-- Keiko Ujikane
-- 2010-07-30T00:02:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/japan-industrial-output-unexpectedly-fell-1-5-in-june-from-previous-month.html

          
          
             Japan’s industrial  production  fell
unexpectedly in June and the unemployment rate climbed to a
seven-month high, signaling the nation’s export-led recovery is
losing momentum.  
 Factory   output  dropped 1.5 percent from May, when it gained
0.1 percent, the Trade Ministry said in Tokyo today. The median
estimate of 26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a
0.2 percent increase. The  jobless rate  rose to 5.3 percent, the
highest level since November, the statistics bureau said.  
 “Production will slow because exports are losing steam,”
 Hiroaki Muto , a senior economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo, said before the report. “Japan will
probably go into an economic lull next year, although it may
avoid a double-dip recession.”  
 The planned expiry of government incentives to purchase
cars may weigh on production just as slower growth in China and
the U.S. prompts companies to cut back. Exports, which
contributed the most to first-quarter growth, rose at the
slowest pace this year in June, a report showed this week.  
 Economic Minister  Satoshi Arai  and Trade Minister  Masayuki Naoshima  last week said the government hasn’t decided whether to
extend incentives to buy energy-efficient vehicles, which are
set to end in September. Separate measures to stimulate
purchases of electronics are scheduled to expire in December.  
 Automakers Scale Back  
 Automakers are already preparing to scale back in
anticipation of an end to the stimulus.  
 Nissan said this week that it plans to cut production in
Japan by about 20 percent in October from September’s planned
level.  Toyota Motor Corp.  will also pare output by 20 percent in
October, the Yomiuri newspaper reported on July 21. Honda Motor
Co. will cut domestic production by 3.5 percent in October from
the September level, it said yesterday.  
 The moderation of production is partly because of technical
reasons related to seasonal adjustments, said Sumitomo Mitsui’s
Muto. A sharp rebound last year following the global financial
crisis is being considered as a seasonal upward bias under the
current method, weighing on this year’s figures, Muto said.  
 The manufacturing slowdown will cool  economic growth  rather
than derail it, analysts say. Japan’s expansion slowed to an
annual 1.9 percent pace in the second quarter from the first
quarter’s 5 percent, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 Corporate profits continue to recover, with  Canon Inc. ,
Toshiba Corp.,  Sony Corp.  and Elpida Memory Inc. among companies
that reported better quarterly earnings this week. Sony raised
its full-year net income forecast by 20 percent to 60 billion
yen ($690 million) yesterday after TV sales picked up.  
 Bank of Japan board member  Hidetoshi Kamezaki  this week
repeated the central bank’s view that the economy is likely to
continue to recover gradually.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A worker assembles a Toyota Motor Corp. vehicle on the production line of the company's Tsutsumi plant in Toyota City, Aichi Prefecture, Japan. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
