-- Japan Growth to Slow as Unemployment Rises, Production Drops
-- Mayumi Otsuma
-- 2010-07-30T03:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/japan-s-unemployment-unexpectedly-rises-output-drops-in-sign-of-slowdown.html

          
          
             Japan’s unemployment unexpectedly
rose for a fourth straight month and industrial production fell
the most in more than a year, signaling the economic expansion
is poised to slow.  
 The  jobless rate  climbed to a seven-month high of 5.3
percent in June, a statistics bureau report showed today in
Tokyo. Factory  output  slid 1.5 percent from May, compared with
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists
for a 0.2 percent gain. Meantime,  consumer prices  excluding
fresh food declined 1 percent from a year before.  
 Today’s data may make it tougher for Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  to build support for his plans to rein in the government’s
budget deficit as parliament gathers for the first session
since he took office. The Bank of Japan may also come under
increased pressure to step up monetary stimulus as a rising yen
threatens to contribute to deflation.  
 “We have to start worry about a slowdown,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo.
“Kan will be forced to shelve pursuit of fiscal consolidation
and the Bank of Japan will also come under more pressure to
take additional monetary policy action.”  
 The yen climbed and stocks fell as today’s figures
signaled a diminishing investor appetite for risk. The  Nikkei
225 Stock Average  dropped 1.5 percent to 9,550.18 at the
morning close in Tokyo. The yen strengthened to 86.36 per
dollar, after reaching 86.25, the highest level since Dec. 1.  
 Earnings Evidence  
 The slump in Japan’s production is a contrast with reports
from several of the nation’s companies that indicated an
improved outlook.  Sony Corp.  and Panasonic Corp., the world’s
largest consumer-electronics makers, signaled Japanese
technology companies are withstanding slowing European demand
and the stronger yen after raising their earnings forecasts.
Fujitsu Corp. also raised its profit projections.  
 Household spending rose 0.5 percent in June from a year
before, snapping a two-month decline, a separate report showed
today. The increase in the jobless rate last month came in part
as the number of people out of the labor force declined,
indicating more people are starting to look for work.  
 “We should brace for the economy falling into a soft
patch toward the first quarter of next year,” said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , a senior economist at Itochu Corp. in Tokyo. “Kan
will have to tread a very delicate line in handling economic
policies and fiscal consolidation.”  
 Pressure on Kan  
 A group of ruling-party lawmakers said today they will
press Kan to shift his focus to growth from fiscal restraint
and urge the central bank to do more to tackle deflation. Their
proposals include pushing the Bank of Japan to buy long-term
government bonds and target inflation of 2 percent to 3 percent.  
 Economy Minister  Satoshi Arai  told reporters after today’s
reports that the economy is “gradually recovering” and
deflation is easing “little by little.” The central bank and
the government are working together to overcome falling prices,
he added, declining to comment on an inflation target.  
 Japan’s expansion slowed to an annual 1.9 percent pace in
the second quarter from the first quarter’s 5 percent,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  
 A separate report today indicated job prospects are
improving. The  job-to-applicant ratio  rose to 0.52 in June,
meaning there are 52 job openings for every 100 candidates, the
most since March 2009.  
 Carmakers Cut Back  
 Automakers and electronics manufacturers led the drop in
production, which was the steepest since February 2009, as
demand from abroad weakened.  Exports  grew at the slowest pace
this year in June, a report showed this week.  
 Manufacturers surveyed by the Trade Ministry plan to cut
output by 0.2 percent in July and increase it by 2 percent in
August. The ministry kept its view that production is
rebounding, while adding that it is “pausing in some areas.”
Output rose 1.4 percent in the three months to June, the
slowest gain since it fell in the first quarter of 2009.  
 The planned expiry of government incentives to purchase
cars may weigh on manufacturing just as growth in China and the
U.S. slows. Trade Minister  Masayuki Naoshima  said today that
the government will let the initiative end in September as
scheduled, Kyodo News reported. Japan’s biggest carmakers are
already preparing to scale back as a result.  
 “Production will slow because exports are losing steam,”
said  Hiroaki Muto , a senior economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo. “Japan will probably go into an
economic lull next year, although it may avoid a double-dip
recession.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Pedestrians walk through a street in Tokyo, Japan, on Wednesday, July 14, 2010. Photographer: Kiyoshi Ota/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
