-- JCDecaux Focuses on Emerging Market Growth, Eyes Acquisitions
-- Kristen Schweizer
-- 2010-07-30T09:38:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/jcdecaux-focuses-on-emerging-market-expansion-eyes-possible-acquisitions.html

          
          
             JCDecaux SA , the world’s second-
largest seller of outdoor ads, wants to expand in the second
half through contracts in India and the Middle East and by
buying companies burdened with debt.  
 The French advertiser  is a “natural consolidator” in its
industry, Co-Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Francois Decaux  said
in an interview today. The company is seeking to acquire
“financially stretched” companies and aims to grow by winning
contracts in emerging markets, which account for 22 percent of
its revenue, he said.  
 The company has spent the past year buying the remaining
assets of German outdoor advertiser Wall AG and taking over U.K.
rival Titan Outdoor after it was forced into administration.
Decaux, who runs the company with his brother Jean-Charles, has
also said he’d buy the assets of U.S. competitors  Clear Channel
Outdoor Holdings Inc.  and CBS Outdoor Inc. for the right price.  
 JCDecaux has 600 million euros ($782 million) of unused
credit at 20 basis points of the London interbank offered rate.  
 Jean-Francois Decaux said that while the company is eying
acquisitions, “there are no deals that we must do” as the
business has “a track record of not looking at assets that are
overpriced.”  
 The company, based in Neuilly-sur-Seine outside Paris,
today said first-half profit soared as advertising rebounded in
France, the U.K. and China and sales from new assets added to
earnings.  
 Advertising Rebound  
 JCDecaux’s  net income  rose to 65 million euros from 4.4
million euros a year earlier. Earnings before interest and taxes
jumped to 113.7 million euros from 49.5 million euros, beating
an average estimate of 106 million euros in a Bloomberg survey.
Sales rose 20 percent to 1.1 billion euros.  
 The company said marketers boosted ad spending in the first
half and it forecast third-quarter growth in line with the
second quarter, despite less favorable comparables. Continuing
cost cuts and reduced spending are expected to “sustain strong
free cash flow generation,” the company said.  
 “Big branding campaigns are back on track and we
benefitted from that as most sectors increased their spending,”
Jean-Francois Decaux said today.  
 Key accounts for JCDecaux include Marks & Spencer Group Plc
and British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc in the U.K. and Verizon
Communications Inc. in the U.S.  
 JCDecaux shares rose 0.6 percent to 19.985 euros as of
11:34 a.m. in Paris trading.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Schweizer  in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        