-- Koruna May Erase Most of July Gain After Best Month in a Year, BNP Says
-- Krystof Chamonikolas
-- 2010-07-30T14:25:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/koruna-may-erase-most-of-july-gain-after-best-month-in-a-year-bnp-says.html

          
          
             The Czech koruna may erase more than
a half of its July gain against the euro in the next two weeks
as the central bank will probably try to talk down the currency
to protect the export-led recovery, according to  BNP Paribas SA .  
 The world’s best-performing currency this month may weaken
to 25.50 per euro from 24.79 today, BNP Paribas analyst
 Elisabeth Gruie  said by phone from London. This would represent
a 2.8 percent decline after the koruna strengthened 3.6 percent
this month, its biggest monthly rally in a year.  
 Policy makers may seek to weaken the koruna at their Aug. 5
meeting on concern that its strength will hurt exporters and may
lead to excessive disinflation, Gruie said. Exports, including
cars from the Czech units of Volkswagen AG and Hyundai Motor
Co., account for 70 percent of the Czech economy, which the
Finance Ministry forecasts will grow 1.6 percent this year after
shrinking 4.1 percent in 2009.  
 “Speculation over a rate cut could rise in light of the
surge in the koruna,” Gruie wrote in a report earlier today.
“While we do not expect them to cut rates next Thursday, at
least verbal intervention looks increasingly likely.”  
 All analysts in a Bloomberg survey expect the main interest
rate will stay at the record low of 0.75 percent. The inflation
rate was 1.2 percent in May, at the lower end of the 1 percent
to 3 percent central bank target range.  
 The koruna reached its strongest level since 2008 two days
ago, fueled by the government’s promise to cut its budget
deficit and a rally in emerging-markets assets. The MSCI
Emerging Markets Index of equities climbed for eight straight
days before dropping today and is up 7.5 percent this month, its
best since March.  
 ‘Surprised’  
 “There are some businesses clearly suffering from the
move” in the koruna exchange rate, Gruie said.  
 Policy makers forecast the koruna will trade at an average
rate of 25.1 per euro in the second half of this year, according
to data on the central bank’s  website .  
 “We are surprised that central bankers are remaining
silent,” economist  Jan Vejmelek  at  Komercni Banka AS , the
Prague-based unit of  Societe Generale SA , wrote in a report
today. “We will hear their comment on Thursday at the latest. A
verbal intervention against the strong koruna can be expected.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        