-- Kumba Says ArcelorMittal Price Doesn't Apply to Phoenix Expansion Project
-- Ron Derby
-- 2010-07-30T10:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/kumba-says-arcelormittal-price-doesn-t-apply-to-phoenix-expansion-project.html

          
          
             Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. , embroiled in a
dispute over the price of raw material it sells to  ArcelorMittal
South Africa Ltd. , said a 2001 accord setting out costs for its
steelmaking customer doesn’t extend to a planned mine expansion.  
 The contract for the Thabazimbi mine shouldn’t apply to the
Project Phoenix expansion plan, Kumba said. “Mittal made the
election not to participate in Project Phoenix,” the unit of
 Anglo America Plc.  said in an e-mailed response to questions.  
 Kumba, based in Pretoria, on March 1 canceled a nine-year-
old pact to supply ArcelorMittal South Africa, a unit of the
 world’s largest steelmaker , with ore from its Sishen mine in
Northern Cape province at cost plus 3 percent. The Thabazimbi
mine, in Limpopo, ships all of its ore to the metal producer at
the same rate. The expansion adds 20 years of life to the site.  
 “According to the agreement, it is the responsibility of
SIOC to extend the life of the mine for as long as possible,”
ArcelorMittal South Africa Chief Financial Officer Kobus
Verster, said in a text message today, referring to Kumba unit
Sishen Iron Ore Co. Ltd., which runs Sishen and Thabazimbi.  
 The steelmaker has rights within the entire contractually
specified Thabazimbi mining lease and there is still life in the
area, he said. ArcelorMittal South Africa is reviewing its
participation in the expansion, Chief Executive Officer
Nonkululeko Nyembezi-Heita said in Johannesburg on July 28.  
 Kumba planned Project Phoenix “at its own cost and for its
own benefit,” the mining company said, adding that ore from the
expansion will be sold at market prices. ArcelorMittal has a
deal with the current mine until its life ends in 2016, it said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        