-- Nebraska's Nelson Becomes First Democrat to Oppose Kagan for Supreme Court
-- Laura Litvan
-- 2010-07-30T22:40:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/nebraska-s-nelson-becomes-first-democrat-to-oppose-kagan-for-supreme-court.html

          
          
             Democratic Senator  Ben Nelson  of
Nebraska said he will vote against confirming  Elena Kagan  to the
 U.S. Supreme Court , becoming the first in his party to announce
opposition.  
 Also today, Senator  Judd Gregg  of New Hampshire said he
will vote for President  Barack Obama ’s nominee, the fifth
Republican to do so.  
 Nelson said he had heard “concerns” from people in
Nebraska about Kagan.  
 “Her lack of a judicial record makes it difficult for me
to discount the concerns raised by Nebraskans, or to reach a
level of comfort that these concerns are unfounded,” Nelson
said. “Therefore, I will not vote to confirm Ms. Kagan’s
nomination.”  
 Still, Nelson said he would oppose any filibuster of
Kagan’s nomination and favor allowing an “up or down vote.” It
takes 60 votes to force a final vote. With 59 votes controlled
by Democrats and five Republicans in support, Kagan’s nomination
would have enough to end a Republican filibuster.  
 In announcing his support for Kagan, Gregg said she “has
pledged that she will exercise judicial restraint and decide
each case that comes before her based on the law, with
objectivity and without regard to her personal views.”  
 “Ms. Kagan and I may have different political
philosophies, but I believe that the confirmation process should
be based on qualifications, not ideological litmus tests or
political affiliation,” Gregg said.  
 Republican Senators  Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina,
 Richard Lugar  of Indiana and  Susan Collins  and  Olympia Snowe  of
Maine also have announced their support for Kagan. The Senate
plans to vote on confirmation next week.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        