-- New Zealand's Second-Quarter Building Approvals Decline, Curbing Growth
-- Tracy Withers
-- 2010-07-30T00:22:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/new-zealand-s-second-quarter-building-approvals-decline-curbing-growth.html

          
          
             New Zealand’s home-building
approvals declined in the second quarter, delaying a recovery in
residential construction and curbing economic growth.  
 Permits dropped 6.6 percent in the three months ended June
30 from the first quarter, when they fell 0.1 percent,
 Statistics New Zealand  said in Wellington today, citing
seasonally adjusted  figures . Excluding apartments, approvals
rose 0.7 percent.  
 Less construction, falling consumer spending and slower
immigration growth add to signs that New Zealand’s economic
recovery is weaker than expected. Central bank Governor  Alan Bollard  yesterday said households are “cautious” and the pace
of future interest-rate increases will likely be more moderate
than he previously indicated.  
 “We had been expecting a sluggish construction recovery,
but now we see more downside risks,” said  Philip Borkin ,
economist at Goldman Sachs JBWere Ltd. in Auckland. “The recent
disappointing consent numbers are just one piece in a list of
evidence that suggests the Reserve Bank should be removing
stimulus only gradually.”  
 New Zealand’s dollar was little changed after the report,
buying 72.46 U.S. cents at 11:45 a.m. in Wellington from 72.45
cents immediately before the release. The two-year swap rate
dropped to 3.98 percent, the lowest since September, extending
its largest weekly decline in nine months. The rate, a fixed
payment made to receive floating rates, is sensitive to central
bank monetary policy.  
 Interest Rates  
 Bollard yesterday raised the official cash rate to 3
percent from 2.75 percent. There is a 68 percent chance of
another quarter-point increase on Sept. 16, according to a
Credit Suisse  index  based on swaps trading.  
 House sales  fell for a third month in June and it took
longer to sell a property, according to Real Estate Institute
figures published July 14. A separate report the same day showed
retail sales excluding vehicles and fuel declined for a second
month in May.  
 Annual immigration growth slowed in June for a fifth
straight month, according to government figures released July 21.
Bollard yesterday said the decline will “act to further dampen
consumer spending” and domestic demand.  
 In June,  approvals  rose 3.5 percent following a 9.5 percent
decline in May, today’s report showed. Still, the underlying
trend in approvals is rising at about 0.6 percent a month, less
than the pace in May, the statistics agency said.  
 Economists prefer to look at figures excluding apartments,
because apartment approvals are volatile. There were 57 consents
for apartments in June, up from 27 in May, the agency said.  
 Excluding apartments, approvals rose 1.7 percent in June
following a 10 percent slump in May.  
 The value of approvals for home building and renovations
increased 32 percent in June from the year-earlier month to
NZ$508 million ($368 million), today’s report showed.  
 The value of non-residential building approvals in June
slumped 26 percent to NZ$228 million. The quarterly trend series
for non-residential approvals dropped 15 percent in the three
months ended June 30 to a six-year low.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        