-- New York City Subway Platforms to Go Wireless in Revived Accord
-- Amy Thomson
-- 2010-07-30T14:49:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/new-york-city-subway-stations-to-get-mobile-phone-service-in-revived-pact.html

          
          
             After an almost three-year delay,
work is set to begin on a $200 million plan to bring mobile-
phone and Wi-Fi service to New York’s subway stations.  
 The project was rejuvenated after the group that won the
contract secured new financing from an Australian mobile-
infrastructure operator, said  Kevin Ortiz , a spokesman for New
York City Transit.  
 As part of the deal,  Broadcast Australia  took a majority
stake in Transit Wireless LLC, the group of wireless and
construction companies that was awarded the subway contract in
2007 and promised New York City Transit about $46 million over
10 years. The system will give New York’s commuters a service
people in Singapore, Berlin and Tokyo have had for years.  
 “We’ve been scanning for opportunities like this one,”
said  Chris Jaeger , managing director of international business
for Broadcast Australia. “The project fits very neatly with our
business aspirations.” Broadcast Australia’s subsidiaries
include  Radio Frequency Engineering Ltd. , which oversaw the
wireless retrofitting of Hong Kong’s subway system.  
 Work on the  New York  project stalled before a single
station was outfitted as Transit Wireless ran into financing
troubles during the recession. Ortiz said New York City Transit
gave Transit Wireless the go-ahead this month because of
Broadcast Australia’s financial commitment.  
 Under the accord,  Transit Wireless  was given two years to
wire six subterranean stations near 14th Street on Manhattan’s
West Side to transmit mobile-phone signals to passengers on the
platform. It was afforded as many as four more years to complete
the remaining 271 underground stations.  
 Charging Verizon, AT&T  
 Transit Wireless will begin installing smoke detector-size
antennas in six stations within the next two months, said  Alex Mashinsky , chief executive officer of  Q-Wireless Inc. , one of
the companies participating in the group. Stations could be
completed at a rate of 10 to 15 per month, he said.  
 The project will cost about $200 million to complete, not
including the $46 million Transit Wireless will have to pay the
transit authority, Mashinsky said.  
 Transit Wireless has already completed much of the planning
work, including blueprints and surveying work, said Jaeger.  
 Once the project is done, riders will have mobile service
on the platform, mezzanines and portions of the tunnels, Jaeger
said. Carriers such as  AT&T Inc. , Verizon Wireless and  Sprint
Nextel Corp.  would pay Transit Wireless to use its network.  
 The first six stations include those for several trains
along 14th Street at Sixth, Seventh and Eighth Avenues and at
23rd Street and Eighth Avenue, Ortiz said.  
 Budget Gap  
 The revenue from the project would come at a welcome time
for New York. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, the New
York state agency that runs the city’s subways, buses, commuter
rails and some bridges and tunnels, has been cutting service and
paring jobs to help close a budget gap of more than $900 million
this year. The agency is considering a proposal to raise monthly
subway and bus fares by at least $10 to help raise cash.  
 Jaeger declined to say what Chatswood, Australia-based
Broadcast Australia’s financial or workforce commitments were.  
 The work on the subway system wouldn’t interfere with
regular train service because it’s limited to the platforms,
Jaeger said.  
 He said he hoped to arrange for Transit Wireless to wire
the subway tunnels for full service too, though there are no
immediate plans to do so.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Greg Bensinger  in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net ;
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The New York subway  
                       
                         
                           Ramin Talaie/Bloomberg News 
                         
                         A commuter exits a "W" line train in the 23rd Street subway station in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A commuter exits a "W" line train in the 23rd Street subway station in New York. Photographer: Ramin Talaie/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
