-- New Jersey May Stop Using Advisers for Bond Sales, Christie's Office Says
-- Dunstan McNichol
-- 2010-07-30T19:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/new-jersey-considers-handling-future-bond-sales-without-financial-advisers.html

          
          
             New Jersey , the third-most indebted
U.S. state, is considering handling future bond sales without
financial advisers, Governor  Chris Christie ’s office said.  
 The proposal would put New Jersey in the minority of long-
term municipal-bond issuers, based on statistics published by
the Bond Buyer newspaper. Seventy-seven percent, or $314
billion, of the $406 billion of debt issued with maturities 13
months or longer had financial advisers, the data show.  
 Municipal borrowers use outside financial advisers to help
determine the best structure and timing for sales and to help
prepare presentations to credit-rating firms. Christie’s study
of whether state Treasury Department staff should do that work
comes four months after his administration questioned $1.2
million in payments the New Jersey Turnpike Authority made to
its financial adviser,  NW Financial Group LLC , last year.  
 NW Financial, of Jersey City, is paid 50 cents per $1,000
of bonds issued in which it acts as adviser, records of its
contract obtained by Bloomberg show. At that rate, the firm
would have been paid $600,000 if it had been the adviser for
$1.2 billion of bonds sold by New Jersey’s Transportation Trust
Fund Authority last year. That authority paid its adviser, First
Southwest Co. of Dallas, $125,000, according to state records.  
 ‘Breadth and Depth’  
 NW’s principal,  Dennis Enright , is lobbying to stay on as
the turnpike authority’s adviser, and has offered to cut his fee
to $125,000, the same amount paid to First Southwest, according
to a July 22 letter he wrote to Deborah Gramiccioni, director of
Christie’s unit that oversees all state authorities.  
 “Although the state has experienced public finance
professionals on its staff, they are not exposed to the breadth
and depth of deal flow that an experienced financial advisory
firm sees every week,” Enright said in the letter, a copy of
which was obtained by Bloomberg News. “This additional insight
into the market allows for tighter negotiation of rates and
terms that translate into lower borrowing costs for the state.”  
 Kevin Roberts, a spokesman for Christie, confirmed the
authenticity of Enright’s letter.  
 Robin Prunty , managing director at Standard & Poor’s in New
York, said Florida and Ohio are among states that have issued
debt without advisers. “There are many states that handle it
internally,” she said in a telephone interview today.  
 Enright’s firm ranked 13th in the U.S. by volume among
financial advisers on long-term issues last year, the Bond Buyer
statistics show.  
 Since 2002  
 Enright didn’t return telephone messages left at his office
and on his mobile phone July 29, and hung up when reached on his
cell phone that day.  Diane Scaccetti , executive director of the
turnpike authority, declined to comment on a series of questions
regarding Enright’s letter in a telephone interview July 29.  
 Enright, a Democratic campaign contributor, has been the
turnpike authority’s financial adviser since 2002. The authority
operates the 148-mile (238-kilometer) New Jersey Turnpike and
the 173-mile Garden State Parkway that stretches from Cape May
to the New York state line.  
 “This isn’t about Enright; this is more about the state
trying to save money -- save millions of dollars -- wherever
they can,” state Transportation Commissioner James Simpson, a
member of the turnpike authority board, said in an interview
today at a press conference in Pennsylvania. “I have all the
confidence in the world in our treasurer.”  
 The turnpike authority plans to issue $2 billion in revenue
bonds over the next 12 to 18 months, according to a  request for
proposals  for underwriters the authority issued this month. That
level of work would generate $1 million in fees for NW under the
terms of its three-year contract that the authority approved in
March 2009, when Democrat  Jon Corzine  was governor. Christie
ousted Corzine in November’s election and took office Jan. 19.  
 State Costs  
 Enright and NW’s officers have contributed more than
$250,000 to New Jersey political campaigns over the past four
years, according to the firm’s filings with the New Jersey
Election Law Enforcement Commission and the Alexandria,
Virginia-based  Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board , which
regulates the state- and local-government bond industry.  
 Christie, 47, slashed state spending to close a record
$10.7 billion deficit in his budget for the fiscal year that
began July 1. He may encounter a $10.5 billion gap next year,
according to a projection this month from the non-partisan
Office of Legislative Services.  
 “The governor and his administration as a whole continue
to examine every area of state spending where we can save money
and find greater efficiency,” Roberts said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. “To that end, we are evaluating the
feasibility of reducing or discontinuing the use of outside
financial advisers who contract with the state.”  
 Enright collected $1.2 million in fees from the turnpike
authority last year, for helping issue $2.5 billion in bonds,
state records show.  California  paid its adviser, Public
Resources Advisory Group, $205,558 on a $6.85 billion bond deal
last year, according to  Tom Dresslar , spokesman for California
Treasurer  Bill Lockyer .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Chris Christie  
                       
                         
                           Jin Lee/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Chris Christie, governor of New Jersey, speaks during an interview in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Chris Christie, governor of New Jersey, speaks during an interview in New York. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
