-- New York City Offers Build America Bonds as 2010 Sales Pace $100 Billion
-- Esme E. Deprez
-- 2010-07-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/new-york-city-offers-build-america-bonds-as-2010-sales-pace-100-billion.html

          
          
             New York City will sell $470 million
of Build America Bonds next week with the amount of the
federally subsidized securities issued on pace to total $165
billion by year-end, when the program is set to expire.  
 The city’s  Transitional Finance Authority  plans to sell the
taxable debt during two days beginning Aug. 2. It will also
offer $155 million of tax-exempts and $125 million of federally
subsidized taxable school bonds, said the senior underwriter,
 Citigroup Inc.  Investor demand at a $963 million sale by the
third-largest U.S. municipal borrower on July 27 helped cut the
city’s interest cost by 11 percent.  
 Build America Bonds became the fastest-growing part of the
$2.8 trillion municipal bond market after they were created last
year in President Barack Obama’s economic-stimulus package. More
than $124 billion of the securities have been sold so far,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The total will reach
$165 billion by year-end, said independent researcher
CreditSights Inc., as borrowers come to market before the
program is scheduled to cease.  
 “The continued volume of issuance augurs well for the
sector’s ongoing growth,” Louise Portle and  Isaac Codrey  wrote
in a report released yesterday. The analysts didn’t return e-
mails seeking additional comment.  
 The federal government pays 35 percent of the interest cost
of Build Americas, saving states and cities money on public
works projects like bridges and roads. The subsidy helps issuers
offer higher yields on the taxables than on tax-exempt debt,
making them attractive to international investors and others who
aren’t seeking tax shelters.  
 Yield Difference  
 The average Build America Bond  yields  6.03 percent,
according to a Wells Fargo index. That compares with 4.4 percent
for a top-rated tax-exempt bond maturing in 30 years, according
to Municipal Market Advisors Inc.  indexes . The  yield difference 
between the Build America yield index and the yield on 30-year
Treasuries is 1.95 percentage points, down from 2.07 points on
July 14.  
 The U.S. House of Representatives postponed a vote to
extend the Build America program for two years beyond its Dec.
31 expiration yesterday. It would be the third extension sought
by the House after the previous two were killed in the Senate.  
 New York’s $750 million sale is by the  Transitional Finance
Authority , which helps the most populous U.S. city raise funds
for capital projects. An additional $100 million of tax-exempt
indexed floating-rated bonds are expected to be sold to Wells
Fargo & Co., the  authority said .  
 The bonds offered are backed by a portion of local personal
income and sales taxes and are rated Aa1 by Moody’s Investors
Service, its second-highest grade.  
 Politically Insulated  
 “This is a dedicated revenue bond,” said  Howard Cure ,
director of municipal research at Evercore Wealth Management LLC
in New York, which oversees more than $1.1 billion of fixed-
income investments. “The political elements that the city and
state are grappling with are removed.”  
 The authority sold $342 million of Build America Bonds
maturing in 2040 in May. The longest maturity paid a coupon of
5.467 percent and priced to yield par, according to Bloomberg
data. The yield on  30-year U.S. Treasuries  on May 18, when the
city priced the bonds, was 4.23 percent.  
 Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  
 REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT , which manages mass-
transit operations in and around Denver, plans to issue $404
million in tax-exempt debt as early as next week. The bonds,
rated Baa3 by Moody’s, the lowest investment grade, will be used
for capital improvements including two rail lines. Barclays
Capital and Bank of America Merrill Lynch will market the
securities. (Added July 30)  
 MINNESOTA , which is delaying tax refunds for a second year
to conserve cash and balance its budget, plans to sell through
competitive bidding $865 million in general-obligation taxable
and tax-exempt bonds as soon as next week. The state is raising
$635 million for various purposes and $225 million for trunk
highways, both of which are tax-exempt, and $5 million of
taxable debt. The bonds are top-rated by Fitch and carry Moody’s
second-highest grade at Aa1. (Added July 29)  
 MIAMI-DADE COUNTY EXPRESSWAY AUTHORITY, which operates 32
miles of highways in Florida’s biggest county, will sell $350
million in tax-exempt debt as soon as next week for capital
projects and to add to debt-service reserves. The bonds, backed
by toll revenue, are rated A3 by Moody’s and A- by Fitch, the
fourth-lowest investment grades, and A by S&P, one level higher.
Underwriters led by Citigroup will market the securities. (Added
July 26)  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 Mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net ;
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        