-- Noble Group Said to Plan Sale of Bonds in U.S. Dollars as Soon as Today
-- Shelley Smith
-- 2010-07-30T04:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/noble-group-said-to-plan-sale-of-bonds-in-u-s-dollars-as-soon-as-today.html

          
          
             Noble Group Ltd. , the commodities
supplier backed by China’s sovereign wealth fund, plans to sell
five- and 10-year bonds denominated in U.S. dollars as soon as
today, according to a person familiar with the matter.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. is managing the two-part benchmark
sale, said the person, who asked not to be identified because
details are private. Benchmark typically means at least $500
million. The company has the right to buy the 10-year bonds back
after five years, according to the person.  
 The proceeds from the senior note sale will be used for
general corporate purposes, Noble said in a statement today to
the Singapore stock exchange, without providing further details.
The company requested a trading halt for its shares in Singapore
pending an announcement, according to an earlier release today.  
 Noble last sold bonds denominated in U.S. dollars in
October when it raised $1.25 billion of 10-year notes, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The extra yield investors
demanded to hold the 6.75 percent bonds rather than U.S.
Treasuries jumped 28 basis points today to 370 basis points, the
biggest increase since May 25, according to BNP Paribas prices.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Moody’s Investors Service is expected to rank the new debt
at Baa3, its lowest investment-grade rating. Standard & Poor’s
and Fitch Ratings will grade the debt an equivalent BBB-,
according to the person.  
 Noble stock has fallen 20 percent this year. Its shares
fell 2.33 percent to S$1.68 as of 11:40 a.m. in Singapore today.
The shares more than tripled last year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shelley Smith  in Hong Kong at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        