-- Nomura Profit Declines to 2.3 Billion Yen on Investment Banking, Trading
-- Takahiko Hyuga
-- 2010-07-30T08:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/nomura-profit-declines-to-2-3-billion-yen-on-investment-banking-trading.html

          
          
             Nomura Holdings Inc. , Japan’s
biggest brokerage, said profit fell 80 percent in the first
quarter on a slump in investment banking and trading.  
 Net income of 2.3 billion yen ($26.6 million) for the three
months ended June 30 was the lowest in five quarters, according
to a statement from the Tokyo-based company today. The result
compares with profit of 11.4 billion yen a year earlier, and the
average of four estimates from analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
for a loss of 334 million yen.  
 A 31 percent drop in investment banking fees during the
quarter contrasts with a rebound at UBS AG and a surge in
trading income at  Morgan Stanley . Chief Executive Officer
 Kenichi Watanabe , who led the 2008 acquisition of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s Asian and European operations, today
reported the company’s biggest pretax loss for overseas
businesses in five quarters.  
 “The results are unimpressive, with weaker investment
banking revenue and lower trading gains,” said  Jun Oishi , a
Tokyo-based analyst at  Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc.  “The near-
term profit outlook remains uncertain; over the mid-to-longer-
term, we’ll be looking for an expanded product line in Europe
and Asia ex-Japan, and for its expansion efforts in the U.S. to
translate into reasonable profit.”  
 Banking Fees  
 Investment banking fees slid to 20.4 billion yen, from 29.7
billion yen a year earlier, the company said. First-quarter
revenue fell 14 percent to 314 billion yen.  
 Nomura underwrote 202.4 billion yen of share sales in Japan
for the quarter, compared with 553.9 billion yen a year earlier
when it arranged a share sale for  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial
Group Inc. , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Brokerage commissions jumped 16 percent to 118 billion yen
for the quarter, while trading profit sank by 50 percent to 60
billion yen, the company said today.  
 Nomura posted a pretax loss on overseas operations of 28.5
billion yen.  
 Analysts’ estimates for Nomura’s net income ranged from a
profit of 2.2 billion yen to a loss of 3.8 billion yen.  
 “We will continue our efforts to become a global top-tier
investment bank,” Chief Financial Officer  Masafumi Nakada  said
today at a briefing in Tokyo. “We’ve been around the break-even
point, and we need to boost our revenue.”  
 Morgan Stanley  
 Morgan Stanley last week said net income rose to $1.96
billion in the second quarter from $149 million a year earlier.
Revenue rose to $8 billion from $5.2 billion a year earlier.  
 UBS, Switzerland’s biggest bank, and Deutsche Bank AG,
Germany’s largest, reported second-quarter profits that
surpassed analysts’ estimates.  
 The Swiss bank posted net income of 2.01 billion Swiss
francs ($1.81 billion), its third straight profit, on a rebound
at the investment bank. Deutsche Bank said earnings rose 6.4
percent from a year ago to 1.16 billion euros ($1.5 billion),
buoyed by retail and transaction banking.  
 Stock-trading revenue at Morgan Stanley rose 82 percent
during the quarter, helping the New York-based firm beat
analysts’ net income estimates.  
 Nomura ranked 19th in advising global mergers and
acquisitions for the quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It was the No. 10 underwriter for global equity
offering.  
 The Japanese brokerage plans to offer research coverage for
600 companies in the U.S. in a bid to boost revenue from the
world’s biggest equity market, it told investors in May. It has
already increased fixed-income division employees in the country
to more than 270 from 50 and is investing 250 billion yen to
expand in the U.S.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Takahiko Hyuga  in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Nomura Holdings Inc chief executive officer Kenichi Watanabe. Photographer: Kimimasa Mayama/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
