-- Novo Nordisk, Lilly, Novartis Said to Bid for Ascendis Pharma
-- Trista Kelley
-- 2010-07-30T15:24:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/novo-nordisk-lilly-novartis-said-to-be-among-bidders-for-ascendis-pharma.html

          
          
             Novo Nordisk A/S , Novartis AG’S
Sandoz and  Eli Lilly & Co.  are among bidders for Ascendis Pharma
A/S of Denmark, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  
 The Copenhagen-based health-care company received offers of
about $400 million, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the process isn’t public. Ascendis may choose
a final bidder by early September, the person said.  
 Ascendis has a technology that allows drugs to be released
into the body in a controlled way over time, according to its
 website . The company focuses on hormone-related disorders and is
developing a human growth hormone that can be taken once a week.
It’s also developing new formulations of approved medicines and
products for central nervous system and infectious diseases,
according to the website.  
 The Danish company is developing a weekly insulin shot.
 Novo Nordisk , also based in Copenhagen and the biggest maker of
the hormone insulin, aims to introduce an insulin product in
2013 that’s taken three times weekly. Indianapolis-based Lilly
has an insulin product in mid-stage trials that targets a once-
daily dose for diabetes. Sandoz, the generic-drug unit of
Switzerland’s Novartis, sells biosimilar medicines including a
version of Pfizer Inc.’s growth hormone.  
 Ascendis spokeswoman Lotte Sønderbjerg declined to comment.
Mark Taylor, a Lilly spokesman, said the company doesn’t comment
on "market rumors and deal speculation.’’ Eric Althoff, a
Novartis spokesman, didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment. Novo Nordisk had no comment, spokeswoman Katrine
Sperling said.  
 Sanofi’s Insulin  
 Sanofi-Aventis SA this week said it dropped development of
an experimental, long-acting insulin that wouldn’t require
diabetics to receive daily injections. The Paris-based company
is still seeking a successor to its existing Lantus insulin, a
daily shot that generated 3.1 billion euros ($4.05 billion) in
revenue last year. Lantus is Sanofi’s  best-selling medicine .  
 Sanofi, France’s biggest drugmaker, cut its 2010 earnings
forecast this month after U.S. regulators approved a generic
rival to its Lovenox blood thinner. The company is preparing a
formal approach to acquire  Genzyme Corp. , the world’s largest
maker of medicines for genetic diseases, which last week
rebuffed an informal approach by Sanofi to enter talks, said
people familiar with the situation.  
 Ascendis is  owned  by its management, Paris-based Sofinnova
Partners,  Gilde HealthCare Partners BV  of Utrecht, the
Netherlands, and TechnoStart of Germany.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
 Trista Kelley  in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        