-- Oaktree Files Court Objection to Dubai's Plan to Restructure Almatis Debt
-- Patricia Kuo
-- 2010-07-30T10:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/oaktree-files-objection-to-dubai-intenational-plan-to-restructure-almatis.html

          
          
             Oaktree Capital Management LLC  filed
an objection to a debt restructuring plan for German alumina-
products maker Almatis as it wrestles for control of the
company, according to court documents.  
 The proposal from shareholder  Dubai International Capital
LLC  “will saddle the business with too much debt and excessive
cash interest charges,” Los Angeles-based Oaktree said in the
filing to the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of
New York yesterday. It “raises questions not only about the
debtors’ long-term viability, but the feasibility of the plan in
the short-term as well.”  
 Oaktree, Almatis’s largest senior lender, also said it
started talks with the company for a revised restructuring
proposal that would cut its debt to a “significantly lower
level” and provide junior lenders with better recoveries.  
 Oaktree holds about $300 million, or 46 percent of
Almatis’s senior debt, it said in the filings. The Frankfurt-
based company sought Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection from
creditors in April.  
 Almatis last week filed a motion in support of Dubai’s
proposal, which will repay senior creditors in full while junior
lenders swap their debt for less than 50 percent of shares.  
 Almatis defaulted on $40 million of debt in June 2009 after
the economic downturn sapped demand for its products. The
company’s revenue is projected to rise to $534 million this year
from $400 million last year.  
 Dubai International paid about $1.2 billion for Almatis in
2007, using debt $970 million of loans underwritten by banks
including UBS AG and Bahrain-based Arab Banking Corp., Bloomberg
data show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Kuo  in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        