-- Obama Says Auto Industry `Growing Stronger,' Creating Jobs
-- Nicholas Johnston
-- 2010-07-30T17:38:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/obama-tells-detroit-auto-workers-industry-creating-jobs-after-u-s-bailout.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama , in the heart
of the U.S. auto industry, told a crowd of workers that the
government bailouts of General Motors Co. and Chrysler Group LLC
are giving taxpayers a return on their investment.  
 Heading into a congressional election season in which polls
show the public skeptical about the $84.8 billion rescue and
anxious about economy, Obama is using the backdrop of Detroit-
area plants owned by GM and Chrysler to promote what he says is
an industry revival that has saved more than a million jobs.  
 “The fact that we’re standing in this magnificent factory
today is a testament to the decisions we made,” Obama said at a
Chrysler factory that recently added a second shift of workers
to build the Jeep Grand Cherokee.  
 Obama told about 1,000 employees at the factory that, if
his opponents had been successful in blocking aid for
automakers, their jobs might not exist. Their efforts are
“proving the naysayers wrong,” he said.  
 “They said we should just walk away and let those jobs
go,” Obama said. “Today, this industry is growing stronger.
It’s creating new jobs.”  
 Voter Skepticism  
 Voters aren’t persuaded. A Bloomberg National Poll
conducted July 9-12 that shows the federal assistance package to
automobile companies is becoming less popular: 48 percent say
they became less supportive in recent months versus 17 percent
who say they have become more supportive.  
 Steve Rattner , the former head of the president’s
automotive task force, said that perception is disappointing.  
 “It appears that those of us behind it haven’t succeeded
in convincing people that it’s worked,” he said in an
interview.  
 Since GM and Chrysler exited bankruptcy a little more than
a year ago, the industry -- including Ford Motor Co., which
didn’t seek federal aid -- has  re-hired  55,000 workers after
shedding 334,000 in the year before.  
 “History will record that we did the right thing” by
stepping in,  Ronald Bloom , the administration’s senior counselor
for manufacturing policy, said today in an interview on
Bloomberg Television. The administration’s auto team was “asked
to put together a tough-minded plan to put these companies back
on their feet as fast as we could. So far, so good,” he said.  
 Industry Profits  
 All three U.S. car companies reported a  profit  for the
first quarter of 2010, the first time that has happened since
2004. In addition, GM is poised to undertake an initial public
offering this year, and Chrysler Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  has said his company likely will do so in 2011.  
 The administrations of Obama and his predecessor,  George W. Bush , committed a total of $85 billion to rescue the automakers,
aid suppliers and prop up the financing arms of GM and Chrysler.
About $67 billion in loans and equity investments are still
outstanding, according to administration figures.  
 White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  said yesterday the
government is “on the path towards” getting repaid the $59.4
billion committed to the companies by the Obama administration.  
 GM has already repaid $6.7 billion in loans and the U.S.
stands to recoup tens of billions of dollars more when the
company conducts an initial public offering of stock later this
year.  
 “We’re hopeful that General Motors can go public later
this year, and we’re hopeful that after that we’ll be able to
move our shares out,” Bloom said. “At this moment we think
things are going well.”  
 Staying Open  
 The stock offering is central to the government’s
expectations of getting repaid. For the U.S. to recoup all of
its $42.2 billion investment in GM, the company would have to be
worth at least $66 billion and possibly as much as $80 billion,
depending on when the government sells its stock. GM’s implied
equity value is about $53 billion based on its bond price.  
 Obama stopped first at Chrysler’s Jefferson North plant,
which makes the Jeep Grand Cherokee. The facility employed 2,134
workers in 2007, before the financial crisis and recession. It
has 2,833 employees now, after the company added a second shift.
The company today announced that its Sterling Heights, Michigan,
plant will stay open instead of closing in 2012. Chrysler plans
to add a second shift and about 900 jobs there in the first
quarter of 2011.  
 ‘Brutal’ Shock  
 Obama said failing to aid GM and Chrysler would have led to
a “brutal, irreversible shock” to the national economy and the
growing payrolls at the Michigan plants show steps taken by the
government worked.  
 “Our strategy was to get this company and this industry
back on its feet,” he said after a tour of the Chrysler plant
led by Marchionne. “There is no doubt that the auto industry is
growing stronger.”  
 At the Hamtramck GM plant, Obama’s second stop, the
president is being accompanied by GM Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Edward Whitacre . The facility is one of nine
that GM decided to keep open during a scheduled summer shutdown.
It had 1,789 workers before the crash and has about 1,100 now.  
 Obama is scheduled to stop at a Ford plant next week in
Chicago, where the company is adding 1,200 jobs to produce its
new Explorer sport-utility vehicle.  
 The visit to the GM plant provides Obama with an
opportunity to highlight another aspect of his economic plan:
investments in alternative sources of energy. It’s there that GM
will produce the Chevrolet Volt electric car, scheduled to go on
sale later this year.  
 Job Losses  
 The president’s sales pitch is tempered by some sobering
forecasts. While the industry has added 55,000 jobs since June
2009, auto manufacturing in Michigan is on a decline. A 2009
University of Michigan  study  found that the state would end up
with 95,500 blue-collar auto manufacturing jobs by the end of
2011, compared with 172,350 in 2008. The state’s unemployment
rate was 13.2 percent in June compared with the national rate of
9.5 percent.  
 While the president is putting the auto bailout on the list
of his administration’s accomplishments ahead of the
congressional elections in November, Republicans are using it to
highlight what they say is the government overreaching and
overspending.  
 Republican Critics  
 Obama used the “crisis at some of America’s great auto-
making firms as an opportunity for government to extend its
reach into industrial policy,” Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky said last month.  
 “We’re not complaining here in Michigan,” said  Sean McAlinden , economist at the Ann Arbor, Michigan-based non-profit
Center for Automotive Research. “If they do pay all of their
money back, this will be one of the most successful industrial
policy interventions in American history.”  
 Workers at the Chrysler plant were also in favor of the
government aid.  
 “Without the bailout we probably wouldn’t be here,” said
Tom Berna, 52, from Madison Heights, Michigan, who has worked in
the auto industry for 16 years.  
 ----With assistance from  Jeff Green  and  David Welch  in
Southfield Michigan and  Jeffrey McCracken  in New York, and
 Alison Fitzgerald  in Washington. Editors:  Joe Sobczyk ,  Bill Schmick   
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kate Andersen Brower  in Detroit, Michigan, at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       US President Barack Obama  
                       
                         
                           Jim Watson/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         US President Barack Obama makes remarks after touring through the Chrysler Auto Plant in Detroit, Michigan, July 30, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     US President Barack Obama makes remarks after touring through the Chrysler Auto Plant in Detroit, Michigan, July 30, 2010. Photographer: Jim Watson/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
