-- Obama Making Sales Pitch for Auto Bailouts to Skeptical Voters
-- Nicholas Johnston
-- 2010-07-30T15:55:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/obama-trumpeting-success-of-automaker-bailouts-to-skeptical-u-s-voters.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  arrived in
the heart of the U.S. auto industry today on a mission to
convince taxpayers that their investment in the bailouts of
General Motors Co. and Chrysler Group LLC will bring a return.  
 Heading into a congressional election season in which polls
show the public skeptical about the $84.8 billion rescue and
anxious about economy, Obama is using the backdrop of Detroit-
area plants owned by GM and Chrysler to promote what he says is
an industry revival that has saved more than a million jobs.  
 Obama previewed the argument he’ll make in an interview
broadcast yesterday.  
 “We are going to get all the money back that we invested
in those car companies,” Obama said on ABC’s “The View”
program. The industry’s resurgence “tells a good story” about
the U.S. economic recovery, he said.  
 Many voters don’t see it that way now. A Bloomberg National
Poll conducted July 9-12 that shows the federal assistance
package to automobile companies is becoming less popular: 48
percent say they had become less supportive in recent months
versus 17 percent who say they have become more supportive.  
 Steve Rattner , the former head of president’s automotive
task force, said that perception is disappointing.  
 “It appears that those of us behind it haven’t succeeded
in convincing people that it’s worked,” he said in an
interview.  
 Re-Hiring Workers  
 Since GM and Chrysler exited bankruptcy a little more than
a year ago, the industry -- including Ford Motor Co., which
didn’t seek federal aid -- has  re-hired  55,000 workers after
shedding 334,000 in the year before.  
 “History will record that we did the right thing” by
stepping in,  Ronald Bloom , the administration’s senior counselor
for manufacturing policy, said today in an interview on
Bloomberg Television. The administration’s auto team was “asked
to put together a tough-minded plan to put these companies back
on their feet as fast as we could. So far, so good.”  
 All three U.S. car companies reported a  profit  for the
first quarter of 2010, the first time that has happened since
2004. In addition, GM is poised to undertake an initial public
offering this year, and Chrysler Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  has said his company likely will do so in 2011.  
 Repayments  
 The administrations of Obama and his predecessor,  George W. Bush , committed a total of $85 billion to rescue the automakers,
aid suppliers and prop up the financing arms of GM and Chrysler.
About $67 billion in loans and equity investments are still
outstanding, according to administration figures.  
 White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  said yesterday the
government is “on the path towards” getting repaid the $59.4
billion committed to the companies by the Obama administration.  
 GM has already repaid $6.7 billion in loans and the U.S.
stands to recoup tens of billions of dollars more when the
company conducts an initial public offering of stock later this
year.  
 “We’re hopeful that General Motors can go public later
this year, and we’re hopeful that after that we’ll be able to
move our shares out,” Bloom said. “At this moment we think
things are going well.”  
 Staying Open  
 The stock offering is central to the government’s
expectations of getting repaid. For the U.S. to recoup all of
its $42.2 billion investment in GM, the company would have to be
worth at least $66 billion and possibly as much as $80 billion,
depending on when the government sells its stock. GM’s implied
equity value is about $53 billion based on its bond price.  
 Obama stopped first at Chrysler’s Jefferson North plant,
which the company makes the Jeep Grand Cherokee. The facility
employed 2,134 in 2007, before the financial crisis and
recession. It has 2,833 employees now, after the company added a
second shift. The company today announced that its Sterling
Heights, Michigan plant will stay open instead of closing in
2012. Chrysler plans to add a second shift and about 900 jobs
there in the first quarter of 2011.  
 Marchionne is leading the president on the tour.  
 At the Hamtramck GM plant, Obama’s second stop, the
president will be accompanied by GM Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Edward Whitacre . The facility is one of nine that GM
decided to keep open during a scheduled summer shutdown. It had
1,789 workers before the crash and has about 1,100 now.  
 Ford Next Week  
 Obama is scheduled to stop at a Ford plant next week in
Chicago, where the company is adding 1,200 jobs to produce its
new Explorer sport-utility vehicle.  
 The visit to the GM plant provides Obama with an
opportunity to highlight another aspect of his economic plan:
investments in alternative source of energy. It’s there that GM
will produce the Chevrolet Volt electric car, scheduled to go on
sale later this year.  
 The president’s sales pitch is tempered by some sobering
forecasts. While the industry has added 55,000 jobs since June
2009, auto manufacturing in Michigan is on a decline. A 2009
University of Michigan  study  found that the state would end up
with 95,500 blue-collar auto manufacturing jobs by the end of
2011, compared with 172,350 in 2008. The state’s unemployment
rate was 13.2 percent in June compared with the national rate of
9.5 percent.  
 While the president is putting the auto bailout on the list
of his administration’s accomplishments ahead of the
congressional elections in November, Republicans are using it as
campaign tool to highlight what they say is the government
overreaching and overspending.  
 Republican Critics  
 Obama used the “crisis at some of America’s great auto-
making firms as an opportunity for government to extend its
reach into industrial policy,” Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky said last month.  
 “We’re not complaining here in Michigan,” said  Sean McAlinden , economist at Ann Arbor, Michigan-based non-profit
Center for Automotive Research. “If they do pay all of their
money back, this will be one of the most successful industrial
policy interventions in American history.”  
 ----With assistance from  Jeff Green  and  David Welch  in
Southfield Michigan and  Jeffrey McCracken  in New York, and
 Alison Fitzgerald  in Washington. Editors:
 Joe Sobczyk ,  Robin Meszoly   
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kate Andersen Brower  in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       President Barack Obama in Detroit  
                       
                         
                           Jeffrey Sauger/Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.S. President Barack Obama speaks at Chrysler Group LLC's Jefferson North Assembly Plant in Detroit, Michigan, U.S., on Friday, July 30, 2010. Obama, in the heart of the U.S. auto industry, told a crowd of workers that the government bailouts of General Motors Co. and Chrysler Group LLC are giving taxpayers a return on their investment. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.S. President Barack Obama speaks at Chrysler Group LLC's Jefferson North Assembly Plant in Detroit, Michigan, U.S., on Friday, July 30, 2010. Obama, in the heart of the U.S. auto industry, told a crowd of workers that the government bailouts of General Motors Co. and Chrysler Group LLC are giving taxpayers a return on their investment. Photographer: Jeffrey Sauger/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Ron Bloom, senior counselor to the U.S. Treasury on manufacturing policy, discusses the government's rescue of the automobile industry and the outlook for an initial public offering of shares in General Motors Co. 
     President Barack Obama travels to the Detroit area today to visit a Chrysler plant and a GM facility that are adding production. Bloom speaks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Jeffrey Schuster, executive director of global forecasting at J.D. Power & Associates, discusses the outlook for the U.S. auto industry and the prospects of an initial public offering by General Motors Co.
     President Barack Obama travels to the Detroit area today to visit a Chrysler plant and a GM facility that are adding production. Schuster speaks with Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop With Betty Liu.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Gerald Greenwald, managing partner of Greenbriar Equity Group LLC and a former chairman of Chrysler Motors, talks about the likelihood General Motors Co. and Chrysler Group LLC will repay funds received from the U.S. government to help the automakers avoid collapse.
      Greenwald, speaking with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack," also discusses the necessity of the auto bailout and the industry outlook. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
