-- Obama Immigration Victory Adds to Pressure for Federal Action
-- William McQuillen
-- 2010-07-30T04:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/obama-s-immigration-victory-in-arizona-adds-pressure-for-federal-action.html

          
          
             The Obama administration won the
first round in its fight to stop Arizona and potentially more
than a dozen other states from cracking down on illegal
immigration. The battle ahead may prove more treacherous.  
 A federal trial judge’s ruling this week blocking Arizona’s
new law sets up a legal and political gauntlet for the
administration over the coming months. The Justice Department,
which sued to challenge the law, ultimately may have to persuade
the  U.S. Supreme Court  that the state intruded too far into the
traditionally federal sphere of immigration policy.  
 At the same time, the administration’s stance is helping to
ratchet up political pressure on it to take charge of the issue.
A courtroom victory might increase the risk that the public will
blame President  Barack Obama  and the Democratic-led Congress for
failing to stem the tide of illegal immigration.  
 “The administration should be pleased with this victory,
but this is a continuing struggle here,” said Peter Spiro,
immigration professor at Temple University’s law school. “You
end up with an unintended consequence of rebuffing states from
acting on their own. It forces them to go to Washington.”  
 U.S. District Judge  Susan Bolton  in Phoenix on July 28
 blocked  central provisions in the Arizona law, including the
requirement that police determine the immigration status of
people stopped for questioning.  
 Federal Policy  
 Bolton said that provision would interfere with federal
immigration policy because it would sweep in legal residents.
“This requirement imposes an unacceptable burden on lawfully
present aliens,” wrote the judge, a 2000 appointee of President
 Bill Clinton .  
 The law would have taken effect yesterday.  
 Arizona yesterday asked the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals based in San Francisco to review the ruling and
requested an expedited schedule that could mean a decision later
this year.  
 “America is not going to sit back and allow the ongoing
federal failures to continue,” Arizona Governor  Jan Brewer , a
Republican, said in a statement. “We are a nation of laws and
we believe they need to be enforced. If the federal government
wants to be in charge of illegal immigration and they want no
help from states, it then needs to do its job.”  
 The case may be ticketed for the Supreme Court, which long
ago assigned the federal government the lead role in fashioning
national immigration policy, according to Kevin Johnson, an
immigration expert and the dean of the University of California
at Davis School of Law.  
 Clear Precedent  
 “The Supreme Court precedent is very clear that
immigration regulation is exclusively a federal power,” said
Johnson, a board member of the Mexican American Legal Defense
and Education Fund, which is challenging the Arizona law in a
separate case. “States can do some things at the margins, but
primarily immigration regulation is for the federal
government.”  
 Recent high court decisions have tended to side with
immigrants, Johnson said. That includes a 7-2 ruling in March
that said criminal lawyers have a duty to inform non-American
clients considering a guilty plea about the risk of deportation.  
 Even so, those rulings didn’t address the power of states
to enact their own immigration laws. The court hasn’t considered
that subject in more than 30 years, said  Richard Samp , chief
counsel of the  Washington Legal Foundation , which opposes the
law.  
 Samp said he expects the Supreme Court would divide over
some of the Arizona provisions. In other contexts, the court
lately has proven skeptical of arguments that federal laws
preempt state measures.  
 Court Trend  
 “The general trend of the court in the last couple of
years has been against preemption,” Samp said.  
 The high court will give a clue about its inclinations in
its 2010-11 term when it considers a separate Arizona
immigration statute, a law that puts companies at risk of losing
their corporate charters if they hire illegal aliens. The U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, backed by the Obama administration, is
challenging that measure.  
 For now, Bolton’s ruling may dampen efforts around the
country to enact similar measures.  
 “There had been a great deal of chatter that states would
wholesale adopt what Arizona was doing,” said  Dennis Burke , who
as U.S. attorney for Arizona was involved in the federal
government’s lawsuit. “There’re going to have to take a
pause.”  
 Similar Proposals  
 As of June 30, legislatures in five states -- Michigan,
Minnesota, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and South Carolina -- had
introduced similar bills, according to the National Conference
of State Legislatures. If Arizona were to be successful, 22
states could follow with similar measures, according to  Reform
Immigration for America , which backs amnesty programs for
illegal aliens.  
 With congressional elections barely three months away, the
political fight may prove more difficult than the legal fight
for the administration. A June 3-10 ABC News/Washington Post
 poll  found that 58 percent of adults surveyed favored the
Arizona provision to have police check immigration status.  
 The nationwide poll also found that just 39 percent of
adults approve of Obama’s handling of the immigration issue,
while 51 percent disapprove. The survey of 1,004 adults had a
margin of error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage points.  
 ‘A Losing Side’  
 “The administration is on something of a losing side of
this,” said  John Fortier , a congressional scholar with the
 American Enterprise Institute . “There’s a real possibility that
they will motivate more voters who are worried about immigration
than they are likely to get a huge turnout of the Hispanic
vote.”  
 White House Press Secretary  Robert Gibbs  yesterday said
Congress “should act now to enact comprehensive immigration
reform.”  
 A spokesman for Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said this
week that the Nevada Democrat is considering whether to seek a
vote on a narrower immigration bill.  
 Obama’s ability to win passage of broad-based immigration
changes is all but certain to weaken after the November
elections because Republicans are likely to pick up seats in
both chambers -- and could even retake the House -- Fortier
said.  
 Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus said yesterday
that Bolton’s ruling increases the pressure on Congress.  
 “Legislative action is absolutely necessary and it has to
be timely,” said Representative  Charles Gonzalez , a Texas
Democrat. “We can’t kick the can down the road and hope it’s
going to get any better.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An illegal immigrant is processed by Sheriff's Deputies working for Maricopa County sheriff Joe Arpaio, after an operational sweep in Phoenix, Arizona. Photographer: Mark Ralston/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
