-- Octopus Shareholder Criticizes CEO Prudence Chan Over Private Data Sales
-- Fox Hu
-- 2010-07-30T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/octopus-shareholder-criticizes-ceo-prudence-chan-over-private-data-sales.html

          
          
             The majority shareholder of
 Octopus Holdings Ltd.  criticized the electronic payment
company’s management over the sale of nearly 2 million
customers’ private data and said the Octopus board must
determine her status.  
 While Octopus Chief Executive Officer  Prudence Chan 
remained in her job yesterday, the matter put the company’s
reputation “at risk,” said  Raymond Chien , chairman of
Hong Kong’s  MTR Corp. , which holds 57.4 percent of Octopus.  
 The MTR board met for more than three hours before
Chien faced reporters and apologized for “inconsistencies
and errors in public communications made by Octopus
management.” Chan first said data had not been sold then
told a hearing by Hong Kong’s privacy commissioner July 26
that Octopus had done so. Chan said Octopus had made HK$44
million in revenue selling information on 1.97 million
customers to six companies.  
 Octopus cards are used by millions of Hong Kong
residents for daily purchases including subway and bus
rides and fast-food meals. MTR operates Hong Kong’s subway
trains and develops property.  
 “The board of MTR is deeply disappointed with Octopus
management’s handling of the matter,” Chien said yesterday.
“There is public and media interest regarding the future
of the CEO of Octopus Holdings, Ms. Prudence Chan. The
employment of the Octopus CEO is the responsibility of the
Octopus board and this is a matter for the Octopus board to
decide.”  
 Core Business  
 MTR is “of the view that Octopus needs to get back to
its core, so to speak, to focus on being one of the best
electronic payment systems in the world,” Chien said. MTR
had directed its representatives on the Octopus board to
”improve the company’s management,” he said.  
 Octopus had no comment on whether Chan should keep her
job, said a spokeswoman who didn’t give her name, citing
company policy. The Octopus board will meet soon on the
matter, the spokeswoman said.  
 Chan said in a press conference July 7 Octopus had
never sold customer data, newspapers including Apple Daily,
Ming Pao Daily and Hong Kong Economic Times reported.  
 Lawmaker  Lee Cheuk-yan  said yesterday MTR should share
the blame for the sale of private data by Octopus.  
 “Yes, Ms. Chan must be held accountable, but MTR, the
majority shareholder of Octopus, is also responsible as
Chan reports to its board,” Lee said.  
 Octopus cards are used by Hong Kong residents who
swipe them over scanners for transactions such as subway
and bus rides and at fast-food outlets and convenience
stores. While the cards can be purchased for cash,
customers who participate in a rewards  program  with the
card must provide personal details.  
 Chan, who joined Octopus from Visa International in
2006, apologized and said July 26 the company would no
longer sell private information of its customers.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fox Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        