-- Honda Raises Profit Forecast on Global Sales Recovery
-- Yuki Hagiwara
-- 2010-07-30T09:11:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/honda-raises-full-year-net-income-forecast-on-sales-recovery-in-u-s-asia.html

          
          
             Honda Motor Co. , Japan’s second-
largest automaker, raised its full-year profit forecast as
greater-than-expected sales gains in Asia outweigh the negative
effects of a stronger Japanese currency.  
 Honda expects  net income  of 455 billion yen ($5.26 billion)
in the year ending in March, compared with an earlier estimate
of 340 billion yen, the Tokyo-based company said in a statement
today. Revenue may rise 6.1 percent to 9.1 trillion yen, it said.  
 The maker of Accord sedans expects to sell 3.64 million
vehicles this fiscal year, compared with an earlier estimate of
3.615 million, with gains in Asia outside Japan accounting for
the increase. A global recovery in demand is also cutting
Honda’s fixed costs by raising its factory utilization rate,
Executive Vice President  Koichi Kondo  told reporters in Tokyo.  
 “Honda’s estimates were conservative,”  Hiroaki Osakabe , a
fund manager at Tokyo-based Chiba-Gin Asset Management Co., said
before the announcement. “They are running ahead of their
target.”  
 Honda, the world’s biggest motorcycle maker, also raised
its two-wheeler sales forecast to 10.82 million vehicles from
10.38 million.  
 Honda  fell  0.3 percent to close at 2,709 yen on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange before the earnings announcement.  
 Stronger Yen  
 The company’s  operating profit  may be eroded by 80 billion
yen as the Japanese currency gains more than previously forecast,
Honda said. The automaker based its full-year profit estimate on
exchange rates of 87 yen to the U.S. dollar and 112 yen to the
euro. In April, Honda expected the currency to average 90
against the dollar and 120 against the euro.  
 A rising yen against the two currencies reduces the
repatriated value of earnings from sales in the U.S. and Europe.  
 A revamped Odyssey minivan and better inventory management
of CR-V, Pilot and Fit models will help sales in the U.S., Kondo
said. Still, “real customer demand, aside from the fleet
segment, are not on a recovery trend in a true sense,” he said.  
 Honda’s net income in the three months ended June 30 surged
to 272.49 billion yen from 7.56 billion yen a year earlier.
Revenue increased 18 percent to 2.36 trillion yen from 2
trillion yen.  
 North America Sales  
 Honda’s deliveries in North America, its most profitable
market, rose 15 percent in the quarter as the U.S. economy
recovered, while Japan sales jumped 13 percent on government
subsidies for car buyers. Sales in other Asian countries surged
38 percent.  
 Higher factory utilization cut fixed costs by 40 billion
yen in the three-month period, Kondo said.  
 The carmaker’s first-quarter output in China rose 4.3
percent to 149,109 units, even as its sales in the country fell
2.4 percent in June after  strikes  at suppliers forced the
carmaker to halt production.  
 Honda will cut domestic production 3.5 percent in October
compared with its September output plan, as government subsidies
for fuel-efficient vehicles expire at the end of September, the
company said yesterday. Japan sales may drop to 290,000 in the
fiscal second half, compared with 360,000 units in the first
half, Kondo said.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Takanobu Ito  is expanding Honda’s
gasoline-electric hybrid line-up after unveiling a new hybrid
CR-Z sports car in Japan on Feb. 25. Honda will start selling a
hybrid version of the Fit compact, its most popular model in
Japan, later this year.  
 The company will also start selling a battery-powered car
and plug-in hybrids in 2012 as governments tighten emissions
rules. It plans to introduce a 500,000-rupee ($10,700) car in
India next year and to sell a similar model in Thailand, Ito
said on July 21.  
 Honda aims to build a new motorcycle plant in Indonesia
next year with capacity to make 500,000 units a year.  
 Toyota Motor Corp. , the world’s largest carmaker, reports
first-quarter earnings on Aug. 4.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Takanobu Ito, president and chief executive officer of Honda Motor, speaks during a news conference in Wako City. Photographer: Toshiyuki Aizawa/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
