-- London Gherkin Co-Owner to Make Its Biggest Purchase Since 2007
-- Peter Woodifield
-- 2010-07-30T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/london-gherkin-s-co-owner-prepares-for-its-biggest-acquisition-since-2007.html

          
          
             The co-owner of the London tower
known as the Gherkin says the time is right to buy more offices
in the U.K. capital and is about to make its biggest acquisition
since 2007.  
 Evans Randall Ltd.  will pay as much as 250 million pounds
($391 million) in the next few weeks for offices in  Drapers
Gardens ,  Michael Evans , the closely held investment bank’s
founder and chairman, said in an interview. The building in the
City of London, the main financial district, is owned by  Morgan
Stanley ,  Canary Wharf Group Plc  and Exemplar Properties and
leased by BlackRock Inc.  
 Evans Randall could spend as much as 1.5 billion pounds in
a year to buy more central London properties, as it seeks to
profit from rising demand for modern space, Evans said. City of
London office values have  rebounded  19 percent in the past 10
months, following a two-year slump that wiped 45 percent off
prices, according to Investment Property Databank Ltd. A
shortage of new developments is pushing up rents as companies
recruit more staff.  
 “Now is the time to buy the best quality assets if we can
get our hands on them,” said Evans, 57. “The pound is very
weak, interest rates are at a record low, rental demand is at an
exceptional level -- the best at any time since 2006.”  
 BlackRock, the world’s biggest asset manager, has a 25-year
lease on Drapers Gardens, a 270,000 square-foot (25,100 square-
meter) building near the Bank of England. Deka Immobilien, the
real estate unit of Frankfurt-based Dekabank Deutsche
Girozentrale, pulled out of an agreement to buy the site for
about 240 million pounds in June, according to a report last
month in Property Week.  
 London Deals  
 Evans Randall, which owns about 5 billion pounds of real
estate assets in the U.K., the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany and
Russia, is “‘working on a couple of others” in central London,
the chairman said.  
 “London corrected more than some other markets and it has
come back more quickly,” Evans said in his London office. “We
will continue to focus more on London as we feel a lot more
comfortable there and the tax environment is relatively
benign.”  
 Evans Randall has already benefited from the market’s
recovery. The company sold Milton Gate, the head office of law
firm  Addleshaw Goddard  in the City, for about 164 million pounds
earlier this year. That was about 37 million pounds more than it
paid  UBS AG  for the building last year and gave Evans Randall’s
investors a return of 60 percent before costs and fees, Evans
said.  
 Under-Rented  
 “Given the strength of the rental market in Mayfair, the
City of London and Canary Wharf, we will see significant rental
growth between now and 2014,” said Evans, who founded the bank
in 1993. Some buildings in those districts are “under-rented,”
meaning landlords could charge more than what current tenants
pay, he said.  
 Evans Randall has bought more properties than it sold since
the real estate slump started. Assuming the Drapers Gardens deal
goes through, the bank will have invested almost 1 billion
pounds since the beginning of 2008, compared with divestments of
about 270 million pounds, he said.  
 Evans Randall bought  Silver City , an office development in
central Moscow, at the end of last year for about 180 million
euros ($236 million), its first investment in the Russian
capital.  
 Most of his investors are what Evans calls “ultra high-net
-worth individuals,” and he has recently been approached by
some sovereign wealth funds that are interested in the types of
properties he buys. The majority of purchases are funded by five
or six people, with four investing about 10 million pounds each.
Evans declined to say how big his pool of investors is.  
 Luxury Apartments  
 In April, Evans Randall branched out in a new direction by
forming a venture with Northacre Plc, which develops luxury
residential apartments in the U.K. capital. Evans Randall will
raise equity and debt for projects that Northacre will design
and develop.  
 The bank’s biggest purchase was 5 Canada Square in Canary
Wharf, the European headquarters of Bank of America Corp., for
452 million pounds in July 2007. That was the same month that
office prices in the City of London peaked. In February of that
year, Evans Randall and  IVG Immobilien AG  paid Swiss Reinsurance
Co. 630 million pounds for the pickle-shaped Gherkin tower.  
 “I don’t think anyone could realistically say we have come
out of the downturn just as we were before,” he said. “We have
managed to steer our way quite effectively through the
turmoil.”  
 The bank now has to “deal with some of the assets in our
portfolio,” Evans said, without elaborating.  
 Gherkin Investment  
 Yields in London are returning to a level supporting the
investment in the tower occupied by  Swiss Re , Evans said.  
 “Over the next five years, we will see very substantial
rental growth,” which would allow Evans Randall to sell the
Gherkin for an attractive price, he said.  
 “We plan to invest over a five-year to seven-year period,
but you have to expect you may have to be in there for longer,”
he said.  
 The unwillingness of banks to lend on the same terms as
they did before means Evans Randall and its investors have to
put up about 30 percent of the cost, which does reduce returns,
he said.  
 “We are making a strategic decision about which assets we
will hold in the long term and those which we feel will be less
good,” he said. “The best properties will always prove to be
good investments as long as you are willing to hold out for the
long term.”  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Peter Woodifield  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Evans Randall Ltd., co-owner of the London Gherkin, will pay as much as 250 million pounds
($391 million) in the next few weeks for offices in the U.K.'s capital. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
