-- Moody's Says Spain May Lose Aaa Rating; U.S. Needs `Clear Plan'
-- Lisa Pham
-- 2010-07-30T09:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/moody-s-says-spain-may-lose-aaa-rating-u-s-needs-clear-plan-on-deficit.html

          
          
             Spain will probably lose its Aaa
credit rating after the country was put under review for
possible downgrade in June, and the U.S. needs a “clear plan”
to tackle its deficit, Moody’s Investors Service said.  
 “Spain is very highly rated and I can’t say where that
rating will end up, but it’s likely to go down a bit,”  Steven A. Hess , senior credit officer at Moody’s, said in an interview
in Sydney yesterday. In the U.S., slower growth may hinder
government efforts to address the budget shortfall, he said.  
 The Spanish government is trying to cut the third-largest
budget deficit in the euro region while returning to growth
after an almost two-year recession. Spain’s classification may
be lowered as much as two grades, Moody’s analysts said June 30,
citing “deteriorating” economic prospects and the challenges
the government faces to achieve its fiscal targets.  
 “We’re watching the government’s measures that they are
implementing and we’ll probably try to put that rating at the
level we think it should belong for some time to come,” Hess
said. “We don’t see it moving down as many notches as Greece
did.”  
 Moody’s last month downgraded Greece four steps to non-
investment grade, citing “substantial” risks to economic
growth from the austerity measures tied to a 110 billion-euro
($144 billion) aid package from the European Union and the
International Monetary Fund. The company’s review of Spain will
be concluded within a three-month period, it said in June.  
 Rating Cut  
 Standard & Poor’s cut Spain’s rating in April and Fitch
followed with a downgrade in May.  
 Spain’s unemployment rate, the highest in the euro region,
rose to 20.1 percent in the second quarter, the highest in more
than a decade, the National Statistics Institute said today. The
rate has more than doubled in three years, as a result of the
collapse of a decade-long building boom.  
 The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Spanish debt
rather than German equivalents rose to 159 basis points today
from 152 basis points yesterday. That compares with a euro-era
closing high of 221 basis points on June 16.  
 The U.S. faces a difficult task in trying to stimulate
growth as its current debt trajectory would threaten the
nation’s top rating in the years ahead, said Hess.  
 “The U.S. certainly shouldn’t be trying to put more debt
on its books, but we do have questions about the strength of the
economic growth,” Hess said. “If economic growth is not there,
then the government’s ability to fix its budget problem is less
because the revenue will be less. So it can be counter-
productive not to stimulate.”  
 Gross domestic product in the world’s largest economy
probably slowed for a second quarter, the Commerce Department is
forecast to say today. The U.S. economy grew at an annual 2.6
percent pace last quarter from 2.7 percent in the previous three
months, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed.  
 Former Federal Reserve vice chairman  Alan Blinder  joined
Nobel prize-winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz  and  Mark Zandi ,
chief economist at Moody’s Economy.com, in signing an open
letter calling on the government to increase spending to bolster
the economy, published July 19 by the Daily Beast website.  
 Hess said the U.S. needs a strategy for curbing its budget
deficit, which was 9.9 percent of GDP at the end of last fiscal
year on Sept. 30. The fiscal shortfall is projected to reach a
record $1.47 trillion this year.  
 Clear Plan  
 “Having a clear plan certainly increases confidence and
the U.S. doesn’t have that yet,” said Hess.  
 President  Barack Obama  on Feb. 18 formed a bipartisan
commission to recommend steps to reduce federal debt, projected
to reach 90 percent of the economy by 2020. Its recommendations
are due Dec. 1, after midterm elections in November.  
 The panel’s challenge is to devise a plan proposing tax
increases and spending cuts that can get backing from at least
14 of its 18 members, the number needed to forward any proposal
to Capitol Hill, and then win support in Congress.  
 “The question is, will the politics allow these
recommendations to be adopted and implemented?” said Hess.
“This is what we’re going to be watching over the next couple
of years, because the debt trajectory as it is now is something
that might potentially cause us to consider whether the U.S. is
Aaa at some point in the future.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net 
 Lisa Pham  in Sydney at 
 lpham14@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Moody’s last month downgraded Greece four steps  
                       
                         
                           Christian Keenan/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Moody's Investment Services  senior credit officer Steven A. Hess. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Moody's Investment Services  senior credit officer Steven A. Hess. Photographer: Christian Keenan/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Spanish Deputy Finance Minister Jose Manuel Campa talks with Bloomberg's Manus Cranny about the results of the European Union's bank stress tests.
     Campa says the publication of Spain’s stress tests would help build confidence, even as he doesn’t expect a big market reaction to the data. Campa speaks on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

 
     
         Audio Download:  Moody's Hess Interview on European Credit Ratings 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
