-- Top Hedge Funds That Dodged Crash, Rode Market Back Turn Gloomy
-- Saijel Kishan
-- 2010-09-08T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/top-hedge-funds-that-dodged-crash-rode-market-back-turn-gloomy.html

          
          
             The U.S. Federal Reserve would risk
its credibility with a second round of asset purchases because
such a measure may have little impact on economic growth, said
 Colm O’Shea , the London-based hedge fund manager who hasn’t had
a losing year since 2004.  
 The previous asset purchase program, executed last year,
was supported by fiscal stimulus measures globally, inventory
restocking and significant monetary easing, said O’Shea, 40, who
runs $6 billion COMAC Capital LLP.  
 “The current backdrop for quantitative easing is very
different to that of 2009 with many of the other positive
drivers during that time not being present in the current
environment,” he said in an August investor letter. “It is,
therefore, a genuine risk that another sizeable asset
purchase/quantitative easing program will have a limited impact
on growth.”  
 The Fed said Aug. 10 that it would reinvest principal
payments on its mortgage holdings into long-term U.S. debt
securities, adding to speculation policy makers would consider a
second round of large-scale purchases of securities, a strategy
known as quantitative easing.  
 A failure of such measures to stimulate growth may lead to
the Fed losing its credibility for effective policies and
enforce disinflationary expectations, O’Shea said.  
 There is “a valid question of how effective these tools
have been thus far and how effective they can be in the
future,” O’Shea said. He didn’t list his trades in the letter.  
 ‘Rising Concern’  
 Paul Mungo, a spokesman for COMAC, wasn’t available for
comment.  
 O’Shea’s COMAC Global Macro Fund climbed 2.29 percent last
month and 3.85 percent this year, according to the letter, a
copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News. Macro hedge funds,
which seek to profit from broad economic trends by trading
stocks, commodities and currencies, returned 1.45 percent in
August and are down 1.53 percent this year, according to Hedge
Fund Research Inc.’s  HFRI Macro Index .  
 The hedge-fund industry has returned 0.17 percent in August
and 0.18 percent this year through August, according to the
Chicago-based research firm.  
 O’Shea said the outlook for the U.S. economy is becoming a
“rising concern” as demand from households and business
spending isn’t compensating for waning fiscal stimulus and
inventory effects.  
 ‘Air Pocket’  
 “In essence we are in the middle of an ‘air pocket’ in
terms of final demand drivers for growth,” he said in the
letter. “The positive effects of the initial recovery, which
was led by fiscal stimulus and inventory restocking, are now
fading, and household consumption, business investment and
export demand are not compensating for the shortfall.”  
 While central banks are considering ways to lift economic
growth, governments are struggling to reduce budget deficits as
expansion slows in the second half, O’Shea said. Greece has been
effective at meeting deficit targets set by the European Union
and the International Monetary Fund, although tax revenue has
started to fall behind projections and the government increased
spending cuts in response, he said.  
 Spain and Portugal are in danger of missing their targets
based on cash shortfalls for the first half of the year, he
said.  
 “With growth set to slow further in the remainder of the
year, which will affect tax revenues, there is a question around
how much more fiscal tightening voters will be willing to
accept,” O’Shea said. “These issues remain an active driver of
markets and can again become a focal point for market
participants.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Saijel Kishan  in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Daniel Arbess of Parella Weinberg  
                       
                         
                           Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Daniel Arbess started shorting collateralized-debt obligations tied to subprime mortgages at the end of 2006. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Daniel Arbess started shorting collateralized-debt obligations tied to subprime mortgages at the end of 2006. Photographer: Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
