-- Morgan Stanley Names Santoro Co-Head of U.S. Equities Trading With Lauto
-- Michael J. Moore
-- 2010-07-30T21:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/morgan-stanley-names-santoro-co-head-of-u-s-equities-trading-with-lauto.html

          
          
             Morgan Stanley , which last week
reported higher equity trading revenue than its five biggest
competitors, hired  Peter Santoro  as co-head of U.S. equities
trading.  
 Santoro will run the group with  Tony Lauto , who joined the
firm from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in February, according to an
internal memo obtained by Bloomberg News. Morgan Stanley
spokesman  Mark Lake  confirmed the contents of the memo. The New
York-based firm also named  John Neary  global head of portfolio
products.  
 Morgan Stanley beat earnings estimates last week as equity
trading revenue jumped 82 percent from a year earlier. Chief
Executive Officer  James Gorman  has added employees to Morgan
Stanley’s sales and trading unit to close a gap with larger
competitors including Goldman Sachs.  
 Santoro was head of institutional markets at Citadel
Investment Group LLC until December. He previously was global
head of equity trading at Citigroup Inc. and CEO of Knight
Financial Products, according to the memo, which was sent by  Ted Pick , global co-head of equities, and  Sam Kellie-Smith , global
head of trading.  
 Neary will also represent the equities division on the
investment bank’s Financial Reform Steering Committee, which
will help the firm adapt to new rules required by the law
President  Barack Obama  signed earlier this month, according to
the memo. The law boosts oversight of derivatives trading and
puts limits on proprietary trading and banks’ investments in
private-equity and hedge funds.  
 Equities trading generated $2.8 billion of net revenue in
the first six months of this year. That almost matches the $3.4
billion in all of 2009, when the division bore $1.7 billion in
losses related to an improvement in the firm’s own credit
spreads.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Moore  in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        