-- Total Reports 72% Increase in Profit After Raising Production
-- Tara Patel
-- 2010-07-30T09:13:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/total-reports-72-increase-in-quarterly-profit-after-raising-production.html

          
          
             Total SA , Europe’s third-biggest oil
company, reported a 72 percent increase in second-quarter profit
after projects started last year were ramped up.  
 Profit  excluding changes in inventories and the value of a
stake in  Sanofi-Aventis SA  rose to 2.96 billion euros ($3.9
billion) from 1.68 billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based
company said today in a statement. That beat the 2.65 billion-
euro mean estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 “These are very strong figures compared to the peer
group,”  Richard Griffith , an analyst at Evolution Securities
Ltd. in London, wrote in an e-mailed note. “Total has delivered
significant improvements across all of its businesses. Earnings
risks appear to be the upside.”  
 Total’s results follow higher earnings for  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc , which said earlier this week that profit rose 15
percent after production climbed. Italy’s  Eni SpA  reported
adjusted profit of 1.63 billion euros ($2.12 billion), helped by
a stronger dollar. BP Plc reported a record loss of $17.2
billion in the second quarter after taking a charge for the Gulf
of Mexico spill.  
 Total rose as much as 2.3 percent in Paris trading and was
at 38.995 euros as of 10:50 a.m. local time. The shares are down
13 percent this year.  
 Yemen Startup  
 Production  at Total rose 8 percent in the second quarter to
2.359 million barrels of oil equivalent a day from a nine-year
low a year ago. Output was boosted by the start of a second
train at Total’s Yemen LNG project, lower OPEC reductions and an
improved security situation in Nigeria.  
 “In the second quarter, the economic environment for our
activities was globally favorable,” Chief Executive Officer
 Christophe de Margerie  said in the statement. “The group
approaches the second half of 2010 confident in its outlook and
its strategy for growth.”  
 Total approved an interim  dividend  of 1.14 euros a share,
unchanged from last year.  
 “Given the strong cash delivery we are slightly
disappointed,” Jason Kenney, an analyst at ING Wholesale
Banking in Edinburgh, said in an e-mailed note. “There is still
room for an increase in the second half payment.”  
 Refinery throughput fell by 2 percent from a year earlier,
Total said. Refining margins have “pulled back sharply” since
the start of the third quarter, it said.  
 Refinery Availability  
 Total’s refinery utilization rate rose to 83 percent from
77 percent in the first quarter on improved reliability of
refineries and a low level of scheduled turnarounds. Maintenance
affected the Rome and Lindsey refineries in the quarter.  
 The company is reviewing all its deepwater exploration and
production projects including Clov in Angola due to the Gulf of
Mexico spill. A final investment decision is scheduled on Clov
this year. The offshore drilling moratorium also forced Total to
suspend its 2010 Gulf exploration venture with Cobalt
International Energy Inc. which was aimed at plugging a
portfolio gap.  
 ‘We are reminded that safety and the environment must
remain our top priorities in this business,” de Margerie said
today.
      Total  plans to have reduced its global processing capacity
by about a fifth, or 500,000 barrels a day, between 2007 and
2011. About 85 percent of its 2.6 million-barrel-a-day capacity
is in Western Europe, which de Margerie has said isn’t an area
of growth.  
 Legal Battle  
 The French company is locked in a legal battle with a union
over the planned dismantling of its Flanders refinery near
Dunkirk, France. It is planning to sell its 221,000 barrel-a-day
Lindsey oil-processing plant in northeast England.  
 U.S. oil futures averaged $78.05 a barrel in the quarter,
up 31 percent from a year earlier.  
 Total plans to boost output by about 2 percent on average
annually from this year through 2014 after starting fields in
Nigeria, the Gulf of Mexico, Angola and Norway, as well as
liquefied natural gas projects in Yemen and Qatar.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        