-- Total Reports 72% Increase in Quarterly Profit After Raising Production
-- Tara Patel
-- 2010-07-30T15:39:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/total-second-quarter-profit-jumpes-72-after-production-prices-increase.html

          
          
             Total SA , Europe’s third-biggest oil
company, reported a 72 percent increase in second-quarter profit
and said production will grow more than 2 percent this year
because of new developments.  
 Profit  excluding changes in inventories and the value of a
stake in  Sanofi-Aventis SA  rose to 2.96 billion euros ($3.9
billion) from 1.68 billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based
company said today in a statement. That beat the 2.65 billion-
euro mean estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 “These are very strong figures compared to the peer
group,”  Richard Griffith , an analyst at Evolution Securities
Ltd. in London, said in an e-mailed note. “Total has delivered
significant improvements across all of its businesses. Earnings
risks appear to be the upside.”  
 Total’s results follow rising earnings for  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc , which said earlier this week that profit gained 15
percent after production climbed. Italy’s  Eni SpA  reported
adjusted profit of 1.63 billion euros ($2.12 billion), helped by
a stronger dollar. BP Plc had a record loss of $17.2 billion in
the quarter after taking a charge for the Gulf of Mexico spill.  
 Total rose 36 cents, or 0.9 percent, to 38.71 euros as of
5:36 p.m. in Paris. The shares are down 14 percent this year.  
 Yemen Startup  
 Total plans to boost output by about 2 percent, on average,
annually through 2014 after starting fields in Nigeria, the Gulf
of Mexico, Angola and Norway, as well as liquefied natural gas
projects in Yemen and Qatar.  
 “We confirm that 2010 growth should be above this 2
percent average,” Chief Financial Officer Patrick de la
Chevardiere said on a call. Growth in the second half will be
lower than the 6 percent in the first six months, he said.  
 Production  rose 8 percent in the quarter to 2.359 million
barrels of oil equivalent a day from a nine-year low a year
earlier. The company was helped by the start of a second
production unit at its Yemen LNG project, lower OPEC reductions
and improved security in Nigeria.  
 Final investment decisions are also scheduled soon on a
number of projects including the Clov development off Angola.  
 “We are finalizing the last contract on Clov in Angola so
this project is very close to being officially launched,” de la
Chevardiere said. Costs for equipment for Clov are 15 percent to
20 percent lower than two years ago, when price surged, he said.  
 Deepwater Review  
 The company will start Ofon II and Engina in Nigeria “over
the coming months” and may next year sanction Sulige in China,
Ichthys LNG in Australia, Shtokman in Russia and Ahnet in
Algeria, he said. The Ichthys investment decision may come at
the end of 2011 and production may start at the end of 2016, he
said, adding that investments on new projects may rise next year
from $18 billion this year.  
 The company is reviewing its deepwater exploration and
production projects, including Clov, because of the Gulf of
Mexico spill. The offshore drilling moratorium also forced Total
to suspend its 2010 Gulf exploration venture with Cobalt
International Energy Inc.  
 Cobalt drilled three wells as part of the venture and these
encountered “structural complexities,” de la Chevardiere said.
Releasing drilling rigs due to the Gulf moratorium cost Total
between $10 and $25 million, he said.  
 Dividend Disappointment  
 Total approved an interim  dividend  of 1.14 euros a share,
unchanged from last year.  
 “Given the strong cash delivery we are slightly
disappointed,”  Jason Kenney , an analyst at ING Wholesale
Banking in Edinburgh, said in an e-mailed note. “There is still
room for an increase in the second half payment.”  
 Refinery throughput fell by 2 percent from a year earlier,
Total said. Refining margins have “pulled back sharply” since
the start of the third quarter, the company said.  
 Total’s refinery utilization rate rose to 83 percent from
77 percent in the first quarter on improved reliability of
refineries and a low level of scheduled turnarounds. Maintenance
affected the Rome and Lindsey refineries in the quarter.
      Total  plans to have reduced its global processing capacity
by about a fifth, or 500,000 barrels a day, between 2007 and
2011. About 85 percent of its 2.6 million-barrel-a-day capacity
is in Western Europe.  
 Total has received “several non-binding” offers for
Lindsey, which the company wants to sell, de la Chevardiere
said. The 221,000 barrel-a-day Lindsey oil-processing plant is
in northeast England.  
 The French company is locked in a legal battle with a union
over the planned dismantling of its Flanders refinery near
Dunkirk, France.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        