-- Louisiana Reopens Some Fishing Areas After FDA Tests Water Quality
-- Jeran Wittenstein
-- 2010-07-30T06:55:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/louisiana-reopens-some-gulf-fishing-areas-after-fda-tests-confirm-safety.html

          
          
             Louisiana reopened some commercial
fishing areas that were closed due to  BP Plc ’s oil spill in the
Gulf of Mexico, according to an e-mailed statement from the
office of Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal .  
 The  Louisiana Department of Wildlife and Fisheries  reopened
areas for finfish and shrimp east of the Mississippi River in
Orleans, St. Tammany, St. Bernard and Plaquemines parishes
yesterday, the statement said. Tests by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration found that fish in the areas were safe for eating.  
 The reopening of fishing grounds comes after BP capped the
well on July 15, preventing as much as 60,000 barrels of oil a
day from gushing into the ocean. The company is preparing to
pump mud into the well and may seal it with cement, a process
which could begin this weekend, National Incident Commander  Thad Allen  said at a press conference in New Orleans yesterday.  
 “This is great news for our fishermen and seafood,
processors who have been sidelined because of the oil spill,”
Jindal said in the statement. “While these reopenings are a
positive step, we continue to urge the FDA to test samples from
the waters that remain closed so commercial fishermen across our
coast can get back on the water.”  
 The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s
Fisheries Service closed as much as 37 percent of the Gulf of
Mexico to commercial fishing following the spill, which began
when the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig, leased by BP from
 Transocean Ltd. , exploded and caught fire on April 20.  
 Sealing the Well  
 Fishing has been banned in 57,539 square miles (149,026
square kilometers) or 24 percent of the Gulf’s U.S. waters, the
Fisheries Service  said  on July 22, the day about a third of
previously closed areas were reopened.  
 BP still needs to confirm the damaged well is plugged by
intercepting it at the bottom and inserting additional cement as
needed, Allen said yesterday. Lines that will inject mud into
the well from the top also need to be connected securely before
the sealing process can begin, he said.  
 Talks with officials in Louisiana, the state hardest hit,
began yesterday on redirecting cleanup efforts once the spill
ends and no more oil can be skimmed from the surface, Allen said.
Louisiana’s parish presidents will be consulted on the use of
idled fishing boats for the recovery of booms laid to prevent
oil from entering marshes and bays, he said.  
 According to the government, 360 miles (579 kilometers) of
Louisiana’s shores were polluted by oil as of yesterday, of the
total 625 miles of affected coastline.  
 The Gulf of Mexico’s commercial fish and shellfish harvest
was about 1.3 billion pounds (589,670 metric tons) worth $661
million in 2008, according to the  U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency . The Gulf supplied about 73 percent of shrimp in the U.S.,
or 188.8 million pounds worth $367 million that year.  
 Louisiana is the Gulf shrimp leader with 89.3 million
pounds harvested, just below half the Gulf total, followed by
Texas, Alabama, the west coast of Florida and Mississippi.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeran Wittenstein at 
 jwittenstei1@bloomberg.net ;
 Stuart Biggs  in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Julian MacQueen, chief executive officer of Innisfree Hotels, talks about the state of the tourist industry and beaches along the Gulf Coast since the capping of BP Plc's leaking well in the Gulf of Mexico on July 15.
     BP may move up the schedule for its effort to permanently plug the well that caused the largest oil spill in U.S. history. MacQueen speaks with Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
