-- Pakistan Flooding Death Toll Climbs to 408 From 46 as Thousands Stranded
-- Farhan Sharif
-- 2010-07-30T14:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/pakistan-flooding-death-toll-climbs-to-408-from-46-as-thousands-stranded.html

          
          
             Pakistan ’s death toll from flash
floods and heavy rains in the northwest has risen to 408 and may
climb further as thousands are still stranded in the region’s
worst storms.  
 “The final toll will be much higher than we are estimating
now,” Provincial Information Minister  Mian Iftikhar Hussain 
said at a news conference in Peshawar today. The toll has risen
from 46 deaths 36 hours ago.  
 The death toll is on top of the 152 people who died when a
plane crashed in heavy rains near the capital two days ago.
Homes and bridges collapsed in the rain, live electric wires
fell into the water and families were swept away in the floods.  
 “The relief efforts of everyone combined is only five
percent of what’s required,” Mujahid Khan, a spokesman for the
 Edhi Rescue Service , said by telephone from Peshawar today. “We
can see people drowning but we can’t go into the water because
of its high pressure.”  
 Prime Minister  Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani  took an aerial tour
of the province today and ordered his government to rescue
people and provide food supplies to those at safe locations.  
 Floods may reach the southern province of Sindh within the
next few days, federal Information Minister Sumsam Bokhari said
at a news conference in Islamabad today. The Sindh government
has ordered people living along the banks of the River Indus to
be evacuated.  
 Army Troops  
 Army troops equipped with life jackets, motorboats and
heavy rafts were called in yesterday to help move families to
safe locations, the military said in a statement on its  web
site .  
 Pakistani television channels showed images of people
grabbing onto wreckage on flooded roads to keep from being swept
away by the water, drowning goats and buffalo, and makeshift
boats.  
 “All the houses in my village have been destroyed and now
it’s simply a fight for survival for us,” Mehmood Khan, a
tribal elder, said by telephone from Wana, South Waziristan.
“Food supplies have started to run out. We haven’t eaten in 48
hours and the scant food supplies we saved for women and
children may not last long.”  
 The districts of Nowshera, Charsadda, Peshawar, Swat, Lower
Dir and the worst affected, according to the government.  
 The water level in the River Swat crossed 250,000 cusecs
yesterday, the highest since 1929, according to the  National
Disaster Management Agency  in Islamabad.  
 The first spell of the monsoon started on July 22 and
affected the western province of Baluchistan, the disaster
authority said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 Kkhan14@bloomberg.net ;
Farhan Sharif in Karachi at 
 Fsharif2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        