-- Pemex Expects `Important' Increase in 2011 Capital Investments, CFO Says
-- Carlos Manuel Rodriguez
-- 2010-07-30T21:29:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/pemex-expects-important-increase-in-2011-capital-investments-cfo-says.html

          
          
             Petroleos Mexicanos, Latin America’s
largest oil producer, expects to have an “important” increase
in capital investments next year, the company’s chief financial
officer said.  
 Pemex, as the Mexico City-based company is known, may get
300 billion pesos ($23.7 billion) for next year’s investments,
CFO  Carlos Trevino  said today on an earnings conference call.
Pemex expects to spend about 230 billion pesos by year-end,
Trevino said.  
 “It’s still too soon to have a better projection for the
next year,” he said.  
 State-owned Pemex presented a 2011 budget proposal of 400
billion pesos,  Hector Moreira , a company board member, said July
19. After the ministry’s evaluation, the 2011 proposal will be
submitted to Congress and scheduled to be voted on by Nov. 15.  
 So far this year Pemex has invested 92 billion pesos, or 40
percent, of its 2010 investment budget, Trevino said.  
 The company also asked the finance ministry to reduce its
taxes next year and to adjust a cost limit for exploration and
production, Trevino said, without elaborating. If the changes
are approved, Pemex’s capital-expenditure budget may be
increased to close to 350 billion pesos, Trevino said.  
 Pemex plans to offer its first oil exploration and
production contracts under a revised law as soon as September.  
 Performance-Based Contracts  
 “These contracts we’re preparing to launch in the
following months, this September or October at the latest,”
 Carlos Morales , head of the exploration and production unit,
said on the call. The first contracts will apply to reactivated
reserves at wells that had been closed, Morales said.  
 Pemex’s 2011 budget includes projects to increase cash flow
and improve efficiencies, Trevino said, without elaborating.  
 “We see this favorably as long as Pemex’s budget
prioritizes investment,”  David Penchyna , one of two ranking
members from the Institutional Revolutionary Party in the lower
house, said yesterday in an interview at Bloomberg’s Mexico City
office. “We want a clear, sharp proposal from Pemex that
focuses on investment and cuts operating expenses.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos M. Rodriguez  in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        