-- Philippines May Swap New Dollar Debt for Older Notes, Treasurer Tan Says
-- Clarissa Batino
-- 2010-07-30T22:55:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/philippines-may-swap-new-dollar-debt-for-older-notes-treasurer-tan-says.html

          
          
             The Philippines plans to exchange
new longer-dated, dollar bonds for existing securities with
shorter maturities in its first foreign-currency debt swap in
four years, to free up more cash for economic stimulus.  
 “The liability management thrust is aimed at extending
duration, minimizing bunching and gaining cash flow relief as
well as present value savings,” Treasurer  Roberto Tan  wrote in
a mobile-phone message yesterday. The government had received
unsolicited offers from banks seeking to arrange the transaction
and these will be studied, he said, without giving a timeframe.  
 The nation’s last dollar debt exchange was in September
2006, when it issued about $1 billion of new bonds due in 2024
and 2031 for shorter-dated notes, according to Bloomberg data.
It had also engaged in peso debt exchanges.  
 Swapping shorter-dated debt with longer-dated notes will
help Finance Secretary  Cesar Purisima  stretch the government’s
average debt maturity closer to 25 years, from the current 10
years. That will free funds to boost government spending, attain
faster economic growth and narrow the  budget deficit  from a
record during the six-year term of President  Benigno Aquino .  
 “We’d like to see the first 10 years of our maturity to be
in pesos so we won’t be as vulnerable to external shocks,”
Purisima said in a July 27 interview. “We’ll continue to tap
the dollar market for the longer end of our debt management.”  
 Extend Maturities  
 The Philippines has $11.6 billion worth of dollar debt
maturing from 2011 to 2020, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.
A dollar debt exchange is one of the “planned transactions”
this year along with the nation’s first sale of peso notes
overseas, Tan said.  
 President Benigno Aquino’s administration will first need
“clearances” from the central bank on those plans, the
treasurer said.  
 “There’s going to be demand for this because given the
excess liquidity in financial markets, international investors
are in search of higher yields,” said Philippine National Bank
Treasurer  Ricky Cebrero . “There is going to be yield pick up as
investors shift longer. Low interest rates and an improving
sentiment on the Philippines cuts the risks for investors,
allowing them to go longer,” Cebrero said.  
 The average spread on Philippine dollar bonds has shrunk to
182 basis points, or 1.82 percentage points, above similar-
maturity Treasuries this week, from 291 a year ago, according to
 JPMorgan’s EMBI index . That was the lowest premium since April
26. The average spread for  emerging-market debt  on JPMorgan’s
EMBI+ index is 281 basis points as of July 29.  
 Peso Global Bonds  
 The administration of Aquino, who started June 30, aims to
beat its target for economic growth of as much 6 percent this
year and meet the high end of next year’s 7 percent to 8 percent
goal, Economic Planning Secretary  Cayetano Paderanga  said on
July 28. An eight percent growth will be the fastest pace in
three decades, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The Philippines plans its first overseas sale of peso notes
due in five to 10 years next quarter, Purisima said this week.
It will offer similar yields as local debt and will be settled
in U.S. dollars at the prevailing exchange rate, he said.  
 “In our books it will be a peso liability,” Purisima said.  
 The planned issue of global peso debt will “follow the
legal and tax structure” of foreign-currency debt, Tan said on
July 8. Buyers of the nation’s dollar bonds do not pay the 20
percent withholding tax imposed on investors in local securities.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Clarissa Batino  in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        