-- Pilot Shortage May Follow Expanded U.S. Airline Training Rules
-- John Hughes
-- 2010-07-30T19:23:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/pilot-shortage-may-hit-regional-airlines-as-u-s-tightens-training-rules-p.html

          
          
             U.S. regional airlines may have a
tougher time hiring pilots under legislation passed by Congress
mandating at least 1,500 hours of flying, six times higher than
now required.  
 “It could stymie the growth and the income potential of
some of the regional airlines,” said  Jerry Glass , president of
F&H Solutions Group, a labor-relations consulting firm in
Washington. “If you can’t find pilots that meet this new,
higher threshold, then you can’t grow your company.”  
 The U.S. Senate today cleared and sent to President  Barack Obama  the legislation boosting the minimum-experience
requirement from the current 250 hours. The House acted
yesterday, with lawmakers saying they were prompted by a crash
of a plane operated by  Pinnacle Airlines Corp .’s Colgan unit,
which killed 50 people last year near Buffalo, New York.  
 The experience requirement, while boosting safety, may
unintentionally make hiring more difficult during a transition,
said  Kit Darby , a retired United Airlines pilot who runs
KitDarby.com Aviation Consulting LLC.  
 “It interrupts the normal flow of new pilots into the
business by setting a new, dramatically higher experience
level,” said Darby, whose firm is in Peachtree City, Georgia.
“It will take time for current pilots in training to develop
that experience.”  
 U.S. carriers have three years to meet the conditions. The
Federal Aviation Administration can let pilots fly with less
than 1,500 hours should it conclude that academic training
“will enhance safety more” than flying experience, according
to the legislation.  
 Regional Pledge  
 The  Regional Airline Association , which represents commuter
carriers, looks “forward to continuing our efforts with the
FAA” to build upon safety,  Roger Cohen , the Washington group’s
president, said today in a statement.  
 The group represents carriers such as Memphis, Tennessee-
based Pinnacle, Indianapolis-based Republic Airways Holdings
Inc. and  SkyWest Inc.  of St. George, Utah.  
 The requirement may raise costs for carriers because
experienced pilots generally earn higher wages, said  William Swelbar , a research engineer at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, who specializes in airline economics.  
 The requirement could reduce the incentive for large
carriers to continue shifting flights to regional partners that
typically have lower operating costs, Swelbar said.  
 The National Transportation Safety Board said this year
that Colgan Captain Marvin Renslow, who was making the flight on
behalf of  Continental Airlines Inc. , caused the crash near
Buffalo by incorrectly responding to a stall warning in the
cockpit. He died along with all passengers, crew and a person on
the ground.  
 Relatives Lobby  
 Renslow and co-pilot Rebecca Shaw each had more than 1,500
hours of experience when the plane crashed. Renslow, 47, had
3,379 hours and Shaw, 24, had 2,244, according to the NTSB.  
 Pilot union advocates said the crash showed a need for
higher experience requirements, and relatives of victims of the
Colgan accident made more than 30 trips to Washington to push
for a change.  
 If the pilots were more seasoned when they were hired, they
may have avoided pitfalls that led to the crash, Paul Onorato,
president of the Coalition of Airline Pilots Associations, has
said. Onorato said neither pilot had 1,500 hours of experience
when they were hired.  
 Large carriers’ hiring won’t be affected by the change,
because job openings must first be offered to furloughed workers
who already meet the experience requirement, F&H’s Glass said.  
 Job Cuts  
 More than 10,000 pilots, a fifth of the workers, lost jobs
at nine U.S. carriers from 2000 to 2008, as  UAL Corp. ’s United
Airlines,  Delta Air Lines Inc.  and  US Airways Group Inc.  went
through bankruptcy, according to the  Air Line Pilots Association 
union.  
 Larger airlines “remain fully committed to improving the
safest air transportation system in the world,”  James May ,
president of the Air Transport Association trade group in
Washington, said in a statement.  
 The pilot-safety bill also extends through September the
law authorizing financing for the FAA. House and Senate
lawmakers are putting off for now resolving disagreements that
have stalled a longer-term FAA bill. Congress is almost three
years overdue in renewing the FAA authorization.  
 The measure is H.R. 5900.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        