-- PPR Profit Rises as Asian Demand Offsets Gucci in North America
-- Andrew Roberts
-- 2010-07-30T09:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/ppr-first-half-profit-rises-87-boosted-by-clothing-demand-outside-europe.html

          
          
             PPR SA , the owner of Bottega Veneta
and Fnac retail chain, said first-half profit surged 87 percent
as demand for clothing and accessories in Asia offset faltering
wholesale revenue at the Gucci brand in North America.  
 Profit  from continuing operations advanced to 407 million
euros ($531.8 million) from 217.9 million euros a year earlier,
PPR said in a statement. Net income more than doubled to 402.8
million euros after PPR spun off a unit. That beat the 327.5
million-euro average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 The first-half results were a “blowout,”  Simon Irwin , an
analyst at Liberum Capital in London, wrote today in a note.
Irwin recommends buying the stock.  
 Demand for luxury goods is returning as Chinese shoppers
increase discretionary spending and retailers replenish
inventories after the recession. Second-quarter sales at PPR’s
luxury unit  Gucci Group NV  climbed 18 percent, trailing larger
rivals. Both Burberry Group Plc and  Hermes International SCA 
reported a 27 percent increase in the period ended June 30 and
 LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA ’s sales rose 22 percent.  
 Paris-based  PPR  aims to focus on Gucci Group and sporting-
goods maker Puma AG, which are more profitable than other assets
and have better growth prospects outside Europe, PPR Chief
Executive  Francois-Henri Pinault  said in May. The plan may
include selling Fnac, mail-order retailer Redcats and the
Conforama furniture chain, and making acquisitions, Pinault said
at the time. Puma shares fell 6.1 percent yesterday after the
company’s quarterly profit missed estimates. PPR owns 71 percent
of Puma.  
 Puma  
 “PPR has shrugged off yesterday’s weak Puma figures to beat
market expectations convincingly,” in the first half, said  Tony Shiret , an analyst at Credit Suisse in London. Still, Puma’s
results “question the declared aim of establishing a second
main division focused on premium consumer goods.”  
 Gucci saw a “considerable fall” in first-half North
American wholesale revenue, PPR’s Chief Financial Officer  Jean- Francois Palus  said at a meeting today. The first-half sales
were not satisfactory, he said. The Gucci brand is more exposed
to wholesale than others, meaning it has less control over its
sales, according to Sanford C. Bernstein analyst  Luca Solca .  
 PPR  rose as much as 1.65 euros, or 1.6 percent, to 104
euros and traded down 1.2 percent at 101.15 euros as of 11:02
a.m. in Paris trading. The stock has gained 20 percent this
year, giving the maker of Boucheron jewelry and Sergio Rossi
shoes a market value of about 12.8 billion euros.  
 ‘Above Expectations’  
 “After a 54 percent rise in the last 12 months, some
investors could take profits today even though the results are
above expectations,”  Aurelie Husson Dumoutier , an analyst at
Socete Generale in Paris, wrote today in a note. She recommends
buying the stock.  
 First-half recurring operating profit as a percentage of
sales widened to 8.7 percent from 7.5 percent, as each of the
company’s businesses posted higher operating income in the
period, PPR said.  
 Sales increased 3.6 percent at Fnac and 10 percent at
Conforama, France’s second-largest furniture store chain, PPR
said. Conforama will be “significantly” more profitable this
year and may make acquisitions in new markets such as Turkey,
 Chief Executive Officer   Thierry Guibert  said in a June 30
interview.  
 Total first-half sales on the same basis climbed 3.6
percent to 8.14 billion euros. PPR in December spun off its
African distribution unit  CFAO .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        