-- Provincials Avoid `Summer Lull' by Tripling Sales in July: Canada Credit
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-07-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/provincials-avoid-summer-lull-by-tripling-sales-in-july-canada-credit.html

          
          
             Canadian provincial bond sales
reached a record for July and may continue apace after concern
over the European sovereign debt crisis and tensions surrounding
a Group of 20 conference crimped some borrowing.  
 Provinces issued C$7 billion ($6.8 billion) of debt through
July 28, more than triple the 10-year monthly average of C$2.2
billion, according to research by  Warren Lovely , a government
debt strategist at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in
Toronto. Canadian-dollar sales by provinces including Ontario,
Quebec, Saskatchewan and Manitoba totaled C$4.6 billion.  
 “There’s been no summer lull for provincial issuers,”
Lovely said in an e-mail. “With strong investor demand at home
and abroad, there’s little reason to expect a near-term let up
in supply.”  
 Relative yields on provincial bonds, with about C$450
billion outstanding, widened to as much as 71 basis points on
May 21, from 39 basis points on Jan. 15, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index, as investors seeking the safest
assets purchased federal bonds instead on concern deficits in
some European countries could spiral out of control. Spreads
ended yesterday at 59 basis points.  
 Provincial issuance dried up as borrowing costs rose and
Canada hosted G-20 meetings in Toronto in the final week in
June, where demonstrators set police cars on fire and smashed
store and office windows.  
 “European worries have abated over the course of July,”
 Benoit Lalonde , vice president of fixed income at Laurentian
Bank of Canada, said by phone from Montreal. “Appetite for
credit resurfaced and that’s why provinces started to issue.”  
 ‘Ahead of Schedule’  
 Provinces have funded about 41 percent of their borrowing
needs of about C$78 billion for the fiscal year that started
April 1, Lovely said, adding some of them are “nicely ahead of
schedule.” Although many regional governments may have lower
deficits than initially forecast, Lovely expects borrowing
levels to remain at about projected levels as some “pre-fund”
next year’s deficits while conditions are favorable.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to hold Canadian corporate debt rather than the federal
government’s widened to 151 basis points on July 28, from 142
the previous day, according to the Merrill data. Spreads widened
two basis points in July and 17 so far this year.  
 Provincial bonds returned less than 0.1 percent in July,
adding to the 4 percent rise so far this year, according to the
Merrill data. That compares with a loss of 0.4 percent this
month and a gain of 4.1 percent this year for federal government
debt. Corporate bonds lost investors 0.2 percent in July, paring
the 4.2 percent year-to-date return.  
 Nova Scotia Deficit  
 Canada’ gross domestic product rose 0.2 percent in May,
after stalling in April, Statistics Canada will report today,
according to the median of 21 estimates in a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  
 Nova Scotia yesterday reported a deficit of C$241.9 million
for the fiscal year ended March 31, less than the C$488.4
million forecast in April, as personal and corporate taxes rose
and spending cuts kicked in, according to a statement from the
office of Finance Minister  Graham Steele .  
 Nova Scotia issued its first U.S. dollar debt in three
years this month, with the sale of $750 million of five-year
notes, as it took advantage of investor demand for Canadian
fixed income products to diversify sources of funding.  
 “Market tone and volume of issuance picked up in July,
particularly when compared to a slower second quarter,” Nova
Scotia Treasurer  Peter Urbanc  said in an e-mail. “The strong
interest in our five-year U.S. dollar global was evidence of
high cash balances and a strong bid for high quality and rare
issuers.”  
 Pricing in Results  
 Ontario , Canada’s largest province, issued C$15.6 billion
in debt so far this year, about 41 percent of current
requirements, according to CIBC. Quebec, the second largest,
sold C$6.2 billion, or about 50 percent, including CIBC
estimates for pre-funding.  
 Bond markets are “pricing good economic results and the
possibility of lower borrowing requirements,”  Jean-Francois Godin,  a Montreal-based vice-president of fixed income research
at Desjardins Securities Inc., said by phone from Montreal.
“That’s why spreads are moving down. That should help spreads
either tighten or support them where they are.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        