-- Rand Extends Its Weekly Advance After South Africa Posts a Trade Surplus
-- Garth Theunissen
-- 2010-07-30T14:47:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/rand-slips-paring-a-fourth-weekly-advance-on-concerns-over-global-growth.html

          
          
             The rand strengthened, reversing
earlier losses, after a report showed South Africa posted an
unexpected trade surplus last month as a backlog in exports was
cleared after the end of a strike that crippled ports.  
 The currency appreciated for the first time in three days,
gaining 0.4 percent to 7.3285 to the dollar as of 3:56 p.m. in
Johannesburg, from a close yesterday of 7.3458. The increase
extended the currency’s fourth weekly advance to 1.6 percent.
Earlier today, the rand declined as much as 0.4 percent to as
weak as 7.3769.  
 Africa’s biggest economy posted a trade surplus of 5.6
billion rand ($762 million) in June, following a 302 million
rand shortfall the previous month, the South African Revenue
Service said in an e-mailed statement. The median estimate of 12
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg was for a 1.6 billion-rand
deficit.  
 “At first glance today’s surprisingly large trade surplus
could have been regarded as rand-positive from a current-account
and overall balance-of-payments perspective,”  Michael Keenan , a
currency strategist at  Standard Bank Group Ltd.  in Johannesburg,
wrote in a client note. “However, given the anomalies
associated with the port strike activity and World Cup
disruptions we remain of the opinion that the trade balance will
widen over the coming months.”  
 The surplus “was partly due to postponed merchandise
trading activities” due to the 18-day strike by workers at
state-owned rail and port operator Transnet Ltd. in May, the
revenue service said. Exports surged 18 percent to 55.56 billion
rand in June, the same month that South Africa hosted the month-
long soccer World Cup.  
 Deficit  
 An improvement in South Africa’s trade account may curb an
expected widening of the deficit on South Africa’s  current
account , the broadest measure of trade in goods and services.
The current-account shortfall is expected to reach 4.9 percent
of gross domestic product this year and 5.3 percent in 2011, the
National Treasury said on Feb. 17.  
 South Africa relies on foreign purchases of its stocks and
bonds to offset the shortfall and prevent the rand from
weakening. Foreign investors have been net buyers of almost 80
billion rand ($11 billion) of South African stocks and bonds
this year, according to data from the  JSE Ltd. , which operates
the nation’s exchanges. Such inflows have helped the rand surge
28 percent against the dollar since the start of 2009.  
 The rand rallied to a 3 1/2-month high this week as foreign
investors boosted purchases of the nations assets and
speculation increased that a U.K. lender may purchase
Johannesburg-based Nedbank Group Ltd.  
 Nedbank Speculation  
 HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard Chartered Plc are in talks
to buy Old Mutual’s 52 percent holding in Nedbank, the  Financial
Times  reported in  Mark Kleinman ’s “In the Loop” column at the
start of last weekend.  
 “There are still guys out there looking for yield so there
have been strong inflows in South Africa this week, especially
into the bond market,” said  Brigid Taylor , a senior currency
trader at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg. Speculation of a
foreign buyout of Nedbank “helps sentiment” toward the rand,
she said.  
 Government bonds rose, extending a weekly advance, with the
benchmark 13.5 percent security due September 2015 rising 23
cents to 124.68 rand, reducing the yield by 5 basis points 7.58
percent. The bond rose 61 cents in the week, reducing the yield
by 14 basis points.  
 Money-market investors reduced bets that South Africa’s
central bank will reduce its 6.5 percent main rate at its next
meeting on Sept. 9, forward-rate agreements show. The cost of
 three-month contracts for cash in three months  rose 0.5 basis
point from yesterday’s close to 6.23 percent.  
 The so-called three-month FRA rate dropped 9.5 basis points
in the week.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        