-- Bush-Era Tax Cuts Should Remain, House's Pence Says
-- James Rowley
-- 2010-07-30T20:39:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/rangel-reprimand-recommended-by-house-ethics-subcommittee-chairman-says.html

          
          
             U.S. House ethics investigators
recommended that New York Representative  Charles Rangel  be
reprimanded for ethical violations, the chairman of the
investigative subcommittee said today.  
 The four-member investigative committee traded several
settlement offers with Rangel’s lawyers without ever reaching an
agreement that required a vote, said Texas Democratic
Representative  Gene Green , who is chairman of the investigative
subcommittee that presented 13 ethics charges against Rangel
yesterday.  
 The charges included allegations that Rangel improperly
solicited and obtained $8 million in donations from companies
and private foundations with business before Congress to help
finance an academic center to be built in his name at the City
College of New York. The panel was not unanimous in adopting all
of the 13 counts, Green said.  
 “The recommendation we had was a reprimand,” Green told
reporters in Washington today. A reprimand would have to be
voted on by the full House.  
 Green’s comments indicated the investigators’ view of the
degree of severity of Rangel’s alleged ethical wrongdoing. More
serious misconduct can lead to fines or expulsion.  
 The adjudicatory committee would make the recommendation
for any penalty, which would follow a finding of ethical
misconduct.  
 House Approval  
 The full House must approve the more serious penalties such
as reprimand, censure or expulsion, said  Stefan Passantino , an
ethics lawyer in Washington who represented former House
Speakers  Newt Gingrich  and  Dennis Hastert , both Republicans,
before the ethics panel.  
 It would be difficult for lawmakers in either party to
settle on a reprimand for Rangel in light of the charges,
Passantino said. He said the reprimand recommendation “doesn’t
carry a great deal of weight” because it isn’t normally part of
the subcommittee’s procedures.  
 Its disclosure was made “for political purposes” to
“minimize a very bad day” for Rangel and Democrats, said
Passantino.  
 Rangel met with the subcommittee twice in the last two
months as the probe was reaching its conclusion, Green said. He
was questioned under oath last December.  
 Green declined to describe Rangel’s attitude during those
meetings.  
 ‘Didn’t Happen’  
 “If we could have reached a settlement we would have
recommended that,” Green told reporters in Washington. “But
that didn’t happen.”  
 Asked whether the failure to settle the case meant that
Rangel refused to accept a reprimand, Green said “there were
other issues.” He declined to elaborate on those issues.  
 Rangel’s attorneys may have been talking to staff lawyers
on the full Committee on Standards of Official Conduct, Green
said. “But there was no discussion for the last two weeks with
the subcommittee,” he said.  
 Any subsequent settlement talks would have to take place
with the adjudicatory subcommittee that is comprised of four
Republicans and four Democrats, Green said.  
 Republicans on the committee said yesterday that Rangel
passed up numerous chances to settle the case.  
 “Let me be clear that Mr. Rangel” was “given
opportunities to negotiate a settlement during the investigation
phase,” Representative  Michael McCaul , a Texas Republican, said
at the hearing. “We are now in the trial phase.”  
 Bipartisan Majority  
 McCaul’s comments are significant because a bipartisan
majority would be required to approve any settlement that
Rangel’s attorneys might reach with staff attorneys.  
 A public hearing on the charges, which won’t occur until
after Congress returns from its August recess, could be
politically awkward before the November election that will
determine whether the Democrats retain control of the House and
Senate.  
 Connecticut Representative  John Larson , who is chairman of
the House Democratic Caucus, said the case against Rangel is
“gut-wrenching” for his colleagues. Still, Rangel should have
his “day in court, as awkward as that can be” if the veteran
lawmaker chooses not to settle the case, he said.  
 Rangel should be afforded the benefit of the doubt and the
opportunity to answer the charges, Larson said. “You have to
allow for both the integrity of the process and the
individual,” he said.  
 Sponsored Trips  
 Rangel, 80, who has served in Congress since 1971, stepped
down as chairman of the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee in
March after the ethics panel found he had broken House rules by
accepting corporate-sponsored trips to the Caribbean.  
 Members of New York’s congressional delegation rallied
around Rangel, expressing support at their regular meeting,
lawmakers said.  
 “The New York delegation feels very strongly” and is
“very supportive of Charlie Rangel,” particularly “when you
look into what he has done for the city and the nation,” said
Representative  Edolphus Towns , a fellow New York Democrat.
“There is no criminality here.”  
 “Everyone is wishing him the best,” said Democratic
Representative  Jose Serrano , who represents a nearby House
district in the Bronx. “He feels he can be vindicated.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Representative Charles Rangel  
                       
                         
                           Chris Greenberg/Bloomberg News 
                         
                         Representative Charles Rangel, Democrat from New York, attends the House Democratic Forum on Economic Security and Wages in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Representative Charles Rangel, Democrat from New York, attends the House Democratic Forum on Economic Security and Wages in Washington. Photographer: Chris Greenberg/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
