-- U.S. Five-Year Notes Head for Monthly Gain Before Economic-Growth Report
-- Wes Goodman
-- 2010-07-30T04:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/treasury-two-year-notes-head-for-monthly-gain-as-economic-growth-slowing.html

          
          
             U.S. five-year notes led the
Treasury market toward a monthly gain before a Commerce
Department report today that analysts said will show U.S.
economic growth slowed in the second quarter.  
 Debt due in 2015 emerged as a favorite because its shorter
maturity offers safety as the U.S. economy struggles to regain
momentum, while it yields more than two-year notes. Ten- and 30-
year bonds lagged behind because of concern the government will
increase long-term borrowings to sustain the expansion.  
 “People need to fill their portfolios with very safe
assets,” said  Satoshi Okumoto , who helps oversee the equivalent
of $66 billion in assets as a general manager at Fukoku Mutual
Life Insurance Co. in Tokyo. “They are not confident in the
economy.” Fukoku bought Treasuries this month, he said.  
 The five-year note  yielded  1.66 percent as of 12:28 p.m. in
Tokyo, after dropping to a 16-month low of 1.62 percent on July
21. The 1.75 percent security due in July 2015 traded at a price
of 100 14/32, according to BGCantor Market Data.  
 Two-year rates were 0.58 percent, versus the record low of
0.5516 on July 23.  
 U.S. economic growth slowed to 2.6 percent in the second
quarter from 2.7 percent in the first, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 81 economists before the
Commerce Department reports the figure.  Ford Motor Co. , the
second-largest U.S. automaker, said last week that earnings will
fall in the second half as consumers focus on paying off debt.  
 Monthly Returns  
 Five-year Treasuries returned 0.8 percent in July, while
two-year notes gained 0.1 percent, according to indexes compiled
by Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit. The  difference 
between yields on the two securities narrowed to 1.08 percentage
points, the least since April 2009.  
 The broad Treasury market returned 0.2 percent in July, the
Bank of America figures show. By contrast, the MSCI World index
of shares gained 8.3 percent including reinvested dividends.  
 Shorter maturities, those that tend to track the Federal
Reserve’s target for overnight bank lending, rallied as traders
bet the central bank will delay any increases in borrowing costs.  
 Futures on the CME Group Inc. exchange show traders have
reduced the chance that policy makers will raise their  target 
by April to 39 percent from 54 percent a month ago.  
 Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard , who votes on
rates this year, said the central bank should resume purchases
of Treasury securities if the economy slows and prices fall.  
 ‘Japanese-Style Outcome’  
 “The U.S. is closer to a Japanese-style outcome today than
at any time in recent history,” Bullard said, in a research
paper yesterday about the possibility of deflation. Japan has
been struggling to keep prices in its economy from falling for
most of the past decade.  
 The U.S. central bank cut the benchmark interest rate
almost to zero in December 2008 and turned to purchases of
Treasury, housing-agency and mortgage-backed securities as the
main tool for monetary policy.  
 The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, has narrowed to 1.79 percentage points from
this year’s high of 2.49 percentage points in January. The five-
year average is 2.13 percentage points.  
 Ten-year debt handed investors a 0.2 percent loss this
month, and 30-year bonds tumbled 2.6 percent. The  difference 
between 10- and 30-year yields widened to 1.10 percentage points
yesterday, the most in 17 years.  
 “People want to be in the five- and seven-year sectors,”
said  Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury trading at Bank of Nova
Scotia in New York. “They are reaching for yield and there is
not enough yield in the two-year sector. People are not
extending to the 30-year. They are concerned about fiscal
policy.”  
 President  Barack Obama  has increased the U.S. marketable
 debt  to a record $8.1 trillion as he tries to sustain the
nation’s economic expansion.  
 The U.S. Treasury will issue $399 billion of securities
this quarter, compared with a net sales of $343.6 billion from
April through June, a survey by the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association in New York showed.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        