-- Treasuries Gain as Growth Slows, Pushing 2-Year Note Yields to Record Low
-- Susanne Walker
-- 2010-07-30T20:43:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/treasury-two-year-notes-rise-head-for-monthly-advance-before-gdp-report.html

          
          
             Treasuries  climbed, pushing two-year
note yields to the lowest ever, as a government report showing
U.S. economic growth slowed in the second quarter spurred demand
for the world’s safest securities.  
 U.S. notes gained for a fourth month. Economic expansion
cooled to a 2.4 percent annual pace last quarter, lower than
forecast, Commerce Department data showed. Federal Reserve Bank
of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said yesterday the central
bank should resume purchases of Treasury securities if the
economy slows and prices fall.  
 “The GDP report was lackluster and is pointing toward
slower growth,” said  James Collins , a Chicago-based interest-
rate strategist in the futures division at Citigroup Global
Markets Inc., one of 18 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.
“Treasuries are certainly acting as though economic weakness
will be the mainstay.”  
 The two-year  yield  dropped four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to a record low 0.5461 percent at 4:39 p.m. in
New York, according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the
0.625 percent security due in July 2012 rose 2/32, or 63 cents
per $1,000 face amount, to 100 5/32. Ten-year  yields  tumbled
eight basis points to 2.90 percent, a one-week low.  
 Two-year yields slid four basis points this week and six
basis points in July. The 10-year note yield dropped nine basis
points this week and three basis points this month. The 30-year
 bond  had its first monthly loss since March, its yield rising 10
basis points to 3.998 percent.  
 GDP Growth  
 Growth in gross domestic product from April through June
decelerated from a revised 3.7 percent pace in the first three
months of the year, Commerce Department data showed. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 2.6 percent rate.  
 Real GDP growth will average slightly less than a 2 percent
pace in the second half of 2010, according to Wells Fargo & Co.  
 “Our first look at the third quarter and second half of
this year calls for an exceptionally weak third quarter,”  Mark Vitner , a senior economist at the Wells Fargo Securities unit in
Charlotte, North Carolina, wrote in a research report today.  
 The gap between yields on 10- and 2-year notes, known as
the yield curve, touched 2.35 percentage points today, the
narrowest since July 22. It reached a nine-month low of 2.28
percentage points on July 1 and a record high of 2.94 percentage
points in February.  
 Month-End Buys  
 Treasuries also rose as investors purchased longer-term
securities to increase the duration of their portfolios to match
their benchmarks at the end of the month.  
 U.S. government debt extension increased by 0.06 years for
Aug. 1, equal to the extension for July 1 and below 0.09 years
for June 1, according to primary dealer Barclays Plc. Duration
measures how sensitive a bond’s price is to changes in yield.  
 Treasuries briefly pared gains after data from the
Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. showed U.S.
business activity expanded in July at a faster pace than
projected, signaling manufacturing is driving growth. The
measure rose to 62.3. Figures greater than 50 signal expansion.  
 The worst U.S. recession since the 1930s was even deeper
than previously estimated, reflecting bigger slumps in consumer
spending and housing, according to the Commerce Department’s
annual revisions also issued today. The economy shrank 4.1
percent from the fourth quarter of 2007 to the second quarter of
2009, compared with the 3.7 percent drop previously on the
books, the report showed.  
 Quantitative Easing  
 “The U.S. is closer to a Japanese-style outcome today than
at any time in recent history,” Bullard wrote in a research
paper yesterday about the possibility of deflation. “A better
policy response to a negative shock is to expand the
quantitative easing program through the purchase of Treasury
securities.”  
 Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the central
bank is prepared to take further policy actions if the world’s
largest economy “doesn’t continue to improve.” The Fed cut the
benchmark interest rate to a record low range of zero to 0.25
percent in December 2008 and bought Treasury, housing-agency and
mortgage-backed securities as the main tool of monetary policy.  
 A resumption of such purchases isn’t on the horizon,
according to primary dealer Citigroup Inc.  
 “Further balance-sheet expansion is unlikely given the
concerns around size of current balance sheet and the
diminishing returns to further asset purchases,” Citigroup
strategists led by  Amitabh Arora  in New York wrote in a report.  
 Assets on the Fed’s balance sheet totaled $2.33 trillion as
of July 28, according to central bank data issued yesterday.  
 Nomura Holdings Inc., a primary dealer, expects policy
makers to “ease” at their meeting in August. Economists led by
 David Resler  in New York said the Fed may “change the language
of the statement to signal that the balance sheet will remain
expanded and change policy around the MBS program to start
reinvesting pay-downs.”  
 Futures on the CME Group Inc. exchange show traders cut the
probability policy makers will raise the benchmark interest  rate 
by April to 31 percent, from 54 percent a month ago.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        