-- Recession in U.S. Was Even Worse Than Estimated, Revisions Show
-- Shobhana Chandra
-- 2010-07-30T16:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/recession-in-america-was-even-worse-than-estimated-revisions-to-data-show.html

          
          
             The worst U.S. recession since the
1930s was even deeper than previously estimated, reflecting
bigger slumps in consumer spending and housing, according to
revised figures.  
 The world’s largest economy shrank 4.1 percent from the
fourth quarter of 2007 to the second quarter of 2009, compared
with the 3.7 percent drop previously on the books, the Commerce
Department said today in Washington. Household spending fell 1.2
percent in 2009, twice as much as previously projected and the
biggest decline since 1942.  
 “We do tend to get bigger revisions at turning points in
the economy,”  Steven Landefeld , director of the Commerce
Department’s Bureau of Economic Analysis, said in a press
conference this week. On the more positive side, “in the past,
we’ve tended to undershoot the recovery” as well, he said.  
 The data better explain why the  jobless rate  doubled,
reaching a 26-year high of 10.1 percent in October, and has been
slow to subside. The government also boosted personal income
levels for each of the past three years, propelling the savings
rate higher and signaling households are further along the
process of repairing finances.  
 The rebound from the recession has been more subdued in the
last six months of 2009, as the economy grew at an average 3.3
annual pace from July 2009 through December, instead of the 3.9
percent previously projected. By comparison, growth averaged 7.2
percent in the two quarters following the 1981-82 recession,
during which the economy contracted just 2.9 percent.  
 Lehman Collapse  
 The worst quarter of the current economic slump is now the
final three months of 2008, in the immediate aftermath of the
collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. , rather than the first
quarter of 2009. GDP shrank at a 6.8 percent pace from October
to December 2008, exceeding the prior estimate of 5.4 percent,
making it the deepest quarterly drop since 1980.  
 The new data showed the peak of the last expansion occurred
in the fourth quarter of 2007 rather than the second quarter of
2008. The figures are more in sync with the recession chronology
prescribed by the  National Bureau of Economic Research , the
accepted arbiter of U.S. business cycles. The Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based private group determined the slump began in
December 2007, and has yet to announce when it ended.  
 Consumer purchases, which account for 70 percent of the
economy, were cut for each of the past three years, with the
biggest reduction taking place last year. Less spending on
services than previously estimated, including financial services
and auto repair, was responsible for the change.  
 Services Revised  
 Data on services, which make up almost 90 percent of the
economy, are less timely than figures on manufacturing and are
therefore subject to larger revisions, the BEA’s Landefeld said
in the press conference.  
 Efforts are under way that will make it possible for the
government to measure consumer spending at almost all service
industries by 2013, said Landefeld. Starting this year, coverage
will improve to about 39 percent from 19 percent in prior years.  
 Personal income was revised up by $18.2 billion in 2007, by
$152.3 billion in 2008, and by $155.9 billion last year, the
report showed. Part of the reason for the improvement was that
corporate dividends didn’t plunge as much as previously
estimated.  
 Disposable income, or the money left over after taxes, grew
1.5 percent a year on average during from 2007 through 2009,
compared with a prior projection of 1.2 percent.  
 More Savings  
 Higher incomes and less spending meant bigger savings as a
proportion of disposable income, the revisions showed. The
 savings rate  reached 7.2 percent in the second quarter of 2009,
the highest since 1992.  
 “The consumer has made more progress in adjusting toward a
more rational spending philosophy than previously thought,”
 Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in
Stamford, Connecticut, said in a note to clients. “Savings
rates are probably pretty close to where they need to get to on
a long?term basis. Going forward, what we need now is more
employment and income to allow households to spend at a more
robust clip while maintaining a higher savings rate.”  
 Residential construction fell at a 22 percent annual pace
during the 2007-2009 period, one percentage point more than
previously reported for what was already the worst housing slump
since the Great Depression.  
 Less Profit  
 The government revised pre-tax corporate profits down for
each of the three years. The biggest change was a $97.6 billion
reduction, or 7.2 percent cut, in 2008. The drop was mainly
among financial institutions, indicating the financial crisis
was more severe than previously estimated.  
 Price measures including the Federal Reserve’s preferred
inflation gauge -- which tracks consumer spending and excludes
food and fuel -- were little changed during the 2007 to 2009
timeframe, the new figures showed.  
 The revisions are part of the government’s annual updates
derived from broader, more complete, surveys.  
 The Commerce Department also reported today that the
economy grew at a 2.4 percent annual rate from April through
June following a 3.7 percent pace of expansion in the first
quarter that was previously reported as a 2.7 percent gain.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Job seekers look at job listings at the Denver Workforce Center in Denver, Colorado. Photographer: Matthew Staver/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Guy Lebas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, discusses the U.S. second-quarter gross domestic product figures released by the Commerce Department today and the outlook for the economy.
     Growth in the U.S. slowed to a 2.4 percent annual rate in the second quarter, less than forecast, reflecting a larger trade deficit and an easing in consumer spending. Lebas speaks with Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop With Betty Liu.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Linda Yueh, an economist at Oxford University, talks about the outlook for the U.S. economy and stimulus measures.
     She speaks on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown" with Maryam Nemazee.  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
