-- Red Sox Ticket Policy Keeps Sellout Streak Alive With Resellers
-- Christopher Condon
-- 2010-07-30T15:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/red-sox-s-ticket-policy-keeps-sellout-streak-alive-with-help-of-resellers.html

          
          
             They’re called the Fenway Faithful
with good reason. On July 18, Boston Red Sox fans streamed into
Fenway Park for the club’s 600th consecutive sellout, a record
run in Major League Baseball that began in 2003. Players,
coaches and principal owner  John W. Henry , a commodities hedge-
fund billionaire, marked the occasion by tossing 600
commemorative baseballs into the stands.  
 So you’d think Red Sox seats are impossible to score.
Wrong. About 20 percent to 30 percent of tickets trade on what’s
become baseball’s hottest secondary market, according to the
club, making seats available for every game. Usually that means
paying a big premium over face value. But for some games, even
when resale prices fall below face value, tickets end up in the
trash, Bloomberg BusinessWeek reports in its Aug. 2 edition.  
 Craig A. Depken, a professor of economics at the University
of North Carolina at Charlotte, says the team’s practice of
keeping ticket prices lower than what fans are willing to pay
helps fuel the streak. The team can unload all of its seats,
knowing that many will be resold. The risk of being stuck with
unsold tickets shifts to resellers.  
 The official prices “help protect the streak of sellouts,
and the sellouts are a great selling point,” said Depken.  
 The team doesn’t contrive sellouts as a marketing tactic,
says Red Sox Chief Operating Officer  Sam Kennedy . Official
prices are kept below market value to keep them affordable, he
says.  
 Jim Holzman -- owner of Boston-based broker  Ace Ticket 
Worldwide Inc., the biggest reseller of Red Sox seats -- says
he’s happy to do his part for the streak. Before this year’s
first game, he owned 40,000 tickets to games, mostly from season
pass holders eager to make a profit on a portion, or sometimes
all, of their seats. His 38-employee company resells them at a
further markup through its own local ticket stores or online.  
 Rainy April Nights  
 Circumstances don’t always cooperate. When games fall on
cold, rainy April evenings, Holzman says he can get stuck with
“hundreds and hundreds” of unsold tickets. The same thing
happens for some games in late September if the Sox are playing
poorly and are out of contention. Still, no matter how many
tickets wind up in the waste bin at Ace and other brokers, the
team can claim a sellout -- and the streak goes on.  
 New Englanders have a long-running love affair with the Red
Sox and the ballpark  John Updike  famously described as a “ lyric
little bandbox .” Septuagenarians Barbara and Alan Miller have
held season passes for 43 years.  
 Red Sox Nation  
 “Oh, I’m a crazy fan,” Barbara says, from her seat four
rows away from the home team’s on-deck circle. The bond the Sox
enjoy with their fans has grown even stronger since 2004, when
the club claimed its first World Series championship in 86
years. They won it all again in 2007.  
 List prices of tickets at Fenway this season average
$52.32, second-highest behind the Chicago Cubs, according to
 Team Marketing Report . But tickets trade at an average of $89 on
the online secondary market, the highest in baseball, according
to  SeatGeek.com , a forecasting website. Ace is asking $1,435 for
its best seats, which carry a $250 face value, to an Oct. 2 game
against the New York Yankees.  
 Kennedy says the team tries to limit the flow of tickets to
the secondary market. Season tickets are capped at 22,000 of the
37,000 seats in baseball’s smallest park. Buyers can’t purchase
more than eight passes for a single game, and the club holds
back a few hundred tickets for sale on game day.  
 Red Sox management has resisted the one move that could
knock the wind out of the resale market: raising list prices.  
 Obligation to Fans  
 “The reason there is such a robust secondary market is
because we don’t price our tickets at the absolute maximum
dollar amount,” says Kennedy. “Our ownership feels a
responsibility to keep tickets as affordable as possible.”  
 There may be other factors that make underpricing easier
for management to swallow. For starters, the organization
recaptures part of the profit taken by resellers. MLB promotes
StubHub, a unit of  EBay Inc ., whose website provides a
marketplace for buyers and sellers. Part of StubHub’s
commissions on MLB tickets flows back to the teams.  
 The Red Sox in 2007 struck a separate deal with Ace, the
only one of its kind in baseball. The arrangement lets the
broker use the Red Sox logo and call itself an official partner
of the team. Ace agreed to pay an undisclosed sum for
promotional space inside Fenway Park.  
 Economist  Andrew Zimbalist , a professor at Smith College in
Northampton, Massachusetts, says the deal helps the Red Sox
preserve the scarcity “buzz” around the streak.  
 “It means when people go to cocktail parties and say
they’ve got tickets, the people listening are jealous,” he
says.  
 The policy helps the team hedge its bets. For the Oct. 1-3
series against the Yankees, Holzman has been buying tickets
since before the season started. If the Sox remain in the
pennant race, Ace will make a big profit. If the team is out of
the playoff chase and the weather turns nasty, demand could
collapse -- and Holzman could lose millions.  
 “I’m taking some risk off their plate and putting it on
mine,” he says.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Fenway Park  
                       
                         
                           Jim Rogash/Getty Images 
                         
                         The Boston Red Sox and the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim line up before a game at Fenway Park in Boston. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The Boston Red Sox and the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim line up before a game at Fenway Park in Boston. Photographer: Jim Rogash/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
