-- Renault First-Half Profit Beats Estimates on Global Recovery
-- Laurence Frost
-- 2010-07-30T06:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/renault-first-half-profit-beats-estimates-on-global-recovery.html

          
          
             Renault SA, France’s second-largest
carmaker, posted a first-half profit that beat estimates as the
global economic recovery boosted demand for autos.  
 Net income was 780 million euros ($1.02 billion), compared
with a 2.73 billion-euro loss a year earlier, the carmaker said
in a statement distributed at its headquarters in the Paris
suburb of Boulogne-Billancourt. Analysts had expected profit of
377 million euros, based on the average of  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales rose 23 percent to 19.67 billion euros.  
 The French carmaker’s profit rebound follows improved
earnings announced earlier this week at  Volkswagen AG  and
domestic rival PSA Peugeot Citroen SA. Renault slashed its net
industrial debt by 1.26 billion euros, or 21 percent, to 4.66
billion euros in the first six months.  
 “These numbers are better than expected, but then so were
Peugeot’s and Volkswagen’s,” said  Gaetan Toulemonde , a Paris-
based Deutsche Bank AG analyst who recommends buying the shares.
“What’s particularly reassuring here is the way Renault has cut
back its debt.”  
 The move reduces financing costs ahead of a challenging
second half for carmakers as more European governments withdraw
scrapping incentives.  Renault  predicts a full-year European
market contraction of between 7 percent and 9 percent.  
 “The third quarter will be important in determining
visibility for the full year and the start of 2011,”  Renault 
said today.  
 First-Half Profit  
 The maker of Megane, Clio and Laguna cars recorded first-
half recurring operating profit of 780 million euros, or a 4
percent return on  sales , compared with a 620 million-euro loss a
year earlier.  
 The main auto division recorded a 2.2 percent operating
margin and sales of 18.78 billion euros, a 24 percent gain,
Renault said. Purchasing cost cuts contributed 330 million euros
to  earnings , while lower raw-material costs saved an additional
112 million euros.  
 Cost cuts introduced to weather the crisis “are paying
off,” Renault Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said in the
statement. “In an uncertain environment in the second half of
2010, the group will continue to focus on its key target of
generating positive free cash flow.”  
 The manufacturing arm’s free cash flow was “slightly ahead
of plan” at 1.42 billion euros, compared with 848 million euros
a year ago,  Renault  said, without elaborating on the internal
objectives.  
 The French carmaker recorded 823 million euros in overall
net income -- before the deduction of earnings attributable to
shareholders of other companies that Renault consolidates in its
accounts.  
 Nissan Motor Co. , Renault’s 43 percent-owned Japanese
affiliate, yesterday reported a profit of 106.6 billion yen
($1.22 billion) for its fiscal first quarter ended June 30,
compared with a 16.5 billion yen loss a year earlier.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The manufacturing arm’s free cash flow was “slightly ahead of plan” at 1.42 billion euros, compared with 848 million euros a year ago, Renault said, without elaborating on the internal
objectives. Photographer: Markel Redondo/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
