-- Ribs, Sun, Booze Chart Fun on N.Y.C. Pier 66 Frying Pan, Barge
-- Paul Goguen
-- 2010-07-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/ribs-sun-booze-chart-good-times-on-manhattan-pier-66-frying-pan-barge.html

          
          
             I flipped the levers to no avail.
Clearly the motor that raises the anchor on this old lightship
was toast and the thing was going nowhere.  
 I moved along to another part of the hull and discovered
that someone had cut the power to the ship’s DJ booth, leaving
the makeshift dance floor in steerage completely deserted.  
 So I climbed out of the boat’s hull and onto the adjacent
barge where the solution to my problems became clear.  
 “A bucket of  Corona  and an order of ribs please,” I said
to the bartender.  
 You can have a lot of fun playing captain, DJ, pirate or
whatever else seizes your heat-addled brain aboard the floating
complex of barge and boats tethered together at Pier 66 Maritime
in the Hudson River. The 326-foot former  Delaware, Lackawanna
and Western  railroad car barge is located on 26th Street in
Manhattan.  
 Get yourself a drink, order some food and drop anchor at
any of the tables set up all over the complex.  
 This place is great for channeling your inner 12-year-old
with a drink in your hand. The old caboose near the entrance is
a reminder that this was once a crucial way of getting cargo on
and off Manhattan long before today’s bridges and tunnels.  
 One can imagine steam locomotives from decades past hauling
train cars loaded with all manner of goods, puffing plumes of
smoke into the air. Getting loaded here has a much different
meaning than it did back in those days.  
 Sweeping Views  
 Climb up to the top deck of the historic lightship and
enjoy the sweeping views of Manhattan and the river while
downing surprisingly well-made food and drinks. Helicopters from
the West Side heliport buzz in and out while marine craft troll
up and down the river. It is hard not to have fun here at
arguably the best outdoor drinking establishment in Manhattan.  
 According to  Pier 66 Maritime  manager David Robinson,
people do like to drink here. “In the summertime we sell more
Corona than any other bar in the United States,” he told me.  
 Food selections include the usual burger and fries ($9.22)
or chopped vegetable burger ($9.22). The lemon-herb chicken
breast wrap ($10.15) was quite good and came with a salad.  
 Have some St. Louis-style barbecued spare ribs ($10.10) or
a well-prepared Jamaican jerk-rubbed half-chicken (14.76). Wash
it all down with your favorite beverage from the full bar. A
bucket of Corona and ice for $35 is a good way to beat the heat.
(Prices are subject to change depending on the time and the day
of the week).  
 Bikes are tolerated and there are plenty of places to lock
them up. But steep staircases leading to the restrooms, catwalks
above the river and industrial debris make this place not very
kid-friendly.  
 Pier 66 Maritime is open from May through October from noon
until midnight, seven days a week. It is located at West 26th
Street and the West Side Highway in Hudson River Park. For more
information: +1-212-989-6363.  
 ( Paul Goguen  is a multimedia producer for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. All opinions expressed
are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this story:
Paul Goguen in New York at 
 pgoguen1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A bucket of Corona at Pier 66 Maritime in New York. It sells for $35. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The dance floor and stage in the hull of the light ship Frying Pan at Pier 66 Maritime in New York. Pier 66 Maritime is open from May through October, from noon until midnight, seven days a week and is located at West 26th Street and the West Side Highway in Hudson River Park. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Jamaican jerk-rubbed chicken at Pier 66 Maritime on the Hudson River in New York.  Pier 66 Maritime is located at West 26th Street and the West Side Highway in Hudson River Park. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Cases of Corona at Pier 66 Maritime on the Hudson River in New York.  Pier 66 Maritime sells more Corona in the summer than any other bar in the U.S. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Frying Pan Bar  
                       
                         
                           Paul Goguen/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A bar is set up below deck on the light ship Frying Pan. Pier 66 Maritime sells more Corona in the summer than any other bar in the U.S. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A bar is set up below deck on the light ship Frying Pan. Pier 66 Maritime sells more Corona in the summer than any other bar in the U.S. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     An anchor mechanism is disabled below deck on the light ship Frying Pan on Pier 66 Maritime in New York. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A DJ booth is set up below deck on the lightship Frying Pan at Pier 66 Maritime on the Hudson River in New York. Pier 66 Maritime is open from May through October, from noon until midnight, seven days a week. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A cruise ship passes by the light ship Frying Pan at Pier 66 Maritime in New York. The decommissioned ship has a bar and dance floor below deck. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A party room in the light ship Frying Pan at Pier 66 Maritime in New York. The vessel also has a bar and DJ booth below deck. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A lemon-herb chicken breast wrap at Pier 66 Maritime in New York. Other menu items include steamed lobster, jerk chicken and ribs. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A jumbo lump crab meat cocktail at Pier 66 Maritime in New York. Other items on the menu include charcoal-grilled beef skewers, jumbo shrimp cocktail and Hebrew National hot dogs. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The light ship Frying Pan and retired fire boat John J. Harvey at Pier 66 Maritime in New York. Pier 66 Maritime, a former railroad barge, was purchased to be a permanent home for the historic lightship Frying Pan. The historic fireboat John J. Harvey followed shortly after. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
