-- RIM Said to Plan Tablet for November to Take on Apple's IPad
-- Hugo Miller
-- 2010-07-30T16:25:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/rim-said-to-plan-tablet-for-november-to-take-on-apple-s-ipad.html

          
          
             Research In Motion Ltd. , maker of
the BlackBerry smartphone, plans to introduce a tablet computer
in November to compete with  Apple Inc. ’s iPad, according to two
people familiar with the company’s plans.  
 The device will have roughly the same dimensions as the
iPad, which has a 9.7-inch diagonal screen, said the two people
who wouldn’t be identified because the plans haven’t been made
public. The device will include Wi-Fi and Bluetooth wireless
technology that will allow people to connect to the Internet
through their BlackBerry smartphones, the two people said.  
 RIM is racing to come out with a product to rival the iPad
in the fast-growing market for devices that bridge the gap
between smartphones and notebook computers.  Apple , based in
Cupertino, California, last month said it sold 3 million iPad
tablet computers in 80 days after they debuted in the U.S.  
 “They can’t wait for a second generation of devices from
Apple or they’ll fall too far behind,” said  Ashok Kumar , an
analyst with Rodman & Renshaw Inc. in New York.  
 RIM rose $1.45, or 2.6 percent, to $57.15 at 12:18 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, reversing an earlier
decline of as much as 2.5 percent. The stock had dropped 18
percent this year before today, as Apple had climbed 22 percent.  
 Marisa Conway , a spokeswoman for RIM, declined to comment,
citing company policy not to comment on rumor or speculation.  
 Blackpad Pricing  
 RIM plans to call the tablet Blackpad, according to one of
the people familiar with the company’s plans. RIM, based in
Waterloo, Ontario, acquired the Internet rights to blackpad.com
this month, according to the  Whois database  of domain names.  
 Pricing for the device will be in line with the iPad, which
starts at $499, the person said. RIM is focused on reaping
additional profits from the tablet effort, rather than competing
on price to sell a large number of devices, the person said.  
 RIM is stepping up its competition with Apple on multiple
fronts. The company is hosting an event in New York Aug. 3 at
which it will debut its BlackBerry 9800 slider phone, according
to one person familiar with its plans. The device will feature a
full touchscreen like Apple’s iPhone and a slideout Qwerty
keyboard to allow for easy e-mail typing, the person said.  
 RIM plans to use the phone to regain the market share it
has lost recently to its U.S. rival. RIM’s share of the
smartphone market fell to 19.4 percent of global shipments in
the first quarter from 20.9 percent a year earlier, according to
researcher IDC, based in Framingham, Massachusetts. Apple
claimed 16.1 percent of the smartphone market, up from 10.9
percent a year earlier.  
 Uphill Battle?  
 In the tablet market, RIM will have to demonstrate how its
device can stand out against products including the iPad, which
has attracted buyers because of its integration with Apple’s
iTunes service and many software applications, or apps. More
than 225,000 apps are available for Apple devices, the company
said in June. RIM said in April it had more than 6,000 apps.  
 “With the success of the iPad, RIM faces an uphill
battle,” said  William Power , an analyst at Robert W. Baird &
Co., who has a “neutral” rating on the stock. “RIM really has
yet to demonstrate that it can roll out touchscreen technology
to match the leaders in the space, most noticeably Apple.”  
 RIM’s tablet will capitalize on the BlackBerry’s e-mail
capabilities and the phone’s popularity with corporate users,
one person said. The tablet will be closely integrated with the
smartphone’s e-mail system and will have similar security for
messaging, the person said.  
 Cameras for Video  
 Wi-Fi would allow the device to connect to the Internet
anywhere the wireless technology is available, including a home,
office or coffee shop. When not near such Wi-Fi “hotspots,”
people could connect wirelessly to their mobile phone with
Bluetooth and then to the Internet. The device will not be able
to connect directly to the cellular network the way some iPads
can, the two people said.  
 The RIM tablet will also have front- and back-facing
cameras for videoconferencing, Rodman & Renshaw’s Kumar said,
citing sources at suppliers in Asia.  
 “I don’t think it’s a zero-sum game,” he said, saying
that innovation by Apple, RIM and other competitors will
increase the size of the tablet market.  
 Hewlett-Packard Co. , which bought smartphone maker Palm
Inc. this month, said it plans to produce a tablet device that
runs on Microsoft Corp.’s Windows operating system. Korea’s LG
Electronics Inc. said this month it plans to introduce a tablet
computer in the fourth quarter that runs on Google Inc.’s
Android software. Microsoft Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  said yesterday the software company plans to increase
its focus on tablets.  
 -- Editors:  Peter Elstrom ,  Ville Heiskanen   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Research in Motion Ltd. (RIM) Blackberry smartphone is photographed in London. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
