-- Risk Appetite Fuels Shareholder Payouts as Warner Chilcott Seeks Financing
-- Emre Peker
-- 2010-07-30T20:07:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/risk-appetite-fuels-shareholder-payouts-as-warner-chilcott-seeks-financing.html

          
          
             Warner Chilcott Plc , the Irish maker
of birth-control pills, is leading companies tapping lenders to
finance shareholder payouts as rising demand for leveraged loans
allows companies to take on more debt.  
 The company said it plans to issue $2.25 billion of new
senior secured term loans and unsecured debt for a $2.15 billion
dividend. Airvana Inc., owned by private-equity investors
including  Blackstone Group LP , and Schaumburg, Illinois-based
Global Brass and Copper Inc. are also seeking loans for payouts.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Bank of
America Corp. are leading banks financing deals that increase
companies’ debt after the  S&P/LSTA US Leveraged Loan 100 Index 
rallied 2.25 percent in July, the most since March. Speculative-
grade borrowers are taking advantage of investor demand to fund
dividends before U.S. taxes on payouts jump 2.6 times and as
second-quarter  earnings  beat analyst expectations even as growth
in the economy slowed.  
 “Investor appetite for risk is growing and all of the
horrible things of the past two years are fading from memory and
we could be back in a new cycle,” said  Robert Willens ,
president of Robert Willens LLC. “Companies are a little more
sanguine about the business outlook and they feel that replacing
equity with debt is a prudent thing to do.”  
 Taxes on dividends are slated to jump to 39.6 percent next
year from the current rate of 15 percent, which was adopted in
2003 by former-President  George W. Bush  and a Republican-
controlled Congress. President  Barack Obama ’s budget, sent to
Congress Feb. 26, would limit the increase to 20 percent.  
 ‘Last Bite’  
 “Right from the beginning of the year we were expecting a
flurry of special dividends in the second half of the year to
take advantage of this last bite at the apple on the lower
rates,” said Willens, who previously was a managing director in
charge of tax and accounting analysis at Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  
 So-called dividend deals, which permeated debt markets in
2006 and 2007 before the credit seizure, accelerated at the
beginning of the year. Companies ceased issuing debt for
shareholder payouts after April amid investor concern that
Europe’s debt crisis, dropping U.S. consumer confidence and
uncertainty over the future of financial regulation might derail
the economic recovery.  
 Gross domestic product in the world’s largest economy grew
at a 2.4 percent annual pace, less than forecast, after a 3.7
percent first-quarter gain that was larger than previously
estimated, according to Commerce Department data issued today.  
 2010 Dividend Deals  
 The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its  business barometer  rose to 62.3 this month, exceeding the
median  forecast  of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. It was
at 59.1 in June; figures greater than 50 signal expansion.  
 Of the U.S. companies that reported earnings for the period
ended June 30, 77 percent beat analyst expectations, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 There were five dividend deals that raised an aggregate
$900 million in loans in all of last year, according Standard &
Poor’s Leveraged Commentary and Data.  
 This year, 31 junk-rated companies borrowed a monthly
average of $2.18 billion through April before the number of
issuers fell to two in May and volume dropped to $400 million,
the data show. The number of deals rose to four in June and
seven in July as monthly loan volume climbed above $2 billion.  
 High-yield, high-risk borrowers are rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by S&P.  
 ‘Re-Levering of America’  
 “Companies are on the hook to try and reward equity
holders and with the cost of capital coming down so fast and so
far in high-yield debt markets, it sets up a strong economic
incentive to float debt and buy back stock or provide
dividends,” said  Christopher Garman , chief executive officer of
Garman Research LLC in Orinda, California. “We are beginning to
see another re-levering of America.”  
 Warner Chilcott said the transaction depends on an
amendment to its existing credit facilities, which would allow
it to borrow more for the payout. The Ardee, Ireland-based
pharmaceutical company said it expects to pay the $8.50 per
 share  dividend by Sept. 30.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Bank of
America Corp. will arrange the amendment, according to a person
familiar with the talks, who declined to be identified because
the terms are private.  
 Moody’s Ratings  
 “The dividend will increase Warner Chilcott’s financial
leverage,” Moody’s analyst  Michael Levesque  said today in a
report. The ratings company said it stood by Warner Chilcott’s
corporate and senior secured credit facility rating of B1, four
levels below investment grade. “The rating affirmation also
reflects good free cash flow and the company’s prior history of
deleveraging.”  
 Rochelle Fuhrmann , a spokeswoman for Warner Chilcott,
didn’t return a phone call and an e-mail seeking comment.  
 Warner Chilcott rose $1.21, or 4.96 percent, to $25.60, at
4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market, reaching the
highest price since May 13.  
 Bank of America initiated negotiations Jan. 20 to lower
interest rates on Warner Chilcott’s $2.95 billion of bank debt.
Lenders led by  Stanfield Capital Partners LLC  and Oak Hill
Advisors LP objected to the transaction on concern it would
trigger a return to loose lending standards.  
 In October, Warner Chilcott borrowed $1 billion in a term
loan A with a 3.25 percent margin over the London interbank
offered rate and $1.95 billion in a term loan B with a 3.5
percentage point spread over the lending benchmark to finance
its acquisition of Procter & Gamble Co.’s prescription-drug
unit, according to Bloomberg data. The amendment would have
reduced term loan B’s interest rate.  
 Airvana, Global Brass  
 Airvana increased pricing on its $330 million loan to fund
a dividend and refinance debt, according to a person familiar
with the transaction. The Chelmsford, Massachusetts-based maker
of telecommunications gear plans to use $175 million of the
proposed debt for a shareholder payout.  
 Global Brass & Copper Inc. will use a $330 million senior
secured term loan due 2015 to refinance existing debt and fund a
distribution to the equity sponsor, according to an S&P report.  
 New York-based analysts  Maurice Austin  and  Marie Shmaruk 
rated the proposed debt B, five levels below investment grade.  
 The rating “reflects the combination of the company’s
vulnerable business risk profile and aggressive financial risk
profile,” Austin wrote. S&P cited the company’s exposure to
cyclical end-markets such as building and construction that can
lead to “wide variations in operating performance.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emre Peker  in New York at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        