-- Rubber Futures in Tokyo Advance in July, First Monthly Gain Since March
-- Supunnabul Suwannakij
-- 2010-07-30T08:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/rubber-drops-after-touching-three-week-high-as-japan-growth-poised-to-slow.html

          
          
             Rubber futures rose 1.3 percent in
July, the first monthly advance since March.  
 January-delivery rubber on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange
dropped as much as 0.7 percent after an unexpected drop in
Japan’s industrial production raised concerns that demand may
weaken. The contract settled little changed at 272.7 yen a
kilogram ($3,158 a metric ton) as an advance in the nearby
contract and speculation Chinese buyers may build up declining
stockpiles provided support.  
 Japan’s unemployment unexpectedly rose for a fourth
straight month and industrial production fell the most in more
than a year, signaling economic expansion is poised to slow.  
 “Japan’s bearish economic data soured sentiment,
pressuring the market lower,” Varut Rungkhum, analyst at
commodity broker Agro Wealth Ltd., said by phone from Bangkok.
“A strong yen is also weighing on the market,” he said.  
 Japan’s jobless rate climbed to a seven-month high of 5.3
percent in June, a statistics bureau report showed today in
Tokyo. Factory  output  slid 1.5 percent from May, compared with
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists for
a 0.2 percent gain.  Consumer prices  excluding fresh food
declined 1 percent from a year before.  
 Low Inventories  
 Low stockpiles in China and Japan provide optimism that
buyers will soon replenish inventories, Varut said.  
 Data from the Tokyo exchange showed last week that natural
rubber stockpiles monitored by the bourse dropped 29 percent to
1,341 tons as of July 10. That’s the lowest level since at least
2001, according to exchange spokesman Seiki Ichimura.  
 Natural-rubber stockpiles in China decreased 2,046 tons to
19,328 tons, based on a survey of 10 warehouses in Shanghai,
Shandong, Yunnan, Hainan and Tianjin, the  Shanghai Futures
Exchange  said on July 23.  
 January-delivery rubber on the Shanghai Futures Exchange
gained 1 percent to 23,965 yuan ($3,538) a ton.  
 The nearby contract in Tokyo advanced on optimism over
increasing car demand in China and India, Katsumi Kinoshita,
senior manager for institutional department at Orion Koeki Ltd.
said by phone from Kobe. August-delivery rubber surged 1.1
percent to settle at 303.8 yen.  
 Thailand’s supplies are likely to improve as rainfall is
expected to subside next week, according to the Rubber Research
Institute of Thailand. The Thai price gained 0.5 percent to
103.9 baht ($3.22) a kilogram today.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        