-- Rusal, Partners Ready to Buy Out Potanin Stake in Norilsk, Deripaska Says
-- Ilya Khrennikov
-- 2010-07-30T17:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/rusal-partners-ready-to-buy-out-potanin-stake-in-norilsk-deripaska-says.html

          
          
             United Co. Rusal  is ready to buy out
the stake in  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel  held by  Vladimir Potanin ’s
Interros Holding Co. to end a shareholder dispute and boost the
value of Russia’s biggest mining company.  
 Norilsk Nickel would be able to “significantly” raise its
market value in six months with more efficient management and by
selling underperforming assets, Rusal Chief Executive Officer
Oleg Deripaska told reporters today in his Moscow office. Such
assets include U.S. precious-metals producer  Stillwater Mining
Co. , utility  OAO OGK-3  and treasury stock, he said.  
 Rusal, which owns 25 percent of Norilsk, wants to replace
the nickel producer’s management, Deripaska said. The
billionaire is challenging a June 28 election that gave board
control to Interros and Norilsk executives.  
 “We disagree with these groundless accusations,” Norilsk
Nickel said today by e-mail. Interros hasn’t received a proposal
from Rusal offering to buy its stake in Norilsk, a press
official, who declined to be identified citing company policy,
said by phone.  
 Interros owns at least 25 percent of Norilsk after
Potanin’s former business partner  Mikhail Prokhorov  sold his
stake to Deripaska in 2008. Interros gained control of Norilsk
through state asset sales in 1995-1997.  
 Buyback, Dividend  
 Rusal is disputing the board election, saying Potanin’s
Interros had agreed in 2008 to support its nominee for board
chairman,  Alexander Voloshin , ex-chief of staff to former
presidents  Boris Yeltsin  and  Vladimir Putin . Interros has said
Rusal failed to garner enough votes to re-elect Voloshin.  
 Deripaska says he’s concerned Interros has enough influence
on Norilsk’s board to pass a share buyback, after the board
approved dividends of $1.33 billion.  
 Deripaska said he opposes a share buyback for Norilsk and
sought dividends of $3 billion for last year during discussions
with Interros in April. The Interros official said different
options have been discussed for distributing profits and
declined to elaborate.  
 Rusal will call an extraordinary meeting of Norilsk
shareholders, seeking to re-elect the board as soon as it
prepares legal documents to force Interros to vote in accordance
with a 2008 shareholder agreement, Deripaska said. Restoring
Voloshin to Norilsk’s board will require approval of 50 percent
of shareholders who attend,  Maxim Sokov , Rusal’s head of
strategy, said.  
 “We have held in-depth talks with a large number of
Norilsk minorities, investment funds and received their
support,” Deripaska said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        