-- Russia Must Boost Transparency Before Asset Sales Proceed, Lebedev Says
-- Ryan Chilcote
-- 2010-07-30T09:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/russia-must-boost-transparency-before-asset-sales-proceed-lebedev-says.html

          
          
             Russian state-run companies must
improve corporate governance to ensure the success of the
government’s asset-sale program, billionaire  Alexander Lebedev 
said today.  
 The government aims to raise as much as 700 billion rubles
($23 billion) from the disposals in 2011-2013 to help narrow the
budget deficit, Economy Minister  Elvira Nabiullina  said
yesterday. The sales may bring in 883 billion rubles during the
period, Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  said this week.  
 “These serious intentions are going to be hindered by the
lack of transparency of what they’re going to be selling,”
Lebedev, 50, who owns London’s Evening Standard newspaper, said
in an interview in Moscow. “What’s the point of privatizing
companies like that? Who is going to buy them?”  
 The Finance Ministry has proposed selling minority stakes
in companies including the two largest lenders, OAO Sberbank and
VTB Group, OAO Russian Railways, shipper OAO Sovcomflot, the OAO
RusHydro utility, Russian Agricultural Bank and OAO Agency for
Housing Mortgage Lending.  
 Sales of stakes in Russian Railways and the Agency for
Housing Mortgage Lending may be delayed for two to three years,
according to Kudrin. Shares in OAO Rosneft, Russia’s largest oil
producer, may be sold in three to five years, he said on July
28. He declined to name other companies, saying the list hasn’t
been completed.  
 Cut Bureaucracy  
 In addition to shrinking its control of the  economy , the
government should cut bureaucracy by simplifying the process for
licensing businesses and putting the private sector in charge of
granting licenses where possible, Lebedev said.  
 “If they are really serious about doing this, they should
conceptually change the entire government policy,” said
Lebedev, whose fortune was estimated at $2 billion by Forbes
Magazine in May. “A part of this is the judicial system and the
lack of competitiveness in the political system.”  
 Russia is the world’s 20th riskiest place to do business,
according to Maplecroft, a Bath, England-based risk-management
adviser. The firm’s study of 172 countries ranks respect for the
rule of law, property rights, access to the legal system,
corruption, corporate governance and regulatory frameworks.
India was the 59th riskiest and Poland was ranked 124th.  
 Russia had a deficit of 5.9 percent of gross domestic
product last year, the first shortfall since 1999, as the
economy contracted a record 7.9 percent. The government seeks to
narrow the gap to 3.6 percent next year, 3.1 percent in 2012 and
2.9 percent in 2013.  
 On top of asset sales, the government may raise taxes on
oil and natural gas extraction and some metals exports, and tap
bond markets to narrow the deficit.  
 The state will retain controlling stakes in any major
companies, Kudrin said. The sales plan should be clarified in
September and the list finished by year-end, he said.  
 “Pronouncements about this were around for a couple of
years at least,” said Lebedev, who controls OAO National
Reserve Bank, owns shares in national airline OAO Aeroflot and
styles himself Europe’s biggest potato farmer. “We will be
waiting for facts,” he told Bloomberg Television.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        