-- Russian Wildfires Kill 25 as Record Heat Wave Prompts States of Emergency
-- Torrey Clark
-- 2010-07-30T14:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/russian-farm-crisis-spreads-as-wildfires-kill-five-leave-2-178-homeless.html

          
          
             Wildfires in central Russia claimed
25 lives as drought and record heat forced the government to
declare a state of emergency in four more crop-producing
regions.  
 The fires destroyed 1,170 houses and left 2,178 people
homeless as of 4 p.m. today,  Irina Andrianova , a spokeswoman for
the Emergency Situations Ministry, said by telephone. Two
firefighters were among the dead, she said, adding that the
Moscow, Nizhny Novogorod, Ryazan and Voronezh regions are the
worst-hit.  
 Drought ruined plantings on at least 10.3 million hectares
(25.5 million acres), compared with 10 million hectares a week
earlier, an Agriculture Ministry spokeswoman, who declined to be
identified in line with official policy, said today. A state of
emergency has now been declared to a total 27 regions.  
 Moscow set a heat record for the second time in a week
yesterday, with temperatures in the Russian capital reaching
37.8 degrees Celsius (100 degrees Fahrenheit), the hottest since
records began 130 years ago. The worst drought in a decade may
lead to grain prices doubling this year, the Grain Producers’
Union has said, causing inflation to quicken.  
 Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , on a trip to the region
around Nizhny Novgorod, about 400 kilometers (250 miles) east of
the capital, said people who lose their homes to the fires will
receive 200,000 rubles ($6,610) in compensation, split between
the federal and regional governments.  
 Amphibious Aircraft  
 Putin said prosecutors will investigate the performance of
local officials in fire-affected areas. His comments in the
village of Verkhnyaya Vereya were broadcast on state television.  
 President  Dmitry Medvedev  ordered the government to take
 emergency measures  to fight the forest fires, and called for
proposals on the purchase of additional fire-fighting equipment,
including amphibious Be-200 aircraft, the Kremlin said on its
website.  
 Seven people died when a thunderstorm accompanied by high
winds struck the Leningrad region around St. Petersburg, RIA
Novosti reported, citing an unidentified Emergency Situations
Ministry official.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patrick Henry  in Moscow at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net ;
 Torrey Clark  in Moscow at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        