-- Russia Leaves Benchmark Interest Rates Unchanged as Economy Gathers Pace
-- Maria Levitov
-- 2010-07-30T11:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/russia-leaves-benchmark-interest-rates-unchanged-as-economy-gathers-pace.html

          
          
             Russia’s  central bank  left its main
interest rates unchanged for a second month as an economic
recovery in the world’s biggest energy exporter gathers speed
and after inflation slowed.  
 Bank Rossii kept the  refinancing rate  at a record low 7.75
percent, it said on its website today, as forecast by all 21
economists in a Bloomberg survey. It also left the repurchase
rate charged on one- and seven-day loans unchanged at 6.75
percent. The regulator last trimmed rates on May 31.  
 “Positive trends were seen in macroeconomic indicators,”
the bank said in a statement. “Significant signs of recovering
economic activity are the continued dynamic growth of capital
investment and retail sales, as well as a further growth of
credit volume in the banking sector.” If these trends stay
unchanged, the current level of rates will be acceptable for
“the coming months.”  
 The Economy Ministry will raise its forecast for growth
this year from 4 percent after household demand boosted output
last quarter, Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said on
July 27. Gross domestic product rose an annual 5.4 percent in
the three months through June, he said. GDP advanced 2.9 percent
in the first quarter, the statistics office says.  
 Fairly Fragile  
 “ Economic growth  continues but it hasn’t become
investment-oriented to the necessary extent,” Klepach said.
“The sub-components of growth remain fairly fragile with the
exception of consumer demand.”  
 Russia will experience “moderate” growth from 2011 to
2013 and won’t reach pre-crisis levels of GDP until the fourth
quarter of 2012, Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  said on July 28.
“We’ll just be emerging from the crisis.”  
 The 30-stock Micex Index extended losses after the
decision. The gauge was down 0.8 percent at 1,406.69 as of 11:37
a.m. in Moscow. The ruble weakened and was down 0.2 percent at
30.2231 versus the dollar.  
 Annual inflation  slowed to 5.8 percent last month from 6
percent in May, according to the Federal Statistics Service. The
average rate banks charge on ruble-denominated loans to
companies reached 11.5 percent in June, compared with 11.4
percent the previous month, according to central bank data.  
 “A still sizable output gap will likely keep  core
inflation  pressures subdued, allowing the central bank to
maintain the current level of interest rates for the rest of the
year,” Anna Zadornova, a London-based economist at Goldman
Sachs, said by e-mail today.  
 Reached Bottom  
 Still, inflation has probably “reached a bottom” this
month and “adverse weather conditions increased the risk of an
upside surprise in food prices in the near term,” she said.  
 While the bank will continue to intervene on currency
markets to “smooth out the volatility” of the ruble, “we will
not set a target for the ruble’s nominal or real exchange
rate,” Bank Rossii First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said
on June 29.  
 The ruble may strengthen to 28 versus the dollar by the end
of 2012 and maintain a “trend toward appreciation” in the next
three years, according to a government report last month. The
ruble may gain 20 percent in the next three years against the
currencies of Russia’s major trading partners with the effects
of inflation stripped out, the report said.  
 Bank Lending  
 Russian bank lending expanded in June by the most this
year, Bank Rossii said in a statement on its website today.  
 Corporate loans grew 2.1 compared with 1.9 percent in May,
it said. Retail lending expanded 1.6 percent from 1.2 percent in
the previous month. Deposits increased 3.2 percent versus 1.7
percent, according to the statement.  
 The government’s “key goal” remains gradually moving
towards balancing the budget, Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said
on July 28. The deficit will narrow to 3.6 percent of GDP next
year, 3.1 percent in 2012, and 2.9 percent in 2013, according to
Kudrin. The deficit may narrow to 5 percent of gross domestic
product or less this year from 5.9 percent in 2009, the first
shortfall in a decade, Putin said.  
 The budget plan for 2011 is set to “create an environment
for further disinflation should the central bank maintain a
weighted monetary policy, moderating its intervention on the
foreign exchange market and thus, its printing of money,”
 Evgeny Gavrilenkov  and  Anton Stroutchenevski , economists at
Troika Dialog in Moscow, said in a research note today.  
 BRIC Policies  
 Of the other so-called BRIC countries, Brazil’s central
bank on April 28 became the first in Latin America to increase
borrowing costs in more than a year, raising the Selic rate to
9.5 percent from 8.75 percent. India raised its benchmark rates
this month and both China and India have increased reserve
requirements for banks to avoid stoking unsustainable lending.  
 Russia suffered a deeper recession than Brazil last year.
That compares with China’s growth of about 9 percent and India’s
7.2 percent.  
 Russia must gradually withdraw its anti-crisis measures to
prevent “bubbles” from forming in the economy, Putin said at a
meeting in the Moscow region last month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        