-- Hrvatski Telekom Says First-Half Net Income Dropped 24.7% to $184 Million
-- Gordana Filipovic
-- 2010-07-30T06:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/hrvatski-telekom-says-first-half-net-income-dropped-24-7-to-184-million.html

          
          
             T-Hrvatski Telekom d.d. said net
income in the first half of the year fell 24.7 percent to 822
million kuna as the recession and a special tax on mobile
services cut into earnings.  
 Group revenu e was down 3.9 percent at 4.04 billion kuna, a
sign that the “rate of revenue decline” is easing following
last year’s 5.8 percent economic slump and the imposition of a 6
percent levy on mobile-phone usage, the Croatian Unit of
Deutsche Telekom AG said in a Regulatory News Service filing
today in Zagreb.  
 “T-HT has reported a commendable set of results, given the
challenges we faced,” Chief Executive Officer  Ivica Mudrinic 
said in the statement. “Our efforts to mitigate the effects of
the recession helped to slow the revenue decline in the second
quarter and we remain focused on retaining and gaining customers
while at the same time reducing costs.”  
 Croatia’s telecommunications industry suffered as the worst
recession since the Balkan wars in the 1990s led to cutbacks in
consumer spending and and the economic contraction last year.
The Croatian central bank expects the economy to recover by the
end of the year as demand in Europe improves.  
 Revenue in its mobile unit declined 9.8 percent from the
same period last year, with prepaid business suffering. At the
same time, Internet growth was strong, with revenue from the
business rising by 20.4 percent to 688 million kuna, it said.  
 The government introduced the mobile phone levy along with
other tax increases to bolster budget revenue. Earlier this
year, the company said its earnings may improve in the second
part of the year as the government scraps the tax.  
 “We welcome the decision to cancel the Special Tax on
Salary, Pensions and Other Income and urge the Government to
abandon the Special Tax on Mobile Services in the interests of
renewed investment in Croatia that will improve the economic
climate for the entire country,” Mudrinic said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        