-- Samsung Electronics Profit Jumps to Record on Chips
-- Sungwoo Park
-- 2010-07-30T07:52:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/samsung-electronics-profit-jumps-83-to-record-on-recovery-in-memory-chips.html

          
          
             Samsung Electronics Co. , Asia’s
biggest maker of semiconductors, flat screens and mobile phones,
said second-quarter profit jumped 83 percent to a record, fueled
by a recovery in demand for computer-memory chips.  
 Net income  climbed to 4.28 trillion won ($3.6 billion) from
2.33 trillion won a year earlier, the Suwon, South Korea-based
company said today. Profit exceeded the 4.15 trillion won
average of 11 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
rose 17 percent.  
 Samsung joined  Intel Corp. ,  Apple Inc.  and  Hynix
Semiconductor Inc.  in posting higher earnings for the latest
quarter after prices increased. The electronics maker said it
will be a “challenge” to sustain current profitability as
competition increases in televisions and mobile phones.  
 “Concern about demand in overall tech products has
increased greatly recently,” said  Lee Jin Woo , a fund manager
with KTB Asset Management Co., which manages $9.3 billion in
assets in Seoul. “Although it needs to be seen whether actual
demand for tech products will cool off fast, such uncertainty
will affect sentiment in the short term.”  
 Samsung  fell 2.1 percent to close at 810,000 won in Seoul
trading, while the benchmark  Kospi index  lost 0.7 percent.  
 Operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses, surged 88 percent to a record 5
trillion won, in line with the preliminary estimate the company
gave on July 7.  
 ‘Difficult Market Conditions’  
 “With intensified competition throughout the digital media
and mobile industries going forward, it may become a challenge
to maintain current profitability levels,”  Robert Yi , vice
president of investor relations at Samsung, said in an e-mail.  
 Strong seasonal demand for components will drive Samsung’s
performance in the third quarter amid increased market supply,
Samsung said in the statement. Falling TV prices may erode
profit margins in the third quarter, it said.  
 Profit  at Samsung’s semiconductor division jumped to 2.94
trillion won from 340 billion won a year earlier.  Micron
Technology Inc.  and  Hynix , which compete against Samsung in
computer memory, both reported quarterly profit compared with
losses a year earlier.  
 Intel , the biggest chipmaker, this month reported record
second-quarter sales and topped analysts’ estimates with its
forecast for the current period. Corporate spending is
strengthening, it said, signaling that the economy isn’t headed
back into recession.  
 Chip Prices  
 The price of the  benchmark 1-gigabit DRAM chip  rose 31
percent in the 12 months to July 29, according to Taipei-based
Dramexchange Technology Inc., operator of Asia’s largest spot
market for semiconductors.  
 Prices will decline “slightly” in the current quarter,
while overall personal-computer demand will be stronger in the
second half than in the first six months of the year,  Kim Jeong Woo , a marketing executive at Hynix, said last week.  
 Samsung will maintain its “cost leadership and record
strong earnings” for the second half,  Jae H. Lee , an analyst
with Daiwa Capital Markets, said in a July 26 report.  
 Samsung’s capital expenditure for this year may exceed a
previous projection, with additional investment in new
businesses including organic light-emitting devices, or OLEDs,
Yi, the investor relations vice president, said today in a
teleconference.  
 Capital Spending  
 The chipmaker in May said it plans record capital spending
of 18 trillion won for this year to widen its lead in the
memory-chip and flat-screen industries. Spending reached 9.2
trillion won in the first half, representing 51 percent of the
planned total, it said today.  
 At its  liquid-crystal display  business, profit more than
tripled to 880 billion won, driven by higher TV demand.  LG
Display Co. , the world’s second-largest LCD maker after Samsung,
last week said second-quarter operating profit doubled, while it
missed its target for shipment growth in the quarter.  
 Panel prices may drop as concern a global economic recovery
will slow prompted some clients to adjust inventories, LG
Display said last week. The company may cut output in August to
prevent panel prices from falling sharply, Chief Executive
Officer  Kwon Young Soo  told reporters on July 23.  
 Profit at Samsung’s digital media division, which makes TVs,
tumbled 69 percent to 360 billion won.  
 LCD TVs  
 Global shipments of LCD TVs may rise 24 percent to more
than 180 million units in 2010, Austin, Texas-based
 DisplaySearch  said in March. Samsung, the world’s largest TV
maker, said in January it expects to sell 35 million LCD sets
this year.  
 Samsung, also the world’s second-largest maker of mobile
phones, said profit from the telecommunications division fell 36
percent to 630 billion won as the company lagged behind Apple
and BlackBerry-maker Research In Motion Ltd. in the smartphone
market. Second-quarter handset shipments climbed 22 percent to
63.8 million year on year, Samsung said. The division’s profit
margin dropped 3.6 percentage points to 7.2 percent on a yearly
basis, it said.  
 Nokia Oyj , the world’s biggest maker of mobile phones, last
week posted a steeper-than-expected 40 percent drop in net
income on competition from Apple’s iPhone, while LG Electronics
Inc. this week reported a record quarterly loss from its handset
business. Apple last week said net income leaped 78 percent in
the third quarter and forecast fourth-quarter sales that topped
analysts’ estimates.  
 Worldwide sales of smartphones will increase 36 percent to
247 million in 2010 and expand 30 percent next year, El Segundo,
California-based research company Isuppli said in April.  
 Samsung aims to more than double its share of the
smartphone market, helped by the introduction of the Galaxy S
model,  Lee Donjoo , senior vice president of the company’s Mobile
Communications Division, said on June 21.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sungwoo Park  in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Profit at Samsung’s semiconductor division jumped to 2.94 trillion won from 340 billion won a year earlier. Photographer: Jean Chung/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Jon Erlichman reports on the latest breaking news and top stories in today's Business Briefs. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
