-- Sarkozy Suggests Some Violent Criminals Be Stripped of French Nationality
-- Gregory Viscusi
-- 2010-07-30T13:28:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/sarkozy-suggests-some-violent-criminals-be-stripped-of-french-nationality.html

          
          
             President  Nicolas Sarkozy ,
responding to a recent spate of riots and violent crimes in
France, called for stiffer penalties for first-time offenders
and suggested that violent criminals with foreign origins be
stripped of their citizenship.  
 Speaking to local leaders in the Alpine city of Grenoble
today, he said crime was driven by permissiveness and
uncontrolled immigration. “No housing project, no street, no
stairwell should escape from the order of the republic,”
Sarkozy said as he inaugurated a new prefect to replace one he
fired last week after a riot by local youths.  
 Sarkozy, faced with near-record low approval ratings, a
stuttering economy and allegations of campaign finance
irregularities, has this week been stressing security, his
signature issue from his May 2007 election. Even if official
figures show no increase in the overall crime rate, polls show
the French public thinks the country is getting less safe.  
 “Security was one of the main issues Sarkozy was elected
on and it’s what he’s built his credibility on,” said  Jerome Fouquet , head of studies at Paris-based polling company  Ifop .
“Sarkozy first launched his crime crackdown as interior
minister in 2002, so it’s a seven-year record that he’s being
judged on, not just his three years as president. It’s not a
good thing for him if people don’t think things have gotten
better.”  
 New Penalties  
 Sarkozy said in his Grenoble speech that he wants mandatory
sentencing, which he introduced for repeat offenders in 2007,
extended to first-time violent offenders, and that he’s asked
Justice Minister  Michele Alliot-Marie  to study new penalties for
crimes committed by minors.  
 “The principal cause of violence is leniency,” Sarkozy
said. “Negligent parents could find themselves pursued on
criminal charges.”  
 The president also said that “French nationality should be
stripped from any person of foreign origin who voluntarily tries
to take the life of a policeman, gendarme, or other figure of
public authority.” He said undocumented aliens should be
expelled.  
 Over the weekend of July 17-18, youths rioted in a Grenoble
suburb after police killed a 27-year-old man of North African
origin suspected of robbing a nearby casino. About 50 cars were
burned, a tramway was smashed up and live shots were fired at
police.  
 Sarkozy fired the prefect of the Grenoble area, Albert
Dupuy, July 21 and replaced him with Eric Le Douaron, a former
director of the municipal police force.  
 ‘Always Suspicious’  
 Grenoble’s mayor,  Michel Destot  from the opposition
Socialist Party, said there was no need to dismiss Dupuy and
criticized Sarkozy’s speech for being too focused on repression.
“I’m always suspicious of these big security pronouncements
made to have an impact on public opinion,” Destot said to
reporters after the speech.  
 The same weekend as the Grenoble riots, migrant workers in
central France burned cars and a police station after a 22-year
old member of their community was shot dead by police when he
didn’t stop his car during a night-time identity check.  
 Sarkozy responded by announcing July 28 that as many as 300
camps used by French travelers will be shut and that some
members of the Roma community of Gypsies from eastern Europe
will be deported.  
 In 2005, there was rioting across France after two
teenagers were electrocuted when they hid in a power station to
escape a police identity check.  
 Popular Perceptions  
 A poll for France Soir newspaper two days ago said 59
percent of the French think security has gotten worse in recent
months, compared with 43 percent who thought so in February
2007, just before Sarkozy’s May 2007 election. The Ifop poll
questioned 957 people on July 22-23. No margin of error was
given.  
 The number of crimes fell 1 percent last year, while
violent crimes rose 2.8 percent, the Interior Ministry said Jan.
14.  
 “Even if the official numbers don’t show an overall
increase, there have been enough spectacular cases to give
people the impression that things have gotten worse,” said
Ifop’s Fouquet.  
 A policeman was killed by ETA Basque separatists in March,
a policewoman was killed by gang of robbers during a car chase
in May, and in June a motorist was beaten to death in front of
his family when an altercation after a car accident degenerated.  
 Meanwhile, Sarkozy is pushing through legislation to push
the retirement age to 62 from 60, unemployment is at 9.9
percent, and several members of the government have been
enmeshed in alleged misuse of state funds and alleged cases of
irregular campaign finance.  
 In an Ifop poll released July 18, Sarkozy’s approval rating
was 34 percent, the same as the previous month. His popularity
reached a record low of 30 percent in March. Ifop polled 946
people in July. It didn’t give a margin of error.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Grenoble, France, at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Nicolas Sarkozy, France's president, speaks during a news conference at the German federal chancellory, in Berlin. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
