-- Saudi, Syrian, Lebanese Leaders Meet to Defuse Crisis Over Hariri Killing
-- Massoud A. Derhally
-- 2010-07-30T15:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/saudi-syrian-lebanese-leaders-meet-to-defuse-crisis-about-hariri-killing.html

          
          
             Syrian President  Bashar al-Assad  and
Saudi Arabia’s  King Abdullah  met today with Lebanon’s President
 Michel Suleiman  in Beirut amid tension over possible indictments
in the 2005 killing of former Lebanese Premier  Rafiq Hariri .  
 Assad and Abdullah, meeting in Damascus yesterday, stressed
their support for Lebanon’s national unity government and the
country’s stability, as well as calling for Palestinian
reconciliation, the state-run  Syrian Arab News Agency  said.
Abdullah, who started his tour of Arab nations in Egypt this
week, heads to Amman today to meet with Jordan’s monarch.  
 This is Assad’s first visit to Lebanon since the killing of
Hariri, father of  Saad Hariri , the present Lebanese prime
minister. The death caused a souring of relations between
Lebanon and Syria. An initial United Nations investigation
implicated senior Lebanese and Syrian intelligence officials.
Syria has denied any involvement.  
 A  UN  tribunal set up to try those responsible for the death
of Hariri and 22 others in a bombing hasn’t yet announced who
will be charged. Members of the Shiite Muslim Hezbollah
movement, classified as a terrorist organization by the U.S. and
Israel, may be indicted, according to  Hassan Nasrallah , the
group’s secretary-general, who said last week that he had
received the information from Saad Hariri.  
 War With Israel  
 Nasrallah said the alleged implication of Hezbollah in the
Hariri killing is part of a plot to target the group, which has
support in Lebanon and the wider Arab world, where it is viewed
as a legitimate form of resistance to Israel. Hezbollah, which
fought a monthlong war with Israel in 2006, is part of the
Lebanese government that was formed last year.  
 Hezbollah’s policy is to support “any Arab initiative or
rapprochement that will help strengthen solidarity against
Israeli aggression and occupation of our land,” spokesman
 Ibrahim el-Moussawi  said in an interview today.  
 Syria, which played a key role in Lebanese politics for
three decades, withdrew its army from Lebanon in 2005 amid an
international outcry over Hariri’s assassination.  
 International pressure on Syria has eased since the troop
withdrawal and since Syria helped broker an end to an 18-month
political crisis in Lebanon in 2008. Better Syrian-Saudi
relations also helped Saad Hariri, Lebanon’s leading Sunni
Muslim politician, to form the government last year.  
 “Lebanon is a theater for all kinds of conflict in the
Middle East,”  Mohamad Chatah , a political adviser to the
Lebanese premier, said in an interview today. The visit of Assad
and Abdullah is seen as reassuring and as providing “some form
of protection,” Chatah said.  
 No details were released on today’s one-day summit, which
prompted a tightening of security throughout Lebanon’s capital.  
 The meeting is about “lowering the rhetoric and agreeing
that there is no reason for things to go the wrong way,” rather
than concluding a deal on the tribunal, Chatah said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Massoud A. Derhally  in Beirut at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        