-- Shanghai to Announce Property Market Curbs in Second Half, Oriental Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-30T03:58:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/shanghai-to-announce-property-market-curbs-in-second-half-oriental-says.html

          
          
             Shanghai will announce tightening
measures for the real estate market in the second half of the
year, the  Oriental Morning Post  reported, citing Zhou Bo, head
of Shanghai’s National Development and Reform Commission.  
 The east China city aims to curb property speculation, said
the Chinese-language newspaper, citing Zhou’s comments to the
local legislature yesterday. It didn’t give details of the
measures. The official said Shanghai’s government will also
stabilize supply of land and new homes, according to the report.  
 China’s  property prices  in 70 cities dropped 0.1 percent
in June from a month earlier as measures including higher down
payments and interest rates on second mortgages announced since
mid-April cooled the market. Shanghai submitted a plan to levy
property taxes on homes to the central government for review,
the China Securities Journal reported May 31.  
 “Shanghai’s measures at least won’t be more strict than
other cities’ policies that have already come out,” said  Dai Fang , a Shanghai-based analyst at Zheshang Securities Co. “The
overall economic outlook is more pessimistic than in March or
the start of the year, when the government was still trying to
avoid overheating.”  
 China’s  economy  expanded 10.3 percent in the second quarter,
slowing from the previous three months.  
 Shares Drop  
 An  index  tracking 34 real estate firms traded in Shanghai
fell 0.8 percent as of 11:25 a.m. local time today, extending
this year’s loss to 22 percent.  China Vanke Co. , the nation’s
biggest listed developer, dropped 0.7 percent.  
 Beijing restricted residents to buying only one new home
starting from May, making itself the first city to implement a
policy authorized by the State Council. Shanghai is working on
rules that will be “more strict” than the central government’s
to cool down the local market, Xinhua News Agency reported on
May 28, citing Chen Qiwei, a spokesman for the city’s government.  
 The central government this year has also curbed bank
lending for third homes, tightened pre-sale rules for developers
and cracked down on land hoarding.  
 The rapid gains in Shanghai’s housing prices have been
curbed, with new-home sales dropping 36 percent by floor area in
the first half from a year earlier, Zhou said, according to the
newspaper today.  
 Second-hand home prices in the city were 42 percent higher
last month than a year earlier, while those in Beijing had risen
75 percent, according to real estate research institute China
Index Academy.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Huiwen Yang in Shanghai at 
 hyang66@bloomberg.net ;
Dingmin Zhang in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        