-- U.K. Author Says He Won't Apologize for Book on Singapore's Death Penalty
-- Andrea Tan
-- 2010-07-30T12:18:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/singapore-court-adjourns-u-k-author-s-trial-over-book-about-death-penalty.html

          
          
             Alan Shadrake, the British author
charged for  contempt of court  for challenging the integrity and
independence of Singapore’s judiciary, said he wouldn’t
apologize for his book on the city’s  death penalty .  
 “I want to have my day in court,” he said after his trial
was adjourned today to allow his lawyer more time to prepare a
defense of fair criticism and fair comment. “I didn’t spend
three years writing the book only to run away,” Shadrake said.  
 The 75-year-old writer is also being investigated for
criminal defamation by Singapore authorities. His book “Once a
Jolly Hangman: Singapore’s Justice in the Dock,” suggests that
the government “succumbs to political and economic pressures”
in meting out the death penalty, the Attorney-General’s Chambers
said in court papers.  
 Shadrake can “tender an unreserved apology in unqualified
terms,” David Chong, chief counsel of the Attorney-General’s
civil division, said in court today. “Justification is no
defense” for contempt of court, Chong said.  
 Refusing to apologize would count as an“aggravating
factor,”the Attorney-General’s office said in a statement today.
“An apology tendered to the court, if unqualified and sincere,
may mitigate the punishment,” according to the statement.  
 The book “insinuates that the Singapore judiciary is a
tool of the People’s Action Party to muzzle political dissent”
through the award of “heavy damages in defamation actions
brought without legal basis,” the  Attorney General’s office 
said in the court papers. The book contains comments that imply
the Singapore judiciary was “guilty of impropriety” by being
“biased particularly against the weak, poor or less educated,”
according to the papers.  
 Contentious Statements  
 Shadrake’s lawyer M. Ravi asked Justice Quentin Loh today
to order Chong “not to put unnecessary fear in the media”
after the prosecutor told journalists not to cite contentious
statements from the book or risk being in contempt as well.  
 “I see quite a number of members of the media smiling,”
Loh said. “I don’t think they’re in fear.”  
 Shadrake’s book isn’t banned in Singapore, the Media
Development Authority said in an e-mailed statement today. The
regulator added that book retailers and distributors will have
to seek legal advice on whether they can sell or distribute the
book in the city-state.  
 “Singapore uses criminal defamation laws to silence
critics of government policies,” Amnesty International’s Asia
Pacific Deputy Director Donna Guest said. “If Singapore aspires
to be a global media city, it needs to respect global human
rights standards for freedom of expression.”  
 The Singapore police have said that Shadrake’s anti-death
penalty views are not the issue in its investigations.  
 Singapore’s Laws  
 “It is his violation of the laws of Singapore which are,”
the police said. “Those who disagree with our position have
presented their arguments and as a matter of principle, we
respect their right to hold such opposing views, as we hope they
do ours.”  
 The city-state, which has one of the world’s lowest crime
rates according to the  United Nations Office on Drugs and Crimes, 
imposes a death penalty for offenses including murder and drug
trafficking.  
 Singapore in 2008 expanded the scope of free speech
including allowing outdoor public demonstrations without police
permits at designated areas and eased restrictions on political
films. Prime Minister  Lee Hsien Loong  said in August 2008 the
moves were to “liberalize our society, widen the space for
expression and participation.”  
 Contempt of court  carries a jail sentence, a fine, or both.
No maximum penalty has been specified under Singapore’s
constitution, according to the  Attorney General’s office.   
 Previous Cases  
 In March 2009, Singapore’s High Court fined a senior Wall
Street Journal editor S$10,000 ($7,300) for the publication of
three articles that the city-state’s government said showed
contempt of its judiciary. Three activists were sentenced to
between seven and 15 days in prison for wearing t-shirts with
pictures of a kangaroo dressed as a judge in another contempt of
court lawsuit.  
 Dressed in a sand-colored linen suit, Shadrake waved to the
gallery as he entered the court earlier and showed the thumbs up
sign. His lawyer told the court that Shadrake suffers from a
heart condition and hypertension and has been “put to severe
stress,” because of the trial and criminal defamation
investigation.  
 Shadrake told reporters outside the court the case has
helped his book, now in its third printing, “sell like hot
cakes.”  
 The Singapore government has “blown me up into an
international celebrity,” he said. “Before, I was just an
unknown poor journalist.”  
 The case is Attorney-General vs Alan Shadrake OS720/2010 in
the Singapore High Court.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Tan  in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        