-- Sinopec Says BP Declined Its Offer to Buy Some Assets
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-30T08:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/sinopec-says-bp-declined-chinese-company-s-offer-to-buy-some-good-assets.html

          
          
               China Petroleum &amp; Chemical Corp .,  Asia ’s biggest refiner, said  BP Plc  declined an offer by the
Chinese company to buy some of its assets.  
 “We’ve talked to BP on some good assets, but they won’t
sell,” Zhang Jianhua, senior vice president of the company
known as Sinopec, said in an interview in Shanghai today,
without naming the ventures. “We aren’t in any talks with BP
right now.”  
   Europe ’s largest oil producer by volume plans to dispose of
as much as $30 billion in assets in the next 18 months to raise
cash to meet the costs of the Gulf of Mexico  oil spill . BP said
it has $16 billion of unused credit lines and plans to cut its
debt to as little as $10 billion over the same period.  
 “BP’s robust cash flow amidst resilient oil prices means
they don’t have to sell assets at dirt-cheap levels, especially
for higher-quality assets,” said  Gordon Kwan , head of regional
energy research at Mirae Asset Securities Ltd. “Expect Sinopec
and others to come back to BP with higher bids.”  
 The London-based company is considering selling fields in
Colombia, Venezuela and  Vietnam , a person with knowledge of the
matter said this month. BP may also dispose of its 60 percent
holding in Pan American Energy LLC,  Argentina ’s second-largest
oil producer, the person said then.  
 BP reported a record loss in the second quarter after the
oil spill triggered by an April 20 explosion on the Deepwater
Horizon rig. The shares closed at 413.45 pence in London trading
yesterday, down 37 percent since the blast.  
 ‘Strategic Resources’  
   China  has spent at least $21 billion on overseas resources
in the past year to meet domestic demand, including the
acquisition in April of a stake in a Canadian oil-sands project
by Sinopec’s parent. The world’s largest energy-consumer relied
on imports to meet more than half of its oil needs in 2009.  
 “The chances of Sinopec winning bids for BP assets are
small, as the European company is in the hands of the U.K. and
U.S. government and would never give strategic resources to
Chinese majors easily,” said He Wei, oil analyst with BOCOM
International Holdings Co.  
 Sinopec has fallen 10 percent in Hong Kong trading this
year, compared with the 4 percent decline in the benchmark  Hang
Seng Index . The stock rose 0.2 percent to close at HK$6.26.  
 Chinese Oil Demand  
 The slowing Chinese economy hasn’t affected domestic oil-
product demand so far, Zhang said. “We cannot see much impact
right now,” he said.  
 Sinopec’s daily fuel sales haven’t declined and the
company’s refineries are operating at more than 90 percent of
their designed capacities, Zhang said. The Beijing-based refiner
supplies 60 percent of the country’s oil products including
gasoline and diesel.  
 Fuel demand is poised to slow as Premier Wen Jiabao damps
growth to curb inflation. The economy may grow 10.1 percent this
year, according to the median of 27 economists’ forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg, down from last year’s 10.7 percent.  
 China may face a surplus of fuel including diesel next year
as refiners add oil-processing capacity, Fu Bin, deputy general
manager of PetroChina Co.’s sales unit, said on May 27. The
oversupply may rise to 80 million metric tons by 2015, Fu said.  
 Sinopec’s August oil-processing volume will increase
slightly from July, Zhang said, without elaborating. China’s
fuel demand usually peaks in summer from July to September.  
 --Winnie Zhu. Editors: Ryan Woo, Clyde Russell.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Winnie Zhu in  Shanghai  at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (Sinopec), Asia’s biggest refiner, said BP Plc has declined an offer by the Chinese company to buy some of its assets. Photographer: Kevin Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
