-- Slovakia Needs Additional Revenue to Close Deficit, Finance Minister Says
-- Radoslav Tomek
-- 2010-07-30T10:20:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/slovakia-needs-additional-revenue-to-close-deficit-finance-minister-says.html

          
          
             Slovak Finance Minister  Ivan Miklos 
said spending cuts won’t be enough to meet budget deficit
targets, requiring the new administration to seek almost 600
million euros ($781 million) in additional revenue next year.  
 The 2010  budget  deficit may exceed 7 percent of gross
domestic product, compared with a target of 5.5 percent, as tax
revenue falls short of projections, Miklos said in an interview
today. The administration of Prime Minister  Iveta Radicova , who
came to power three weeks ago, has limited room to cut the
shortfall this year, so it will focus on 2011, he said.  
 Additional revenue and spending cuts in the 2011 budget
should amount to 1.7 billion euros, which would reduce the
fiscal deficit by about 2.5 percentage points of GDP, according
to the administration’s plan for its four-year term, adopted two
days ago. About one-third of that amount will come from revenue
increases, Miklos said.  
 “It’s clear that we won’t be able to achieve” the target
“solely by spending cuts,” Miklos, 50, said at his office in
the Slovak capital, Bratislava. “We will need to look for a
combination of spending cuts and revenue-boosting measures.”  
 Miklos declined to elaborate on how the government will
increase revenue and cut spending, saying the measures will be
discussed first by leaders of the four coalition parties. The
aim of the government is to reduce waste in public spending and
minimize the impact on citizens, he said.  
 ‘More Savings’  
 The government’s agenda foresees no change in the 19
percent flat income tax rate for companies and individuals.
Miklos said that any eventual changes to taxes won’t raise the
overall tax burden for citizens.  
 “We want the state to make more savings,” Miklos said.
“The price to be paid by the citizens should be as small as
possible.”  
 Slovakia, which adopted the euro in January 2009, was hurt
by the global economic crisis, which reduced exports and pushed
unemployment to a five-year high. The budget deficit ballooned
to 7.3 percent of GDP in 2009 from 2.2 percent a year earlier,
and the economy  shrank  4.7 percent.  
 The country will seek to reduce the shortfall to between
2.7 percent and 2.9 percent of GDP in 2013, Miklos said. The
European Union has demanded that Slovakia cut the deficit to
less than 3 percent by that year.  
 Faster Growth  
 Accelerating economic growth will help the eastern European
country trim its fiscal deficit and reduce the debt-to-GDP
ratio, Miklos said. Growth may reach 4 percent this year
compared with the Finance Ministry’s June forecast of 3.2
percent, he said.  
 While the Slovak economy is set to have one of the fastest
growth rates in the EU this year, the export-oriented recovery
won’t create many new  jobs , implying revenue will be 1 billion
euros short of the plan in 2010, the Finance Ministry estimates.  
 A widening budget deficit this year would force the
government to borrow more than originally planned, Miklos said.
He doesn’t expect Slovakia, rated A1 by Moody’s Investors
Service and A+ by Standard and Poor’s, to have any difficulty
raising funds.  
 “It will depend on how the markets view the credibility of
our agenda,” he said. “If the budget for next year will be
credible, and I believe it will be, than financing shouldn’t be
a problem.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Douglas Lytle  in Prague at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net ;
 Radoslav Tomek  in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        