-- Korea to Hire Arrangers for $5.7 Billion Sale of Majority Stake in Woori
-- Seonjin Cha
-- 2010-07-30T05:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/south-korean-government-to-hire-three-arrangers-for-woori-finance-sale.html

          
          
             South Korea said it will hire three
arrangers to start selling its majority stake in  Woori Finance
Holdings Co. , owner of the nation’s second-biggest bank.  
 The government plans to select a preferred bidder by the
end of March to buy at least 30 percent of Seoul-based Woori
Finance, Min Sang Kee, head of the Public Fund Oversight
Committee, said at a briefing today. The government’s 57 percent
stake in the company is valued at 6.8 trillion won ($5.7 billion)
based on current prices on the Korea Exchange.  
 The sale may help South Korea fulfill plans create a bank
big enough to compete on the international stage. KB Financial
Group Inc. and Hana Financial Group Inc. have said they may
merge with rivals as President  Lee Myung Bak  presses to raise
the banking industry’s global competitiveness.  
 “Woori Finance will be at the heart of restructuring South
Korea’s financial industry,” said  Chang In Whan , chief
executive officer at KTB Asset management Co., which oversees
$6.4 billion worth of assets in Seoul.  
 The sale will be open to domestic and overseas bidders. Two
of the three arrangers will be domestic and the other a foreign
firm, the commission said, without providing any names.  
 Woori Finance  shares fell 2 percent to 15,000 won at 2:13
p.m. in Seoul, trimming the stock’s gain this year to 7.9
percent. The benchmark Kospi index declined 0.6 percent.  
 The company’s Kyongnam Bank and Kwangju Bank units, based
outside Seoul, will be sold separately, the commission said.  
 Financial Crisis  
 Woori Finance was created in 2001 as a holding company for
banks that the government rescued during the 1997-98 Asian
financial crisis, when South Korea received a $57 billion
bailout from the International Monetary Fund.  
 South Korea has announced plans to privatize Korea
Development Bank, with an initial share sale of its parent
company planned for 2011. State-run Incheon International
Airport Corp. also plans an initial public offer this year.  
 Woori Finance had total assets of 325.4 trillion won as end
of March and  operates  three banks, including Woori Bank. It also
runs a securities unit, Woori Investment & Securities Co., as
well as asset management and private equity business.  
 Chairman  Euh said on June 25 that he doesn’t plan to make
any takeovers for at least two years and that market conditions
will dictate the pace of consolidation among South Korea’s
financial companies. Combining  KB Financial  with Woori Finance
is one option to consider in the future, he said.  
 “KB is strong in retail banking while Woori’s good in the
corporate segment, hence the combination of the two would be the
best scenario to boost competitiveness after merger,” said  Kim In , an analyst at Eugene Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        