-- South Africa Plans to Implement Wage Increase Even If Unions Reject Offer
-- Franz Wild
-- 2010-07-30T15:49:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/south-africa-plans-to-implement-wage-increase-even-if-unions-reject-offer.html

          
          
             The South African government said it
will unilaterally implement a wage rise if striking public
sector workers don’t accept the offer.  
 The government added 10 rand ($1.37) to its proposed
monthly housing allowance increase yesterday, Public Service and
Administration Minister  Richard Baloyi  told reporters in
Pretoria today. Further raises are “unaffordable,” he said.  
 “You don’t have to spend what you don’t have,” Baloyi
said, adding that he didn’t think the government would have to
implement the pay increase unilaterally.  
 About 210,000 teachers, nurses and other state workers went
on strike for a second day today. Unions representing 1.3
million workers are demanding an 8.6 percent pay raise and
monthly housing allowances of 1,000 rand, backdated to April 1.
The government offered a 6.5 percent wage hike and an increased
housing allowance of 630 rand a month, with effect from July 1.  
 The 10-rand improvement was “insulting,” Leon Gilberts,
the national manager of the striking  Public Servants
Association , said in an interview from Pretoria, where the union
held street protests.  
 The impact of the strike remained unclear, Baloyi and
Gilberts said.  
 “We are sure that we have very broad support,” Gilberts
said.  
 Negotiations Continue  
 The government and unions agreed to negotiate until Aug. 6,
when members of the Congress of South African Trade Unions may
join the strike, Baloyi said. The government is “confident” of
a solution, he said.  
 “If further unions were to join, the action would cripple
the public service but would probably have a more limited impact
on key economic sectors and commodities than a recent three-week
transport strike,” New York-based Eurasia Group said in an e-
mailed statement today.  
 State transport company Transnet Ltd. in May gave workers
an 11 percent wage, while state-owned power utility Eskom
Holdings Ltd. this month agreed to a 9 percent raise to avert a
strike.  
 The government, whose wage bill has doubled to 259 billion
rand during the past five fiscal years, says it must curb
increases to focus on delivery of health and education.  
 “It’s not as if we don’t have other things to do,” Baloyi
said.  
 Inflation, which slowed for a sixth consecutive month to
4.2 percent in June, will remain within the central bank’s 3
percent to 6 percent target until the end of 2012, South African
Reserve Bank Governor  Gill Marcus  told reporters on July 22.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        