-- South Korea's Industrial Output Rises for 12th Month, Exceeding Forecasts
-- William Sim
-- 2010-07-30T02:16:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/south-korea-s-industrial-output-rises-for-12th-month-exceeding-forecasts.html

          
          
             South Korea’s industrial output rose
more than forecast in June, expanding for a 12th month, showing
resilience to risks from advanced economies and providing more
reason to keep raising rates.  
 Output  gained 16.9 percent from a year earlier, after
rising a revised 21.7 percent in May, the statistics office said
in Gwacheon today. That compared with the  median estimate  for a
16.5 percent gain in a Bloomberg News survey of eight
economists. Production increased 1.4 percent from May.  
 The economy grew a faster-than-expected 1.5 percent last
quarter as companies from Samsung Electronics Co. to  Hyundai
Motor Co.  reported record earnings, helped by a weakening won
that boosted export competitiveness. The expansion is bolstering
the case for a further increase in interest rates after the Bank
of Korea raised borrowing costs on July 9 for the first time
since the global financial crisis.  
 “The economy will sustain its growth momentum in the
second half as exports remain strong and local demand picks
up,”  Lee Sang Jae , an economist at Hyundai Securities Co. in
Seoul, said before the release. “The BOK may raise rates by
another 25 basis points in September and November unless the
global economy falls into a double-dip recession.”  
 The won was little changed at 1,183.3 per dollar as of the
11:10 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency has weakened 6.3 percent in the past three months,
Asia’s worst performance. The benchmark  Kospi  stock index fell
0.7 percent to 1,758.17.  
 Won Rally  
 Recent signs the economy is withstanding global risks have
spurred demand for the nation’s assets, with the won heading for
a gain of about 3 percent in July, the biggest monthly advance
since September 2009.  
 The currency reached a five-week high of 1,181.33 on July
27 before retreating the next day as traders said the Bank of
Korea bought dollars to counter the appreciation.  
 The government’s efforts “to keep the won weak for
exporters” can offset any slowdown in South Korea’s big export
markets, such as the U.S., as overseas shipments drive economic
growth, said  Park Sang Hyun , an economist at HI Investment &
Securities Co. in Seoul.  
 South Korea’s current-account surplus widened to a one-year
high in June on overseas demand for the nation’s cars, consumer
electronics and semiconductors. The windfall was $5.04 billion
and will be similar in July, compared with a revised $3.82
billion in May, the central bank said this week.  
 Record Earnings  
 The nation’s $929 billion export-led economy will grow 5.9
percent this year, more than the 5.2 percent predicted in April,
the central bank said on July 12.  Exports , which make up about
half the economy, surged 30.1 percent last month.  
 Samsung, Asia’s biggest maker of semiconductors, flat
screens and mobile phones, this month reported record earnings
for the second quarter, as a recovery in demand for computer-
memory chips drove up prices.  
 Hyundai Motor Co., South Korea’s  largest automaker , said
yesterday it expects to beat its annual revenue forecast after
posting record profit on brisk overseas sales that offset
sluggish domestic demand.  
 A  leading index  of economic indicators, which forecasts
business activity, rose 7.0 percent in June from a year earlier,
compared with a revised 7.9 percent gain in May, today’s report
showed.  
 Sales of consumer goods gained 2.4 percent last month from
May and climbed 3.8 percent from a year earlier. Investment in
factories increased 24.2 percent from the same period in 2009.  
 The Bank of Korea raised  the benchmark rate  to 2.25 percent
this month from a record-low 2 percent. Asian central banks from
Taiwan to Thailand and India have also increased borrowing costs
as price pressures outweigh concerns about the impact on the
global recovery from Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis, elevated
U.S. unemployment and a slowdown in China.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
 William Sim  in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        