-- Springboks Coach De Villiers Faces Misconduct Probe for All Blacks TV Rant
-- Dan Baynes
-- 2010-07-30T03:08:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/springboks-coach-de-villiers-faces-misconduct-probe-for-all-blacks-tv-rant.html

          
          
             The southern hemisphere rugby
alliance called a misconduct hearing to investigate South Africa
coach  Peter de Villiers  for suggesting that New Zealand was
being favored by match officials before the 2011 World Cup.  
 South Africa, New Zealand and Australia Rugby, or SANZAR,
said it issued a “notice of alleged misconduct” against de
Villiers following comments he made during a July 21 television
interview. A hearing will be conducted “in the next week.”  
 “We have determined that Peter de Villiers’s comments may
constitute a breach of the SANZAR code of conduct and warrant
further consideration by a judicial officer,”  Steve Tew , the
group’s chief executive officer, said in a statement.  
 Following back-to-back losses to the All Blacks in the
opening two games of this year’s Tri-Nations, de Villiers
suggested the home team was being assisted by referees and
linesmen to help swell interest for next year’s World Cup, which
will be hosted by New Zealand. The Springboks were heavily
penalized in the defeats and had players suspended.  
 “I’ve got my own observations about the last two Tests,
and maybe I can’t say it in public, but we do have a World Cup
in New Zealand next year and maybe it was the right thing for
them to win the games so they can attract more people to the
games next year,” he told Fox Sports “Rugby Club” program.  
 De Villiers questioned how South African players could be
sin-binned for infringements at the breakdown in both games, yet
All Blacks captain  Richie McCaw  could be repeatedly penalized
and cautioned for similar offenses and stay on the field.  
 SA Rugby Response  
 SANZAR said it raised the issue with SA Rugby, which runs
the national team, on July 22. Officials discussed the matter
with de Villiers, 53, this week on his return to South Africa
after the Springboks lost to Australia in Brisbane six days ago.  
 Having considered SA Rugby’s response, SANZAR said it
decided a misconduct hearing was warranted.  
 The South African Rugby Union said in a statement that it
wouldn’t comment on the misconduct allegation “until the
judicial process has run its course.”  
 De Villiers, who was appointed as the first black coach of
the Springboks in January, 2008, earlier yesterday met with
senior rugby officials to discuss how the team could improve at
home in the Tri-Nations following three straight losses on the
road, the union said.  
 “We had a very productive meeting and there are areas
where Peter will present us with his plans for the future,”
James Stoffberg, chairman of the union’s technical committee,
said in a statement. “He has our full support and we are
confident that we can quickly be put back on track.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        