-- Sukuk's Best Month in Four Signals More Gains on Inflows: Islamic Finance
-- David Yong
-- 2010-07-30T01:31:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/sukuk-s-best-month-in-four-signals-more-gains-on-inflows-islamic-finance.html

          
          
             Islamic bonds gained at half the
pace of emerging-market debt in July. Fund managers say they may
make up the lost ground as funds flow into developing nations
and Dubai World restructures debt.  
 “As sentiment toward emerging markets improves globally
and default risks wane, Islamic debt will stand to benefit,”
said  Usman Ahmed , a senior fund manager in Dubai at  Emirates NBD
Asset Management , which manages $300 million of bonds at the
unit of the United Arab Emirates’ biggest lender. “The sukuk
market is benefitting from the increased demand, and improved
earnings at some of the biggest issuers.”  
 Global bonds that comply with Shariah law gained 2.1
percent, double the return in June and the most since a 4.1
percent advance in March, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US
Dollar Sukuk Index . JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  EMBI Global
Diversified Index , which tracks debt from 46 emerging-market
countries, climbed 3.9 percent.  
 Global emerging-market bonds received more than $1 billion
in the week ended July 28, Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR
Global said in a statement. Developing-nation economies will
expand 6.8 percent as a group this year, more than double the
2.6 percent pace for advanced countries, according to estimates
from the Washington based International Monetary Fund.  
 Yields Drop  
 Sukuk sold by Dubai-based  DP World Ltd. , the fourth-largest
port operator, surged 5.7 percent, according to Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc prices. The debt usually pays a share of
profits to avoid payment of interest that is banned in Islamic
law. Debt from Malaysia’s government gained 2.4 percent, while
and Kuala Lumpur-based Petroliam Nasional Bhd., the nation’s
state oil company, bonds advanced 2.5 percent in July.  
 The yield on DP World’s 6.25 percent bond due 2017 dropped
90 basis points, or 0.90 percentage point, this month to 7.72
percent, the lowest level since March. The  company  said on July
27 it handled 16 percent more containers at its 50 terminals
worldwide in the first six months of this year.  
 The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due June
2015 fell to 2.995 percent and is down 52 basis points this
month, according to prices from the Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc. Prime Minister Najib Razak unveiled a plan last month to
trim the budget deficit to 2.8 percent of gross domestic product
by 2015 from an estimated 5.3 percent this year.  
 The yield on Petronas’s 4.25 percent notes due in 2014 slid
to a record low of 2.92 percent yesterday. Crude oil prices have
been 10 percent stronger in the fiscal year started April 1 than
the average for the preceding 12 months.  
 Spread Narrows  
 The spread between the average yield for emerging market
sukuk and the London interbank offered rate narrowed 35 basis
points, or 0.35 percentage points, to 408 this month, according
to  HSBC/NASDAQ index.  The spread rose four basis points
yesterday.  
 “The sukuk industry, in general, has done very well,”
 Zeid Ayer , who helps oversee $1.6 billion as chief investment
officer at Kuala Lumpur-based CIMB-Principal Islamic Asset
Management Sdn., said in an interview yesterday. “Emerging
markets are more attractive to invest in than developed markets,
as you have economic crisis in Europe with Greece and Spain in
the spotlight. So you see the inflows” into regular debt and
sukuk.  
 Sukuk issuance declined this year as investors spurned debt
of developers after real-estate prices slumped in the Middle
East. Global sales fell 29 percent to $6.7 billion so far this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Islamic bonds are
typically backed by assets and pay a share of profits instead of
interest.  
 Sukuk Sales  
 Dubai World, a state-owned investment company, on said on
July 22 it’s seeking to close negotiations “in the coming
months” to restructure $23.5 billion of liabilities. Its
property unit Nakheel PJSC, which held a separate meeting with
lenders July 14, said a group of creditors “unanimously
supported” altering the terms on $10.5 billion of loans and
unpaid bills.  
 Sukuk sales will increase in the second half, led by first-
time issuers, because of improved international market
conditions, Standard & Poor’s said in a statement on July 28.  
 The Kazakh government will sell securities in the second
half of the year, Aibek Bekzhanov, head of Islamic instruments
at the  Regional Financial Center of Almaty , said in an interview
July 27. The Philippines’ state-owned Al-Amanah Islamic Bank is
exploring a sale, the lender’s President  Armando Samia  said in a
July 26 interview. State-run Islamic Bank of Thailand plans to
raise $155 million, President Dheerasak Suwannayos said in a
July 14 interview.  
 “We foresee sustained growth for the second half, given
issuers’ interest in tapping the market, both in historical
locations like Asia, especially Malaysia, and in other regions
newer to sukuk,” said  Mohamed Damak , a credit analyst at
Standard & Poor’s in a July 28 statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net ;
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        