-- Germany's Support for Afghan War May `Crumble' on Leaks, Lawmaker Says
-- Patrick Donahue
-- 2010-07-30T09:40:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/support-for-afghan-mission-may-crumble-over-war-leaks-cdu-lawmaker-says.html

          
          
             German public support for military
action in Afghanistan may be further eroded by the “risky and
scandalous” leaking of U.S. documents, a senior lawmaker from
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party said.  
 “The fragile support we already have for this mission
could crumble,” Ernst-Reinhard Beck, the parliamentary defense
spokesman for Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union, said in a
July 27 phone interview. “We do have increasing resistance
among the public. Publication of these documents hasn’t helped -
- it will increase it.”  
 Germany has the third-largest military presence among NATO
forces in Afghanistan, with 4,400 troops in the country’s north.
Seventy percent of 1,000 respondents said they want the soldiers
to leave the country “as soon as possible,” while 27 percent
said they should stay, an Infratest poll in May showed.  
 The release by  WikiLeaks.org  of more than 91,000 classified
military files came as Merkel’s government suffers historic lows
in opinion polls after months of bickering over policy from aid
for Greece to nuclear power.  
 Support among Germans for the Afghan mission took a hit
last September when an airstrike ordered by a German commander
in Kunduz was revealed to have killed dozens of civilians.
German news magazine  Der Spiegel , which gained access to the
leaked files along with the New York Times and Guardian
newspapers, featured a report about Task Force 373, a U.S.
special operations unit accused of having killed civilians.  
 Military Conscription  
 The leaked files have refocused debate in Germany on what
Defense Minister  Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg  has said will be one
of the biggest military overhauls since World War II. It may
include reducing the number of soldiers by as much as a third,
from 250,000 to as few as 170,000, and suspending conscription
to cut as much as 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) from the
defense budget.  
 “We have a military that has ageing structures, is
dramatically underfinanced and can’t fulfill its demands in
terms of security and defense policy,” Guttenberg told the
Sueddeutsche Zeitung in a July 26 interview. “There’s no
alternative” to reform.  
 Beck, who sits on the  defense committee  in parliament, said
he opposes suspending the draft, signaling a possible clash
between Merkel’s CDU and its Free Democratic Party coalition
partner. While the FDP wants to end conscription, Beck said a
professionalized army would add to the defense budget because of
higher recruitment costs. Guttenberg is a member of the CSU, the
Bavarian sister party to Merkel’s Christian Democrats.  
 “We are a nation in the middle of Europe and have a
responsibility to preserve a certain number of soldiers so our
country can maintain credibility,” Beck said.  
 The coalition partners will likely reach an agreement on
the military overhaul by November, Beck said. Depending on “how
the situation develops” in Afghanistan this fall, Merkel’s
government will probably still be able to command a “large
majority” in parliament in December to pass an extension of the
mandate for German troops to be in Afghanistan, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        