-- Swiss Stocks Fall as U.S. Economy Grew Slower Than Expected; Holcim Drops
-- Adam Ewing
-- 2010-07-30T16:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/swiss-stocks-fall-holcim-drops-on-cement-outlook-cosmo-sika-advance.html

          
          
             Stocks in Switzerland fell for a
second day after a report showed the U.S. economy grew less than
forecast in the second quarter.  
 Nestle SA , the world’s biggest food company, fell 0.3
percent and  Holcim Ltd.  retreated 1.8 percent, leading Swiss
stocks lower, after the U.S. Commerce Department reported that
the world’s largest economy grew at an annual rate of 2.4
percent in the second quarter.  Cosmo Pharmaceuticals  gained 6.3
percent.  
 The benchmark  Swiss Market Index  slipped 0.3 percent to
6,200.78 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich, ending the week
little changed. The index has gained 1.2 percent this month. The
SMI has retreated 11 percent from this year’s high on April 15
amid speculation that Europe’s debt crisis may derail the
economic recovery and concern that the Chinese authorities are
cooling the nation’s rate of growth. The broader  Swiss
Performance Index  also fell 0.3 percent today.  
 The 2.4 percent increase to the size of the U.S. economy in
the second quarter trailed a median forecast of 2.6 percent of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The Commerce Department
upwardly revised economic growth in the first quarter to 3.7
percent, showing a jump in inventories. Business investment
climbed at the fastest rate since 1997. Corporate spending on
equipment and software jumped at a 22 percent annual rate.  
 Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke last week said the
central bank is prepared to take further policy actions if the
world’s largest economy “doesn’t continue to improve.”  
 Nestle Declines  
 Nestle, which makes up 24 percent of the SMI, declined for
the fifth day, sliding 0.3 percent to 51.50 Swiss francs.  
 “Investors are concerned about higher input costs in the
second half and whether or not companies will be able to pass
these on to consumers,”  Alex Molloy , an analyst at Credit
Suisse Group in London, said today. “There is also limited
growth in western Europe and North America for the industry.
 Kellogg Co . and  Colgate-Palmolive Co . disappointing yesterday
don’t help either.”  
 Deutsche Bank AG’s London-based strategist  Gareth Evans 
also downgraded the food and beverage industry to “neutral” on
July 27.  
 Holcim , the world’s second-biggest cement maker, fell 1.8
percent to 69.60 francs, the stock’s lowest price since July 22,
after rival  Lafarge SA  cut its cement market outlook for 2010.  
 Cosmo Pharmaceuticals , the Italian developer of treatments
for digestive-tract infections, jumped 6.3 percent to 17 francs.
It said first-half sales rose to 14.3 million euros ($18.7
million) while operating profit advanced to 2.1 million euros.  
 For Related News and Information:
On Swiss stocks: TNI SWISS STOCKS
On European earnings: TNI EUROPE ERN  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        