-- Swiss Franc Extends Gains on Speculation Economic Indicators Recovering
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-07-30T15:59:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/swiss-franc-extends-gains-on-speculation-economic-indicators-recovering.html

          
          
             The Swiss franc touched the highest
level in a week against the euro as a report showed the nation’s
leading economic indicators remained at the strongest level in
almost four years.  
 The franc rose for a third day against the single currency
after Zurich-based KOF economic research institute’s gauge that
aims to predict the economy’s direction about six months ahead
held at 2.23, the highest since August 2006. It had previously
reported a reading of 2.25 in June. The currency was also
supported by speculation that the  Swiss National Bank  was
selling some of its $208 billion in reserves, which almost
tripled during the past year as the central bank attempted to
weaken the currency.  
 “Economic numbers have improved and I guess the SNB is
less concerned now about downside risks in the economy,” said
 Daragh Maher,  deputy head of global currency strategy at  Credit
Agricole SA  in London. “For some time now, they’ve been selling
the euro that they accumulated during the intervention to weaken
the franc.”  
 The franc strengthened 0.1 percent to 1.3603 per euro at
5:57 p.m. in Zurich, after advancing to 1.3511, the strongest
level this week. The currency gained 1.2 percent against its
global peers this year, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Index.  
 “Our economist maintains his call of a 25 basis-point hike
in September and 25 basis points in December,”  Gareth Berry ,
UBS AG’s Singapore-based currency strategist, wrote in an e-
mailed note. “We remain of the view that the euro will trend
lower against the franc in the short to medium term.”  
 The franc will rise to 1.34 per euro by the end of this
year, according to a median forecast by 29 economists compiled
by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        