-- U.S. Predicts More Indictments in Municipal Bond Bid-Rigging Investigation
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-07-30T23:04:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/u-s-predicts-more-indictments-in-municipal-bond-bid-rigging-investigation.html

          
          
             More indictments are expected in a
federal antitrust investigation of the $2.8 trillion municipal
bond market, a prosecutor told a federal judge in New York.  
 Rebecca Meiklejohn , a lawyer with the Justice Department’s
antitrust division, made the disclosure at a hearing in
Manhattan in the criminal case of  CDR Financial Products Inc. 
and three of its employees, charged as part of an ongoing probe
of bid- and auction-rigging in the municipal market. Three ex-
bankers with a  General Electric Co.  unit were indicted in same
probe this week.  
 Lawyers for the CDR defendants went to court today to ask
U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  to direct the government to
give them early access to the prosecution’s evidence and
identify any material that might help to clear their clients.
Meiklejohn objected, saying the defendants weren’t entitled to
early access and the government’s investigation is still moving
ahead.  
 “This is a very expansive case,” Meikeljohn told Marrero,
addressing the broader probe. “Just this week the government
indicted more individuals in connection with this investigation.
This is a continuing investigation and we expect there to be
more indictments.”  
 Dozen Banks  
 The federal probe has already drawn in more than a dozen
banks and financial services companies, including  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. ,  Bank of America Corp.  and  UBS AG,  according to court
records and regulatory filings.  
 A grand jury in New York in October indicted  David Rubin ,
founder of Beverly Hills, California-based CDR, the firm’s
former chief financial officer and a vice president, for
allegedly taking kickbacks for running sham auctions for the
investments. All three men have pleaded not guilty to the
charges.  
 The U.S. said the defendants conspired to bid rigging on
contracts with local governments to invest the proceeds of bond
issues. The indictment alleged that CDR and its employees, who
handled the bidding, chose firms to provide the contracts in
advance in exchange for kickbacks.  
 Three other former CDR employees and one former  UBS AG 
employee have pleaded guilty in the criminal probe.  
 800,000 Tapes  
 U.S. prosecutors have amassed almost 800,000 tape
recordings and 125 million pages of documents during an
investigation of CDR that lasted more than three years, defense
lawyers complained to Marrero today. The judge, who previously
set a Sept. 12, 2012 trial date, today urged the government to
identify documents and produce them to the defense on an
expedited basis.  
 “This is not the typical case,” he said.  
 CDR faces a fine of as much as $100 million, the U.S. has
said. The charges are “without merit and in fact, a total
fiction based on a lack of understanding of the municipal
reinvestment market,” CDR said in a statement on its Web site.  
 The case is U.S. v. Rubin/Chambers, Dunhill Insurance
Services Inc., 09-CR-01058, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        