-- U.S. Patents, AstraZeneca, Rowling, Apple, Cristal: Intellectual Property
-- Carla Main
-- 2010-07-30T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/u-s-patents-astrazeneca-rowling-apple-cristal-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             The U.S. House of Representatives
passed legislation that would increase funding for the  Patent
and Trademark Office  by $129 million to help the agency reduce a
backlog of patent applications.  
 President  Barack Obama  requested funding this month, saying
the money for salaries and expenses would help spur innovation
by making the agency more effective. His administration has
linked intellectual property protection with economic expansion.  
 The patent office is struggling to reduce a  backlog  of more
than 700,000 applications as of Sept. 30, the end of the federal
fiscal year. On average, it takes 34.6 months to  complete  the
process for gaining patent protection and the office is seeking
to reduce that to 20 months by fiscal 2014.  
 U.S. manufacturing and competitiveness are “enhanced” by
obtaining patents,  Brian Pomper , director of the lobbying group
 Innovation Alliance , said in a statement. The group’s members
include  Qualcomm Inc. , the biggest maker of mobile-phone chip;
trading firm Cantor Fitzgerald LP; and  LSI Corp. , which makes
chips that control hard disks and computer networks.  
 Without legislation, any revenue collected by the agency
from fees that exceed its $1.89 billion current annual budget
would be deposited with the U.S. Treasury to be spent by
Congress on other programs.  
 Obama has  proposed  a $2.32 billion budget for the agency in
the year starting Oct. 1. The agency plans to hire 1,000 patent
examiners in each of the next two fiscal years to reach its goal
of reducing the pending-application rate. In fiscal 2009, the
agency stopped hiring and cut back programs because fee
collections fell.  
 The measure is  H.R. 5874.   
 Patents  
 AstraZeneca Lifts Forecast, Buyback Amid Brilinta Win  
 AstraZeneca Plc  raised its earnings forecast for the third
time this year and doubled a share buyback plan as the anti-clot
drug Brilinta moved one step closer to approval and a U.S. court
upheld a patent on the Crestor cholesterol medicine.  
 The U.K.’s  second-largest drugmaker  won the backing of a
Food and Drug Administration advisory panel July 28 for approval
of Brilinta, a potential rival to  Sanofi-Aventis SA  and  Bristol-
Myers Squibb Co. ’s  Plavix , which had $9.8 billion in sales last
year. The company also won a legal victory last month when a
U.S. court upheld a patent on Crestor, RE37,314, removing a
threat to the drug’s $4.5 billion in revenue.  
 The company will attempt to introduce Brilinta in nine
markets other than the U.S., including Europe, Canada and
Brazil, Chief Executive Officer  David Brennan  said on a
conference call yesterday.  
 Outside advisers to the FDA voted 7-1 July 28 in favor of
using Brilinta to reduce the risk of heart attacks, strokes and
death in patients with severe chest pain or earlier heart
attacks. The FDA is scheduled to decide on Brilinta in
September.  
 AstraZeneca is relying on small  acquisitions , expansion in
emerging markets and treatments from its own labs to replenish
revenue over the next four years as patents expire on top-
sellers  Nexium  for ulcers and the antipsychotic  Seroquel ,
medicines that generated a combined $9.83 billion last year.  
 For more, click here, and for video of Brennan’s interview,
click here.  
 Covidien Wins Reversal of Becton Dickinson Verdict  
 Covidien Plc won its bid to reverse a $58 million damage
award to  Becton, Dickinson & Co.  over a patent related to safety
needles.  
 A federal appeals court yesterday said the trial judge
erred in his interpretation of the patent and should have ruled
that Covidien didn’t infringe the patent.  
 The dispute focused on hypodermic needles that have a guard
to prevent people from getting accidentally stuck. The opinion
from the U.S. Court of Appeals from the Federal Circuit was
posted on the court’s  website .  
 The needle shields are used with one hand, and slide
forward after use to cover the tip and avoid accidental
“sticks” that might transmit AIDS or hepatitis through the
blood to medical workers.  
 The original case is Becton, Dickinson & Co. v. Tyco
Healthcare Group LP, 02-CV-1694, U.S. District Court for the
District of Delaware (Wilmington). The appeals case is Becton,
Dickinson & Co. v. Tyco Healthcare Group LP, 2009-1053,-1111,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington).  
 To see the patent, click: 5,348,544.  
 Colgate Seeks Trademark Ruling on GlaxoSmithKline  
 Colgate-Palmolive Co. asked a federal court to rule that
its new “Triple Action” toothpaste doesn’t infringe
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s  trademarks for its  Aquafresh  product.  
 Colgate said in its complaint that consumers won’t be
confused by similarities between the products. The company also
argued Glaxo hasn’t sought to assert trademarks on the product
in the past, signaling it recognizes the toothpaste’s tri-color
design and the phrase “Triple Protection” aren’t “source
identifying.”  
 Colgate’s request for a ruling came in response to
GlaxoSmithKline’s applications for new trademarks for Aquafresh.
Colgate’s complaint said the applications showed Glaxo’s intent
to gain exclusive rights to the so-called nurdle design. The New
York-based company asked the court in Manhattan to cancel those
marks.  
 Glaxo filed the new trademark applications for the nurdle
design after it raised objections with Colgate about the
branding of Colgate’s new product, according to the complaint.  
 The case is Colgate-Palmolive Co. v. GlaxoSmithKline LLC,
10-5728, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 For other patent news from yesterday, click here.  
 Copyright  
 Rowling Seeks Dismissal of Author’s Suit, Telegraph Says  
 A lawyer for  J.K. Rowling , author of the “Harry Potter”
books, asked the High Court in London to dismiss a copyright-
infringement lawsuit brought by the estate of Adrian Jacobs,
author of a book about wizards, the U.K.’s Telegraph reported.  
 The estate claims that Rowling plagiarized from Jacob’s
book. Rowling didn’t copy Jacobs’s work and the case should be
dismissed before going to trial, barrister John C. Baldwin told
the High Court on July 28, according to the newspaper.  
 Both books included wizards and a wizards’ contest, and
references to trains, the Telegraph said.  
 The estate sued Rowling and her British publisher,
 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc , in June 2009. At the time, Rowling
said she had never heard of Jacobs or his 1987 book,
“ Adventures of Willy the Wizard: Livid Land No. 1 ,”
 before the first accusations of plagiarism were made in 2004.  
 The estate brought a related lawsuit in federal court in
New York against  Scholastic Corp.  and claimed that Rowling and
Jacobs shared the same literary agent.  
 The U.K. case is Paul Gregory Allen v. Bloomsbury
Publishing Plc, HC091979, High Court of Justice, Chancery
Division. The U.S. case is Paul Gregory Allen v. Scholastic
Inc., 1:10-cv-05445, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  
 For other copyright news, click here.  
 Trademark  
 Apple Sues Companies Over Knockoff IPod, IPad Gear  
 Apple Inc.  sued companies it said are selling unauthorized
electronic accessories such as chargers, speakers and cables for
the iPod music player, iPhone and iPad tablet computer.  
 Many of the accessories are of “inferior quality and
reliability, raising significant concerns over compatibility
with and damage to Apple’s products,” Apple said in the
complaint, filed in federal court in San Francisco.  
 In the complaint, Cupertino, California-based Apple said the
unauthorized products are infringing as many as 10 patents and
violating its trademarks. Apple collects a royalty of 20 percent
to 25 percent from each sale of a licensed accessory, according
to  Shaw Wu , an analyst with Kaufman Bros. LP in San Francisco.  
 The complaint, filed July 22 in federal court in San
Francisco, identifies six sellers based in California and one in
Washington and said Apple could name as many as 20 more
companies. Calls or e-mails to five of the companies weren’t
immediately returned, and contact information for two companies
couldn’t be obtained.  
 Apple is represented in the case by  Theodore T. Herold ,
 Andrew T. Oliver  and  Robert D. Tadlock  of  Townsend & Townsend &
Crew, LLP  in Palo Alto, California.  
 The defendants haven’t yet responded to the suit.  
 The case is Apple Inc. v. eForCity Corp., 10-3216, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  
 Champagne Louis Roederer Wins Cristal Trademark Case  
 Champagne Louis Roederer , the maker of Cristal, won a
trademark infringement case against  J. Garcia Carrion SA  over
the labeling of sparkling wine.  
 Reims, France-based Roederer sued winemaker Garcia Carrion
in 2006, saying the Spanish company began importing  Cristalino 
sparkling wine into the U.S. long after Cristal was introduced
in the country.  
 Garcia Carrion and distributor CIV USA must restrict the
use of the “Cristalino” brand on the products they sell in the
U.S., U.S. District Judge  Joan Ericksen  in Minneapolis said in a
July 27 order. Garcia Carrion may use “Cristalino” only as
part of the phrase “Jaume Serra Cristalino” along with a
disclaimer stating the product isn’t affiliated with Cristal or
Roederer, Ericksen said.  
 She also restricted the use of lettering and colors on
Cristalino bottles.  
 Roederer began making Cristal champagne after being asked
to produce a wine for Tsar Alexander II of Russia in 1876 and
has been selling it in the U.S. since 1937.  
 The case is Champagne Louis Roederer v. J. Garcia Carrion
SA, 06-00213, U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota.  
 For other trademark news from last week, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carla Main  in Jersey City, New Jersey, at   cmain2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        