-- U.S. Michigan Consumer Sentiment Index Fell to 67.8
-- Courtney Schlisserman
-- 2010-07-30T14:15:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/u-s-consumer-sentiment-falls-less-than-forecast-to-67-8-in-michigan-index.html

          
          
             Confidence among U.S. consumers fell
in July to the lowest level since November, posing a threat to
the biggest part of the economy.  
 The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
 consumer sentiment  declined to 67.8 this month from 76 in June.
The preliminary measure was 66.5.  
 Employment growth has been slow to take hold and lower home
prices are depressing wealth. The lack of confidence may further
restrain  consumer spending , which accounts for 70 percent of the
economy, and limit the pace of growth.  
 “Consumers have a lot to be concerned about,”  Eric Green ,
chief market economist at TD Securities Inc. in New York, said
before the report. “Private job growth is showing signs of
slowing, not accelerating,” he said, and stock prices have
declined since peaking in April.  
 Economists forecast the index would fall from the previous
month to 67, according to the median of 58 projections in a
Bloomberg News survey. Estimates ranged from 57.5 to 73.  
 Stocks pared losses after a measure of business activity
expanded in July more than forecast. The Institute for Supply
Management-Chicago Inc. said its  business barometer  rose to 62.3
this month. Readings higher than 50 signal growth. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.4 percent to 1,097.6 at 10:10 a.m. in
New York.  
 The economy slowed in the second quarter as consumer
spending cooled, according to Commerce Department data released
earlier today. Gross domestic product increased at a 2.4 percent
annual rate last quarter.  
 Second-Quarter Spending  
 Consumer spending grew at a 1.6 percent pace in the second
quarter, compared with a 1.9 percent rate the previous three
months.  
 The University of Michigan’s gauge of  current  conditions,
which reflects Americans’ perceptions of their financial
situation and whether it is a good time to buy big-ticket items
like cars, fell to 76.5 from 85.6 in the prior month.  
 The index of consumer  expectations  for six months from now,
which more closely projects the direction of spending, dropped
to 62.3 from 69.8.  
 Consumers in the survey said they expect an inflation rate
of 2.7 percent over the next 12 months, compared with 2.8
percent in June.  
 Over the next five years, the figures tracked by Federal
Reserve policy makers, Americans expected a 2.9 percent rate of
inflation, compared with 2.8 percent the prior month.  
 Stocks have been gyrating amid concerns about the economy
and cooling global growth and optimism about companies’ second-
quarter earnings. The S&P 500  Index  has fallen 0.4 percent so
far in July through yesterday.  
 July Employment  
 Job gains will be needed to boost sentiment and spending.
In June, private employers added fewer workers than projected by
economists, while overall payrolls fell, reflecting a drop in
federal census workers. The Labor Department is scheduled to
release its July payrolls report on Aug. 6.  
 Americans have become more frugal as the labor market
struggles to gain strength and limit incomes.  
 SuperValu Inc., the operator of the Albertson’s grocery-
store chain, said this week that fiscal first-quarter food sales
fell compared with a year earlier and consumers purchased fewer
items per basket.  
 “We see huge increases in coupon usage across our
enterprise,” Chief Executive Officer  Craig Herkert  said on a
conference call July 27. “We continue to see as you all know,
massive unemployment but also underemployment and particularly
in some of the big markets where we are, it’s certainly more
challenged than in the country as a whole.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Shoppers push carts through the new Target Corp. store in the East Harlem neighborhood of New York. Photographer: Tom Starkweather/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
