-- U.S. Justice Staff Said to Urge Subpoenas for BP Managers
-- Joe Carroll
-- 2010-07-30T18:04:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/u-s-justice-staff-said-to-urge-subpoenas-for-bp-managers-in-spill-probe.html

          
          
             U.S. Justice Department attorneys
conducting a criminal probe of the  BP Plc  well explosion in the
Gulf of Mexico have recommended that a grand jury be convened
and BP managers subpoenaed to determine if any laws were broken,
a person familiar with the investigation said.  
 The subpoenas also would target employees of rig operator
 Transocean Ltd. , said the person, who was briefed by the
attorneys and asked not to be identified. London-based BP is the
majority owner of the well that exploded on April 20, killing 11
workers and triggering the worst oil spill in U.S. history.  
 Offshore drilling regulators from the Interior Department
agency formerly known as the Minerals Management Service would
be summoned to testify about the process under which BP received
permits to drill the well about 40 miles (64 kilometers) off the
Louisiana coast, and whether any improper relationships existed
between agency employees and the company, the person said.  
 Contractors that worked for BP and Transocean aboard the
rig also might be compelled to testify, according to the person.  
 Senior Justice Department officials still have to approve a
grand jury, which would be a special panel or one that sits
regularly. The recommendations were made by department attorneys
in Washington and New Orleans, the person said. The panel would
probably meet in New Orleans, the person said.  
 Hannah August, a Justice Department spokeswoman, and Kathy
English, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney  Jim Letten  of the
Eastern District of Louisiana, declined to comment.  
 BP’s Cooperation  
 “We continue to cooperate with all government
investigations,” said BP spokesman  Daren Beaudo , who said he
couldn’t confirm or comment on possible recommendations within
the Justice Department. Transocean spokesman  Guy Cantwell  said
he had no immediate comment.  
 The subpoenas could be issued before an investigative panel
composed of U.S. Coast Guard and Interior Department officials
meets for its next round of public hearings on the catastrophe
on Aug. 23 in Houston, the person said.  
 The Justice Department is investigating whether criminal or
civil laws were broken, Attorney General  Eric Holder  said at a
news conference on June 1.  
 The government has been reviewing whether there were
violations of the Clean Water Act, which carries civil and
criminal penalties, and the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, which can
be used to hold companies liable for cleanup costs.  
 Also under review is whether there were violations of the
Migratory Bird Treaty Act and Endangered Species Act, which
provide penalties for injuries to wildlife, and other criminal
laws.  
 Well-Site Leader  
 Some of the decision-makers on the drilling of the well
that failed, including BP’s well-site leader  Donald Vidrine ,
have hired criminal defense attorneys. Seven individuals and
nine corporations have been designated parties of interest by
the joint Coast Guard-Interior Department investigative panel,
which means they could be targets.  
 Vidrine, one of the senior BP managers in charge of the well
on the night of the disaster, has declined twice to answer
questions from the joint panel, citing poor health. Vidrine’s
co-equal on the rig,  Robert Kaluza , also has refused to testify,
invoking his constitutional right against self-incrimination.  
 The investigation is sure to lead to criminal charges
against BP and record fines in the billions of dollars, said
 David M. Uhlmann , a professor at the University of Michigan Law
School in Ann Arbor.  
 BP won’t fight the case and will seek a reasonable payment
schedule and a guilty plea to a crime of “negligence,” as
opposed to a “knowing” violation, said Uhlmann, a former chief
of the Justice Department’s environmental crimes section, in an
interview. That would allow BP to pursue its own civil claim
against other companies involved in the spill, he said.  
 Targeting Managers  
 The Justice Department would have a harder time bringing
criminal cases based on the Clean Water Act or other statutes
against individual BP employees. Uhlmann said he expects the
Justice Department to target managers, either on the rig or in
Houston, who made substantive decisions that contributed to the
spill. That will take investigators deep into the company’s
decision-making process in a probe that may last as long as a
year, he said.  
 “Very in-depth, very intensive,” Uhlmann said in a telephone
interview today. Prosecutors will ask whether there was “an
exercise of managerial discretion” in deciding whom to charge,
he said.  
 Another issue for investigators will be whether BP misled
the government in the weeks immediately before or after the
spill. “Nobody gets a pass on misleading the government,”
Uhlmann said.  
 Compensation Payments  
 Noah Hall, a law professor at Wayne State University in
Detroit and a former attorney with the National Wildlife
Federation, said civil fines and compensation payments of as
much as $50 billion would be more likely to convince BP to
change its way of operating than would a criminal case. He said
he’s seen nothing to suggest that Chief Executive Officer Tony
Hayward or other top executives are guilty of criminal
wrongdoing.  
 “The focus on criminal prosecution is at some level
political, giving the public a false sense of justice,” Hall
said in a telephone interview today. “If the federal government
wanted, it could use civil and criminal law to wipe out the
company. But I don’t think they want to.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in New Orleans at  jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Eric Holder  
                       
                         
                           Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Eric Holder, U.S. attorney general, speaks at a news conference at the Department of Justice in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Eric Holder, U.S. attorney general, speaks at a news conference at the Department of Justice in Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
