-- Most U.S. Stocks Rise as Confidence Overshadows GDP
-- Rita Nazareth
-- 2010-07-30T21:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/u-s-stock-index-futures-decline-before-economic-growth-report-memc-sinks.html

          
          
             Most U.S. stocks rose, extending the
biggest monthly gain in a year for the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index , as higher-than-estimated consumer confidence and business
activity tempered concern the economic rebound is slowing.  
 MetLife Inc.  climbed 4.6 percent as the biggest U.S. life
insurer topped income projections.  McAfee Inc.  had the biggest
gain in the S&P 500, rising 9.4 percent, after the maker of
security software reported second-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates.  Merck & Co.  lost 1.7 percent, the second-
most in the Dow Jones Industrial Average, after the drugmaker’s
revenue missed the average analyst estimate.  
 About five stocks  advanced  for every four that declined on
U.S. exchanges. The  S&P 500  rose less than 0.1 percent to
1,101.60 at 4 p.m. New York time, erasing a drop of as much as
1.2 percent. The  Dow  fell 1.22 points, or less than 0.1 percent,
to 10,465.94.  
 “There are some bright spots,” said  Paul Zemsky , the New
York-based head of asset allocation for ING Investment
Management, which oversees $550 billion. “The top-line GDP
number was disappointing. On the other hand, corporate earnings
are pretty good and companies feel good about it. They’re
building new plants and investing in equipment. We expect to see
gradual healing of the economy. That’s just fine for stocks.”  
 The S&P 500 climbed 6.9 percent in July after more than 77
percent of companies in the index exceeded the average analyst
profit estimate since July 12,  data compiled by Bloomberg  show.
Earnings will rise 35 percent for the entire measure this year,
the most since 1988, analyst forecasts show. Following the 2001
recession, income growth never surpassed 20 percent.  
 Economic Growth  
 U.S. stocks fell earlier today after a report showed growth
in the U.S. economy slowed to a 2.4 percent annual rate in the
second quarter, less than the 2.6 percent median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of economists, reflecting a larger trade
deficit and cooler consumer spending.  
 “The memories of a bear market linger for a very long
time,”  Dennis Gartman , an economist and the editor of the
Suffolk, Virginia-based Gartman Letter, said today in a
Bloomberg radio interview. “We still have 9 percent-plus
unemployment. I have my doubts whether consumer spending is
going to pick up here at all.”  
 Stocks trimmed losses after the Thomson Reuters/University
of Michigan final index of  consumer sentiment  showed a decline
to 67.8 in July from 76 a month earlier. The index was forecast
to drop to 67 from the previous month, according to a Bloomberg
News survey. Separately, the Institute for Supply Management-
Chicago Inc. said today its business barometer rose to 62.3 this
month, more than the median forecast of economists surveyed.  
 MetLife  
      MetLife  rose 4.6 percent to $42.06. The biggest U.S. life
insurer posted second-quarter profit of $1.56 billion compared
with a loss of $1.4 billion a year earlier as revenue improved
and the company booked an investment gain on derivatives.  
 McAfee  rose 9.4 percent to $33.10. The second biggest maker
of security software reported second-quarter profit that topped
analysts’ estimates and said it agreed to buy Tencube, a
provider of the WaveSecure mobile security service.  
 Expedia Inc.  climbed 7.6 percent to $22.68. The biggest
Internet travel agency reported second-quarter profit excluding
some items of 44 cents a share, topping the average analyst
estimate by 5.3 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  
 “Remember last year, the green shoots?” said  Bob Decker ,
who helps oversee C$4.2 billion ($4.07 billion) as a money
manager at Aurion Capital Management in Toronto. “The argument
was ‘It’s getting less bad.’ Now we’ve got an argument that’s
the opposite: It’s getting less good. These could be the best
earnings we see for the short term for the next six to nine
months.”  
 Merck  
 Merck  fell 1.7 percent to $34.46 after second-quarter
revenue and sales of its diabetes treatment Januvia missed
analysts’ estimates.  
 MEMC Electronic Materials Inc.  declined 15 percent to
$9.56. The maker of silicon wafers for solar modules and
semiconductors reported second-quarter profit excluding some
items of 2 cents a share, trailing the average analyst estimate
by 77 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Genworth Financial Inc. , the mortgage guarantor and life
insurer, slumped 14 percent to $13.58. Revenue in the second
quarter totaled $2.4 billion, compared with $2.48 billion in the
year-earlier period. Net investment losses widened to $76
million from $59 million. New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo 
subpoenaed Genworth as the state widens a life-insurance fraud
probe, said a person briefed on the demands.  
 “The recovery is slower than people thought, and that’s
likely to continue,” said  James Dunigan , chief investment
officer at PNC Wealth Management in Philadelphia, which oversees
$99 billion. “Consumers are still struggling. That will take a
while. The odds of a significant rebound in stocks in the second
half of 2010 are reduced.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A trader works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange in New York. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Gigi Stone reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     Most U.S. stocks rose, extending the biggest monthly gain in a year for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as improving data on consumer confidence and business activity tempered concern the economic rebound is slowing. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
