-- UBS Sees `Attractive Opportunity' in Emerging Markets on Current Valuation
-- Shiyin Chen
-- 2010-07-30T02:39:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/ubs-sees-attractive-opportunity-in-emerging-markets-on-current-valuation.html

          
          
             Developing-nation stocks offer
investors an “attractive opportunity” at current valuations,
led by Russia, China and Brazil, according to UBS AG.  
 Global emerging market, or GEM, stocks are trading at 10.5
times estimated earnings over the next 12 months, UBS
strategists led by  Nicholas Smithie  wrote in a report yesterday.
That’s lower than their long-term average of 13.3 times and
cheaper than the MSCI World Index’s multiple of 12.1 times,
according to the brokerage.  
 “The GEM universe looks a lot stronger than the developed
world in many respects,” Smithie wrote. “We do not think a
 discount valuation  to the World is justified and expect
multiples to converge over time, offering support for GEM
performance.”  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  has climbed 16 percent from
this year’s low set on May 25, helping to erase its 2010 loss.
That’s outpaced the MSCI World Index of developed nations, which
has fallen 3.6 percent this year amid Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis.  
 A “fair” price-to-earnings multiple for global emerging
markets would be around 15 times, which may be “ambitious”
given current  valuations , according to the report.  
 Still, its average multiple of 13.3 times suggests the MSCI
index may climb to 1,264, near its October 2007 record high of
1,338.49, the strategist said, without giving a time frame.  
 Smithie, who joined UBS in May, said the brokerage’s top
pick among developing nations is  Russia , which offers the lowest
valuations relative to the MSCI Emerging Markets Index and given
its “sustainable” growth and earnings recovery.  
 BRICs  
 He also favors shares in  China , saying that fears of a so-
called hard landing are “overblown,” and  Brazil , which offers
“superior growth, investment grade quality at a compelling
valuation.”  
 Asia ex-Japan emerging-market equity funds received more
than $1 billion last week, the strongest inflows in 14 weeks,
EPFR Global said today.  
 The outlook for domestic consumption means the largest
developing nations including Russia, Brazil and China should
continue to prosper, according to HSBC Global Asset Management
Ltd. Valuations for the BRIC markets, which also includes India,
are now back at “fair” levels, and current prices present a
“good entry opportunity for investors with a long-term
investment horizon,” the investment company said.  
 “Rising affluence is fuelling growing demand for goods,”
 Nick Timberlake , head of emerging market equities at HSBC Global
Asset, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “The BRIC
markets are no longer as dependent on the developed world.”  
 UBS’s least-preferred countries are Poland, Hungary, South
Korea and Taiwan, according to the report, which said the
Eastern European nations offer “low growth” and the risk of a
“sharp” slowing in growth momentum in 2011 to the two Asian
markets.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        