-- Ukraine's Credit Ratings Raised at S&P After IMF Approval of New Bailout
-- Tasneem Brogger
-- 2010-07-30T11:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/ukraine-s-credit-ratings-raised-at-s-p-after-imf-approval-of-new-bailout.html

          
          
             Ukraine’s credit ratings were raised
by Standard & Poor’s after the International Monetary Fund
approved a new $15.2 billion loan program for the country.  
 S&P raised its long-term foreign currency ratings on
Ukraine by one level to B+ from B, four steps from investment
grade, and the long-term local currency rating to BB- from B+,
the company said in a statement late yesterday. The ratings were
removed from CreditWatch.  
 The IMF agreed on July 28 to disburse $1.9 billion
immediately, allowing the former Soviet republic to use $1
billion of the first payment to help cover the budget deficit.
The government increased gas prices for households and heating
companies to balance the finances of state energy company NAK
Naftogaz Ukrainy and agreed to trim the deficit to 5.5 percent
of gross domestic product this year and 3.5 percent next year.  
 “We believe that the IMF program will increase the chances
of stability-oriented policy measures that should increase the
resilience of the Ukrainian economy and its public finances,”
S&P’s London-based  Kai Stukenbrock  said in the statement. “The
IMF program also reduces the external vulnerability of the
Ukrainian economy by providing external financing.”  
 Market Reaction  
 The hryvnia traded at 7.8942 per dollar at 2:04 p.m. in
Kiev from 7.8975 hryvnia yesterday. Ukraine’s 6.58 percent bond
maturing 2016 rose to 101.053, from 100.000. The country’s
Credit-default swaps, which fall as the perception of
creditworthiness improves, fell 4 basis points to 514.5,
according to data provider CMA.  
 Ukraine obtained a two-year, $16.4 billion loan from the
IMF in 2008 after the global recession cut demand for its
exports. The nation received $10.6 billion before payments were
frozen in November as the government declined to cut spending
ahead of presidential elections at the start of this year.  
 Ukraine will have to “consistently implement the program
with the IMF” to sustain its ratings, Deputy Economy Minister
 Anatoliy Maksyuta  said in Kiev today. The country’s credit grade
will “constantly” increase if the “political populism factor is
minimized,” he said.  
 VTB Loan  
 Aside from covering the budget gap, Ukraine will probably
use the IMF funds to refinance a $2 billion loan from VTB Group
the government took out last month, said  Anastasia Golovach , an
analyst at Renaissance Capital in Kiev in an e-mailed note.  
 The IMF will provide a second $1 billion payment for the
state budget after the first quarterly review, the Washington-
based lender said. The remaining $13 billion will go to central
bank reserves.  
 The loan “eases concerns over budget financing for this
year,” said  Tim Ash , head of emerging market research at Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc in London, by e-mail yesterday. The program
“should enable rational energy pricing, which will do much to
help rein in the quasi-fiscal deficit in the energy sector.”  
 Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  initially aimed for a budget-
deficit target of 5.3 percent of GDP plus 1 percent to cover
funds for Naftogaz. The IMF wants Ukraine to reduce the
shortfall to 2.5 percent in 2012.  
 “Fiscal adjustment will start in 2010 and deepen in 2011-
12, backed by robust structural reforms of the pension system,
public administration, and the tax system,” IMF Deputy Director
 John Lipsky  said in a July 28 conference call.  
 Ukraine’s natural gas industry “will be strengthened,
including through domestic price hikes and broader reforms
supported by other multilateral institutions, which will help
eliminate energy subsidies and create a more modern and viable
sector,” he said.  
 EU, World Bank  
 Resumed cooperation with the IMF opens the way for a
 European Commission  loan estimated at 610 million euros ($792
million) and for an $800 million loan from the World Bank,
Deputy Prime Minister  Serhiy Tigipko  said on July 7.  
 Naftogaz’s deficit should be “eliminated starting from
2011,” the IMF said.  
 “A long-term permanent shift to a more sustainable fiscal
position on the back of a permanent improvement in the finances
of Naftogaz and the social security system could lead to further
ratings improvements,” S&P said.  
 Setbacks to political stability, higher-than-projected
recapitalization needs for the financial system, or the
government’s weakening resolve to “finalize an IMF lending
program, could put downward pressure on the ratings,” it said.  
 Market Strength  
 The IMF’s backing “will be moderately positive” for
Ukraine’s Eurobonds “as the approval of the stand-by program has
been expected and the market has already accounted for this,”
Astrum Investment Management said in a note to clients.  
 The decision should cause a further decline in the cost of
hedging against devaluation risk, Astrum said. This “should
increase the appeal of the Ukrainian domestic bond market for
non-residents,” according to Astrum.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net 
 Kateryna Choursina  in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        