-- Unemployment Rate to 8.5% on Economic Outlook, First Decline in Six Months
-- Jeffrey Donovan
-- 2010-07-30T10:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/unemployment-rate-to-8-5-on-economic-outlook-first-decline-in-six-months.html

          
          
             Italian  joblessness  declined in June
for the first time in six months amid growing confidence in the
economic recovery after the euro’s depreciation boosted exports.  
 The unemployment rate fell to a seasonally adjusted 8.5
percent from a revised 8.6 percent in May, Rome-based national
statistics office Istat said today. That beat the median
 forecast  of 8.8 percent by 7 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey.  
 Italian business confidence  advanced  to a two-year high in
July after the economy returned to growth and exports benefited
from the euro’s decline. The euro has depreciated 9 percent this
year, making Fiat SpA cars and Luxottica Group SpA sunglasses
cheaper abroad. Italian industrial production rose in May and
consumer optimism grew for the first time in three months in
July as the economic outlook brightened.  
 Luxottica, the world’s largest eyewear maker, said this
week that second-quarter  net income  rose 30 percent. Mediaset
SpA, the broadcaster of Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, said
yesterday that first-half profit gained 34 percent on higher
advertising sales in Italy and Spain.  
 Italy’s inactivity rate, which measures the number of
unemployed who are not seeking work, held at a seasonally
adjusted 37.6 percent in June, Istat said today. The number of
people actively looking for work fell by 1.1 percent.  
 European joblessness held at 10 percent for a fourth month
in July, matching the highest rate since August 1998, data
showed today. European companies may have more scope to raise
prices and add workers in coming months as the economy shows
signs of weathering a Greece-led fiscal crisis that prompted
austerity measures by governments across the continent.  
 Italy’s Chamber of Deputies gave final approval yesterday
to 25 billion euros ($32.5 billion) in cuts to the budget gap
that are part of the European effort to tame deficits and
protect the single currency. The package aims to lower the
shortfall below the European Union’s ceiling of 3 percent of
gross domestic product by the end of 2012.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Rome at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        