-- Hungary Says S&P, Moody's `Behind the Curve' as Government Debt Rebounds
-- Zoltan Simon
-- 2010-07-30T08:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/hungary-says-s-p-moody-s-behind-the-curve-as-demand-drives-debt-rebound.html

          
          
             A surge in demand for Hungarian debt
shows rating companies were “behind the curve” in threatening
to lower the country’s credit grade, Deputy Economy Minister
 Zoltan Csefalvay  said.  
 Hungary sold 57.5 billion forint ($264.5 million) of bonds
yesterday, compared with the 50 billion forint planned. The
forint has strengthened after dropping 1.5 percent against the
euro July 23, when Standard & Poor’s said it may cut Hungary to
junk and Moody’s Investors Service said its grade may be lowered
after the  International Monetary Fund  and European Union ended
talks with the government without endorsing its budget plans.  
 “Credit rating companies are behind the curve, with more
and more signs suggesting that the market has long moved on,”
Csefalvay said yesterday in an interview in his Budapest office.
“The shock on the market has subsided. The debt auctions and
the forint underpin this.”  
 Hungary has been selling debt on capital markets since last
year, backed by a 20 billion-euro ($26 billion) emergency loan
from the IMF and EU. Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  has said he
won’t negotiate with the IMF after the program expires in
October, and Csefalvay said the country’s debt may no longer
need that support.  
 Hungary was 115 billion forint ahead of this year’s bond
sale target as of July 20, said  Laszlo Andras Borbely , the debt
management agency’s deputy chief executive officer. The
government raised more money than planned at the two auctions
held since the rating companies said they may downgrade.  
 The forint traded at 284.95 per euro at 8:04 a.m. today in
Budapest, compared with 289.64 on July 19. Credit default swaps
on Hungary’s five-year debt eased to 327 basis points yesterday
from 367 on July 19, the first trading day after talks with the
IMF and EU broke down, and a high of 410 on June 4.  
 ‘The Best Sign’  
 “The best sign of all is that Hungarian debt is well
received on the market,” Csefalvay said. “This is a very good
sign, and it strengthens our confidence. The good thing about
market financing is that there’s no politics in it.”  
 A change in market sentiment may damp demand for Hungarian
debt, leaving the country more vulnerable if it doesn’t have the
IMF safety net, said  Pasquale Diana , an economist at Morgan
Stanley in London.  
 On July 20, three days after the IMF suspended talks,
Hungary raised less than targeted at a debt auction for the
fourth time this year. It sold 35 billion forint of three-month
Treasury bills, compared with the 45 billion forint planned,
according to the debt management agency.  
 “The notion that Hungary doesn’t need the IMF and it can
fund itself from the market is a dangerous one and applies only
if inflows into emerging markets and risk appetite both remain
good,” Pasquale said in a note to clients.  
 Hungary was the first EU country to obtain a bailout from
international lenders in 2008 as it sought to avert a default
after demand for its debt dried up. Regular auctions resumed in
April of last year.  
 ‘Temporary Turbulence’  
 Orban said July 28 he expected more rating downgrades,
causing “temporary turbulence” without threatening the
country’s capacity to finance itself. Csefalvay said yesterday
he doesn’t expect any further credit rating cuts.  
 The IMF suspended its review of Hungary’s emergency bailout
because “a range of issues remain open,” the Washington-based
lender said July 17.  
 IMF officials disagreed with the scope of a tax on the
financial industry aimed at meeting this year’s budget deficit
target and were opposed to a cap on public salaries that
resulted in a pay cut for the central bank president, Csefalvay
said. They also criticized a lack of policy detail on how to
reduce the budget deficit next year, he said.  
 Orban’s government will reduce the  budget deficit  to 3.8
percent of gross domestic product this year, Csefalvay said. He
declined to give a target for 2011. The previous administration
agreed to narrow the shortfall to 2.8 percent next year.  
 ‘Make Good’  
 “Hungary’s cabinet is committed to making good on its
pledges, and this includes the strict deficit goal in accordance
with EU prescriptions,” Csefalvay said. “To achieve it, we
need to know how we’ll get there, what steps we’ll need to take,
and the government is not in a position yet to answer this. The
new budget will hold the answer to this.”  
 Hungary’s budget reduction efforts need to account for the
possibility that the EU may require members to harmonize deficit
targets later this year, Csefalvay said. Orban said July 26 it
would be “unacceptable” for Hungary to have to reduce its
shortfall to less than 3 percent before other countries in the
bloc. He expects new deadlines to be set in October.  
 The government estimates the economy will grow 2 percent to
3 percent next year, Csefalvay said.  
 “The IMF’s problem is that they’d like to see what steps
we’ll take to meet the budget deficit target,” Csefalvay said.
“It’s obvious that a further reduction requires additional
steps. The forecast economic growth for next year isn’t enough
to meet the target, so we obviously have to consider this
carefully. We’ll see in the fall.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        