-- Usiminas Sinks Most in Month as BTG Pactual Cuts to `Neutral' From `Buy'
-- Alexander Ragir
-- 2010-07-30T15:58:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/usiminas-sinks-most-in-month-as-btg-pactual-cuts-to-neutral-from-buy-.html

          
          
             Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais
SA , Brazil’s second-biggest steelmaker, sank the most in a month
after Banco BTG Pactual stripped the stock of its “buy”
rating, and the Trade Ministry said it may lower duties on some
imported steel plates.  
 Usiminas, as the Belo Horizonte-based company is known,
dropped 3.3 percent to 50.19 reais at 11:39 a.m. New York time.
Earlier it fell 4.4 percent, the biggest drop since June 29.  
 The stock was lowered to “neutral” at BTG Pactual, citing
“worsening earnings momentum” in the second half of the year.
Brazil has lowered for six months import duties on some steel
plates used to produce capital goods for the petrochemicals
industry because of supply shortages, the Trade Ministry said.  
 “While results were in line with estimates, the outlook
for the coming quarters appears challenging, with declining
volumes in the domestic market and higher costs,” wrote BTG
analysts  Edmo Chagas  and  Antonio Heluany  in a note to clients.  
 International steel prices will likely rise in the second
half of the year, while Brazil steel prices are “less
favorable” and Usiminas will be hurt most by this given its
dependence on sales within the country, the analysts wrote.  
 ‘More Attractive’ Producers  
 The analysts say investors should switch from Usiminas to
other “more attractive” metals producers, including  Vale SA ,
the world’s biggest iron ore producer, Gerdau SA, Latin
America’s biggest steelmaker, or  Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA ,
Brazil’s third-biggest steelmaker.  
 Vale gained 0.8 percent to 42.87 reais. Gerdau slipped 1.5
percent to 25.50 reais. CSN fell 1.1 percent to 29.33 reais.  
 Brazil reduced to 2 percent from 12 percent the import tax
it charges on two specific steel plates, the ministry said in a
statement on its website. Brazil also set a limit of up to 800
tons and 250 tons for the importation of each plate, the
ministry said.  
 Brazilian manufacturers don’t currently produce the plates,
though they have the spare capacity to do so, the ministry said.  
 Latin America’s biggest economy has been facing bottlenecks
after growing 9 percent on an annual basis in the first quarter,
driven by consumer demand and investment. The use of installed
capacity fell to 82.3 percent in May, from a 19-month high of
82.8 percent in April.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        