-- Tusk Says Polish Fiscal Strategy Rejects `Radical' Tax Rise, Budget Cuts
-- David McQuaid
-- 2010-07-30T15:05:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/tusk-says-polish-fiscal-strategy-rejects-radical-tax-rise-budget-cuts.html

          
          
             Poland doesn’t need “radical” tax
increases or cuts in benefits to reduce its budget deficit,
Prime Minister  Donald Tusk  said today as he pledged to meet the
criteria for joining the euro by 2015.  
 Tusk didn’t give details on spending and revenue plans,
except to say value-added tax rates may rise by 1 percentage
point. The Finance Ministry’s draft four-year plan caps the
central government  deficit  at 45 billion zloty ($14.7 billion)
next year, a reduction equal to 0.5 percentage points of gross
domestic product, PAP newswire reported yesterday. The strategy
is under discussion and will be approved Aug. 3, Tusk said.  
 “I realize many observers expected more radical steps,”
Tusk told reporters in Warsaw. “We’re here not to inflict pain
on the public but to limit it as much as possible.”  
 Tusk’s comments come after Hungary’s new government roiled
markets by seeking to back away from budget commitments after
Greece’s ballooning deficit sparked investor concern about
European sovereign debt. The European Union and International 
Monetary Fund suspended a review of Hungary’s 20 billion-euro
($20 billion) bailout program July 17, saying the government 
had to make “tough decisions” on spending.  
 Poland is choosing a “middle-of-the-road” strategy that
rejects a “drift” scenario that could trigger a debt crisis or
a “radical reform” that would hurt ordinary Poles.  
 “We don’t need the kind of action taken by Greece or
Hungary,” he said. “Poland needs time, two or three years of
security, not a revolution.”  
 Euro Targets  
 The government plans to step up asset sales, including
additional stakes in state-controlled lender PKO Bank Polska SA
and insurer PZU SA, to reduce debt sales and win “breathing
space for public finances,” Tusk said.  
 The global financial crisis has also taught Poland to be
cautious about its euro aspirations, Tusk said. While the
country plans to meet by 2015 all eligibility criteria for
adopting the euro, it isn’t setting a target date, he said.  
 The European Commission forecasts that Poland’s general
government deficit will narrow to 7 percent of GDP next year
from 7.3 percent in 2010, more than double the EU limit.  
 The deficit may top 8 percent this year and next,  Ernest Pytlarczyk , head of financial markets research at BRE Bank in
Warsaw, said in a research note today. An “expansive” 2011
budget may spark concern at credit rating companies, he said.  
 Risk Premiums  
 “We think that the Finance Ministry may be proved wrong in
betting” that Poland will look good when compared with
“exploding deficits in Spain and Portugal,” Pytlarczyk said,
As Poland’s budget figures “diverge from those in the euro
area,” Pytlarczyk said, “investors may also demand higher risk
premiums on Polish debt.”  
 The zloty rose to 4.0091 against the euro by 4 p.m. in
Warsaw from 4.01 yesterday. Yields on two-year bonds rose by 5
basis points to 4.75 percent.  
 On July 13, the government approved a preliminary 2011
budget plan that would freeze the average wages of government
workers. The plan assumes Poland’s economy will grow 3.5 percent
next year and consumer prices will rise 2.3 percent.  
 According to the draft four-year strategy cited by PAP,
existing VAT rates will be increased by one percentage point to
23 percent, 8 percent and 6 percent, while the tax on
unprocessed foods will rise to 6 percent from 3 percent.  
 Tusk told reporters today that the VAT increase would raise
5 billion zlotys to 5.5 billion zlotys a year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David  McQuaid in Warsaw at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        