-- Vale Says Global Steel Demand to `Heat Up' as Profit Increased Fourfold
-- Jessica Brice
-- 2010-07-30T16:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/vale-says-global-steel-demand-to-heat-up-as-profit-increased-fourfold.html

          
          
             Vale SA , the world’s largest iron-
ore producer, sees continued “strong” demand for the
steelmaking raw material this year as Chinese economic growth
accelerates. The stock rose to an almost two-month high.  
 “In addition to an expected Chinese recovery, it’s likely
that demand for steel in the rest of the world will heat up” in
the last three months of the year, Vale said yesterday in its
quarterly earnings report.  
 The Rio de Janeiro-based company reported a fourfold
increase in its second-quarter profit after iron-ore prices
surged from a year earlier.  Net income  gained to $3.7 billion,
or 70 cents a share, from $790 million, or 15 cents, in the
year-earlier period. The company was expected to post per-share
profit of 70 cents on an adjusted basis, the average of  13
analysts  in a Bloomberg survey.  
 Speculation that China will ease measures to curb growth
has sent Vale shares toward their biggest monthly gain in 15
months in July. Vale is producing iron ore at full capacity and
buying mines outside Brazil as Chinese-led demand helped spot
prices double in the second quarter from a year earlier.  
 ‘Sustainable Pace’  
 “China continues to grow at high rates,” Vale Chief
Financial Officer  Guilherme Cavalcanti  said on a conference call
with analysts today. Although growth has slowed in the Asian
nation, “we believe it is a more sustainable pace,” he said.  
 Vale rose 1 percent to 42.95 reais at 12:37 p.m. in Sao
Paulo trading, after earlier rising to 43.09, the highest since
June 2. The stock has rallied 13 percent this month, putting it
on track for its biggest monthly gain since April 2009.  
 Vale moved to a new system of pricing iron ore quarterly,
allowing it to benefit more quickly from price surges compared
with previous contracts that were signed on an annual basis.
Rebounding industrial expansion following the global credit
crunch boosted demand for minerals and metals and resulted “in
the strongest price surge during a recovery after the past five
global recessions,” Vale said.  
 “The positive price variation of iron ore is the main
factor” for Vale’s profit gain,  Felipe Reis , a Banco Santander
analyst who rates the stock a “buy,” said in a note to clients
before results were released. Santander sees “good prospects
for the remaining quarters of 2010, including the new round of
iron-ore price increases yet to be fully reflected in Vale’s
operating performance.”  
 Global Shipments  
 Global shipments of iron ore will advance 6 percent to a
record 961 million tons this year, according to estimates by
 Clarkson Plc , the world’s biggest shipbroker.  
 While last month’s Chinese steel output was the smallest
since February, the nation still accounted for 45 percent of
global supply. China is starting to rebuild stockpiles, while
the U.S. and Europe will likely boost inventories in the fourth
quarter,  Claudio Alves ,  Vale’s  director for iron-ore sales in
the Americas, said July 20 at an event in Rio de Janeiro.  
 Vale said yesterday that it sold iron ore at $91.93 a ton
in the second quarter, compared with $47.82 a ton in the year-
earlier period. The company sold about 69.6 million tons of ore
and pellets in the quarter, a 29 percent gain from a year ago.  
 Shipping Delays  
 Realized per-ton iron-ore prices were less than some
analysts had expected, mainly because Vale sold about 10 million
tons of ore at lower prices in the second quarter because of
delivery delays, said  Jose Carlos Martins , executive director of
ferrous minerals.  
 The iron-ore was sold at first-quarter prices because rains
and other factors prevented the company from delivering it on
time before April, Martins said today on the conference call.
Domestic customers also bought ore for a lower price because
it’s cheaper to transport, he said.  
 Additional exports were delayed into the third quarter, and
the company expects to start the fourth quarter without any
“carryover” of shipments, Martins said.  
 Second-quarter sales  almost doubled to $9.9 billion, from
$5.1 billion a year ago, Vale said. Revenue from nickel fell 10
percent to $820 million in the quarter amid strikes at units in
Canada.  
 Vale workers at two Ontario plants voted to end a yearlong
strike earlier this month, ending the longest industrial dispute
in the company’s 67-year history. Vale said on the conference
call today that it expects the Canadian operations to return to
full capacity by the end of September.  
 The earnings results, released yesterday after the close of
regular trading in Sao Paulo, were based on generally accepted
accounting principles in the U.S.  
 Building Fleet  
 The miner is building its own fleet of ships to send ore
from Brazil to China. The company is also building distribution
centers in the Middle East and Asia to challenge  BHP Billiton
Ltd . and Rio Tinto Group, whose iron-ore mines in Australia are
closer to China. Vale’s market share in the seaborne market
dropped to about 25 percent in 2009, compared with 30 percent a
year earlier, because of reduced demand in Europe and Brazil.  
 The company said yesterday in a separate statement that it
plans to buy Brazilian copper producer  Paranapanema  SA for 2.01
billion reais as it seeks to become one of the world’s top
producers of the metal.  
 Vale said April 30 that it agreed to pay $2.5 billion for a
51 percent stake in BSG Resources (Guinea) Ltd. to gain access
to iron-ore deposits in the West African nation. On May 2, the
company said it is selling aluminum assets to Norsk Hydro ASA in
a $4.9 billion deal because the business had limited growth
potential. As part of the transaction, Vale will become the
Oslo-based company’s second-largest shareholder.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jessica Brice  at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Roger Agnelli, president of Vale SA, listens during the World Business Forum at Radio City Music Hall in New York. Photographer: Craig Ruttle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
