-- Vedanta, Defying `Avatar' Protest, Seeks to Mine Orissa Bauxite This Year
-- Firat Kayakiran
-- 2010-07-30T07:48:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/vedanta-may-mine-bauxite-at-india-s-orissa-by-year-end-defying-protestors.html

          
          
             Vedanta Resources Plc , battling
criticism from environmental groups and some shareholders over
plans to extract bauxite in India’s Niyamgiri mountains, said it
may begin mining at the site as early as the end of the year.  
 “All is going well,” Vedanta Chief Executive Officer
 Mahendra Singh Mehta  said in an interview in London. “It
shouldn’t take more than three weeks for the government to
decide” on approvals after it receives an environment ministry
report scheduled for this month.  
 The mine, key to Vedanta’s plans to meet its targets to
expand refining, has been delayed for more than four years as
human rights and environmental groups raised concerns about
pollution and the effects on the local tribal community. Vedanta
on Feb. 9 said it “strongly” denied Amnesty International’s
allegations that residents in the region have been displaced.  
 Some shareholders also protested against the company’s
handling of the affair, with 12.8 percent voting against the
remuneration report at the July 28 annual general meeting. Aviva
Investors, the fund unit of the U.K.’s second-largest insurer,
said it would vote against three resolutions.  
 Environmental and human-rights protesters gathered outside
the meeting, some shouting, “Vedanta, Vedanta out” and others
painted blue, like characters from the movie  “Avatar”  about an
alien tribe’s battle to save its planet from a corporation
determined to strip its raw materials.  
 Dutch pension fund PGGM said on July 7 it sold 13 million
euros ($17 million) of Vedanta stock and the Church of England
offloaded its  shares  in February.  
 ‘No Habitation’  
 “Certain NGOs complain that the consultation isn’t
complete and human rights issues are raised,” Mehta said. “The
fact is that the project has undergone a very vigorous
consultation process. We are very positive; it’s taking longer
time, no problem. We are in the final approval stage.”  
 India formed a panel to investigate the potential effect of
mining on tribes and wildlife in Orissa, reviewing earlier
reports on use of forest land, the Ministry of Environment and
Forests said  June 30 . It would offer findings within 30 days.  
 “There is no habitation on and near the proposed mining
area,” Mehta said. “They are reviewing it once again so
nothing is left out.” The hills around the site are about 1,400
meters (4,600 feet) high and nobody lives in the area because
there aren’t any bodies of water or vegetation, he said.  
 Vedanta plans to transfer bauxite from the mine to its
alumina refinery, about 5 kilometers (3 miles) from the hills,
through a pipeline, Mehta said in an interview on July 28.
Aluminum is made from alumina refined from bauxite.  
 ‘Environment-Friendly’  
 “Laying a conveyor from the mine to the refinery will take
about 3-6 months,” Mehta said. “Normally the bauxite
transportation is done by trucks, which creates pollution; this
is a very environment-friendly way.”  
 Bauxite in the hills, totaling about 80 million metric
tons, is 1 or 2 meters from the surface and the “best in its
class in the world,” he said. “You just scrape the surface, no
blasting is needed. It could be converted to alumina at a cost
far lesser than any of the bauxites in the world.”  
 Vedanta today reported record first-quarter earnings before
income, tax, depreciation and amortization, which more than
doubled to $793.9 million from $354.7 million a year earlier.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Firat Kayakiran  in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        