-- Vodacom Holds `Promising' Talks With Democratic Republic of Congo's Kabila
-- Nicky Smith
-- 2010-07-30T14:48:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/vodacom-holds-promising-talks-with-democratic-republic-of-congo-s-kabila.html

          
          
             Vodacom Group Ltd.  said it held
talks with Democratic Republic of Congo President  Joseph Kabila 
and asked for consistency in the application and interpretation
of tax laws affecting its local mobile-phone venture.  
 “There were new taxes, and the concern was really about
how they were administering the tax; there was uncertainty,”
Vodacom Chief Executive Officer  Pieter Uys  said in an interview
in Johannesburg today. “We discussed the contribution that
telecommunications makes to a country’s economy and we asked for
his support to develop it further.”  
 Vodacom is controlled by  Vodafone Group Plc. , the world’s
biggest mobile-phone operator. Vodacom has outstanding claims in
the Congo after disputing the interpretation of tax laws, and
incurring penalties and interest on its tax bill, Uys said. In
the first quarter, Vodacom was hit with a new tax of $35
million, Uys said. The Congo government also decided to levy tax
on all mobile-phone numbers. In response, Vodacom cut low-use
numbers from its customer base.  
 Vodacom Chairman  Peter Moyo  said the government was making
“promising noises” about creating a predictable business
environment. Mayo said there is also progress in resolving a
dispute with Vodacom’s minority partner in Vodacom Congo Sprl,
as both sides have agreed to arbitration.  
 Vodacom is seeking the agreement of its minority partner,
Congo Wireless Networks, for a $484 million capital increase and
the conversion of the operation to a public company.  
 “We did not ask for help” from Kabila in the conflict
over Vodacom Congo, which is 51 percent owned by Vodacom, Uys
said. “I did brief him on what we are doing to resolve it,” he
said.  
 “I did also meet with our other shareholders in the Congo
and we are working on all fronts to find a solution,” Uys said.
“We continue to support management in the running of that
business.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        