-- Volvo China Plant Is Key to Success Under Geely, Odell Says
-- Ola Kinnander
-- 2010-07-30T11:19:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/volvo-chief-odell-says-china-plant-is-key-to-success-after-sale-to-geely.html

          
          
             Volvo Cars’ success after its sale
to  Zhejiang Geely Holding Co.  will hinge on building a
manufacturing plant in China, the Swedish carmaker’s chief
executive officer  Stephen Odell  said.  
 “When you look at the car industry in China, if you want
to be even a 2 percent player there -- and 2 percent is not a
bad aspiration -- you have to have local manufacturing,” Odell,
55, said in an interview late yesterday. “We already have local
manufacturing through a contract party, but it’s clear Volvo
needs more capacity to grow.”  
 Volvo builds its S40 and S80L models for the  Chinese market 
at a factory co-owned by parent  Ford Motor Co.  and Chongqing
Changan Automobile Co. Volvo will be able to use this plant even
after Geely’s takeover, Odell said. The CEO, who will leave
Volvo to run Ford’s European division, said he isn’t privy to
Geely’s plan for Volvo’s future manufacturing in the country.  
 Volvo sold 191,832 cars in the first half, a 20 percent
increase from a year earlier. In China, Volvo’s fourth-biggest
market, deliveries surged 88 percent to 15,497 cars in the
period, helped by last year’s introduction of the S80L, a longer
version of the S80 that’s sold only in that market, spokesman
Stefan Elfstrom said.  
 China Production Needed  
 Volvo needs its own Chinese plant “as quickly as
possible,” said  Yale Zhang , a Shanghai-based analyst with IHS
Automotive. “You cannot rely on imported autos, they will just
not be competitive.”  
 Last year, Gothenburg-based Volvo made about 8,900 S80Ls
and 6,200 S40s at the Chongqing factory.  
 Volvo may be able to sell between 100,000 and 200,000 cars
annually in China within three years with its own plant, said
Glenn Bergstrom, a Volvo board member who represents workers.
“In a year or two we must have our own production facility in
China,” he said.  
 China’s Ministry of Commerce said yesterday it had signed
off on Geely’s takeover of Volvo, paving the way for completion
of the $1.8 billion acquisition that’s the biggest Chinese
takeover of an overseas automaker.  
 “Volvo will have an owner that knows China, the biggest
car market in the world, better than anybody else does,” Odell
said by telephone. “Having manufacturing capacity will only
help Volvo in China.”  
 Volvo plans to hire 500 to 600 temporary workers at its
plants in Sweden and Belgium to meet demand and produce its new
S60 and V60 models, Odell said. It’s the first time Volvo is
adding workers since the financial crisis. Odell had cut 4,600
jobs, including 1,200 consultants, at the automaker.  
 The last time Volvo made an annual profit was in 2005, when
it posted a pretax profit of $377 million.  
 Neither Ford nor Geely has said who will succeed Odell as
Volvo CEO.  Volkswagen AG  U.S. chief  Stefan Jacoby , who stepped
down in June, may take over as CEO at Volvo, people familiar
with the matter said last month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ola Kinnander  in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Stephen Odell, chief executive officer of Volvo Cars, speaks during a news conference at Volvo headquarters in Gothenburg, Sweden on March 28, 2010. Photographer: Erik Abel/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
