-- Weyerhaeuser Says Pace of U.S. Housing Recovery Uncertain After Tax Credit
-- Christopher Donville
-- 2010-07-30T16:38:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/weyerhaeuser-says-pace-of-u-s-housing-recovery-uncertain-after-tax-credit.html

          
          
             Weyerhaeuser Co. , a home builder and
the second-largest owner of U.S. timberlands, said the timing of
a recovery in demand for new single-family housing remains
“uncertain.”  
 Sales of new homes are sagging following the expiration
this year of a federal incentive, executives of the Federal Way,
Washington-based company said today on a conference call after
reporting second-quarter earnings.  
 “Last quarter, I noted that the pace of the housing
recovery remained uncertain and this continues to be true three
months later,” Chief Executive Officer Dan Fulton said on the
call. “This has been especially evident in the market retreat
following the expiration of the federal homebuyer tax credit at
the end of April.”  
 The annual pace of U.S. new-home sales in May was the
lowest in data going back to 1963,  figures  from the Commerce
Department showed. The rate in June was the second-lowest.  
 “Our housing markets remain unsettled with low consumer
confidence and high unemployment outweighing attractive mortgage
and record affordability,” said  Larry Burrows , the head of
Weyerhaeuser’s real estate unit. “The second quarter is
traditionally the height of the selling season when we build a
backlog of homes to be closed later in the year. This momentum
did not materialize in the quarter.”  
 Weyerhaeuser  fell  21 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $16.28 at
12:21 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The
shares  declined 62 percent this year through yesterday.  
 REIT Conversion  
 Weyerhaeuser, the second-largest North American lumber
producer, is preparing to become a timber real estate trust to
reduce taxes on its investments in timberland. Earlier this
month, the company declared a $5.6 billion special dividend,
part of the process of becoming a REIT.  
 The company reported second-quarter  net income  was $14
million, or 7 cents a share, compared with a year-earlier loss
of $106 million, or 50 cents. Profit excluding some one-time
items was 20 cents a share, exceeding the 13-cent  average
estimate  of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 “I’m encouraged by our ability to profitably manage
operations in an uncertain economic climate without a sustained
housing recovery,” Fulton said on the call.  
 Weyerhaeuser is the second-largest owner of U.S. timberland
after Seattle-based  Plum Creek Timber Co.  Weyerhaeuser trailed
Vancouver-based West Fraser Timber Co. in North American
softwood-lumber output in 2009, according to a Weyerhaeuser
spokesman.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        