-- Commercial Promoting China With Yao Ming to Air on CNN, BBC in September
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-30T09:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/yao-ming-li-ka-shing-star-in-china-tv-ad-aimed-at-polishing-global-image.html

          
          
             China is preparing a television
commercial to convey a “prosperous” image of the nation to
overseas audiences featuring celebrities including National
Basketball Association player  Yao Ming .  
 The 30-second commercial will be aired on foreign networks
including  Time Warner Inc. ’s Cable News Network and the British
Broadcasting Corp. in September, Wang Lijun, a spokeswoman for
producer Shanghai Lowe & Partners, said by telephone. The
commercial will help promote a “prosperous, democratic,
civilized and harmonious” image of China, the State Council
Information Office, the government agency overseeing the project,
said in a July 28 statement on its website.  
 China has sought a greater voice internationally as the
world’s fastest-growing major economy helped lead a recovery
from the global financial crisis. The  Ministry of Commerce 
organized production of TV commercials shown on CNN and the BBC
earlier this year that featured the phrase “Made With China”
and the official Xinhua News Agency this month introduced a 24-
hour English-language TV news channel to be broadcast overseas.  
 The commercial being shot by Shanghai Lowe also features
Hong Kong Billionaire Li Ka-shing, Baidu Inc. Chief Executive
Officer  Robin Li , Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. Chairman Jack Ma
and China Mobile Ltd. Chairman  Wang Jianzhou , the Guangming
Daily newspaper reported. Shanghai Lowe has produced commercials
for Volkswagen AG’s Audi and Unilever, spokeswoman Wang said.  
 In addition, a 15-minute film on China’s achievements in
science, politics and economics is also being made, according to
the State Council Information Office. The film will be shown at
events held at Chinese embassies abroad, Wang said.  
 For Related News and Information:
Stories about Chinese media: TNI CHINA MED BN <GO>
China economic statistics :ECST CH <GO>
Most-read stories about China: MNI CHINA <GO>  
          
          


  


        