-- Yen Rises to 2010 High Against Dollar on Global Slowdown Signs
-- Yoshiaki Nohara
-- 2010-07-30T12:04:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/yen-advances-for-third-day-as-global-slowdown-signs-increase-safety-demand.html

          
          
             The yen rose to its strongest level
this year against the dollar before a U.S. report on gross
domestic product as signs the global recovery is losing momentum
boosted demand for a refuge.  
 Japan’s currency advanced against all of its major
counterparts after Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President
 James Bullard  said yesterday the U.S. is moving closer to
Japanese-style deflation. The euro pared the biggest monthly
gain versus the dollar since May 2009 as the currency failed to
break through resistance, triggering month-end selling by
investors, according to Danske Bank A/S and Societe Generale SA.  
 “We are moving into a more risk-averse environment
globally,” said  Simon Derrick , chief foreign-exchange
strategist in London at Bank of New York Mellon Corp. “There
are a lot of deflationary stories out there at the moment, and
we see people turning toward the relative safe-haven currencies
like the yen.”  
 The yen climbed 0.4 percent to 86.41 per dollar at 8:02
a.m. in New York, from 86.79 yesterday, after reaching 86.16,
the strongest level since Nov. 30. The yen has advanced 2.4
percent against the dollar this month. Japan’s currency
appreciated 0.8 percent to 112.63 per euro, from 113.51. The
dollar advanced 0.4 percent to $1.3034 per euro, from $1.3079,
paring its monthly decline to 6.1 percent.  
 The euro failed to rally past $1.3125, the 38.2 percent
Fibonacci retracement of the drop from $1.5144 on November 2009
to $1.1877 last month, according to  John Hydeskov , senior
currency analyst at Danske Bank in Copenhagen. The stall in the
euro convinced some investors that the currency’s strength was
fading, Hydeskov said.  
 ‘End-of-Month’  
 “There is the end-of-month effect,” said  David Deddouche ,
an analyst at Societe Generale in Paris. “People tend to take
profit where they can.”  
 U.S. economic growth slowed to a 2.6 percent annual rate
last quarter, from 2.7 percent in the first three months of the
year, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey before today’s Commerce Department report.  
 Japan’s  factory   output  slid 1.5 percent in June from the
previous month, when it gained 0.1 percent, the government said
today. The  jobless rate  rose to 5.3 percent, the highest level
since November, the statistics bureau said.  
 The Fed should resume purchases of Treasury securities if
the economy slows and prices fall, Bullard said in a research
paper released yesterday. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on
July 21 that central bankers “remain prepared” to act as
needed to aid growth even as they get ready to raise interest
rates eventually.  
 Deflation Risk  
 “The comments from Bullard and from Bernanke last week do
indicate an increasing risk that there is some shift in tone to
the FOMC statement coming up on Aug. 10,”  Derek Halpenny ,
European head of foreign exchange at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ in London, wrote in a note to clients today. That is “the
clear driver of dollar weakness to date, and this will frustrate
government officials in Tokyo who appear to be becoming
increasingly concerned over the appreciation of the yen,”
according to Halpenny.  
 Interest-rate futures on the CME Group Inc. exchange show a
57 percent chance the Fed will keep the target lending rate
unchanged through March, up from 44 percent odds a month ago.  
 Japan’s currency has advanced 11 percent this year in the
biggest gain among developed-world counterparts, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indices. The euro has
dropped 7.7 percent, while the dollar is up 2.2 percent.  
 Japan’s Trade Surplus  
 The yen typically strengthens in times of financial turmoil
because Japan’s trade surplus means the nation doesn’t have to
rely on overseas lenders.  
 Lawmakers from the ruling Democratic Party of Japan pressed
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  today to shift the focus of his
economic policy to growth from fiscal restraint and urge the
central bank to do more to tackle deflation.  
 The Australian and New Zealand dollars fell against the yen
before a report on Aug. 1 that economists said will show
manufacturing growth slowed for a third month in China.  
 “The Chinese PMI data is out Sunday with rumors of a
sharply weaker number,” said  Sue Trinh , a senior currency
strategist in Hong Kong at Royal Bank of Canada, the nation’s
biggest lender. “If that is realized, I would expect both
Aussie and kiwi to open on Monday a lot weaker.”  
 The Aussie decreased 0.5 percent to 77.75 yen, while New
Zealand’s dollar slid 0.6 percent to 62.44 yen.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bo Nielsen  in Copenhagen at 
 bnielsen4@bloomberg.net ;
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The yen appreciated to 86.29 per dollar  
                       
                         
                           Qilai Shen/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis president James Bullard. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis president James Bullard. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
