-- Yields Dropping to '04 Levels Spark Busiest July for Sales: Credit Markets
-- Tim Catts
-- 2010-07-30T15:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/yields-dropping-to-04-levels-spark-busiest-july-for-sales-credit-markets.html

          
          
             U.S. corporate bond sales soared 31
percent this month, the busiest July on record, as yields fell
to the lowest in more than six years on growing investor
confidence in the economic recovery.  
 Issuance of $85.7 billion exceeded the previous high for
the month of $71.1 billion set last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The cost of borrowing fell to 5.04
percent, the lowest since April 2004, and down from the 2010
high of 5.75 percent on Jan. 4, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Corporate & High Yield index. That decline
would save issuers about $7.1 million of interest per $1 billion
of bonds.  
 Companies took advantage of lower borrowing costs as more
than 77 percent of those in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  that
reported earnings exceeded analyst estimates and European bank
and regulator stress tests provided a better view into balance
sheets of the region’s lenders.  McDonald’s Corp ., the world’s
largest restaurant chain, sold 10-year debt at the lowest rates
of any borrower in the U.S. bond market in at least 15 years.  
 “It’s an extraordinary financing environment,” said
 Justin D’Ercole , head of investment-grade syndicate for the
Americas at Barclays Capital in New York. “When you juxtapose
this opportunity with how the world felt at the end of April and
early May, I think treasurers all the way up to CEOs see a
compelling opportunity to put more cash onto the balance
sheet.”  
 ‘Makings to be Massive’  
 August issuance may be similar to July’s and “has the
makings to be massive,” D’Ercole said in a telephone interview.
Since 1999, July corporate bond sales have averaged $52.7
billion, less than any other month, Bloomberg data show. August
is typically the second-slowest month with $57.1 billion of
sales on average, while March is the busiest, with $96.7
billion.  
 U.S. corporate bond sales in July compare with $65.7
billion in June. Global issuance of $223.9 billion this month
trails June’s total of $226.3 billion, Bloomberg data show.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own corporate bonds worldwide rather than government
debt fell to the lowest since May 18. The cost of protecting
company debt in the U.S. from default is poised to decline for
July, following three monthly increases. Leveraged loan prices
rose for a seventh day.  
 Global company bond spreads fell 1 basis point to 176 basis
points, or 1.76 percentage points, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate index. The gap has
dropped 20 basis points since the end of June and is unchanged
from Dec. 31. Yields fell to 3.782 percent, compared with 3.959
percent on June 30.  
 Energy Bonds  
 The bonds returned 1.045 percent this month, after gaining
1.32 percent in June, according to the index. Government debt
returned 0.31 percent, following a 0.83 percent gain in the
prior month. For the year, corporate bonds have returned 6.1
percent, versus 4.1 percent for government debt.  
 Energy bonds were the best performing in the global index
with a 1.97 percent return in July as  BP Plc  capped its leaking
well in the Gulf of Mexico, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show. Bonds from London-based BP gained 9.05 percent this
month, index data show.  
 The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or
speculate on creditworthiness, rose 1 basis point to 104.92
basis points as of 11:45 a.m. in New York, according to Markit
Group Ltd. The index is down from 122.66 on June 30.  
 European iTraxx  
 In London, the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of swaps on 125
companies with investment-grade ratings climbed 0.47 to 105.16.
That index has declined from 129.45 at the end of June.  
 Both indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  
 The  S&P/LSTA US Leveraged Loan 100 Index  climbed 0.15 cent
yesterday to 89.73 cents on the dollar, the highest since May
19. Loans have returned 2.25 percent in July and 3.82 percent
this year, according to the index, which tracks the 100 largest
 dollar -denominated first-lien leveraged loans.  
 Noble Group Ltd. , the commodities supplier backed by
China’s sovereign wealth fund, may sell $750 million of 5-year
and 10-year bonds denominated in U.S. dollars as soon as today,
a person familiar with the transaction said.  
 AMD, JPMorgan Chase  
 The Hong Kong-based company may price the $500 million of
five-year notes to yield 330 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the marketing is private. A $250 million
portion of 10-year notes may be priced at a 375 basis-point
spread, the person said.  
 Corporate bond issuance rose as companies including
Sunnyvale, California-based chipmaker  Advanced Micro Devices
Inc.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the second-biggest U.S. bank by
assets, reported earnings that exceeded analyst estimates and 84
of 91 European lenders passed stress tests last week.  
 “The market was prepared for an oil spill that was not
going to be capped, a stress test that would highlight
significant capital shortfall in Europe, and an earnings season
with no top-line revenue growth,” said D’Ercole of Barclays
Capital. “None of those scenarios materialized so the market
has had to reprice across the capital structure.”  
 Lowest Interest  
 McDonald’s joined Dallas-based  Kimberly-Clark Corp. , the
maker of Huggies and Kleenex tissues, and Duke Energy Indiana
Inc. in paying the lowest interest on 10-year debt since 1995
through issues this month, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data
show.  
 “If you have any kind of need to issue paper, it’s a good
time,” said  Dan Sheppard , a New York-based director in fixed-
income at Deutsche Bank AG’s Private Wealth Management unit,
where he helps oversee $12 billion.  
 McDonald’s $750 million offering included $450 million of
10-year notes with a 3.5 percent coupon, the lowest since 1995
for any issuer, including New Brunswick, New Jersey-based
 Johnson & Johnson , the world’s largest maker of health products,
with a top AAA  rating  from S&P. The rating firm is expected to
assign an A rating, five steps lower, to the McDonald’s notes.  
 Companies such as McDonald’s in the 30-member Dow Jones
Industrial Average Index “are names that will trade the
tightest so they’re taking advantage of absolute low rates and
tight credit spreads right now,” said  Dan Mead , a managing
director of U.S. investment-grade debt syndicate at Bank of
America Corp. The bank helped manage the sale for the Oak Brook,
Illinois-based fast-food chain.  
 Fed Fund Futures  
 Futures show a 7.8 percent chance the Federal Reserve will
raise its target rate for overnight loans between banks by at
least a quarter-percentage point by December, down from 17.2
percent a month ago. The rate is currently zero to 0.25 percent.  
 “Investors think the Fed’s going to be on hold for a good
long time and they’re not really worried about rates going up in
any true dramatic fashion as they were only a few months ago,”
Deutsche Bank’s Sheppard said.  
 Redwood City, California-based  Oracle Corp ., the world’s
second-largest software maker, led non-financial corporate bond
sales in the U.S. this month, issuing $3.25 billion of 10- and
30-year debt on July 12. Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau,
Germany’s state-owned development bank, led financial issuance,
offering $5 billion of notes.  
 Investment Grade  
 Investment-grade sales in the U.S. reached $69.05 billion
in July, a 19 percent jump from June, and the most since March,
when volume was $100.2 billion, Bloomberg data show. Junk sales
are $16.7 billion month-to-date, double that of June, and the
most since April, the data show. High-yield, high-risk, or junk,
debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s and lower than BBB- by S&P.  
 “Credit looks like it offers a lot of value,”  Charles Himmelberg , chief credit strategist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
in New York, said on a conference call with clients. “There’s a
lot of appetite for those new issues that have come to the
market recently. And I suspect there’ll be a lot of new issue
debt coming in the next few months which will meet with quite a
bit of oversubscription and quite a bit tighter spreads.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Big Mac burger. Photographer: Jason Alden/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
