-- Tyree of `Catch' Fame, Hilliard Sign One-Day Contracts, Retire as Giants
-- Mason Levinson
-- 2010-07-30T18:14:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-30/tyree-of-catch-fame-hilliard-sign-one-day-contracts-retire-as-giants.html

          
          
             David Tyree , whose acrobatic catch
helped the New York Giants win the 2008 Super Bowl, joined fellow
wide receiver  Ike Hilliard  in retiring as members of their old
team.  
 Tyree and Hilliard each signed one-day contracts with the
National Football League franchise before officially announcing
their retirements, the Giants said in a news release.  
 Tyree, 30, caught three passes in the Giants’ Super Bowl
upset of the New England Patriots. The first was a touchdown
catch and the last was a 32-yarder late in the fourth quarter,
when he held onto the ball by squeezing it against his helmet
while being tackled. The Giants went on to score the game-
winning touchdown.  
 It was Tyree’s last catch in the NFL. A knee injury kept
him sidelined for the 2008 season and he didn’t have a reception
last year for the Baltimore Ravens.  
 “I was honored from the start of things, even in the most
shakiest of moments, to have played my career with a class
organization and it was only fitting that I ended there,”
Tyree, who had 54 regular-season catches during his six-year NFL
career, said today on a conference call with reporters.  
 Hilliard, 34, ranks fifth all-time in Giants’ receptions,
catching 368 passes for 4,630 yards and 27 touchdowns. He played
his first eight NFL seasons in New York after being drafted
seventh overall and spent his final four seasons with the Tampa
Bay Buccaneers. He didn’t play last season and is now the wide
receivers coach for the Florida Tuskers of the United Football
League.  
 “Being a Giant was obviously more special to me than
anything in my professional career,” Hilliard said on a
conference call. “It was a no-brainer.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        