-- `Green Technology' Patent Program Extended for 1 Year by U.S.
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2010-11-10T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/-green-technology-patent-program-is-extended-for-one-year-by-u-s-agency.html
The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
is extending by one year its program that expedites review of
applications for inventions intended to improve the environment
and reduce greenhouse-gas emissions.  The program, which was scheduled to expire Dec. 8, has
granted 790 petitions for the faster review and issued 79
patents since the initiative began a year ago, the Alexandria,
Virginia-based agency said in a statement today. The average
time before the first action on a “green technology”
application is 49 days, the patent office said. That compares
with the typical two-year wait.  “We’ve seen great results so far for those applications in
the Green Tech program,” Director  David Kappos  said. “By doing
so, we hope to help bring more green inventions to market,
stimulate investment in green technology and create jobs.”  The extension to Dec. 31, 2011, will give the agency more
time to meet its goal of 3,000 applications. The office modified
the program in May, after issuing nine patents, to ensure more
approvals. The Obama administration is pushing for more
innovation related to renewable energy or lowering emissions,
 saying  the U.S. needs to promote investment in green
technologies to compete with nations including China and India.  Stion, Khosla  Stion Corp. , a San Jose, California-based maker of thin-
cell solar panels, had been waiting for more than three years
for patents. It now expects several to issue by the end of the
year, said the company’s patent lawyer, Richard Ogawa.  The closely held company, which is backed by Sun
Microsystems Inc. co-founder  Vinod Khosla’s  venture-capital fund
Khosla Ventures, has received a $50 million investment from
 Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.  and is trying to increase
production, Ogawa said.  “Sales people are trying to sell and we’re terrified our
competitors will clone us,” he said. “To have patents to show
we have something special is important.”  Ogawa, who handles patent applications for four additional
companies backed by Khosla, said his other clients have been
able to get quicker reviews and have said they will seek more
patents under the program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 