-- La Nina Weather Event May Be Near Peak, Last Into 2011, Forecaster Says
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-11-10T07:21:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/la-nina-event-may-be-near-peak-last-into-2011-australian-bureau-predicts.html
A La Nina weather event, which has
brought heavier-than-usual rainfall to parts of Asia and dry
weather to Argentina and Brazil, remains moderate-to-strong and
may be peaking, according to Australia’s Bureau of Meteorology.  Tropical Pacific Ocean temperatures, a La Nina indicator,
were significantly cooler than average for this time of year,
the bureau said on its  website  today. Air-pressure differences
measured by the so-called southern oscillation index, another
sign of the event, equaled record October levels, it said.  La Nina-linked rains have deluged estates and mines in
Southeast Asia, helping drive rubber to a 30-year high, curbing
tin output in Indonesia and flooding rice fields from Vietnam to
the Philippines. In South America, dry weather caused by La Nina
may hurt Argentine corn and soybeans, ETF Securities has said.  “We are either somewhere near the peak, or it may be
another month or two before we see the peak,” Andrew Watkins,
manager of climate prediction at the Melbourne-based bureau,
said by phone today. “There isn’t a strong chance it will
weaken off from we are now for the next month or so.”  The event, which has strengthened since September, has
contributed to Australia’s wettest August-to-October period on
record and may cause more cyclones this season near the
Queensland coast, according to the bureau. Queensland Sugar Ltd.,
Australia’s largest shipper, cut its shipment forecast today on
the wet weather, saying nationwide exports may slump 20 percent.  ‘Event Will Persist’  “Long-range models surveyed by the bureau suggest that
this La Nina event will persist into at least early 2011,” the
bureau said.  Rubber in Thailand may reach an all-time high this year
after floods in the south,  Supachai Phosu , deputy minister of
agriculture, said yesterday. Yen-denominated futures in Tokyo
have gained 34 percent this year to the highest level since 1980.  La Ninas occur on average every three to five years and can
last nine to 12 months, according to the U.S.  National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration . The event can also intensify
hurricane development in the Atlantic Ocean.  Rainfall in Malaysia, the second-largest palm-oil producer,
may be as much as 40 percent above normal this month and in
December as the La Nina strengthens, the nation’s forecaster has
said. Palm oil traded today at the highest level in more than
two years in Kuala Lumpur.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  