-- Macy's Third-Quarter Earnings Beat Estimates as Sales Advance
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2010-11-10T21:25:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/macy-s-third-quarter-earnings-beat-analysts-estimates-as-sales-rise-6-6-.html
Macy’s Inc. , the second-biggest U.S.
department-store chain, reported third-quarter earnings that
exceeded analysts’ estimates as sales advanced 6.6 percent.  Profit was 8 cents a share, excluding expenses for retiring
debt early, compared with a loss of 3 cents a year earlier.
Analysts estimated earnings of 4 cents, the average of 14
projections compiled by Bloomberg.  Net income  totaled $10
million, or 2 cents a share, in the three months ended Oct. 30,
compared with a net loss of $35 million, or 8 cents, the
Cincinnati-based company said today in a statement.  The chain drew customers by tailoring outlets to local
tastes and selling exclusively the Material Girl line designed
by Madonna and her daughter Lourdes. Macy’s also has benefited
from a recovery in consumer spending this year after the worst
recession since the Great Depression.  “They are taking market share and it’s from their
localization efforts,” said  Kenneth Stumphauzer , an analyst
with Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in New York who rates the stock
“neutral.” “The smaller, previously neglected stores are now
being showed more attention because the district managers have
reduced their span of control.”  Last week, Macy’s raised its earnings  forecast  for the
second half of the year to $1.50 to $1.55, excluding expenses
for retiring debt early in the third quarter. Annual profit on
that basis will come to as much as $1.99, the company said
today. Analysts estimated 2010 adjusted earnings of $1.96 a
share on average.  Sales Rise  Sales rose to $5.62 billion last quarter, Macy’s said last
week.  Macy’s  fell 36 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $24.86 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The  shares  have
advanced 48 percent this year.  Sales at stores open at least a year will  gain  3 percent to
4 percent this quarter after rising 3.9 percent in the third
quarter, Macy’s said Nov. 4.  Industrywide, U.S. same-store sales will climb 3 percent to
3.5 percent in November and December over a year earlier, the
most since 2006, the International Council of Shopping Centers
projected Oct. 1. The forecast excludes some chains like Wal-
Mart Stores Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cotten Timberlake  in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net  