-- Madoff `Feeder' Fairfield Sentry Sues Morgan Stanley Unit
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-11-10T21:39:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/madoff-feeder-fund-harley-ordered-to-pay-1-billion-to-con-man-s-victims.html
Fairfield Sentry Ltd. , a feeder fund
that transferred $3.2 billion to convicted swindler  Bernard Madoff , sued a Swiss unit of Morgan Stanley to try to recover
money.  Fairfield Sentry is seeking $10.2 million from Bank Morgan
Stanley AG. The lawsuit, filed today, is similar to a group of
so-called clawback actions Fairfield Sentry began filing in
August, when it said it had no way to repay the $3.2 billion
without recovering the money its shareholders received since
about 2004.  The lawsuits, including the latest against Bank Morgan
Stanley, are in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan. More than
120 cases have been filed related to Fairfield Sentry’s
bankruptcy case in New York.  “Bank Morgan Stanley has been unjustly enriched to the
detriment of the Funds, their creditors and the current holders
of shares in the funds,” Fairfield Sentry said in its
complaint.  A Morgan Stanley spokesman, Mark Lake, did not immediately
return a call for comment.  Fairfield Sentry is being liquidated under the supervision
of the Commercial Division of the High Court of Justice in the
British Virgin Islands. The liquidators are  Kenneth Krys  and
Joanna Lau, according to court papers.  Fairfield Sentry filed a Chapter 15 bankruptcy in New York.
That part of the bankruptcy code is used by foreign companies to
protect their U.S. assets while they are liquidated or
reorganized overseas.  Trustee’s Litigation  Irving Picard , the trustee liquidating Madoff’s former
firm, sued Fairfield Sentry to recover more than $3.5 billion in
allegedly fraudulent payments. Fairfield Sentry’s suits are
designed to recover the fictitious Madoff profits paid to its
investors.  Fairfield Sentry said it raised money for Madoff without
knowing he was running a Ponzi scheme.  The first clawback case filed is Fairfield Sentry Ltd. v.
Theodoor GGC Amsterdam, 10-03496. The latest case is Fairfield
Sentry Ltd. v. Bank Morgan Stanley AG. Both are in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  -- With assistance from  Bob Van Voris  in New York. Editors:
 Charles Carter , Michael Hytha   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 