-- Cisco, Ingersoll-Rand, Kohl’s, Viacom: U.S. Equity Preview
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   S t a n t o n
-- 2010-11-11T13:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/advance-auto-cisco-rosetta-stone-watson-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of 7:35 a.m. in New York unless
noted otherwise.  Advance Auto Parts Inc.  (AAP US): The second-largest U.S.
auto parts retailer boosted its full-year earnings forecast by
10 cents to a range of $3.80 to $3.90 a share on an adjusted
basis.  Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Inc.  (ANW US) slid 37
percent to $10. The Piraeus, Greece-based supplier of fuel for
ships reported third-quarter earnings and revenue that missed
analysts’ estimates.  Alcoa Inc.  (AA US) fell 1.3 percent to $13.70. The largest
U.S. aluminum producer was cut to “market perform” from
“outperform” at BMO Capital Markets.  Armstrong World Industries Inc.  (AWI US): The vinyl-
flooring maker offered initial price guidance on $1.05 billion
of loans it’s seeking for a shareholder payout and to refinance
debt, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Ascent Solar Technologies Inc.  (ASTI US): The developer of
solar modules used in outer space said it plans to sell shares
to raise money for the completion of a plant.  Brooks Automation Inc.  (BRKS US): The supplier of equipment
for microchip factories reported fourth-quarter earnings per
share excluding some items that beat analysts’ average estimate
by 16 percent.  Cisco Systems Inc.  (CSCO US) slid 16 percent to $20.58. The
largest maker of computer networking equipment forecast sales
for the current quarter that fell short of analysts’ estimate.  Juniper Networks Inc.  (JNPR US), a rival, fell 8.7 percent
to $31.55.  Concur Technologies Inc.  (CNQR US): The developer of
software that helps companies manage travel expenses forecast
first-quarter profit that missed the average analyst estimate.  Dendreon Corp.  (DNDN US) rose 6.4 percent to $37.07. The
drugmaker’s prostate cancer drug Provenge has “moderate”
evidence showing that it works, according to a technology
assessment prepared for the U.S. Agency for Healthcare Research
and Quality.  Ingersoll-Rand Plc  (IR US) rose 4.9 percent to $43.15. The
company that makes products such as Club Car golf cars and
Schlage locks will replace Pactiv Corp. (PTV US) in the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index, S&P said in a statement.  J.C. Penney Co.  (JCP US): The department store chain plans
to open a clothing chain for larger men and an e-commerce
website for people giving gifts, the Wall Street Journal
reported, citing unidentified people familiar with the
situation.  Kohl’s Corp.  (KSS US): The U.S. department store chain
projected fourth-quarter profit and sales that topped some
analysts’ estimates. Per-share profit will be $1.51 to $1.59,
compared with the $1.57 average of 18 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales may reach $6.05 billion, compared with an
average estimate of $5.99 billion.  Kulicke & Soffa Industries Inc.  (KLIC US): The maker of
semiconductor assembly equipment forecast first-quarter revenue
that missed analysts’ average estimate.  Optimer Pharmaceuticals Inc.  (OPTR US): The maker of drugs
to treat gastrointestinal infections told the Food and Drug
Administration that it’s voluntarily terminating a research
study of the interaction between Pruvel and antacids after
higher-than expected incidences of cutaneous rash.  Prudential Financial Inc.  (PRU US): The second-biggest U.S.
life insurer said it started a public offering of $1 billion of
its common stock.  Rosetta Stone Inc.  (RST US): The maker of language software
forecast fourth-quarter revenue that fell short of analysts’
estimate.  SurModics Inc.  (SRDX US): The maker of plastic coating used
in medical devices reported a fourth-quarter loss and revenue
that misses analysts’ estimates.  Thermadyne Holdings Corp.  (THMD US): The maker of welding
products that’s being acquired by Irving Place Capital plans to
sell $250 million of seven-year senior secured notes to fund the
leveraged buyout, according to a person familiar with the
transaction.  Viacom Inc.  (VIA/B US) rose 2 percent to $38.86. The owner
of MTV Networks and Comedy Central reported fourth-quarter
profit that topped the average analyst estimate in a Bloomberg
survey after higher viewership of its cable channels led to
increased advertising sales.  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc.  (WPI US) fell 3.6 percent to
$49.60. The generic-drug maker said its second-largest holder,
Quiver Inc., will sell 10.54 million shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Stanton in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 