-- Taiwan Restricts Foreign Investment in Bonds, Money-Market Securities
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   Y u - H u a y   S u n
-- 2010-11-10T01:12:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/taiwan-limits-foreign-investment-in-bonds-money-markets-to-curb-currency.html
Taiwan restored curbs on foreign
investment in its debt, joining China and Brazil in seeking to
curb currency gains that threaten export growth.  Foreign funds can invest only up to 30 percent of their
portfolio in government bonds and money-market products, the
Financial Supervisory Commission  said  on its website late
yesterday. At present, the ruling applies only to debt with
maturities of less than a year. The curbs, which take effect
tomorrow, were scrapped in 1995. The Taiwan dollar rose 1.7
percent to NT$30.13 against its U.S. counterpart as exporters
took advantage of suspected intervention late yesterday to remit
earnings.  “This is not unexpected,” said  Wai Ho Leong , a Singapore-
based senior regional economist at Barclays Plc. “It won’t have
a lasting impact on the Taiwan dollar because a lot of these
flows will move from bonds to equities.”  Developing economies have stepped up attempts to curb
volatility in their currencies as near-zero interest rates in
the U.S. and Japan spur demand for higher-yielding emerging-
market bonds and equities. China announced yesterday it will
force banks to hold more foreign exchange and strengthen
auditing of overseas fund-raising to crack down on hot-money
inflows.  The Taiwan dollar has advanced 2.6 percent against the
greenback over the past month, the best performance among the 10
most-traded Asian currencies. Taiwan’s central bank has
intervened in the foreign-exchange market on most days for more
than six months to check appreciation that may hurt exports,
according to currency traders who declined to be identified
because of the sensitivity of the matter.  Yields Climb  Government bonds dropped the most since Oct. 27. The yield
on the 1.125 percent note due September 2020 climbed two basis
point to 1.299 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “It’s in line with what the other central banks are
attempting to do, which is containing the volatility, rather
than designed to totally limit capital inflows,” said  Emmanuel Ng , a currency strategist in Singapore at Oversea-Chinese
Banking Corp. “We are probably not going to see much weakening
of the currency just because of this.”  Thailand last month removed a 15 percent tax exemption for
foreigners on income from domestic bonds to curb inflows of
funds. Brazil raised taxes on foreign investments in fixed-
income securities two times in a month, as part of an effort to
defend exports.  Global funds have poured more than $2.3 billion into the
island’s stocks so far this month, boosting net purchases for
the year to $7 billion. The  Taiex  Index of shares gained 0.2
percent today.  A faster and more effective way for Taiwan to control
capital inflows would be to impose a management fee instead of a
tax, Taiwan’s deputy finance minster Cheng Sheng-ford said in a
telephone interview yesterday before the measure was announced.  With assistance from Lilian Karunungan in Singapore, Weiyi
Lim in Taipei and Yumi Teso in Bangkok. --Editors: Andrew
Janes, Ven Ram  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Andrea Wong  in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  