-- Taiwan Dollar Rises Most in a Decade as Investors Pour in Funds to Stocks
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2010-11-10T02:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/taiwan-dollar-rises-most-in-a-decade-as-investors-pour-in-funds-to-stocks.html
Taiwan’s dollar rose the most in a
decade on speculation overseas investors will keep pumping funds
into local stocks as dollar printing in the U.S. makes more cash
available that can be invested in higher-yielding assets.  The government said after the market closed yesterday that
it will limit foreign ownership in the island’s debt as it
strives to curb the inflows from abroad, sending bonds lower
today. The currency ended little changed yesterday after rising
as much as 1.7 percent as traders said the central bank
intervened.  “I don’t think the new measures will stop the Taiwan
dollar from advancing,” said  Albert Lee , a fixed-income trader
at Cathay United Bank Co. in Taipei. “Now the hot money might
just go to the stock market instead.”  The Taiwan dollar advanced 1.6 percent to NT$30.144 versus
the greenback as of 10 a.m. local time, according to Taipei
Forex Inc. That’s the biggest one-day gain since January 2000.
The currency reached NT$30.04 on Nov. 5, the strongest since
March 2008.  Foreign investors bought $315 million more Taiwanese shares
than they sold in the past two days, helping send the  Taiex
Index  of shares to the highest level since June 2008.  The Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan) has
intervened in the market on most days for more than six months
to check appreciation that may hurt exports, according to
currency traders who declined to be identified. The monetary
authority said on Oct. 19 it will step into the foreign-exchange
market when the local dollar “overshoots.”  Global funds can only invest up to 30 percent of their
portfolios in government bonds and money-market products, the
Financial Supervisory Commission said on its website yesterday.  Government bonds dropped, with the yield on the 1.125
percent note due September 2020 climbing one basis point to
1.292 percent, according to prices from Gretai Securities Market,
the island’s biggest debt exchange. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Andrea Wong  in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  