-- Malaysian Production Quickened in September as Manufacturing, Mining Gain
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2010-11-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/malaysian-production-quickened-in-september-as-manufacturing-mining-gain.html
Malaysia’s  industrial production 
growth quickened in September as manufacturers and mining
companies increased output, a gain that may subside as the
global economy slows.  Production at factories, utilities and mines rose 5.6
percent from a year earlier after gaining a revised 3.8 percent
in August, the Putrajaya, Malaysia-based statistics department
said in a statement today. That compares with the median
estimate for a 4.8 percent increase in a  Bloomberg News survey 
of 16 economists.  Malaysia’s exports rose at the slowest pace in 10 months in
September, adding to evidence that weakening growth in the
world’s largest economies is hurting demand for Asian goods.
Southeast Asia’s third-largest economy may experience some
deceleration in the final three months of 2010, International
Trade & Industry Minister  Mustapa Mohamed  said last month.  “Though this is slightly higher than the previous month,
there is nothing to cheer about,”  Irvin Seah , an economist at
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in Singapore, said before the report.
“Gone are the days of double-digit expansion in production
output where rapid inventory restocking led to strong surge in
production. Production growth will revert to a more sustainable,
albeit modest pace.”  Malaysia’s manufacturing sales rose 7.6 percent in
September from a year earlier, slowing from an 8.7 percent gain
in August, the statistics department said in a separate report.  Manufacturing output increased 7.6 percent in September,
after a revised 6.6 percent gain the previous month. Mining
climbed 1.7 percent, while electricity production advanced 3.1
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  