-- Halliburton Looks to Bolster Slumping Overseas Profits in 2011
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2010-11-10T22:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/halliburton-looks-to-bolster-slumping-overseas-profits-in-2011.html
Halliburton Co. , the world’s second-
largest oilfield-services provider, will need to turn around its
sagging international business to achieve the 34 percent gain in
earnings analysts are predicting for the company next year.  Halliburton  has sought to reduce its focus on North
America, opening a Middle East headquarters in Dubai in 2007 and
adding overseas research and manufacturing centers. The
company’s operating income from its three international regions
surpassed North America in 2008 and 2009.  That changed this year as international profits slumped and
work in North America surged on a drilling boom to extract gas
from shale rock formations. Third-quarter net income more than
doubled even as operating profit from international businesses
tumbled 37 percent. Some analysts say the U.S. and Canada won’t
be able to take up the slack much longer.  “Halliburton won’t succeed if they just succeed in their
U.S. business,” said  James D. Crandell , a managing director at
Barclays Capital in New York who has an “overweight” rating on
Halliburton shares and owns none. “They also have to expand
revenues and margins and profitability in the international
business significantly, as they’ve made a lot of investments
there.”  Halliburton, based in Houston, held an analyst meeting
today where it faced questions on its overseas and domestic
outlooks. The company also faces potential liability over  BP
Plc ’s Macondo oil disaster in April, after a report by the
National Commission on the spill found that cement Halliburton
mixed for the well was unstable.  Judge’s Order  Halliburton said it followed BP’s specifications and is
protected by its contract. A federal judge on Oct. 27 ordered
the company to turn over cement used at the well to federal
investigators from the U.S. Coast Guard and the Department of
the Interior.  The company is expected to earn $2.68 a share next year,
excluding one-time items, compared with about $2 this year,
according to the average of 36  analysts’ estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. For 2012, the average estimate from 19 analysts is
earnings per share of about $3.15.  “The earnings expectations that are out there for the
industry absolutely factor in improvement in international,”
said  Roger Read , an analyst at Natixis Bleichroeder in Houston
who has a “buy” rating on Halliburton and owns about 500
shares. “You need an improving 2011 to give you confidence to
put a more aggressive number out there for 2012.”  Improvements Next Year  Chief Executive Officer  David Lesar  said last month on an
earnings conference call with analysts and investors that
international pricing will show improvement during 2011. He said
international profit margins may gain in the interim, while a
global economic recovery in the longer term may help worldwide
oil and gas demand in 2012 top the peak reached in 2007.  Lesar, speaking at today’s conference, said Halliburton
will work to maintain its North American margin leadership and
narrow the international margin gap with its top competitor.
Chief Financial Officer  Mark McCollum  said the company’s capital
spending on projects will be $2.5 billion to $3 billion in 2011,
compared with about $1.8 billion to $2 billion in recent years.
The company said last month that capital spending would be $2.1
billion in 2010.  Twenty-nine analysts have an average 12-month target price
of $45.55 on Halliburton’s  stock , according to Bloomberg data.
That’s about 37 percent higher than yesterday’s closing price of
$33.22 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Halliburton
rose $1.66, or 5 percent, to $34.88 as of 4 p.m.  Iraq, India, Libya  Brian Youngberg , an analyst at Edward Jones in St. Louis,
said the stock rose after Halliburton’s comments indicated North
America should stay strong as the company works to close an
international gap with  Schlumberger Ltd. , the world’s largest
oilfield-services provider.  Youngberg, who has a “hold” rating on Halliburton shares
and owns none, said he expects the company to increase its
overseas profits as it uses improved technology around the world
and seeks to control costs. McCollum said Halliburton will
benefit from investments in countries such as Iraq, India, Libya
and Russia.  Halliburton sees expansion in unconventional projects
around the world and plans to increase its deep-water business
25 percent faster than the market,  Tim Probert , president of
global business lines, said today. The company said it has an
active acquisition program and may look at purchases larger than
some of its transactions from recent years. Halliburton also
expects to triple sales at its Boots & Coots well-intervention
unit in three years.  Halliburton is a leading provider of technology that
companies use in North American shale formations to fracture
rocks and help natural gas and oil to flow. The number of active
U.S. onshore drilling rigs has reached the highest level since
December 2008, according to data compiled by Baker Hughes.  Crandell of Barclays Capital said he expects more North
American gas rigs to go offline than oil rigs that come online,
which would affect demand for services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edward Klump  in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 