-- Allianz Says It May Hit `Upper End' of Full-Year Earnings Target
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2010-11-10T16:54:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/allianz-posts-1-7-billion-third-quarter-profit-beating-analyst-estimates.html
Allianz SE , Europe’s biggest
insurer, said it may hit the upper end of its full-year earnings
forecast after reporting third-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates.  Net income fell to 1.26 billion euros ($1.74 billion) from
1.37 billion euros in the year-earlier period, the company said
in an e-mailed statement today. That topped the 1.2 billion-euro
average estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “With this strong performance, I expect our full-year
operating profit to trend towards the upper end of our target
range” of 7.2 billion euros, plus or minus 500 million euros,
Chief Executive Officer  Michael Diekmann  said in the statement.
Operating profit advanced 2.3 percent to 2.06 billion euros in
the third quarter.  The forecast “seems not to be over-optimistic,”  Konrad Becker , an analyst at Merck Finck & Co. in Munich who recommends
buying the stock, wrote in a report to clients.  Insurers’ profitability is under pressure as low interest
rates weigh on investment returns and demand for life insurance
weakens. Reduced prices in property and casualty coverage such
as motor insurance and catastrophe claims are also hurting
earnings across the industry. This year saw a number of costly
natural disasters including European winter storm Xynthia and
the earthquake that hit Chile in February.  Catastrophe Losses  In August, torrential rain caused flash floods in the
Liberec region, north of Prague, and in the Elbe river basin in
Poland and Germany. Allianz recorded “high losses from natural
catastrophes and bad weather conditions” in the three-month
period, it said in the  quarterly report  published on its
website. Flooding, windstorms and a hailstorm caused net losses
of about 137 million euros in Germany in the quarter.  The property and casualty insurance unit reported a 12
percent increase in net income to 872 million euros, helped by
“an improved underwriting result and higher operating
investment income,” Allianz said.  The unit’s spending on claims and other costs as a
percentage of premiums, also known as the combined ratio, was
97.1 percent, compared with 96.9 percent a year earlier. A ratio
above 100 percent means an insurer’s claims and costs exceed
premium income, giving it a loss from underwriting.  “Prices in several core markets continued to rise, and are
expected to keep rising in 2011,” Allianz Chief Financial
Officer  Oliver Baete  said in today’s statement.  Life and Health  Profit at Allianz’s life and health insurance unit dropped
33 percent to 445 million euros, reflecting “last year’s
exceptionally high third-quarter investment result when markets
strongly rebounded from the financial crisis,” it said.  Allianz shares fell 2.5 percent to 90.14 euros at the 5:30
p.m. close of trading in Frankfurt, after climbing as much as
1.1 percent earlier today. Banks and insurers declined across
Europe amid renewed concern the region’s weakest economies will
struggle to reduce their deficits.  Net income at Allianz’s asset management unit, which
includes Newport Beach, California-based  Pacific Investment
Management Co. , almost doubled to 281 million euros from 146
million euros a year ago. The division had third-party net
inflows of 40 billion euros in the quarter, the company said.  Axa SA , Europe’s second-biggest insurer, last month
reported a 4.4 percent increase in third-quarter sales on higher
property and casualty premiums, while outflows at the Paris-
based insurer’s asset-management business continued.  Zurich
Financial Services AG , Switzerland’s largest insurer, said on
Nov. 4 that third-quarter profit dropped 22 percent after the
firm settled a U.S. class action lawsuit.  ICBC Stake  Quarterly earnings at Allianz were boosted by a 113
million-euro gain from the sale of shares in  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  That brought gross unrealized
gains related to a stake in the Beijing-based lender to 475
million euros at the end of September, according to the
quarterly report. Allianz said it sold further ICBC shares with
a capital gain of about 100 million euros in October.  The insurer booked a 121 million-euro fair value charge on
warrants included in its investment in U.S. insurer  Hartford
Financial Services Group Inc.  Allianz invested $2.5 billion in
Hartford in 2008 via subordinated debt, shares and warrants.  Allianz’s solvency ratio, a measure of the insurer’s
ability to absorb losses, fell to 168 percent in the third
quarter from 170 percent at the end of June. That’s within the
company’s target range of 150 percent to 170 percent.  The insurer is sticking to a dividend payout ratio of about
40 percent and doesn’t have plans currently to return capital to
investors via share buybacks, CFO Baete said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oliver Suess  in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  