-- Ambac, TerreStar, Black Crow, Orleans: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-11-10T13:47:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/ambac-black-crow-orleans-washington-times-hmp-bankruptcy.html
Ambac Financial Group Inc.  drew
first blood in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun Nov. 8 by
suing to block the Internal Revenue Service from taking back
$700 million in tax refunds already paid.  Ambac said yesterday that the IRS, unless stopped, could
scuttle the rehabilitation of Ambac Assurance Corp., the
principal insurance subsidiary that was taken over by regulators
in Wisconsin earlier this year.  The IRS headed off an immediate conflict by agreeing not to
take action to recover the refund without five days’ notice.
Next year, the bankruptcy court is to decide if it has the power
to stop the IRS from recovering the refund.  Ambac said in papers filed in bankruptcy court in Manhattan
that the refunds were turned over to AAC, the principal
operating subsidiary. The IRS recently informed Ambac that it
may re-assess tax liabilities and demand a return of refunds
already paid.  The Wisconsin insurance regulator already obtained help
from the state court intended to block the IRS from levying on
assets in the rehabilitation. Ambac is concerned that the IRS
may believe it isn’t bound by the state court action.  Rather than enjoining the IRS from taking back the refund,
Ambac wanted the bankruptcy judge to enter an injunction
requiring the IRS to give five days’ notice of any effort to
recover the refunds. The IRS in effect agreed in a stipulation
to be given the judge to sign. The complaint filed against the
IRS also asks the bankruptcy judge to declare that Ambac has no
tax liability for the years 2003 through 2008.  Eventually, a sticking point for Ambac may be the Anti-
Injunction Act, part of federal tax law that precludes any court
from making an injunction to stop the collection or assessment
of taxes. Ambac argues that the Anti-Injunction Act isn’t
applicable in bankruptcy as the result of a provision in the
Bankruptcy Code where the federal government waives sovereign
immunity.  Ambac filed under Chapter 11 after it was unable to work
out a so-called prepackaged reorganization with the insurance
commissioner and an ad hoc committee of holders of senior debt.
Instead, it has a “non-binding term sheet” with the insurance
commissioner, to be the “basis for further negotiations with
the ad-hoc committee,” the company said in a court filing.  Ambac’s petition listed liabilities on a non-consolidated
basis of $1.69 billion, including $1.22 billion on six issues of
senior unsecured notes and $400 million in subordinated notes.  The Wisconsin regulator created a so-called special account
in March for more than $57 billion in policies issued by AAC.
The policies in the segregated account are for credit default
swaps, residential mortgage-backed securities, the Las Vegas
Monorail and some student loans. The remainder of AAC’s
insurance policies aren’t in the state-court rehabilitation.  AAC stopped paying dividends to Ambac in 2007 and stopped
writing new business in mid-2008.  The term sheet with the insurance regulator would allow
Ambac to reorganize around the insurance business that isn’t in
rehabilitation. Other assets to be kept by Ambac include some of
the $7.5 billion in tax-loss carryforwards.  The Wisconsin regulator proposed a rehabilitation plan for
the special account under which holders of allowed claims would
be paid 25 percent in cash and 75 percent in notes.  The case is In re Ambac Financial Group Inc., 10-15973,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Updates  Opposition Mounts to TerreStar Loan, Reorganization Plan  TerreStar Networks Inc. has a hearing on Nov. 16 where the
bankruptcy judge in New York may make rulings that decide
whether the provider of mobile and Internet communications
services is taken over in a debt-for-equity swap by  EchoStar
Corp. , the largest secured creditor.  Several creditors filed objections yesterday to approval of
financing and a so-called plan support agreement which would
commit TerreStar to pursue the plan giving control to EchoStar.
The agreements are to be considered for approval at the Nov. 16
hearing.  TerreStar filed the plan and explanatory disclosure
statement last week. Approval of the disclosure statement is set
for consideration at a Dec. 12 hearing.  The plan would exchange 97 percent of the reorganized
company’s common stock for the $944 million in 15 percent senior
secured pay-in-kind notes. The secured creditors also would have
the right to purchase 97 percent of the preferred stock in a
$125 million rights offering. EchoStar would backstop $100
million of the offering.  Unsecured creditors, including holders of the $179 million
in 6.5 percent exchangeable pay-in-kind notes, would share 3
percent of the new stock and the right to purchase 3 percent in
the rights offering.  Opposition to the financing and the plan-support agreement
was lodged by Harbinger Capital Partners LLC, Solus Alternative
Asset Management LP, Remus Holdings LLC and  Sprint Nextel Corp.   Harbinger argues that the financing serves no purpose other
than allowing EchoStar to take control of the case. Solus and
Remus say the “timeline” in the financing makes other plans
“all but impossible.” They contend that the plan-support
agreement is a “sub rosa plan.”  Sprint Nextel says the financing improperly gives
unencumbered assets to EchoStar.  Solus and Millennium International Management LP, holders
of preferred stock, also have a motion on the Nov. 16 calendar
asking the bankruptcy judge to dismiss the Chapter 11 cases of
seven TerreStar affiliates. They say the companies don’t need
reorganization and the value of their businesses should flow to
the parent company,  TerreStar Corp.   TerreStar, based in Reston, Virginia, provides mobile
satellite coverage throughout the U.S. and Canada where
traditional mobile networks are unavailable. EchoStar, a
television-equipment and satellite-services company, is offering
financing for the Chapter 11 case.  EchoStar, based in Englewood, Colorado, and New York hedge
fund Harbinger are TerreStar Corp.’s largest  shareholders ,
according to Bloomberg data.  TerreStar Networks listed assets $1.4 billion and debt
totaling $1.64 billion. In addition to the 15 percent and 6.5
percent notes, debt includes $86 million on a purchase money
credit agreement. The purchase money debt would remain in place
under the TerreStar plan.  The case is In re TerreStar Networks Inc., 10-15446, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Black Crow Files Reorganization Plan as Exclusivity Expires  Black Crow Media Group LLC , a closely held owner of 22
radio stations, filed a proposed Chapter 11 plan on Nov. 8, just
as the exclusive right to propose a reorganization was expiring.  The plan offers alternatives to  General Electric Capital
Corp ., the secured lender owed $38.9 million at the outset of
the reorganization in January. The first option would allow
Stamford, Connecticut-based GECC to take $13 million in cash and
walk away. The second option would give GECC a 10-year note for
about $15.6 million, representing the value of the collateral.  The note would pay 4 percent interest and 1 percent a year
in principal, plus a portion of excess cash flow. For the
deficiency claim, GECC would receive 20 percent of sale proceeds
above $3 million. If GECC votes against the plan, it would take
the second option if the judge approves the plan.  Black Crow hopes to come out even better as the result of a
lawsuit filed in October. Based on what it called “misconduct”
by GECC before and during the Chapter 11 case, Black Crow says
GECC’s claim should be subordinated.  The plan would pay unsecured creditors in full over five
years. Unsecured claims are less than $700,000, according to the
disclosure statement explaining the plan.  The bankruptcy judge said in July that Black Crow’s
exclusive right to propose a plan wouldn’t be extended beyond
Nov. 8 “unless truly extraordinary circumstances occur which
could not have been reasonably anticipated.” In March, Black
Crow defeated a motion by GECC to dismiss the case or allow
foreclosure.  Black Crow filed for Chapter 11 protection in January, two
days before a hearing in a U.S. district court where GECC was
seeking appointment of a receiver following defaults on term
loans and a revolving credit.  Black Crow’s stations are in five markets in Florida,
Alabama, Georgia and Tennessee. In addition to the GECC debt,
Black Crow said at the outset that another $6 million was owing
to unsecured creditors. Daytona Beach, Florida-based Black Crow
had $12.9 million of revenue in 2009, down 23 percent from 2008.  The case is In re Black Crow Media Group LLC, 10-00172,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Middle District of Florida
(Jacksonville).  Nearing Confirmation, Orleans Has More Exclusivity  Orleans Homebuilders Inc ., whose reorganization plan is
scheduled for approval this month, received an extension of the
exclusive right to propose a plan until Nov. 26, in case the
plan isn’t approved at the Nov. 16 confirmation hearing.  The bankruptcy judge on Nov. 8 also approved a settlement
where Chairman and Chief Executive  Jeffrey P. Orleans  will
receive $700,000 cash to resign and waive claims. For details
and background on the settlement, click here for the Oct. 19
Bloomberg bankruptcy report. For a summary of the plan, click
here for the Nov. 8 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Orleans, based in Bensalem, Pennsylvania, builds homes and
condominiums in seven states. The Chapter 11 filing in March
followed maturity of the revolving credit the prior month. About
$325 million was owing to the banks at maturity, not including
$15 million on letters of credit. The March 31 balance sheet
listed assets of $591 million against total liabilities of $560
million.  The case is In re Orleans Homebuilders Inc., 10-10684, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Washington Times Wins $40,000 in Damages From Petitioner  Filing an unsuccessful involuntary bankruptcy petition
against Washington Times LLC cost Richard A. Steinbronn $40,000.  Steinbronn, a lawyer, filed the involuntary petition on
Oct. 21. The bankruptcy judge in Washington dismissed the
petition six days later, reserving the newspaper’s right to seek
damages from Steinbronn.  Rather than fight, Steinbronn consented to having a $40,000
judgment entered against him, court records show. Steinbronn
also admitted that he didn’t have the right to file the petition
on behalf of two companies that joined him as involuntary
petitioners.  Bankruptcy law includes penalties for improperly filing an
involuntary petition. If the petition is dismissed, the
petitioner can be required to pay the allegedly bankrupt
company’s attorneys’ fees.  By agreeing to the $40,000 judgment, Steinbronn avoided the
possibility that the bankruptcy judge in addition would assess
punitive damages for a bad faith filing.  The case is In re Washington Times LLC, 10-01041, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court for the District of Columbia.  Statistics  Individual Bankruptcies Up, Commercial Filings Down  The almost 130,000 bankruptcy filings in October
represented a 1.7 percent increase from the daily rate in
September and the third-highest total for any month this year.  Bankruptcies may total almost 1.6 million this year, about
10 percent more than the 1.45 million in 2009, according to data
compiled from court records by  Epiq Systems Inc.  Filings last
year climbed 32 percent from 2008.  While total filings increase, commercial bankruptcies and
Chapter 11 reorganizations are declining this year.  Through October, Chapter 11s by larger companies filing to
reorganize or liquidate are on track to decline about 9.5
percent compared with the almost 15,200 in 2009, Kansas City,
Kansas-based  Epiq  said in its report.  Commercial filings, which include businesses in all forms
of bankruptcy, are declining 3.7 percent from the almost 90,000
in 2009.  Nevada remains the state with the highest per capita
filings, followed by Georgia and Tennessee. Filings are
increasing most rapidly in Hawaii, California and Utah.  Bankruptcy filings still trail the record 2.1 million in
2005, when 630,000 Americans sought protection from creditors in
the two weeks before revisions to federal bankruptcy law became
effective in October of that year. The changes made it more
difficult for individuals to erase debt.  New Filing  HMP Services Files to Liquidate and Distribute Assets  HMP Services Holdings Sub III LLC, formerly one of the
largest U.S. suppliers to the graphics industry, filed a Chapter
11 petition on Nov. 8 in Delaware to liquidate and distribute
the remainder of the assets.  Most of the assets were sold in August to  Agfa Corp.  for
$74.9 million in cash and other considerations. The sale paid
off one secured loan, leaving $4.2 million owing to Orix Finance
Corp., another secured creditor.  The sale took away all assets except tax refunds, the
surrender value of insurance policies, and lawsuits against
third parties, a court filing says.  The company filed a proposed liquidating Chapter 11 plan
and disclosure statement along with the petition. Orix would get
most of the liquidation proceeds under the plan. The papers
don’t say what percentage recovery Orix or unsecured creditors
can expect.  In addition to Orix, the Grafton, Massachusetts-based
company owes $9.4 million on unsecured claims, according to the
filing.  Financial failure resulted from the 2007 acquisition of a
company called Charrette and a sales decline of 29 percent from
fiscal 2007 through fiscal 2010. The loss was $8.1 million for
the first five months of 2010.  The case is In re HMP Services Holdings Sub III LLC, 10-
13618, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Daily Podcast  Bankruptcy Ethics, Garlock Sealing and Brown Publishing: Audio  A significant ruling limiting when lawyers may solicit
business from creditors and an analysis of rulings from non-New
York and non-Delaware judges in the reorganizations of Garlock
Sealing Technologies LLC and  Brown Publishing Co.  are covered in
the bankruptcy podcast on the Bloomberg terminal and
Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here.  Briefly Noted  General Growth Implements Last of Chapter 11 Plans  General Growth Properties Inc.  completed the largest real
estate reorganization in history yesterday by implementing the
Chapter 11 plan for the top-tier companies that the bankruptcy
judge approved in an Oct. 21 confirmation order. The plan splits
the company into two parts, with shareholders of record on Nov.
1 receiving stock in both. The primary company, continuing the
General Growth name and trading under the symbol GGP, will have
183 shopping malls in 43 states.  Subsidiaries owning the properties previously confirmed
their own Chapter 11 plans. All plans paid every creditor in
full. For other Bloomberg coverage, click here.  General Growth began the reorganization by filing under
Chapter 11 in April 2009. The books of Chicago-based General
Growth had assets of $29.6 billion and total liabilities of
$27.3 billion as of Dec. 31, 2008.  The case is In re General Growth Properties Inc., 09-11977,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Circuit City Trust Filing 600 Preference Suits  Another painful experience in the liquidation of
electronics retailer  Circuit City Stores Inc . is just now
beginning for some creditors. The liquidating trust created
under the confirmed Chapter 11 plan is filing 600 lawsuits,
mostly to recover preferences, said  Robert J. Feinstein , a
lawyer with Pachulski Stang Ziehl & Jones LLP, which represents
the trust.  A preference is a payment made within 90 days of bankruptcy
on account of overdue unsecured claims. There can be several
defenses to offset part or all of a preference claim.  For a description of Circuit City’s liquidating plan, which
was confirmed in September, click here for the Sept. 1 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  The Chapter 11 filing was in November 2008 in Circuit
City’s hometown of Richmond, Virginia. The petition listed
assets of $3.4 billion and debt totaling $2.3 billion as of Aug.
31, 2008.  The case is In re Circuit City Stores Inc., 08-35653, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond).  Rhode Island Twin River Casino Consummates Plan  The  Twin River  racetrack-casino in Lincoln, Rhode Island,
implemented the reorganization plan on Nov. 5 that the
bankruptcy judge approved in a June 24 confirmation order. UTGR
Inc., the track’s owner, needed the state to adopt legislation
to implement the reorganization. The new law allowed UTGR to
halt dog racing and operate 24 hours a day, seven days a week.  First-lien creditors owed $415 million are to take home an
estimated 89 percent by receiving all the new stock plus a $300
million secured note. For details on the plan, click here for
the June 25 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The formal lists of creditors showed debt of $568 million,
with $564 million secured. Revenue in 2008 was $410 million.  The case is In re UTGR Inc. d/b/a Twin River, 09-12418,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Rhode Island (Providence).  Mexicana Has $154 Million Plan to Resume Operations  Compania Mexicana de Aviacion SA, the Mexican airline known
as Mexicana, may resume operations if its unions and creditors
embrace a proposal for a 1.9 billion-peso ($154 million)
investment by PC Capital SAPI, a Mexican private equity firm.
The Mexican government supports the proposal. It would allow
Mexicana to resume operations with 28 aircraft serving 17
international and seven domestic destinations. For Bloomberg
coverage, click here.  This week, the bankruptcy judge in New York recognized the
Mexican reorganization as the “foreign main proceeding” under
Chapter 15 of U.S. bankruptcy law. Mexicana filed the Chapter 15
petition on Aug. 2 and simultaneously began a reorganization in
Mexico called a concurso mercantile. Mexicana stopped flying on
Aug. 28.  The U.S. case is Compania Mexicana De Aviacion SA de CV,
10-14182, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Watch List  Clearwire Downgraded to CCC on Depleting Cash  Clearwire Corp. , the builder of what it calls the “first
nationwide 4G mobile broadband network,” had its corporate
rating lowered yesterday to CCC, a two-notch downgrade from
Standard & Poor’s.  S&P was reacting to the company’s disclosure in financial
reports for the September quarter that liquidity will be
depleted by mid-2011 absent additional financing.  Clearwire, based in Kirkland, Washington, calls its system
WiMax. The company posted a $1.47 billion operating loss for the
nine months ended Sept. 30 on revenue of $347 million.  Clearwire said in the regulatory filing that there is
substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going
concern.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 