-- Anglo Has an `Optimistic' Outlook on Demand For Its Commodities, CEO Says
-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2010-11-10T10:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/anglo-has-an-optimistic-outlook-on-demand-for-its-commodities-ceo-says.html
Anglo American Plc , owner of stakes
in some of the world’s biggest metal and diamond mines, said it
has an “optimistic” outlook for its commodities as demand
increases from China and other emerging markets.  “We are quite optimistic in terms of the outlook, driven
largely by emerging countries,” Chief Executive Officer  Cynthia Carroll  said today in Seoul. “It’s driven out of China, GDP
growth out of China and GDP growth out of India.”  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index  of 19 raw materials
has advanced 13 percent this year, rallying to a 25-month high
yesterday. Factory output in China, the top consumer of raw
materials from copper to soybeans, grew at the fastest pace in
six months in October. The nation’s economy expanded 9.6 percent
in the third quarter.  Anglo American expects the “strong” demand for copper to
continue, Carroll said. Copper has surged 35 percent in the past
year as the global economy recovered from the worst recession
since World War II and the dollar fell.  “We saw copper prices increasing substantially and we
expect continued, very strong demand,” said Carroll, who is in
Seoul for the business summit of the Group of 20 leaders’
meeting that starts tomorrow. The two-day business summit began
today.  Refined-copper output will lag behind demand next year for
the first time since 2007, the International Copper Study Group
has said.  Copper futures for delivery in three months fell 0.8
percent to $8,787.50 a metric ton as of 6:20 p.m. Seoul time on
the London Metal Exchange.  Anglo American, which has suffered delays and cost overruns
at its biggest project, has secured two more of the “key
licenses’ it needs to start operations at its Minas Rio iron-ore
development in Brazil, Carroll said in an interview on Oct. 29.  “It’s progressing very well,” Carroll said today. “We
are very much in line with what I announced in the interim
results presentation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew  Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  