-- Anglo Gets `Huge' Asian Interest for New Copper Supply
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2010-11-10T22:46:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/anglo-receives-huge-interest-from-china-for-new-metal-supply.html
Anglo American Plc  is receiving
“huge” interest for 200,000 metric tons of new copper capacity
it expects to bring online in 2012, said  John MacKenzie , head of
the company’s copper business.  Chinese, Japanese and Indian buyers are mainly interested
in the new supply, he said today in an interview in Santiago.
London-based Anglo is spending between $2.3 billion and $2.5
billion to expand its Los Bronces copper mine in central Chile
to meet surging demand, according to the company’s website.  Copper has surged 19 percent this year, trading within 1
percent of a record yesterday, as the global economy recovers
from the worst recession since World War II. The world’s copper
market has the potential to face a longer “structural
shortage” than that for any other metal,  Peter Richardson ,
chief metals economist at Morgan Stanley Australia Ltd., said
yesterday.  “It’s going to be a really tough call for supply to keep
up with demand,” MacKenzie said. “There’s been huge demand for
signing up additional production that we’re going to be bringing
online.”  Anglo sells most of its copper on long-term contracts,
Mackenzie said. The “lion’s share of that is likely to find its
way into Asia,” he said.  Global copper demand outweighs available supplies, which is
“encouraging” for prices, Daniel Muniz, Grupo Mexico SAB’s
chief financial officer, said today at the Bloomberg Mexico
Economic Summit in Mexico City.  Lagging Behind  Anglo declined 4 pence, or 0.1 percent, to 2,955 pence
earlier today. The shares have climbed 21.4 percent in the past
twelve months on rising demand for commodities.  Refined-copper output will lag behind demand next year for
the first time since 2007, the International Copper Study Group
has said.  Anglo’s 2010 copper production will be lower than last year
because the company is mining lower grade ore at its Los Bronces
mine, MacKenzie said. Anglo will boost output because of richer
ore at the El Soldado mine and as it expands its Los Bronces
mine in the fourth quarter of 2011, he said.  Copper  stockpiles  in warehouses monitored by the London
Metal Exchange have fallen from more than 500,000 tons at the
beginning of the year to 363,950 tons. That trend may continue
because of surging demand from emerging economies and because of
delays to new projects, Mackenzie said.  Fluctuations  The introduction of exchange-traded funds backed by
warehoused copper has the potential to cause “short-term
fluctuations,” MacKenzie said. Anglo hasn’t held negotiations
with base metal ETFs. Anglo doesn’t rule out negotiating with
them in the future, he said.  “I don’t think we would see it causing a major shift
structurally over the long-term,” he said. Supply and demand
fundamentals “will eventually be what dictates the
attractiveness of the market.”  Copper fell the most in two weeks in New York and slid in
London today as imports of the metal into China, the world’s
largest consumer, fell for a second month. Copper for delivery
in December dropped 6.55 cents, or 1.6 percent to $3.9775 a
pound at 11:48 a.m. on the Comex in New York.  ‘Best’ Portfolio  Anglo may have the “best” portfolio of projects in the
copper business as it expands the Collahuasi copper mine in
Chile, in which it owns a 44 percent stake, and its Quellaveco
and Michiquillay projects in Peru, Mackenzie said.  An increase in Chile’s mining taxes may force the company
to cancel expansions at the company’s higher cost mines such as
the Mantos Blancos and Mantoverde operations in northern Chile,
Mackenzie said. An increase in the royalty would unlikely affect
investments at the company’s bigger projects such as Collahuasi
and Los Bronces, he said. Anglo is still studying whether to
adhere to Chile’s new voluntary tax program, he said.  MacKenzie said Anglo has the potential to double its copper
production over the next five years. The company may study
acquisitions if a potential target can “add value,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Craze  in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  