-- ANZ Joins Commonwealth in Raising Interest Rates by More Than Central Bank
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2010-11-10T06:06:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/anz-banking-changes-deposit-lending-rates-raises-variable-home-loan-rate.html
Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd.  has joined Commonwealth Bank of Australia in raising
its standard mortgage interest rate by more than last week’s
quarter percentage point increase by the central bank.  ANZ Bank will raise its variable home loan interest rate to
7.80 percent from 7.41 percent and promised to scrap exit fees
for customers who switch lenders, the Melbourne-based bank said
in a statement.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the nation’s
largest lender, last week increased its variable rate by 45
basis points, almost double the Reserve Bank of Australia’s Nov.
2 move.  Mortgage rate gains that outpace those of the central
bank’s benchmark rate are fueling a public backlash against
Australia’s largest banks, which tightened their grip on the
mortgage market since 2007. Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said last week
that  Commonwealth Bank ’s move is a “cynical cash grab” and
pledged reforms to boost industry competition.  “Raising lending rates is never an easy decision,” said
 Philip Chronican , chief executive officer of the bank’s
Australian business, said in today’s statement. “We’ve also
recognized that we need to take the lead in doing more to give
customers’ choice and help them manage their finances in this
uncertain interest rate environment.”  ANZ Bank customers will pay an extra A$924 ($927) a year in
repayments on an average A$300,000 mortgage.  Funding Costs  Banks have said increasing costs of raising funds in
international debt markets are forcing them to boost interest
rates to avoid a margin squeeze. Commonwealth Bank Chief
Executive Officer  Ralph Norris  said Oct. 14 that funding costs
have jumped “significantly” and will remain elevated.  Commonwealth Bank’s standard variable home loan interest
rate was increased to 7.81 percent on Nov. 5  “The intense competition for deposits and high wholesale
funding costs is very real and has continued to increase the
average cost of lending,” Chronican said today.  ANZ Bank said it will abolish so-called deferred
establishment fees on mortgage customers who change banks, and
pledged up to A$1,600 in discounts on switching costs and loan
approval fees for new customers until the end of the year.  Mortgage rates are a topic of public debate in Australia,
where more than 90 percent of homeowners have  variable-rate home
loans  and household debt equals more than 150 percent of pretax
income.  ‘Four Pillars’  While banks and brokerages posted losses and writedowns
totaling $1.3 trillion worldwide since the start of the
financial crisis, Australia’s four biggest lenders avoided state
bailouts and swallowed smaller rivals.  Commonwealth Bank,  Westpac Banking Corp.,  National
Australia Bank Ltd. and ANZ Bank -- dubbed the “four pillars”
after a law preventing takeovers among them -- accounted for 87
percent of the  home lending market  in September, up from 76
percent three years ago.  Westpac, Australia’s second-largest bank, said Nov. 3 that
profit in the six months to Sept. 30 almost tripled from a year
earlier, while ANZ Bank said last week that earnings in the
period surged 69 percent and  National Australia , the biggest
lender to companies, posted a cash profit gain of 32 percent.
Combined profit at the lenders reached a record.  The lenders have benefited from an economy that skirted the
worst worldwide recession since World War II and government
guarantees on deposits and debt issues introduced by Treasurer
Swan at the height of global financial crisis.  The Australian Securities & Investments Commission, today
 released guidance  on the banking  regulators’ powers to enforce
new consumer credit laws, including suspending or canceling a
credit license.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  