-- Apple Suppliers Squeezed as Taiwan Dollar Climbs Most in Asia
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2010-11-10T08:53:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/apple-suppliers-squeezed-as-taiwan-dollar-climbs-most-in-asia.html
Apple Inc. ’s suppliers in Taiwan say
their earnings are being crimped as the local dollar climbs
faster than the rest of Asia’s currencies in the past month,
raising the prospect of higher prices.  Wintek Corp. , which provides touch-panel displays to
Cupertino, California-based Apple, estimates a 1 percent
increase in the exchange rate shaves 0.5 percentage point off
its gross margin, or earnings after production expenses, Chief
Financial Officer Jay Huang said in an interview from Taichung.
 Largan Precision Co. , a camera-lens supplier for Apple, said a 1
percent appreciation knocks 0.4 point off the measure of
profitability, according to Chief Financial Officer  Charles Chiu .  The Taiwan dollar has strengthened 2.5 percent against the
U.S. dollar in the past month, the most among 10 Asian emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The local dollar rose
7.2 percent in the past year, beating the South Korean won’s 4.6
percent advance and Indonesian rupiah’s 5.9 percent gain.  “A lot of the technology firms in Taiwan are export-
oriented, so if the strong currency continues we might have to
think about raising prices,” Huang said in the Nov. 8
interview. The company’s business “will be seriously hurt” if
the Taiwan dollar rises beyond NT$30 against the greenback as 90
percent of sales are in dollars, he said.  More Gains  The currency may appreciate further because printing of
dollars in the U.S. will prompt funds to seek higher-yielding
local assets, Wee-Ming Ting, the Singapore-based head of
regional fixed income at Pictet Asset Management, said in an
interview on Nov. 4. Non-deliverable forwards show the currency
will advance another 3.8 percent to NT$29.50 in the next 12
months. The contracts, settled in dollars, are agreements to buy
or sell the currency at a set price and date.  The Taiwan dollar reached NT$30.04 on Nov. 5, the strongest
level since March 2008, according to Taipei Forex Inc. The last
time the currency rose beyond NT$30 was in October 1997. The
Financial Supervisory Commission yesterday said that foreign
investors can’t invest more than 30 percent of their funds in
government bonds and money-market products.  “There’s still more room for the Taiwan dollar to
strengthen,” said Ting at Pictet Asset, which oversees more
than $17 billion of emerging-market debt globally. “In a
backdrop of global liquidity resulting from the Fed’s
quantitative easing phase 2, capital will flow to Asian shores
and cause Asian currencies to appreciate further.”  ‘Difficult’  A 1 percent gain in the currency will cut net income of Tu-
Chen City-based Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., the biggest
contract manufacturer of Apple’s electronics, by 0.7 percent
this year, and Taichung-based Largan’s by 2.3 percent,  Alison Chen , a research associate at Yuanta Securities Co. in Taipei,
said in an interview on Nov. 8.  “It’d be great if we could raise prices but it’s difficult
because of the competition,” Largan’s Chiu said in an interview
on Nov. 4. “There’s no doubt the appreciation of the Taiwan
dollar is hurting the company’s business.”  Apple forecast profit on Oct. 18 for the current quarter
that will rise less than analysts predicted. Profit will be
about $4.80 a share in the current period, which includes the
yearend holiday shopping season. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
had predicted $5.03.  ‘More Cautious’  “I do think component price increases have been factored
into Apple’s guidance and hence it’s more cautious gross margin
guidance in the last quarter,” said  Shaw Wu , an analyst at
Kaufman Bros. in San Francisco. “The reality is that all the
vendors involved will likely absorb these higher costs.”  Jill Tan , a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman at Apple, didn’t
return calls and e-mail seeking comment.  Asian economies may need to turn to capital controls as
monetary easing in the U.S. threatens to spur asset bubbles in
the region,  Sri Mulyani Indrawati , a World Bank managing
director, said in an interview on Nov. 8.  U.S. policy makers said on Nov. 3 they will buy an
additional $600 billion of Treasuries, building on $1.7 trillion
of asset purchases made between December 2008 and March of this
year, known as quantitative easing. Taiwan’s benchmark interest
rate is 1.5 percent, compared with the Fed’s target rate of a
maximum 0.25 percent.  Higher Reserves  The  Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan)  has been
buying the U.S. dollar almost every day to check appreciation in
the local currency, according to traders familiar with the
monetary authority’s operations who asked not to be identified.
Taiwan’s foreign-exchange  reserves  surged 10 percent this year
to a record $383.8 billion in October.  One-month implied volatility for the Taiwan dollar, a
measure of currency swings used to price options, has almost
doubled from 3.85 percent on Sept. 21 to 6.7 percent.  The Taiwan dollar will also strengthen as the central bank
raises  borrowing costs  and as China, the island’s biggest
trading partner, allows faster gains in the yuan, said  Sergey Dergachev , who helps manage the equivalent of $8.4 billion of
emerging-market debt at Union Investment in Frankfurt.  “Taiwan can deliver two or three more rate hikes before
the Fed,” Dergachev said. “Gradual appreciation out of the
Chinese yuan will also be something that can add pressure on
Taiwan’s dollar.”  To contact the reporters on the story:
 Andrea Wong  in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net ;
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  