-- Taqa Third-Quarter Net More Than Doubles on Commodity Prices, One-Off Gain
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2010-11-10T10:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/taqa-of-abu-dhabi-says-quarterly-more-than-doubles-to-218-million-dirhams.html
Abu Dhabi National Energy Co. , the
state-run utility known as Taqa, said third-quarter profit more
than doubled because of higher oil prices and a one-off gain, as
the company presses ahead with expansion plans.  Net income  advanced to 218 million dirhams ($59.4 million)
from 90 million dirhams a year earlier, Taqa said today in a
 statement . Revenue rose to 5.2 billion dirhams from 3.9 billion
a year earlier.  “The year-on-year increase in net income resulted
primarily from increased commodity prices, share of income from
the Sohar aluminum plant and liquidated damages received for
Fujairah 2, partly offset by increased income tax,” the company
said in the statement. “The power business continued to provide
stable revenue and net income.”  Profit increased along with oil, which rose to an average
$76.21 a barrel in the quarter from $68.24 a year ago. Taqa’s
earnings jumped sevenfold in the first three months after crude
prices more than doubled. Revenue from oil and gas advanced to
1.6 billion dirhams from 1.4 billion dirhams a year earlier,
while revenue from power and water was stable at 1.6 billion
dirhams.  Taqa, which is spending $1.4 billion this year to develop
assets, owns stakes in oil and gas production and power
generation assets in the Middle East, North America, India and
the North Sea. The company agreed last week to terms on $3
billion of credit lines, which it will use to refinance a $3.15
billion facility maturing in 2011.  Increased Stake  Abu Dhabi Water and Electricity Authority, Taqa’s majority
owner, transferred 90 percent of its interest in the Fujairah 2
plant to Taqa in the third quarter, giving the company a 54
percent interest in the power station, according to the
statement. The company also received net liquidated damages of
311 million dirhams due to a delay in the plant’s completion to
the end of 2010.  Last month Taqa hired David Cook, who previously worked for
over 20 years with BP Plc and Amoco Corp, as head of upstream.  “The outlook is positive for Taqa as they hired an
upstream expert which shows they are keen to expand in that area
and will benefit from higher oil prices,” said  Vishal Shah , a
Kuwait-based analyst for Global Invesment House KSCC. “I don’t
foresee many acquisitions this year or the next as they need to
capitalize on the many they have already made.”  Acquisitions  The company agreed in September to buy  Total SA ’s 81
percent-equity stake in production licenses for two mature oil
blocks in the North Sea. In August Taqa raised its stake in the
1 billion-euro ($1.4 billion) Bergermeer gas storage project in
the Netherlands to 60 percent. It bought 40 percent of Sohar
Aluminium Co. of Oman in June.  Taqa is meeting its 2010 production target of 126,000
barrels of oil equivalent a day to 138,000 barrels a day, Chief
Financial Officer  Doug Fraser  said on a conference call today.  It completed a quarter of the divestment program at its
Canadian unit Taqa North, selling assets that produce 2,000
barrels a day of oil equivalent out of an initial 8,100 barrels
a day, and will complete another sale during the fourth quarter,
General Manager  Carl Sheldon  said on the call.  Taqa filed motions on Nov. 5 to dismiss claims against it
by the company’s former chief Chief Executive Officer  Peter Barker-Homek , who left last year after making almost a dozen
 acquisitions  in three years. Barker-Homek claimed he was forced
out after trying “to put a stop to the kickbacks, bribery,
accounting fraud and corruption,” according to his breach-of-
contract lawsuit filed Aug. 27 in a federal court in Detroit in
the U.S. state of Michigan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ayesha Daya  in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  