-- Marilyn Monroe, Kennedy Brothers Recalled In White House Archive Auction
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2010-11-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/marilyn-monroe-kennedy-brothers-recalled-in-white-house-archive-auction.html
An image of  Marilyn Monroe  in a
skin-tight, pearl-encrusted dress flanked by President  John F. Kennedy  and his brother Robert, then U.S. attorney general, used
to be kept in an envelope tagged “Sensitive material.”  Part of a lot estimated at $4,000 to $6,000, the photograph
will be sold at Bonhams in New York as part of the 12,000-image
archive of Cecil Stoughton, the first official White House
photographer.  Timed to coincide with the 50th anniversary of Kennedy’s
election, the sale is expected to fetch as much as $250,000 on
Dec. 9, 2010.  “She is wearing an outrageous dress,” said Matthew Haley,
historical photograph specialist at Bonhams, in a telephone
interview. “We believe it’s the only picture where the three of
them appear together.”  The actress, who died less than three months after the
picture was taken, was romantically linked to both Kennedy
brothers.  Kennedy was the first president to create an official
position for a White House photographer.  Some images show Kennedy “playing golf, swimming, sailing,
smoking cigars,” said Haley. “The next image would be of him
addressing the Senate or the United Nations.”  Dark Day  The black-and-white Monroe photograph was taken on May 19,
1962, the day she sang “Happy Birthday, Mr. President” to
Kennedy at the packed  Madison Square Garden  in New York.  Another print shows Kennedy and his children John Jr. and
Caroline playing in the Oval Office. The black-and-white image
bears an inscription: “For Captain Stoughton -- who captured
beautifully a happy moment at the White House / John F.
Kennedy.” The lot has an estimated range of $7,000 to $9,000.  In other pictures, the children are “making faces, playing
or sitting at a conference table where you normally expect to
see statesmen and ambassadors,” said Haley.  Stoughton was traveling in the motorcade on the day Kennedy
was murdered in Dallas on Nov. 22, 1963. His documentation of
the day includes the hospital where Kennedy was rushed.  Within hours of the assassination, Stoughton took a
historic shot of Lyndon B. Johnson’s swearing-in ceremony aboard
Air Force One, with  Jackie Kennedy , looking shell-shocked, by
his side. The print’s estimated to take in $5,000 to $7,000.  “He didn’t even wait until he got to Washington to be
sworn in,” said Haley. “Cecil was the only photographer
present for the occasion.”  To contact the reporter of this story:
 Katya Kazakina  in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 