-- Harvard Cuts Amount of Tax-Exempts by 19% Amid Rising Yields: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l   a n d   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 2010-11-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/harvard-cuts-amount-of-tax-exempts-by-19-amid-rising-yields-muni-credit.html
Harvard University, the richest
college in the U.S., cut its bond sale by almost a fifth to $601
million as tax-exempt yields rose in most maturities amid a
sell-off in fixed income.  The university, the nation’s oldest, had planned to sell
$741 million in bonds through the Massachusetts Development
Finance Agency, according to preliminary offering documents.
Treasury yields rose to the most in five months.  “The offering was well-received and we view the outcome as
successful,” said  John Longbrake , a spokesman for the
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based university, in an e-mail. “Deals
are commonly resized based on market conditions, especially when
the issuer has flexibility in its financing strategies.”  States and municipalities are poised to offer $11.2 billion
in municipal debt this week, the  highest  since last month,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. About $5.2 billion will
be exempt from taxes. The Bloomberg 30-day Visible Supply Index
rose to  $16.9 billion , the highest since Sept. 28.  Bonds maturing in October 2028 were priced to yield 3.57
percent. That’s 0.13 percentage point below AAA  18-year  muni
debt, according to Municipal Market Advisors, an independent
research firm based in Concord, Massachusetts.  Harvard’s previous sale, a $480 million offering in
January, included 18-year bonds priced to yield 3.67 percent, or
19 basis points below the benchmark.  Refund and Renovation  Proceeds from Harvard’s offering will be used to repay
outstanding bonds, pay down commercial paper and help fund
renovation of the  Fogg art museum  and other “capital
projects,” preliminary offering documents show.  Yesterday’s sale came as 10-year tax-exempt rates rose to
the highest level since Aug. 12. Yields on top-rated tax-exempt
debt rose at every maturity from two to 30 years, according to
data from MMA. The move in muni yields came as  30-year U.S.
Treasuries  rose to the highest level in five months after the
government’s sale of $24 billion in 10-year notes drew the
lowest demand since February.  Yields on 30-year bonds climbed for a fifth day on
speculation tomorrow’s sale of $16 billion of the securities may
receive tepid demand with the Federal Reserve focusing its
purchases of Treasuries among shorter-maturity debt.  “The long Treasury bonds, that’s the real driver,”  Alan Schankel , director of fixed-income research for Philadelphia-
based Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, said in a telephone
interview. “Muni yields are just following them.”  New York City  In the taxable market, New York City Municipal Water
Finance Authority, which raises funds for the most-populous U.S.
city’s water and sewerage, increased its sale by 50 percent from
its initial offering of $750 million in Build America Bonds
yesterday, according to an agency statement.  Bonds due in 2042 were priced to yield 6.28 percent, or 207
basis points above 30-year Treasuries. The authority’s 32-year
debt in a June sale yielded about 203 basis points above
benchmark federal debt.  The Build America Bond program, which provides a 35 percent
subsidy on interest costs, is set to expire on Dec. 31. Congress
may consider an extension in the session that begins next week.
The program was part of President  Barack Obama ’s economic-
stimulus plan. Issuers have sold $159 billion of the debt so far
to help fund local public-works projects.  Following is a description of a pending sale of U.S.
municipal debt:  REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT, which manages mass-
transit operations in the Denver region, plans to issue about
$710 million in taxable and tax-exempt debt as soon as today.
About $267 million will be Build America Bonds issued as
certificates of participation. Another $300 million will be
conventional Build Americas. The RTD is selling $100 million in
traditional tax-exempts and another $43 million in tax-exempt
certificates. The bonds, rated AA, will be backed by sales tax,
with the so-called COPs, rated AA-, backed by system revenue,
according to Fitch. Banks led by Morgan Stanley will market the
COPs, and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . will handle the bonds.
(Updated Nov. 10)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandra Harris  in New York, at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 