-- Las Vegas Auburn-Georgia Bets Halted After Newton Academic Cheating Report
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-11-10T20:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/las-vegas-auburn-georgia-bets-halted-after-newton-academic-cheating-report.html
Some Las Vegas sports books have
stopped taking bets on this week’s football game between Auburn
University and the University of Georgia amid uncertainty about
the status of Tigers quarterback  Cam Newton .  Newton, a leading Heisman Trophy candidate, wouldn’t
comment yesterday on a Fox Sports report that he had three
instances of academic cheating while at the University of
Florida in 2007 and 2008. Later yesterday,  ESPN reported  that
Newton and his father had separate phone conversations with a
Mississippi State recruiter acknowledging his college choice
would be part of a play-for-pay plan.  Jay Rood, sports book director at the MGM Mirage in Las
Vegas, said the the Nov. 13 Auburn-Georgia game was taken off
the board when increased betting on the Bulldogs was spotted.  “We want to make sure the market value is right,” Rood
said in a telephone interview. “We don’t want to be looking
back on it Saturday as something that we were giving away like a
blue-light special.”  Auburn  coach  Gene Chizik  said today during a media
conference call that Newton would play this week against
Georgia. Newton has led Auburn to a No. 2 national ranking,
having passed for 1,890 yards and 19 touchdowns with five
interceptions. He’s also run for a team-leading 1,146 yards and
15 scores.  Jeff Sherman , the assistant general manager at the Las
Vegas Hilton’s sports book, said they were “playing it safe”
in suspending wagers on the Auburn-Georgia matchup. Auburn was
favored to win by 8 1/2 to 9 points.  ‘Wait and See’  “There was a lot that came out last night that didn’t
sound good,” Sherman said in a telephone interview. “I’m sure
the game will be back up by the weekend, but we’re taking a
wait-and-see approach.”  Sherman said Newton’s absence might change the betting line
by as much as six points.  Newton transferred to Auburn in January after winning a
junior college championship at Blinn College in Texas.  While a backup at Florida to Tim Tebow, Newton cheated in a
class as a freshman, Fox Sports said. The following year he
turned in another student’s paper with his name on it and
submitted a subsequent paper that was purchased off the
Internet, according to the report.  Auburn Athletic Director Jay Jacobs said yesterday that
Newton remains eligible and called the allegations “unfortunate
and sad.” Newton said yesterday he wouldn’t comment on
“whether I did or did not do it, because I don’t want to beat a
dead horse talking about it. It’s not going to affect me any
way, shape or fashion.”  ESPN said last night that a Mississippi State recruiter
said Newton’s father, Cecil, told the school that it would take
more than a scholarship to bring his son there. When Newton
committed to Auburn, he called another Mississippi State
recruiter and said his father chose the school for him because
“the money was too much,” ESPN said.  The National Collegiate Athletic Association -- the
governing board of college athletics -- is investigating
Newton’s recruiting.  After hosting Georgia this week, Auburn finishes its
regular season on the road against the University of Alabama on
Nov. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  