-- Asian Currencies Weaken on Concern Policy Makers Will Seek to Curb Gains
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-11-10T09:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/asian-currencies-weaken-on-concern-policy-makers-will-seek-to-curb-gains.html
Asian currencies fell, led by
Singapore’s dollar and Thailand’s baht, on concern policy makers
will follow China and Taiwan in imposing capital controls to
curb inflows as the U.S. pumps funds into its economy.  China said yesterday it would force banks to hold more
foreign exchange, while Taiwan said it will limit overseas
investment in the island’s debt and money markets. Asian
economies may need to take measures as monetary easing in
the U.S. threatens to create asset bubbles, World Bank Managing
Director Sri Mulyani Indrawati said this week.  “There is worry in emerging economies that quantitative
easing will result in substantial hot-money inflows,” said
 Mitul Kotecha , head of global currency strategy at Credit
Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. “They see this as difficult to
control. With the run-up in asset prices, it is understandable
where this concern is coming from.”  Singapore’s dollar slipped 0.3 percent to S$1.2872 against
its U.S. counterpart as of 4:56 p.m. local time, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Thailand’s baht fell 0.2 percent to
29.58 and India’s rupee dropped 0.1 percent to 44.30.  Taiwan’s Financial Supervisory Commission said late
yesterday that global funds can only invest up to 30 percent of
their portfolio in the island’s bonds and money-market products.
South Korea needs to cool excessive foreign capital inflows into
the stock market to protect its financial system, the central
bank said Nov. 4.  Thailand Concerns  The Federation of Thai Industries asked the government to
come up with “tougher measures” to stem gains in the baht,
which strengthened to a 13-year high of 29.46 today.  “Business operators can’t adjust themselves because the
baht moves too excessively,” Payungsak Chartsutipol, the
group’s chairman, said in Bangkok today. “We want the
government to impose tougher measures, like taxes on short-term
inflows.”  Concerns that quantitative easing by the U.S. will lead to
a surge in capital flows to emerging markets have been overblown,
World Bank President Robert Zoellick said.  “Some of the concerns have been overstated,” Zoellick
said in a Bloomberg Television interview in Singapore today.
“Even if you didn’t have quantitative easing, as long as you
have differential growth rates you’re going to see capital flow
to these emerging markets.”  Asia’s developing economies will expand 9.4 percent in 2010,
outpacing the 2.7 percent pace in advanced countries, the
International Monetary Fund forecast on Oct. 6.  G-20 Meeting  South Korea’s won rose after overseas investors added to
holdings of the nation’s stocks and ahead of the Group of 20
meeting starting in Seoul tomorrow.  “Investors seem to be betting that the won will resume its
gain after the Group of 20 summit wraps up, and a stronger
currency is beneficial to foreign investors who hold South
Korean equities,” said Kim Young Joon, head of equity at NH-CA
Asset Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of $9
billion.  The currency gained 0.3 percent to 1,110.26 per dollar,
reversing a loss of as much as 0.5 percent, after the People’s
Bank of China set the yuan’s reference rate 0.2 percent stronger
at a record 6.6450. The spot rate climbed to 6.6330, the highest
level since 1993  China told some lenders, including  Bank of Communications
Co. , to increase their reserve ratios by half a percentage point,
a person with direct knowledge of the matter said. The increases
will be effective Nov. 15, said the person, who asked not to be
identified as the orders weren’t public. A press official at the
 People’s Bank of China  declined to comment. China today posted a
larger-than-estimated $27 billion trade surplus for October.  Elsewhere, Taiwan’s dollar rose 0.1 percent to NT$30.600
and Indonesia’s rupiah advanced 0.2 percent to 8,893. The
Philippine peso was little changed at 43.37.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 