-- Assurant Declines After American Banker Article Says Industry Has `Abuses'
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2010-11-10T17:48:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/assurant-declines-after-american-banker-article-says-industry-has-abuses-.html
Assurant Inc. , the insurer of
foreclosed properties, fell the most in 18 months after an
American Banker article cited “evidence of abuses” in the
market for so-called force-placed coverage.  Assurant dropped $3.94, or 9.8 percent, to $36.20 at 12:23
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Mortgage servicers are profiting at the expense of
homeowners and investors by taking payments from the insurers
they select to issue force-placed policies on properties where
distressed borrowers allow their original coverage to lapse,
American Banker said. The force-placed policies can cost 10
times as much as the coverage they replace, the newspaper said.  EverBank Financial Corp. received a $7,100 commission from
New York-based Assurant for contracting the insurer to issue
coverage on a borrower’s property, American Banker said. That’s
more than the bank would make servicing the loan, according to
the newspaper.  “Lender-placed insurance programs are regulated in all
states and we comply with those regulations,” the American
Banker article quotes Assurant as saying in a statement. “We
believe our rates to be among the lowest in the industry.”  Vera Carley, a spokeswoman for Assurant, had no immediate
comment when contacted by Bloomberg.  Borrowers get “several notices” before force-placed
coverage is issued, said Justine Navaja, a spokeswoman for
EverBank. She declined to comment on commissions.  Assurant competes with Bank of America Corp.,  Munich Re  and
Australia’s  QBE Insurance Group Ltd.  for sales of force-placed
coverage. The policies are riskier than typical home coverage
because the properties are more prone to neglect or vandalism.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  