-- Foreclosure Probe on `Fast Track,' Iowa AG Miller Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-11-10T15:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/attorneys-general-probe-on-fast-track-iowa-s-miller-says.html
The investigation by attorneys
general in 50 U.S. states into banks’ foreclosure practices is
on “a fast track” and any resolution might involve multiple
settlements, Iowa Attorney General  Tom Miller  said.  “We’d like to resolve this sooner rather than later,”
Miller, who is leading the attorneys general task force, said in
an interview. “We want to move quickly if we can, but not so
quickly that we don’t do it right.”  A global settlement of the task force investigation is
unlikely, said Miller, 66, who also leads a separate foreclosure
prevention group of state attorneys general. “It would be one
bank at a time.” Miller, who was first elected attorney general
in 1978 and whose successes include $809 million from two
earlier settlements over home loans, didn’t speculate on when or
how this investigation might be resolved.  All 50 states on Oct. 13 announced the coordinated inquiry
into whether banks and loan servicers used false documents and
signatures to justify hundreds of thousands of foreclosures. The
probe came after  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Ally Financial Inc. ’s
GMAC mortgage unit said they would stop repossessions in 23
states where courts supervise home seizures and  Bank of America
Corp.  froze foreclosures nationwide.  At least 19 states, including Iowa and Texas, are
conducting separate investigations to determine whether state
laws were broken. Some began investigations months before the
coordinated nationwide probe was announced.  Foreclosures, Lawsuit  States have asked lenders to halt foreclosures, requested
documents and sought better home-loan modification procedures.
Ohio’s attorney general sued, accusing Ally Financial of
consumer fraud.  Some lenders have acknowledged that employees may have
completed court affidavits without confirming their accuracy. In
December, a GMAC employee said in a deposition in a foreclosure
case in West Palm Beach, Florida, that his team of 13 people
signed about 10,000 documents a month without verifying the
accuracy of the information in them.  “One bank at a time is logical,” said  Bernard Nash , a
lawyer at Dickstein Shapiro LLP in Washington and head of the
firm’s practice group that represents corporations in dealings
with state legal officials. “Everyone has their own interest,
their own judgment on what a good deal is.”  ‘So Complicated’  Initial settlements with individual banks may be less than
comprehensive, resolving one or some issues at a time, said
Nash, who isn’t involved in the foreclosure matter. “The issues
they have to come to grips with are so complicated, this might
require piecemeal settlements.”  The attorneys general and their deputies on the 50-state
task force have begun talking to the banks, Miller said. They’ve
had one face-to-face meeting with a bank, he said. He declined
to disclose which bank.  Miller’s position as the leader of the 50-state group was a
“natural evolution” of his prior investigations into mortgage
and foreclosure practices, he said in the Nov. 8 phone
interview. “I was lead attorney general in the Household case,
lead attorney general in Ameriquest and in the state foreclosure
prevention group.”  In 2002, Household Finance agreed to pay $484 million to
consumers to settle a 50-state investigation over home loan
practices. Ameriquest Mortgage Co. reached a $325 million
settlement with the attorneys general in 2006 to resolve claims
the lender cheated customers by misrepresenting loan terms and
getting inflated appraisals.  Eighth Term  Miller, who spent four years in private practice at a law
firm in Des Moines in the 1990s, was elected to an eighth four-
year term as attorney general on Nov. 2.  Miller was born in Dubuque, Iowa, where his father was the
county assessor. After graduating from  Harvard Law School  in
1969, he served as a VISTA volunteer in the inner city of
Baltimore for two years. Volunteers in Service to America, a
federally financed anti-poverty organization, was often called
the domestic Peace Corps.  “It was entirely consistent with my goal of having a
career in public service,” he said. “It gave me a perspective
on low-income people and their struggles.”  Miller has focused on consumer protection while attorney
general. “The attorney general should use the law to forward
the interests of ordinary Iowans,” he said.  This is particularly necessary when protecting homeowners,
he said. “The home is more than just an economic asset.”  The ‘Dean’  Nash of Dickstein Shapiro calls Miller the “dean” of
attorneys general.  “He’s respected by both Democrats and Republicans,” Nash
said. “His judgment carries a lot of weight.”  When the number of foreclosures escalated in 2007, Miller’s
office set up a hotline, joining with the Iowa Mediation
Service, the Iowa Finance Authority and several nonprofit
groups, to help consumers keep their homes, he said. This helped
Iowa bring its foreclosure rate down to the sixth-lowest in the
U.S. from about 26th, he said.  Current foreclosure problems go deeper than “robosigning”
allegations and predate the recent disclosures, Miller said.
“We’ve been concerned about this for 3 1/2 years.”  When the “foreclosure avalanche” started in 2007, Miller
and other attorneys general formed the foreclosure prevention
working group, with more than 30 states involved. Members of the
13-state executive committee then began talking with servicers
to increase the number of loan modifications, he said.  ‘Culture Thing’  “When we first started talking to the servicers, the
problems were perceived to be that they weren’t putting enough
resources into this,” Miller said. “You need a lot more
resources to modify loans. It’s a culture thing. They were in
the business of collecting, not in the business of finding a
better deal” for consumers, he said.  “Servicers still have quite a ways to go,” he said.
“They haven’t staffed up enough. People still wait months.
Paperwork is lost.”  An agreement resolving the 50-state probe may address this
problem, Miller said. “Servicers would have to commit more
resources,” he said. The agreement would require that “they
would fully fund this.”  Improved loan modification procedures, including additional
modifications, might also be part of any agreement, he said.  California, New York  As part of its probe, the 50-state group established an
executive committee of top legal officers from 12 states,
including California, Iowa, New York, Illinois and Texas, and
the banking regulators of Maryland, New York and Pennsylvania.
Delaware Attorney General  Beau Biden  was later added to the
executive committee.  Most negotiations by the group will be conducted by the
executive committee or deputies within their offices. “The
members meet usually by phone,” Miller said. “It’s very
informal, somewhat ad hoc.”  The group won’t hold public hearings to question bank
executives or employees, he said.  Six of the attorneys general on the executive committee
will be leaving office.  Richard Blumenthal  of Connecticut was
elected to the U.S. Senate.  Jerry Brown  of California and  Andrew Cuomo  of New York were elected governor of their states last
week while Arizona’s  Terry Goddard  lost his bid for governor.
Ohio’s  Richard Cordray  was defeated for re-election. Florida’s
 Bill McCollum  also is leaving office.  “I don’t think there’ll be any substantial effect,”
Miller said. “We’re responsible public officials.”  New attorneys general will have the option to stay on the
executive committee. “The effort will go ahead,” he said.
“This is on a fast track.”  One primary goal, he said: “We have to figure out a way
this never happens again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 