-- Australia Open to Investment, Minister Says, Amid Woodside Bid Speculation
-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 2010-11-10T07:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/australia-open-to-investment-amid-woodside-bid-speculation.html
Australia is open to foreign
investment and any application to acquire a stake in  Woodside
Petroleum Ltd.  would be considered through the normal channels,
Resource Minister Martin Ferguson said.  Ferguson said his department would advise the Foreign
Investment Review Board should any bid be made for a stake in
Australia’s second-largest oil and gas producer.  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc  this week cut its stake in the Perth-based company,
prompting speculation it may become a takeover target.  “From a foreign investment point of view, we have an open
and non-discriminatory approach to these matters,” Ferguson
said in an interview in Canberra today. “If any company was to
seek to purchase shares in Woodside or any other Australian
company, that would be a matter to be determined in the normal
course and by the Treasurer and the Foreign Investment Review
Board process.”  Shell completed the sale of a 10 percent holding in
 Woodside  for about $3.3 billion, The Hague-based company said
yesterday. Europe’s largest oil company may eventually sell its
remaining 24.27 percent stake as it focuses on developing
Australian liquefied natural gas projects, analysts said.  Shell said it will keep its remaining Woodside holding for
at least one year, “with limited exceptions,” including a
potentiatakeover offerer for Woodside by another company.  Woodside, whose Chief Executive Officer  Don Voelte  plans to
retire in the second half of next year, may be an acquisition
target for BHP Billiton Ltd., UBS AG analysts said Nov. 4. BHP,
the world’s largest mining company and Australia’s biggest oil
and gas producer, has room for acquisitions after Canada blocked
its $40 billion offer for  Potash Corp.  of Saskatchewan Inc.  ‘More Mature’  Shell’s first involvement with Woodside was in 1963 when it
joined forces to explore for oil and gas off the remote
northwest coast of Australia. In 1985 it raised its stake in
Woodside from 21.34 percent to 40.04 percent before cutting back
the stake to 34.27 percent in 1994. Shell tried to take over
Woodside in 2000 and was blocked by the Australian government.  “It is a far more mature industry than it was 10 or 12
years ago,” Ferguson said. “In terms of the petroleum sector
in Australia, we are fortunate we have a huge pipeline of
investments at the moment.”  Laws on the government’s planned 30 percent tax on iron ore
and coal profits will be released next May following a report
from a committee chaired by former  BHP  Chairman  Don Argus ,
Ferguson said. They would be introduced to parliament in the
second half of 2011 to take effect in 2012, he said.  Mining companies and the government were still discussing
how state royalties would be treated under the laws, Ferguson
said. A stronger Australian dollar, which has gained almost 12
percent this year against the U.S. currency, cut A$3.1 billion
($3.1 billion) from projected income from the planned tax,
according to treasury figures released yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  