-- Australian Home-Loan Approvals Rose in September Before RBA Raised Rates
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-11-10T01:11:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/australian-home-loan-approvals-rose-1-3-in-september-update1-.html
Australian  home-loan approvals 
climbed in September, capping the strongest quarter since the
first three months of 2009, before the central bank resumed
raising interest rates to control inflation.  The number of loans granted to build or buy houses and
apartments gained 1.3 percent to 48,333 from August, when they
rose a revised 1.1 percent, the statistics bureau said in Sydney
today. That was the third straight monthly advance and was
higher than the  median estimate  for a 1 percent rise in a
Bloomberg News survey of 19 economists.  A recovery in demand for home loans, which tumbled for
seven straight months through April as the Reserve Bank of
Australia embarked on the most aggressive round of rate
increases by a Group of 20 member, may bolster economic growth.
Governor  Glenn Stevens  last week ended a five-month rate pause,
boosting borrowing costs by a quarter point to 4.75 percent.  “Additional official rate hikes next year suggest house
prices are likely to move sideways over the coming 12 months and
the incentive to rush into the market will be considerably
reduced,” said  Paul Braddick , head of property research and
financial system analysis at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. in Melbourne. “Consequently, we expect growth in
housing credit to fall to multi-decade lows in the year ahead.”  The total value of loans rose 1 percent to A$20.4 billion
($20.5 billion) in September, today’s report showed.  Investment Purchases  The value of lending to owner-occupiers gained 0.6 percent,
the report showed. The value of loans to investors who plan to
rent or resell homes advanced 1.7 percent.  First-home buyers accounted for 15.9 percent of dwellings
that were financed in September, up from 15.5 percent in August
and lower than 26.1 percent a year earlier, the statistics
bureau said today.  In a quarterly report released last week, the Reserve Bank
of Australia said there has been “a welcome cooling in the
housing market” and the “appetite for new debt also remains
more subdued.”  Today’s report follows statements by the International
Monetary Fund that Australian home prices may be overvalued by
as much as 15 percent.  Gerard Minack , Sydney-based global
developed markets strategist at Morgan Stanley, has predicted
prices are overvalued by about 40 percent.  The earlier drop in borrowing accelerated after the start
of last year’s fourth quarter as the government began reducing
A$21,000 grants to first-time buyers of newly built dwellings.
Those grants were lowered in two steps to A$7,000 by Jan. 1.  Earlier today, a private report showed Australian consumer
confidence declined in November to a five-month low after the
central bank’s rate increase. The sentiment index fell 5.3
percent to 110.7 this month, according to a Westpac Banking Corp.
and Melbourne Institute survey of 1,200 consumers conducted Nov.
1-7 and released today in Sydney.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  