-- Aviva Gets It Right on Corporate Bonds, Predicts More Gains: Canada Credit
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2010-11-10T18:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/aviva-gets-it-right-on-corporate-bonds-predicts-more-gains-canada-credit.html
Doug MacDonald , president of  Aviva
Investors Canada Inc. , got it right in July when he forecast
corporate bonds would outperform government debt. He expects
more of the same trend as earnings rebound.  Canada’s corporate yield spreads have been slower to narrow
than their U.S. and global counterparts, meaning the country’s
bonds may have more room to rally, he said. Earnings per share
on Canada’s benchmark Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index will
rise 39 percent over 12 months, versus 20 percent on the S&P 500
Index, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Even though yields on every bond instrument have come
down, corporate yields still on a relative basis offer the best
value,“ MacDonald , who oversees about C$6 billion ($6 billion),
said by phone from Toronto. “They are a little less interest-
rate sensitive, they offer additional yield and corporations,
despite a poor recovery, are actually in good shape.”  Aviva Investors Canada is “overweight” Canadian financial
companies such as Royal Bank of Canada and Great-West Lifeco
Inc., and favors tier one and tier two capital bonds. Aviva also
invests in maple bonds -- debt sold by foreign companies in
Canadian dollars -- and asset-backed securities.  The extra yield investors demand to own Canadian corporate
rather than federal government debt stood at 138 basis points
yesterday, down from 154 basis points in June, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch data. The average spread over the last
10 years is about 114 basis points.  Corporate bonds have returned 2.7 percent since June 30,
compared with a 1.7 percent gain for government debt, according
to Bank of America Merrill indexes. MacDonald said in July he
expected corporate bonds to outperform as default rates decline.  Lumps  “Banking probably represents pretty good value in that
most of the bad news within the bank space is already out
there,” he said. “They have taken their lumps, and I think
from a credit perspective Canadian banks are only going to
improve from here.”  Insurance companies are less attractive than banks because
falling interest rates have hurt annuities, said MacDonald, who
joined Aviva in September last year. Nonetheless,  Great-West
Lifeco , the country’s second-biggest insurer, was the  Canadian
Core Fixed Income  fund’s largest holding at 3.45 percent at
Sept. 30.  Elsewhere in credit markets, relative yields on Canada’s
provincial bonds over their federal counterparts were unchanged
at 52 basis points yesterday from the day before, according to
the Bank of America Merrill data. Provincial spreads have been
as wide this year as 71 basis points in May.  Canadian Currency  Provincial spreads have rallied “quite substantially”
over the past six months to attain “reasonable value,”
MacDonald said. “From a credit perspective they are still
challenged, Ontario in particular, because the nature of the
economy here is very export sensitive.”  The strength of the Canadian currency, which traded at
parity with the U.S. dollar yesterday, compared with an average
during the past 20 years of about C$1.30, makes it harder for
exporters to find buyers for their products, MacDonald said.  Canada’s  trade deficit  widened in September, almost
matching a record set two months earlier, as exports to the U.S.
fell and imports reached the highest level in almost two years.
Ottawa-based Statistics Canada said today the deficit widened to
C$2.49 billion, while raising its estimate for the August gap to
C$1.49 billion from an initial report of C$1.34 billion.  Yields on Bank of America Merrill’s provincial bond index,
which tracks 397 issues with a par value of C$464 billion, rose
yesterday to 3.11 percent, from 3.04 percent the day before. The
index is headed for an 8.4 percent gain this year, which would
be the strongest performance since 2002.  Five-Year Bond  The yield on Canada’s five-year bond rose 1 basis point
today to 2.20 percent, the highest since Sept. 20. The yield had
been as high this year as 3.24 percent in April. The price of
the 3 percent security due in December 2015 fell 6 cents to
C$103.80.  Canada today sold C$3 billion of two-year notes, drawing an
average yield of 1.556 percent. The government received bids of
C$7.4 billion for the 1.5 percent securities maturing in
December 2012, according to a statement on the Bank of Canada
website.  Financement Quebec, which seeks loans on behalf of schools,
universities and hospitals, reoffered C$100 million of its bonds
due in June 2016, with a floating-rate coupon set quarterly at
27 basis points greater than the Canadian Dealer Offered Rate
known as CDOR. The issue has C$1.38 billion outstanding.  Benchmark Rate  Altalink LP sold C$150 million in 4.87 percent bonds
maturing in November 2040 at a spread of 132 basis points over
government debt.  Aviva Investors Canada’s C$167 million  Canadian Core Fixed
Income  portfolio, with holdings that include Morgan Stanley,
returned 8.69 percent in the 12 months through Sept. 30, versus
a return of 7.33 percent in the benchmark Dex Universe Bond
Index.  The Bank of Canada will probably keep its benchmark
interest rate unchanged at 1 percent for the next three quarters
as it appraises the effect of renewed quantitative easing in the
U.S. and economic cooling in Canada, MacDonald said.  “A couple of things have changed in the last month or so
in Canada,” said MacDonald. “The labor market has slowed a
little bit, the housing market looks like it’s pausing. The last
piece of the puzzle is a strong dollar.”  Canada had a “short, sharp recession” and is now alone in
the Group of Seven nations in restoring employment and output to
“pre-crisis levels,”  Mark Carney , governor of the country’s
central bank, said in a speech yesterday.  Upgrades  S&P has raised its debt ratings on 55 Canadian companies
this year and cut 27. The 2.04 ratio of upgrades to downgrades
compares with 0.34 in 2009 and is the highest in at least a
decade, according to Bloomberg data.  MacDonald, 43, a chartered financial analyst, has held jobs
at KBSH Capital Management and ING Investment Management. He has
finance degrees from McMaster University and York University.  He praised Carney for his efforts during the economic
crisis that have attracted investors, and more recently for not
raising interest rates again after three increases this year.  “He wasn’t stubborn enough to maintain that program with
evidence inflation is subsiding,” MacDonald said. “You have to
give him full marks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .
 Colin McClelland  in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net  