-- AWB Posts Full-Year Loss on Charges for Loan Book Sale, Court Settlement
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-11-10T05:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/awb-posts-full-year-loss-on-charges-for-loan-book-sale-court-settlement.html
AWB Ltd. , which has recommended a
A$1.2 billion ($1.2 billion) takeover bid by Agrium Inc., had a
full-year loss because of one-time charges from the sale of its
financial services loan books and a class action settlement.  The unaudited net loss was A$54.9 million for the year
ended Sept. 30 compared with a loss of A$250.8 million a year
earlier, the Melbourne-based company said today in a statement.  AWB, Australia’s largest wheat exporter, will next week
hold a shareholder vote on the A$1.50 a share cash bid by
Calgary-based  Agrium . The acquisition will allow the Canadian
company to broaden sales of farm products such as fertilizers
through AWB’s rural services retail network amid rising demand
for agricultural commodities.  “Going forward, the grain marketing business will
participate in the long-term growth in global demand for soft
commodities from Australia and has strengthened its grain
acquisition capability,” AWB Managing Director  Gordon Davis 
said in a statement.  AWB shares were unchanged at A$1.49 at the 4:10 p.m. close
in Sydney of the Australian Stock Exchange.  The loss included a pretax charge of A$69.8 million for the
sale of the Landmark loan and deposit business and a A$39.5
million pretax charge to settle a  class action  in relation to
AWB’s participation in the United Nations’ Oil-for-Food program
for Iraq.  AWB was among 2,200 firms that made illegal payments to win
contracts from Saddam Hussein’s regime under the UN program,
according to a 2005 inquiry led by ex-U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Paul Volcker .  Earnings before interest and tax from the Australian
commodity management business dropped 40 percent to A$40 million
on reduced grain marketing margins, the company said.  The rural services business, which includes fertilizer
retailing, livestock marketing and wool selling, posted a 53
percent rise in profit to A$61.4 million, according to the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 Jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 