-- Mexicana Unions Get $155 Million Bid to Save Company
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2010-11-10T15:44:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/bankrupt-mexicana-airline-may-restart-flights-in-december-official-says.html
Grupo Mexicana de Aviacion SA may
return to the skies in December if unions and other creditors
accept a 1.9 billion-peso ($155 million) proposal to rescue the
bankrupt airline, a government official said.  PC Capital SAPI, a Mexican private-equity firm, is offering
the unions 975 million pesos in cash and would arrange a seven-
year, 926 million-peso loan paying monthly interest to the
workers,  Humberto Trevino , deputy minister of transportation,
said yesterday. The unions would get an equity stake in exchange
for the remaining 2.85 billion pesos Mexicana owes them, he
said.  Mexicana, the nation’s largest carrier before its August
bankruptcy and shutdown, would return with 28 planes, flying 17
international routes to the U.S. and Central America and seven
domestic services, Trevino said in a telephone interview.
Creditors including  Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB  and Mexican
development bank Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior SNC view
the proposal favorably, as does the government, he said.  “The unions would be getting compensation more than double
what they would receive if Mexicana were to be liquidated,”
Trevino said.  PC Capital , led by managing directors Pablo Coballasi and
Pablo Cervantes, would retain 35 percent of Mexicana’s pre-
bankruptcy workforce, Trevino said. Executives at PC Capital
declined to comment, a receptionist said by telephone today.  Arbitration  PC Capital will decide by this week whether to confirm its
offer to the government after completing its due diligence,
Mexicana said today in a statement.  Arturo Barahona , the former
chief executive officer of Grupo Aeromexico SA, now Mexico’s
biggest airline, has represented PC Capital in the talks,
Mexicana said.  In Mexicana’s bankruptcy proceeding in Mexico, the
government-appointed arbitrator will seek to broker an agreement
between PC Capital and the creditors, Trevino said. After a list
of creditors is approved later this month, the parties might
reach an accord in “a couple of days,” after which Mexicana
would begin the marketing and logistical work to resume flying.
The airline would start with a few routes, Trevino said.  Mexicana’s Cia. Mexicana de Aviacion unit filed for
bankruptcy protection in Mexico in August and sought Chapter 15
protection in the U.S. The Chapter 15 petition in New York
listed more than $500 million in assets and $1 billion in debt.
About 1.57 billion pesos was held by Banorte unit Banco
Mercantil Del Norte, according to court papers. Mexicana
grounded flight operations Aug. 28.  The U.S. case is Compania Mexicana De Aviacion SA de CV,
10-14182; U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Crayton Harrison  in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  