-- BankAtlantic Executives Lied About Riskiness of Loans, Lawyer Tells Jurors
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 2010-11-10T21:10:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/bankatlantic-executives-lied-about-riskiness-of-loans-lawyer-tells-jurors.html
BankAtlantic Bancorp Inc.  executives
duped investors into buying the bank’s shares at an inflated
price by lying about the riskiness of its real-estate-loan
portfolio during 2007’s economic downturn, a lawyer told jurors.  Officials of the Fort Lauderdale, Florida-based bank
ignored lending guidelines in approving land-development loans
and then sought to hide the losses to prop up the institution’s
stock price,  Mark Arisohn , a lawyer representing disgruntled
BankAtlantic shareholders, said in closing arguments today in
the trial of investors’ securities-fraud lawsuit.  “When the truth was revealed and hidden risk materialized,
the stock plunged,” Arisohn told jurors in federal court in
Miami. “Investors who put their hard-earned money into
BankAtlantic stock were misled by those lies.”  BankAtlantic, which last reported a profit in the second
quarter of 2007, traded at more than $44 in January 2005. The
bank suffered a string of losses in the wake of an economic
downturn triggered by the collapse of the U.S. subprime-mortgage
market in 2007. The  shares  fell 4 cents to 91 cents at 3:37 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  BankAtlantic’s defense attorney countered today that
executives didn’t foresee the collapse of Florida’s real-estate
market in the fallout over subprime mortgages and alerted
investors to problems within the bank’s loan portfolio when they
became clear.  Economic ‘Tsunami’  Bank officials “didn’t anticipate the tsunami of economic
collapse that hit this state,”  Eugene Stearns , BankAtlantic’s
lawyer, told the panel. “They didn’t anticipate the cliff this
market fell off.”  Jurors, who have heard five weeks’ worth of testimony and
argument, must consider whether 19 statements made by
BankAtlantic Chief Executive Officer  Alan Levan  and other
officials in conference calls and press releases misrepresented
or omitted crucial facts. The statements were made over the
period of a year starting in October 2006, according to court
filings.  Before the trial, U.S. District Judge  Ursula Ungaro  found
four statements Levan made during a 2007 conference call with
investors false or misleading. Still, the judge will allow
jurors to decide if the statements amounted to a violation of
securities laws.  Damage Reduction  In one of the statements, Levan noted that BankAtlantic’s
loan portfolio “has always performed extremely well, continues
to perform extremely well,” according to court filings.  At the beginning of the trial, Arisohn told jurors
investors who relied on statements by Levan and other
BankAtlantic officials were seeking damages of $3.52 a share.
They refused to provide a total amount of damages sought.  Ungaro ruled that testimony during the trial indicated
investors’ damages should be limited to no more than $3.30 a
share if jurors find for shareholders.  The case is In re BankAtlantic Bancorp Inc. Securities
Litigation, 07-cv-61542, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of Florida (Miami).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
 Susannah Nesmith  in Miami at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 