-- King Sees Equal Chance of 2% Inflation in `Vigorous' BOE Debate
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-11-10T12:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/bank-of-england-says-inflation-likely-to-drop-toward-2-within-two-years.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
said the recovery will persist and predicted an equal chance
that inflation will exceed or undershoot the 2 percent target as
officials grow more divided on the economic outlook.  “There is, as you would expect and should want, a vigorous
debate between members, and a range of views that is wider than
usual, about the weight to attach to those different risks,”
King told reporters in London today. He presented the bank’s
quarterly predictions, where it raised its forecast for
inflation in 2011.  The Bank of England last week kept its  bond-purchase plan 
unchanged at 200 billion pounds ($322 billion) after Britain’s
economy grew twice as fast as predicted in the third quarter.
The forecasts today suggested the recovery can weather the
government’s  budget squeeze , which is set to inflict almost half
a million job cuts on the economy.  “The U.K. recovery is expected to continue, supported by
expansionary monetary policy, further growth in global demand
and the past depreciation of sterling,” the bank said. “The
chances of inflation being either above or below the target by
the end of the forecast period are judged to be roughly equal.”  Growth will exceed its historical average “for much of the
forecast period,” King said.  The pound rose 0.7 percent against the dollar after the
release of the inflation report and traded at $1.6084 as of
12:30 a.m. in London. The yield on the benchmark two-year
government bond was up 7 basis points today at 0.763 percent.  Inflation Forecast  The bank sees  inflation  at about 1.5 percent at the end of
2012, based on a chart of projections in the report. Gross-
domestic-product growth is seen at about 3.2 percent, according
to the projections, based on market interest-rate expectations.
The bank said its near-term inflation forecast is higher than in
August and that consumer-price growth will exceed the goal
through 2011.  “There are significant uncertainties around the outlook
for inflation,” the bank said. “The near term overshoot of the
target may be more pronounced, particularly if there is
continued strength in commodity-price inflation.”  The central bank also said it “stood ready to respond in
either direction as the balance of risks evolved.”  The report “does diminish the probability of quantitative
easing resuming in February,”  Neville Hill , an economist at
Credit Suisse Group in London and a former U.K. Treasury
official, said in a telephone interview. “I wouldn’t say
they’ve closed the door, but they are less open than in
August.”  Inflation Letter  Inflation was 3.1 percent in September, exceeding the
government’s 3 percent limit for a seventh month. King has
written three letters this year to Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  to explain the inflation rate and there is a
“high probability” he will have to write another, the bank
said today.  On growth, the central bank said “four-quarter growth is a
little more likely to be above its historical average than below
it for much of forecast period.”  “Despite the significant fiscal consolidation that is now
under way, the recovery in output is likely to be maintained,”
it said. “But the strength of the recovery remains highly
uncertain.”  A three-way split has emerged on the central bank’s
Monetary Policy Committee, with  Andrew Sentance  maintaining a
campaign he began in June for higher interest rates to control
inflation, and  Adam Posen  arguing for more bond purchases to
support the recovery. Minutes of this month’s decision will be
published on Nov. 17.  Fed Decision  While the Bank of England last week kept its policy
unchanged, the U.S. Federal Reserve announced a second round of
large-scale asset purchases, pledging to buy an additional $600
billion of Treasuries through June to head off the risk of
deflation.  King today noted the importance of the global economy, and
especially the euro area, for the U.K. economic outlook.  “Whether that recovery will be sustained depends heavily
on developments in the rest of the world, as domestic spending,
especially by the public sector, is likely to grow more slowly
looking ahead,” he said. “Given the scale of the fall during
the recession, the level of output is likely to remain weak.”  King said the “biggest risks” faced by the U.K. were in
the external environment.  ‘Out of Our Hands’  “If there were further major downside movements in the
world economy, we would not be immune to that and that would be
a problem,” he said. “The biggest conjectural risk that we
face is bad news on the world economy and in particular the euro
area. That’s out of our hands.”  Britain’s recovery is showing some signs of momentum.
 Gross domestic product  rose 0.8 percent in the third quarter,
twice the pace forecast by economists, and surveys this month
showed manufacturing and services growth accelerated in October.
The statistics office said yesterday that manufacturing
production expanded for a fifth month in September to reach the
strongest level in almost two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  