-- Bank of America Sues Loan Insurer Over Mortgage Default Claims Denial
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-11-10T20:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/bank-of-america-sues-old-republic-saying-claims-were-denied.html
A unit of  Bank of America Corp. , the
largest U.S. lender, sued Old Republic Insurance Co., accusing
the mortgage-insurance carrier of denying “hundreds of millions
of dollars” in valid claims.  Bank of America NA’s suit, filed Nov. 3 in federal court in
Charlotte, North Carolina, seeks more than $160 million in
damages. The company said in its complaint that Old Republic is
trying “to run from coverage” after loan defaults increased
during the recession.  The bank, based in Charlotte, is the largest U.S. home-loan
servicer and the second-biggest loan originator after San
Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co.  Bank of America, which is
handling about 1.3 million loans in which payments are at least
60 days late, acquired mortgage lender Countrywide Financial
Corp. in 2008.  Spencer LeRoy , general counsel for Chicago-based Old
Republic International Corp., the insurer’s parent company,
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment. The suit was
reported earlier today by the Charlotte Observer.  Attorneys general in all 50 U.S. states are investigating
foreclosure practices at Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and other lenders after they halted some foreclosures after
questions arose about the validity of the supporting paperwork.  Bank of America only got insurance for some of the loans it
originated, and Old Republic aided in the selection of which
loans would be insured, according to the complaint.  The lender alleges breach of contract and bad faith and
asked for a court order directing Old Republic to honor all
adjusted claims within 30 days of its receipt of “satisfactory
evidence of loss.”  The case is Bank of America N.A. v. Old Republic Insurance
Co., 10cv553, U.S. District Court, Western District of North
Carolina (Charlotte).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 