-- Bernanke Is Panned by Palin, Cheered by Faux Fed: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2010-11-10T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/bernanke-panned-by-palin-cheered-by-faux-fed-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke 
is taking flak from international policy types for his latest
foray into quantitative easing. He had to defend his actions to
economists and former policy makers at a Jekyll Island, Georgia,
conference last week. He even had to submit to a “cease and
desist” order from Mama Grizzly Fed Watcher extraordinaire,
 Sarah Palin .  There’s one group that’s sticking with him: the next
generation of would-be central bankers.  College students playing Fed at the annual “Fed
Challenge” Monday in New York were much more willing to give
Bernanke the benefit of the doubt. With the benchmark  overnight
rate  at the “zero-bound” for almost two years -- the faux Fed
strives to sound like the real Fed --  unemployment  too high and
inflation too low, the Fed had few options other than buying
more Treasuries to bring down long-term rates, the students
generally agreed.  “This is just monetary policy,” Bernanke said at the
Jekyll Island gathering in an attempt to dispel the notion that
QE2 was some “strange kind of thing,” the outcome of which was
unpredictable.  It’s not the unpredictability that upsets the critics,
including the late  Milton Friedman  as channeled by Fed historian
 Allan Meltzer  in a Nov. 4 Wall Street Journal  op-ed . (The
Journal’s  David Wessel  got a  different take .) It’s just the
opposite. Printing money eventually leads to higher inflation.  With history offering up ample evidence, it’s treacherous
for the Fed to set out to raise  inflation expectations  on the
loopy notion it can increase that component of nominal long-term
rates while holding everything else constant. More likely,
nominal long rates will rise in sync with  real rates .  Consolation Prize  If it’s any consolation, none of the six teams that
presented their economic outlook, risk analysis and policy
recommendations to me and three other judges Monday did any
better than the real Fed explaining the viability of this
strategy.  Nor did they score points for their response to my question
about the channels through which monetary policy operates. What
happens, I asked, if long rates don’t fall, if a strengthening
economy and expectations for a shorter “extended period” of
zero percent short-term rates pushes long rates in the opposite
direction? (Answer: It works through the quantity of  bank
reserves  and faster money supply growth.)  That’s what happened in 2009, “an awful time to own
Treasuries” even though the Fed purchased $300 billion of them
between April and October as part of QE1, said  Jim Bianco ,
president of Bianco Research in Chicago.  ‘What If’ Happened  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose from a low of 2
percent at the end of 2008 to 3.84 percent at the end of 2009.
The total return for the year was -9.71 percent, according to
Bianco. The 30-year bond delivered a -26 percent return to
investors, its worst year ever, according to Bianco, who has
data on railroad bonds going back to 1871.  The good news for the economy was that yields on other debt
instruments moved in the opposite direction, an infrequent
occurrence. Corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities and
high-yield debt delivered positive returns of 19.76 percent,
5.87 percent and 57.5 percent, respectively, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The Fed can hope this divergence between Treasuries and
other debt securities repeats itself, but I wouldn’t count on it
given the record low yields at which corporations are borrowing.  Besides, if a healthier banking system is the means to the
end of more business lending, a flatter yield curve is
counterproductive to bank profits.  Playing Fed  The New York Fed is one of five district banks
participating in this year’s  Fed Challenge . Thirty-six teams of
three to five undergraduates from colleges in New York, New
Jersey and southern Connecticut participated in Monday’s
competition.  One team in my group came in character, with one student
playing Ben Bernanke and the others posing as Fed presidents
known to be less enthusiastic about the benefits or advisability
of QE2.  Another team included outside advisers to the Fed in the
form of Stanford’s  John Taylor  and former Fed chief  Paul Volcker . Volcker’s stand-in lacked his signature cigar but was,
not surprisingly, an inflation hawk. The Taylor surrogate used
the “Taylor Rule,” a model that uses the difference between
actual and potential output and between actual and target
inflation to generate the appropriate funds rate, to show that
the funds rate was too low from 2002 to 2005, and his own
modified Taylor Rule to suggest the funds rate is too low now.  Least Bad Option  Suggesting “a rule-based policy after announcing QE2 would
not be appropriate,” Team 2 concluded.  Alan Greenspan  showed up at the Fed Challenge -- in spirit.
Team 1 referred to the financial crisis as a “once in a 100-
year storm,” a favorite claim of the maestro who navigated us
through a minimum of three in his 18-year tenure as Fed
chairman.  I sensed Greenspan’s presence in Bernanke’s rationale for
QE2 as well. If the Great Depression was the Fed’s fault -- it
was, according to Friedman and economist  Anna Schwartz -- Bernanke  wants to ensure it doesn’t happen again. Toward that
end, he seems to be adopting Greenspan’s risk-management
approach. (Or is it risky management?)  In a nutshell, the consequences of doing nothing and being
wrong are worse than those of doing something and being wrong.
It’s the least bad option.  On that the faux Fed and real Fed seem to agree.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Click on “Send Comment” in sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  