-- Bharti Airtel Second-Quarter Declines 27%, Misses Estimates, on Price Cuts
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2010-11-10T12:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/bharti-airtel-second-quarter-profit-16-6-billion-rupees-misses-estimates.html
Bharti Airtel Ltd. , India’s largest
mobile-phone operator, reported profit fell 27 percent after the
company cut call rates to win a larger share of the market in
Africa and compete with 14 other companies in India.  Second-quarter  net income  dropped to 16.6 billion rupees
($374 million) in the three months ended Sept. 30 from 22.6
billion rupees a year earlier, New Delhi-based Bharti said today.
That lagged behind the 17.8 billion rupee average of 27 analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Intensifying competition with  Vodafone Group Plc  and
 Reliance Communications Ltd.  drove Bharti’s monthly phone bills
in India down 20 percent in the quarter. Chairman  Sunil Mittal 
has expanded the company into countries including Kenya and cut
call rates to win customers after the $9 billion purchase of
African assets from Kuwait’s  Mobile Telecommunications Co.   “In Africa, the turnaround is going to take a while,”
said  Naveen Kulkarni , an analyst at MF Global Ltd. in Mumbai.
“It will take at least two to three quarters for them to get a
foothold there, and to maintain margins.”  Bharti fell 2.2 percent to 327.05 rupees at the 3:30 p.m.
close of trading in Mumbai, compared to a 0.3 decline in the
benchmark Sensitive Index, or  Sensex . The stock has retreated
almost 1 percent this year, compared with the Sensex’s 20
percent climb.  African Expansion  “We’ve modified our tariffs in 10 markets of 16,”  Manoj Kohli , chief executive officer of Bharti’s Africa business, said
today at a press briefing. “In some markets, we had an
unsustainable premium of 30 to 40 percent.”  Zain Kenya, a unit of Bharti, on Aug. 18 cut domestic call
rates in half to 3 shillings (4 cents) a minute.  Bharti plans to invest in expanding new businesses in
Nigeria, Gabon, Zambia, Malawi, Niger and Uganda after the
company completed its purchase of the African assets of Zain.
The company will invest $1.2 billion in the six countries over
the next three years, Kohli said in July.  Bharti announced it completed its purchase of the African
assets of Zain, as Mobile Telecommunications is known, on June 8.
The acquisition gave the company 42 million new subscribers and
access to a population of about 450 million across 15 African
countries including Ghana and Uganda.  Bharti also said Aug. 11 it would acquire Telecom
Seychelles Ltd. for an enterprise value of $62 million.  India Price War  Japan’s NTT DoCoMo Inc. and Norway’s Telenor ASA triggered
a price war last year when they entered India with cut-rate
plans to win a larger share of a market that is forecast by
researcher  Gartner Inc.  to exceed 993 million users by the end
of 2014. India had 671 million mobile-phone accounts in August,
according to the phone regulator, lagging behind only China.  Bharti had 195 million subscribers across 19 countries as
of Sept. 30, according to today’s statement.  Sales  rose 47 percent to 152.2 billion rupees. Earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda,
rose 19 percent to 51.2 billion rupees.  Bharti’s Africa operations contributed 26 percent of its
revenue in the second quarter, up from 8 percent in the quarter
ended June 30. The Ebitda margin for its African business fell
to 23.9 percent from 27.5 percent the previous quarter.  “The margins in Africa are still low,” Kohli said. “By
the time we reach the next fiscal year we will see
improvements.”  3G Services  Bharti’s average revenue per user, a key measure of
performance in the telecommunications industry, plunged 20
percent in India to 202 rupees a month. That’s lower than
Bharti’s average phone bill from its Africa operations.  Average revenue per user in Africa fell 1 percent from the
previous quarter to $7.40.  Bharti is rolling out a third-generation wireless network
in India this year that will allow it to begin providing faster
data services on smartphones. The company paid the government
123 billion rupees for permits in 13 of India’s 22
telecommunication zones, and 33 billion rupees in June for
licenses to offer wireless broadband service in four regions.  The company also paid $300 million in January for a 70
percent stake in Abu Dhabi-based Warid Telecom Group’s
Bangladesh operations and plans to invest $200 million in the
next five years in its mobile operations in Sri Lanka.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ketaki Gokhale  in Mumbai 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  