-- BJ's Wholesale Said to Seek Takeover, Hire Morgan Stanley
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 2010-11-10T21:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/bj-s-wholesale-club-said-to-plan-auction-after-receiving-leonard-green-bid.html
BJ’s Wholesale Club Inc.  plans to
run an auction to sell itself after receiving an offer from
private-equity firm Leonard Green & Partners LP in recent
months, said three people with knowledge of the situation.  BJ’s hired  Morgan Stanley  to help sell the company, said
two people, who declined to be identified because the matter is
private. Morgan Stanley will also offer to provide financing to
potential buyers, or so-called staple financing.  Any deal would likely be with private-equity funds and not
another retailer, said the people. BJ’s  cash  more than doubled
to $85 million in the second quarter ended July 31 and its long-
term debt shrank by three-fourths, making it attractive for a
takeover, according to  Joe Feldman , an analyst at Telsey
Advisory Group in New York. Sales growth has trailed that of
Costco Wholesale Corp.  “Month to month, BJ’s has been underperforming,” Feldman
said today. “It seems like a good candidate for a going-private
transaction.”  BJ’s climbed $5.31, or 13 percent, to $47.34 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the highest level
since February 2002. The company, led by Chief Executive Officer
 Laura Sen , has a market value of about $2.6 billion, ranking it
as the  third-largest U.S. wholesale chain  behind Costco and Wal-
Mart Stores Inc.’s Sam’s Club.  Cathy Maloney, a spokeswoman for BJ’s, and a spokeswoman
for Morgan Stanley declined to comment.  Trailing Sales  Comparable-store sales at BJ’s excluding gasoline rose 2.2
percent in October, trailing Costco’s gain of 5 percent. In the
most recent quarter, sales at BJ’s stores open at least 13
months rose 2.9 percent, compared with 4 percent at Costco and 1
percent at Sam’s. Wal-Mart doesn’t report monthly sales.  A buyout may be valued at as much as $2.75 billion, based
on the average premium of 20 percent for 11 acquisitions in the
U.S. retail-discount stores segment in the past five years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The transaction would
be the biggest in the sector since 2007, when KKR & Co. paid
$7.3 billion, including net debt, for Dollar General Corp.  BJ’s had been using boutique investment bank  Greenhill &
Co.  to explore its options, the people said, following the July
announcement that Los Angeles-based Leonard Green had taken a
9.5 percent stake in the company.  The company recently interviewed a number of large Wall
Street banks, including Goldman Sachs Group Inc., to help the
retailer sell itself, one person said. The Natick,
Massachusetts-based retailer determined it needed a larger bank,
with a balance sheet like New York-based Morgan Stanley, to fund
any sale of the business, the people said.  Leonard Green Holdings  Leonard Green & Partners, which manages about $9 billion,
has holdings in such retailers as  Whole Foods Market Inc. , the
largest U.S. natural-goods grocer, Petco Animal Supplies Inc.
and fitness club operator Equinox, according to its website.  The Los Angeles-based buyout firm, founded in 1989, offered
to acquire MGM Resorts International’s stake in Atlantic City’s
Borgata Hotel Casino & Spa, people with knowledge of the bid
said last month. Authentic Brands Group LLC, another Leonard
Green holding, agreed in September to buy TapouT and other
clothing brands associated with the mixed-martial arts network
Ultimate Fighting Championship.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Keehner  in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 