-- BNP, Credit Agricole Face Ex-Traders in Replay of SocGen's Kerviel Trial
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-10T17:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/bnp-credit-agricole-face-ex-traders-in-replay-of-socgen-s-kerviel-trial.html
BNP Paribas SA  and  Groupe Credit
Agricole  are confronting three former bond traders at a Paris
criminal trial on claims the men orchestrated deals in the 1990s
to inflate bond prices and pocket the profits.  The traders, who worked for what are now units of the
banks, are accused by Paris prosecutors of abuse of trust and
fraud after a nearly 12-year probe found as much as 200 million
French francs ($34 million) was siphoned into overseas funds for
their use.  An investigation found the men “deliberately hid what was
being done from superiors,” Judge Agnes Quantin said in opening
the four-day trial Nov. 8.  The trial spotlights the practices of bond traders a decade
before  Jerome Kerviel ’s unauthorized derivatives trading cost
France’s second-largest bank,  Societe Generale SA , 4.9 billion
euros. Testimony at times echoed Kerviel’s June trial, with two
traders asserting they followed “normal” practices while the
banks said they had no idea what was happening.  “Mr. Kerviel was just one man,” Claude Bendel, a lawyer
for the Credit Agricole units, said today. While the affairs are
“very closely related,” he said, “here we are in the presence
of a gang -- no one acted alone.”  Defendants  Ariel Cheminaud , 46, Noureddine Benameur, 49,
and Olivier Moulines, 49, deny the charges, and claim they never
collaborated or benefitted on the trades. The men face as much
as 375,000 euros in fines and five years in jail if convicted.  ‘Perfectly Normal’  “These transactions were perfectly normal,” Cheminaud, a
broker for CPRI, part of  Credit Agricole  since 2000, said in
testimony Nov. 8.  The men traded illiquid bonds, selling them at a slightly
higher price to intermediaries in the U.K. that were acting for
offshore accounts, according to the investigation. Those
offshore groups, which the men allegedly controlled, then sold
the bonds back to the traders for even more, producing profits
that were hidden in the offshore funds.  “These intermediaries were useless,” BNP Paribas lawyer
 Arnaud de la Cotardiere  said. They were “a fake way to send the
profits abroad.”  The Credit Agricole units have asked for about 4.6 million
euros in total damages, while BNP Paribas is seeking about 3
million euros.  The investigation found records of phone calls and time-
stamps on orders and faxed confirmations that prove the amounts,
prices and buyers were arranged beforehand.  Paris to London  The time-stamp discrepancies could be explained by the time
difference between Paris and London, where an intermediary
bought the paper, Cheminaud said, adding the fact that his
supervisors executed one of his orders while he was on vacation
proved he hid nothing.  Guy Vernier, Benameur’s former boss at Banque de
Financement et de Tresorie, now part of  Credit Agricole SA ,
defended the trader’s actions.  “These operations were classic,” he said on Nov. 8. There
was “absolutely nothing shocking.”  Moulines worked at Financiere Kleber, an asset-management
company, since renamed by BNP Paribas. He, Cheminaud and a
fourth defendant, real estate developer Elie Dahan, are accused
of having accounts in Switzerland and Luxembourg that
prosecutors say were also used as transit points for the trades.  Dahan, accused of receipt of stolen goods, said yesterday
he consulted Moulines only on behalf of his sister, for whom the
Swiss account was created. He said he “was never a beneficiary
of the account.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 