-- Bolton Wanderers' Loss Soars to 35 Million Pounds as Player Costs Rise
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-11-10T16:58:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/bolton-wanderers-loss-soars-to-35-million-pounds-as-player-costs-rise.html
Premier League soccer team Bolton
Wanderers’ annual loss more than doubled to 35.4 million pounds
($56.8 million) on increased investment in its playing squad and
restructuring costs.  The previous year’s loss was 13.4 million pounds. Sales for
the northwest England team rose 3.9 percent to 54.4 million
pounds, according to a filing for the year to June 30, 2010.
Cost of sales rose 26 percent to 76.5 million pounds as the club
spent about 15 million pounds on new players.  Restructuring accounted for 4.2 million pounds of that cost
figure, while net debt rose to 87.5 million pounds from 58.4
million. The company said its projections showed a shortfall in
the current level of cash-flow facilities.  “The directors are currently in discussions with potential
lenders in order to provide the company with adequate working
capital facilities,” it said.  The club’s owner  Edwin Davies  has provided a short-term
loan from his Moonshift Investments Ltd. to meet day-to-day
requirements. Moonshift won’t demand repayment before 12 months,
the accounts state.  Bolton Chairman Phil Gartside today said the team has now
agreed on new banking facilities with Barclays Plc. Much of the
team’s debt is to Davies, a local businessman with “deep
pockets,” Gartside said.  “There have been no indications from him, and I’ve known
him 20-odd years, that he wants to recoup his money in the near
future,” he said in an interview.  Player Sales  The club’s finances are likely to be boosted by player
sales, according to Gartside.  “We are not a selling club but we are a trading club,” he
said. “One of the problems we’ve had over the last three or
four years is that we’ve not done much trading.”  The club’s costs will be further reduced when it releases
out-of-contract players at the end of the season. Gartside said
the club tried to sell some of its roster in the last off-season
but couldn’t find any takers.  “If you took four or five players out of the squad you
have probably got eight million (pounds) of salaries that you
wouldn’t need,” he said.  Bolton finished 14th in the 20-team Premier League last
season and is eighth this season after 11 games. The team plays
at Everton tonight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 