-- Bond Risk Sinks to Record Versus Greece on GDP Disparity: Argentina Credit
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2010-11-10T22:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/bond-risk-sinks-to-record-versus-greece-on-gdp-disparity-argentina-credit.html
Argentina, whose 2001 default was
the biggest by a country, is the safest on record relative to
Greece in the market for credit-default swaps. Argentina’s
economic growth is helping it pay debt while Greece relies on a
European Union bailout to meet its obligations.  The cost of protecting Argentine debt against default for
five years fell to 600 basis points on Nov. 5, the lowest since
June 2008 and 266 less than Greek insurance, according to data
provider CMA. Argentina has the third-most expensive debt to
insure among the 71 countries tracked by CMA and Bloomberg after
Greece and Venezuela.  Investor confidence in South America’s second-biggest
country is growing as foreign  reserves  climb to a record high
and the central bank forecasts economic growth of 9 percent, the
most since 2005. Greece predicts its economy will shrink 4
percent this year and 2.6 percent in 2011 as it cuts wages and
pensions in exchange for 110 billion euros ($151.6 billion) of
emergency loans from the European Union and International
Monetary Fund.  “Argentina has a cushion both fiscally and through the
external position to stave off a crisis at this point,” said
 Aryam Vazquez , an economist with Wells Fargo & Co. in New York.
“The same can certainly not be said of Greece. The Greeks are
on life support right now with the IMF and the EU.”  While Argentine default swaps sank 93 basis points in the
past month as of yesterday, Greek contracts jumped 135 during
the same period, according to CMA. It cost 821 basis points more
to insure Argentine debt than Greek bonds in February.  Soybean Harvest  A record soybean harvest and surging automobile sales to
neighboring Brazil helped push Argentina’s reserves to $52.3
billion on Nov. 4. President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  took
$5.9 billion of reserves this year to pay bondholders and plans
to use another $7.5 billion in 2011.  Greece, which was forced to seek the aid package from the
EU and IMF after its borrowing costs soared and it was shut out
of debt markets, is seeking to close a budget deficit that is
equal to almost 13.6 percent of gross domestic product. Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  has ruled out a restructuring of the
country’s debt, state-run Athens News Agency reported on Nov. 3,
citing an interview he had with CNN television.  “Argentina has got some good things going for it, but
Greece isn’t going to make it,” said  Jim Craige , who helps
manage about $19 billion of emerging-market assets at Stone
Harbor Investment Partners in New York. “It’s going to need to
restructure its debt. It’s a question of when. They’re totally
reliant on the EU for support.”  Yield Spread  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 10 basis points to 505
at 5:17 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The peso was little changed at 3.9615 per dollar.  Warrants linked to growth in the economy fell 0.02 cent to
13.90 cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Argentina’s default swaps rose 18 basis points today to 634. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to debt agreements.  The country’s default risk has dropped in the past month on
speculation the death of  Nestor Kirchner , Fernandez’s husband
and predecessor, makes it more likely that an opposition
candidate will win the election, according to IDEAglobal.
Kirchner, who died Oct. 27, said in July that either he or
Fernandez would run for president next year. Argentina’s default
swaps fell 52 basis points on Oct. 27 while Greek contracts
surged 73, according to CMA.  ‘Way Out’  “The Kirchner-Fernandez regime could be on its way out and
as it departs whatever comes into Argentina very likely will use
more orthodox methods,” said  Enrique Alvarez , head of Latin
America fixed-income research at IDEAglobal in New York.  Kirchner, who said the IMF helped lead the nation into
default in 2001, changed personnel at the agency that measures
consumer prices in 2007, spurring concern he was trying to hide
the extent of inflation. Barclays Plc estimates inflation is
about double the official rate at 25 percent.  “Argentina remains a risk within the emerging-market
universe given politics and given the fact that inflation is
quite high,” Vazquez said.  The country’s ability to tap credit markets makes it less
risky than Greece, which would struggle to find buyers for its
debt without assistance from the European Central Bank, said
IDEAglobal’s Alvarez.  Argentina restructured $12.2 billion of debt in June left
over from the country’s $95 billion default in 2001, prompting
Economy Minister  Amado Boudou  to say the South American country
has regained the ability to sell bonds overseas.  “If it were to need to tap the markets, the markets would
be readily available,” Alvarez said. “When you look at Greece,
trying to access the market is not automatic. It’d be very
difficult and it’d be nearly impossible without the help of the
ECB or the support of the market on the part of the ECB.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Camila Russo  in New York at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  