-- BP Estimates Australian Solar Project Would Cost A$600 Million
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-11-10T05:51:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/bp-says-australian-solar-project-would-cost-600-million-seeks-funding.html
BP Plc , vying for Australian
government funding to develop a solar energy project in the
state of New South Wales, has estimated that its venture would
cost more than A$600 million ($600 million) to build.  BP’s proposed 150-megawatt project, near the town of Moree
in northwest New South Wales, would create 700 construction
jobs, the London-based company has said in documents filed with
the state planning department. BP must submit a plan to the
federal government by Dec. 15,  Jamie Jardine , a spokesman for
BP’s Australian unit, said by phone today from Melbourne.  The venture was one of four solar photovoltaic projects
selected by the Australian government in May to advance in the
competition for funding from the A$1.5 billion Solar Flagships
program. Suntech Power Holdings Co. and  Infigen Energy  made a
joint proposal, while AGL Energy Ltd. and TRUenergy Holdings Pty
Ltd. have also sought solar funding.  “Until you have a carbon price solar PV will always be
more expensive than electricity generated from fossil fuels,”
Jardine said. “It will be competitive when a carbon price is
introduced, but until then it needs some form of transitional
assistance. The flagships program does exactly that.”  Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  has set up a
committee to study options for introducing a price on carbon
emissions in a country where coal accounts for more than 80
percent of electricity production. The committee is considering
proposals including a cap-and-trade system to curb emissions.  2011 Decision  BP estimated the cost of its solar project in a filing
dated Aug. 31. On Nov. 5, New South Wales issued requirements
for the company to fulfill before submitting an environmental
assessment report, documents on the state’s website show.  “We’ve begun engaging with the community to try to come up
with a solution that works best for everyone,” Jardine said.
“We’ve been doing this for over 30 years now -- and we’ve got
big utility-scale projects in Italy and the U.S. We’ve got a
track record of building these things and operating them.”  A decision by the Australian government on the Solar
Flagships funding is scheduled for the first half of 2011. The
government has also “shortlisted” four solar thermal projects,
which heat water to produce steam.  Suntech , the Chinese solar-panel maker, and Sydney-based
wind farm developer Infigen submitted proposals for four solar
farms in New South Wales state that would cost about A$780
million. Infigen is also weighing a solar project site in
Victoria state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 