-- Brazil Said to Investigate Banco Panamericano After $1.5 Billion Rescue
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 2010-11-10T12:32:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/brazil-said-to-investigate-banco-panamericano-after-1-5-billion-rescue.html
Brazil’s central bank is
investigating possible accounting errors at  Banco Panamericano
SA  that prompted a 2.5 billion reais ($1.5 billion) rescue, a
person with knowledge of the probe said.  Securities regulators and shareholders are also conducting
investigations, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the probes are confidential.  Panamericano, a Sao Paulo-based bank focused on personal
credit and mortgages, received funding yesterday from its
controlling shareholder Grupo Silvio Santos, owned by Brazilian
media mogul  Silvio Santos . The bank replaced its chief executive
officer and shuffled its board after uncovering “accounting
inconsistencies” that led to financial statements
misrepresenting that company’s assets, according to a statement
to regulators.  Grupo Silvio Santos sought funding yesterday from the
country’s deposit insurance fund, which was set up by banks that
operate in Brazil and can be tapped in the event of
intervention, liquidation, bankruptcy or central bank-declared
insolvency, according to its website. The Sao Paulo-based
group’s holdings include, television stations, a cosmetics
company and an electronics retailer.  An official at  Caixa Economica Federal , the state-owned
bank that paid 739.3 million reais for a 35 percent share in
Banco Panamericano in December 2009, declined to comment.
Brazil’s deposit insurance fund will hold a press conference in
Sao Paulo today at 8 a.m. New York time, according to the
official who declined to be identified because he’s not
authorized to speak publicly.  ‘Private Parties’  A central bank official who asked not to be identified
citing internal policy declined to comment. The central bank
said in a statement yesterday it declined to comment on the
matter because “it is a deal between private parties.”
Panamericano’s press office declined to comment.  Suzana Liskauskas, a spokeswoman at the Rio de Janeiro-
based securities regulator known as CVM, declined to comment.  The cash injection aims to “preserve current levels of
capital,” Panamericano said yesterday in a filing.  Valor Economico newspaper reported earlier today that the
central bank is investigating whether fraud was committed at the
bank, without saying how it obtained the information. Fictitious
assets and credits registered by the bank’s directors inflated
its results, O Estado newspaper reported yesterday. The fraud
wasn’t discovered by internal controls or independent auditors,
the newspaper said.  Panamericano named  Celso Antunes da Costa  as chief
executive officer, replacing  Rafael Palladino , and seven new
executive directors, according to the filing. The bank was the
victim of a fraud,  O Estado de S. Paulo  newspaper reported,
citing people it didn’t identify familiar with the situation.  Panamericano’s preferred shares  have tumbled  11 percent
this week, closing at 6.77 reais yesterday, the  lowest  in more
than a year. The bank’s dollar bond due in 2020 sank to 108.15
cents on the dollar yesterday from 110.3 cents last week,
pushing up the yield to 7.3 percent from 7 percent, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net ;
 Robin Stringer  in Sao Paulo at 
 rstringer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net . 