-- Mantega Could Provide Fresh Loans to Brazil’s BNDES
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2010-11-10T22:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/brazil-s-mantega-said-to-provide-fresh-bndes-loan-as-early-as-next-week.html
Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  may agree as early as next week to provide fresh funds
to the state development bank after more than 205 billion reais
($120 billion) of assistance since the start of 2009, a
government official said.  The new loan to the bank, known as BNDES, likely will be
announced together with a stimulus plan encouraging long-term
lending by non-state banks, said the official, who is
knowledgeable of the plan and asked not to be identified while
it is under discussion.  Pumping more money into BNDES would only add to the loan
growth in an economy now in the midst of a record credit
expansion, and runs counter to fostering the macroeconomic
stability that would encourage long-term growth,  Roberto Padovani , chief strategist of Sao Paulo-based Banco West LB,
said.  “Fiscal tightening is very important for reducing the tax
burden and interest rates,” Padovani said in a telephone
interview. “Giving more money to BNDES stimulates growth in the
short term but sabotages the long term.”  Felipe Salto , economist at Sao-Paulo-based consulting firm
Tendencias, also takes a negative view of a possible new loan to
the Rio de Janeiro-based development bank.  “It seems there’s no limit,” Salto said in a telephone
interview. “It’s not good for the country’s risk profile to
have gross debt of around 60 percent of gross national product
for very long.”  Long-Term Investment  Brazil’s gross debt in September was 59.6 percent of gross
domestic product, down from 64.7 percent in October 2009,
according to the central bank.  Luciano Coutinho , head of the development bank, told
reporters yesterday he is seeking an additional capital
injection from the Finance Ministry. BNDES is not asking the
Treasury for a specific amount of capital, bank director  Elvio Gaspar  said yesterday in an interview in Rio de Janeiro.  Coutinho also said that the government’s plan to stimulate
long-term private investment will be issued by the end of
November after Mantega returns from the Group of 20 meeting in
Seoul. If the measures are successful, BNDES could play a
smaller role, he said.  Brazil’s federal domestic debt has jumped 21 percent since
the end of 2008, and the Treasury’s injection of 205 billion
reais into BNDES is equal to about 75 percent of the increase,
according to government data.  The Treasury also transferred 4.5 billion reais worth of
stock in  Petroleo Brasileiro SA  to the bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arnaldo Galvao  in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  