-- Bristol Palin Survives `Dancing' Elimination Round With Help of Tea Party
-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 2010-11-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/bristol-palin-remains-on-abc-s-dancing-as-fans-continue-to-muster-votes.html
Bristol Palin  survived another
elimination round on ABC’s “Dancing With the Stars” as fans
including Tea Party supporters mustered enough votes to overcome
low scores from the talent show’s judges.  Palin, the daughter of former Alaska Governor  Sarah Palin ,
will return for the ninth week of the  Walt Disney Co.  network’s
show, after her tango with partner Mark Ballas tied for the
judges’ worst score. Former NFL quarterback  Kurt Warner  was
eliminated yesterday, based on the lowest combined tally.  “There’s a strong popular movement behind Sarah Palin at
the moment and she’s receiving a lot of support from the Tea
Party,” Conrad Green, executive producer of the program, said
in a Nov. 4 interview. “It’s entirely possible some of those
people are behind Bristol for political reasons.”  During the taping of the Nov. 8 show, the 20-year-old Palin
wore a Tea Party t-shirt while rehearsing.  “Dancing With the Stars,” TV’s most-watched show this
season, pairs celebrities with professional dancers in weekly
elimination rounds that weigh the public’s votes and judges’
scores equally. The program, airing Monday and Tuesday nights in
the U.S., consists of a performance night and a results night.
The format allows weaker participants with more fans to advance.  Palin’s second dance, an “instant” samba -- a new twist
in which contestants get their music just before hitting the
dance floor -- landed the couple at the bottom of the leader
board.  “My biggest fear for the samba is getting off beat,
because once you’re off beat you’re screwed,” Palin said during
rehearsals.  Contestants, now down to four, include singer  Brandy Norwood , actress  Jennifer Grey  and Disney Channel star Kyle
Massey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ronald Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 Rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  