-- Britain Should Extend VAT, Overhaul Property Tax, Nobel-Led Study Asserts
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-11-10T12:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/britain-should-extend-vat-overhaul-property-tax-nobel-led-study-asserts.html
Britain should charge value-added
tax on financial services, scrap stamp duty on property
purchases and introduce an allowance to encourage equity
finance, an independent review of the taxation regime said.  The study, led by Nobel laureate  James Mirrlees , found the
tax and benefits system was unnecessarily complex and contained
too many exemptions with successive governments guilty of using
tax policy to court voters at a long-term cost to the economy.  “The U.K. system falls short of the ideal in costly and
inequitable ways,” Mirrlees, emeritus professor of political
economy at Cambridge University, said in the report published in
London today. “It discourages saving and investment and
distorts the form they take. It is undeniable that some of the
proposed changes would be politically difficult. But failure to
reform imposes enduring costs.”  The report comes as governments around the world seek to
raise more money from their tax systems to repair public
finances battered by the worst global recession since at least
World War II.  The financial sector should be subject to the same taxes as
other businesses, with the exemption of financial services from
VAT, a 17.5 percent levy on sales, making it too hard for
companies to borrow money and too easy for households, the
report said.  While it is hard to levy VAT on financial services in the
same way that is applied to other goods and services, a tax
broadly equivalent to VAT should be applied, it said.  ‘Highly Inefficient’  The report argued that exempting things such as food and
children’s clothing from VAT is a “highly inefficient” way of
targeting help for people on low incomes. Money raised from
extending the VAT tax base to virtually all goods and services
could be used to reduce direct taxes on incomes, it said.  The review makes an important contribution to the long-term
debate on the tax and welfare system and the government will
consider its findings, the Treasury said in an e-mailed
statement today. The government, the Treasury said, aims to
simplify the system, improve the tax policymaking process and
carry out fundamental welfare reform including the introduction
of a universal credit, a move recommended by Mirrlees.  Mirrlees, whose team included former Bank of England policy
maker  Timothy Besley  and research analysts at the  Institute for
Fiscal Studies , said the current corporation-tax regime
discouraged equity-financed investment and favored debt finance.  He suggested an allowance for corporate equity should be
introduced, providing a deduction for the cost of using equity
finance, similar to that applied to interest payments on debt.  Boost to Growth  This would ensure that only  profits  above the normal return
to capital invested are taxed, the report said. The change would
lead to an increase in national income of 1.4 percent, it said.  The study attacked stamp duty on land purchases as
“inefficient and badly designed” and said the local authority
levy known as council tax is in need of reform as it is based on
the value of homes in 1991. The charges should be replaced with
a tax proportional to the current value of domestic property
that would effectively serve as a VAT on housing, it said.  Standard bank and building-society accounts should be
entirely free of tax, equity-based tax-free savings accounts
should be maintained and the main features of the tax treatment
of pensions should stay to encourage savings, the report said.
The tax and benefits system should be changed to strengthen work
incentives, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 