-- Browder Urges U.S., Europe to Bar Russian Officials
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2010-11-11T09:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/browder-urges-u-s-europe-visa-ban-for-russians-linked-to-lawyer-s-death.html
Hermitage Capital Management  Ltd., a
$1.2 billion hedge fund firm, is urging countries in  Europe  and
 North America  to sanction Russian officials implicated in the
death of lawyer Sergei Magnitsky in a Moscow jail.  Magnitsky, a 37-year-old lawyer advising Hermitage, died
almost a year ago after 358 days in pre-trial detention during
which he said he was abused and denied medical treatment to
force him to drop fraud allegations against Russian officials.  Hermitage, once the largest foreign investor in  Russia , is
urging the European Parliament and lawmakers in six countries,
including the U.K., U.S., Canada and  Poland , to impose a visa
ban on 60 officials it says are linked to Magnitsky’s death on
Nov. 16, 2009. While Russian authorities are investigating the
case, no one has yet been prosecuted.  “We’re hoping for Russia to provide justice for Sergei
Magnitsky,” Hermitage founder  William Browder , 46, said Nov. 9
in a phone interview from  London . “But in the clear absence of
that, we’re going to create justice outside of Russia.”  Browder’s list of those responsible for Magnitsky’s death
includes officials from the Federal Security Service, the main
successor to the KGB,  Interior Ministry , Prosecutor General’s
Office, Federal Tax Service and Federal Prison Service.  Corruption Charts  President  Dmitry Medvedev  has made fighting corruption one
of his key objectives as he seeks to attract foreign investors
to reduce Russia’s reliance on oil, gas and other raw materials.
Russia is the world’s most corrupt major economy, according to
Berlin-based Transparency International’s 2010 Corruption
Perceptions Index released Oct. 26. It ranked 154th among 178
countries, alongside Tajikistan and  Kenya .  Russia last year put Browder on its international wanted
list, saying he and Magnitsky participated in  tax evasion  that
deprived the government of more than 500 million rubles ($16.2
million). Investigators say Browder, who was barred from
entering Russia in 2005, is using Magnitsky’s death to distract
from the case against him.  Hermitage, which once had assets of $4 billion in Russia,
has denied wrongdoing, calling the charges retribution for
accusing Interior Ministry officials of stealing more than $230
million of state funds. Browder has said his companies have been
audited and that no tax claims have been filed against them.  The  Investigative Committee of the Prosecutor General’s
Office  is investigating officials accused of involvement in
Magnitsky’s death.  Government Newspaper  Alexander Bastrykin , who heads the committee, said in a
September interview with  Rossiiskaya Gazeta , the government’s
official newspaper, that there was “no reason” to believe
Magnitsky’s death was connected to the activities of those
prosecuting the criminal case against him.  Asked if any officials would face prosecution, he said:
“The investigation will determine that and it is still ongoing.
We want to get to the bottom of everything, objectively, without
any outside pressure.”  Magnitsky made 450 official complaints in which he
described “physical and psychological pressure” and said his
prosecution was “a repressive measure” designed to punish him,
according to Browder.  Vladimir Markin , a spokesman for the investigative
committee, said in a written response to questions in August
that Magnitsky died of heart failure. Magnitsky made
“justified” complaints about the conditions of his detention
and lack of medical care, Markin said.  European Parliament  The European Parliament may include a proposal for a visa
ban on the 60 Russian officials in its annual report on human
rights in December, the office of Heidi Hautala, the Finnish
chairwoman of the assembly’s subcommittee on human rights, said
by e-mail.  U.S. Senator Benjamin Cardin and Congressman James McGovern, both Democrats, on Sept. 29 introduced legislation
that would freeze the assets of and ban visas for the  officials 
accused of involvement in Magnitsky’s death.  “We believe that they need to hold the people involved in
public corruption accountable and truly do an investigation and
bring charges against those responsible,” Cardin said in a
phone interview from  Washington . “To date, they haven’t done
that, so we’re trying to make that point as loudly as we can.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  