-- Build America Bond Extension Threatened as Republican Wins Crimp Spending
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2010-11-10T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/build-america-bond-extension-threatened-as-republican-wins-crimp-spending.html
The Republican landslide in U.S.
House elections may derail efforts to extend the Build America
Bond program, a part of President Barack Obama’s stimulus that
has helped pump $158 billion into local public-works projects.  With the federally subsidized bond program set to expire at
year-end, supporters are pressing for an extension in the lame-
duck session of the Democratic-controlled Congress, which begins
Nov. 15. Prospects will grow dimmer in January, when
Republicans, who have called Obama’s $787 billion stimulus too
costly, take control of the House and reduce the Democratic
majority in the Senate.  “If it doesn’t get through now, it’s not going to
happen,” said Jim Currie, the head of federal relations in
Washington for the  National Association of State Treasurers ,
which is seeking to keep Build America Bonds in place.  The U.S. pays 35 percent of the interest on taxable  Build
America Bonds , which have been a boon for local officials
seeking to finance construction projects. The securities have
also provided fees for Wall Street underwriters and helped hold
down borrowing costs in the tax-exempt municipal bond market,
where supply has diminished because of the federal subsidies for
sellers of the taxable debt.  Republicans say the Nov. 2 election results were a rebuke
of Obama’s expansion of the federal government, including the
stimulus measure that created Build America Bonds. Senator  James DeMint , the South Carolina Republican and Tea Party favorite,
said in a Nov. 7 NBC interview that the election showed “people
are rejecting, in large numbers, this rampage of government
spending.”  Prospects Dim  Mike Nicholas , chief executive officer of the Washington-
based  Bond Dealers of America , a trade group, said the
Republican approach would imperil the Build America program.  “There’s a very good chance they will be done, and it will
be hard to bring them back,” he said.  An end to Build Americas would increase tax-exempt bond
supply by about 35 percent, just as money is starting to migrate
back toward stocks, said  Alan Schankel , the director of fixed-
income research for Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, the
Philadelphia-based brokerage. That may put pressure on muni-bond
prices, which move in the opposite direction of yields.  “The forces are conspiring to increase supply and reduce
demand, and that’s going to push yields higher,” he said.  Build America Bonds have financed projects such as the  new
bridge spanning  the San Francisco Bay and mass-transit in New
Jersey. California, the largest issuer of U.S. municipal debt,
is planning to sell $2 billion of the bonds next week.  International Interest  The securities have also drawn the interest of overseas
buyers, whose holdings of municipal bonds jumped to $83 billion
by the end of June, up 67 percent from a year earlier, according
to the Federal Reserve. Non-U.S. buyers accounted for $123.1
million of New York City’s $775 million Build America Bond sale
last month, according to Comptroller  John Liu .  Extensions of the program have twice passed the House this
year, only to falter in the Senate in part because they were
packaged with other provisions that generated opposition. In
September, Senator  Max Baucus , the Democrat who heads the
Finance Committee, introduced a one-year extension with a
reduced subsidy of 32 percent.  That bill could pass on its own during the lame-duck
session or become coupled with proposed extensions to the 2001
and 2003 income-tax cuts, which are also expiring this year,
said Jennifer Hoelzer, a spokeswoman for Oregon Senator  Ron Wyden , a Democrat on the Finance Committee. The expiring tax
cuts are among the top issues facing Congress before year-end.  “We are cautiously optimistic, but at this point nothing
is for sure,” she said.  Not Enough Time  There is as much as a 70 percent chance that Build Americas
will be extended for another year, according to a Nov. 5 report
by three JPMorgan Chase & Co. bond analysts,  Alex Roever ,  Chris Holmes  and  Josh Rudolph . Nicholas of the Bond Dealers of America
isn’t so optimistic.  “The smart money is that nothing will be done in the lame-
duck session because there’s so much division,” he said.  Lars Etzkorn, program director for federal relations at the
Washington-based  National League of Cities , said he’s concerned
that there isn’t enough time in the lame-duck session for
Congress to pass the Build America Bonds extension as well as a
separate measure making it easier for community banks to
purchase municipal bonds.  “We’re very concerned about all the access-to-credit
provisions,” he said.  Questioning the Need  The Build America program was expected to cost $36 billion
in the 10 years from its 2009 creation, according to the
Congressional Budget Office. Republican Representative  David Camp  of Michigan, in line to head the tax-writing Ways and Means
Committee, has questioned the need for the program, saying local
governments don’t create the type of jobs needed to foster
economic recovery.  Etzkorn said the group would continue to press for Build
Americas to be revived if they are allowed to lapse, though he
said it may be difficult.  “It is going to be a tough sell,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  