-- California's Mystery Contrail Likely an Aircraft, Pentagon Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-11-10T19:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/california-s-mystery-contrail-likely-came-from-an-aircraft-pentagon-says.html
The Pentagon concluded that a
contrail videotaped off the Southern California coast this week
probably was caused by a non-military aircraft, a spokesman
said.  “The Department of Defense, after gathering information
over the last 36 hours from within, and other U.S. government
agencies, is satisfied that the contrail was likely caused by an
aircraft,” Colonel  David Lapan , a spokesman, said today.  “There’s no evidence to suggest that it was other than an
aircraft,” Lapan told reporters. “We have looked at lots of
data sources.” The issue is now closed, he said.  A news helicopter from Los Angeles television station  KCBS 
captured  video  of a trail of vapor across the sky west of Los
Angeles and north of Catalina Island, about 35 miles off the
coast, at sunset on Nov. 8.  Speculation  arose that it might have
been caused by a missile launch.  All U.S. defense entities “with rocket and missile
programs reported no launches, scheduled or inadvertent, during
the time period in the area of the reported contrail,” Lapan
had said yesterday.  In addition, the two military agencies responsible for
protecting the nation -- the  North American Aerospace Defense
Command  and  U.S. Northern Command  -- said they had determined
“there was no threat to the U.S. homeland,” he said.  The Federal Aviation Administration hasn’t been able to
determine the location, altitude or trajectory of the contrail,
said  Ian Gregor , an agency spokesman, in an interview.  “Without knowing that information, we can’t pinpoint a
source,” Gregor said. “We can’t say where the contrail came
from.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  