-- California Budget Deficit May Swell to $25.4 Billion in Next 19 Months
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2010-11-10T21:16:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/california-gap-may-reach-25-4-billion-over-19-months-fiscal-analyst-says.html
California , the most populous U.S.
state, may face a $25.4 billion budget deficit over the next 19
months, the fourth time in as many years the state has
confronted a spending gap, its fiscal analyst said.  The deficit includes $6.1 billion in the current fiscal
year, which ends June 30, and about $19 billion the next year,
according to a  report  released today by the nonpartisan
Legislative Analyst’s Office. Governor-elect  Jerry Brown , who
will be sworn in Jan. 3, must propose a plan to erase the
deficit by Jan. 10. The report warned against “patching over”
shortfalls with temporary fixes.  “Unless plans are put in place to begin tackling the
ongoing budget problem, it will continue to be difficult for the
state to address fundamental public-sector goals -- such as
rebuilding aging infrastructure, addressing massive retirement
liabilities, maintaining service levels of high-priority
government programs and improving the state’s tax system,” the
report said.  Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  and lawmakers last month
passed an $86.6 billion  budget  for the current fiscal year -- a
record 100 days late -- amid an impasse over how to eliminate a
$19 billion shortfall. Voters Nov. 2 approved a ballot measure
lowering the margin needed to pass a budget from a two-thirds
majority to a simple majority. Tax and fee increases still need
a supermajority.  Temporary Fixes  The Legislative Analyst’s Office said the state is unlikely
to secure $3.5 billion of the $5.3 billion in federal funds
Schwarzenegger and lawmakers included in their budget. Half of
the shortfall next fiscal year is the result of temporary fixes
put in place in the past two years, including $8 billion in tax
increases set to expire.  In the report, Legislative Analyst  Mac Taylor  said
California is likely to face deficits of about $20 billion each
year through 2015.  A call to Brown’s deputy communications director, Evan
Westrup, wasn’t immediately returned.  Brown said the day after he won election that voters don’t
appear open to higher taxes to fix the budget, citing the
rejection of an $18 increase in vehicle-registration fees that
would have been used for state parks.  That means he’ll have to work with Democratic-controlled
Legislature for further spending cuts on top of the $8 billion
that were part the current year’s deficit-reduction plan and the
more than $30 billion slashed in the previous two years.  Bond Sale  The new deficit figure comes as the state is preparing to
sell about $14 billion of long- and short-term debt during the
next two weeks. Standard & Poor’s rates California general-
obligation debt A-, its fourth-lowest investment grade and the
worst rating among states. Moody’s Investors Service gives it an
A1, six steps above speculative grade, and Fitch Ratings also
ranks California A-.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold 10-year
general-obligation debt from California issuers instead of top-
rated tax-exempt bonds declined to  122 basis points yesterday ,
according to Bloomberg Fair Market Value data. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  