-- Cameron Says Chinese Surplus, Curbs on Currency Risk Harming World Economy
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-11-10T09:55:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/cameron-says-chinese-surplus-curbs-on-currency-risk-harming-world-economy.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said economic imbalances, including China’s  trade surplus  and
curbs on its currency, risk sparking protectionism and pushing
the world economy into recession.  “Some countries with current-account surpluses have been
saving too much, while others like mine with deficits have been
saving too little,” Cameron said in a speech to students at
Peking University in Beijing today. “The result has been a
dangerous tidal wave of money going from one side of the globe
to the other. We need a more balanced pattern.”  The prime minister, who flies to Seoul later today for the
Group of 20 summit of leading economies, said greater Chinese
exchange-rate flexibility “must happen,” along with increased
domestic consumption.  G-20 nations including the U.S. want China to allow its
currency to move more freely to help their domestic producers
compete. Cameron said G-20 countries could agree to “hold each
other to account” over actions to protect their own economies
at the expense of others.  China posted a larger-than-forecast $27.1 billion October
trade surplus today.  Exports  gained 22.9 percent from a year
earlier and imports rose 25.3 percent, the customs bureau said.  The yuan climbed today to 6.6337 against the dollar as of
4:32 p.m. local time, close to the strongest level since 1993,
on speculation the country’s central bank will permit faster
appreciation before the G-20 meeting.  Import Duties  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said Nov. 8
that it is “overwhelmingly” in China’s interest to let the
yuan rise, as the House of Representatives attempts to impose
punitive duties on Chinese imports.  “At the worst point of the crisis, we averted
protectionism,” Cameron said. “But at a time of slow growth
and high unemployment in many countries those pressures will
rise again -- already you can see them. Globalization -- the
force that has been powerful in driving development and bringing
huge numbers into the world economy -- could go into reverse.”  He also told the students the China must do more to protect
intellectual property rights if it wants to win business support
abroad and play a role in an international agreement to reduce
emissions of gases linked to climate change.  China, the biggest emitter, has set itself a target of
cutting greenhouse gases per unit of gross domestic product by
40 percent to 45 percent from 2005 through 2020. That would
still expand its total emissions because of the nation’s growth
rate, London School of Economics professor Nicholas Stern said
last week.  ‘Fair Deal’  “China is too big and too important now not to play its
part,” Cameron said. “An international deal has to be fair.
And that means that countries with different histories can’t all
be expected to contribute in exactly the same way. But a fair
deal also means that all countries contribute and all are part
of an agreement.”  Cameron said he wasn’t criticizing China for its economic
success in recent decades, adding that this very success left
the country more vulnerable to swings in the world economy.  The prime minister also used his speech to extol to his
audience the benefits of democracy and free speech. “Ultimately
we believe that they make our government better and our country
stronger,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in Beijing at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 