-- Cameron Tells Chinese Students Democracy, Free Press Strengthen Countries
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2010-11-10T08:13:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/cameron-to-tell-chinese-students-political-freedom-strengthens-countries.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  told an
audience of Beijing students today that multiparty democracy, a
free press and independent judiciary make Britain stronger, as
he urged China to open up its political system.  “If I were not in Beijing this Wednesday afternoon, I
would be preparing for my weekly session of prime minister’s
questions in the House of Commons, where MPs question me freely
about the whole range of government policy,” Cameron said in an
address at Peking University. “Ultimately we believe that they
make our government better and our country stronger.”  In calling for more freedoms in a speech in China, Cameron
went further than previous British prime ministers. The visit
comes at a sensitive time, as China urges other countries to
boycott the Dec. 10 ceremony in Oslo at which jailed dissident
 Liu Xiaobo  will be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for his
campaign for Chinese democracy. British officials refused to
confirm or deny yesterday that Cameron had discussed Liu’s case
with the Chinese leadership.  While Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  has said that people’s
wishes for freedom are “irresistible,” a speech he made in
August calling for more openness was censored by the Central
Propaganda Department, according to a letter from retired
officials.  ‘Guarantor of Prosperity’  “The rise in economic freedom in China in recent years has
been hugely beneficial to China and to the world,” Cameron
said. “I hope that in time this will lead to a greater
political opening because I am convinced that the best guarantor
of prosperity and stability is for economic and political
progress to go in step together.”  The comments echoed those of President  Barack Obama , who on
a visit to Shanghai in November 2009 told students that open
criticism “makes me a better leader because it forces me to
hear things I don’t want to hear.”  Campaign groups have urged Cameron to raise charges of
human-rights abuses with his hosts in public.  “To turn a blind eye to very serious human-rights concerns
or to reduce human-rights concerns to at best private dialogues
behind closed doors is to betray both the British public and the
people who are repressed by the Chinese regime,” Stephanie
Brigden, the director of the London-based  Free Tibet  movement,
said in an e-mailed statement. “Representing Britain means
representing the British people, not just British businesses.”  Trade Ties  The focus of Cameron’s two-day visit has been boosting
trade ties, with deals including a $1.2 billion order for Rolls-
Royce Group Plc jet engines to power 16 Airbus SAS A330
aircraft.  “I will make the case for China to get market economy
status in the EU, but China needs to help, by showing that it is
committed to becoming more open, as it becomes more
prosperous,” Cameron said.  He said China must do more to protect copyright if it wants
to win business support abroad, and play a role in an
international agreement to reduce the gases linked to climate
change.  “China is too big and too important now not to play its
part,” Cameron said. “An international deal has to be fair.
And that means that countries with different histories can’t all
be expected to contribute in exactly the same way. But a fair
deal also means that all countries contribute and all are part
of an agreement.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in Beijing on  rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
 Gonzalo Vina  in Beijing on  gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 