-- Campbell Lowers Full-Year Forecast on Slower Soup Sales
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2010-11-10T15:31:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/campbell-lowers-full-year-earnings-forecast-as-soup-sales-trail-targets.html
Campbell Soup Co. , the world’s
largest soup maker, lowered its full-year forecast, saying U.S.
consumers failed to buy as much as anticipated.  Per-share earnings for the year ending July will climb 2
percent to 4 percent, Camden, New Jersey-based Campbell said
today in a statement. That compared with a previous  forecast  of
5 percent to 7 percent. The stock fell as much as 4.2 percent,
the most in six months.  Increased promotions didn’t fuel purchases as intended as
Campbell faced increasing competition on price, Chief Executive
Officer  Doug Conant  said in the statement. Some U.S. consumers
are still holding back on spending as they recover from the
worst economic slump since the Great Depression.  “Clearly you have to respond if your competitors are being
promotional,” analyst  Jack Russo  of Edward Jones & Co. said in
an interview. “But their response did not get sales moving in
the right direction. There are more questions than answers right
now.”  Campbell fell $1.13, or 3.1 percent, to $34.92 at 10:16
a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . Earlier the
shares fell as low as $34.54, the biggest drop since May.  Sales probably will climb at least 1 percent for the year,
Campbell said, compared with a previous target of at least 2
percent. This is the third straight year the company has lowered
its sales forecast.  More consumers are buying competing products from  Nestle
SA ,  ConAgra Foods Inc . and  Kraft Foods Inc.  as sales in the $5
billion U.S. soup industry slump, according to data from the
companies and research firms. The most recent decline deepens
market-share losses over more than two decades.  New Competitors  The share of at-home lunch meals with soup fell to 12
percent from 14.4 percent from 1985 to 2009, and dinners with
soup shrank to 5.6 percent from 6.5 percent, according to market
researcher NPD Group Inc. In the same period, the percentage of
meals with pizza, macaroni and cheese or a frozen entree rose,
NPD said.  Edward Jones’s Russo recommends holding Campbell shares.
The St. Louis-based analyst said the declining sales emphasized
the need for Campbell to expand beyond soup. The menu item
accounts for about 80 percent of Campbell’s U.S. soup, sauces,
and beverages unit, whose sales amounted to $3.7 billion last
year, according to  Andrew Lazar , an analyst at Barclays Capital.  The company, which makes Goldfish crackers and Chunky brand
soup, said this year that it’s seeking acquisitions to bolster
its snacks and beverage units. Russo said he doesn’t expect an
acquisition soon as Conant plans to step down next July, handing
the job to chief operating officer  Denise Morrison .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  