-- Canada's Dollar Rises to Seven-Week High Versus Euro on Signs of Recovery
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-11-10T22:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/canada-s-dollar-appreciates-against-greenback-on-global-growth-optimism.html
Canada’s dollar climbed to a seven-
week high against the euro on evidence North America’s economy
is recovering while Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis may be
getting worse.  The loonie gained versus the greenback for the first time
in three days on a rally in crude oil, the nation’s biggest
export. Currency investors focused on the ability of Ireland,
Portugal and Greece to contain deficits after the U.S. Federal
Open Market Committee announced last week its plan to buy $600
billion in government bonds under quantitative easing.  “The Canadian dollar was beaten mercilessly heading into
the Fed’s QE decision,”  David Watt , senior currency strategist
at Royal Bank of Canada, the nation’s biggest bank, said via e-
mail. “Now that QE is past and no longer feared, attention has
turned elsewhere, specifically the EU periphery. The Canadian
dollar looked almost as ugly as the U.S. a few weeks ago, but
looks relatively good now.”  The Canadian currency appreciated 0.7 percent to C$1.0009
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0080 yesterday.
It earlier advanced to 99.94 Canadian cents per U.S. dollar,
touching parity for a fourth day. The loonie gained 0.6 percent
to C$1.3796 against the euro after reaching C$1.3731, the
strongest level since Sept. 22.  The loonie got a boost as Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty 
said in a statement today that China’s insurance companies will
be allowed to invest in Canada under an agreement that gives
Canadian financial markets access to a pool of up to C$106
billion ($106 billion).  ‘Catch a Bid’  “The Canadian dollar seemed to catch a bit of a bid after
the story hit the newswires,”  Matt Perrier , director of
foreign-exchange sales in Toronto at Bank of Montreal’s BMO
Capital unit, said via e-mail. “It’s unknown what percentage of
that pool will be invested in Canada, but it has had an initial
impact on the currency,” he said, citing potential foreign
funds flowing into Canada.  Canada’s  jobless rate  decreased to 7.9 percent in October
from 8 percent, Statistics Canada said Nov. 5, the same day U.S.
Labor Department figures showed payrolls added more than double
the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
America is Canada’s biggest trading partner.  U.S. initial jobless claims fell in the week ended Nov. 6
to 435,000, the lowest level in four months, from 459,000 in the
previous week, the Labor Department reported today. The median
forecast of 46 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
decrease to 450,000 from a previously reported 457,000.  ‘Bottomed in September’  “Whereas the deteriorating U.S. backdrop was in focus
until the FOMC, the signs that the U.S. soft patch bottomed in
September and the recent jobs news eases much of that concern,”
RBC’s Watt said. The firm predicts the loonie will trade on a
one-for-one basis with the greenback in mid-2011.  The Canadian dollar fell against most of its major
counterparts in October during the run-up to the Federal
Reserve’s Nov. 2-3 meeting on concern a stalling U.S. recovery
would slow the economy of Canada.  The euro weakened as Irish 10-year bonds tumbled for a 12th
day, leading a rout in debt from Portugal to Greece. LCH
Clearnet Ltd., the world’s second-largest fixed-income clearing
house, demanded that its clients place a larger deposit when
trading Ireland’s securities.  Canada’s bonds were little changed. The five-year bond
yield rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.20
percent after touching 2.24 percent, the highest level since
Sept. 21. The price of the 3 percent security maturing in
December 2015 decreased 6 cents to C$103.81.  The nation’s trade deficit widened to C$2.49 billion ($2.49
billion) in September, Statistics Canada said, more than the
C$1.6 billion median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg
survey. The gap matched a record set two months earlier.  Crude oil rose to a two-year high after a report showed an
unexpected decrease in inventories as refineries bolstered fuel
production. Crude for December delivery advanced as much as 1.7
percent to $88.21 a barrel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  