-- Canada Pension Investments Gain 6.6% as Markets Rally
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-11-10T18:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/canada-pension-fund-posts-second-quarter-gain-of-6-6-as-equities-rally.html
The Canada Pension Plan Investment
Board, the country’s second-biggest public pension manager,
reported an investment gain of 6.6 percent for its fiscal second
quarter as global stock markets surged.  The return for the three months ended Sept. 30 was C$8.4
billion ($8.4 billion), the Toronto-based fund manager said
today in a statement. The value of Canada Pension’s assets rose
to C$138.6 billion from C$129.7 billion on June 30.  “All major equity market indices realized gains in this
quarter, in particular U.S. markets, which posted their best
September results in 70 years,” Chief Executive Officer  David Denison  said in the statement.  Canada’s pension funds averaged a 7.3 percent return in the
period, according to an October report by RBC Dexia’s
investment-services unit. The equity benchmark  Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  climbed 10 percent, including
dividends, and the MSCI World Index advanced 14 percent.  The fund includes investment earnings and contributions not
needed to pay current pensions. Contributions in the quarter
amounted to C$500 million.  Canada Pension posted net investment income of C$5.84
billion from equities, its largest portfolio at 53 percent, the
fund manager said in its financial statements. Bonds and debt
securities, which represent a third of its holdings, earned
C$1.85 billion, and inflation-sensitive assets such as real
estate and infrastructure added C$773 million.  Global Search  Canada Pension continues to search worldwide for
infrastructure assets, real-estate investments and private-
equity deals, Denison said in an interview. The fund manager bid
for a 10 percent stake in Ontario’s 407 Express Toll Route for
C$894 million last month, and completed a takeover of Tomkins
Plc with Onex Corp., Canada’s largest buyout firm, in September.  “Private equity remains a focus for us, the Tomkins
transaction is an example of that,” Denison said. “You’ll see
us continue to be active in private equity on a selective basis
over the coming months.”  The environment for financing of private-equity deals is
still challenging, according to Denison.  “That’s one of the reasons why generally we’re not seeing
lots of transactions announced in private equity, and certainly
not lots of large ones,” he said. “This plays to one of our
advantages because we don’t require a high degree of financing
in order to complete our private-equity transactions.”  Canada Pension also is interested in energy assets, Denison
said. “Energy is a big part of the public markets and we need
to be very focused on it,” he said.  Canada Pension covers every Canadian province except
Quebec. Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec, the country’s
largest pension manager, oversees pensions for retirees in the
French-speaking province.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  