-- Capital Dynamics Plans to Set Up New Asian Fund of Private Equity Funds
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2010-11-10T01:43:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/capital-dynamics-plans-to-set-up-new-asian-fund-of-private-equity-funds.html
Capital Dynamics , a Swiss private
equity firm with about $20 billion in assets, plans to start an
Asia-focused fund of private equity funds in a year or two after
opening a Japanese office this month.  The Japanese unit aims to raise and invest about 300
billion yen ($3.7 billion) to 500 billion yen over the next
three to five years, said Kazushige Kobayashi, the newly
appointed managing director of Capital Dynamics in Tokyo. He
declined to elaborate on the details of the new fund including
the size, saying it is still in the planning stage.  Capital Dynamics is expanding its presence in Asia by
opening an office in Tokyo in addition to Hong Kong as it seeks
to tap investors’ appetite for the region. The firm’s funds of
private equity funds have yielded an aggregate return of more
than 20 percent since 1991, according to the firm.  “We have decided to expand in Japan because the global
private-equity market is finally starting to recover and that’s
coinciding with the recovery in Japanese investors’ investment
appetite,” Kobayashi, 49, said in an interview in Tokyo
yesterday.  The Japanese unit plans to hire about five to six fund
managers, he said. It currently has two people including
Kobayashi, after opening its office in Tokyo on Nov. 1.
Kobayashi was formerly president and chief executive officer at
 Alternative Investment Capital Ltd. , a Japanese private-equity
firm majority owned by  Mitsubishi Corp.   Kobayashi said he also aims to introduce the firm’s funds
investing in companies that are involved in clean energy
businesses to Japanese investors.  “We are going to take time to find the best opportunities
in Japan,” Kobayashi said. “Japan’s private-equity market
still has great potential and we are determined to grow our
business as we raise funds from local investors here in addition
to funds from Capital Dynamics’ investors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 