-- CFTC Proposes Open Swaps Clearing for Small Banks
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2010-11-10T23:02:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/cftc-proposed-rule-may-force-open-swaps-clearing-to-small-banks.html
The  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  approved a proposed rule to force the world’s largest
banks to offer swaps clearing services to smaller firms, a
change that would promote competition in the $615 trillion
market.  The proposed rule comes after an industry group of more
than 20 mid-size brokers such as Jefferies & Co., Imperial
Capital LLC and Newedge USA LLC told regulators they’ve been
denied access to swaps clearing because dealers want to keep the
market to themselves. Current rules favor larger banks such as
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Deutsche Bank AG  that have more capital
and expertise to be clearinghouse members.  “Swaps dealers or major swaps participants are prohibited
from interfering with or attempting to influence decisions
related to the provision of clearing or the acceptance of
clearing customers,” according to the proposed rule. The
potential regulation now enters a 60-day public comment period
before any final CFTC vote.  Jason Kastner , vice chairman of the Swaps and Derivatives
Markets Association, the mid-size brokers’ group, told the CFTC
and the Securities and Exchange Commission in August that the
trading side of dealer banks had blocked smaller firms from
becoming customers of the clearing business at those banks.  Trading swaps with customers such as hedge funds or asset
managers is more profitable for dealers than processing customer
trades to be sent to clearinghouses.  Who Can Open  “It’s about who can open a clearing account,” Kastner
said at the Aug. 20 hearing.  U.S. lawmakers sought to regulate swaps after the trades
complicated efforts to solve the financial crisis. The Dodd-
Frank financial overhaul act gives regulators until July 2011 to
finish rules governing how trades in the over-the-counter
derivatives market are processed after being executed on
exchanges or at swap-execution facilities.  Proponents of the law said that clearinghouses, which are
capitalized by their members, would increase stability in  over-
the-counter derivatives markets  by lessening the effect of a
default by a swaps user. Clearinghouses share the risk among the
members and use daily margining procedures to keep accounts
current. They also allow regulators to see market positions and
prices.  At the outset of today’s CFTC meeting, Commissioners  Jill Sommers  and  Scott O’Malia , the two Republicans on the body, said
they were opposed to having the commission move forward on
proposals without first completing certain definitions required
by the  law .  Tight Deadlines  “In a perfect world we would be doing the definitions
first, then we would be promulgating compliance of these
rules,” Sommers said. “But that’s not the way this is working
out because of the tight deadlines in the statute.”  The agency is likely to release the definitions of terms
such as “major swap participant,” “end user” and “swap
dealer” next month, Commissioner  Michael Dunn  said today.  Commissioner O’Malia asked Chairman  Gary Gensler  if the
process could be accelerated, saying “I’m ready to work.”
Gensler replied that the topic was scheduled for a Dec. 1
meeting.  “I feel like I’ve used the term ‘we have the cart before
the horse’ way too many times,” Sommers said. “Unfortunately
doing things in the wrong order doesn’t make the process very
easy for us.”  Proposed conflict-of-interest rules will prohibit bank
analysts who determine swaps prices from being influenced by the
swaps trading unit of banks. The pay for research employees
would be determined based on their performance rather than the
value they assign swaps.  Other Proposals  The CFTC also voted 3 to 2 to propose a registration
process for foreign-based derivatives exchanges. Commissioners
Sommers and O’Malia voted against. There are currently 20
foreign boards of trade operating in the U.S., of which 14 are
active, according to the CFTC.  The process would require a consideration of how the
foreign exchange maintains clearing services for its contracts.
Under current procedures, clearing standards don’t have to be
examined, according to the CFTC.  The commissioners also passed proposed rules to govern the
duties of swaps dealers and major swaps participants, including
annual training for employees, monitoring of trading, annual
audits and tests to ensure position limits aren’t exceeded.  Whistleblower protections were also approved. CFTC is
proposing to offer rewards of between 10 percent and 30 percent
for original information that leads to sanctions of $1 million
or more.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
 Phil Mattingly  in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 