-- LCH Raises Irish Bond-Trading Margin as Yields Soar
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-11-10T14:54:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/lch-clearnet-raises-margin-payments-for-positions-in-irish-government-debt.html
LCH Clearnet Ltd. demanded its
clients place a larger deposit when trading Irish  government
bonds  after the yield on the nation’s debt soared, and may
impose similar measures on other European securities.  The additional margin requirement of 15 percent, which
takes effect tomorrow, will be charged on investors’ net
position in Irish debt from Nov. 11, and the change will be
reflected in a margin call on Nov. 12, LCH said on its  website .
The London-based company is the world’s second-largest fixed-
income clearing house.  The move by LCH pushed Irish bonds lower, extending their
two-week decline as investors speculate costs to bail out the
nation’s banks have made the government debt load unsustainable.
LCH told clients on Oct. 5 that it was considering the increase
after yields on Irish 10-year debt rose to more than 450 basis
points above a euro-region AAA benchmark bond. The clearing
house handles about 8 billion euros ($11 billion) of Irish bond
trades daily, mostly repurchase agreements.  “This is LCH recognizing that the markets are quite
serious about the potential for Ireland to default or
restructure,” said Simon Penn, a market analyst at UBS AG in  London .  Clearing houses such as LCH guarantee investors’ trades are
completed by standing in the middle of two counterparties, and
raise margin requirements to protect themselves against losses
should one of the participants in a trade fail.  ‘Significant and Appropriate’  “If we judge that it is appropriate to apply the risk
framework we have for Ireland elsewhere then we will do so,”  John Burke , head of fixed income at LCH, said by phone today.
“Having taken the step to invoke the risk framework for
Ireland, it is a significant and appropriate move.”  Traders currently lodge funds with LCH equal to 5.62
percent for securities repayable in more than 11 years and less
for shorter-maturity debt. Irish trades will be subject to an
additional 15 percent on top of that current margin, Steven
Geoghegan, a risk manager at LCH, said in an e-mail.  The yield on Irish 10-year debt surged 44 basis points to
8.52 percent as of 1:24 p.m. in London. The spread over the
Bloomberg Fair Value Sovereign Benchmark 10-year bond widened 32
basis points to 585 basis points, according to Bloomberg generic
data. It was at 370 basis points as recently as Oct. 26.  “Irish banks are not LCH members, so this should not
directly affect their funding,” Francesco Garzarelli, chief
interest-rate strategist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in London,
said in a research report today. “However, this could amplify
the re-assessment of counterparty risk.”  LCH also clears trades in equities, interest-rate swaps and
commodities. It’s owned by banks, brokerages and exchanges that
use its clearing services.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brown in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  