-- China's Trade Surplus Jumps Ahead of G-20 Leaders' Summit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-10T11:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/china-trade-surplus-swells-more-than-forecast-to-27-billion-on-g-20-eve.html
China posted a larger-than-forecast
$27.1 billion October trade surplus, a day before Group of 20
leaders including Presidents  Barack Obama  and  Hu Jintao  meet in
Seoul to tackle global imbalances in spending and capital flows.  Exports  gained 22.9 percent from a year earlier and imports
rose 25.3 percent, the customs bureau said. With the surplus
pumping cash into the fastest-growing major economy, the central
bank announced a 0.5 percentage point increase in lenders’
reserve requirements.  China’s  surplus  and curbs on the yuan fuel tension with
trading partners and complicate the nation’s monetary policy as
inflation accelerates and officials seek to limit the risk of
asset bubbles. Obama said yesterday in Jakarta that G-20 leaders
will “extensively” discuss trade gaps and currency
restrictions hindering global growth.  “The rebalancing of China’s economy has an awfully long
way to go -- in fact it’s hardly even got started,” said  Mark Williams , an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London, who
worked at the U.K. Treasury as an adviser on China from 2005 to
2007. “In normal circumstances, the world might be willing to
wait, but not when the likes of the U.S. are struggling with
very high unemployment,” he said.  A one-sentence statement from the People’s Bank of China
this evening announced the increase in the amount of money that
lenders must set aside as reserves, effective Nov. 16.  Bank of China  Earlier, business magazine Caixin reported that an increase
applied to Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd., Bank of
China Ltd., Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., Bank of
Communications Co.,  China Construction Bank Corp.  and  Shanghai
Pudong Development Bank Co.   A person with direct knowledge of the situation had
confirmed to Bloomberg News that Bank of Communications was
affected. Caixin said the increases would apply for three months.
The central bank statement didn’t mention such a time limit.  In October, the central bank raised reserve requirements
for six banks for two months, people familiar with the matter
said then. Officials also raised interest rates for the first
time since 2007. In another sign of efforts to control money
supply, the currency regulator said yesterday that it would
tighten controls on inflows of capital.  The surplus, China’s second biggest this year, compared
with the $25 billion median estimate of 27 economists  surveyed 
by Bloomberg News and September’s excess of $16.9 billion.  -- Chinmei Sung ,  Paul Panckhurst ,  Li Yanping ,  Luo Jun ,  Zhang Shidong ,  Michael Forsythe . With assistance from  Jay Wang  in
Singapore. Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Lily Nonomiya .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chinmei Sung  in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  