-- Chinese Household Savers See No Investment Like `Hot' Yuan: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-11T05:20:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/chinese-households-see-no-investment-like-yuan-as-rates-rise-china-credit.html
At a time when Chinese officials are
seeking to stop “hot money” from abroad fueling asset bubbles,
the nation’s households are determining there is no place like
home to invest their record savings as the yuan appreciates.  Assets under management at the four biggest funds allowed
to buy global stocks and bonds under the qualified domestic
institutional investor program may fall for a second year in
2011, declining 13 percent to 61.3 billion yuan ($10 billion),
according to data provided by Z-Ben Advisors, a Shanghai-based
consulting firm that surveys the companies. Assets in the so-
called QDII funds dropped 6 percent in the past nine months.  China has accelerated approvals of overseas investment
funds as it seeks to reduce a balance of payments surplus that
added to $2.65 trillion of currency reserves and pushed up
property and stock prices. Households are favoring domestic
assets with their 29.9 trillion yuan of  savings  as the central
bank raises interest rates to curb inflation and allows yuan
gains to resume.  “Chinese households are optimistic about the prospects for
yuan gains and you also see Shanghai shares doing quite well,”
said  Linfeng You , a money manager in Beijing at ICBC Credit
Suisse Asset Management Co. The firm oversaw a QDII fund with
1.8 billion yuan in assets last quarter, according to Z-Ben.
“These factors will have a certain impact on the popularity of
QDII funds in the short run.”  Stock Accounts  Local stock investors  opened  449,905 accounts last week,
the most in a year, boosting the  Shanghai Composite Index  to the
strongest level in seven months on Nov. 8. A stronger yuan would
trim returns on overseas investments.  The decline in the assets of QDII funds contrasts with
Chinese government’s efforts to encourage growth in the
industry. The State Administration of Foreign Exchange said
yesterday it granted 87 funds quotas to invest $66.9 billion
globally as of the end of Sept. 30, almost 10 times the amount
so far invested.  The government first permitted financial institutions to
invest overseas under the QDII program in April 2006.
Investments outside China complement a strategy former Chinese
leader  Jiang Zemin  began articulating in 2000 of “ going out ”
to buy foreign resources. Jiang’s successor,  Hu Jintao , advanced
the policy.  Fund Approvals  China slowed approvals for mutual funds invested abroad in
2008 as the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression
spurred losses for those who put money into the funds. China
Minsheng Banking Corp., the nation’s first privately owned bank,
dissolved its overseas fund in March 2008 after it lost more
than 50 percent. Government approvals for the industry revived
last year as funds sought higher yields overseas.  The yuan climbed to the strongest since 1993 on speculation
the country’s central bank will permit faster appreciation as
Group of 20 leaders meet in Seoul. Twelve-month non-deliverable
forwards reflect bets the currency will strengthen 2.4 percent.  The currency rose 0.16 percent to 6.6233 per dollar in
Shanghai in its biggest three-day gain since its revaluation in
July 2005. It has climbed 3.1 percent since China ended a two-
year peg on June 19, the third-weakest advance among the 10
most-traded currencies in Asia excluding the yen. The Indian
rupee has appreciated 4.4 percent since June 18, while the Thai
baht has led Asian gains by surging 9.6 percent.  Trade Surplus  Yesterday, China posted a larger-than-forecast $27.1
billion October  trade surplus . The trade gap has pumped cash
into the fastest-growing major economy, complicating monetary
policy as inflation accelerates. U.S. President  Barack Obama 
said Nov. 9 in Jakarta that leaders of the Group of 20 nations
will “extensively” discuss trade gaps and currency
restrictions hindering global growth.  Consumer prices rose a more-than-forecast 4.4 percent from
a year earlier, a statistics bureau report showed in Beijing
today. Moody’s Investors Service separately said it boosted
China’s rating one step to Aa3, the fourth-highest grade.  The yield on the 3.28 percent government bond due August
2020 increased five basis points to 4.01, Interbank Funding
Center data showed.  The extra yield investors demand to hold China’s 10-year
bonds rather than similar-maturity U.S. government debt is at
119 basis points, after widening from 38 basis points in June,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Default Swaps  Five-year credit-default swap contracts for top-rated yuan-
denominated bonds gained 2.5 basis points yesterday to 88.5.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Much of the money from China that is being invested abroad
is going into emerging-market assets in countries with higher
rates and more rapidly appreciating currencies than China.  “We’re buying more Indian, Indonesian and Thai assets
mainly because of their rate differentials, optimism on their
economies and the pace of their currencies’ appreciation,” said
 Ranke Wang , an overseas investment manager at Shanghai-based
China International Fund Management. The firm’s QDII fund had
16.3 billion yuan of assets in the three months through
September, according to Z-Ben.  Assets at QDII funds are falling amid speculation the
People’s Bank of China will raise borrowing costs faster than
most of the world’s biggest economies. Swaps trades indicate the
PBOC may boost benchmark rates by 100 basis points, or 1
percentage point, within a year, according to  Liu Linan , an
analyst at Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG.  Raising Rates  China increased its benchmark lending and deposit rates for
the first time since 2007 in October. The one-year lending rate
jumped to 5.56 percent from 5.31 percent, while the deposit rate
rose to 2.5 percent from 2.25 percent. The central bank will
increase the reserve ratio requirement for the nation’s banks by
50 basis points from Nov. 16, the People’s Bank of China said
yesterday.  Property prices in the mainland rose at the slowest pace in
10 months in October after the government raised rates and
cracked down on inflows of speculative capital. Home prices in
70 cities increased 8.6 percent from a year earlier, slower than
the 9.1 percent increase in September, Bloomberg data show.  China said this week it will force banks to hold more
foreign exchange and strengthen auditing of overseas fund
raising, stepping up efforts to curb inflows on concern that the
U.S. Federal Reserve’s expanded monetary stimulus will cause
capital to flood into emerging markets.  “There’s not enough incentive for investors to put their
money outside of China at the moment with interest rates bound
to go higher and currency to strengthen,” said  Wei Yao , a Hong
Kong-based economist at Societe Generale SA. “China is
encouraging capital outflow to ease pressure on yuan
appreciation while there’s way too much liquidity in the
domestic market.”  -- Andrea Wong ,  Sonja Cheung . With assistance from Lilian
Karunungan in Singapore. Editors:  Garfield Reynolds , Sandy
Hendry  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at +886-2-7719-1579 or
 awong268@bloomberg.net ;
Sonja Cheung in Hong Kong +852-2977-6934 or
 scheung58@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 