-- China Orders State-Owned Firms to Pay More Dividends
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-10T03:07:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/china-orders-state-owned-firms-to-increase-dividend-payment-to-government.html
China will order state-owned
companies to increase dividends paid to the government starting
next year, a move that may rein in expansion plans by the
country’s largest firms and boost revenue for social spending.  The government will also extend the compulsory payment
program to 1,631 companies, the State Council said in a
 statement  on its website. About 120 companies pay dividends,
capped at 10 percent, to the government, according to the
official Xinhua News Agency.  The dividend plan may boost government funds to improve
spending on health-care, education and agriculture, aiding
China’s efforts to spur private consumption. The nation is
seeking to change its economic growth model between 2011 and
2015 so that the nation is less dependent on exports, Premier
Wen Jiabao said this week as he addressed U.K. business leaders.  “With more dividends received by the Ministry of Finance,
the government can reallocate the sum to public expenditure such
as medical and education expenses,”  Alex Fan , the head of
research at ICBC International Research Ltd. said. “With less
money retained by the companies, there could be a certain impact
on the investment or expansion plans.”  China’s economic growth in the past 40 years hasn’t
produced comparable improvements in the health and education of
its people, a United Nations report said Nov. 4. The nation,
while first in economic expansion since 1970, ranks 79th out of
135 nations in increasing life expectancy, the UN report said.  State Assets  The State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration
Commission (SASAC), created in 2003 to manage government
enterprises held $935.1 billion in domestic businesses at the
end of 2009, including majority stakes in the parent companies
of  China Telecom Corp.  and  PetroChina Co.  That’s up from $825.5
billion of investment in 2008.  “The State Council will “appropriately” raise the
proportion of dividend it collects from companies from 2011,
according to its statement.  Government companies in telecommunications, power,
petrochemical, tobacco, and coal industries pay 10 percent of
their profits as dividend, and those in steel, electronics and
trade sectors hand over 5 percent of earnings.  Other companies in industries including finance, railway
technology and agriculture don’t pay dividends currently, the
Ministry of Finance said in May. The government collected 98.9
billion yuan ($15 billion) in dividend last year, whereas state-
owned companies made a profit of 965.5 billion yuan, Xinhua said.  In the first seven months of 2010, sales at all state-owned
companies rose 8.8 percent from the year-earlier period, to 16.9
trillion yuan, according to the Finance Ministry.  Under the country’s 12th five-year development plan, the
government wants to boost the income of people with low and
medium salaries, spend more on social programs and encourage
non-government investment in infrastructure, urban public
services and financial services, Xinhua said Oct. 28.  -- Luo Jun  in Shanghai and  Stephanie Tong  in Hong Kong. Editors:
 Tan Hwee Ann ,  John Liu .  To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  