-- China Orders Reserve Ratio Increase After Trade Surplus Surges
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-10T12:13:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/china-raises-banks-reserve-ratios-as-trade-surplus-surges-to-27-billion.html
China’s central bank raised lenders’
reserve requirements as cash from October’s larger-than-forecast
$27.1 billion  trade surplus  threatened to add to the risk of
asset bubbles and accelerating inflation.  Reserve requirements will increase 0.5 percentage points
from Nov. 16, the People’s Bank of China said in a  statement  on
its website about eight hours after the trade data. The
announcement followed media reports today of increases for
selected banks.  Inflows of cash from monetary easing abroad and investors
speculating on gains in the yuan threaten to worsen Chinese
inflation forecast to have risen to a two-year high in October.
The trade imbalance and currency curbs that have pushed China’s
foreign-exchange reserves to $2.65 trillion will be discussed by
Group of 20 leaders meeting in Seoul from tomorrow.  “This move further highlights that Beijing’s policy focus
has shifted decisively from concerns about domestic growth and
external demand to concerns about inflation pressures and
liquidity management,” said  Brian Jackson , an emerging-market
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in Hong Kong. “The bias in
Beijing is clearly for more policy normalization, with further
rate hikes and currency appreciation in the pipeline.”  The increase takes reserve requirements for the nation’s
biggest four banks to 18 percent and will drain about 360
billion yuan ($54 billion) from the financial system, Bank of
America-Merrill Lynch said in a note.  ‘Big Drama’  Leaked news of selective increases may have prompted the
across-the-board move, said  Lu Ting , a Hong Kong-based economist
for Merrill, who called it a day of “big drama.”  Earlier, business magazine Caixin reported that an increase
applied to Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd., Bank of
China Ltd., Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., Bank of
Communications Co.,  China Construction Bank Corp.  and  Shanghai
Pudong Development Bank Co.   A person with direct knowledge of the situation had
confirmed to Bloomberg News that Bank of Communications was
affected. Caixin said the increases would apply for three months.
The central bank statement didn’t mention such a time limit.  China trade surplus was announced as G-20 leaders including
Presidents  Barack Obama  and  Hu Jintao  gather to tackle global
imbalances in spending and capital flows. The excess, China’s
second biggest this year, compared with the $25 billion median
estimate of 27 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News and
September’s $16.9 billion.  Inflation ‘Surprise’  China’s October inflation rate, to be announced tomorrow,
may “surprise on the upside” at about 4.4 percent and new
lending may be higher than estimates at close to 600 billion
yuan, Bank of America-Merrill Lynch said in an e-mailed note.
The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of analysts is
for inflation of 4 percent.  The nation’s property prices rose 8.6 percent in October
from a year earlier, the smallest gain in 10 months, as the
government cracked down on speculation to limit asset-bubble
risks, a separate report showed today.  Exports  gained 22.9 percent from a year earlier and imports
rose 25.3 percent, the customs bureau said. China’s  surplus 
fuels tension with trading partners, with Obama saying yesterday
in Jakarta that G-20 leaders will “extensively” discuss trade
gaps and currency restrictions hindering global growth.  ‘Long Way to Go’  “The rebalancing of China’s economy has an awfully long
way to go -- in fact it’s hardly even got started,” said  Mark Williams , an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London, who
worked at the U.K. Treasury as an adviser on China from 2005 to
2007. “In normal circumstances, the world might be willing to
wait, but not when the likes of the U.S. are struggling with
very high unemployment,” he said.  Today’s move is after the central bank said last week that
monetary conditions will be guided back to “normal” following
the record expansion in credit that countered the effects of the
global financial crisis.  In October, the central bank raised reserve requirements
for six banks for two months, people familiar with the matter
said then. Officials also raised interest rates for the first
time since 2007. In another sign of efforts to control money
supply, the currency regulator said yesterday that it would
tighten controls on inflows of capital.  -- Chinmei Sung ,  Li Yanping . Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Cherian Thomas .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chinmei Sung  in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  