-- China Court Jails Tainted-Milk Activist for 2-1/2 Years, Rights Group Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-10T11:02:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/china-court-jails-tainted-milk-activist-for-2-1-2-years-rights-group-says.html
A Chinese court sentenced an
activist who organized support for parents of children poisoned
by toxic milk to 2 1/2 years in prison for “disturbing social
order,”  Amnesty International  said.  Zhao Lianhai, who helped set up a website where parents
could exchange information on how to sue companies involved in
the milk scandal, was sentenced at Beijing’s Daxing district
court today, the London-based rights group said in an e-mailed
statement. A person who answered the phone at the court declined
to give his name and said he wasn’t authorized to comment.  At least six babies died and 300,000 fell ill across China
after consuming milk contaminated with the industrial chemical
melamine in 2008. Zhao, whose son was sickened by melamine-
tainted milk, was arrested as compensation claims began going to
court late last year, according to Amnesty.  Chinese authorities “have imprisoned a man the Chinese
public rightly view as a protector of children, not a
criminal,”  Catherine Baber , Amnesty’s deputy director for the
Asia-Pacific, said in the statement.  The milk scandal prompted China to tighten food safety
standards and set up a special commission led by Vice Premier  Li Keqiang . The former chairwoman of  Sanlu Group Co. , the company
at the center of the controversy, was jailed for life and three
other people were given death sentences for their role in the
sale of tainted milk.  Cameron Speech  China has used social disorder or subversion charges to
stifle dissent or challenges to the government’s handling of
public scandals. Tan Zuoren, who probed the collapse of school
buildings in the 2008 earthquake in Sichuan province, was jailed
for five years for subversion in February, according to Hong
Kong-based broadcaster RTHK.  Liu Xiaobo , a dissident writer who was awarded the Nobel
Peace Prize last month, was jailed for 11 years on a charge of
plotting to subvert the ruling Communist Party. China’s
government denounced the award and has urged other countries to
boycott the Dec. 10 ceremony in Oslo.  Zhao’s sentencing came as visiting U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron  called for more freedoms in China in a speech to
students in Beijing.  “If I were not in Beijing this Wednesday afternoon, I
would be preparing for my weekly session of prime minister’s
questions in the House of Commons, where MPs question me freely
about the whole range of government policy,” Cameron said in an
address at Peking University. “Ultimately we believe that they
make our government better and our country stronger.”  Chinese police arrested a further six people and detained
41 others in August for distributing melamine-laced milk powder. 