-- China's Stocks Drop Most in 2 Weeks on Inflation, Capital Control Concerns
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-10T07:31:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/china-s-stocks-drop-for-second-day-on-inflation-capital-control-concerns.html
China’s stocks  fell, dragging the
benchmark index down for a second day, on concern rising
consumer prices and surging fund flows may spur the government
to boost interest rates and increase capital controls.  Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd. dropped the
most this month after a person with direct knowledge of the
situation said the central bank ordered some lenders to set
aside more reserves ahead of data tomorrow that may show a 4
percent gain in the inflation rate.  China Vanke Co.  and Poly
Real Estate Group slid more than 3 percent after higher
borrowing costs failed to lower home prices.  “Speculation that the October CPI figure was 4.4 percent
is the main reason that’s driving the market down today,” said
 Tu Hai , a strategist at Guoyuan Securities Co. in Shanghai.  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, dropped 19.64, or 0.6 percent, to
3,115.36 at the 3 p.m. close. The  CSI 300 Index  fell 0.7 percent
to 3,499.11, as losses for financial companies overshadowed
gains for consumer and health-care stocks.  China has ordered some lenders, including Bank of
Communications Co., to increase their reserve ratios by 50 basis
points from Nov. 15, according to the person. BoCom slid 2.1
percent to 6.13 yuan. ICBC slid 0.8 percent to 4.74 yuan. Huaxia
Bank Co. lost 4.1 percent to 12.36 yuan. China Merchants Bank Co.
fell 3.8 percent to 14.60 yuan.  Inflation Data  Government data due for release tomorrow will show the
inflation rate rose 4 percent in October, according to the
median estimate of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That
would be the highest in two years. The government’s full-year
inflation target is 3 percent.  October  consumer prices  may “surprise to the upside,”
driven by a rapid increase in food prices and heightened
inflation expectations, according to  Wang Qing , chief China
economist at Morgan Stanley. China may “send a signal to both
the market and international policy community ahead of the G20
summit” if consumer price inflation for October was
significantly higher than market expectations, Wang said.  China posted a larger-than-forecast $27.1 billion October
trade surplus, the day before Group of 20 leaders including
Presidents  Barack Obama  and  Hu Jintao  meet in Seoul to tackle
global imbalances in spending and capital flows. Exports rose
22.9 percent from a year earlier and imports climbed 25.3
percent, the customs bureau said on its website today.  Home Prices  A gauge of  property companies  slid 2.8 percent, the most
among the five groups in the Shanghai Composite. China Vanke
plunged 3.7 percent to 9.15 yuan, while rival Poly Real Estate
Group Co. slid 4.6 percent to 13.80 yuan.  Home prices  in 70 cities climbed 8.6 percent in October
from a year earlier, China Information News, the statistics
bureau’s newspaper, reported today. That’s slower than the 9.1
percent increase in September and the 8.9 percent median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of six economists.  “House price inflation is moving in the right direction
over the last few months, but officials will likely want to see
more progress, suggesting that the policy bias remains in favor
of more rate hikes,” said  Brian Jackson , a Hong Kong-based
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada, said in an e-mail.  China has tightened measures on home purchases this year,
suspending mortgages for third-home purchases and pledging to
speed up trials of property taxes nationwide. It also raised
interest rates in October for the first time in three years on
concerns of inflation and relentless growth in asset prices.  Kweichow Moutai Co. , a Chinese liquor maker, led gains for
consumer staples providers, rising 8.4 percent to 179.73 yuan.
Luzhou Laojiao Co. gained 5.4 percent to 45 yuan and Wuliangye
Yibin Co. added 4.1 percent to 38.52 yuan.  “Food and beverage stocks and healthcare providers are in
a stronger position to pass on costs in an inflationary
environment,” said  Wang Yongfeng , analyst at Rising Securities.  Quantitative Easing  China’s stock market may benefit from quantitative easing
as excess liquidity flows into equities,  Michael Kurtz , head of
Asian strategy at Macquarie Bank Ltd., said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television today. While the U.S. government’s debt-
buying plan “creates challenges for China,” some of this
liquidity may be diverted to the A-share market, he said.  The Shanghai Composite has climbed 32 percent from its July
5 low as fund flows to emerging markets surged. Stocks in the
gauge are valued at 17.7 times estimated earnings, less than
half the multiple of 43 when the market peaked in 2007.  Morgan Stanley recommended “cheap” stocks in China and
South Korea advised reducing holdings in Southeast Asia after
rallies drove indexes in Indonesia, the Philippines and Malaysia
to record highs.  Chinese stock investors opened 449,905  accounts  during the
week ended Nov. 5, the most in a year, according to data posted
on the website of the China Securities Depository and Clearing
Corp. today.  Fund Flows  Inflows into emerging-market stock funds have surpassed $60
billion and exceeded $46 billion in bonds, with both poised for
their best year since Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global
started tracking them in 1995.  Central bank adviser  Xia Bin  said the nation should tax
inflows of short-term capital and send a clear signal that
speculators bringing “hot money” into the country will be
punished. China doesn’t welcome foreign speculators in the
nation’s commercial real estate market, he said.  The State Administration of Foreign Exchange will tighten
management of banks’ foreign-debt quotas and introduce new rules
on their currency provisioning, the regulator said in a
statement yesterday. The government will also regulate Chinese
special-purpose vehicles overseas and tighten controls on equity
investments by foreign companies in China, it said.  Drugmakers Rally  Drugmaker stocks rose after the government announced plans
to speed up a restructuring of the pharmaceuticals industry.
Harbin Pharmaceutical Group Co. gained 2.5 percent to 25.50 yuan.
 Yunnan Baiyao Group Co. , a producer of traditional Chinese
medicine, added 5.8 percent to 70.30 yuan.  China will push for mergers and acquisitions in the
industry, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology
said in a statement on its website yesterday.  -- Chua Kong Ho ,  Zhang Shidong . With assistance from Li Yanping
in Beijing and  Luo Jun  in Shanghai. Editors:  Allen Wan , Richard Frost   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3048 or
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  