-- China's October Crude Oil Imports Decline From Record Reached in September
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-10T08:26:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/china-s-crude-oil-imports-drop-to-lowest-in-18-months-update1-.html
China, the world’s biggest energy
user, cut net crude oil imports to the lowest level in 18 months
as refiners drew on inventories because of higher global prices.  Net purchases reached 16.1 million metric tons last month,
or 3.8 million barrels a day, according to customs data released
in Beijing today. That’s the lowest since May 2009 and down from
the all-time high of 22.9 million tons in September.  Shipments in October were also below the monthly average in
the January to September period, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on government data. The drop came as the cost
of each barrel of crude that China purchased from overseas
increased an average of 2 percent compared with September.  “The low import volumes made up for the excess in
September,” said  Brynjar Eirik Bustnes , a Hong Kong-based
analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “Refineries absolutely need to
draw on stockpiles.”  In the first nine months, refiners processed 310.64 million
tons of crude to make fuels. With domestic crude production at
151.04 million tons during the period, China had to import about
160 million tons without having to draw on inventories. That’s
imports of 17.7 million tons on average each month.  “Assuming similar throughput levels to September, the draw
on stockpiles last month would be over 2 million tons,”
according to Bustnes.  Fuel Imports Rise  China overtook the U.S. last year as the biggest automobile
market and Germany as the largest exporter. Domestic automobile
sales may exceed 17 million units this year, increasing fuel
requirements, the National Energy Administration said last month.  Net imports of oil products, including gasoline and diesel,
gained for a third month in October, rising 18 percent to
840,000 tons, according to customs, which doesn’t provide a
breakdown by fuel type in its preliminary data.  In October, China paid an average $76.12 for each barrel of
overseas crude compared with $74.63 in September, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on the customs data.  Crude prices in New York have risen 17 percent since Sept.
1. Futures were at $86.74 a barrel in electronic trading at 3:57
p.m. Singapore time.  -- Winnie Zhu  and  Chua Baizhen . Editors:  Ryan Woo ,  Jane Lee .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Winnie Zhu  in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jane, Ching Shen Lee at 
 jalee@bloomberg.net . 