-- China May Limit Fertilizer Exports to Increase Domestic Supplies, CRU Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-10T04:46:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/china-may-limit-fertilizer-exports-to-increase-domestic-supplies-cru-says.html
China may cut exports of fertilizers
including  urea  and diammonium phosphate this year to boost local
supplies and lower prices after some cooking oils, cotton, sugar
and rubber surged to records this week, an analyst said.  “There’s speculation China may release a comprehensive
package of policies aimed at restricting crop-nutrient exports
to ensure domestic supplies and protect farmers’ interests as
soon as December,” Gavin Ju, a consultant at research company
 CRU , said in an interview in Beijing yesterday.  Reduced shipments from China, among the world’s largest
suppliers of urea and phosphate fertilizers, will expand the
market for Canada’s  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. , U.S.-
based  CF Industries Holdings Inc.  and  Mosaic Co. , Australia’s
 Incitec Pivot Ltd.  and their rivals. Urea  prices  gained 56
percent since May to $340 a ton, according to spot prices
tracked by ICIS.  “Any move to restrict Chinese fertilizer exports will
inevitably reduce global supply and drive up prices,” Ju said.  Cotton prices in China almost doubled since the beginning
of September to a record 33,720 yuan ($5,077) a ton today, while
natural rubber futures in Shanghai also nearly doubled in the
past year to a record 38,000 yuan a ton today. Sugar, palm oil
and rapeseed oil also advanced to all-time highs as reduced
domestic production, robust demand and inflation concerns all
spurred investments in agricultural products in China.  Rising Exports  China was the world’s largest urea exporter in 2007 and is
ranked as one of the largest phosphate fertilizer exporters.  Urea exports jumped to 3.69 million metric tons in the
first nine months this year, 83 percent higher than a year
earlier, according to CRU estimates. Diammonium phosphate
exports also gained, Ju said.  China levies about a 7 percent tariff on urea exports
during the non-peak seasons, which run from July 1 to Sept. 15
and from Oct. 16 to Jan. 31, and 110 percent during the rest of
the year, the peak season. The government may advance the start
of the peak season to Dec. 1 this year, lower the base prices
for urea and diammonium phosphate, which would effectively raise
the non-peak tariff for urea to 10 percent during non-peak
season, Ju said.  The cost of fertilizer output is rising in China, as urea
and methanol are produced from  coal . Prices of the fuel at
Qinhuangdao port, a benchmark for China, rose to the highest in
nine months on Nov. 1 on expectations of a colder-than-usual
winter.  The price of power-station coal with an energy value of
5,500 kilocalories per kilogram rose 2.7 percent to as much as
775 yuan a metric ton on Nov. 1 from a week earlier, according
to data from the China Coal Transport and Distribution
Association. That’s the highest since Feb. 8.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff of this story:
 Feiwen Rong  in Shanghai at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  