-- China Said to Order Some Banks to Raise Reserve Ratio
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-10T06:31:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/china-said-to-order-some-banks-to-raise-reserve-ratio-by-50-basis-points.html
China told some lenders, including
 Bank of Communications Co. , to increase their reserve ratios by
half a percentage point, a person with direct knowledge of the
matter said.  The increases will be effective Nov. 15, said the person,
who asked not to be identified as the orders weren’t public. A
press official at the  People’s Bank of China  declined to comment.  China, which today posted a larger-than-estimated $27
billion trade surplus for October, is intensifying efforts to
limit  inflation  and asset bubbles after the central bank last
month raised benchmark lending and deposit rates for the first
time since 2007. Those efforts may be hampered by U.S. Federal
Reserve monetary stimulus that threatens to trigger capital
flows into developing nations.  The central bank wants to lock up “money flowing into
China” including speculative capital and cash from exports,
said  Lu Ting , a Hong Kong-based economist at Bank of America-
Merrill Lynch. The odds of another interest-rate increase “in
the next couple of weeks might be lower on the margin” because
of the move, he said.  The increase will apply to China’s five biggest state-owned
banks --  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , China
Construction Bank Corp., Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., Bank
of China Ltd. and Bank of Communications Co. -- UOB Kayhian
Investment Co. said in a note today, citing “channel checks.”  Lu said the reserve ratio requirement will now stand at a
record 18 percent for the biggest banks.  ‘Short-Lived’ Selling  ICBC, the country’s largest lender, fell 2.7 percent in
Hong Kong today, while Construction Bank slipped 2.3 percent.
The  Hang Seng Finance Index  declined 1.6 percent.  “We expect any selling pressure to be short-lived and
temporary,” UOB’s Shanghai-based analyst  Sheng Nan  wrote in the
note. The move will drain about 200 billion yuan of cash from
the financial system, he estimated.  In October, the central bank raised reserve requirements
for six banks for two months, people familiar with the matter
said then. In the latest move, banks weren’t told how long the
measure would last, the person said today.  China may miss the government’s target for 3 percent
inflation this year, the nation’s top economic planning agency
said yesterday.  Xia Bin , an adviser to the Chinese central bank, said at a
forum in Beijing today that monetary policy should become more
“prudent” next year. The government set a target of 7.5
trillion yuan ($1.1 trillion) of new loans this year, 22 percent
less than the record 9.59 trillion yuan extended in 2009 to
counter the effects of the financial crisis.  The central bank raised the nation’s benchmark lending and
deposit rates last month ahead of data that showed inflation
accelerating to the fastest pace in 23 months. The statistics
bureau is scheduled to release inflation data for October
tomorrow.  -- Luo Jun , with assistance from  Zhang Dingmin  in Beijing, Jiang
Jianguo and  Judy Chen  in Shanghai. Editors:  John Liu ,  Paul Panckhurst .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at 
 Jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  