-- Cigarette Packages to Carry Images of Corpses, Lungs
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2010-11-10T21:17:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/cigarette-packs-in-u-s-required-to-show-images-of-corpses-diseased-lungs.html
Altria Group Inc. ,  Reynolds American
Inc.  and other cigarette sellers in the U.S. must place graphic
images such as corpses and diseased lungs on the warning labels
of packages and in advertisements to highlight smoking risks.  As part of the biggest tobacco marketing rules change in a
quarter century, nine labels will convey the health effects, the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration said today. The warnings,
required under a law passed last year, are an important step
toward reducing cigarette-related illnesses, FDA Commissioner
 Margaret Hamburg  said at a news conference.  The agency will seek public comment in selecting images
from among 36 proposed  graphics  in June 2011 as it aims to
reduce the U.S. smoking rate to 12 percent in a decade from the
current 21 percent. Cigarettes can’t be sold in the U.S. after
Oct. 22, 2012, without the  labels  pairing images with text such
as “Smoking can kill you.”  “Every single pack of cigarettes in our country will in
effect be a mini-billboard that tells the truth about smoking,”
Hamburg said.  The proposed images include photos of dead bodies, rotting
teeth, cancerous lungs and children exposed to second-hand
smoke. The graphics would cover 50 percent of the front and back
of cigarette packages and 20 percent of print ads, Hamburg said.  Current Warnings  U.S. cigarette packs and ads now carry one of four  warnings 
under a federal law enacted in 1984. The messages include
“Cigarette Smoke Contains Carbon Monoxide” and “Smoking
Causes Lung Cancer, Heart Disease, Emphysema, and May Complicate
Pregnancy.” The warning labels without images are ineffective,
the  American Cancer Society  said today in an e-mail.  Canada , the U.K. and Brazil are among 38 countries that
require graphic cigarette warnings, according to data compiled
by the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids in Washington. One in five
Canadian smokers reported reducing his intake as a result of the
graphic labels, according to a  study  of more than 600 people.  “This probably has a somewhat chilling effect on people
who are not already committed smokers,”  Thomas Russo , who
oversees more than $3 billion at Gardner Russo & Gardner in
Lancaster, Pennsylvania, said today in an interview.  “The market of loyal smokers will live with it, but it
slows down recruiting of new smokers. The romance goes away when
you have an image that is graphic and disturbing,” he said.
Russo’s firm held 6.6 million Altria shares as of Sept. 30,
according to Bloomberg data.  The FDA will consider requiring that the warning labels
include contact information for resources that may help smokers
quit, such as a toll-free telephone number, Hamburg said.  Tobacco Company Involvement  Altria’s Philip Morris USA of Richmond, Virginia, the
biggest U.S. cigarette maker, broke with rivals Reynolds and
 Lorillard Tobacco Co.  to back the law as a way to standardize
manufacturing requirements and spur development of less-harmful
tobacco products.  “Philip Morris USA has actively participated in the FDA’s
rulemaking and public comment processes and plans to do the same
on this proposal,” the company said today in an e-mail.  Robert Bannon, a spokesman for Greensboro, North Carolina-
based Lorillard, declined to comment on the proposed labels.
Reynolds, based in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, is reviewing
the FDA proposal,  David Howard , a company spokesman, said today
in an interview. He declined to comment on the specifics.  Altria declined 37 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $25.21 at 4:03
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Lorillard
fell 51 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $88.09 and Reynolds
dropped $1.46, or 2.2 percent, to $64.60.  Label Lawsuit  Reynolds and Lorillard are among tobacco companies seeking
to overturn the 2009 law’s graphic warning-label requirements.
Altria isn’t part of the lawsuit.  It’s unconstitutional for the government to “confiscate
the top 50 percent of both sides of cigarette packaging and
mandate shocking color graphics,” Reynolds and Lorillard said
in September in a brief filed with the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Sixth Circuit in Cincinnati.  More than 20 percent of adults in the U.S., or  46 million
people,  smoke cigarettes, according to the  Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention  in Atlanta. Smoking is the biggest cause
of preventable death in the U.S., killing about 443,000 people a
year, according to the  CDC .  The tobacco law required that the FDA create the  Center for
Tobacco Products  and the 12-member Tobacco Products Scientific
Advisory Committee. Tobacco companies must pay fees to the
agency to fund the regulation and product reviews.  The Health and Human Services Department will invest in
advertising campaigns to change “social norms around tobacco
use,”  Secretary Kathleen Sebelius  said at the briefing.  The major U.S. cigarette manufacturers spend about $12.5
billion a year, or more than $34 million daily, to lure and
retain smokers, increase consumption, and generate favorable
attitudes toward smoking and tobacco use, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Molly Peterson  in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 