-- Cisco Shortfall Shows Risks in Government Spending Cuts
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-11-11T21:33:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/cisco-s-gross-margin-misses-some-estimates-on-component-costs-shares-fall.html
Disappointing sales and profit
forecasts from  Cisco Systems Inc.  show cutbacks in government
spending that pose risks for companies that rely on the sector
for growth.  Governments in Europe, Japan and some U.S. states reduced
orders as their budgets came under pressure, said  John Chambers ,
chief executive officer of the world’s largest computer
networking-equipment maker. State government orders fell 48
percent in the last quarter from the previous period, he said.  “We believe the public sector business will continue to be
challenging for at least several quarters,” said Chambers on a
conference call yesterday. Demand from U.S. cable operators also
declined, though spending by large and mid-sized companies
remained solid, he said.  The challenges for Cisco, which gets about 22 percent of
its business from the public sector, may signal broader risks
for businesses that depend on government spending. Companies in
technology, construction and health care draw revenue from state
and local governments, which reduced their spending in the third
quarter and cut into U.S. economic growth.  Cisco, based in San Jose, California, said revenue in the
fiscal second quarter will be about $10.1 billion to $10.3
billion and earnings, excluding some costs, will be at most 35
cents a share. Analysts projected sales of $11.1 billion and
profit of 42 cents on average, according to  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg.  The  stock   plunged  $3.97, or 16 percent, to $20.52 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, the biggest drop
since July 1994. The shares have declined 14 percent this year.  Misread Demand  Cisco misread demand from some customers, Chambers said on
the conference call yesterday. Still, the majority of its
business remains in good shape, he said. Chambers said that the
slump doesn’t affect the company’s long-term growth prospects.  “I never want to let down our shareholders, even if I
believe it’s a short-term bump,” he said in an interview after
the call yesterday. “I like for the stock to go up all the
time. Obviously, we’ve got to get confidence back.”  Cisco’s first-quarter earnings, excluding some costs, were
42 cents a share, while sales climbed 19 percent to $10.8
billion.  Analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg predicted profit of 40
cents a share on sales of $10.7 billion.  Net income  rose 8 percent to $1.93 billion, or 34 cents, in
the period, which ended on Oct. 30. That compared with $1.79
billion, or 30 cents, a year earlier.  The report caps a quarter of earnings among corporate-
technology companies that suggest the economy is struggling to
recover quickly.  Juniper Networks Inc.  and International
Business Machines Corp. both slid after earnings reports.  Government Challenge  Cutbacks at the state and local level are starting to weigh
on companies doing business with those governments. The slowdown
in municipal and state expenditures is putting a bigger burden
on private industries and consumers to spend at a pace that
maintains the economic recovery.  Third-quarter growth got a lift from business investment on
equipment and software and federal government outlays, according
to Commerce Department figures last month. Still, the U.S.
economy may not be able to count on government spending much
longer as about 70 percent of President  Barack Obama ’s estimated
$814 billion stimulus package has been used, according to a
September White House  report .  Local governments have reduced  payrolls  the last seven
months, the longest streak since 1980 to 1981, to balance their
budgets as tax revenue shrinks. State and local tax revenue
won’t rebound to pre-financial crisis levels for another five
years, according to about half of the public-finance
professionals surveyed by RBC Capital Markets in a report
released Oct. 29.  Cisco Bellwether  Investors look to  Cisco  as a bellwether for the technology
industry because the company dominates the market for routers
and switches, products that direct the flow of Internet traffic.
Companies buy its switches for corporate networks, while phone
and Internet-service providers typically buy Cisco’s more-
expensive routers.  Chambers, 61, is expanding into more than 30 businesses in
a bid to reach a long-term goal of 12 percent to 17 percent in
annual sales  increases . He’s pushing the company into markets
such as smart grids, videoconferencing and home networking. By
promoting the TelePresence conferencing system and video cameras
such as the Flip, Cisco is trying to generate more Internet
traffic, increasing demand for its routers and switches.  Chambers said government demand varies by region. Spending
by the U.S. federal government and public agencies in emerging
markets remained buoyant, even as other entities held back.  “We’re trying to get ahead in terms of our projections”
for government spending, he said. “We were surprised at how
quickly that dropped off.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net ;
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  