-- Clement Says Canada Is in Process of Explaining Decision on Potash to BHP
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-11-10T19:47:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/clement-says-canada-explaining-potash-decision-to-bhp.html
Canadian Industry Minister  Tony Clement  said the government is explaining to BHP Billiton Ltd.
why it rejected the company’s $40 billion bid for Potash Corp.
of Saskatchewan Inc.  “We have a process that involves a statutory requirement
to explain our decision to them, so we’re in the process of
doing that,” Clement told reporters today in Peterborough,
Ontario. “They have a right to say what they think and that
process is ongoing,” he said, adding that BHP “absolutely”
demanded more details on his decision.  Clement rejected the offer from Melbourne-based  BHP , the
world’s largest mining company, on Nov. 3, saying the proposal
doesn’t provide a “net benefit” to Canada. Under Canadian law,
BHP has 30 days from the date of the ruling to appeal. Clement’s
decision was only the nation’s second rejection of a foreign
takeover in the past 25 years.  Clement said he hasn’t been made aware of other
governments’ concerns following the rejection, adding that the
U.S., U.K. and Australia have similar processes.  “This is a perfectly acceptable thing to do in world
commerce to have a law and apply the law properly,” he said. It
means “in many cases, you’re going to approve the bid, but in
some cases, you’re not going to approve the bid.”  Changes to Process  While the government may make changes to the foreign
investment  review process  in the Investment Canada Act, the need
to update the legislation isn’t linked to the BHP ruling,
Clement said.  “I want to distinguish between the BHP bid and how that
was done and the revisions to the act, because I think that the
process we used for BHP was a clean process and there were no
issues,” Clement said. “If there are better ways to do things
that can be more clear and better for protecting Canadian
interests, we’re always looking for ways to do that.”  Canada Pension Plan Investment Board Chief Executive
Officer  David Denison  said today in an interview that he would
support a move by Canada to review its foreign takeover rules.  “We’re encouraged by the government’s signal that they
intend to clarify the guidelines that they will use going
forward,” said Denison, who helps manage C$139 billion ($139
billion) in assets held by the country’s main public pension
plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Badertscher at 
 pbadertscher@bloomberg.net  