-- Collahuasi Can Meet Supply Commitments Amid Strike
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2010-11-10T22:05:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/collahuasi-says-shipments-can-continue-for-weeks-during-strike.html
Anglo American Plc  and  Xstrata Plc 
said shipments from their Collahuasi unit, the world’s fourth-
biggest copper mine, aren’t being affected as unionized workers
prolonged a strike for a sixth day.  "We are continuing to make our operations work normally,"
 Bernardita Fernandez , a spokeswoman for Collahuasi, said by
telephone yesterday. "Reports that operations are below normal
are incorrect. We can continue our shipments for various weeks."  Collahuasi is using non-union employees and contract
workers during the strike that began Nov. 5. The company likely
had ore stockpiled to be processed at its concentrator,
Macquarie Group Ltd. analysts led by London-based  Duncan Hobbs 
said in a report. Concern that the strike may affect output
helped send copper to a 28-month high yesterday.  Fernandez declined to give details of the company’s
contingency plans. The mine is operating at 50 percent of
capacity, Business News Americas reported yesterday, citing a
non-unionized worker that it didn’t identify.  “We have had normal, small failures that were not
attributed to the strike or the contingency plan," Fernandez
said by telephone today. "We are complying with our contracts.”  Potential production disruptions at Collahuasi will depend
how long the strike lasts, said  John MacKenzie , head of Anglo
American’s copper business.  ‘More Than Fair Offer’  “Production is continuing as we speak,” MacKenzie said in
an interview in Santiago today. “We’re obviously hopeful that a
resolution can be reached as soon as possible. I certainly
believe that the company has made a very, if not more than fair
offer to the union.”  The union plans to fine members who return to work during
the strike, according to a statement posted on its website. Wage
contract talks ended on Nov. 4 after workers rejected a proposal
that included a bonus of 11.5 million pesos ($24,096) and an
additional 2 million pesos of loans.  “The union assembly decided to fine any worker that
crosses the picket line,” it said in the statement. “If the
company thinks they can co-opt any workers, they are wrong.”  Workers March  Hundreds of unionized workers dressed in black marched
today in the city of Iquique, 185 kilometers (114 miles) from
the mine site. Leaders from Chile’s 21 unions that belong to the
national mining federation and account for 70 percent of the
country’s copper production were on site to support the march,
according to the statement.  The union leaders held meetings on how to negotiate with
foreign companies operating in the country, said Cristian
Arancibia, president of Chile’s FMC mining federation, an
umbrella group of mining unions.  “We’re going to unite the workers and look at everything
from health laws to altitude laws,” Arancibia said at a press
conference after the march, adding that more strikes could be
held across the country.  About 700 workers were gathered at a school in Iquique
yesterday, some cooking barbecues and playing music. Workers
saved money in preparation for the strike, said Manuel Munoz,
president of the union.  ‘Prepared’ for Strike  “We are prepared to keep up the strike for several days,
possibly longer,” Munoz said at an interview at the school.
“We’re willing to negotiate but they have to come to us.”  The mine, about 4,000 meters above sea level in the Chilean
Andes, produced 535,000 metric tons last year, or 3.5 percent of
global output, according to Standard Bank Plc. Its production is
only surpassed by  BHP Billiton Ltd.’s  Escondida, Freeport-
McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.’s Grasberg mine in Indonesia and
Codelco’s Norte division in Chile.  Anglo American and Xstrata each own 44 percent of
Collahuasi and a group led by Mitsui & Co. holds the rest.  Copper futures for delivery in December dropped 7.4 cents,
or 1.8 percent, to settle at $3.969 a pound at 1:23 p.m. on the
Comex in New York, the biggest loss since Oct. 27. The price
touched $4.0475 yesterday, the highest level since July 2, 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nathan Crooks  in Iquique, Chile at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  