-- Comcast Faces Government Questions on Online Video in NBC Universal Deal
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-11-10T20:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/comcast-faces-government-questions-on-online-video-in-nbc-deal.html
Comcast Corp. ’s merger with NBC
Universal is nearing the final stages of a federal review, with
U.S. officials considering whether to forbid the cable company
from withholding online video from competitors, analysts said.  Comcast executives met Nov. 5 and Nov. 8 with Federal
Communications Commission officials, including Chief of Staff
 Edward Lazarus , an adviser to FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski ,
and said the agency shouldn’t set rules for online video,
according to the company’s disclosure filings at the FCC.  Video viewed over the Internet, which may emerge as an
alternative to traditional monthly cable service, is “a big
issue” that makes the Comcast-NBC deal “a lightning rod,”
 Rebecca Arbogast , a Washington-based analyst with Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., said by e-mail today.  The FCC and Justice Department are weighing the proposed
$28 billion acquisition of the General Electric Co. unit. The
deal would give Comcast, the largest U.S. cable company, control
of the NBC television network, broadcast stations, cable
channels such as MSNBC and USA Network, a movie studio and a
share of the online site Hulu LLC.  Online Video ‘Highly Dynamic’  In their FCC meetings, Comcast executives described the
online video business as “nascent and highly dynamic” and
“disputed the need for any conditions,” Comcast said in a
 filing .  NBC broadcast programs available on the  nbc.com website  for
online viewing will continue to be available in that fashion,
Comcast told FCC officials, according to the filing.  “While Comcast has no plans to change current practices,
the dynamism of the online video sector makes it unwise to set
in stone any plans,” the filing said. “The new NBCU will need
the freedom to innovate.”  Issue Still Alive  Arbogast, the analyst, said Comcast and the government face
the challenge of anticipating how online video will grow.  “Comcast-NBCU will want the maximum freedom to figure out
how to monetize it and prevent it from cannibalizing its
subscription service,” Arbogast said, while the government will
want to make sure the online video market isn’t starved of
programming it needs to grow.  The discussions between Comcast and the FCC “suggest the
issue is still alive” but doesn’t necessarily indicate agency
staff will recommend restrictions,  Paul Gallant , a Washington-
based analyst for MF Global, said in an interview.  Regulatory Approval Near  The merger, proposed Dec. 3, 2009, might receive final
regulatory approval by the end of the year, Comcast Chief
Executive Officer  Brian Roberts  told investors Oct. 27.  Arbogast, in an Oct. 15 note to clients, said it is “most
likely” the government will scrutinize the deal into early
2011.  Jen Howard, a spokeswoman for the FCC, and  Sena Fitzmaurice,  a spokeswoman for Washington-based Comcast,
declined to comment.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, has
filed papers opposing the Comcast-NBC Universal combination as
it is currently proposed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net . 