-- Conflict of Interest Rules Target Mexico Financial Advisors Who Underwrite
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2010-11-10T06:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/conflict-of-interest-rules-target-mexico-financial-advisors-who-underwrite.html
Mexico plans to introduce rules next
year that will protect investors from conflicts of interest by
their financial advisers, said  Guillermo Babatz , president of
the National Banking and Securities Commission.  “The rules we have here are too general and vague,”
Babatz said in a Nov. 8 interview in Mexico City. “In the area
of investment advice it’s too hard to not have any conflict of
interest. We need to have solid management of those conflicts.”  The planned changes follow 16 months of studies whose
findings left  the commission  “unsettled,” Babatz, 41, said.
The probe showed banks often offered securities to individual
investors without disclosing their role as underwriters, he
said. The commission also found that private bankers and brokers
often failed to take into account their clients’ risk profiles
when offering them securities.  Regulators plan to begin discussing the new rules with
financial companies in the second quarter of 2011, he said.  “The advice being given is not adequate and the
recommendations that are made, from our point of view, are not
justified,” Babatz said.  Eduardo Kuri, a spokesman for the  Mexican Banking
Association  in Mexico City, declined to comment.  Record Fine  Under Babatz, the commission levied the largest fines in
its history. Controladora Comercial Mexicana SAB, a supermarket
operator, had to pay a fine of 49 million pesos ($4 million) for
failing to properly disclose its use of derivatives that led it
to file for bankruptcy this year. Grupo Industrial Saltillo SAB
was levied a 12 million-peso fine in September for infringing
derivatives rules.  The regulator is also looking into possible manipulation in
the 10-year Mexican government bond market, Babatz said. He
declined to elaborate because the probe hasn’t been completed.  “Not only do you have a problem with transparency
regarding conflicts of interest, but the necessary elements to
coax financial institutions to cooperate don’t exist,” said
Carlos Canfield, a business professor at the ITESM university in
Mexico State. “The rules exist, but they aren’t enough to
guarantee a competitive market for financial services.”  The regulator plans to release a report about their
investigation in December or early next year.  -- With assistance by  Crayton Harrison  and  Jonathan Roeder  in
Mexico City. Editors:  Adriana Arai ,  James Attwood   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andres R. Martinez  in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  