-- Copper Ranks First as Morgan Stanley Forecasts Rally
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2010-11-10T08:25:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/copper-ranks-first-as-morgan-stanley-s-richardson-forecasts-metals-rally.html
Copper will lead a rally in base
metals into 2011 as increased consumption cuts stockpiles and
weaker currencies spur investment demand for commodities,
according to  Morgan Stanley .  “There is a fundamental aspect to this rally in addition
to what’s happening to the U.S. dollar,”  Peter Richardson ,
chief metals economist at Morgan Stanley Australia Ltd., said in
an interview. “I rank copper first,” said Richardson, who’s
studied metals for almost 20 years. He also backed tin, which
touched a record yesterday, and nickel, up 32 percent this year.  Copper has surged this year, trading within 1 percent of a
record yesterday, as the global economy recovered from the worst
recession since World War II and the dollar fell. Refined-copper
output will lag behind demand next year for the first time since
2007, the International Copper Study Group has said.  Copper, used to make pipes and wires, has the “potential
to have a structural shortage of supply for longer than any of
the other metals,” Richardson said yesterday. There’s been
underinvestment in mine capacity over the past decade and a
“significant problem” of declining ore quality, he said.  Three-month copper futures on the London Metal Exchange
traded at $8,788 a metric ton at 4:22 p.m. in Singapore compared
with the all-time high of $8,940, set in 2008. Futures in New
York were at $3.9995 per pound, 18 percent higher this year.  Increased Forecasts  Morgan Stanley joined Goldman Sachs Group Inc. last month
in raising its 2011 price target for copper by 5 percent to
$3.60 a pound and the 2012 forecast by 10 percent to $3.80 a
pound on “resilient Chinese demand” and a slumping dollar.
Goldman Sachs expects copper to trade at $11,000 a ton in a year.  The  weakening dollar , driven by the Federal Reserve’s
program of additional bond buying, or quantitative easing, has
helped spur investor demand for commodities, including metals,
according to Everbright Securities Co. analyst  Wang Qianming .  The  CRB commodities index  has rallied for 11 weeks, the
longest streak since 1977, since Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
indicated in August he was considering further easing. The
Dollar Index has lost 13 percent since June 7, this year’s peak.  Global manufacturing indexes last month also underpin
stronger commodity prices, with both China and the U.S.
“surprising to the upside,” Richardson said. “ The  strength
of the rally  reflects real growth.”  Factory output in the U.S. expanded at the fastest pace in
five months in October, while manufacturing in China grew at the
fastest pace in six months the same month, data on Nov. 1 showed.
China and the U.S. are the world’s two biggest copper consumers.  German Growth  In Germany, Europe’s largest economy, the manufacturing
gauge jumped to 56.6 from 55.1 in the previous month, while
India’s factory output in October rose to 57.2 from 55.1 the
previous month.  “What has been really quite striking has been Germany and
India, so we’re not just talking about a rebound in the U.S. or
China, but quite a broad-based picture of strength in
manufacturing and industrial production,” he said.  Copper’s “supply-demand deficits look set to grow on
emerging-market demand strength and improving demand from
developed economies,” Goldman’s analysts including  Jeffrey Currie  wrote in a note yesterday. “We do not believe that the
market is fully pricing these shortages.”  China’s demand has been slowed by higher prices as rising
stockpiles, falling premiums, rising treatment fees and
increasing scrap supply added to signs of slowing consumption,
according to Ren Gang, an analyst at Maike Futures Co.  “At $4 copper, we’re getting quite concerned about demand
destruction,” Richardson said. “If you want to affect demand
quickly you pull out of the market and Chinese traders are the
best there are at that.”  Tin futures in London, which reached an all-time high of
$27,500 a ton yesterday, traded today at $27,200. The nickel
contract was at $24,400 a ton.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Glenys Sim  in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net  