-- Cordero Says Mexico Growth Solid Amid Fed's `Bad News' to Emerging Markets
-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2010-11-10T23:13:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/cordero-says-stronger-peso-may-be-problem-even-as-mexican-exports-surging.html
Mexican Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said the country’s recovery is “solid” even as he
warned the U.S. Federal Reserve’s decision to pump $600 billion
into its economy may be “bad news” for emerging markets.  “Our exports are showing a much more vigorous recovery
than the domestic sector,” Cordero said during Bloomberg’s
Mexico  Economic Summit  in Mexico City today.  Bank lending and consumer demand are rebounding and the
wage gap between Mexico and China is narrowing, Cordero said.  Mexico’s economy, which the central bank forecasts will
grow 5 percent this year on the back of exports, may get a boost
when consumer spending rebounds in the $1.09 trillion economy.
The country is recovering from last year’s 6.5 percent
contraction, the steepest since the 1930s.  The peso has gained 7.1 percent against the U.S. dollar
this year, in part because of increased capital flows from
foreign investors into Mexico.  The government is monitoring the inflows “very, very
carefully,” Cordero said. It has no plans to take steps to stem
gains in the peso, he said.  “The inflows could be bad news because it represents an
appreciation of our currency,” Cordero, 42, said in an
interview at the same event.  Brazil, Thailand  Efforts by some countries to devalue their currencies are a
short-term solution and there is no evidence that trying to
limit capital inflows is effective in preventing currency
appreciation, he said.  Cordero said he was comfortable with “whatever exchange
rate the market decides” for the peso.  The Federal Reserve agreed last week to buy an additional
$600 billion of Treasuries through June to help boost economic
growth.  Brazil, Thailand and Colombia are among nations that have
imposed taxes on foreign inflows, ended tax exemptions for
foreigners or stepped up purchases in the spot currency markets
as near-zero interest rates in the U.S. and other developed
economies prompt investors to seek higher returns elsewhere.  Mexican exports, buoyed by a 44 percent rise in auto sales
abroad, climbed 21 percent in September from a year earlier. The
central bank forecasts the economy will grow 3.2 percent to 4.2
percent in 2011.  ‘Vigorous Recovery’  “Our exports are showing a much more vigorous recovery
than the domestic sector,” Cordero said.  Unlike other regional economies where domestic demand is
booming, private consumption in Mexico remains below pre-crisis
levels,  Gray Newman , chief Latin America economist at Morgan
Stanley in New York, said in a Nov. 4 interview.  The sluggish recovery in consumer demand reflects the
country’s deteriorating terms of trade, which are running below
their five-year average before the global financial crisis,
Morgan Stanley said in a Nov. 8 report. In contrast, income from
exports in commodity producers like Chile and Peru has rebounded
to near all-time highs since the end of the global recession.  The peso rose 0.7 percent to 12.2189 per dollar as of 5
p.m. in New York.  Consumer confidence fell to 89.2 in October from 91.6 in
September. The indicator was 105.6 in December 2007.
Unemployment rose to 5.7 percent in September, higher than the
3.4 percent registered in December 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan J. Levin  in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  