-- Corn Drops as China Will Reduce Imports as Farmers Collect Record Harvest
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2010-11-10T21:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/corn-drops-as-china-will-reduce-imports-as-farmers-collect-record-harvest.html
Corn fell the most in more than two
weeks in Chicago on speculation that rising output in China, the
world’s second-largest consumer, will reduce demand for imports
from the U.S.  China may have harvested a record 180 million metric tons
this year, up from 166 million last year, Caijing Business &
Finance Review magazine reported on its website, citing an
unidentified company executive. Last year, China was a net
importer of corn for the first time since 1996. The government
has been selling grain from state-owned inventories to cool the
rally in domestic prices.  “Rising China-crop forecasts are a surprise because people
have been expecting increased import demand,” said Greg Grow,
the director of agribusiness for Archer Financial Services Inc.
in Chicago. “People are more concerned that China will not buy
U.S. corn later this year.”  Corn futures for March delivery fell 9.25 cents, or 1.6
percent, to close at $5.81 a bushel at 1:15 a.m. on the Chicago
Board of Trade, the biggest drop since Oct. 21. Before today,
the price surged 58 percent since the end of June, touching a
two-year high of $6.175 yesterday, after adverse weather reduced
the size of the U.S. crop.  Trading volume reached a record 762,387 futures contracts
yesterday in Chicago, and open interest was 1.677 million
contracts, the most ever, according to CME Group Inc., the owner
of the CBOT.  China Crop Forecast  Chinese farmers collected 154.56 million tons this year, up
from an estimated 144.374 million last year, according to an
estimate by Geneva-based SGS SA for Bloomberg that was based on
interviews with growers during the harvest in September and
October. Farmers planted more and favorable weather boosted
yields, the survey showed. Chinese corn prices have risen 30
percent in the past year.  Yesterday, the U.S. Department of Agriculture said China
produced 168 million tons, up from last month’s estimate of 166
million. The USDA expects consumption to expand by 1.9 percent
in China to 162 million tons in the year from Oct. 1.  Today’s price drop also was fueled by speculators reducing
their bets on further rallies, Grow said. The close below the
Nov. 8 low, after reaching a new high earlier in the day,
created a “sell” signal for some traders who monitor
historical patterns, he said.  “The reversal yesterday on record volume was a sign of at
least a near-term peak,” Grow said. “The market needs to
consolidate recent gains.”  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $48.6 billion in
2009, government figures show, followed by soybeans at $31.8
billion. The U.S. is the world’s largest grower, exporter and
consumer of corn.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 