-- Cotton Falls by Exchange Limit on Record Volume on Bets China Use May Wane
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2010-11-10T21:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/cotton-futures-fall-from-record-on-signs-china-s-demand-trading-may-ebb.html
Cotton futures plunged the most
allowed by ICE Futures U.S. as trading surged to a record amid
signs that demand may slow in China, the world’s biggest user.  In New York, cotton futures for March delivery tumbled the
exchange maximum of 6 cents, or 4.1 percent, to settle at
$1.4111 a pound at 3:05 p.m. Earlier, the price rose to $1.5195,
the highest level in 140 years of trading. ICE said estimated
volume for all contracts was 100,270, an all-time high.  China’s central bank raised lenders’ reserve requirements
as October’s larger-than-forecast $27.1 billion trade surplus
threatened to accelerate inflation. Excessive speculation has
spurred cotton trading on the Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange, said
 Zhou Wangjun , the deputy director of pricing at the National
Development and Reform Commission.  “The Chinese government is actively trying to squash
excess speculation,” said  Andy Ryan , a senior risk-management
consultant at FCStone Fibers & Textiles in Nashville, Tennessee.
“There’s a little loss of momentum without China going crazy.”  In the past 12 months, cotton prices have more than
doubled, reaching an all-time high for seven straight sessions.  “The fundamentals are still there,” said  Claudio Oliveira , the head of trading at Castlestone Management Ltd. in
London. “The USDA report was pretty bullish.”  Prices may rise as high as $2 in one to three months,
Oliveira said.  Wide Swings  Cotton plunged by the exchange limit at 10:26 a.m., erasing
a gain of as much as 3.3 percent. The price rallied to trade
little changed about an hour later. Around 12:50 p.m., the fiber
tumbled 6 cents again.  The dollar rose for the fourth session against a basket of
major currencies, eroding the investment appeal of raw
materials.  “The news out of China and the  dollar  is just kind of
weighing on commodities and cotton in general,” Ryan of FCStone
said.  Cotton futures in Zhengzhou advanced to a record for a
fourth straight session, boosting costs for textile makers.  The previous ICE record for volume was 85,945 contracts in
February 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 