-- Covanta Plans Debt as Junk Yields Match ‘05 Low: New Issue Alert
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-11-10T10:45:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/covanta-plans-debt-as-junk-yields-at-lowest-in-five-years-new-issue-alert.html
Covanta Holding Corp. , the developer
of waste-to-energy plants, is marketing debt after high-yield,
high-risk company borrowing costs fell to the lowest in more
than five years.  Covanta plans to sell $400 million of senior notes maturing
in 2020, it said yesterday in a regulatory filing. Proceeds may
be used to finance tender offers for outstanding debt and for
general corporate purposes, according to the filing.  Corporate bond issuance yesterday of $8.85 billion,
including a $1.9 billion sale from  Time Warner Cable Inc. ,
compares with $14.2 billion of volume on Nov. 8, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales on Nov. 1 and 2 totaled $6.35
billion, Bloomberg data show.  “You’ll see a similar pattern next week when you have a
very busy beginning of the week,” said  Andrew Karp , head of
investment-grade debt syndicate for the Americas at Bank of
America Corp. “I expect volumes will be similar to this. As we
go into Thanksgiving week, things start to slow down.”  Sales of high-yield, or junk, debt are at a record this
year, as borrowing costs fall. The average yield on junk debt
tumbled to 7.55 percent yesterday, the lowest since March 11,
2005, when it was 7.53 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s U.S. High Yield Master II Index. The extra yield
investors demand to own junk bonds instead of Treasuries fell
12 basis points to 564 basis points, index data show.  Spreads on investment-grade corporate bonds narrowed one
basis point yesterday to 174 basis points, while absolute yields
rose to 3.67 percent from 3.59 percent, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Master Index.  “If rates and spreads stay where they are, I think we’ll
continue to see volume into the second week of December,” Karp
said.  The following is a description of at least $11.9 billion of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  Investment Grade  BBVA BANCO CONTINENTAL SA plans to sell 10-year notes in
dollars, according to people familiar with the transaction. The
Peruvian bank may sell the debt to yield about 287.5 basis
points more than U.S. Treasuries, said one of the people, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. Credit
Suisse Group AG and Deutsche Bank AG are managing the sale with
BBVA, the people said. The notes will be issued through
Continental Senior Trustees (Cayman) Ltd.  FIRST GULF BANK PJSC plans to sell five-year dollar-
denominated bonds that may yield between 3.25 percent and 3.5
percent, said three people familiar with the transaction, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. BNP Paribas
SA, Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc and
National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC are arranging meetings with
investors, two people said on Nov. 1. The Abu Dhabi-based lender
is rated A2 by Moody’s.  VNESHECONOMBANK  plans to sell seven-year dollar bonds that
may be priced to yield about 5.4 percent and 15-year debt that
may yield about 7 percent, said a banker with knowledge of the
transaction, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set. The Russian bank known as VEB is rated Baa1 by Moody’s and
BBB at S&P.  INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORP., the private-sector arm of the
World Bank, plans to sell U.S. dollar-denominated bonds in a
benchmark offering, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. The Washington-based organization hired Deutsche
Bank AG, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and UBS AG to manage
the sale, said the person, who declined to be identified because
terms aren’t set. Benchmark offerings are typically at least
$500 million.  TRANSNET LTD., South Africa’s state-owned ports, rail and
pipeline operator, said it may sell $1 billion worth of bonds in
international markets to pay for expansion. Transnet has 35.2
billion rand ($5 billion) of debt outstanding.  Not Rated  ODEBRECHT DRILLING plans to sell $1.5 billion of notes
denominated in U.S. dollars, according to a person familiar with
the transaction. The debt may yield 6.5 percent, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  CYRELA BRAZIL REALTY SA EMPREENDIMENTOS E PARTICIPACOES ,
Brazil’s biggest homebuilder, hired Banco do Brasil SA, Credit
Suisse Group AG, Itau Unibanco Holding SA and Morgan Stanley to
arrange bond investor meetings, according to a person familiar
with the matter. Cyrela will meet with investors in Asia, Europe
and the U.S., said the person, who declined to be identified
because the conversations are private.  STERICYCLE INC. plans to issue $175 million of seven-year,
3.89 percent notes and $225 million of 10-year, 4.47 percent
debt after receiving informal commitments from 22 institutional
investors to buy the securities, it said in a statement
distributed by Business Wire.  High Yield  CHINA FORESTRY HOLDINGS CO. plans to sell bonds denominated
in U.S. dollars, according to a person familiar with the matter.
The company started marketing the notes to yield in the high 7
percent area, said the person, who asked not to be identified,
because the details are private. Deutsche Bank AG, Standard
Chartered Plc and UBS AG are managing the sale of debt due 2015,
China Forestry said in a statement to the Hong Kong stock
exchange on Nov. 3.  COVANTA HOLDING CORP., the developer of waste-to-energy
plants, plans to sell $400 million of senior notes maturing in
2020, it said in a Nov. 9 regulatory filing. Proceeds may be
used to finance tender offers for outstanding debt and for
general corporate purposes, according to the filing.  GLOBAL CROSSING LTD. plans to sell $150 million of nine-
year notes, according to a person familiar with the offering.
The debt may yield about 8.5 percent, said the person, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. The Florham
Park, New Jersey-based telecommunications provider will use
proceeds to refinance 5 percent convertible bonds due 2011, the
company said in a statement.  HCA INC., the hospital chain acquired four years ago in a
$33 billion leveraged buyout, plans to sell $1.53 billion of
senior unsecured notes due in 2021, according to a person
familiar with the transaction. The debt may yield about 7.75
percent, said the person, who declined to be identified as terms
aren’t set. The bonds may be sold through the Nashville,
Tennessee-based company’s HCA Holdings Inc. unit, according to a
statement distributed by Business Wire. Proceeds may be used to
fund a dividend for the company’s private-equity owners, the
statement said.  MYLAN INC ., a generic-drug maker, plans to sell $800
million of senior notes maturing in 2018 and 2022, it said in a
statement distributed by PR Newswire. Proceeds from the private
placement of debt will be used to prepay a portion of the
company’s outstanding term loans, according to the statement.  STAR GAS PARTNERS LP, a distributor of home heating oil and
propane, plans to sell $125 million of senior notes maturing in
2017, the company said in a statement distributed by Globe
Newswire. Proceeds will be used to repurchase about $82.5
million of outstanding 10.25 percent notes due in 2013 and for
general partnership purposes, according to the statement.  UNIVISION COMMUNICATIONS INC., the Spanish-language media
company taken private in 2007, may sell $500 million of 10.5-
year notes, according to a person familiar with the offering,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  PETCO ANIMAL SUPPLIES INC.  plans to sell $625 million of
senior unsecured notes, according to Standard & Poor’s. Proceeds
may be used along with a $1.1 billion term loan to refinance
debt and pay a $700 million dividend, S&P said in a Nov. 8
statement. S&P rated the notes CCC+.  CINCINNATI BELL INC.  said it plans to offer an additional
$275 million in aggregate principal amount of its 8.375 percent
senior notes due 2020, according to a Nov. 8 statement
distributed by Business Wire.  BERRY PLASTICS CORP., the container maker owned by Apollo
Global Management LLC and Graham Partners Inc., may sell $800
million of 10-year notes, according to a person familiar with
the offering. The debt may yield 9.5 percent to 9.75 percent,
said the person, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set. Proceeds may be used to refinance the company’s
fixed-rate notes due in 2014, the person said.  PRECISION DRILLING CORP., an oilfield drilling and energy-
service provider, plans to sell $550 million of senior unsecured
notes due in 2020, according to a company statement distributed
by Marketwire. Proceeds may be used, along with cash on hand, to
repay about $581 million of debt outstanding under the company’s
credit facilities, according to the statement.  ALLEN SYSTEMS GROUP INC., a closely held business-software
company, may sell $300 million of six-year notes, according to a
person familiar with the offering. Proceeds will be used to
refinance debt and pay a dividend, said the person, who declined
to be identified because terms aren’t set.  GENESIS ENERGY LP , the Houston-based crude-oil-distribution
partnership, plans to sell $200 million of eight-year notes to
help pay for the purchase of a 50 percent equity interest in
Cameron Highway Oil Pipeline Co., according to a statement
distributed by Business Wire. Genesis Energy will redeem the
notes if the acquisition isn’t completed, the company said in
the statement.  AFFINITY GROUP INC. plans to sell $325 million of six-year
notes, according to a person familiar with the offering.
Proceeds may be used to repay debt, said the person, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  CALFRAC WELL SERVICES LTD., an oilfield-services provider,
plans to sell $400 million of senior notes due in 2020,
according to a statement distributed by CNW Group. Proceeds may
be used to repay debt, including to fund a tender offer for the
company’s 7.75 percent senior notes due in 2015, and for general
corporate purposes, the Calgary-based company said. The notes
may be issued through the company’s Calfrac Holdings LP unit,
the statement said.  BURLINGTON COAT FACTORY WAREHOUSE CORP., the Bain Capital
LLC-owned purveyor of discount apparel, plans to sell $500
million of eight-year senior unsecured notes to refinance high-
coupon debt and fund a dividend. Proceeds may be used to repay
the company’s existing term loan facility, fund a tender offer
for outstanding debt and pay a dividend to equity holders, the
company said in a Nov. 3 statement distributed by Business Wire.  MERCER INTERNATIONAL INC., a Vancouver-based pulp
manufacturer, plans to sell $300 million of senior notes, the
company said in a Nov. 2 statement distributed by Globe
Newswire. Proceeds will be used to help tender for the company’s
outstanding 9.25 percent senior debt maturing in 2013, according
to the statement.  PT ENERGI MEGA PERSADA , Indonesia’s second-biggest listed
oil company, hired Nomura Holdings Inc. to help it with a dollar
bond sale, according to a person familiar with the matter who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  SI ORGANIZATION INC., the Lockheed Martin Corp. unit
formerly known as Enterprise Integration Group, may sell $175
million of senior subordinated notes, according to Standard &
Poor’s. Proceeds may be used with $340 million of bank debt and
$370 million of new common stock to pay for its acquisition by
Veritas Capital, S&P said.  TRANSDIGM GROUP INC., the aircraft-components manufacturer
that’s buying rival supplier McKechnie Aerospace Holdings Inc.,
plans to sell $780 million of senior subordinated notes to help
fund the acquisition, the Cleveland-based company said in a
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company
is also planning a $900 million term loan and a $300 million
revolving credit line, according to the filing. The notes were
rated B3 by Moody’s.  WII COMPONENTS INC., the manufacturer of wood cabinet doors
owned by Behrman Capital LP, plans to sell $115 million of
senior secured five-year notes, the company said in an Oct. 25
statement distributed by Business Wire. The notes may be used to
help fund a tender for outstanding 10 percent senior securities
due 2012, according to the statement. S&P assigned the debt a
grade of B-, it said in a statement.  DUNKIN’ BRANDS INC., owner of Dunkin’ Donuts and Baskin-
Robbins restaurants, plans to sell $625 million of senior notes
and obtain a $1.35 billion senior credit line to repay
securitized debt and help fund a dividend, the company said in
an Oct. 25 statement distributed by Business Wire. The notes
will be issued through Dunkin’ Finance Corp., according to the
statement. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG will manage
the bond sale, according to a person familiar with the
negotiations, who declined to be identified because the terms
are private.  Offerings in Pipeline  YUZHOU PROPERTIES CO.  plans to sell bonds denominated in
U.S. dollars, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. Bank of China Ltd., Nomura Holdings Inc. and Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc are arranging meetings with investors
in Asia, Europe and the U.S., said the person, who asked not to
be identified because the details are private.  PERU filed a registration statement with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission on Nov. 8 to offer dollar-
denominated bonds.  JORDAN is selling $750 million of five-year bonds that will
be priced to yield 4.125 percent, according to two people with
knowledge of the sale. Arab Bank Plc, Credit Suisse Group AG,
HSBC Holdings Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are managing the
sale.  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. , the bailed-out insurer,
plans to raise money in a debt sale as the company moves toward
independence from the U.S. government, it said in a regulatory
filing. “AIG intends to re-access the long-term debt markets in
the fourth quarter of 2010,” it said in the filing.  PTT EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION PCL, Thailand’s only listed
oil and gas explorer, plans to sell bonds denominated in U.S.
dollars, according to a person familiar with the transaction.
PTT Exploration hired Barclays Plc to manage the sale, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.
Barclays is arranging a U.S. dollar-denominated medium-term note
program for the company, the person said.  INTERNATIONAL PETROLEUM INVESTMENT CO. plans to meet bond
investors in the United Arab Emirates, according to two people
with knowledge of the marketing. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Bank
of America Corp., HSBC Holdings Plc, National Bank of Abu Dhabi,
Standard Chartered Bank and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc are
arranging the meetings, said the people, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  QATAR NATIONAL BANK may sell five-year dollar-denominated
bonds, according to two people with knowledge of the
transaction. The debt may yield in the 200 basis-point area more
than the benchmark mid-swap rate, said the people, who declined
to be identified because terms aren’t set. Barclays Capital, BNP
Paribas SA, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Standard Chartered Bank
will manage the issue with QNB Capital, the people said.  PTA BANK , or Eastern and Southern African Trade and
Development Bank, hired HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard Bank
Group Ltd. to arrange bond investor meetings in Europe and Asia,
according to two people with knowledge of the sale. The meetings
will be held in Hong Kong, Singapore, Zurich, Geneva and London,
said the people, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set. The company may sell dollar bonds after the
meetings, the people said.  MAQUINARIA ESPECIALIZADA MXO TRUST , a special-purpose
company expected to provide construction machinery services to
Corporacion GEO SAB de CV, hired Banco Santander SA to arrange
bond investor meetings, according to a person with knowledge of
the sale. A dollar bond sale may follow the meetings, to be held
in London, Boston, New York and Los Angeles, said the person,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  CREDIT BANK OF MOSCOW plans to sell five-year dollar bonds,
according to a person familiar with the transaction. The sale of
Reg S securities is being arranged by Commerzbank AG, ING Groep
NV and Raiffeisen Bank International, the banker said.  DOHA BANK QSC, Qatar’s third-largest bank, hired Morgan
Stanley and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to manage a planned $500
million bond sale, its chief executive officer said. The
offering, announced on the Qatar Exchange website, will be
marketed to investors in the U.S., Europe and the Middle East,
 Raghavan Seetharaman  said in an Oct. 20 telephone interview.  BELARUS may sell debt in the U.S. and Asia, according to
Finance Minister Andrei Kharkovets. “We will undoubtedly enter
the Asian and the American markets,” Kharkovets said in an Oct.
15 interview in Moscow, declining to comment on the timing of
possible sales.  GEORGIAN RAILWAY LLC, the former Soviet republic’s state-
owned rail company, is preparing a bond roadshow in the U.S.,
Giorgi Gagnidze, the company’s financial director, said in
comments broadcast on Rustavi-2 television.  ICICI BANK LTD., India’s second-largest lender, hired
Barclays Capital, Citigroup Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG to sell as
much as $1 billion of bonds with maturities between five and 10
years, according to three people familiar with the offering.
India’s second-biggest lender is rated Ba1 by Moody’s and BBB-by
S&P.  IRVING PLACE CAPITAL may issue $250 million of senior
secured notes to help pay for its leveraged buyout of Thermadyne
Holdings Corp. and refinance the company’s debt, Thermadyne
Chief Financial Officer Steven Schumm said in an Oct. 5
interview. The company will also arrange a $60 million asset-
based revolving credit line. Jefferies Group Inc. and Royal Bank
of Canada will manage the sale of six-year bonds, Schumm said.  AL BARAKA BANK EGYPT ESC, a unit of Bahrain-based  Albaraka
Banking Group , may sell dollar-denominated Islamic bonds in the
second half of 2011, the bank’s chairman said Sept. 29. The bank
has not decided on the size of the bond, he said.  TURKIYE IS BANKASI AS  hired JPMorgan Chase & Co., the Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc, Standard Bank Plc and Standard Chartered
to help find buyers for a planned bond sale during meetings in
the U.S. and Europe. Isbank made the announcement to the
Istanbul Stock Exchange after the market regulator approved a
sale of 1.45 billion liras ($1.03 billion) of bonds by the bank.
Isbank said the sale will be in dollars.  AEGIS LTD., an outsourcing unit of Essar Group, may sell
the first non-convertible dollar bonds from an Indian
information technology company. The company, which bought
PeopleSupport Inc. in 2008, may sell its bonds as part of a
financing package that would include a loan of as much as $350
million to consolidate debt, Chief Financial Officer C.M. Sharma
said.  GATX CORP ., a Chicago-based company that leases railroad
cars and other equipment, filed a shelf registration with the
Securities and Exchange Commission to sell debt securities and
pass-through certificates. The debt securities may be senior or
subordinated, according to the filing.  JSW STEEL LTD , India’s third-largest steelmaker, plans to
sell dollar bonds for the first time in three years and as
rupee-denominated finance costs rise. JSW has applied for credit
ratings before a possible offshore bond sale to help build a 200
billion rupee ($4.3 billion) steel and power plant in West
Bengal, Chief Financial Officer  Seshagiri Rao  said.  ARGENTINA may sell $1 billion of bonds due in 2017, El
Cronista newspaper reported, without saying how it obtained the
information. The government is also planning to offer an
exchange for dollar bonds due in 2011 and 2012, the Buenos
Aires-based publication said.  RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORP., India’s state-owned lender to
power projects, may sell as much as $300 million of bonds in
U.S. dollars, Finance Director  Hari Das Khunteta  said in a
telephone interview. Rural Electrification plans to raise $500
million from debt sales in the year ending March 31, he had said
on April 16.  CZECH REPUBLIC plans to sell as much as $2 billion of
dollar bonds to diversify from koruna and euro debt,  Eduard Janota , former finance minister, said in an interview for Mlada
Fronta Dnes  newspaper .  POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN INC. , the world’s
largest fertilizer company by capacity, filed a registration
statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for
$2 billion of debt securities.  INDONESIA plans to name three banks to help it sell about
$650 million of Islamic bonds,  Dahlan Siamat , director for
Islamic financing at the finance ministry, said in a telephone
interview in Jakarta. The government sold its first
international Islamic dollar bonds in April 2009.  URUGUAY may sell as much as $1 billion of bonds in 2011,
including $500 million of dollar-denominated debt,  Carlos Steneri , director of public credit at Uruguay’s Ministry of
Economy and Finance, said June 3 at a Latin Finance conference
in London. The dollar-denominated bonds may have a maturity of
20 years or more, Steneri said.  MALAYSIA plans to raise about $1 billion from its first
sale of conventional dollar bonds in eight years after drawing
bids for five times the Islamic debt it offered, a finance
ministry official said. The government may hire banks including
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and HSBC Holdings Plc to arrange the
sale by Sept. 30, said the official, who declined to be named as
the discussions are private. Malaysia raised $1.25 billion from
a Shariah-compliant dollar bond on May 27. Malaysia is rated A3
by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  GHANA is considering selling its second dollar bond in 2011
to tap investor demand as the start-up of oil production boosts
economic growth and narrows the budget deficit, Deputy Finance
Minister  Fifi Kwetey  said. The government was considering a
“no-deal roadshow” to gauge international investors’ appetite,
Kwetey said in a May 26 interview in Abidjan. Ghana sold its
first global bond in 2007, raising $750 million to help fund the
construction of roads and power plants.  ANGOLA received credit ratings from Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch
Ratings that put it on par with Nigeria, Lebanon and Belarus,
and paved the way for a planned sale of international bonds. The
southern African nation’s creditworthiness was rated at B+ by
S&P and Fitch, four levels below investment grade. Moody’s
assigned an equivalent ranking of B1.  MONGOLIA plans to raise $500 million selling bonds in 2010
and the remainder of a planned $1.2 billion program will be sold
according to market conditions,  Batbayar Balgan , director
general of the financial and economic policy department of
Mongolia, said at a forum in Ulan Bator on June 16. The
government scaled back its plans for global bond sales after
Europe’s debt crisis drove up borrowing costs. Investment banks
are advising Mongolia to issue debt with maturities of 5 years
to 10 years, Finance Minister Sangajav Bayartsogt said in a Feb.
9 interview. The securities may yield 8 percent to 11 percent,
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 