-- Oil Trades Below $87 as Gasoline Demand Slides, Dollar Climbs
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2010-11-10T01:50:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/crude-oil-falls-a-second-day-as-u-s-gasoline-demand-drops-dollar-gains.html
Oil traded below $87 a barrel after
falling from a two-year high as a report showed that U.S.
gasoline demand dropped to a six-week low and the dollar
strengthened against the euro, curbing demand for raw materials.  Futures yesterday slipped for the first time in seven days
after the euro weakened amid concern some governments in Europe
may struggle to pay their debt. U.S. motorists bought an average
8.99 million barrels of gasoline a day in the week ended Nov. 5,
a third week of declines, MasterCard Inc. said in its
SpendingPulse report.  “The market is buying dollars and that’s having an adverse
affect on commodities,” said  Jonathan Barratt , managing
director of Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney. “There’s
serious feeling towards a stronger dollar. It could be Europe
and also the fact that people are concerned that the economy is
not as strong as it should be.”  The December contract was at $86.81 a barrel, up 9 cents,
in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange at
9:47 a.m. Singapore time. Earlier, it decreased as much as 42
cents, or 0.5 percent, to $86.30. Yesterday, it lost 34 cents to
settle at $86.72. Prices are up 9.2 percent this year.  Oil settled at $87.06 a barrel on Nov. 8, the highest price
since Oct. 9, 2008, after a six-day rally that matched the
longest winning streak since April.  The dollar traded at $1.390 per euro after advancing 1.1
percent yesterday, its third day of gains.  Fuel Supplies  U.S. crude inventories plunged 7.4 million barrels last
week, the most since September 2008, according to the American
Petroleum Institute. An Energy Department report today will
probably show that  supplies increased  1.5 million barrels,
according to analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  Distillate stockpiles, including heating oil and diesel,
slid 3.99 million barrels last week, the API said. The Energy
Department report  may show  they fell 2 million barrels,
according to the Bloomberg News survey.  Gasoline inventories dropped 3.45 million barrels, the API
said. The department is  projected  to report a 1 million-barrel
decline, the survey shows.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the department
for its weekly survey.  Increased Forecast  The department lifted its crude oil price forecast for 2011
to an average $85.17 a barrel from $83, according to its monthly
Short-Term Energy Outlook, released yesterday. It also boosted
its fourth-quarter 2011 forecast by $2 from a month ago to $87 a
barrel “as U.S. and global economic conditions improve.”  The International Energy Agency in Paris forecast yesterday
that China will drive a surge in world energy demand over the
next quarter century, as straining supply enhances the market
share of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and
growing coal use undermines efforts to contain global warming.  Brent crude for December settlement gained 40 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $88.37 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
in London. Yesterday, it fell 49 cents to $87.97.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jane Lee in Kuala Lumpur at 
 jalee@bloomberg.net  