-- Currency War Hits Mexico as Carstens Signals Rate Cuts
-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2010-11-10T17:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/currency-war-spreading-to-mexico-as-carstens-signals-lower-rates-next-year.html
The peso’s biggest rally on record
may prompt Mexico’s central bank to cut interest rates next year
to boost exports after other Latin American policy makers raised
borrowing costs to cool their economies.  Governor  Agustin Carstens  signaled during a Nov. 2 meeting
with economists in New York that he would consider cutting rates
should the peso keep gaining, according to analysts from
Barclays Capital, Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG who attended the
meeting. The bank may lower  borrowing costs  a quarter percentage
point to 4.25 percent by March, Mexican futures trading show.  Foreign investment in short-term Mexican notes known as
Cetes has risen more than six-fold since the end of 2009 as
investors looked for alternatives to near-zero interest rates in
the U.S. and Europe. Inflows almost doubled last month to 70.4
billion pesos ($5.78 billion) as international investors
anticipated the Federal Reserve would pump additional liquidity
into the U.S. economy. China said this week the Fed’s decision
to purchase $600 billion in U.S. Treasuries threatens to
“shock” emerging markets with “hot money.”  “Mexico runs the risk of being slammed by the markets,”
said  Alonso Cervera , a Latin American economist at Credit Suisse
Group in Mexico City who attended the meeting with Carstens in
New York. “If there’s a rally in the peso, we shouldn’t be
surprised if they choose to cut rates.”  Defending Exports  In seeking to curb the peso’s 7.7 percent advance against
the dollar over the past 10 weeks with a rate cut, Carstens
would be defending his country’s exports from what Brazilian
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  has called a global “currency
war,” said  Jimena Zuniga , an economist at Barclays.  “If the central bank perceives it is left alone in the
currency war and the peso is losing competitiveness, then the
central bank might consider measures including using monetary
policy to discourage inflows,” said Zuniga, who was at the New
York meeting with Carstens.  The yield on Mexico’s 9 percent bond due in 2012 dropped
10 basis points the day after Carstens’ meetings with economists
and investors.  Still, Standard & Poor’s doesn’t see changes in Mexican
interest rates next year,  Lisa Schineller , director for Latin
America, said at the Bloomberg Mexico Economic Summit today in
Mexico City.  Sergio Luna , chief economist for Citigroup Inc.’s
Banamex unit, also said he didn’t expect a change in rates.  Domestic Demand  Mexico’s domestic demand remains weaker than regional peers
including Brazil and Chile even as stronger exports to the U.S.
have led the central bank to forecast 5 percent growth in 2010
after the economy contracted 6.5 percent last year, the worst
slump since 1932. While  consumer confidence  and retail sales
have increased, and unemployment fallen, they remain below
levels before the Sept. 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  Mexico’s  IPC index  of 35 stocks has climbed 13 percent this
year, exceeding the 4 percent gain for Brazil’s Bovespa index.  The March 2011 futures contract for the  28-day interbank
rate , known as TIIE, fell 23 basis points since the end of
September to 4.74 percent Nov. 8, suggesting policy makers may
cut borrowing costs 25 basis points. The futures rate rose to
4.77 percent yesterday. In the past five years, the spread
between the TIIE and benchmark has averaged 38 basis points.  The peso has gained 6.7 percent this year, on pace for the
biggest annual rally on record. The currency rose 0.3 percent to
12.2667 per U.S. dollar at 12:27 a.m. New York time.  Currency Gains  Only the Colombian peso has gained more among major Latin
American currencies, rising 10 percent since Dec. 31. A stronger
currency hurts exporters by making their goods become more
expensive in dollar terms.  Countries from Brazil to Thailand to Colombia are imposing
levies on foreign capital, ending tax exemptions for foreigners
or stepping up dollar purchases in the currency market. Carstens
criticized such moves in an Oct. 27 radio interview.  “We would try to avoid falling into these circumstances,
although you can never discard all possibilities,” Carstens
said. Currency wars are “very destructive,” he told Radio
Formula.  The central bank declined to comment on Carstens’s meeting
last week with economists.  Brazil’s 10.75 percent benchmark rate and Mexico’s 4.5
percent rate are luring foreign investors seeking to bolster
returns on their cash. Banco de Mexico has kept the benchmark
interest rate unchanged since July 2009.  Inflation Forecasts  Inflation, while quickening to 4 percent in October, is
below the bank’s forecasts, and policy makers have said the
economy remains vulnerable to the slowdown in the U.S., which
buys 80 percent of Mexico’s exports.  On Oct. 27, the central bank changed its 2011 inflation
forecast of 2.75 percent to 3.25 percent to an estimate of 3
percent plus or minus one percentage point. For Morgan Stanley,
the change gave the central bank “room to justify a potential
rate cut,” according to a Nov. 1 report.  Foreign investment in Cetes, zero-coupon bonds with a
maturity of as long as two years, almost doubled to 70.4 billion
pesos on Oct. 27 from 37.7 billion pesos a month earlier,
according to the central bank’s website. Foreign investment in
Cetes was 11.6 billion pesos at the end of 2009.  “This is the first sign of speculation, which is what the
central bank wants to avoid,” Cervera said. “It’s money that
won’t be there to help you fund 10-year mortgages or long-term
investment projects.”  Bucking Trend  A rate cut would set Mexico apart from Brazil, Chile and
Peru, where policy makers raised rates after the global
financial crisis ended. In Colombia, economists at Banco Popular
SA and Interbolsa SA have speculated the central bank may reduce
 its rate  from 3 percent after consumer prices fell in October.  Deutsche Bank expects the central bank to lower the
interest rate by a half point at its final policy meeting of the
year on Nov. 26.  “In the meeting with Carstens there was nothing that could
make us doubt our call,”  Mauro Roca , an economist at Deutsche
Bank, said in a telephone interview from New York.  Deutsche is one of only two of 23 firms polled in a Nov. 4
survey by Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit predicting the bank’s
next move will be a rate reduction.  Banco de Mexico last month cut its inflation forecast for
the next two quarters, saying the country was experiencing only
moderate wage increases and limited external pressure on prices.  The  central bank  won’t reduce borrowing costs unless it’s
certain that foreign investment will keep pouring in, Carstens
said at the New York meeting, according to Rafael de la Fuente,
a senior economist for Latin America at UBS.  “The message is that they are not comfortable at all with
the peso’s appreciation,” said  Bertrand Delgado , an economist
at Roubini Global Economics LLC in New York, who didn’t attend
the gathering. “This is a form of verbal intervention.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net 
 Andres R. Martinez  in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  