-- Czech Bond Buyers ‘Cash-Rich’ Before Today’s Sale, SocGen Says
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2010-11-10T09:41:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/czech-bond-buyers-are-seen-cash-rich-before-today-s-sale-socgen-says.html
A Czech sale of bonds will draw
“strong” demand today as mild inflation may delay an interest-
rate increase and investors are “cash-rich” after a portion of
government debt matured last month,  Societe Generale SA  said.  The government seeks to raise 6 billion koruna ($337
million) in the sixth offering of its 2.8 percent note due
September 2013, according to a  prospectus  on the central bank’s
website. The first, competitive part of the auction ends at noon
in Prague.  The Czech annual inflation rate held steady at 2 percent in
October, the statistics office in Prague said yesterday. That
missed the central bank’s 2.2 percent forecast and the same
median estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “Softer consumer-price index may push back hike
expectations; expect strong demand for the Czech bond,”  Anne- Francoise Bluher , a fixed-income analyst at SocGen’s Prague-
based unit,  Komercni Banka AS , wrote in a report today.  The government’s 2.55 percent notes, first sold in 2005,
matured on Oct. 18, with the outstanding volume at 57 billion
koruna, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investors might be cash-rich” after the government
repaid the older debt “which should support demand” at
today’s auction, Bluher wrote.  At the previous auction of the 2013 debt on Sept. 8, the
yield fell to a record-low of 1.993 percent as an issue of debt
in euros earlier that week allowed the government to trim local
supply, while investor demand rose on fiscal-austerity plans.
Bids totaled 3.4 times more than the amount sold.  On the secondary market today, the yield on the security
was little changed at 2.233 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  