-- Dana Gas Returns to Profit on Lower Write-Offs, Higher Hydrocarbon Prices
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2010-11-10T07:57:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/dana-gas-returns-to-profit-on-lower-exploration-costs-hydrocarbon-prices.html
Dana Gas PJSC , a United Arab
Emirates energy company, posted a third-quarter profit compared
with a year-ago loss, attributing the result to higher product
prices and output and fewer write-offs due to exploration costs.  Net income  rose to 33 million dirhams ($8.99 million) in
the quarter from a 79 million-dirham loss in the same period
last year, the company said in a statement today. Dana Gas
expects to earn a profit for the full year, in line with its
results for the first three quarters, Chief Executive Officer
 Ahmed Al-Arbeed  said in an interview.  “We will continue growing,” Al-Arbeed said, adding the
company expects to reach its target of boosting production by 20
percent this year. “The quarterly result was due to higher
production and lower exploration write-offs.”  Earnings at U.A.E.-based energy companies such as Dana Gas
and  Abu Dhabi National Energy Co. , the state-run utility known
as Taqa, have benefited from higher oil prices, which rose to an
average of $76.20 a barrel in the quarter from $68.26 a barrel a
year earlier. Taqa today said its third-quarter profit more than
doubled to 218 million dirhams from 90 million dirhams in the
same quarter of 2009.  Dana Gas is developing deposits, production and
transportation facilities in Egypt and the Kurdish area of
northern Iraq as well as in the U.A.E. The company, based in the
emirate of Sharjah, boosted hydrocarbon sales by 13 percent to
407 million dirhams, with production volumes in Egypt and Iraq
rising by 24 percent, according to the statement.  Talking With Bidders  The company, which pumps most of its natural gas in Egypt,
may announce an agreement by the end of this year to sell as
much as 30 percent of its Egyptian exploration and production
concessions, Al-Arbeed said. Dana Gas is in talks with bidders
and is seeking to determine the best offer, he said.  Standard
Chartered Plc  is advising on the transaction.  The company wrote off 15 million dirhams in the quarter due
to unsuccessful exploration, compared with a similar impairment
of 110 million dirhams in the same quarter of last year,
according to the statement. Dana Gas has reported profit of 33
million dirhams in each quarter of the year so far, resulting in
a nine-month profit that already exceeds the 88 million dirhams
it earned for all of 2009, according to Bloomberg data.  Dana Gas announced discoveries at two wells in Egypt, where
it produced the equivalent of 3.9 million barrels of oil a day
in the third quarter. The production rate at the Khor Mor field
in the semi-autonomous Kurdish region in northern Iraq is set to
rise to 300 million cubic feet a day next year from the current
daily rate of 200 million cubic feet, Al-Arbeed said.  The West Ward Delta 1 discovery in Egypt tested at a rate
of 12.9 million cubic feet a day, and preliminary estimates put
potentially recoverable reserves there at between 10 billion and
17 billion cubic feet of gas. The Salma Delta North 1 well
tested at 16.1 million cubic feet a day, with 561 barrels a day
of condensate, the company said. More testing is needed to
determine potential reserves, the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anthony DiPaola  in Dubai at  adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net . 