-- Deficit Plan Matches $3.8 Trillion Math With Tough Politics
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2010-11-11T14:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/deficit-reduction-panel-s-plan-would-seek-to-cut-social-security-medicare.html
A plan offered by the leaders of
President  Barack Obama ’s commission to reduce the federal
 deficit  might work. It just won’t happen.  The co-chairmen proposed a $3.8 trillion  deficit -cutting
plan yesterday that would trim Social Security and Medicare,
reduce income-tax rates and eliminate tax breaks including the
mortgage-interest deduction. It would reduce the annual deficit
from $1.3 trillion this year to about $400 billion by 2015 and
start reducing the $13.7 trillion national debt.  “Mathematically it apparently works,” said  Stan Collender , a former Democratic House and Senate budget analyst
and managing director of Qorvis Communications in Washington.
“Politically, it is going to have a lot of trouble getting
support from more than just the two co-chairs.”  The plan would raise the gas tax, slash defense spending
and farm subsidies and bring down health-care costs by clamping
down on medical malpractice suits. The Social Security
retirement age would rise to 68 in about 2050 and 69 in about
2075.  Its release created instant opposition from Democrats, some
Republicans and groups such as the Mortgage Bankers Association
and the Aerospace Industries Association.  Democratic House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  called the targeting
of Social Security and Medicare “simply unacceptable,” and
Republican Representative  Jeb Hensarling  of Texas expressed
opposition to proposals to raise taxes.  Obama Reaction  Obama, in Seoul as part of a 10-day tour of Asia, said he
had yet to read the plan and that critics should withhold their
judgment until the final report. He urged congressional leaders
to match rhetoric with action and join him in making difficult
decisions about taxes and spending.  “So before anybody starts shooting down proposals, I think
we need to listen, we need to gather up all the facts,” Obama
said at a press conference with South Korean counterpart  Lee Myung-Bak . “If people are, in fact, concerned about spending,
debt, deficits and the future of our country, then they’re going
to need to be armed with the information about the kinds of
choices that are going to be involved.”  Panel co-chairman  Erskine Bowles , former chief of staff to
President  Bill Clinton , joked that he and co-chairman  Alan Simpson , a Republican former Wyoming senator, would have to
enter a “witness protection program.”  ‘Harpooned Every Whale’  “We have harpooned every whale in the ocean and some of
the minnows,” said Simpson. The plan, he said, is sure to be
unpopular. He and Bowles said the proposals should be
viewed as a starting point for negotiations. The panel meets
again next week to consider changes.  “Is America ready for an adult conversation on the
deficit?” said Representative  Jim Cooper , a Tennessee Democrat.
“It’s ‘put up or shut up’ time.”  None of the proposals would take effect next year to avoid
disrupting the economic recovery. The savings would come between
2012 and 2020, cutting the deficit from the current 9 percent of
the nation’s gross domestic product to about 2.2 percent in
2015, exceeding Obama’s goal of a reductions to 3 percent of
GDP.  $8 Trillion  The government is projected to run $8 trillion in deficits
over the next 10 years, which would push the national debt to
more than $20 trillion. If the proposal were adopted without
change, the government still would have deficits of $350 billion
a year.  “It puts out there how big and real the problems are,”
said Oklahoma Republican Senator  Tom Coburn , a member of the
committee.  Under one option, income-tax rates would be reduced to
three levels: 8 percent, 14 percent and 23 percent. Now there
are six tax levels ranging from 10 percent to 35 percent. The
corporate income-tax rate would be cut to 26 percent from 35
percent.  The plan includes two less sweeping alternatives to ending
all tax breaks, including one in which a pared back mortgage tax
deduction would be retained. Under that proposal, homeowners
could not take the break for second homes, mortgages worth more
than $500,000 or home equity loans.  Wiping out all tax breaks, including the home mortgage-
interest deduction, while lowering rates would cost taxpayers
$100 billion a year. Members of the panel could decide to keep
some of the breaks by offering offsetting cuts, Bowles said.  ‘Not the Time’  John Courson , chief executive officer of the Mortgage
Bankers Association in Washington, said eliminating or reducing
the mortgage deduction would drive down home values.  “Of all the times to do it, now is not the time,” he said
in an interview.  Still,  Michael Ettlinger , vice president for economic
policy at the  Center for American Progress  in Washington, said
the fact that the deduction disproportionately benefits
wealthier homeowners might create political will to revise it.  Overall, yesterday’s proposal would raise taxes by $751
billion over 10 years, including a 15-cent increase in the gas
tax that would be phased in starting in 2013. Farm subsidies
would be cut by $3 billion a year.  The plan calls for discretionary spending to be cut by $1.4
trillion over 10 years, while mandatory spending -- including
Social Security, Medicare for the elderly and Medicaid for the
poor -- would be reduced by $733 billion.  John Rother , executive vice president for policy at the
senior citizens’ group AARP, said his group would oppose the
plan because it would be “dramatically lowering benefits over
time” in Social Security and Medicare.  ‘Drop Dead’  Bowles and Simpson “just told working Americans to ‘drop
dead,’” said AFL-CIO President  Richard Trumka . “The very
people who want to slash Social Security and Medicare spent this
week clamoring for more unpaid Bush tax cuts for millionaires.”  The plan spells out $100 billion in defense cuts, including
freezing Defense Department salaries and noncombat military pay
at 2011 levels for three years, cutting overseas bases by one-
third and doubling proposed cuts in defense contracting.  The  Aerospace Industries Association , the trade group for
U.S. defense contractors, said it had “grave concerns” about
proposals to reduce funds for purchasing, research and
development. “We cannot abandon the security of future
generations,” said the group, which represents Lockheed Martin
Corp., Boeing Co., and Northrop Grumman Corp.  Bowles said about three-quarters of the savings would come
from spending cuts, with the remainder from tax increases.  Freeze Federal Salaries  It would reduce congressional and White House budgets by 15
percent, freeze federal salaries for three years and cut the
federal workforce by 10 percent. House Republican leader  John Boehner  of Ohio, who will become speaker in January, said before
the plan’s release that he supported a freeze on federal hiring
and government workers’ pay.  The proposal would also end government funding of  National
Public Radio  and the  Public Broadcasting Service , begin charging
fees to visitors to the  Smithsonian Institution  museums in
Washington, raise fees at national parks and merge the
Department of Commerce with the Small Business Administration.  It would eliminate the Office of Safe and Drug-Free
Schools, whose budget Obama proposed more than doubling from
2008 levels. The plan said that “while school safety should be
protected, violence and drug abuse are problems that occur far
less on school grounds than elsewhere.”  Agreement Needed  The panel needs agreement from 14 of its 18 members before
a plan can be sent for an up-or-down vote in Congress.  Dan Seiver , a finance professor at San Diego State
University, said the plan’s strength is its attack on many
budget areas long considered untouchable. “You’re not really
going to get fiscal sanity without goring everybody -- everybody
has to sacrifice,” he said.  Orin Kramer , general partner of hedge fund Boston Provident
Partners LP and a Democratic Party fund-raiser, said he doubts
an agreement can be reached.  “The most central question that somebody should ask is:
‘What are the prospects for a grand bargain that will change the
path of federal fiscal policy?’” Kramer said. “And the chances
of that under current conditions are zero.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Heidi Przybyla  in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  