-- U.S. Debt Proposal Would Cut Social Security, Taxes, Medicare
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2010-11-10T18:55:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/deficit-panel-s-plan-would-seek-to-cut-social-security-mortgage-deduction.html
A presidential commission’s leaders
proposed a $3.8 trillion  deficit -cutting plan that would cut
Social Security and Medicare, reduce income-tax rates and
eliminate tax breaks including the mortgage-interest deduction.  The co-chairmen of the panel appointed by President  Barack Obama  suggested reducing Social Security spending by raising the
retirement age to 68 in about 2050 and 69 in about 2075. The
plan also would slow the rate at which benefits grow. The
savings would come between 2012 and 2020.  “This country’s out of money and we better start thinking,”
said co-chairman  Erskine Bowles . Without “tough choices,” he
said, “we’re on the most predictable path toward an economic
crisis that I can imagine.”  Bowles, former President  Bill Clinton ’s chief of staff, and
Republican former Senator  Alan Simpson  of Wyoming announced the
proposal in Washington today, stressing that it was intended as
a starting point for discussion.  None of the proposals would take effect next year to avoid
disrupting the economic recovery. Bowles said income-tax rates
would be reduced to three levels: 8 percent, 14 percent and 23
percent.  Wiping out all tax breaks, including the home mortgage
deduction, while lowering rates would save $100 billion a year,
Bowles said. Members of the panel could decide to keep some tax
breaks by offering offsetting cuts, he said.  Bowles said about three-fourths of the savings would come
from spending cuts with the remainder from tax increases.  ‘Harpooned Every Whale’  “We have harpooned every whale in the ocean and some of the
minnows,” Simpson said. “No one has done this before.”  The proposal would attempt to slow health-care costs by
paying doctors participating in Medicare less, and it calls
for “comprehensive” legislation to reduce medical malpractice
costs.  Discretionary spending cuts in the plan include reducing
congressional and White House budgets by 15 percent, freezing
federal salaries and cutting the federal workforce by 10
percent. The discretionary reductions of $1.4 trillion would be
split equally between defense and domestic programs, Bowles
said.  “The cuts really will happen on both sides of that
firewall,” he said.  The plan would cut the deficit to 2.2 percent of gross
domestic product by 2015, from the current 9 percent, exceeding
Obama’s goal. It would also reduce debt to 60 percent of GDP by
2024.  “This is Al’s and my proposal, nobody else’s,” Bowles said.
“The president hasn’t seen this proposal.” Some members of
Obama’s financial team have seen the plan and they liked some
things and not others, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Heidi Przybyla  in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  