-- Delhaize Stock Jumps as U.S. Grocery-Store Revenue Drop Slows
-- B y   J e r o e n   M o l e n a a r
-- 2010-11-10T11:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/delhaize-posts-profit-gain-confirms-forecast-as-u-s-sales-decline-eases.html
Delhaize Group SA  jumped the most in
almost 20 months in Brussels trading after the owner of the Food
Lion and Hannaford supermarkets in the U.S. said a revenue
decline in the region is slowing.  Delhaize  rose  as much as 7.3 percent to 54.60 euros, the
biggest intraday gain since March 12, 2009, and was up 5.3
percent as of 12:17 p.m., valuing the Brussels-based company at
5.4 billion euros ($7.5 billion).  Sales at U.S. stores open at least a year fell 1.8 percent
in the third quarter, Delhaize said today in a statement. That
compares with a 3.6 percent drop in the second quarter. The
retailer, which also owns the biggest supermarket chain in
Belgium, gets about 70 percent of sales from the U.S. The
company said today that promotions at Food Lion outlets helped
add revenue in southeast U.S. markets.  “Analysts and investors are too pessimistic about growth
in the U.S., as Delhaize goes to show,”  Richard Withagen , an
analyst at SNS Securities in Amsterdam, said today by telephone.
“Hannaford, rival to Ahold’s Stop & Shop, even had ‘an
outstanding quarter,’ as Delhaize put it.”  Royal Ahold NV, the Amsterdam-based owner of the U.S. Stop
& Shop supermarket chain, is scheduled to release third-quarter
earnings on Nov. 18. Ahold rose 0.8 euros to 9.73 euros in
Amsterdam trading.  Withagen, who doesn’t rate Delhaize’s stock and has a
“buy”  recommendation  on Ahold shares, said he expects the
Dutch retailer to “surprise positively” by reporting a
2 percent increase in sales, excluding gasoline, at its U.S.
stores open at least a year.  Quarterly Profit Rises  Delhaize’s third-quarter net income rose 9.4 percent from a
year earlier to 140 million euros. Profit beat the 125.8
million-euro average of 13 analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue rose 8.6 percent to 5.31 billion euros.  “The positive trend in the U.S., combined with strong
performances in Belgium and Greece, enables us to generate a
healthy and stable operating margin,” Chief Executive Officer
 Pierre-Olivier Beckers  said in the statement. More sales-
building initiatives in the U.S. are planned for the second
quarter of 2011, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeroen Molenaar  in Amsterdam at 
 jmolenaar1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 