-- E.ON Plans $21 Billion in Asset Sales as Earnings Set to Drop
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2010-11-10T17:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/e-on-plans-21-billion-in-asset-sales-as-power-company-faces-earnings-drop.html
E.ON AG  plans to raise 15 billion
euros ($21 billion) by the end of 2013 in a second round of
asset sales and expand outside of Europe as Germany’s largest
utility faces a decline in earnings. The shares advanced to
their highest level since September.  The company could sell its power transmission grid in the
U.K., Chief Financial Officer  Marcus Schenck  said today at a
press conference in Dusseldorf, Germany. E.ON has already  sold 
its German high-voltage network and would follow Electricite de
France SA in divesting U.K. power lines.  European utilities are scrambling to boost profits as they
face declining power prices, an oversupply of natural gas and
governments seeking to raise regulatory influence. E.ON, which
was  saddled  with debt when it bought generators in France, Italy
and Spain, wants to start operating in two markets outside of
Europe to benefit from faster-growing energy demand.  “This calms a lot of fears,” said  Bernhard Jeggle , an
analyst with Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg who recommends
investors buy E.ON shares. “They’ve done a good job on selling
assets in the past and should have no problem to reach that
target now that the market has improved.”  Jeggle said E.ON could sell its stake in OAO Gazprom, the
world’s biggest gas producer. Schenck declined to say which
assets E.ON will sell. The strategic value of the stake in
Gazprom has declined over the last few years, Schenck said.  ‘Under Pressure’  “Our objective is to sharpen E.ON’s profile as an
international energy specialist and to increase our earnings
strength by placing it on a broader, more international
foundation,” Chief Executive Officer  Johannes Teyssen  said in a
letter to shareholders published today.  Profit  will be “under pressure” in the next three to four
years, E.ON said in a presentation distributed to reporters.  E.ON  rose  2.2 percent to 22.675 euros in Frankfurt trading,
the highest closing price since Sept. 13. That trimmed the
 stock ’s decline this year to 21 percent, compared with a 25
percent decline for smaller competitor RWE AG and a 13 percent
increase for Germany’s  benchmark  DAX Index, of which both
companies are members.  The company didn’t say which markets it will enter. E.ON
said it plans to modify its strategy and seek to partner on
projects rather than to gain complete ownership.  “It’s good that E.ON is giving itself the time to think
the international expansion through and it is the right step to
grow abroad with partners,” LBBW’s Jeggle said.  Dividend Payout  While E.ON still plans to recommend a 1.50 euro-a-share
dividend for 2010, the company is targeting a minimum
shareholder payout of 1.30 euros a share for 2011 and 2012,
according to the statement. The utility is maintaining its 50
percent to 60 percent  payout  ratio.  Adjusted  earnings  before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, excluding the effects of the asset sales, will be
at about their 2010 level in 2013, according to the
presentation. The utility plans  cost cuts  that will boost
earnings by 600 million euros a year from 2013, according to the
statement.  The U.K. grid unit could fetch 3.5 billion pounds ($5.7
billion), the Sunday Times reported Nov. 7, without saying where
it got the information. Electricite de France completed the sale
of its U.K. power unit for 5.8 billion pounds, including debt,
to a group led by Li Ka-shing’s Cheung Kong Infrastructure
Holdings Ltd. earlier this month.  ‘Risky Markets’  “Their debt multiples will not be looking OK in 2011”
without assets sales,  Peter Wirtz , a WestLB AG  analyst  who has a
“neutral” rating on E.ON, said Nov. 8. Still, the analyst
voiced concern at divestitures. “You can’t sell assets that are
at the core of your business at prices you can’t be sure of only
to spend the proceeds on risky markets.”  Former CEO  Wulf Bernotat  set a target of raising more than
10 billion euros from asset sales in the two years through 2010
after the acquisitions in Spain, Italy and France saddled the
company with debt. He exceeded that target after agreeing to
sell the company’s U.S. utility business to PPL Corp. in April.
E.ON, which still owns wind turbines in the U.S., has sold about
13 billion euros of assets in the last two years.  E.ON sold or swapped about 20 percent of its power
generation capacity in Germany, and also disposed of its
domestic electricity grid, to end an EU antitrust probe. It also
sold a municipal utility holding company to a group of German
local energy suppliers.  ‘Burn’ Earnings  While German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government agreed
to allow nuclear reactors to run longer in exchange for payments
to a renewable energy fund, it stuck to a plan to raise an
annual 2.3 billion euros from the country’s four largest
utilities for six years starting in 2011.  The German nuclear levy could “burn” E.ON’s annual
adjusted Ebit by as much as 1.5 billion euros, the utility said
in August.  Electricity prices in Europe’s biggest market didn’t track
oil and coal gains after the worst recession since World War II
and a colder-than-usual winter.  German power for delivery in 2011 averaged 50.25 euros a
megawatt-hour in the first nine months of the year, 7.8 percent
less than the 54.50 euros it fetched in the same period in 2009,
broker data on Bloomberg show. German electricity can be sold
several years in advance in order to limit price volatility.  E.ON lost a competitive advantage last year when output of
gas in the U.S. jumped and liquefied natural gas cargoes were
diverted to Europe. The price of gas on the spot market fell to
about half the price at which the utility buys the fuel through
multiyear contracts with producers Gazprom and Statoil ASA.  The company agreed with suppliers earlier this year to tie
some of its supply to spot prices, rather than crude oil, to
lessen the effect on earnings. Teyssen said in August that
additional talks were necessary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Comfort  in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  