-- E.ON Plans $21 Billion in Asset Sales as Earnings Set to Drop
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2010-11-10T10:36:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/e-on-plans-21-billion-in-asset-sales-as-earnings-set-to-drop.html
E.ON AG , Germany’s largest utility,
plans to raise 15 billion euros ($21 billion) by the end of 2013
in a second round of asset sales and expand outside of Europe as
the company faces a decline in earnings.  Profit will be “under pressure” in the next three to four
years on lower power prices and an oversupply of natural gas and
as European governments increase influence over the energy
industry, E.ON said in a presentation distributed to reporters
today at the company’s headquarters in Dusseldorf, Germany.  E.ON plans to pay down borrowings with the asset sales and
use the “financial strength” it gains to invest in two markets
outside of Europe where demand is growing, according to the
presentation. The company, which was saddled with debt after
snapping up power plants in Europe, said it has adapted its
strategy and will seek to partner on projects rather than to
gain complete ownership.  “Our objective is to sharpen E.ON’s profile as an
international energy specialist and to increase our earnings
strength by placing it on a broader, more international
foundation,” Chief Executive Officer  Johannes Teyssen  said in a
letter to shareholders published today.  Dividend Payout  E.ON rose 3.9 percent to 23.045 euros in Frankfurt trading
as of 10:13 a.m. local time. That trimmed the  stock ’s decline
this year to 21 percent. That compares with a 24 percent decline
for smaller rival RWE AG and a 14 percent increase for Germany’s
benchmark DAX Index, of which both companies are members.  While E.ON still plans to recommend a 1.50 euro-a-share
dividend for 2010, the company is targeting a minimum
shareholder payout of 1.30 euros a share for 2011 and 2012,
according to the statement. The utility is maintaining its 50
percent to 60 percent payout ratio.  Adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, excluding the effects of the asset sales, will be
at about their 2010 level in 2013, according to the
presentation. The utility plans cost cuts that will boost
earnings by 600 million euros a year from 2013, according to the
statement.  E.ON may sell its U.K. power grid, Chief Financial Officer
 Marcus Schenck  said, without specifying what assets the German
utility will sell. The U.K. grid unit could fetch 3.5 billion
pounds ($5.7 billion), the Sunday Times reported Nov. 7, without
saying where it got the information.  ‘Risky Markets’  “Their debt multiples will not be looking OK in 2011”
without assets sales,  Peter Wirtz , a WestLB AG analyst who has a
“neutral” rating on E.ON, said Nov. 8. Still, the analyst
voiced concern at divestitures. “You can’t sell assets that are
at the core of your business at prices you can’t be sure of only
to spend the proceeds on risky markets.”  Former CEO  Wulf Bernotat  set a target of raising more than
10 billion euros from asset sales in the two years through 2010
after acquisitions in Spain, Italy and France saddled the
company with debt. He exceeded that target after agreeing to
sell the company’s U.S. utility business to PPL Corp. in April.
E.ON, which still owns wind turbines in the U.S., has sold about
13 billion euros of assets in the last two years.  E.ON sold or swapped about 20 percent of its power
generation capacity in Germany, and also disposed of its
domestic electricity grid, to end an EU antitrust probe. It also
sold a municipal utility holding company to a group of German
local energy suppliers.  ‘Burn’ Earnings  While German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government agreed
to allow nuclear reactors to run longer in exchange for payments
to a renewable energy fund, it stuck to a plan to raise an
annual 2.3 billion euros from the country’s four largest
utilities for six years starting in 2011.  The German nuclear levy could “burn” E.ON’s annual
adjusted Ebit by as much as 1.5 billion euros, the utility said
in August.  Electricity prices in Europe’s biggest market didn’t track
oil and coal gains after the worst recession since World War II
and a colder-than-usual winter.  German power for delivery in 2011 averaged 50.25 euros a
megawatt-hour in the first nine months of the year, 7.8 percent
less than the 54.50 euros it fetched in the same period in 2009,
broker data on Bloomberg show. German electricity can be sold
several years in advance in order to limit price volatility.  E.ON lost a competitive advantage last year when output of
gas in the U.S. jumped and liquefied natural gas cargoes were
diverted to Europe. The price of gas on the spot market fell to
about half the price at which the utility buys the fuel through
multiyear contracts with producers OAO Gazprom and Statoil ASA.  The company agreed with suppliers earlier this year to tie
some of its supply to spot prices, rather than crude oil, to
lessen the effect on earnings. Teyssen said in August that
additional talks were necessary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Comfort  in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Will Kennedy
at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  