-- E.ON Nine-Month Adjusted Net Income Climbs as Utility Lowers Costs, Prices
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2010-11-10T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/e-on-nine-month-adjusted-net-income-climbs-as-utility-lowers-costs-prices.html
E.ON AG , Germany’s largest utility,
said nine-month adjusted net income rose 2 percent as cost cuts
in the U.K. boosted earnings and it sold energy at higher prices
in the Nordic region.  The profit gauge used to calculate dividend rose to 4.4
billion euros ($6.1 billion), the company said today in a
statement handed out in Dusseldorf. Year-earlier figures were
not supplied in the statement. Sales gained 11 percent to about
64 billion euros, according to the statement.  E.ON’s earnings may drop from next year as European power
prices haven’t recovered with demand and Germany plans to tax
reactors to help plug its deficit.  Johannes Teyssen , who took
over as the utility’s chief executive officer in May, is
scheduled to detail his strategy for the period starting in 2011
at a press conference at 9:30 a.m. in Dusseldorf.  “To some extent, we believe it is make or break time,”
Barclays Capital analysts including  Peter Bisztyga  in London
said in a Nov. 5 note. “E.ON’s new CEO has a clear opportunity
to strategically review underperforming assets, instill capital
discipline, accelerate efficiency savings and drive a strong
cash flow recovery. If E.ON can deliver, we think it can regain
investor confidence.”  Share Performance  E.ON has fallen 24 percent to 22.18 euros in Frankfurt
 trading  this year, valuing the company at about 44.4 billion
euros. That compares with a 26 percent decline for smaller
competitor RWE AG and a 14 percent increase for Germany’s
benchmark  DAX Index , which includes both companies.  While German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government agreed
to allow nuclear reactors to run longer in exchange for payments
to a renewable energy fund, it stuck to a plan to raise an
annual 2.3 billion euros from the country’s four largest
utilities for six years starting in 2011.  The utility said Oct. 27 that nine-month adjusted earnings
before interest and tax rose 9.6 percent to 8 billion euros.  The German nuclear levy could “burn” E.ON’s annual
adjusted Ebit by as much as 1.5 billion euros, the utility said
in August.  Electricity prices in Europe’s biggest market didn’t track
oil and coal gains after the worst recession since World War II
and a colder-than-usual winter.  German power for delivery in 2011 averaged 50.25 euros a
megawatt-hour in the first nine months of the year, 7.8 percent
less than the 54.50 euros it fetched in the same period in 2009,
broker data on Bloomberg show. German electricity can be sold
several years in advance in order to limit price volatility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Comfort  in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Will Kennedy
at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  