-- Heart-Valve Win May Prod J&J, Abbott to Buy Companies
-- B y   D a v i d   O l m o s
-- 2010-11-10T21:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/heart-valve-win-may-prod-j-j-abbott-to-shop-for-technology.html
Abbott Laboratories  and  Johnson &
Johnson , pursuing a potential $2 billion market for heart valves
that don’t require rib-cracking surgery, are shopping for
companies with the new technology.  The two device-and-drug makers are seeking to catch up with
 Edwards Lifesciences Corp. , the Irvine, California-based device
maker whose new valve, called  Sapien , cut death rates in a study
in patients too sick to have open-heart surgery. Edwards is
testing whether the technology, which inserts the valve using a
thin wire threaded through arteries, works as well in less-
feeble patients, trimming recovery time to weeks from months.  Edwards’ finding “tilts the probability of earlier stage
merger and acquisition transactions,” said  Jed Cohen , a
managing director at Leerink Swann in New York. J&J, of New
Brunswick, New Jersey, and Abbott, of Abbott Park, Illinois, are
likely to target smaller, more-efficient technology to help them
overcome Edwards’ head start.  “All the big corporations that are not in this space, and
even some that have their own internal programs, are looking”
to buy, said  Antoine Papiernik , managing partner at Sofinnova
Partners in Paris, in a telephone interview. “People are
opening up their eyes to the idea that transcatheter valves are
a revolution, like stents were to coronary artery bypass.”  If the ongoing trial is as positive as the initial result,
the market for the new aortic valves may reach $2.1 billion by
2015, said  Larry Biegelsen , a Wells Fargo Securities analyst
based in New York, in a note to investors.  First U.S. Clearance  Edwards may seek U.S. marketing approval for its valve by
the fourth quarter of 2011,  said  Michael Weinstein , of JPMorgan
Securities in New York, in a Sept. 23 note to clients.  The device maker fell 30 cents, or less than 1 percent, to
$66.16 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading,
and has increased 64 percent in the past 12 months. J&J fell 36
cents, or less than 1 percent, to $63.95, and Abbott dropped 12
cents to $50.17.  Edwards already sells its Sapien heart valve in Europe, and
reported worldwide sales of $112 million from transcatheter
valves in 2009. It competes there with  Medtronic Inc.’s  heart-
valve device acquired through a $700 million purchase of
CoreValve in February 2009.  “With a very large market, people tend to think it is
winner-take-all, and it looks that way in the beginning,” said
 David Singer , a partner at the San Francisco office of Maverick
Capital Ltd., a Dallas-based hedge fund that was an early
investor in CoreValve. That doesn’t mean that companies that
aren’t first to market won’t be able to capture sizable sales if
they can show their products work better for some patients,
Singer said.  Valve Companies  Closely held companies working on heart-valve technology
include Munich-based JenaValve Technology; Direct Flow Medical
Inc., of Santa Rosa, California; Sadra Medical Inc., based in
Los Gatos, California, and Symetis SA of Lausanne, Switzerland.  Founded in 2006, JenaValve  has raised  $46.8 million (33.5
million euros) from six European and one U.S. venture capital
firm to develop its technology.  The company is developing two valves that can be implanted
through incisions in either the upper leg or chest, said Helmut
Straubinger, the company’s chief executive officer. The system
is designed to enable doctors to position the valve more
accurately, he said.  A smaller delivery system would allow doctors to maneuver
the device more easily through patients’ arteries, especially
people with tinier blood vessels. An easier-to-maneuver system
may persuade more doctors to adopt the technology, growing the
market, said Dan Gladney, CEO of Heart Leaflet Technologies of
Maple Grove, Minnesota, acquired in April by Bracco SpA of
Milan.  Cost for Studies  Clinical studies needed to get a heart valve approved in
the U.S. may cost $40 million to $50 million, Gladney said.  “It’s a significant cost, but at the same time you’re
looking at an opportunity that will be in the neighborhood of $2
billion,” Gladney said.  It’s unlikely that any of the smaller valve makers will
fetch the $700 million price tag that Medtronic paid for
CoreValve, said Leerink Swann’s Cohen. Medtronic also bought
another heart valve maker, Ventor Technologies Ltd., for $325
million, in February 2009.  J&J, the world’s largest maker of health products, had
$12.7 billion in cash and cash equivalents as of June 10 to
pursue acquisitions. Sales of medical devices and diagnostic
equipment, comprising 38 percent of its 2009 revenue, were $23.6
billion.  ‘Very Interested’  J&J’s Cordis unit no longer has an internal program to
develop a transcatheter aortic valve, though the company remains
“very interested” in the technology, said  Seth Fischer , Cordis
group chairman, in a June investor call. Bill Price, a spokesman
for J&J, declined to comment about potential acquisitions.  Abbott, a maker of drugs and medical devices, had $4.3
billion in cash as of June 10. In November 2009, Abbott acquired
Evalve Inc., which makes transcatheter devices for a different
part of the heart --the mitral valve -- for $320 million.
Evalve’s product can also be implanted without the need for
chest-cracking surgery.  Jonathon Hamilton , an Abbott spokesman, declined to comment
about potential acquisitions.  In the Edwards’  study , published Sept. 22 in the New
England Journal of Medicine, the company’s Sapien heart valve
reduced death rates by 20 percentage points in frail, elderly
patients with heart valve damage compared with standard
treatment. The valves are used to treat a condition known as
 aortic stenosis , a narrowing of the heart’s aortic valve that
ordinarily ensures proper blood flow.  Findings in 2011  Edwards is expected to present findings from a second phase
of the trial involving hardier patients in the first half of
2011.  Edwards’ success “helps us from the exit-strategy
standpoint because it increases the value in the eyes of the
acquirers,” said  Peter Barrett , an investor in JenaValve and a
partner at Atlas Venture, a life-sciences and technology venture
capital firm in Waltham, Massachusetts. “It does increase the
likelihood of someone wanting to acquire in this space.”  Medtronic, which doesn’t break out sales of individual
products, said more than 12,000 CoreValve devices have been in
35 countries. Medtronic received Food and Drug Administration
approval on Oct. 15 to begin U.S. clinical studies of its
CoreValve device.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  