-- Medicare Chief Berwick to Make First Appearance Before Congress Next Week
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2010-11-10T21:39:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/medicare-chief-berwick-to-face-obama-health-care-critics-on-senate-panel.html
Medicare Administrator  Donald Berwick  will face critics of President  Barack Obama ’s health-
care overhaul next week, his first appearance before Congress
since he was appointed in a process that bypassed the Senate.  Berwick will testify at a Senate Finance Committee hearing
on  Medicare , the health insurance program for the elderly and
disabled, and the Medicaid program for the poor, the panel said
today in a statement. Republicans such as the panel’s ranking
member, Senator  Charles Grassley  of Iowa, for months have said
they want to question Berwick on the health-care law.  Berwick doesn’t have plans to testify before the House of
Representatives, where Republicans take control in January after
winning a majority in elections on Nov. 2. He manages the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid services, controlling a
projected $962 billion this year.  “We expect to get to know Mr. Berwick very well,” Sage
Eastman, a spokesman for Republican Representative  Dave Camp  of
Michigan, said in an e-mail today. Camp is in line to take over
the House Ways and Means Committee, which oversees Medicare.  Berwick was named to the post in a recess appointment while
Congress was out of session in July, bypassing the traditional
Senate confirmation process.  The overhaul would reduce the growth of spending in
Medicare and Medicaid by about $455 billion over a decade,
according to the Congressional Budget Office, the accounting arm
of Congress.  Jessica Santillo, a spokeswoman for the Department of
Health and Human Services, of which Medicare is a part, said
that Berwick decided to testify after being invited by Senator
 Max Baucus , the Montana Democrat who chairs the Finance
Committee.  “There are a lot of questions that he’ll need to answer
next week,” said Senator Orrin Hatch, Republican of Utah, in an
e-mail. Hatch is in line to be the ranking Republican on the
finance panel next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Drew Armstrong  in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net 
 Alex Wayne  in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  