-- Medvedev Asks South Korea Companies to Cooperate With Russia on Technology
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   B o m i   L i m
-- 2010-11-10T09:08:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/medvedev-asks-south-korea-companies-to-cooperate-with-russia-on-technology.html
President  Dmitry Medvedev  said
Russia is looking to South Korean companies to help modernize
his country’s industries and develop commercial applications in
key technologies.  Korean investors “not only bring money and jobs, but also
what is most important, modern technologies,” he said during a
visit to Seoul for a meeting with South Korean counterpart  Lee Myung Bak  before tomorrow’s Group of 20 summit. “We are ready
not only to trade. Korean companies have a lot of experience in
applied technologies and in their commercialization.”  Areas for cooperation include energy efficiency, medicine,
space technology and computer sciences, he said. Medvedev’s
visit comes on the heels of recent trips to China and Vietnam as
Russia moves to increase its presence in Asia to benefit from
the region’s growth, diversify its export markets and attract
investment.  Two-way trade between Russia and South Korea in the first
ninth months of this year totaled $12.4 billion, 20 percent
higher than the whole of 2009, according to data from the Korea
International Trade Association. Russia bought $5 billion worth
of South Korean goods between January and September in 2010,
making it the 13th largest destination.  Moscow-based  OAO Gazprom  and Korea Gas Corp. signed a
“road map” to export Russian gas to South Korea. The two
countries agreed to start talks on the subject, Gazprom Chief
Executive Officer  Alexei Miller  told reporters today.  Miller met with representatives from  Korea Gas Corp.  to
discuss holding talks next month on deliveries of natural gas
starting in 2017, he said. South Korea may import as much as 10
billion cubic meters a year, Miller said at the G-20 Business
Summit in Seoul today.  Gas Pipes  The gas may be delivered in liquefied or compressed form,
or though a land pipeline, Miller said. South Korea imports 1.5
million tons of LNG a year from Russia.  Europe remains the primary market for Gazprom, the world’s
biggest natural-gas producer. Gas delivered to Asia may reach
the same level as Europe within a “quite short” period of
time, Miller said. The European Union currently accounts for
half of Russia’s foreign trade.  Gazprom warned the EU last month that its move away from
long-term contracts may lead to a drop in supply for European
customers and an increase in exports to Asia. Sakhalin Energy, a
Gazprom-led venture, began shipping liquefied natural gas to
Japan and South Korea last year and aims to sign a contract next
year to supply China National Petroleum Corp. with 30 billion
cubic meters of gas annually for 30 years.  Medevdev and Lee also agreed to cooperate on “creating the
conditions” for resuming the stalled negotiations on North
Korea’s nuclear weapons program.  Dialogue Needed  Medvedev also said South Korea needs to engage in dialogue
with North Korea to ensure regional stability at today’s meeting
with Lee in Seoul, Lee’s office said in a statement.  Movements of personnel and vehicles near a nuclear test
site in North Korea have sparked speculation the totalitarian
nation may be preparing for a nuclear test. Six-party
multinational talks including Russia and South Korea on the
North’s atomic weapons program haven’t been held since December
2008 as Kim Jong Il’s regime insisted United Nations sanctions
be lifted first.  North Korea has been under UN Security Council sanctions
for its two nuclear tests in 2006 and 2009. The disarmament
talks also include China, Japan and the U.S.  South Korea’s military said last month it was monitoring
Punggyeri in North Korea’s northeastern North Hamgyong province
after the Chosun Ilbo newspaper reported on Oct. 21 that
movements may be related to preparations for a third nuclear
test. A nuclear test by North Korea would be considered a
“serious matter,” Admiral  Robert Willard , commander of the
U.S. Pacific Command, said in Seoul on Oct. 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  