-- Egypt's Inflation Rate Is Unchanged at 11% in October, State Agency Says
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2010-11-10T14:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/egypt-inflation-rate-unchanged-at-11-in-october-statistics-agency-says.html
Egypt’s main inflation rate was
unchanged in October, leaving the central bank room to keep its
benchmark interest rates at a four-year low to support economic
growth.  Urban inflation, the main indicator monitored by the
central bank, stayed at 11 percent, according to the website of
the Cairo-based  Central Agency for Public Mobilization and
Statistics . CI Capital, an Egyptian investment bank, had
forecast a rate of 11.1 percent, Beltone Financial had expected
10.8 percent while EFG-Hermes Holding SAE had predicted the rate
to fall to 10.5 percent.  “I don’t see currently any reason for the central bank to
raise rates,”  Alia Mamdouh , economist at Cairo-based CI
Capital, said by telephone. “I don’t think inflation is a risk,
at least not until mid-2011.”  The economy of the most populous Arab country expanded 5.6
percent in the third quarter, compared with 5.4 percent in the
previous three months. Growth is still below the average of 7
percent achieved in the three fiscal years through June 2008,
with the global financial crisis hurting revenue from tourism,
foreign direct investment and the Suez Canal.  The  central bank  kept its overnight deposit rate on hold at
a four-year-low of 8.25 percent on Nov. 4, saying inflation in
non-food items remained subdued. It also noted that uncertainty
about the recovery of the global economy may weigh on domestic
investment and external demand.  Slower Price Growth  Prices rose 1.4 percent in the month, the slowest month-on-
month increase since June, according to the statistics agency.
The cost of food and non-alcoholic beverages dropped 0.2
percent.  The central bank said on Oct. 2 that it will exempt credit
guarantees on imports of meat and chicken after a sharp rise in
their prices. “This has helped importers,” Mamdouh said.  Core inflation, which excludes the prices of fruits and
vegetables as well as regulated prices, accelerated to 7.75
percent in October from 7.59 percent in September, the central
bank said in a statement on its website today. Economists,
including  Reham El-Desoki  of Beltone, say the central bank’s
unannounced target for core inflation is between 6 to 8 percent.  Egypt’s benchmark EGX30 stock index has gained 10.4 percent
this year.  Juhayna Food Industries , the country’s biggest
publicly traded producer of packaged milk, has gained 32.7
percent since listing on the stock market in mid-June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 