-- U.K.'s Plan to Abandon Homebuilding Targets Is Unlawful, High Court Rules
-- B y   T i m   B a r w e l l
-- 2010-11-10T12:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/elimination-of-regional-homebuilding-targets-is-unlawful-high-court-rules.html
The U.K. government’s elimination of
regional homebuilding targets in an attempt to bring planning
decisions to the local level was unlawful, according to a ruling
from the High Court in London.  A judge today accepted closely held developer CALA Homes
(South) Ltd.’s argument that Communities Secretary  Eric Pickles 
acted prematurely in revoking the rules, according to a copy of
the judgement.  The regional targets, which were set under the previous
Labour administration, were scrapped by the Conservative-led
coalition government weeks after it took power in May. The lack
of a transitional policy left a “massive hole” in the planning
process and created “considerable confusion among everyone
involved in the delivery of housing,” the  Home Builders
Federation , the industry’s main lobby group, said in a statement
after the ruling.  “Those housing proposals will now need to be revisited
prior to the passage of any primary legislation,” Macfarlanes
LLP, CALA’s lawyers, said in a statement. “It is important that
the house building and construction industry -- which has a
major role to play in delivering the economy from recession --
does not suffer as a result of the Secretary of State’s
actions.”  The case was part of a judicial review, which traditionally
forces government agencies to review their decisions.  Communities and Local Government Minister  Bob Neill  said
the judgement “changes very little,” and that the government
plans to introduce the Localism Bill to Parliament later this
month.  ‘Top-Down Targets’  “Top-down targets don’t build homes,” Neill said in a
statement. “They’ve led to the lowest peacetime housebuilding
rates since 1924.”  The industry constructed about 118,000 homes in England
last year, down from 175,000 in 2007, according to the
government.  “The new government has said upfront it wants to build
more houses, which is a good thing,”  David Ritchie , chief
executive officer of  Bovis Homes Group Plc , said in an interview
on Nov. 8. “Their first step was negative though. They removed
the core housing planning policy without replacing it, which has
created a hiatus in homebuilding.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Barwell  in London on 
 tbarwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 