-- Emerging-Market Stocks Fall Most in Two Weeks on China Inflation Concern
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2010-11-10T08:32:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/emerging-market-stocks-fall-most-in-two-weeks-on-china-inflation-concern.html
Emerging-market stocks fell the most
in two weeks on concern China will join other Asian nations in
increasing capital controls and boosting interest rates to tame
inflation and curb asset bubbles.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  slipped 0.2 percent to
1,152.88 as of 2:30 p.m. Jakarta time. China’s  Shanghai
Composite Index  fell for a second day on concern the October
inflation rate will exceed economists’ estimates. The  Philippine
Stock Exchange Index  slid the most in more than two months as
investors speculated recent gains were overdone.  “Inflationary expectations are high and the market is
anticipating further measures by the government to damp price
increases,” said Wang Hui, a Changsha, China-based strategist
at Founder Securities Co.  China’s banks declined on speculation the October inflation
rate may be as high as 4.4 percent in a report to be released
tomorrow, putting pressure on the government to boost rates.
China told some lenders, including Bank of Communications Co.,
to increase their reserve ratios by half a percentage point, a
person with direct knowledge of the matter said today.  Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , dropped 2.1
percent in Hong Kong trading, while  Bank of China Ltd.  lost 1.9
percent and  China Construction Bank Corp. , the nation’s second-
biggest lender, fell 1.5 percent. The banks’ Shanghai-traded
shares also tumbled.  “Speculation that the October CPI figure was 4.4 percent
is the main reason that’s driving the market down today,” said
Tu Hai, a strategist at Guoyuan Securities Co. in Shanghai. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists is for
the inflation rate to hit a two-year high of 4 percent.  China raised interest rates in October for the first time
in three years on concerns over growth in asset prices.
Australia and India have also boosted borrowing costs this year.  Profit-Taking  In the Philippines,  Alliance Global Group Inc. , which owns
the second-biggest developer, fell 5.4 percent. DMCI Holdings
Inc., the biggest construction company, tumbled 6.5 percent.  “This is profit-taking pure and simple,” said  James Lago ,
analyst at PCCI Securities Brokers Corp. “Investors are moving
out of stocks that are deemed expensive. Property and energy
companies are among the biggest gainers this year and a number
of these stocks are valued out of the market.”  Benchmark stock gauges in Southeast Asia are among the
world’s best performers this year as the region’s exports
rebounded and investors sought higher yields amid near-zero
benchmark interest rates in the U.S. The rally drove the
Philippine index to 14.8 times earnings, the Jakarta Composite
Index to a multiple of 18.4 and the FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI
Index to 16.3.  Hot Money  South Korea may revive a 14 percent tax on domestic
Treasury and central bank bonds held by foreigners as early as
January to curb foreign-exchange volatility, a ruling party
lawmaker said.  The initiative is part of a series of measures across
Asia aimed at defusing the danger of hot money, or inflows of
capital that push up currency and asset values in the search for
short-term gains. Taiwan yesterday said it will restore curbs on
foreign investment in its debt..  “‘Every policy making community in Asia is considering
capital control,”  Michael Kurtz , head of Asian strategy at
Macquarie Bank Ltd. said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. “It’s clearly not an ideal outcome.”  Korean Stocks  Taiwan’s Ralink Technology Corp. plunged 6.8 percent, the
most since Aug. 21, 2009. Morgan Stanley cut the company’s
share-price estimate to NT$130 from NT$150, citing the outlook
for average selling prices and personal computer demand as well
as the strength of the Taiwan dollar.  South Korea’s Kospi index rose 1.1 percent to 1,967.85, the
highest closing level since Nov. 14, 2007.  Morgan Stanley recommended “cheap” stocks in South Korea
and China and advised reducing holdings in Southeast Asia.  Korean Air Lines Co. , South Korea’s  largest  carrier, rose
3.6 percent. The company wasn’t included among carriers fined a
total of 799.4 million euros by European Union regulators for
coordinating air-cargo fuel and security surcharges.  Samsung Electronics Co. , the second-largest maker of mobile
phones, gained 2.1 percent to 790,000 won, providing the biggest
support to the emerging markets index. Worldwide mobile phone
sales in the third quarter rose 35 percent year-on-year, Gartner
said in a statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Berni Moestafa  in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  