-- Emerging Market Stocks Fall Most in Two Weeks on Chinese Inflation Concern
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2010-11-10T22:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/emerging-market-stocks-fall-most-in-two-weeks-on-chinese-inflation-concern.html
Emerging-market stocks fell the most
in two weeks on concern China will move to cap inflation and
signs Hungary may extend special levies on selected industries
longer than expected.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  slipped 0.6 percent to
1,147.95 at 5:07 p.m. New York time. China’s  Shanghai Composite
Index  fell for a second day, dropping 0.6 percent on concern
October inflation will exceed economists’ estimates. Hungary’s
 BUX index  tumbled 4.7 percent after a draft of the 2011 budget
indicated a crisis tax on companies may be extended until 2014.  Chinese banks declined on speculation the October inflation
rate may be as high as 4.4 percent in a report to be released
tomorrow, putting pressure on the government to boost rates. The
People’s Bank of China told lenders to increase their reserve
ratios by half a percentage point in a statement on its website.  “Inflationary expectations are high and the market is
anticipating further measures by the government to damp price
increases,” said Wang Hui, a Changsha, China-based strategist
at Founder Securities Co.  Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  dropped 1.9
percent in Hong Kong trading and  Bank of China Ltd.  lost 2.9
percent. The banks’ Shanghai-traded shares also slipped.  Hungary’s biggest lender,  OTP Bank Nyrt.,  slid 5.2 percent
and oil refiner  Mol Nyrt.  declined 6 percent after the draft of
the government’s 2011 budget included projections for revenue
from a temporary levy on companies until 2014. The government
had previously said the tax would end in 2012.  Philippine Slide  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index  slid 1.6 percent, the
most since August.  Alliance Global Group Inc. , which owns the
country’s second-biggest developer, fell 5.4 percent  “This is profit-taking pure and simple,” said  James Lago ,
analyst at PCCI Securities Brokers Corp. “Investors are moving
out of stocks that are deemed expensive. Property and energy
companies are among the biggest gainers this year and a number
of these stocks are valued out of the market.”  Benchmark stock gauges in Southeast Asia are among the
world’s best performers this year as the region’s exports
rebounded and investors sought higher yields amid near-zero
benchmark interest rates in the U.S.  Russia’s  Micex  stock index slipped 1.3 percent, losing
ground after six straight days of gains. OAO Norilsk Nickel, the
country’s largest mining company, fell 0.8 percent.  Copper for three-month delivery fell 1.1 percent in trading
on the London Metal Exchange. Nickel and gold also declined in
London trading.  The Korean won appreciated 0.3 percent to 1,110.26 per
dollar, its strongest advance in a week. South Korea may revive
a 14 percent tax on domestic Treasury and central bank bonds
held by foreigners as early as January to curb foreign-exchange
volatility, a ruling party lawmaker said.  Yuan Strengthens  The yuan rose 0.1 percent to 6.6341 per dollar on
speculation the country’s central bank will permit faster
appreciation of the currency. It earlier reached 6.6329, the
strongest level since China unified official and market exchange
rates at the end of 1993.  South Korea’s  Kospi  index rose 1.1 percent to 1,967.85, the
highest closing level since Nov. 14, 2007.  Morgan Stanley recommended “cheap” stocks in South Korea
and China and advised reducing holdings in Southeast Asia.  The  Bovespa  stock index declined 0.1 percent, falling for a
second day, as real-estate companies tumbled on concern
borrowing costs will rise more than previously estimated,
overshadowing a rally in phone companies and steelmakers.  Homebuilder  Rossi Residencial SA  lost 3 percent, helping
the benchmark real-estate stock gauge post the biggest two-day
drop since May, as traders bet on higher interest rates.  Vivo
Participacoes SA , Brazil’s biggest wireless carrier, climbed 3.1
percent, the most in almost three months, after third-quarter
net income jumped 81 percent.  Gerdau SA , Latin America’s largest
steelmaker, rose to the highest price since September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Berni Moestafa  in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  