-- Tencent Profit Rises 52% on China Online Games Sales
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2010-11-10T11:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/tencent-profit-rises-52-on-china-online-games-sales-update1-.html
Tencent Holdings Ltd. , China’s
biggest Internet company by market value, said third-quarter
profit rose 52 percent as sales of online games and advertising
revenue surged.  Net income  climbed to 2.15 billion yuan ($325 million) from
1.42 billion yuan a year earlier, Tencent said in a statement to
the Hong Kong stock exchange today. This compares with the 2.16
billion yuan average of 11 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Tencent boosted sales from online games such as
“Crossfire,” extending its lead over rivals  Shanda Games Ltd. 
and  NetEase.com Inc.  The Shenzhen-based company, whose biggest
shareholder is South Africa’s Naspers Ltd., also sold more
advertising on its website, the second-most visited in China
behind only  Baidu Inc. ’s.  “The company’s online game sales were strong last quarter,
as more students played during the summer holiday season,”  Jake Li , who rates Tencent shares “buy” at Guotai Junan Securities
Co. in Shenzhen, said before the announcement. “The company was
outperforming the overall industry.”  Tencent shares  fell 1.9 percent to HK$178 in Hong Kong
trading today before the earnings announcement. The stock has
gained 5.6 percent this year, compared with the 12 percent
advance in the city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Surging Profit  The company had 636.6 million active user accounts for its
QQ instant-messaging service at the end of September, compared
with 612.5 million three months earlier, it said. The online-
chat program had 18 times more subscribers than  Microsoft
Corp. ’s MSN service in China at the end of last year, according
to research company Analysys International.  Sales of  Internet  value-added services, including online
games and QQ-related subscription fees, rose 57 percent to 4.13
billion yuan, Tencent said. Online advertising sales increased
30 percent to 382.5 million yuan.  “In the near term we think the profits will continue to
surge,” Nomura Holdings Inc. analyst  Jin Yoon  said in an
interview with  Susan Li  in Bloomberg Television’s “First Up”
today. “What’s really driving the company’s growth going
forward is Arpu,” or average revenue per user, Yoon said.  QQ controlled 77 percent of China’s instant-messaging
market as of December 2009, according to Analysys International.
Microsoft’s MSN service had 4.2 percent market share, the
Beijing-based researcher said.  QQ  Tencent said on Nov. 3 that QQ will no longer run on
computers installed with security software made by 360.cn, after
a dispute between the companies. Tencent shares fell the most in
more than two months in Hong Kong on Nov. 4 on concern some
users may abandon the QQ service.  The decision on 360.cn’s software helped to limit risks to
the information security of QQ users, Tencent Chief Executive
Officer  Ma Huateng  told reporters today in Hong Kong. The
dispute with 360.cn was the biggest crisis faced by Tencent in
the past 12 years, and hasn’t been fully resolved, he said.  A product made by 360.cn will disrupt QQ’s malware-
detection features, Tencent said on Nov. 3. Tencent is
deliberately forcing users to uninstall 360.cn’s software, the
security software company said on the same day.  360.cn is the biggest provider of free security software in
China, according to the company’s  website .  Tencent’s QQ.com is the second most-visited site in China,
behind only Baidu, the country’s most-popular search-engine,
according to China Websites Ranking, a site run by the Internet
Society of China that compiles web traffic information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
 Edmond Lococo  in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  