-- Lenovo Profit Gains 44%, Beats Estimates, Helped by Sales in U.S., Europe
-- B y   M a r k   L e e   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2010-11-10T10:14:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/lenovo-profit-gains-44-beats-estimates-helped-by-sales-in-u-s-europe.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. , the maker of
China’s most popular personal computers, reported a better-than-
estimated 44 percent rise in profit in the fiscal second
quarter, helped by sales in the U.S. and Europe.  Net income totaled $76.6 million in the three months ended
Sept. 30, compared with $53.1 million a year earlier, Lenovo
said in a statement today. That beat the $72.6 million average
of seven analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Lenovo outpaced bigger rivals including  Hewlett-Packard Co. 
and Dell Inc. in boosting PC shipments, helped by orders from
companies in the U.S. and Europe and increasing demand in
emerging markets. The maker of Thinkpad laptops joins Microsoft
Corp. and Intel Corp. in benefiting from rising corporate
spending on technology.  “They have been simply the biggest market-share gainers
this year,”  Bhavtosh Vajpayee , who rates Lenovo shares
“outperform” at CLSA Ltd. in Hong Kong, said before the
earnings announcement. Lenovo is “one of the biggest
beneficiaries” as companies upgrade dated computers, he said.  Lenovo shares rose 1.1 percent to close at HK$5.48 in  Hong
Kong  trading before the announcement. The stock has gained 13
percent this year, compared with the 12 percent increase in the
city’s benchmark Hang Seng Index.  Second-quarter revenue rose 41 percent to $5.76 billion,
according to the statement.  Outpacing Industry Growth  Lenovo, based in Raleigh, North Carolina, accounted for
10.3 percent of global PC shipments last quarter, compared with
8.6 percent a year earlier, according to research company IDC.  Hewlett-Packard , the industry leader, saw its market share
drop to 17.6 percent from 19.6 percent, while second-ranked Acer
Inc. declined to 13 percent from 13.5 percent, according to the
Framingham, Massachusetts-based researcher.  Intel, the world’s biggest maker of semiconductors, last
month forecast sales that may beat analysts’ estimates.
Computer-buying by corporations helped the company weather
slumping demand among consumers in the U.S. and Europe, Intel
Chief Financial Officer  Stacy Smith  said at the time.  ‘Very Strong’ Demand  Demand from businesses was “very strong,”  Peter Klein ,
chief financial officer at Microsoft, whose software runs on
most of the world’s PCs, said last month.  Lenovo, which bought the PC division of  International
Business Machines Corp.  in 2005, said gross profit margin, or
the percentage of sales left after deducting the cost of goods
sold, widened to 10.3 percent last quarter from 10.2 percent
three months earlier.  Shipments in Western Europe climbed 43 percent and those in
North America added 41 percent from a year earlier as mature
market revenue accounted for 36 percent of sales, Lenovo said in
a statement today. Emerging market revenue climbed 78 percent
from a year earlier to $1.1 billion, spurred by growth in Russia
and Latin America.  China remained the company’s largest market with 45 percent
of sales, it said. Lenovo Mobile contributed $217 million in
revenue in its first full quarter of operations since it was
bought back, Lenovo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  