-- EPA Issues Carbon Guidance to Help States Enforce Rules
-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 2010-11-10T20:59:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/epa-set-to-release-guidance-on-new-u-s-carbon-rules-advocacy-group-says.html
The Obama administration said states
will decide how power plants and other big polluters should cut
emissions when the first U.S. greenhouse-gas regulations take
effect in January.  The  Environmental Protection Agency  issued guidance today
letting states determine on a case-by-case basis the “best
available control technology” that companies should use to
limit the carbon-dioxide pollution that contributes to climate
change. Energy efficiency, an approach backed by the U.S.
 Chamber of Commerce , probably will emerge as the most cost-
effective approach, the agency said in an e-mailed statement.  U.S. lawmakers including Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West
Virginia Democrat, and states such as Texas have sought to delay
or block the EPA’s carbon rules, arguing they will hurt the
economy. Environmentalists say the guidelines underscore the
agency is seeking to craft practical rules.  “EPA is showing that dealing with greenhouse-gas emissions
is not the bogeyman portrayed by opponents of clean-air
controls,” said  Frank O’Donnell , president of the Washington-
based environmental group  Clean Air Watch .  The EPA is moving forward with plans to regulate carbon
emissions after Congress failed to pass climate-change
legislation. A bill putting a cap on carbon pollution stalled
this year in the U.S. Senate after a “cap-and-trade” measure
passed the House in June 2009. President  Barack Obama  pledged to
regulate carbon using the EPA should Congress fail to act.  ‘Threat to Regulate’  “The Obama administration must now carry out its threat to
regulate,”  Kevin Book , managing director of ClearView Energy
Partners LLC in Washington, said today in a research note.  The administration may be rushing to complete rules before
Republicans take control of the House next year, a move likely
to spur hearings questioning the scientific basis for new
regulations, Book said.  Rockefeller, who wrote legislation to delay the EPA’s
carbon regulations for two years, said the agency’s case-by-case
approach will make it harder for companies to build or expand
their operations and today called on the Senate to pass his
bill.  “Such an unstable regulatory environment prevents
companies from making long range investment decisions,"
Rockefeller said in an e-mail.  Howard Feldman, director of regulatory and scientific
affairs for the Washington-based American Petroleum Institute,
which represent oil and gas companies, said the rules will hurt
business.  ‘‘The EPA is railroading job-killing regulations onto
states, localities and America’s businesses, during a time of
uncertain economic recovery,’’ Feldman said in a statement.  Carbon Capture Unlikey  The environmental agency said it’s unlikely companies will
have to install expensive technologies aimed at capturing and
storing carbon-dioxide emissions.  The EPA’s guidelines say that emissions from producing
ethanol or other fuels made from plants will be treated
differently than greenhouse gases from oil refineries or coal-
burning power stations. The agency said it will issue further
guidance in January on how to assess the environmental and
economic benefits of biomass.  ‘‘Certain biomass feedstocks may be considered carbon-
neutral,” the agency said today. The EPA may “partially or
wholly” exclude emissions from bioenergy and other biogenic
sources in analysis of best control technologies.  The EPA’s carbon regulations are set to begin Jan. 2 and
will apply to new or modified industrial sources of pollution.  Pending Lawsuits  The Obama administration is facing lawsuits over the
pending rules, which were crafted after EPA Administrator  Lisa Jackson  declared greenhouse gases a public threat last year. The
“endangerment finding” followed a 2007 Supreme Court ruling
stating that EPA had the power to regulate carbon emissions as a
pollutant under the 1970 Clean Air Act.  Texas has challenged the EPA’s rules and told the agency in
August that it doesn’t plan to comply with them.  “We are disappointed that Texas hasn’t engaged in this
process,” EPA Assistant Administrator  Gina McCarthy  told
reporters today on a conference call.  McCarthy rejected claims that the first-ever nationwide
U.S. limits on carbon pollution will hurt businesses.  “The Clean Air Act for 40 years has found a way to issue
permits in a way that allows the economy to grow,” she said.
“We aren’t going to stop that with the greenhouse-gas” best-
available process.  The  National Association of Clean Air Agencies , which
represents state and local environmental regulators, praised the
EPA’s guidance.  ‘Greater Certainty’  The agency is providing industry “greater certainty,
quicker permitting decisions and a smoother path toward
greenhouse-gas implementation,” Bill Becker, the Washington-
based group’s executive director, said in a statement. “This
should put to rest the exaggerated claims of some stakeholders
that greenhouse-gas permitting will have disastrous economic
consequences.”  The difficulty of crafting the carbon regulations was
evident earlier this year when the panel advising the EPA on the
issue became deadlocked over what pollution-cutting technology
power plants, factories and other sources should be required to
use.  After almost a year of talks, the working group couldn’t
reconcile “divergent points of view,” according to a copy of
its September report to the EPA. Companies represented on the
panel included utilities  American Electric Power Co . and
Southern Co. It also included officials from national
environmental groups and state regulatory agencies.  Under the Clean Air Act, the EPA’s definition of best-
available technology is a guidance document, not a rulemaking,
for the state and local authorities. The Clean Air Act requires
states to implement EPA rules through a permitting process.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kim Chipman  in Washington at 
 Kchipman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 LLiebert@bloomberg.net . 