-- Merck Restarts Cholesterol Race Four Years After Pfizer Failure
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 2010-11-10T21:06:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/merck-restarts-cholesterol-race-four-years-after-pfizer-failure.html
Merck & Co. is betting it can
succeed where  Pfizer  Inc. failed, with a new type of drug to
combat heart disease by raising good cholesterol levels.  Merck, based in Whitehouse Station, New Jersey, will report
results from an advanced trial of its drug next week, four years
after Pfizer abandoned a similar pill linked to heart attacks.  The new treatments could be the biggest advance against
heart disease in the two decades since the arrival of statins, a
group of drugs led by New York-based Pfizer’s Lipitor. Results
showing Merck’s pill doesn’t cause the same side effects that
sidelined Pfizer’s good cholesterol pill may propel Merck into a
$15 billion annual market, according to Decision Resources.  Merck’s medication “is looking to be a very promising
agent,” said  Rory Collins , co-director of the University of
Oxford’s Clinical Trial Service Unit in England. “Raising good
cholesterol could be an enormous public health benefit. But it’s
still a big gamble.”  Merck shares declined 9 cents to $34.96 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has increased 4
percent in the past 12 months.  The new drug is in a family of medicines known as  CETP
inhibitors , designed to boost levels of HDL that flush fat
deposits from arteries to the liver to be purged from the body.
 Statins  work by decreasing levels of LDL, or bad cholesterol,
that clogs arteries and leads to heart attacks.  Heart Meeting  Research on Merck’s new drug, anacetrapib, will be
presented next week at the  American Heart Association  meeting in
Chicago, reviving a race to treat heart disease by raising HDL.  Merck’s study will be the first advanced research to emerge
from the family of medicines known as CETP inhibitors since New
York-based Pfizer’s pill torcetrapib failed. Roche Holding AG of
Basel, Switzerland, and Eli Lilly & Co., based in Indianapolis,
are testing similar pills.  Cardiovascular disease, the leading cause of deaths in the
U.S., kills about 830,000 people a year, according to the
American Heart Association. As many as 100 million Americans
have a deficit of good cholesterol, increasing their risk for
heart attacks and strokes, said  Scott Wright , a cardiologist at
the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, in a telephone
interview.  “We’ve done all we can do with lowering LDL cholesterol,
and the residual risk remains high,” Wright said. “Being thin,
getting weight down, exercising and eating healthy are the best
ways to raise HDL, but those are challenging for most people. We
probably need medication to help the lifestyle changes.”  Pfizer Failure  Four years ago,  Pfizer  abandoned a good-cholesterol drug it
spent $1 billion to develop after a study found it caused
deaths. An analysis found patients taking it were 60 percent
more likely to die than those who didn’t receive it.  Pfizer’s pill failed because it unexpectedly increased
levels of a hormone called  aldosterone , linked to fatty plaque
buildup and high blood pressure.  “Cardiovascular disease is largely preventable,” Pfizer
spokesman  Ray Kerins  said in an e-mailed statement. “Pfizer’s
current and future portfolio of medicines in this therapeutic
area focuses on the control of the risk factors inherent in
smoking, diet, physical inactivity and Type 2 diabetes.”  Merck paused its own research after Pfizer’s torcetrapib
setback to scour ongoing studies for signals of hypertension and
design a new safety trial, called  Define . Merck’s anacetrapib is
now in the third and final stage of tests generally needed for
U.S. approval.  ‘Bar is Raised’  “With torcetrapib and the toxicity that was observed, the
bar is raised in terms of having to really demonstrate a
benefit,” said Yale Mitchel, Merck’s vice president of
cardiovascular disease research, in a telephone interview.  Results next week are from the Define trial, which followed
1,800 people for 18 months to examine safety and ability to
alter cholesterol levels. Based on this trial, Merck began
planning its final study, and may seek U.S. approval after 2015.  “With the right kind of outcome, the market could be
billions and billions of dollars,” said  Barbara Ryan , an
analyst with Deutsche Bank in New York, in a telephone
interview.  Merck’s results will hint at the potential for Roche to
succeed with dalcetrapib, in the same family of medicines. Roche
has said it will release initial results next year from three
final studies and may seek U.S. clearance in 2012.  ‘Game Changer’  “The CETP inhibitor is a potential game changer for this
company,” with the potential to generate as much as Pfizer’s
Lipitor, the best-selling drug in the world with $11.4 billion
in sales last year, Roche Chief Executive Officer  Severin Schwan , said during a July 22 conference call. “It has its
risks, but we are fully committed.”  Lilly  is in the second of three stages of testing its drug
in the same family of medicines, according to the U.S. web site
that tracks studies. Lilly spokeswoman  Judy Moore  said the
company had no comment on its cardiovascular drugs in
development.  People with the highest levels of HDL are least likely to
have heart attacks or die from cardiac disease, said  Jorge
Plutzky , director of the vascular disease prevention program at
Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston.  Cutting LDL by 1 percent reduces heart disease risk by the
same amount, he said. Boosting HDL 1 percent can curb risk by as
much as 3 percent, potentially making this approach more
effective, he said.  “It seems as if you get a bigger bang for the buck in
changing HDL,” Plutzky said in a telephone interview. “We just
haven’t been as successful as we would like in doing that. We
ultimately just have to see where the data takes us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michelle Fay Cortez  in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net 
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  