-- Merck, Abbott, Microsoft: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-11-10T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/merck-royal-caribbean-microsoft-intellectual-property.html
Merck & Co. ’s Schering-Plough unit
won an appeals court ruling that revives its effort to block
 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.  from selling a generic form
of the brain-cancer drug Temodar until 2013.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
Washington said in an opinion yesterday that a judge erred in
ruling the patent unenforceable and sent the case back for
further proceedings.  Teva, the world’s biggest generic-drug company, said it
won’t sell copies of Temodar during the appeal. The two sides
agreed that if Merck won, Teva could begin selling the copy in
August 2013, six months before the patent expires. Temodar,
approved by U.S. regulators in 1999, generated $799 million in
global sales during the first nine months of this year, Merck
said Oct. 29.  “The court appropriately ruled that the patent for Temodar
in the U.S. is enforceable,” Bruce N. Kuhlik, general counsel
of Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based Merck, said in a
statement yesterday. “We invest heavily in R&D to discover
innovative medicines like Temodar, and we will vigorously defend
our intellectual property rights.”  Denise Bradley, a spokeswoman for Teva, said the Petah
Tikva, Israel-based company had no comment.  U.S. District Judge Sue L. Robinson in Wilmington,
Delaware, ruled in January that Schering-Plough and British
licensor  Cancer Research Technology Ltd.  delayed pursuit of the
patent too long and didn’t provide sufficient information to the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  The Federal Circuit, in a 2-1 decision, said no one was
harmed from the more than nine years it took Cancer Research to
obtain the patent and that there was no intent to deceive the
agency when the inventor failed to disclose a paper he had
written about the compound.  The case is Cancer Research Technology Ltd. v. Barr
Laboratories Inc., 2010-1204, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is Cancer
Research Technology Ltd. v. Barr Laboratories Inc., 07-cv-457,
U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Abbott, Bayer Ask Court to Narrow Patent-Misconduct Standard  Abbott Laboratories  urged a U.S. appeals court to make it
harder for companies to block patent owners from enforcing their
intellectual property rights because of misconduct in obtaining
the patent.  “When people are making minor mistakes and the patent
would have been issued anyway, the public is not harmed,” John
Whealan, a law professor who is representing Abbott in the case,
told the nine-judge U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit in Washington yesterday.  The court, which specializes in patent law, is trying to
find a standard that judges can use to determine when inventors
have committed inequitable conduct at the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office. The legal argument has often been used by
generic-drug companies to challenge patents on medicines.  The case before the court is an appeal involving an  Abbott 
dispute with  Becton, Dickinson & Co.  and Bayer AG’s health-care
unit over a glucose-monitor design. An Abbott patent was deemed
unenforceable as punishment for the Abbott Park, Illinois-based
company giving contradictory information to the U.S. and
European patent offices on the same invention.  Whealan, the patent office’s former top lawyer who’s now an
associate dean at George Washington University, said the court
should have patents deemed unenforceable only if there has been
fraud that was committed to obtain the patent.  His successor at the patent office, Raymond Chen, said that
if it was too difficult to prove inequitable conduct, patentees
could “engage in gamesmanship and mischief.”  Chen said he wants the standard limited because the patent
office is overwhelmed with inventors presenting too much data
for fear they would later be found to have withheld information.  Allegations of inequitable conduct are raised in about a
third of lawsuits, yet sustained in few, said Circuit Judge
Pauline Newman. Chen called it a “plague” in litigation.  A lawyer for Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer, Rachel
Krevans from San Francisco’s Morrison & Foerster LLP, said only
four cases of inequitable conduct have been upheld by the
Federal Circuit, and judges have the option of throwing the
issue out.  Sanofi-Aventis SA ’s patent on a $4 billion-a-year drug, the
blood-thinner Lovenox, was ruled unenforceable when an appeals
court in 2008 found the Paris-based company misled the U.S.
patent office. The court, in a 2-1 decision, said Sanofi
withheld information on studies that compared the active
ingredient of Lovenox with a related compound to ensure the
patent office believed the two were different.  The Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America,
which represents drugmakers including  Pfizer Inc.  and  Merck &
Co. , urged the court to clarify the standard.  “The oft-cited justification for the inequitable conduct
doctrine is to deter fraudulent conduct before the PTO,” the
trade group said in a filing on the case. “In its present form,
however, the doctrine has spiraled out of control.”  Federal Circuit judges have been open with their belief
that the legal argument is overused. Chief Judge Randall Rader,
in the April issue of the American University Law Review, said
inequitable conduct has grown “from a tiny bush on the patent
landscape that inhibited gross fraud into a ubiquitous weed that
infects every prosecution and litigation involving patents.”  The case is Therasense Inc. v. Becton, Dickinson & Co.,
2008-1511, -1512, -1513, -1514, -1595, U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Federal Circuit (Washington).  TiVo Accuses Dish of Manipulating Legal System in Patent Case  TiVo Inc.  accused  Dish Network Corp.  and  EchoStar Corp.  of
manipulating the legal system to avoid complying with court
orders to stop offering digital-video recording services that
violate TiVo’s patent.  Dish asked  the nine-member U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit in Washington yesterday to consider whether U.S.
District Judge David Folsom erred in not granting a full trial,
rather than a hearing, to determine if changes made to the
company’s software effectively worked around the TiVo patent. A
2-1 panel said in March a hearing was adequate.  “They have disregarded every provision” of an order that
they stop infringing the TiVo patent, said Seth Waxman, a lawyer
at WilmerHale who represents Alviso, California-based TiVo.
“EchoStar continues to violate this patent with devices that
already had their day in court.”  The lawsuit accused Dish of violating TiVo’s patent for
“time warp” technology that lets users record a TV program and
play it back at the same time. Dish, which is under court order
to stop DVR service, has continued to provide the feature,
saying it made alterations to bypass TiVo’s invention.  “This device is more than colorably different” from the
one that was before the jury in the 2006 trial, Josh Rosenkranz,
a Dish lawyer at Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP in New York,
told the court. “EchoStar has removed the features that TiVo
said infringed. In order to do that, EchoStar had to innovate.”  TiVo has said it will be entitled to about $300 million in
damages and contempt sanctions through July 1, 2009, and it will
seek more cash for infringement after that date. That’s in
addition to $100 million Dish paid TiVo after the original
appeals court ruling.  The appeal is TiVo v. EchoStar, 2009-1374, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower-court
case is TiVo Inc. v. EchoStar Communications Corp., 04-cv-01,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas (Marshall).  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Royal Caribbean Accused of Infringing Florida Artist’s Work  Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. , which took delivery of the
world’s largest cruise ship Oct. 28, was sued for copyright
infringement by a Coral Gables, Florida-based artist.  Humberto Benitez  said he was approached in 2007 by an art
consultant for the Miami-based cruise line who was seeking two
murals to be installed in a bar aboard a ship under
construction.  He sent two e-mailed images of his work to the consultant,
after which he said he received a request for a formal proposal
for creating the murals. Benitez estimated the cost to be about
$140,000 and sent a proposal to that effect, according to the
complaint filed Nov. 8 in federal court in Miami.  In May 2007, Benitez was informed his work wasn’t chosen,
and after his images were returned, he heard no more from the
consultant, he said in his pleadings.  Benitez said he and 15 family members and friends sailed on
the ship in May as part of his 50th birthday celebration. There
he discovered what he claims are unauthorized derivative copies
of the images he provided the art consultant. He never
authorized the cruise line to copy his work, he said in his
complaint.  He contends that the cruise line paid “another inferior
artist ” to create a “similar, yet subpar derivative copy” of
his work. Benitez said the murals are “woefully inferior” and
a “poor replication” of his work, and that cruise line
passengers may mistakenly believe “such poor works of art” are
attributable to him.  He asked the court for money damages and awards of attorney
fees and litigation costs and for an order barring the cruise
line from using any unauthorized copies of his work.  Benitez is represented by  Glen H. Waldman  and  Celina E.
Contreras  of  Heller Waldman PL  of Coconut Grove, Florida.  The case is Humberto Benitez v. Royal Caribbean Cruises
Ltd., 1:10-cv-24029-PAS, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of Florida (Miami).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Microsoft Seeks ‘Onpoint,’ ‘Onit’ Trademarks  Microsoft Corp. , the world’s largest software company,
filed an application to register “onpoint” as a trademark,
according to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office.  According to the application, filed Nov. 2, Microsoft plans
to use this mark for providing information on various topics to
women. In August the Redmond, Washington-based software company
applied to register “onit” for a website portal for topics of
interest to men.  In another new trademark filing, Microsoft seeks to
register the phrase “Microsoft Be What’s Next” for a broad
range of goods and services including publications, clothing,
providing multiple-user access to the Internet, and computer
services. That application also was filed Nov. 2.  Trademark for Sustainably Produced Palm Products Introduced  The  Roundable on Sustainable Palm Oil  designed a trademark
that will help consumers distinguish products containing palm
ingredients that are from sustainable and socially responsible
sources, the organization said in a statement at its meeting in
Jakarta this week.  Palm oil is used as an ingredient in candles, cosmetics,
cleaning products, food products and as a source of biofuel.
Increasing demand for palm oil has led to deforestation in
tropical areas and loss of habitat for endangered species such
as orangutans.  The mark will be available to product manufacturers and
retailers in early 2011, according to the statement. It’s
intended to encourage more companies to commit to using only
certified sustainable palm oil.  The Roundtable is an organization of almost 400 palm
growers, palm oil processors and traders, retailers, investors
and non-governmental organizations such as  Oxfam International 
and  World Wildlife Fund .  For more trademark news, click here.  Obituary  Barbara Caulfield, IP Litigator, Former Judge Dies at 62  Barbara A. Caulfield , who practiced intellectual-property
and technology litigation at Silicon Valley firms and was the
general counsel of a biotechnology company, died of cancer
yesterday at the age of 62, her firm said in a  statement .  At the time of her death, Caulfield was a partner at the
Silicon Valley office of New York’s  Kaye Scholer LLP , which she
joined in July from  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP , also of New York.  She was a partner at the now-defunct San Francisco firm
Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison, and also had been a partner at Los
Angeles-based  Latham & Watkins LLP  and San Francisco’s  Orrick,
Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP .  In 1991, President George H.W. Bush appointed her to U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of California, where
she served for three years. When she left the bench to join
Latham, she said her motivation for returning to private
practice was the need to provide financial security for the care
of a disabled daughter.  Caulfield worked for five years as vice president and
general counsel at  Affymetrix Inc.  of Santa Clara, California, a
maker of products used in genetic analysis. She left Affymetrix
in 2008 to join Dewey & LeBoeuf.  Caulfield also taught law at the University of Oregon, and
the University of California, Hastings College of Law.  She received both her undergraduate and her law degree from
Northwestern University.  According to the firm, no information about a memorial
service is available. Memorial donations may be made to the
 Women’s Cancer Resource Center  of Oakland, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 