-- Merkel Wins Economic-Panel Backing on Trade Imbalances as She Goes to G-20
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2010-11-10T11:47:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/merkel-wins-economic-panel-backing-on-trade-imbalances-as-she-goes-to-g-20.html
The German government’s economic
advisory panel said private consumption is beginning to balance
out export growth, offering Chancellor  Angela Merkel  ammunition
as she prepares to confront Group of 20 critics.  Germany, the world’s  biggest exporter  after China, will see
foreign sales of products and services soar 15.5 percent this
year and by 6.7 percent in 2011, the government’s council of
economic advisers forecast in its annual report released today.
At the same time, imports will climb 13.3 percent this year and
6.8 percent in 2011, the panel said.  “Strong domestic consumption not only helps compensate for
insecurities in the  export sector , it also contributes to
breaking down international imbalances,” the five-person panel,
chaired by Wolfgang Franz, said in a faxed statement.  Merkel left for the G-20 summit in Seoul today intent on
defending Germany’s trade surplus against accusations by the
U.S. and others that Europe’s biggest economy risks harming
global growth by exporting its way out of recession. She aimed a
parting shot at U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ’s
proposal to end currency conflicts by putting in place targets
to shrink current-account gaps.  “We reject quantitative targets for imbalances for good
reason,” Merkel told reporters in Berlin today. In Seoul, “the
issue of competitiveness has to be on the agenda, explicitly the
issue of exports.”  Euro’s Rise  The government panel warned that tensions over imbalances
risk greater protectionism and a rise in the value of the euro,
which has already climbed 14 percent against the U.S. dollar in
the last five months. Merkel told Die Welt newspaper in an
interview published today that the euro shouldn’t bear the brunt
of a “one-sided adjustment burden.”  Merkel’s comments still mark a step back from the tone set
by her Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , who is accompanying
her to Seoul.  Schaeuble took a swipe at U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  in a Nov. 5 speech, saying the Fed’s injection of $600
billion was “clueless” and won’t revive growth. He compared
the Fed’s bond purchases under so-called quantitative easing to
China’s restrictions on its currency, saying the measure will
contribute to imbalances by driving down the dollar.  “We will discuss this issue with United States in a spirit
of partnership,” Merkel said today. “We don’t want to have new
asset bubbles and rather want to ensure that growth remains
sustainable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  