-- Terror Trial Location Choice Close in Sept. 11 Case
-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 2010-11-10T22:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/terrorism-trial-site-decision-is-near-in-sept-11-case-u-s-s-holder-says.html
The Obama administration is close to
selecting a trial location for  Khalid Sheikh Mohammed , the
accused mastermind of the Sept. 11 terror attacks, said Attorney
General  Eric Holder .  “We have been working on it and I think we’re close to a
decision,” Holder told reporters in Washington today.  Holder and President  Barack Obama  announced last year a
plan to try  Mohammed  and four alleged co-conspirators in federal
court in New York about a quarter-mile from where the World
Trade Center towers stood. The administration began
reconsidering that decision after New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  in January said he wanted the trial moved.  In April, Holder said the administration was still
considering New York City as a site for a trial and that other
locations were under review as well. At the time, Holder said
the administration hadn’t decided whether to hold the trial
before a military commission or in a civilian court.  Holder’s remarks today came in response to questions at a
brief news conference after meetings with Canadian officials on
cross-border crime.  Human Rights Watch , an international advocacy group, is
running television commercials in New York City taxicabs
featuring residents explaining why they think the trial should
be held in the city.  In response to Holder’s comments, U.S. Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat, said in a statement: “The trial
should not and will not be in New York.” Representative  Peter King , a New York Republican, issued a statement urging the
attorney general to try the suspects in a military commission at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.  Bloomberg originally supported a trial in Manhattan. In
January, he said he wanted the trial moved, citing concerns
about costs and disruptions to traffic and commerce. The New
York mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Justin Blum  in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  