-- Met Museum to Return Tutankhamen's Bronze Dog, Sphinx, Egypt Council Says
-- B y   D i g b y   L i d s t o n e
-- 2010-11-10T12:04:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/met-museum-to-return-tutankhamen-s-bronze-dog-sphinx-egypt-council-says.html
The  Metropolitan Museum of Art  in
New York has agreed to repatriate a collection of ancient
Egyptian objects including a lapis-lazuli sphinx that once
adorned a bracelet worn by King Tutankhamen, Egypt’s  Supreme
Council of Antiquities  said.  Curators at the museum have established that all 19
antiquities, which also include a three-quarter-inch-high bronze
dog, come from the tomb of the boy-pharaoh, which was discovered
by Howard Carter in 1922 in the Valley of the Kings, according
to an e-mailed statement. They are among a number of objects
that were acquired by the Met after the deaths of Carter and
Lord Carnarvon, the English earl who sponsored the expedition.  “The objects will go on display with the Tutankhamen
exhibition at Times Square, where they will stay until
January,” the head of the council,  Zahi Hawass , said in the
statement. After a further six months on show in New York they
will return to Egypt, to be housed in a new museum being built
on the Giza plateau.  The Egyptian government is on a quest to recover ancient
artifacts from abroad. At the top of its wish-list are the
Rosetta Stone, which is housed in the  British Museum , and a bust
of Nefertiti that is kept by the Neues Museum in Berlin.
Tourism, which accounts for 12.6 percent of jobs, is one of the
country’s main sources of foreign currency and brought in $10.76
billion last year, according to the tourism ministry.  “Because of precise legislation relating to that
excavation, these objects were never meant to have left Egypt,
and therefore should rightfully belong to the government of
Egypt,”  Thomas P. Campbell , director of the museum, said in a
 news release  posted today on the Met’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Digby Lidstone  in Cairo at 
 dlidstone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 