-- Euroclear Seeks Link With Moscow to Bolster OFZs: Russia Credit
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-11-11T15:55:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/euroclear-seeks-link-with-moscow-to-bolster-ofzs-russia-credit.html
Euroclear Bank SA, owner of the
world’s largest system for settling bonds, is trying to step up
its access to Russia’s domestic debt market, a move investors
say may boost demand for ruble notes sold by the government.  A direct link with Euroclear would allow investors to buy
and sell Russian bonds without the need for a local trading
account, currently required under Russian law, Bart Wauters, the
Euroclear director responsible for Russia, said in an interview.
The Brussels-based agency will begin a study into the
technological and legal requirements for establishing the link
over the next few weeks, Wauters said.  “We’re seeing more internationalization of the Russian
market and more demand from clients wanting to buy Russian
assets,” Wauters said on Nov. 2. “While most investment banks
have their own subsidiaries, the smaller ones don’t and here we
have a growing number that are pushing us to open the link.”  The difference in yields between ruble bonds sold by
companies through Euroclear and Clearstream International SA,
the settlement unit owned by Deutsche Boerse AG, and those sold
through the local settlement system suggests Russia may be able
to cut the cost of issuing ruble debt.  OAO Russian Railways  and  OAO RusHydro  are among six
companies that have ruble-denominated debt settled by Euroclear
or Clearstream. Ruble bonds settled by these bodies yield as
much as 105 basis points, or 1.05 percentage points, less than
ruble debt of a similar maturity issued by the companies or by
other Russian corporations with the same credit rating settled
locally, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Selling OFZs  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, plans to boost
sales of ruble-denominated federal bonds, known as OFZs and
traded on Moscow’s  Micex  exchange, to a record 1.3 trillion
rubles ($424 billion) next year. The Finance Ministry auctions
OFZs every week and started issuing yield guidance for the first
time in September in a bid to improve transparency.  Allowing the bonds to be settled by systems that process
the bulk of the world’s Eurobonds might broaden the pool of
investors ready to buy the debt and raise prices.  “It would make the OFZ market more liquid, they’d get a
more diverse investor base and it gives them a better chance at
lower yields,”  Kieran Curtis , who helps manage $2 billion of
emerging-market debt at Aviva Investors, a unit of the U.K.’s
second-biggest insurer, said by e-mail from London on Nov. 3.  Eurobond Sale  The government has said it may pursue as much as $3 billion
from a sale of ruble Eurobonds this month. Those securities are
different to OFZs and would already trade through international
settlement systems. Andrey Matveev, a spokesman for the Finance
Ministry in Moscow, didn’t respond to e-mailed questions.  Russia at the same time is easing restrictions on foreign
investors. The Micex exchange plans to curb requirements to buy
and sell bonds through local brokers, cut the number of trading
accounts needed and merge settlement systems into a single unit,
Alexander Ageev, director of non-resident client relations, said
last month. The exchange also will extend the period for
settling trades to three days from the same day to bring Russia
in line with global standards, Ageev said.  The ruble climbed as much as 0.6 percent to 30.4675 per
dollar in Moscow today, the strongest since Oct. 26 and closed
up 0.2 percent at 30.58. Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs,
which provide a guide to expectations of currency movements and
interest rate differentials and allow companies to hedge, show
the ruble at 30.8360 per dollar in three months.  ‘Huge’ for Ruble  Making locally settled ruble debt accessible to foreign
investors would be “huge” for the ruble, according to  Luis Costa , an emerging-markets credit strategist at Citigroup Inc.  “Penetration of real money accounts in the Russian OFZ
markets is still tiny,” he said by e-mail from London. A
Euroclear link would “create a new wave of demand for the
currency.”  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps rose 3 basis points to 138
points yesterday, down from this year’s peak of 217 points,
according to data provider CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a debtor fail to adhere to its agreements.  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade rating,
cost 9 basis points more than contracts for Turkey, which is
rated four levels lower at Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40
points less on April 20.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries rose seven basis points to 212
points, according to JPMorgan EMBI+ indexes. The difference
compares with 141 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 176 for
Brazil, which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 37 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan Indexes.  Attracting Money  Investments in developing-nation debt have surged to a
record $47 billion this year, according to Boston-based research
firm EPFR Global, as near-zero interest rates in the U.S. and
Japan spur investors to seek out the higher yields of local
currency bonds in emerging markets.  The Russian government is issuing OFZs to help trim a
 budget shortfall  forecast to be 5.3 percent of gross domestic
product this year and 3.6 percent in 2011. Last year’s deficit,
the first in a decade, was 5.9 percent of GDP.  “Russia can’t just rely on their local banks now given the
massive supply coming ahead for the budget deficit financing,”
said  Sergey Dergachev , who helps manage the equivalent of $8.5
billion of emerging market debt, including Russian corporate
bonds, at Union Investments Privatfonds in Frankfurt. “Making
bonds Euroclearable will automatically mean that international
investors will become an important market player.”  14-Year Hiatus  While Russia has $29 billion of dollar-denominated debt
accessible to foreign investors via Euroclear or Clearstream,
the Finance Ministry hasn’t issued ruble bonds that can be
settled internationally since 1996, according to Martin Gregson,
Brussels-based spokesman for Euroclear.  Russia’s total local debt market is 6.5 trillion rubles, or
about 30 percent of the 1.21 trillion-real ($707.4 billion)
market in Brazil, Bloomberg data show.  Bonds due 2012 issued by Red Arrow International Leasing,
the unit of Russian Railways created to sell Eurobonds, are
settled by both Euroclear and Clearstream and yielded 5.48
percent yesterday.  Russian Railways locally settled ruble notes due 2012
yielded 6.53 percent yesterday, pushing the yield spread on the
two bonds to 105 basis points, the widest since Oct. 29.  Ruble Eurobonds sold internationally by RusHydro, Russia’s
largest producer of renewable energy, were priced to yield 7.875
percent when they were issued on Oct. 22.  That compared with a yield of 8.3 percent on five-year
domestic bonds sold three days earlier by OAO VimpelCom, the
nation’s second-biggest mobile phone operator. Both are rated
BB+ by Standard & Poor’s, the highest non-investment grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma O’Brien  in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 