-- Europe Commodity Day Ahead: Copper Falls; Cotton at Records in U.S., China
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 ]   J a r r e t t   B a n k s   [ ]
-- 2010-11-10T05:34:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/europe-commodity-day-ahead-copper-falls-cotton-at-records-in-u-s-china.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  ECONOMIC EVENTS, AGRICULTURE REPORTS:  
EXCLUSIVES:  China Unlikely to Sell Stockpiled Copper, Morgan Stanley Says  China, which has sold aluminum and zinc from government
reserves this year, isn’t likely to sell copper even as prices
gain, according to Peter Richardson, chief metals economist at
Morgan Stanley Australia Ltd.  Sugar Exports by India to Top Forecasts on Output, Survey Shows  Sugar shipments from India, the world’s biggest consumer,
may beat predictions as production exceeds usage for the first
time in three years, a survey shows.  Copper Ranks First as Morgan Stanley Says Metals to Extend Jump  Copper will lead a rally in base metals into 2011 as
increased consumption cuts stockpiles and weaker currencies spur
investment demand for commodities, according to Morgan Stanley .  Thai Rubber Prices May Climb to Record as Floods Reduce Supply  Rubber prices in Thailand , the world’s largest producer
and exporter of the commodity, may rally to a record by the end
of this year after flooding devastated plantations in the
country’s south.  China May Restrict Fertilizer Exports for Own Use, Analyst Says  China may cut exports of fertilizers including urea and
diammonium phosphate this year to boost local supplies and lower
prices after some cooking oils, cotton, sugar and rubber surged
to records this week, an analyst said.  Fonterra Plans ‘Multiple’ Dairy Investments in China, CEO Says  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. the world’s largest dairy
exporter, plans to boost its investments in farms and plants in
China to benefit from surging demand.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Drops for First Day in Five as China Demand Outlook Dims  Copper futures in London fell for the first day in five,
declining from near a record as China’s imports of the metal
slumped and on speculation that the Chinese government will step
up measures to rein in asset prices.  Collahuasi Says Copper Shipments Can Continue ‘Various Weeks’  Anglo American Plc and Xstrata Plc can continue to ship
copper from its Collahuasi venture in northern Chile for
“various weeks” during a strike by unionized workers, a
company spokeswoman said.  China October Copper Imports Drop to 1-Year Low  Copper imports by China, the world’s largest consumer,
declined for the second month to the lowest level in a year, as
high international prices and ample domestic supplies reduced
the appeal of buying from overseas.  MINING:  China Oct Iron Ore Imports Fall on Steel Output Cuts  Iron ore imports to China, the largest buyer of the
steelmaking ingredient, declined 13 percent in October after a
five-day holiday and as the government took measures to curb
steel production.  Iron-Ore Pricing Changes Cause Smaller Shipments, Baosteel Says  The introduction of quarterly pricing for iron ore is
causing steelmakers to organize smaller shipments, Dai Zhihao,
vice president at Baosteel Group Corp., said today at a
conference in Guangzhou, China.  Surging Rare-Earth Prices Spur Mining in Kazakhstan  Surging rare-earth prices are spurring developments of
deposits in Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Greenland as China cuts
exports of the metals used in BlackBerrys, televisions and
Toyota Motor Corp.’s hybrid cars.  PRECIOUS METALS, MINERALS:  Gold Advances on Investor Demand for Alternative to Currencies  Gold climbed on speculation that European governments may
struggle to pay debt, which boosted demand for the precious
metal as an alternative to currencies.  Zoellick Says Currency Tensions May Increase Protectionism  Currency tensions may increase protectionism, World Bank
President Robert Zoellick told reporters in Singapore today,
adding that he doesn’t see a currency war developing. Zoellick
also said he’s not advocating a return to the gold standard.  AGRICULTURE:  Palm Oil Extends Rally to 27-Month High as Soybeans Advance  Palm oil climbed for a fourth day to a 27-month high on
concern that U.S. supplies of soybeans may be smaller than
previously forecast, likely reducing supplies of the rival
cooking oil.  China Wheat Shows ‘Emerging Signs’ of Drought, Ministry Says  Winter wheat crops in northern an eastern China have showed
“emerging signs” of drought after receiving below-average rain
since planting, the Ministry of Agriculture said, without
elaborating.  U.S. Beef Exporters Urge Speed, Not Changes, in Korea Trade Pact  American beef exporters  are pushing the Obama
administration and Congress to approve a pending trade agreement
with South Korea  without delay rather than hold out for
concessions on their behalf.  SOFT COMMODITIES:  Cotton Advances to a Record on China Shortages, Global Supply  Cotton futures advanced to record in New York after the U.S.
government cut its estimate on global production and inventories
and cited a shortage in China, the world’s biggest buyer and
consumer.  Rubber Extends Rally to 30-Year High, Shanghai Price at Record  Rubber futures in Tokyo extended a rally to a 30-year high,
while futures in Shanghai surged to a record on concern that
rainfall across Southeast Asia will further squeeze tight supply
and after China’s car sales soared.  China October Natural Rubber Imports 160,000 Tons, Customs Says  China imported 160,000 metric tons of natural rubber in
October, the country’s customs authority said. The Asian nation
also imported 3.7 million tons soybeans and 530,000 tons of
vegetable oil, customs said on its website today.  Queensland Sugar Cuts Export Forecast as Rainfall Reduces Yields  Queensland Sugar Ltd., Australia’s largest shipper of the
commodity, cut its export forecast to “closer to” 2.6 million
metric tons compared with an initial estimate of 2.9 million to
3 million tons because of rainfall, the company said in an e-
mailed statement today.  Bahia Cocoa Output May Be Higher Than Forecast, Hartmann Says  Cocoa production in Bahia, Brazil’s biggest growing region,
may be more than forecast after higher prices spurred farmers to
boost use of fertilizers and pesticides, said analyst Thomas
Hartmann.  ECONOMICS:  China’s Trade Surplus Jumps to $27 Billion; Reserve Ratio Climbs  China posted a larger-than-forecast $27.1 billion October
trade surplus, a day before Group of 20 leaders including
Presidents Barack Obama and Hu Jintao meet in Seoul to tackle
global imbalances in spending and capital flows.  Fed Backlash May Boost BOJ View on More Debt Buying  The backlash against Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke’s plans to buy an additional $600 billion of U.S.
Treasuries may stiffen the Bank of Japan ‘s resolve against more
aggressive monetary easing steps.  OTHER MARKETS:  Asian Stocks Fall on China Inflation Concern; Yuan Climbs,  Asian stocks fell, dragging the region’s benchmark index to
the biggest loss in two weeks, after a gain in Chinese property
prices spurred speculation regulators will step up curbs on
asset bubbles. Treasuries rose, with 30-year bonds rebounding
from their steepest loss in two months.  Oil Falls for a Second Day as China’s Crude Imports Decline  Oil declined for a second day in New York after data showed
that China’s crude imports dropped to an 18-month low and the
dollar strengthened against the euro, curbing investor demand
for raw materials. 