-- Europe Swaps Diverge as Default Concern Spreads: Credit Markets
-- B y   B r y a n   K e o g h
-- 2010-11-11T16:17:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/europe-swaps-diverge-as-default-concern-spreads-credit-markets.html
Company bonds in Europe are the
riskiest compared with U.S. securities since May as concern
increases that the euro-region’s most indebted governments will
need a bailout, further damaging the economy.  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of credit-default swaps on
125 investment-grade companies climbed to 105 basis points this
week, compared with 92 basis points for the Markit CDX North
America Investment Grade Index. Contracts on Bank of Ireland and
Allied Irish Banks Plc, Ireland’s biggest lenders, soared to
records on doubts about the nation’s ability to refinance in the
bond market.  European credit is being weighed down as governments
struggle to convince investors they remain viable amid taxpayer
resistance to budget cuts and after Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
raised the prospect of Ireland and Portugal failing under the
weight of “oversized” debt burdens. In the U.S., company debt
is being helped by the Federal Reserve’s decision to buy an
additional $600 billion of Treasuries to stoke the economy.  “The focus is back on peripheral Europe,” said  Mark Dowding , a senior money manager at BlueBay Asset Management Plc
in London, where he helps oversee $22 billion of investment-
grade assets. “Keep your eye on Italy and Spain. If we see any
weakness there, that’s what will drive weakness elsewhere.”  Companies and banks in Europe’s so-called peripheral
countries saw the biggest jump in the price of credit-default
swaps this month, according to CMA.  Banco Espirito  Contracts on Banco Espirito Santo SA, Portugal’s largest
publicly traded bank by market value, rose the most in the
Markit iTraxx Europe Index, climbing 125 basis points to 539.75,
while energy company Energias de Portugal SA had the second-
biggest increase, jumping 68 to 313.  Elsewhere in credit markets, OAO Gazprom, Russia’s largest
company, hired banks to manage its first international bond sale
of this year, while loans of Telefonica SA rose after the
Spanish telecommunications firm reported a record quarterly
profit.  Walter Investment Management Corp.  was said to be
planning a $220.5 million issue of securities backed mainly by
contracts used to finance residential construction.  Gazprom , the nation’s state-owned gas monopoly, hired
JPMorgan and Credit Agricole SA to manage its bond issue, and
will meet investors from Nov. 15 to Nov. 17, according to a
banker with knowledge of the matter, who declined to be
identified before a deal is announced.  Telefonica Loans  Telefonica’s term loans maturing in 2013 were quoted at a
mid-price of 98.75 percent of face value, from 98.5 yesterday,
according to WestLB AG prices. Europe’s second-largest phone
company said today its third-quarter net income climbed
to 5.06 billion euros ($6.95 billion), from 1.88 billion euros a
year earlier, boosted by its gaining control of Brazil’s
Vivo Participacoes SA.  Walter Investment’s sale of securities, backed by a $324.2
million pool of assets that also includes $61.2 million of
residential mortgages, is being managed by Bank of America
Corp., according to a person familiar with the transaction, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t public.  Whitney Finch , a spokesman for Walter Investment, declined to comment.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. sold $1.75 billion of bonds yesterday.
The bank’s 2.6 percent notes due January 2016 yield 140 basis
points, or 1.4 percentage points, more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The New York-based bank last sold fixed-rate five-year debt
in June, issuing $1.25 billion of 3.4 percent senior unsecured
notes at a spread of 130 basis points, Bloomberg data show.
JPMorgan, the second-largest U.S. bank by assets, also sold $400
million of the securities in July, the data show.  Most-Traded Bonds  Bonds from Fairfield, Connecticut-based General Electric
Co. were the most actively traded U.S. corporate notes by
dealers yesterday, with 172 trades of $1 million or more,
according to Trace, the bond-pricing service of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  General Motors Co.’s AmeriCredit Financial Services and
Nissan Motor Co. issued $1.45 billion of asset-backed debt tied
to autos. Fort Worth, Texas-based AmeriCredit, the lender owned
by GM, sold $700 million of bonds backed by auto loans,
according to a person familiar with the sales. Nissan’s $750
million offering was tied to car leases.  Bond offerings tied to car purchases account for $58
billion of the $107 billion of debt linked to consumer and
business lending issued this year, Bloomberg data show.  Nissan Sale  The largest top-rated portion of Nissan’s sale, a $223
million slice maturing in two years, yields 47 basis points more
than the benchmark swap rate, according to a person familiar
with the matter. AmeriCredit paid 55 basis points more than the
swap rate on top-rated securities maturing in 2.12 years.  In emerging markets, the extra yield investors demand to
own bonds rather than government debt widened 7 basis points to
237, according to JPMorgan index data.  Bonds from  Banco Panamericano SA , the Brazilian lender
controlled by media mogul  Silvio Santos , tumbled as the central
bank began probing accounting irregularities after a 2.5 billion
reais ($1.5 billion) rescue. The yield on Panamericano’s 8.5
percent bonds due in 2020 soared 182 basis points, or 1.82
percentage points, to 9.22 percent, according to Trace.  Markit’s North American credit-swaps index, which investors
use to hedge against losses or speculate on the creditworthiness
of investment-grade debt, was little changed today at 90.4 basis
points, according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.
Markit’s iTraxx Europe Index climbed 1.9 basis points to 105.1.  The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted securities. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Peripheral Fears  Speculation that Europe’s peripheral nations aren’t viable
flared up earlier this year beginning with Greece, and returned
as estimates of Irish bank losses increased and governments
argued over a mechanism to prevent future financial crises.  Irish Central Bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said that loan
losses at the country’s lenders, including foreign-owned banks,
total at least 85 billion euros. Irish lenders are wrestling
with mounting bad debts after a decade-long real-estate boom
ended.  “There isn’t a full appreciation in the bond markets of
the amount of capital that has been put into banks,” Honohan
told Bloomberg Television in an interview in Dublin yesterday.  Crisis Mechanism  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is leading the push for
European Union treaties to be rewritten to create a permanent
debt-crisis mechanism before an international loan package
bailing out Greece expires in 2013. Portugal Finance Minister
Fernando Teixeira dos Santos urged regulators yesterday to
decide how the system will work, amid concern politicians’ calls
for bondholders to share the cost of bailouts will drive up the
cost of borrowing.  “It’s probable that the timing of the German proposals has
amplified the underlying concerns surrounding the two peripheral
EMU countries, Ireland and Portugal, with oversized debt
relative to the domestic ability to roll it over,”  Francesco Garzarelli , chief interest-rate strategist at Goldman Sachs in
London, wrote in a Nov. 10 report.  Credit-default swaps on Ireland’s biggest lenders jumped by
about half this month. Contracts tied to  Bank of Ireland ’s debt
climbed to an all-time high of 744 basis points, from 510 on
Oct. 29, while  Allied Irish  swaps rose to a record 1,025 from
645 at the end of last month, according to data provider CMA in
London. Default swaps insuring the banks’ riskier subordinated
debt soared yesterday to levels considered distressed.  Government Bonds  Sovereign debt concerns are also hurting European
government bonds, with Irish 10-year notes tumbling for a 13th
day, leading a rout from Portugal to Greece. The  difference 
between Irish yields and benchmark German rates widened 33 basis
points to a record 652, while the Portuguese-German spread
expanded to an all-time high 474.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of default
swaps on 15 governments including Germany, Italy and Spain
surged to a record 179 today from 152 at the end of October.  Swaps on Irish bonds were little changed at 598, after
climbing 20 basis points earlier today to a record 617, CMA
prices show. Contracts on Portugal and Spain both jumped to all-
time highs, before pulling back.  “Sovereign spreads have continued to move a lot wider and
that’s been pressuring credit markets,” said  Andrew Sheets ,
head of European credit strategy in London at Morgan Stanley.
The focus has shifted “back toward sovereigns,” he said.  Corporate Spreads  The extra yield investors demand to hold company bonds in
euros instead of benchmark government securities rose 10 basis
points this month to 169, the highest in five weeks, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s EMU Corporate index. Spreads
in the U.S. tightened 2 basis points in the same period to 175.  Companies and banks in the U.S. are benefiting from a flood
of cash after the Fed on Nov. 2 said it would pump more money
into the economy by boosting bond purchases while keeping its
key interest rate at close to zero, encouraging investors to
snap up riskier assets to boost yields.  That’s also helping the neediest borrowers refinance debt.
The European Central Bank signaled this month they will withdraw
extraordinary stimulus measures.  Investor concern may next center on Italy, according to
 Bill Blain , a strategist at Matrix Corporate Capital LLP in
London. “In Europe it’s the same old stuff” this week, he
wrote in a research report dated Nov. 10. “Peripherals are
wider and more pain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bryan Keogh  in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  