-- Ex-Leipzig Utility Manager to Be Tried Over Bribes in CDO Deal With Banks
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2010-11-10T15:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/ex-german-utility-manager-to-be-tried-over-bribes-in-cdo-deal-court-says.html
The former head of a German
municipal utility must stand trial over alleged bribes connected
to collateralized debt obligation transactions with  UBS AG  and
other banks, a court ruled.  Klaus Heininger, the former managing director of KWL-
Kommunale Wasserwerke Leipzig GmbH, will be tried starting Nov.
26 on charges of accepting bribes, breach of trust, falsifying
financial statements and tax evasion, the Leipzig Regional Court
said in an e-mailed statement today. Two other suspects, charged
with bribing Heininger, will also be defendants in the case.  “Heininger allegedly accepted considerable monetary
advantages in order to close highly risky agreements in the name
of KWL, which may have led to a default risk of 280 million
euros ($384 million),” the court said.  KWL in February filed a suit in Leipzig, Germany, against
UBS, Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg and  Depfa Bank Plc  to
invalidate the CDO transactions in which KWL assumed guarantees
for unsecured loans. The utility claims that the transactions
were closed without proper authorization.  Uwe Freyschmidt, Heininger’s lawyer, didn’t reply to a call
and an e-mail seeking comment. KWL spokesman Jochen Endle
declined to comment. UBS and the other banks aren’t accused of
wrongdoing in the criminal case.  UBS sued KWL in January in London over the issue. The
London High Court of Justice  ruled  Oct. 15 that it can hear the
UBS suit because the transactions fall under English law.  Alleged Bribes  Heininger, who was fired last year and arrested in
February, may have evaded 1.6 million euros in taxes because he
didn’t declare the alleged bribes as income, the court said.  The two men charged with bribing Heininger were financial
brokers who helped set up the deal between KWL and the lenders,
according to court spokesman Johann Jagenlauf.  The court rejected a part of the charges that claimed
Heininger also breached his fiduciary duties to KWL when signing
the contracts. In 2006 and 2007, when the transaction where
closed, the default risk wasn’t imminent, the judges said.  The breach of trust charge that was allowed to go to trial
concerned the allegation that Heininger put some of the
transaction money in slush funds he later used to make up for
losses, according to Jagenlauf.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons in London at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 