-- Executives Collect $2 Billion Running U.S. For-Profit Colleges
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r   a n d   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2010-11-10T05:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/executives-collect-2-billion-running-for-profit-colleges-on-taxpayer-dime.html
Strayer Education Inc. , a chain of
for-profit colleges that receives three-quarters of its revenue
from U.S. taxpayers, paid Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Silberman  $41.9 million last year. That’s 26 times the
compensation of the highest-paid president of a traditional
university.  Top executives at the 15 U.S. publicly traded for-profit
colleges, led by  Apollo Group Inc . and  Education Management
Corp. , also received $2 billion during the last seven years from
the proceeds of selling company stock, Securities and Exchange
Commission filings show. At the same time, the industry
registered the worst loan-default and four-year-college dropout
rates in U.S. higher education. Since 2003, nine for-profit
college insiders sold more than $45 million of stock apiece.
 Peter Sperling , vice chairman of Apollo’s University of Phoenix,
the largest for-profit college, collected $574.3 million.  Education corporations, which receive as much as 90 percent
of their revenue from federal financial-aid programs, are
“private enterprise that’s almost entirely publicly funded,”
 Henry Levin , director of Columbia University’s National Center
for the Study of Privatization in Education, said in a telephone
interview.  Students at for-profit colleges are defaulting on their
loans at three times the rate of those at private, nonprofit
institutions, according to data from the U.S. Department of
Education, which is tightening regulation of the industry. The
graduation rate for first-time, full-time candidates for four-
year degrees at for-profit colleges is 22 percent, compared with
55 percent at state colleges and 65 percent at private nonprofit
universities.  ‘Public Trough’  “For-profit colleges are reaching into the public trough
to finance luxurious lifestyles at the expense of people who are
going to have to pay back loans,” said Levin, a professor at
Columbia University’s Teachers College in New York.  John G. Sperling , Apollo’s 89-year-old founder and
executive chairman, received $263.5 million from stock sales
during the last seven years.  Robert B. Knutson , retired CEO and
chairman of Pittsburgh-based Education Management, the second-
largest for-profit college chain by enrollment, got $132.4
million.  Dennis Keller  and  Ronald Taylor , former co-CEOs of
DeVry Inc., a Downers Grove, Illinois-based for-profit higher
education company, together collected $110.4 million in stock
proceeds.  ‘Appropriate’ Rewards  Industry executives deserve to be rewarded because of their
records as entrepreneurs and the performance of their companies’
stock, said  Harris Miller , president of the Washington-based
Association of Private Sector Colleges & Universities, which
represents the industry.  “If a company has done well, and the market has rewarded
executives, that’s totally appropriate,” Miller said in a
telephone interview. “These guys were in it for the long term.
They believe in the sector. They weren’t in it for a quick
buck.”  Apollo  shares doubled over the last decade, even after
dropping almost 40 percent this year because of investor concern
that new government regulation will reduce enrollment and
profits.  Strayer  and  DeVry  shares each more than doubled since
the beginning of 2003, even after stocks in the industry
declined 31 percent this year, according to an  index  of 13
companies.  The windfall to executives at for-profit colleges towers
over the rest of higher education.  Exceeding Harvard  Harvard University in Cambridge, Massachusetts, pays
President  Drew Faust  $800,000 a year.  Shirley Ann Jackson ,
president of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, New York,
received $1.6 million and was the highest-paid president of a
nonprofit or public university, according to Chronicle of Higher
Education surveys of the most recent college filings. The median
annual pay of presidents at private nonprofit universities was
$358,746, compared with $627,750 at large, private research
universities, the Chronicle found. Heads of public institutions
took home a median $436,111, according to the Chronicle.  At Strayer, Silberman heads a chain of colleges with 54,000
students last year, about the size of New York University, based
in lower Manhattan. Silberman’s $41.9 million  pay  package
amounted to 32 times NYU President  John Sexton ’s $1.3 million a
year.  Soaring Stock  Silberman received a $40 million stock grant in 2009 that
vests over 10 years,  David Wargo , a Strayer director and former
head of the company’s compensation committee, said in an e-mail.
After Silberman arrived, Strayer shares rose almost 10-fold
through 2009, when the grant was made, Wargo said. Silberman
will receive none of the stock if he leaves the company before
10 years, so the grant is aligned with shareholders’ long-term
interests, making it “consistent with best compensation
practices,” Wargo said.  Silberman oversees 86 campuses, while NYU centers on New
York City, Wargo said.  Sondra Stallard , president of Strayer
University, the company’s primary educational unit, is paid
similarly to Sexton, Wargo said.  NYU has 18 schools and colleges in New York and sites
abroad, including a degree-granting campus in Abu Dhabi, said
university spokesman  John Beckman .  The enrollment of Apollo’s University of Phoenix, 470,000,
is about the same as that of the State University of New York
system. Apollo co-CEO  Charles Edelstein  received $6.75 million
in the year ended Aug. 31, 2009, 12 times the pay of Nancy
Zimpher, who gets $545,000 a year as SUNY chancellor.  William Pepicello , president of the University of Phoenix, is a closer
comparison with Zimpher and receives cash and stock compensation
of $1.8 million annually, said Apollo spokesman Ryan Rauzon.  Log Cabin  Over half a century, Apollo’s  John Sperling , a former
college professor raised in a log cabin in the Missouri Ozarks,
pioneered the for-profit college industry, Rauzon said. Sperling
improved access for the poor, providing courses on demand,
online and at night, Rauzon said. The “overwhelming majority”
of the  shares  that John and Peter Sperling sold are founders’
stock that had been held for decades, Rauzon said.  “John Sperling had a revolutionary idea, and we think it
has changed the landscape of higher education for the better,”
Rauzon said in a telephone interview. “When you look at him as
a founder and entrepreneur who has improved the lives of
millions of Americans, that alone explains his compensation.”  An Aug. 4 report by the U.S. Government Accountability
Office, Congress’s investigative arm, found that recruiters from
Apollo and other for-profit companies misled students about the
cost and quality of courses. About 13 percent of University of
Phoenix students default in the first two years during which
they are required to make payments on their student loans, three
times the percentage at private, nonprofit colleges, Education
Department data show.  Apollo has eliminated incentive pay for recruiters,
monitored phone calls and started a program that lets students
sample courses for free before committing, Rauzon said.  Indebted Barista  Jolene Daly, who lives in Turlock, California, borrowed
$54,000 to pay for her bachelor’s degree from the University of
Phoenix. She now works as a barista at a Starbucks Corp. coffee
shop, making $8.94 an hour. Apollo should spend less on its
executives and more on its instructors, who were poorly
qualified and unprepared for courses, she said.  “It’s nice to know that that’s what I was paying for,
because it certainly wasn’t the courses,” Daly said in a
telephone interview. “It’s kind of infuriating.”  Apollo  spends $2.1 billion annually on education and
instructional costs, which is more than any other expense and
“commensurate with what our students need,” Rauzon said.  Peer Comparisons  Seven of the 15 higher education CEOs were paid more than
their peers at similarly sized companies, according to Equilar
Inc., a Redwood City, California-based executive-pay researcher.
Equilar tallied salary, bonuses, long-term incentive pay, stock
awards, the value of stock-options grants and perks from SEC
filings. Equilar didn’t include the change in value of executive
pensions.  Annual compensation ranged from  Silberman ’s $41.9 million
to $413,000 paid to  Donald Graham , chairman and CEO of
 Washington Post Co. , which owns the Kaplan higher-education
chain, the nation’s third-largest by enrollment.  Silberman’s annual compensation would have ranked him
eighth on Equilar’s list of the highest-paid executives at the
largest 1,000 companies.  Strayer  was too small to make the
Equilar list.  Stock Options  Andrew Clark , president and CEO of San Diego-based
 Bridgepoint Education Inc. , ranked second among for-profit
colleges in annual pay. His compensation amounted to $20.5
million, according to an SEC filing. Clark’s 2009 pay was an
anomaly because he received a $19.4 million stock-option grant,
most of which was related to the company’s April 2009 initial
public offering, said Bridgepoint spokeswoman Shari Rodriquez.  The number of students attending for-profit colleges rose
to 1.8 million in 2008 from 550,000 a decade before, Education
Department data show. Since 1998, annual industry revenue
increased almost sixfold, to $33 billion, according to an
estimate by  Trace Urdan , an analyst with Signal Hill Capital
Group in San Francisco.  The industry has transformed itself, growing from its roots
in trade schools for auto mechanics and massage therapists to
offer bachelor’s and even graduate degrees. For-profit colleges
cater to low-income and minority students often neglected by
traditional institutions, the industry group’s Miller said.
Higher default rates reflect the socioeconomic status of
students, rather than the quality of institutions, he said.  Taxpaying Companies  Students, not colleges, apply for federal grants and loans
to pay tuition and fees, so the companies aren’t directly
subsidized by taxpayers, Miller said. State and private
universities also receive government money, while education
companies pay taxes, reducing their cost to the public, he said.  The executives with the biggest gains -- including the
Sperlings at Apollo -- sold substantial holdings before their
companies’ stocks fell because of proposed government rules
restricting recruiting and tying federal financial aid to
student-loan repayment rates.  To identify those winners, InsiderScore.com, a Princeton,
New Jersey, company that analyzes insider transactions, compiled
data for the seven years starting in July 2003, when electronic
stock-sales data became available.  Finding Winners  Share proceeds start with the overall sum received from
selling stock over the seven-year period. To approximate gains,
InsiderScore then subtracted the value of open-market purchases
and the cost of exercising options in that time frame. Because
of the limitations of publicly available data, the proceeds may
include amounts that executives paid for shares or options in
earlier years, including when companies were private.  Not all the shares sold were granted by company boards as
compensation. Executives also sold long-time holdings of
founders’ shares or, in the case of the  Washington Post ,
inherited stock in which the CEO had no ownership interest.  SEC filings show $65.7 million in stock sales during the
last seven years under the name of the Washington Post’s Graham.
The family held the  shares  for decades, largely in trusts for
the benefit of siblings and their children, according to Post
spokeswoman  Rima Calderon . Graham acted as a trustee and had
“no beneficial interest” in the proceeds of the sales, she
said. Graham also transferred stock to his ex-wife, Mary Graham,
Calderon said. None of the stock originated as compensation to
Graham, she said. Filings confirm her account.  The SEC is conducting an informal inquiry into Apollo’s
insider share sales. The inquiry relates to disclosures of
information about an early 2009 Education Department review of
Apollo’s operations, the company said Oct. 26. Apollo said it
was cooperating.  Sperlings’ Sales  John Sperling and his 50-year-old son, Peter, have sold a
combined $837.8 million in Apollo shares since 2003,  filings 
show.  The Sperlings have been diversifying their investments,
selling shares during SEC-sanctioned “windows” for disposing
of stock, Rauzon said. On Nov. 1, Apollo said it would initiate
a trading plan for the Sperlings that would further restrict the
timing of stock sales. The father and son still hold Apollo
shares valued at about $770 million, filings show.  Education Management’s Knutson, who made $132.4 million in
stock sales, is also a founder. Starting with the Art Institute
of Pittsburgh, Knutson, a former fighter pilot and Wall Street
banker, built a national chain that now has 158,000 students.  In 2006, Knutson, then CEO, sold Education Management to a
group of  private-equity firms , led by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
for $3.4 billion. Education Management, which went public again
in October 2009, now has a market value of about $2 billion.
Jacquelyn P. Muller, a spokeswoman for Education Management,
declined to comment on Knutson’s stock sales.  ‘Tremendous Sacrifices’  DeVry’s Keller and Taylor, who founded for-profit Keller
Graduate School of Management in 1973, bought Oakbrook Terrace,
Illinois-based  DeVry  in 1987. Their combined stock sales of
$110.4 million reflect decades of investment in DeVry,  Joan Bates , a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  “Dennis and Ron were entrepreneurs who started this
organization from scratch,” Bates said. “They made tremendous
sacrifices and took on a great deal of financial risk.”  Taylor remains a DeVry director and senior adviser. Keller
retired in 2008 and is a senior adviser.  For-profit college executives have used their fortunes to
fund outside investments and interests.  Peter Sperling owns a Santa Barbara estate with a $20
million tax value. He is selling a “neoclassical villa and
guest house” in San Francisco, which is on the market for $47
million, according to a  listing . Rauzon declined to comment on
Sperling’s property.  Alma Maters  Keller has been a trustee of both his alma maters,
Princeton University in Princeton, New Jersey and the University
of Chicago, two of the nation’s wealthiest nonprofit colleges.
He has given at least $50 million combined to the two
universities, according to announcements from the institutions.
Princeton named an engineering education center in his honor.
DeVry won’t comment on Keller’s philanthropy, Bates said.  Maria Avila recently got her master’s degree in business
administration from DeVry’s Keller Graduate School of Management
and also has a bachelor’s from DeVry. A 44-year-old single
mother and Mexican immigrant, she is featured in a promotional
online video of school success stories.  Avila owes $74,000 in student loans, which she must repay
on a $40,000-a-year salary as an accounting clerk for a Chicago
television station, she said. Keller should have given money to
a scholarship fund at DeVry, Avila said. Bates declined to
comment.  “I’m like, ‘Give it to me,’” Avila said. “I need it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Hechinger  in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net ;
 John Lauerman  in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 