-- Mexico's Congress Won't Lift Foreigner Phone Investment Limits Next Year
-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2010-11-10T22:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/mexico-s-congress-won-t-lift-foreigner-phone-investment-limits-next-year.html
Maxcom Telecomunicaciones SAB,
Mexico’s fifth-largest phone carrier, fell the most in more than
two months, and  Axtel SAB  declined, after a top lawmaker said
Mexico’s Congress won’t lift a limit on foreign investment in
the country’s fixed-line phone carriers.  None of Mexico’s major political parties plan to propose
changes next year to the foreign-investment law, which limits
outsiders to a 49 percent stake in land-line companies, Jorge
Ramirez Marin, the lower house’s speaker, said in an interview
at the Bloomberg Mexico Economic Summit today in Mexico City.  Maxcom, based in the capital, fell 24 centavos, or 3.4
percent, to 6.78 pesos, the biggest drop since Aug. 24. Axtel,
Mexico’s second-largest land-line phone company after  Telefonos
de Mexico SAB , was the worst performer of the day on Mexico’s
benchmark IPC index, falling 6 centavos to 7.45 pesos.  Axtel, based in San Pedro Garza Garcia, reached its highest
level in a month on Sept. 10 on speculation that Congress would
ease the foreign-investment limit.  Maxcom , the nation’s fifth-
largest carrier, said in August it was evaluating strategic
options with “market participants,” without naming the
companies.  Mexico’s lower house may vote tomorrow on the spending
portion of the 2011 budget, Ramirez Marin said. Congress won’t
change the government’s request for total spending in next
year’s budget proposal, he said. The lower house will seek to
reallocate 100 billion pesos ($8.1 billion) in spending to pay
for defense and security improvements, he added.  Ramirez Marin said there is “no doubt” lawmakers will
approve changes to labor laws next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net ;
 Crayton Harrison  in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  