-- Fall Truffle Hunt Leads From Babbo's $600 Date to $48 Burger: Ryan Sutton
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2010-11-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/fall-truffle-hunt-leads-from-babbo-s-600-date-to-48-burger-ryan-sutton.html
Thomas Keller ’s extravagant Per Se
is probably the best place in New York to try white truffles.  That’s my best advice after a series of mostly mediocre
encounters with this earthy, expensive delicacy.  Keller’s  Time Warner  Center temple, one of the city’s most
expensive venues at $275 per person for a nine-course menu,
offers a fantastic “spiked” risotto as a $175 supplement
(service included).  That’s less than the Four Seasons, which charges up to
$250, or Mario Batali’s Babbo, which charges $300 for its over-
the-top truffle tasting menu. (Good luck getting a second date
if you go Dutch.)  Unlike caviar, cherished for its delicately briny flavor,
or foie gras, with its silken texture and rich mouth-feel, white
truffles aren’t typically consumed by themselves. Rather,
they’re a supremely expensive garnish. Captains shave them
tableside, releasing a pungent, room-filling bouquet as the
flakes wilt over warm pasta.  Sometimes they’re sliced in the kitchen, depriving diners
of that woody, wild scent in all its intensity.  Perhaps that’s why at Bar Masa my $120 seared wagyu with
truffles (about six small bites) had little truffle flavor. The
out-of-sight slicing also might explain my disappointment in a
$65 pizza at Colicchio & Sons, with its muted flavors and
desiccated, oily cheese.  $65 Pizza  Good truffles should be creamy and tan with brilliant white
streaks. At Colicchio, the slivers curled at the edges and
turned black as if they’d been broiled on a  Pizza Hut  sausage-
lover’s pie. Truffles and high heat should not mix.  Tableside shaving is also a matter of transparency, similar
to presenting your bottle of wine to show that it’s the one you
ordered.  There’s no way to tell how much the truffle supplements
will cost you at Masa (Bar Masa’s more expensive brother), which
charges $450 for a set menu of raw fish.  “The price depends on what dish,” said a receptionist.
She couldn’t discuss specific numbers, which is unfortunate
since truffles are hardly an impulse buy, especially at a venue
where dinner for two will cost $1,200.  Masa is not alone. Great restaurants that print their menus
or update their websites every day don’t always list their
truffle prices or grams-per-serving. Would you order Champagne
from a wine list with no written prices or bottle sizes?  Home Cooking  “We don’t eat truffles in restaurants because we can serve
them over buttered noodles at home for cheaper,” an Italian
friend told me.  Fair point, and maybe why I was startled to learn that was
more or less the suggested preparation at L’Atelier de Joel
Robuchon ($100) and Lincoln ($100).  Ask for a risotto or something else that requires some
skill. Restaurants can accommodate. Eleven Madison Park has
served white truffles with frogs legs and black trumpet
mushrooms, general manager Will Guidara tells me, while a
spokesperson for chef Daniel Boulud says the chef could use them
to jazz up guinea hen or Dover sole at his flagship.  How about a hamburger? At DB Bistro Moderne, Boulud tops a
short-rib and foie gras-stuffed sirloin patty with two layers of
truffles. Cost: $97 including the $65 truffle supplement (upon
request).  The kitchen-side slicing subdues some of the flavor at DB,
but not at Burger & Barrel, a new spot on West Houston. Josh
Capon caps a $48 six-napkin blend of chuck, short rib and
brisket with enough stinky robiola cheese, truffle aioli and
real truffle discs to leave your shirt cuffs stained with meat
juices and your fingers reeking.  21 Seconds  Truffles can’t always transform ho-hum fare like an
underbraised, undersalted, undersauced flatiron steak at
Batali’s Manzo. A $129 dish demands perfection. Though I will
admit the 21 seconds of perfect shavings made me smile.  Batali knows overindulgence is the point here. Chef George
Mendes takes a more frugal approach at Aldea, his excellent
Iberian spot. We counted about five seconds of slicing, covering
just three-quarters of our risotto, which meant we enjoyed just
75 percent of our $75 dish.  Instead, I’ll get my yearly fix at Per Se’s salon, where
the $175 risotto is served a la carte. I’ll watch as the waiter
takes a softball-sized truffle out of a jewel box. I’ll count
45-60 seconds as the edible gold falls over the snowy white
grains of rice, almost covering them entirely.  ( Ryan Sutton  writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 