-- Fed Quantitative Easing May Be Boon to Exports, Skidelsky Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-11-10T21:34:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/fed-quantitative-easing-may-be-boon-to-exports-skidelsky-says-tom-keene.html
An export boost related to a
weakened dollar may be the “main effect” of the Federal
Reserve’s plan to buy $600 billion more in Treasuries under
quantitative easing, according to  Robert Skidelsky , an emeritus
professor of economics at Warwick University in London.  “If quantitative easing comes in, that should drive down
the dollar,” Skidelsky said in an interview today on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene . “That’s
going to be its main effect. I don’t think it’s going to have
much effect on domestic prices, on the domestic economy, but it
will have an effect on the export economy, and that should be
beneficial.”  The U.S. trade deficit narrowed in September by 5.3 percent
to $44 billion as exports climbed to the highest level in two
years, Commerce Department figures showed today. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 75 economists was for a
gap of $45 billion.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index , which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners including the euro, dropped 1.9 percent in October as
investors anticipated the Fed’s decision on Nov. 3 to buy more
government debt.  Policy makers across the world should address global
imbalances in trade and the currency markets to avoid a revival
of “the currency wars of the 1930s” that exacerbated the
damage caused by the Great Depression, said Skidelsky, 71, a
member of the House of Lords. “That would be disastrous for
recovery. There’s got to be an agreement on exchange rates.”  The Bretton Woods agreement in 1944 linked currencies
around the world to the price of gold and restricted their
fluctuations versus the dollar, requiring intervention by
participants to comply.  “I’m looking for a new Bretton Woods,” Skidelsky said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  