-- Fed Dissenter Hoenig to Speak to House Republicans
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2010-11-10T17:43:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/fed-dissenter-hoenig-to-speak-to-house-republicans-on-dec-2.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
President  Thomas Hoenig , who opposed the central bank’s decision
to expand record monetary stimulus, will speak next month to
Republican lawmakers, some of whom share his criticisms.  Hoenig accepted an Oct. 14 invitation to address the House
Republican Conference, and the Washington visit was scheduled
for Dec. 2 “based on scheduling availability on both sides,”
Diane Raley, Hoenig’s spokeswoman, said in a statement to
Bloomberg News.  Hoenig, 64, currently the longest-serving Fed policy maker,
was the only voting official to dissent from the Nov. 3 decision
to purchase $600 billion of Treasuries in a bid to lower
unemployment. His appearance may embolden Republicans including
Wisconsin Representative  Paul Ryan , set to chair the House
Budget Committee, who said Nov. 7 the Fed’s move is a “big
mistake” that will cause an “inflation problem.”  “Consistent with our bank’s practice of being responsive
to members of Congress, we accepted the invitation,” said
Raley, a Kansas City Fed senior vice president. “Mr. Hoenig has
spoken to  members of Congress  from all political party
affiliations in both the Senate and the House many times and is
pleased to be asked to do so again.”  Hoenig has cast the lone dissenting vote in all seven Fed
policy decisions this year. Several other Fed officials who have
expressed opposition or skepticism over the asset-purchase
plans, including Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser ,
don’t have a vote this year on the Fed’s Open Market Committee.  ‘Diluting the Value’  Republicans won the House of Representatives from Democrats
in last week’s mid-term elections. Indiana Representative  Mike Pence , who chairs the House Republican Conference, the party’s
No. 3 leadership position, criticized the Fed decision last
week, saying Nov. 3 that “diluting the value of the dollar by
continually increasing the supply of money poses an incalculable
risk.”  Pence “believes that because this is uncharted territory
and it poses an incalculable risk to the economy it’s extremely
important for our members to have a strong understanding of the
issue,” Mary Vought, a spokeswoman for the House Republican
Conference, said today in a statement.  Pence said last week he is leaving the House leadership
post because he wants to consider “new opportunities to serve
Indiana and our nation.”  ‘Destabilize the Economy’  Hoenig was concerned that the “continued high level of
monetary accommodation” may “destabilize the economy” by
increasing long-term inflation expectations over time, the
FOMC’s Nov. 3 statement said.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last week defended the
decision as one that will aid economic growth, saying Nov. 6
that the “standard considerations suggest that we should be
using expansionary monetary policy” and that the move was
“nothing extraordinary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  