-- Fed to Purchase $105 Billion of Treasuries Over Next Month
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2010-11-10T20:34:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/fed-to-buy-105-billion-of-treasuries-over-next-month-under-stimulus-plan.html
The Federal Reserve will purchase
$105 billion of Treasuries over the next month as policy makers
expand monetary stimulus measures to reduce unemployment and
avert deflation.  The central bank will conduct 18 open-market  operations 
from Nov. 12 through Dec. 9, according to a statement today on
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s website. The central bank
is buying an additional $600 billion of Treasuries through June
and expects to reinvest $250 billion to $300 billion of proceeds
from mortgage-backed debt and agency securities into Treasuries.  The policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee embarked
on a second round of unconventional monetary stimulus on Nov. 3
after a benchmark  interest rate  near zero and an earlier program
to buy $1.7 trillion of securities failed to bring down an
unemployment rate that’s stuck near a 26-year high. The
transactions announced today will be comprised of $75 billion of
new purchases and $30 billion of reinvestment proceeds.  The schedule “tells you the Fed is going to be around just
about every day,” said  John Briggs , a U.S. government bond
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc’s RBS Securities unit
in Stamford, Connecticut, one of 18 primary dealers that trade
with the Fed. “Whereas we’d had supply all week and a tenuous
30-year auction. Now we have the Fed buybacks.”  Treasuries reversed declines after the Fed announced the
details of its purchase operations. Thirty-year bonds earlier
declined as the U.S. sold $16 billion of the securities that
drew a yield of 4.32 percent, compared with the average forecast
of 4.288 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of eight dealers.  Purchase Schedule  The current  30-year bond  was little changed to yield 4.25
percent at 3:33 p.m. in New York, according to BGCantor Market
Data.  During the six-month long period, the central bank plans to
distribute its purchases into eight maturity sectors, the
largest percentages, at 23 percent each, in the 5.5 to 7 year
maturity bucket and the 7 to 10 year range, according to a New
York Fed statement on Nov. 3.  The Fed plans to purchase between $21 billion and $27
billion through three operations for Treasuries maturing from
February 2018 to November 2020, or approximately the seven- to
10-year maturity range. They expect to purchase a similar amount
also through three operations from Treasuries maturing between
May and June 2016 through November 2017, or about five- to six-
year maturity range.  ‘First Cycle’  “Due to holidays and other scheduling tasks, the $105
billion for the first cycle will be front-loaded into this
Friday to next Friday rather than being smoothly distributed
over calendar time,”  Jim Vogel,  head of agency debt research at
FTN Financial in Memphis, Tennessee, wrote in a note to clients.
“The initial maturity ranges of the first several purchases
also skew a little longer than the average for the next four
weeks.”  Since Aug. 17, the Fed has been reinvesting proceeds of its
maturing mortgage holdings into Treasuries to keep its System
Open  Market  Account, or  SOMA , at about $2 trillion and prevent a
draining of cash from the banking system.  The central bank aims to buy assets during the program with
an average duration of between five and six years, with about 86
percent of its purchases in securities maturing between 2.5
years and 10 years, the New York Fed said. Duration, a measure
of a bond’s price sensitivity to interest rate changes,
generally increases with maturity.  The central bank eased a self-imposed 35 percent individual
security holdings, allowing for increases “only in modest
increments,” for the purchases. For the first time in an
outright Treasury purchase program the central bank will release
at the end of each monthly cycle the prices paid for each
security.  The first open-market operation on Nov. 12 will consist of
$6 billion to $8 billion of Treasuries maturing from November
2014 through April 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liz Capo McCormick  in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net . 