-- Fed Acting ‘Irresponsibly’ Is Correct, McCulley Says
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-11-11T00:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/fed-acting-irresponsibly-is-right-policy-approach-pimco-s-mcculley-says.html
The Federal Reserve acting
“irresponsibly” relative to conventional wisdom is the correct
approach for reversing an economy mired in a liquidity trap,
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Paul McCulley  said.  The Fed, led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , announced last
week a plan to buy an additional $600 billion in government debt
to support the economy after purchasing $1.7 trillion of assets
from December 2008 through March. Policy makers said today they
would buy $105 billion of bonds in the next month.  “It was a courageous decision,” McCulley, a managing
director at the world’s largest manager of bond funds, wrote in
commentary on the Newport Beach, California-based company’s
website today. “Quantitative easing coupled with pro-active
fiscal expansion, alongside price level targeting, is the hat-
trick with the most likely probability of success in breaking an
economy out of a liquidity trap.” In a liquidity trap,
borrowing or lending may not be stimulated because of a
shortfall in demand.  Commercial and industrial loans outstanding have fallen by
about $68.5 billion this year, central bank data show. Rather
than providing money to businesses and consumers, U.S.
commercial banks are increasingly using the cash available at
interest rates set by the Fed that are next to zero and lending
it back to the government.  ‘Liquidity Trap Conditions’  “Unconventional has now become conventional,” McCulley
wrote. “Current monetary ease is likely to be much less
effective in bolstering aggregate demand growth than
historically, given liquidity trap conditions.”  Bernanke is being criticized by officials in nations
including China, Germany and Brazil because a consequence from a
second round of easing, dubbed QE2 by traders, is expected to be
a weaker foreign exchange value for the dollar, McCulley wrote.  President  Barack Obama  said the strength of the dollar
rests on sustaining the U.S. expansion as Group of 20 officials
remain divided over whether the Fed is helping or harming the
world economy.  Obama joined his G-20 counterparts at a summit in Seoul
today, defending America’s economic policy by arguing in a Nov.
9 letter to fellow leaders that growth in his country is the
“most important contribution” the U.S. can make to the global
recovery and that its “fundamental strength” will ultimately
determine the dollar’s value.  The Fed is pursuing its mandate of stable inflation and a
low unemployment rate, McCulley wrote. “The rest of the world
should simply accept this outcome as reality and adjust -- or
not adjust -- their own domestically oriented objectives and
policies accordingly.”  Consumer Prices  To reverse the effects of a liquidity trap, McCulley said
the central bank should coordinate with the government policy
makers to encourage fiscal expansion that may finance an
economy-wide tax cut and increase inflation expectations through
price level targeting.  The Fed’s bond purchases have “meaningfully reduced” the
chances of persistent deflation from the 25 percent level Pimco
Chief Executive Officer Mohamed A. El-Erian previously
estimated, according to Mihir Worah, the head of the fund
manager’s real return portfolio management team.  “In the near-term, while we don’t see run-away inflation
as an imminent risk, we also don’t see deflation in our base
case,” Worah said in a commentary posted on Pimco’s website.
Quantitative easing means investors should favor Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities as it is likely to lead to higher
inflation in the longer term, Worah said.  Consumer prices excluding food and fuel costs rose 0.8
percent in September from the year before in the smallest year-
over-year gain since 1961, figures from the Labor department
showed Oct. 15.  The annual measure of prices watched by the Fed, tracking
the personal consumption expenditures price index and excluding
food and energy, advanced 1.2 percent in September from a year
earlier, the smallest gain since September 2001, government
figures showed Nov. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  