-- Fidelity-Backed Shriram Transport Finance Seeks Banking License in India
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2010-11-10T08:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/fidelity-backed-shriram-transport-finance-seeks-banking-license-in-india.html
Shriram Transport Finance Co. , an
Indian truck financier backed by Fidelity Investments, will
apply for a banking license as the country seeks to extend
lending facilities to villages.  The company, which finances more than 1,200 vehicle
purchases daily, expects profit for the year ending March 31 to
increase 25 percent as faster economic growth bolsters demand,
Managing Director R. Sridhar said. The Reserve Bank of India may
issue new banking licenses for the first time since 2004.  “With a bank license we will be able to reach out to a lot
more people, which the government can’t directly,” Sridhar said
in an interview. “We will be able to provide credit to the
credit starved, while strengthening our objectives and
positioning.”  The Reserve Bank of India in August said it will review
capital, ownership and foreign shareholding rules for new banks
as it considers issuing more licenses in Asia’s third-largest
economy. The regulator is reviewing whether to allow industrial
groups to own banks and permit non-banking financial
institutions to secure full licenses and will set policies after
receiving feedback from stakeholders by Sept. 30.  Shriram Transport shares, which have gained 78 percent this
year, rose 0.1 percent to 871 rupees at 1:34 p.m. in Mumbai.
That compares with a 20 percent gain in the benchmark Bombay
Stock Exchange  Sensitive Index  in the same period.  New Banks  New lenders will compete with the 200-year-old, government-
controlled  State Bank of India , which accounts for a fifth of
the nation’s banking assets, and ICICI Bank Ltd., the largest
private-sector bank. The minimum capital requirement for new
banks may be raised from 3 billion rupees to 10 billion rupees,
the central bank said.  Billionaire  Uday Kotak ’s Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. in 2003
became the first to get a new commercial bank license in about a
decade. It was followed by Mumbai-based  Yes Bank Ltd. , backed by
Rabobank Groep NV of the Netherlands.  Shriram Transport plans to raise as much as 60 billion
rupees of debt by March to lend more, Sridhar said. The
company’s net income rose 44 percent to 2.99 billion rupees in
the quarter ended Sept. 30 from a year ago, while sales rose 23
percent to 13.1 billion rupees.  Fidelity Investments’ funds own at least 1.6 percent of
Shriram Transport, according to data on the Bombay Stock
Exchange website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anoop Agrawal  in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  