-- FIFA World Cup Voter Salguero Says He's Undecided on Supporting U.S. Bid
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2010-11-10T13:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/fifa-world-cup-voter-salguero-says-he-s-undecided-on-supporting-u-s-bid.html
A member of soccer’s governing body
from the American region said he’s not sure he’ll support the
U.S. bid to stage the World Cup in 2022.  “I don’t know what I’ll do,” Guatemalan soccer federation
president Rafael Salguero said in an interview late yesterday.
“The U.S. is possible but I can’t say anything at this moment.
I’m waiting for the vote, the secret vote.”  The U.S., the only candidate from Central and North
America, faces competition from Australia, Qatar, South Korea
and Japan to stage sport’s most watched event in 2022. Because
all the other candidates come under the Asian confederation,
support among that region’s four voters may be split.  The U.S. is banking on the three votes available to the
executive members from the  Confederation of North, Central
American and Caribbean Association Football . Trinidad’s  Jack Warner , the organization’s head, and U.S. official  Chuck Blazer 
are on FIFA’s executive committee along with Salguero, a former
Guatemalan national team player.  FIFA  is investigating two of its 24-member decision-making
panel after the Sunday Times newspaper alleged Nigeria’s  Amos Adamu  and Tahiti’s Reynald Temarii told undercover reporters
they’d exchange their votes for cash. The findings will be
announced on Nov. 17.  “I think there are many ugly things which I’d prefer not
to comment on,” Salguero said in a telephone interview. “I’m
not involved in any of that.”  Ethics Committee  Salguero said he’ll travel to New York next week to meet
with Blazer and other  U.S. soccer  officials. FIFA on Dec. 2
will decide on where the World Cups in 2018 and 2022 are
staged. The winning candidates need at least 13 votes.  England, Russia and joint offers from Spain and Portugal
and the Netherlands and Belgium are vying for 2018. Salguero
said he hadn’t made up his mind on that vote either.  FIFA’s ethics committee is also looking into an alleged
pact by Qatar’s committee and Spain/Portugal’s bid to share
votes. Officials from the European bid have denied the claim.
Qatar hasn’t commented.  Whatever the result of the corruption claims “there’s
damage for FIFA and for the World Cup,” Junji Ogura, a member
of its executive, told the BBC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq  Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Morales  in London at   amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 