-- Fondiaria Considers Raising Capital After Reporting Fifth Consecutive Loss
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2010-11-10T17:05:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/fondiaria-considers-raising-capital-after-reporting-fifth-straight-loss.html
Fondiaria-Sai SpA , Italy’s second-
biggest insurer, is considering selling shares to raise capital
after the company posted its fifth consecutive quarterly loss.  The net loss widened to 201 million euros ($275 million) in
the third quarter from 24 million euros a year earlier on lower
income from investments and increased writedowns. That missed
the  average estimate  of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg for
a net loss of 154.2 million euros.  Fondiaria, which gets most of its revenue from property and
casualty insurance, is considering measures such as a capital
increase and the sale of assets to become profitable, Chief
Executive Officer  Fausto Marchionni  said in a statement today.  “A capital increase is possible, though improbable,”
Marchionni said during a conference call with analysts. The
company doesn’t plan to pay a dividend for 2010, he said.  Fondiaria  shares  dropped 3.9 percent to 7.05 euros in
Milan, the lowest level in more than 20 years, which gives the
company a market value of about 1.1 billion euros.  The insurer’s gross premiums rose 8 percent to 9.9 billion
euros in the first nine months. The combined ratio, a measure of
profitability, was 105.2 percent in the period, compared with
103.3 percent a year earlier. A ratio above 100 percent means an
insurer’s claims and costs exceed premium income, giving it a
loss from underwriting.  The insurer, which is based in Florence, said it wrote down
the value of assets available for sale by 350 million euros.
Fondiaria’s  Milano Assicurazioni SpA  unit is still in talks with
private-equity fund Clessidra SGR to sell its Liguria-SASA unit,
even if proposals received by Clessidra haven’t been
satisfactory, the company said.  Fondiaria’s holding company Premafin, controlled by Italy’s
Ligresti family, is proposing to sell a 17 percent stake through
a rights offering to Groupama SA, a French customer-owned
insurer, to strengthen the finances of both Premafin and
Fondiaria.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  