-- Fonterra Plans `Multiple' Farm, Plant Investments in China on Dairy Demand
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2010-11-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/fonterra-plans-multiple-dairy-investments-in-china-ceo-ferrier-says.html
Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd.  the
world’s largest dairy exporter, plans to boost its investments
in farms and plants in China to benefit from surging demand.  “Expect to see us investing in multiple farms in different
percentages and ultimately investing in processing facilities of
one type or another,”  Andrew Ferrier , chief executive officer
of the Auckland-based company, said in an interview.  Fonterra, with NZ$16.7 billion ($13 billion) in annual
sales, is seeking to rebuild its business in China after a
melamine contamination in 2008 killed at least six infants and
caused the collapse of its local partner Sanlu Group. The
company, which opened a farm in Hebei province in 2007, said
last month it will invest NZ$42 million in a second.  “You’re seeing number two within a year and, assuming it
goes well, we’d be looking at number three coming in closely
behind it,” Ferrier said yesterday. “We see China as a market
which will be served by Fonterra both with safe Chinese milk,
that will be our value proposition, and New Zealand milk.”  Fonterra accounts for about 40 percent of global trade in
butter, milk powder and cheese, and has sales in 140 countries.
China’s imports of whole milk powder rose almost fourfold in
2009 to 176,000 metric tons, representing about 12 percent of
the trade, according to an Australian government  report .  Sustained Growth  China has implemented new food-safety standards since the
scandal and is reviewing local authorities’ efforts regarding
milk powder and other products. Sustained growth in Chinese
demand for dairy products will see milk powder auction prices
remain stable at about $3,500 a metric ton for the rest of 2010
before “softening” in 2011, Ferrier said.  “If there’s going to be a softening in dairy prices, it’s
more likely to come in calendar 2011 driven by, for the most
part, higher production out of the U.S.,” he said. “We see a
scenario where U.S. production is stronger, more product hits
the market and prices soften a little bit.”  U.S. milk production climbed 3.3 percent in September from
a year earlier to 15.53 billion pounds, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture said in an Oct. 19  report . Average prices of all
products at Fonterra’s fortnightly  GlobalDairyTrade  auction have
gained 6 percent in 2010. Whole milk powder reached a 21-month
high of $4,092 a ton in April before slumping 29 percent to
$2,917 in August.  “Although it will be volatile, it will be in a tighter
band than what we’ve seen over the last couple of years,”
Ferrier said. “You could easily jump around 10 percent to 15
percent but 10 percent or 15 percent is less volatility than
we’ve had recently.”  ‘Logical Markets’  The U.S. “is one of the more logical markets to help fuel
growing Asian demand” and will increase its exports to Asia as
the region’s demand outstrips New Zealand and Australia’s
ability to supply consumers, Ferrier said. New Zealand may also
see demand for its product from traditional markets decrease as
more milk is exported to Asian countries, including China,
Indonesia and Vietnam, he said.  “As time goes on, markets that we have traditionally been
in that are further afield will become less served with New
Zealand product and more served with other product,” he said.
“Mexico has traditionally bought quite a bit of New Zealand
milk and they’re increasingly buying American milk and that’s a
natural change in flow.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Phoebe Sedgman  in Wellington at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs@bloomberg.net  