-- Former Soviet Debt Rally Triggered by Commodity Price Jump: Russia Credit
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2010-11-10T15:33:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/former-soviet-debt-rally-triggered-by-commodity-price-jump-russia-credit.html
Russian and Kazakh debt is catching
up with the rest of emerging markets as commodities prices rise
after the U.S. decision to add money to the economy.  Russia’s government bond due in 2015 climbed after the
Federal Reserve pledged Nov. 3 to buy $600 billion in Treasury
securities through next June, pushing the yield to 2.848 percent
today, close to a record low. The yield on 11.75 percent notes
due in 2015 of KazMunaiGaz National Co., the Kazakh state oil
and gas producer, fell 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point,
to 5.186 percent. Benchmark bond yields in Brazil and South
Africa, two other emerging-market commodities exporters, reached
two-week and 10-day highs in the same period.  Russian dollar bonds have returned 12.8 percent this year,
compared with a 16.6 percent advance for notes from the largest
developing nations, JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes show, as
sluggish growth and declining interest rates deterred investors.
Brazilian foreign-currency notes advanced 14.5 percent and
Philippines debt climbed 18.2 percent in the same period. Rising
prices for oil, gas and metals boost revenue for Russia and
other members of the Commonwealth of Independent States whose
recovery is tied to global commodity prices.  “There is a decent chance you can get outperformance
because we are in a pretty decent environment for commodities,”
said  Ian McCall , a director at Argo Capital Management in London
who manages $500 million of emerging-market debt. The former
Soviet Union “benefits the most of the group, as countries like
Russia and Kazakhstan are commodities exporters,” McCall said.  Commodities Rally  Prices for commodities increased to the highest level since
2008 after the Fed announced it will buy more Treasury bills to
inject money into the economy, a process in the U.S. and U.K.
known as quantitative easing.  Commodities have surged to a two-year high, as cotton and
gold reached records, silver touched the highest level in 30
years, and corn futures advanced to the highest price since
August 2008. The Standard & Poor’s  GSCI Index  of 24 commodities
gained as much as 1.8 percent yesterday to the highest since
Oct. 2, 2008.  “The announcement by the Fed is definitely supportive for
emerging-market credits,” said  Sergey Dergachev , who helps
manage $6 billion of emerging-market debt at Union Investments
in Frankfurt. The Fed’s buying of bonds in the U.S. “will
prolong the relatively attractive risk appetite and Russian
issuers should benefit from this ‘hunt for yield,’” he said.  ‘Implicit Hedge’  Russia is the world’s biggest energy exporter, while
Kazakhstan, holder of more than 3 percent of the world’s oil
according to BP Plc, is the largest uranium producer. Russia
pumped 10 million barrels of crude a day last year, versus 2.3
million for Kazakhstan. The relative cheapness of Russian and
Kazakh debt is an added lure for investors as oil prices rise.  “Russian assets offer an implicit hedge against the
potential inflationary consequences of quantitative easing by
the Fed,”  Scott Licamele , a partner at foreign-exchange broker
LoginFX in Moscow, said by telephone. “As a major commodities
exporter, the economy will continue to perform with a weaker
dollar and correspondingly higher oil and metals prices.”  The ruble was little changed at 30.6350 per dollar in
Moscow today, and has weakened 1.1 percent versus the greenback
so far this year. Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which
provide a guide to expectations of currency movements and
interest rate differentials and allow companies to hedge, show
the ruble at 30.9918 per dollar in three months.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps rose 3 basis points to 138
today, down from this year’s peak of 217 points, according to
data provider CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a debtor fail to adhere to its agreements.  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade, cost nine
basis points more than contracts for Turkey, which is rated four
levels lower at Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40 points less
on April 20. Brazil stood at 97 points.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries rose 11 basis points to 200 points,
according to JPMorgan EMBI+ indexes. The difference compares
with 138 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 176 for Brazil,
which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  Eurobonds Undervalued  “We recommend paying attention to Eurobonds of CIS
countries, particularly Russian Eurobonds as those are currently
undervalued compared with other emerging markets, such as Brazil
and Mexico,”  Dmitri Gritskevich , fixed income analyst at
Promsvyazbank in Moscow, said in a telephone interview.  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 44 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, near to the smallest
difference since September 2009 and down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan Indexes. Russian notes
yield 14 basis points more than Brazilian bonds and 53 points
more than Mexico’s.  Russia expects gross domestic product will grow 4 percent
this year compared with 7.5 percent for Brazil and 10.5 percent
for China, according to official forecasts.  Kazakhstan’s GDP expanded 7.5 percent in the first nine
months of the year, Prime Minister  Karim Massimov  said Oct. 25.  “I assume Russia and CIS credits to perform very well and
better than Asian and Latin American names, but should risk-
aversion materialize, Russia and the CIS should be hit much
harder,” said Dergachev at Union Investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Halia Pavliva  in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 