-- Former White Sox Executive Indicted on Kickback Charge
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-11-10T22:44:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/former-chicago-white-sox-executive-indicted-on-kickback-charge-by-jury.html
A former Chicago White Sox executive
and two Latin America scouts were indicted on federal charges
that they worked together to obtain illegal kickbacks from
prospective baseball players, said prosecutors in Chicago.  “The defendants were supposed to recruit players by paying
amounts of money that matched their skills and were no greater
than the amount needed to sign the players,” U.S. Attorney
 Patrick Fitzgerald  said today in an e-mailed statement.
“Instead the indictment alleges the defendants secretly
inflated those signing amounts to fund kickbacks for
themselves.”  David Wilder , who directed the Major League Baseball team’s
player development system from 2003 to 2006, was indicted by a
Chicago grand jury on seven counts of mail fraud, according to
the statement.  Wilder, who also served for two years as the team’s player-
personnel director, and co-defendants Jorge L. Oquendo Rivera
and Victor Mateo allegedly took $400,000 from signing bonuses
given 23 prospective players from December 2004 to February
2008.  Thomas Bienert, an attorney for Wilder, and Luis Rivera, a
lawyer for Oquendo, didn’t immediately respond to phone messages
seeking comment.  “Wilder and Mateo were terminated by the White Sox in May
2008 as a result of a Major League Baseball investigation which
began at the request of the team,” the White Sox said today in
a press statement.  Oquendo was fired in 2007 for reasons unrelated to the
probe, the team said.  Team’s Cooperation  The federal probe began, with the team’s cooperation, after
the franchise reported its internal findings to the league and
baseball officials referred the matter to federal authorities,
the White Sox said. The team won Major League Baseball’s
championship in 2005.  Wilder, 50, and Oquendo, 49, of Aguadilla, Puerto Rico,
face as long as 20 years in prison for each of seven mail fraud
counts against them. Oquendo was a Latin America scout for the
White Sox from 2004 to 2007.  They are expected to voluntarily appear for an as-yet-
unscheduled arraignment, Fitzgerald said.  Mateo, 39, who scouted in the Dominican Republic from
November 2006 to May 2008, faces three counts of mail fraud. An
arrest warrant was issued for the resident of Arroyo Hondo in
the Dominican Republic, the prosecutor said.  The case is U.S. v. Wilder, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago federal court
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 