-- BNP Paribas, Credit Agricole Face Former Traders in Paris Criminal Trial
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-10T11:24:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/former-bnp-credit-agricole-traders-s-paris-criminal-trial-mirrors-kerviel.html
BNP Paribas SA  and  Groupe Credit
Agricole  are confronting three former bond traders at a Paris
criminal trial on claims the men orchestrated deals in the 1990s
to inflate the bond prices and pocket the profits.  The traders, who worked for what are now units of the
banks, are accused by Paris prosecutors of abuse of trust and
fraud after a nearly 12-year probe found as much as 200 million
French francs ($34 million) was siphoned into overseas funds for
their use.  An investigation found the men “deliberately hid what was
being done from superiors,” Judge Agnes Quantin said in opening
the four-day trial Nov. 8.  The trial spotlights the practices of bond traders a decade
before  Jerome Kerviel ’s unauthorized derivatives trading cost
France’s second-largest bank,  Societe Generale SA , 4.9 billion
euros. Testimony at times echoed Kerviel’s June trial, with two
traders asserting they followed “normal” practices while the
banks said they had no idea what was happening.  Defendants  Ariel Cheminaud , 46, Noureddine Benameur, 49,
and Olivier Moulines, 49, deny the charges, and claim they never
collaborated or benefitted on the trades. The men face as much
as 375,000 euros in fines and five years in jail if convicted.  “These transactions were perfectly normal,” Cheminaud, a
broker for CPRI, part of  Credit Agricole  since 2000, said in
testimony Nov. 8.  Multiple Stops  The men traded illiquid bonds, selling them at a slightly
higher price to intermediaries in the U.K., which would then
resell them at still higher prices to offshore funds, according
to the investigation. Those funds, which the men allegedly
controlled, then sold the bonds back to the traders for even
more, producing profits that were hidden in the offshore funds.  Credit Agricole and BNP had no comment. The traders’
companies, which are seeking damages, filed the initial
complaints after routine checks found trading anomalies.  The investigation found records of phone calls and time-
stamps on orders and faxed confirmations that prove the amounts,
prices and buyers were arranged beforehand.  The time-stamp discrepancies could be explained by the time
difference between Paris and London, where an intermediary
bought the paper, Cheminaud said, adding the fact that his
supervisors executed one of his orders while he was on vacation
proved he hid nothing.  Guy Vernier, Benameur’s former boss at Banque de
Financement et de Tresorie, now part of  Credit Agricole SA ,
defended the trader’s actions.  “These operations were classic,” he said on Nov. 8. There
was “absolutely nothing shocking.”  Moulines worked at Financiere Kleber, an asset-management
company, since renamed by BNP. He introduced real estate
developer Elie Dahan, the fourth defendant, to Cheminaud, who
set up an account in Switzerland for Dahan’s sister. The
prosecution claims the men used that account as another transit
point for their trades, and that Dahan, accused of receipt of
stolen goods, profited as well.  Dahan said yesterday he consulted Moulines only on behalf
of his sister and “was never a beneficiary of the account.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 