-- France Joins Germany Ganging Up on Bondholders to Share Pain
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a
-- 2010-11-11T14:14:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/france-joins-germany-ganging-up-on-bondholders-to-share-pain-euro-credit.html
French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said investors must share the cost of sovereign debt
restructurings, backing a German call that helped send yields on
Irish and Portuguese bonds to record highs.  “All stakeholders must participate in the gains and losses
of any particular situation,” Lagarde said during an interview
yesterday in Paris for Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move”
with  Francine Lacqua . “There are many, many ways to address
this point of principle.”  Irish 10-year bonds dropped for a 13th day, driving the
yield up 19 basis points to 8.95 percent and the  risk premium 
over benchmark German 10-year bunds to a record 652 basis
points. Ten-year Portuguese yields rose 9 basis points to 7.27
percent, while Greek and Spanish bond yields also climbed.  Lagarde’s comments mark France’s most explicit backing of
German proposals to make bondholders contribute in bailouts,
which deepened the slump in bonds of the so-called euro
peripherals. Risk premiums that investors demand to buy their
debt have risen since an Oct. 29 European Union summit when
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  sparred with European Central
Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  over forcing bondholders to
take losses in restructurings, so-called haircuts.  “We do have differing approaches,” Merkel told reporters
after the summit.  The clash continued during the past two weeks, pummeling
European bond markets.  ‘Nail in the Coffin’  “Lagarde’s comments mentioned restructuring, and that’s
another nail in the coffin” for peripheral debt, said  Steven Major , global head of fixed-income research at HSBC Holdings Plc
in London. “There’s still a big constituency of investors and
traders who have not recognized until now that restructuring
could happen.”  The spread between yields of Irish 10-year bonds and German
bunds has widened more than 200 basis points since Merkel began
her push for burden sharing.  German officials are sticking to their guns amid the bond
market rout.  “We do also need creditors to be involved in the costs of
restructuring,” Merkel said today in Seoul, where she’s
attending a summit of the Group of 20 leaders. “There may be a
conflict here between the interests of the financial world and
the interests of politicians. We can’t constantly explain to our
voters that taxpayers have to be on the hook for certain risks,
rather than those who make a lot of money taking those risks. I
ask the markets sometimes to bear politicians in mind, too.”  Trichet’s Stance  Trichet says such talk risks exacerbating the situation for
indebted nations as they struggle to cut their budget deficits.  “The more you talk about restructuring debt, the harder it
is to obtain debt,” Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said
Nov. 2. “That is the reality.”  “They are making it more likely that countries like
Ireland and Portugal will be forced to restructure their debt,”
said  John Stopford , head of fixed income at London-based
Investec Asset Management Ltd., which oversees $65 billion.
“There should potentially be some conditionalities, otherwise
it will become a self-fulfilling prophecy.”  The cost of insuring Irish debt gained 20 basis points to a
record 617 basis points, according to data provider CMA. Credit
default swaps for Portugal added 17 basis points to 494. Fallout
from the slump in Ireland and Portugal pushed up the default
risk on Spanish debt 12 basis points to 289.  Irish and Portuguese debt has suffered the biggest declines
this month among the world’s government bonds. Ireland has
dropped 8.6 percent since the Oct. 29 EU summit and Portuguese
bonds have shed 5.9 percent.  Portugal Bid  Portuguese Finance Minister  Fernando Teixeira dos Santos 
urged the EU yesterday to clarify how the so-called crisis
mechanism will operate.  EU leaders plan to map out by December how a permanent
bailout facility might work, and also study how to treat private
bondholders and whether to involve the International Monetary
Fund. The new system would kick in when temporary measures, set
up this year to rescue Greece and protect the euro, expire in
2013.  “We have to make an appeal at the European level for the
European institutions to rapidly, with the greatest possible
urgency, clarify the terms in which this mechanism will
function,” Teixeira dos Santos told reporters in Lisbon.  Lagarde cited several ways in which investors would share
the losses in a bond scheduling with taxpayers.  “I’m not specially focused on haircuts,” she said. “We
can insist on having in any issuance and in any agreements a
collective action clause under which any lender agrees that if
something goes wrong, the lender will actually participate in
the plan that will solve the difficulty, in the same way that
you can have rescheduling over time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Deen  in Paris at   markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  