-- French Industrial Production Increased in September, Manufacturing Dropped
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2010-11-10T07:46:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/french-industrial-production-increased-in-september-manufacturing-dropped.html
French industrial production
increased in September as households boosted spending.  Output from factories, mines and utilities rose 0.1 percent
after stalling in August, Paris-based national statistics office
Insee said today. Economists had forecast a 0.5 percent gain,
according to the median of 17 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey.  French manufacturers are increasingly confident of their
prospects as demand from domestic businesses and consumers is
picking up more than a year after France exited its worst
recession since World War II. The Bank of France said yesterday
that  confidence among factory managers  improved for a second
month and predicted the economy will expand 0.5 percent in the
fourth quarter.  “France’s growth has recovered in a very firm way,”
French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said yesterday. “With
exports there have been ups and downs, but they are growing. The
second motor of growth is private-sector investment, which has
at last restarted.”  Insee will publish its first estimate of third-quarter
gross domestic product on Nov. 12.  Manufacturing production, which excludes utilities and
mining, fell 0.1 percent in September from August.  Still, with growth in the U.S. and emerging economies
slowing and a stronger euro making French goods less competitive
abroad, exports and confidence may falter in the months ahead.  “All industrial companies that have costs in euros are, of
course, concerned about the volatility” of currencies, Lagarde
said. The euro’s recent gain is a concern as “there’s an
obvious link between industry and exchange-rate movements.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  