-- G-20 Unity Born in Crisis Fractures as Leaders Pursue Own Ends
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-10T12:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/g-20-unity-born-in-financial-crisis-fractures-as-leaders-pursue-own-ends.html
President  Barack Obama  finds himself
on the defensive as world leaders gather in Seoul for the Group
of 20 summit, with members disparaging U.S. economic policies
they say weaken the dollar and stoke hot-money flows.  The U.S. Federal Reserve decision last week to pump $600
billion into world’s biggest economy has stolen the spotlight
away from China’s currency. Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said today that the Fed’s move may inflate commodities
prices and proposed the world move away from using the dollar as
the main reserve currency. Former Chinese central bank governor
 Dai Xianglong  this week faulted the U.S. for adopting policies
without regard for the dollar’s global role.  The policy fissures and concern countries may react with
currency devaluations and capital controls underscore how the
G-20 unity displayed during the financial crisis has given way
to national divisions as members chart their own recovery path.  “The last thing a developing economy wants is for that
liquidity to distort their asset markets and create a
destabilizing bubble,”  Stephen Roach , Morgan Stanley’s
nonexecutive Asia chairman, told Bloomberg Television in an
interview yesterday. “The process is not going to work if they
don’t come up with a multilateral solution.”  Stemming Liquidity  China, the world’s biggest holder of foreign exchange,
yesterday took steps to stem capital inflows that threaten to
drive up stock and property prices and today raised bank reserve
requirements. South Korea may revive a 14 percent tax on
domestic Treasury and central bank bonds held by foreigners as
early as January to curb foreign-exchange volatility, a ruling
party lawmaker said today.  Obama told G-20 leaders in a letter released today that
“the most important contribution” the U.S. can make to the
global economy is a strong U.S. recovery.  “What the Fed has done is absolutely the right strategy
for the U.S. economy, and absolutely the right strategy for the
rest of the world as well,” said  Stuart Thomson , a fund manager
at Glasgow-based Ignis Asset Management, which manages about 70
billion pounds ($113 billion) in assets. “They’ve got to get
their growth, they’re just not so keen on the price for which
they’re going to that growth via the exchange rate.”  Summit Skirmishes  Pre-summit skirmishes -- Germany has also criticized the
Fed’s quantitative easing -- will test the G-20’s ability to
recover the consensus that enabled participants to embark on $5
trillion of fiscal stimulus to end the world’s worst economic
downturn in seven decades. Their first meeting, hosted by former
President  George W. Bush  in 2008, came two months after the
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  “Today the volume of transactions done in U.S. dollars
surpasses by a long way the economic importance of the U.S.,”
Mantega told reporters today in Seoul.  After uniting to rescue banks and cut interest rates and
taxes to fight the credit crunch, members have since clashed on
the withdrawal of stimulus, taxes on financial speculation and
trade imbalances.  “The international community united as one spirit during
the crisis,” South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  said Nov. 3.
“There are doubts over whether such cooperation can be achieved
now the global economy is entering a recovery phase, with each
country growing at a different pace.”  Korean Reserves  South Korea has $293 billion of foreign exchange reserves,
more than 10 times the amount it held in July 1997 when the
Asian financial crisis sparked currency collapses and a region-
wide recession.  China also joined Germany in rejecting as inappropriate a
suggestion by Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  that the
G-20 consider targets to rein in excessive current-account
imbalances that can roil exchange rates. Today German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  said “Germany will not accept quantifiable
targets” on trade surpluses.  China today reported a larger-than-forecast $27.1 billion
trade surplus for October, the second-largest this year. The
yuan climbed to the strongest level against the dollar since
1993, with the People’s Bank of China setting the daily
reference rate at 6.645 yuan per dollar, the biggest gain since
Oct. 8.  Seeping Funds  Morgan Stanley’s Roach said funds provided by the Fed’s
bond purchases are seeping out of the U.S. in search of higher
returns. The Australian dollar has surged past the greenback in
value for the first time while commodities such as cotton, gold
and copper are all trading at or close to record highs.  Some of the concerns have been overstated, World Bank
President  Robert Zoellick  said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today in Singapore.  “Even if you didn’t have quantitative easing, as long as
you have differential growth rates you’re going to see capital
flow to these emerging markets,” he said.  G-20 finance ministers and central bankers did agree last
month to avoid competitive currency devaluations in a statement
that is set to form the basis for the leaders’ communique this
week. They also managed to rebalance voting rights at the
International Monetary Fund to give emerging economies a greater
say in the global financial system.  The expanded number of voices at the table after the G-20
replaced the G-7 as the leading body to manage the global
economy may help explain the increased noise, said  Michael Paulus , head of the Asia Public Sector Group at Citigroup Inc.
in Hong Kong, and a former U.S. Treasury official.  “When you’ve got 20 members that are trying to agree on
something it is much harder than when there were seven,” he
said. If the Fed didn’t do the extra quantitative easing and
“the U.S. economy went back into a double dip and shrank 2
percent, say in 2011, is the dollar going to go up? Is that
going to help anyone?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Forsythe  in Seoul at  mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  