-- G-20 to Debate Swapping Dollar Role for Basket of Currencies, Mantega Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-11-10T13:28:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/g-20-to-debate-swapping-dollar-role-for-basket-of-currencies-mantega-says.html
Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said the Group of 20 nations may discuss reducing the
dollar’s role as a reserve currency in favor of a basket that
could include the real and yuan.  “The U.S. economy used to reign absolute, it was the
strongest economy in the world and stood out from the others,”
Mantega said at a press conference in Seoul. “Today that is no
longer the case.”  The  percentage  of dollars held in reserves stockpiles
throughout the world has dropped to 62 percent as of the end of
June, from as high as 64 percent at the beginning of 2008 and a
record 73 percent in 2001, according to International Monetary
Fund data. The greenback is down against all but five of
the 25 emerging market currencies tracked by Bloomberg this
year, as near-zero U.S. borrowing costs spur record inflows of
capital into higher yielding assets in developing economies.  The largest emerging nations are calling to reduce the
dollar’s importance in the global financial system as they try
to competitively devalue their exchange rates to bolster
exports. Mantega said the “currency war” will be the main
theme for Brazil at the G-20 meeting.  ‘Moment’  A new system could see reserves made up of dollars, euros,
yen, British pounds, yuan and reais, Mantega said. China’s yuan
jumped to its strongest level against the dollar since 1993
today, amid speculation regulators in the world’s fastest
growing economy will permit the managed currency to appreciate
at a faster pace before the summit in Seoul.  “Now is the moment to think about a transition where there
would be new currencies that would be the parameters for
international trade,” Mantega said.  China is unlikely to support a framework where the yuan
becomes a staple of reserve stockpiles around the world because
that would mean making the currency fully convertible and
allowing more inflows in to the country, said  Beat Siegenthaler ,
a currency strategist at UBS AG.  “This more shows the helplessness of countries like Brazil
in the face of quantitative easing, there’s not much they can do
about it so they lash out,” Siegenthaler said by phone from
Zurich. “They can criticize the U.S. and bring up this idea of
replacing the dollar in reserves but in reality the U.S.
couldn’t care less.”  The dollar climbed to a four-week high against the yen
today and rose versus the euro as an increase in Treasury yields
made assets denominated in the greenback more attractive to
international investors.  Criticism  The U.S. is likely to face criticism at the summit for the
Federal Reserve’s $600 billion planned purchase of Treasuries,
announced Nov. 3, Mantega said. Quantitative easing will inflate
asset bubbles in emerging markets without reviving the U.S.
economy, he said.  G-20 nations need to pressure President Obama to engage in
further fiscal stimulus, Mantega added.  “We can’t go on with the monetary system that we have
today which is that the dollar dominates as the reserve currency
together with the euro and the yen,”  Kobsidthi Silpachai , head
of capital markets research at Thailand’s Kasikornbank Pcl, said
by phone from Bangkok. “If those currencies continue to
depreciate everybody suffers.”  The Brazilian real weakened for a fourth straight day in
Sao Paulo, slipping 0.1 percent to 1.7025 per dollar at 8:04
a.m. in New York.  The Brazilian real has more than doubled in value since
President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  took office in January 2003,
with investors lured by the highest interest rates in the G-20,
adjusted for inflation. The central bank raised the nation’s
benchmark interest rate this year 2 percentage points to 10.75
percent.  Consumer prices rose 5.20 percent in the year through
October.  Brazil tripled a tax last month that foreigners must pay to
invest in the country’s debt to try and limit inflows of capital
that helped drive the currency to a two-year high on Oct. 13.
They also levied a 6 percent tax on foreigners entering the
Brazilian derivatives market.  Policy makers will continue to stem gains in the real and
discourage short-term foreign investment in the country, Mantega
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Bristow  in Seoul at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
 Emma O’Brien  in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at   lzelenko@bloomberg.net  