-- Gap Starts China Online Sales as Shops in Beijing, Shanghai Open
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-11T04:55:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/gap-starts-online-sales-in-china-as-clothier-opens-beijing-shanghai-shops.html
Gap Inc. , the San-Francisco based
operator of more than 3,000 clothing shops, opened its first
store in China and began online sales to tap the country’s more
than 400 million Internet users.  The  website  starts taking orders today, said  John Ermatinger , president for Gap in Asia. The clothier opened a
store in Shanghai today, its first in China, from where it buys
30 percent of its clothes, Ermatinger said.  The market for clothing and footwear retailers in the
world’s  most-populous country  may expand to 338 billion yuan
($51 billion) this year, almost double the size five years ago,
according to data from Euromonitor International. China’s
middle-income and affluent consumers will probably almost triple
in 10 years, according to Boston Consulting Group Inc.  “If you look at how fast the middle class is growing here
in China, the opportunity for a brand like  Gap , which really is
in that in-between zone -- you could do the math,” Ermatinger
said in an interview in Shanghai yesterday.  Gap faces challenges from overseas and domestic clothes
retailers including  Esprit Holdings Ltd. , the biggest Hong Kong-
listed clothier, which is also considering setting up an online
sales network in China.  China’s unprecedented growth over the past 30 years saw it
overtake Japan in the second quarter to become the world’s
second-biggest economy. Still, per capita gross domestic product
is low, ranking the nation below the 100th position in the world,
 Ma Jiantang , head of the National Bureau of Statistics, said in
January.  China Expansion  Ermatinger declined to give a sales target for the
company’s stores in China.  Gap  derives 12 percent of its $14
billion annual  sales  from outside the U.S., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Gap  will open two outlets in Beijing on Nov. 13 and one
more in Shanghai later this year, Ermatinger said. A fifth store
will open in Hong Kong in the third quarter next year, he said.  Hong Kong-based women’s-shoe retailer  Belle International
Holdings Ltd.  had the biggest market share in China’s apparel
industry, at 6.5 percent in 2009, according to Euromonitor.  China had more than 420 million Internet users in June,
exceeding the combined populations of the U.S. and Germany,
according to data from the China Internet Network Information
Center.  -- Michael Wei . Editors:  Frank Longid ,  Garry Smith   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Wei in Beijing at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  