-- General Electric Plans to Spend $500 Million to Expand Brazil Businesses
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2010-11-10T19:10:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/ge-to-spend-500-million-to-expand-output-research-in-brazil.html
General Electric Co.  will spend $500
million to expand energy, transportation and health-care
manufacturing in Brazil while adding its fifth global research
center as Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  takes advantage
of faster growth in emerging markets.  GE will spend $400 million in the next three years on
development of wind turbines and related products, and building
and expanding plant capacity for its oil and gas, health care,
aviation and lighting businesses, the company said in a
statement. The $100 million research center will be in Rio de
Janeiro.  The Fairfield, Connecticut-based company announced a $2
billion China investment earlier this week and named Vice
Chairman John Rice to oversee international operations as Immelt
looks to speed exports and expand partnerships in countries that
are building infrastructure to support economic growth. The
research center joins those in New York state, Shanghai,
Bangalore and Munich.  “Brazil offers GE some of the most sophisticated and
aggressive customers in the world,”  Nani Beccalli-Falco , chief
executive of GE International, said in the statement. The
research center “will be a hub for deepening relationships that
will result in growth for GE, its customers and the country.”  Today’s investment should create 1,000 jobs, GE said in the
statement. The company is the world’s biggest maker of medical-
imaging equipment and related information technology systems,
locomotives and jet engines. Its power-generation equipment
provides one-third of the world’s electricity.  The research center, located on the Ilha do Bom Jesus
peninsula, will have about 200 engineers and researchers that
focus on oil and gas, renewable energy, mining, rail and
aviation, GE said. It will also include a training center.  GE had about 304,000  employees  at the end of 2009, with
6,000 in Brazil.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 