-- General Growth Rises on First Day After Bankruptcy Exit; Plans Dividend
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2010-11-10T21:28:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/general-growth-rises-on-first-day-after-bankruptcy-exit-plans-dividend.html
General Growth Properties Inc. , the
company that exited the largest U.S. real estate bankruptcy
yesterday, rose 6.7 percent in New York in its first day of
trading as solely a mall landlord.  General Growth retained its mall properties and spun off
its commercial and land-development business as part of the
reorganization. The real estate development company,  Howard
Hughes Corp ., began trading today on standalone basis.  “They’re out, they’ve accomplished their near-term goal,”
 Bill Kavaler , an analyst at Oscar Gruss & Son Inc. in New York,
said of General Growth. “We’ll see how it performs as a company
and a stock now that they’re out and on their own.”  General Growth, the second largest U.S. shopping-mall
owner, plans to pay a regular quarterly dividend of about 10
cents a share starting next year, the Chicago-based company said
in a statement today. It will also pay a one-time dividend tied
to 2010 income, with 90 percent in shares and 10 percent in
cash.  The company filed for Chapter 11 protection in April 2009
after weighing itself down with $27 billion in debt that it was
unable to refinance because of the financial crisis and collapse
of the commercial mortgage-backed securities market. The
company’s restructuring plan provided a full recovery for
creditors and a rare recovery for shareholders.  Shopping Center Sale  General Growth rose 93 cents to $14.73 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading, after earlier reaching
$14.85. It was the biggest gain since July. Hughes Corp. shares
were at $36.90 on its first day of trading as an independent
company.  The landlord also said it agreed to sell the Gateway
Overlook Shopping Center in Columbia, Maryland. The $90 million
transaction will reduce General Growth’s debt by about $55
million.  General Growth said it decided to pay a $220 million
settlement to the heirs of Howard Hughes in cash rather than
shares. General Growth also plans to pay off a $350 million loan
from Pershing Square Capital Management LLP in cash.  Simon Property Group Inc. , based in Indianapolis, is the
largest U.S. mall owner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Louis  in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 