-- GM Reports $2.16 Billion Profit Ahead of Share Sale
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2010-11-10T20:06:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/general-motors-third-quarter-net-income-2-billion-in-line-with-forecast.html
General Motors Co.  reported third-
quarter net income of $2.16 billion, in line with preliminary
results given last week, as the largest U.S. automaker prepares
for an initial public offering.  Earnings before interest and taxes rose to $2.28 billion
from $2.03 billion during the previous three months of the year,
the Detroit-based company said today in a statement. Revenue was
$34.1 billion.  Chief Executive Officer  Dan Akerson , who took over from  Ed Whitacre  on Sept. 1, has said GM can make “significant” profit
even amid a U.S. auto  sales rate  that is running about 30
percent slower than before the financial crisis. The automaker,
61 percent owned by the U.S. government, reduced costs through
bankruptcy and is selling new cars for higher prices.  “GM’s numbers were as advertised and they were good,”
said  Joe Phillippi , principal of consulting firm AutoTrends Inc.
in Short Hills, New Jersey. “As they ramp up production --
assuming people like their cars -- in three to five years, they
could be hitting some much bigger numbers.”  GM plans to raise as much as $10.6 billion by selling 365
million shares at $26 to $29 each, according to a Nov. 3 filing
with the  Securities and Exchange Commission . The company also
will offer about $3 billion of preferred shares that later will
become common stock. GM has said the offering may price as soon
as Nov. 17.  North American Operations  The automaker’s North American operations had profit before
interest and taxes of $2.13 billion, a 33 percent increase from
the second quarter’s $1.59 billion. GM said production in the
region rose 33 percent to 707,000 vehicles, including a 51
percent gain in truck output.  “They’ve grown in emerging markets and they continue to do
well in emerging markets, but North America was the anchor that
took them into bankruptcy,”  Dennis Virag , president of
Automotive Consulting Group in Ann Arbor, Michigan, said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “How North America goes, so
goes GM.”  GM is telling prospective investors that it can earn $19
billion before interest and taxes if U.S. vehicle sales return
to previous highs of around 17 million a year, said two people
familiar with the presentation. U.S. light-vehicle sales peaked
at 17.4 million in 2000.  Europe Loss  Earnings before interest and taxes at GM’s  international
operations  slipped 3.9 percent from the previous quarter to $646
million. The loss in the automaker’s European operations widened
to $559 million before interest and taxes, more than triple the
$160 million in the three months ended June 30. GM Europe lost
$1.2 billion on an Ebit basis in three quarters this year.  “We know we have much more work to do,” Akerson, 62, said
today on a conference call. “We still need to fix Europe. We
continue to be vigilant in reducing cost in the enterprise, and
we have just started doing a better job in marketing our brands
to consumers.”  The automaker generated $2.62 billion in cash from
operations and said it ended the quarter with $33.5 billion in
cash and marketable securities.  GM’s $34.1 billion in third-quarter revenue compares with
$25.1 billion in a year-earlier period that was nine days
shorter because the company was in bankruptcy.  Fourth-Quarter Outlook  While earnings before interest and taxes will be positive
in the fourth quarter, they will be “significantly lower” than
the run rate in the first three quarters of the year, Akerson
said on the call.  GM said in its Nov. 3 regulatory filing that Ebit would be
lower than prior quarters because it will be building a
 different mix  of vehicles and engineering costs for future
models will be higher. GM is introducing the Chevrolet Volt gas-
electric car and Chevy Cruze compact during the quarter.  The company and its Chinese joint ventures are on pace to
sell 2 million vehicles this year in the world’s largest auto
market, GM said last week. GM’s partnerships, which include  SAIC
Motor Corp.  and Wuling Group, earned $1.1 billion of equity
income net of tax this year through Sept. 30.  GM will pay $51 million in cash and provide technical
services to raise its stake in Wuling to 44 percent, the company
said today in an updated filing of its IPO prospectus.  BRIC Share  The automaker emphasizes its presence in Brazil, Russia,
India and China in its IPO roadshow. GM says it has a 13 percent
consolidated market share in the so-called BRIC markets.
 Volkswagen AG  is second at 11.1 percent, according to GM. BRIC
markets are forecast to increase deliveries by 13.9 million by
2014, according to IHS Global Insight data.  “From what we’re hearing, the roadshow has gone really
well,”  Geoffrey Tirman , president of Talisman Capital SA in
Chexbres, Switzerland, which manages $110 million, including
bonds that will convert into GM shares. “My guess is there will
be a lot of secondary demand in the market, especially if they
keep the IPO priced low.”  GM’s U.S. sales rose 6.6 percent to 1,818,274 through the
first 10 months, helped by demand for the Buick LaCrosse sedan
as well as the Chevrolet Equinox and Cadillac SRX sport-utility
vehicles, according to researcher Autodata Corp. Industrywide
sales rose 11 percent in the same period.  The average transaction prices on the LaCrosse, Equinox and
SRX in the third quarter increased $7,500, $3,900 and $900,
respectively, from the second quarter of 2009, GM said in a
 presentation  to investors related to its IPO.  GM has reduced U.S. hourly labor costs to an estimated $5
billion this year, from $16 billion in 2005, Chief Financial
Officer  Chris Liddell  said in the roadshow presentation.  Pensions Obligation  The company’s pension obligation was $29 billion as of
Sept. 30, according to a regulatory filing today. The obligation
was $26 billion as of June 30. The increase was due mostly to
lower discount rates, the company said.  GM dropped an underwriter for its IPO and preferred share
offering after one of the bank’s employees sent an unauthorized
e-mail to potential investors that may have violated securities
laws, according to the filing today. GM didn’t identify the
underwriter.  UBS AG  of Zurich, listed as an underwriter in GM’s
preliminary filing on Oct. 28, was the only bank to be omitted
from its subsequent filings since the automaker set the terms of
its sale on Nov. 3.  Kelly Smith , a UBS spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  If regulators determine that the e-mail constituted a
violation of the Securities Act of 1933, GM may be liable for
damages from buyers of the IPO or preferred offering that
received the message, today’s filing showed.  General Motors Financial Co. , the finance unit that GM
acquired last month, said yesterday net income almost doubled to
$51.3 million in the three months through Sept. 30, from $25.8
million a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 