-- General Electric May Revive Plans for Wind Turbine Production in Turkey
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2010-11-10T10:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/general-electric-may-revive-plans-for-wind-turbine-production-in-turkey.html
General Electric Co. , which aims to
to expand its Turkish energy business as the state sells power
assets, may revive a plan developed before the 2008 credit
crisis to build wind turbines in the country.  Local unit General Elektrik Ticaret & Servis AS may start
manufacturing turbines and so-called nacelle casings, with half
the output likely to be sold within Turkey as the government
targets a 20-fold increase in wind capacity by 2020, said  Mete Maltepe , head of GE’s local energy unit.  Turkish companies have been going overseas to buy wind-
generation equipment because they relied on export insurers such
as  Euler Hermes SA , the world’s largest insurer of trade credit,
when financing was scarce. Generators will be more likely to buy
domestically as the global recovery takes hold and more loan
facilities become available, Maltepe said.  “If the number of companies that need financing through
export insurers such as Hermes falls, and we do expect it to
change, then we may dust off plans to make the equipment in
Turkey,” he said. “We are ready for that.”  GE will expand its energy business in Turkey and keep
overall investment in the nation the same even after the sale of
a stake in the country’s second largest bank,  Kursat Ozkan , head
of GE’s Turkish operations, said Oct. 1.  GE agreed to sell 18.6 percent of  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi
AS  to Spain’s  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria  SA for $3.78
billion as part of a global effort to reduce financial assets,
The Fairfield, Connecticut-based company said Nov. 2.  Government Target  GE wants to generate “significant” business as Turkey
increases wind power capacity to 20,000 megawatts by 2020 from
less than 1,000 megawatts now, Maltepe said. Currently GE gets
turbine wings and poles from Turkish producers.  GE has provided about 8,000 megawatts, or 17 percent, of
Turkey’s power capacity, mainly with gas and steam turbines and
some wind turbines, Maltepe said. GE turbines account for about
30 percent of total generation, he said.  A planned government incentive of 5.5 euro cents a
kilowatt-hour to wind power producers needs to be increased to
at least 7.5 cents to justify investments, he said. The subsidy
is awaiting parliamentary approval.  The draft guarantees a price of 5.5 euro cents per
kilowatt-hour for wind and hydroelectric power and 10 cents for
solar energy, Energy Minister Taner Yildiz said in Ankara.
Companies are already investing in wind power at those levels
and they’re “investable figures,” he said.  Wind turbine prices, which fell during the global economic
crisis, have steadied and will start rising unless other, less
costly sources of renewable energy are developed, Maltepe said.  Middle East  GE Energy Financial Services, a GE unit, bought half of
Ankara-based Gama Enerji AS in 2007 and announced plans to
invest at least $4 billion until 2015 to build 3,000 megawatts
of power plants in Turkey and the Middle East. GE will invest in
energy by itself or with a partner as Turkey expects to double
national power capacity to 90,000 megawatts in 10 years, said
Orkan, GE’s country chief.  The company will seek to tap a market for so-called smart
grids that may be worth $2 billion after the government sells
off electricity distribution assets, Maltepe said. The
government will raise as much as $16 billion from the sale of 20
electricity grids, due to be completed by the end of this year,
Energy Minister  Taner Yildiz  said Oct. 12.  “We don’t expect new operators of the grids to immediately
start seeking smart grid systems as they will first have to deal
with the existing network improvements,” Maltepe said. “We are
already in talks with four or five companies on this but we
expect the real interest in smart grids within two years.”  Smart grids use digital technology to optimize power use.
Siemens AG and Areva SA are the main competitors in this market,
Maltepe said.  GE’s energy unit may buy Turkish companies that make
equipment for low- and medium-voltage transmission networks,
Maltepe said. “We are looking around and in talks for this but
we don’t know when the talks will conclude.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ercan Ersoy  in Istanbul 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 