-- Irish Government Bonds Lead Peripheral Rout as Margin Requirement Raised
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2010-11-10T17:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/german-bonds-decline-for-second-day-as-investors-prepare-to-absorb-issues.html
Irish 10-year bonds tumbled for a
12th day, leading a rout in debt from Portugal to Greece, as LCH
Clearnet Ltd. demanded its clients place a larger deposit when
trading the nation’s securities after yields soared.  The Irish  bond  posted its longest losing streak in at least
three years, sending the yield difference, or spread, over
benchmark German 10-year debt to a record. Ten-year Portuguese
yields jumped 26 basis points to 7.17 percent, while Greek and
Spanish bonds also slumped. Bunds slipped as a sale of two-year
notes attracted the lowest demand since May. The euro weakened
and stocks declined.  “The increase in margin requirements affected not just
Irish debt,” said  Christoph Rieger , head of fixed-income
strategy at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. The impact “is mainly
restricted to Ireland, Portugal and Greece, but to a certain
degree Spain also. Tensions are more likely to exacerbate rather
than improve.”  The yield on the Irish 10-year bond surged 67 basis points
to 8.76 percent at 5:06 p.m. in London. The 5 percent security
maturing in October 2020 slid 3.74, or 37.4 euros per 1,000-euro
($1,374) face amount, to 75.74. The spread over bunds soared to
an all-time high of 622 basis points, or 6.22 percentage points,
according to Bloomberg generic data.  That compares with the record 973 basis-point premium on
Greek 10-year debt, reached May 7, before the European Union
crafted a rescue package worth 750 billion euros.  The yield on the 10-year bund, Europe’s benchmark
government security, rose four basis points to 2.45 percent.  The euro weakened against the dollar, falling 0.3 percent
to $1.3733. It dropped to $1.3671 earlier today. The Stoxx
Europe 600  Index  lost 0.7 percent.  Irish CDS  The cost of insuring Irish debt rose. Credit-default swaps
on Irish government debt surged 18 basis points to 585 basis
points, according to data provider CMA. Contracts on Portuguese
debt increased 14 basis points to 467 basis points.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. An increase
signals a deterioration in perceptions of credit quality.  LCH said today that an additional margin requirement of 15
percent will be charged on investors’ net exposure from
tomorrow, and the change will be reflected in a margin call in
two days.  Margin Requirements  The world’s second-largest fixed-income clearing house told
clients on Oct. 5 that it was considering the move after the
 yield  on Irish 10-year bonds rose to more than 450 basis points
above a euro-region AAA benchmark bond. Irish debt has plunged
on concern that the cost of bailing out the nation’s banks has
made the government debt load unsustainable.  Bonds from so-called peripheral nations, which include
Ireland, Greece, Portugal, Spain and Italy, have dropped since
European Union leaders agreed on Oct. 29 to consider German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s proposal for a permanent rescue
mechanism as of 2013 that would involve debt restructuring with
losses for private holders of sovereign debt. The proposal is
part of discussions to create a permanent debt-crisis facility
to replace the rescue fund created in May after Greece’s near-
default and expires in 2013.  Portuguese Finance Minister  Fernando Teixeira dos Santos 
today urged the EU to decide how such a mechanism will work.  “We have to make an appeal at the European level for the
European institutions to rapidly, with the greatest possible
urgency, clarify the terms in which this mechanism will
function,” he told reporters in Lisbon.  Bond Sales  “No one is demonizing or blaming the market,” Teixeira
dos Santos said. The main reason for the sell-off is
“uncertainty” over the future mechanism, which is “penalizing
the peripheral countries.”  The German government sold 4.93 billion euros of new
1 percent securities due December 2012. Investors bid for 1.4
times the amount of notes on sale, down from a so-called bid-to-
cover ratio of 2.2 times at the previous auction of similar
securities on Oct. 6.  Portuguese 10-year securities extended their declines for a
third day, with the 10-year yield 26 basis points higher at 7.17
percent. The Portuguese-German yield spread widened 35 basis
points to a record 467 basis points, according to Bloomberg
generic data.  Portugal sold 556 million euros of bonds due in 2016 and
686 million euros of bonds due in 2020, the country’s debt
management agency said today.  The Greek 10-year bond yield rose 26 basis points to 11.71
percent, pushing the spread over bunds as wide as 902 basis
points, according to Bloomberg generic data.  ‘Terrible Yield Levels’  The extra yield investors demand to hold peripheral debt
may continue to rise, according to  David Schnautz , a fixed-
income strategist at Commerzbank in London.  “We expect these terrible yield levels to give the overall
discussion about a possible far-reaching solution to the
Eurozone debt crisis another boost,” Schnautz wrote in an e-
mailed report today. “We still see the risks of a further
spread-widening prevailing. That fits our view to be cautious on
Eurozone government-bond spreads over bunds towards year-end.”  A bailout of Ireland and Portugal through the  European
Financial Stability Facility  would resolve current market
tension and not lead to contagion, according to Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  No Contagion  “The likelihood of Ireland and Portugal entering an IMF-
designed adjustment program funded by the EFSF has, in our view,
increased,” Francesco Garzarelli , chief interest-rate
strategist at Goldman in London, wrote in a research report
today. ‘Unlike in the aftermath of the Greek ‘bailout,’ we are
of the view that such an outcome will not lead to contagion.
Rather, it may mark a resolution of ongoing European Monetary
Union sovereign tensions.”  Italian bonds dropped for a fifth consecutive day as the
nation sold 5.5 billion euros of 12-month Treasury bills. The
bills were sold at an average yield of 1.78 percent. Investors
bid for 2.09 times the amount of bills on sale. That compares
with a bid-to-cover of 2.16 at the previous auction of similar-
maturity bills on Oct. 12.  Italian 10-year bond yields increased nine basis points to
4.13 percent. The Spanish 10-year bond fell, headed for its 12th
successive daily decline. The yield gained 11 basis points to
4.53 percent.  German bonds have returned 8.6 percent this year, compared
with an 8.2 percent gain for U.S. Treasuries, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish bonds gained 0.2 percent,
while Italian securities rose 2.8 percent, the indexes show.
Portuguese bonds lost 9 percent, while Irish securities declined
11.2 percent, according to the indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  