-- Global Stocks Fuel Multi-Year Bull Market, Morgan Stanley's Reinhard Says
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2010-11-10T22:50:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/global-stocks-fuel-multi-year-bull-market-morgan-stanley-s-reinhard-says.html
Now is a good time for investors to
get into the stock market, as rising profits and a growing
middle class power a “multi-year bull market,” particularly in
the U.S. and emerging markets, according to  Charles Reinhard , a
global investment strategist at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney.  “We have a two-speed recovery -- with emerging market
countries growing at 6 percent, developed countries growing at 2
percent -- and we have equities that are an extraordinary
value,” Reinhard said today in New York at a presentation by
the world’s largest brokerage, a joint venture between Morgan
Stanley and Citigroup Inc. “What we think is powering this
growth is simply good, old fashioned profit growth. Profits have
leaped ahead, back to almost where they were, but the stock
market has not done that yet.”  Global equities are poised to reach 30 percent profit
growth this year or better and then taper off, Reinhard said.
“If markets could just move with profit growth, most people
would find that to be a pretty good experience.”  In eight of the last 10 times that the U.S. has pulled out
of a recession, there has been a bull market lasting at least
two years, according to Reinhard, who cited the two exceptions
as the period during the Cuban Missile Crisis and the double-dip
recession in the early 1980s.  “If we can avoid a geo-political provocation akin to the
Cuban Missile Crisis, the odds go up,” he said. “A few months
ago, people were worried about [a double-dip recession], but we
have clearly veered off that path, too.”  Asia, Eastern Europe  The engines driving profit growth are the emerging market
regions of China, South Asia, East Asia and Eastern Europe,
which will account for about 93 percent of households that have
middle class income worldwide, according to Morgan Stanley Smith
Barney research. Emerging markets’ middle class makes up 56
percent of all households worldwide, the research said.  “This is going to have powerful implications because as
people become a little bit wealthier they demand different
things,” Reinhard said. “Their approach to food, their
approach to fashion, their approach to travel. As people have a
little bit of money, they’re curious. They want to see how other
people live. Tourism is only going to get bigger.”  The firm is upbeat on the  stoc k market because no
“assassins,” or dangers to the market, are present, Reinhard
said. Inflation at around 1 percent is not a concern right now,
“irrational exuberance” is no longer in the stock market, and
a looming recession is not ready to cut into profits, he said.  “Bull markets don’t die of old age, they die when they’re
assassinated,” Reinhard said. “We should have a very good year
ahead for equities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Lachapelle  in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  