-- GM Profit Tops Toyota, Trails Ford as World Sales Seek Record
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2010-11-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/gm-profit-tops-toyota-trails-ford-as-world-auto-sales-rise-toward-record.html
Ford Motor Co.  widened its lead as
the world’s top-earning automaker in the third quarter, and
 General Motors Co.  overtook  Toyota Motor Corp.  amid record
global sales for the industry.  Ford  has earned $6.37 billion in the nine months ended
Sept. 30, already more than doubling last year’s profit of $2.72
billion.  Honda Motor Co. ’s $5.34 billion in profit is the
second-highest this year. Bloomberg used net income in U.S.
dollars for comparisons.  The industry is benefiting from global sales that may
surpass 70 million vehicles this year, according to estimates by
IHS Automotive and J.D. Power & Associates. Automakers
restructured during the global recession by cutting brands,
closing factories and firing workers, positioning themselves for
higher profit as demand returned.  “They’re improving their top line and reducing costs, and
that flows to the bottom line,” said  Alan Baum , principal of
Baum & Associates, an industry consultant in West Bloomfield,
Michigan.  GM reported third-quarter net income of $2.16 billion
yesterday, bringing the Detroit-based automaker’s earnings this
year to $4.77 billion. That tops the $4.46 billion  profit  by
Toyota City, Japan-based Toyota, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Toyota and  Honda , Japan’s two largest carmakers, forecast
weaker earnings in the second half of their April-to-March
fiscal year as the  yen’s  strength against the dollar reduces the
value of overseas earnings.  Volkswagen Profit  Volkswagen AG , based in Wolfsburg, Germany, was the third
most-profitable with net income of $4.9 billion.  Daimler AG, the world’s second-largest maker of luxury
vehicles, earned $4.49 billion on demand for the E- and S-class
sedans in China and the U.S.  Toyota came in at sixth place after  recalling  more than 10
million vehicles globally in the past year amid reports of
sudden, unintended acceleration.  The recalls, including more than 5.4 million in the U.S.
this year, have put Toyota on pace to fall behind both GM and
Ford in sales in the world’s second-largest auto market. Toyota
lost 1.5 percentage points of market share through October,
according to Autodata Corp. in Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey.  “Toyota has been a cash cow over decades,”  Dennis Virag ,
president of Automotive Consulting Group in Ann Arbor, Michigan,
said Nov. 9 in a telephone interview. “They are now
experiencing some of the issues that General Motors was
experiencing. They grew too fast, have too many products, and
they have overcapacity.”  Record Forecast  Light-vehicle sales may rise to 71.1 million vehicles,
according to J.D. Power in Troy, Michigan. The previous record
was 70.3 million units in 2007, J.D. Power said.  “I’m a believer in the auto cycle,” said  Alan Tarver , a
fund manager and senior equity analyst at San Antonio-based
Frost Investment Advisors, which holds shares in Toyota and
Volkswagen. You’ve been through “the bottom, and you’re coming
out of it. Sales units are stronger, and everyone’s nudging up
their production assumptions.”  Global light-vehicle sales will increase 6 percent to 73.8
million next year, Lexington, Massachusetts-based IHS Automotive
said in September. The forecast assumes 1.95 million additional
deliveries in China and South Asia and a 1.5 million increase in
North American sales.  “Our expectation is that Europe will slowly rebound and
North America will have some incremental increase in volume, but
it’s still a China and India story,”  Michael Robinet , an IHS
Automotive analyst, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Ford Turnaround  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  turned Ford around
after losses of $30 billion in 2006 through 2008, allowing the
automaker to pay down $10.8 billion in obligations this year and
reduce its auto unit’s debt to $22.8 billion.  Ford’s new Fiesta subcompact and Super Duty pickups are
selling for higher prices and helped boost the Dearborn,
Michigan-based company’s U.S. market share by 1.5 percentage
points through October, according to Autodata.  Mulally, 65, has said Ford will deliver “solid profits”
this year and that 2011 results will be even better. Ford may
have net income of $8.55 billion in 2011, the average estimate
of nine  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg.  While GM will have positive earnings before interest and
taxes in the fourth quarter, they will be “significantly
lower” than the run rate in the first three quarters of the
year, Chief Executive Officer  Dan Akerson  said yesterday on a
conference call.  GM IPO  GM, seeking to raise as much as $10.6 billion in an initial
public offering next week, has the “best of both worlds” in
its position in North America and developing markets, said Chief
Financial Officer  Chris Liddell . GM has the top share in North
America and top consolidated share in Brazil, Russia, India and
China, Liddell said in a presentation to potential investors.  The company’s European operations continue to drag on
profitability, losing $1.2 billion before interest and taxes so
far this year.  GM’s IPO, scheduled for Nov. 17, seeks to reduce the U.S.
Treasury Department’s ownership to 43 percent from 61 percent.
The department bought the stake as part of the company’s
bankruptcy in 2009.  Volkswagen’s earnings before interest and taxes and its
revenue “will continue to develop positively” as customers in
China, its largest market, buy Santana and Lavida sedans, the
company said Oct. 27. Daimler raised its 2010 profit forecast to
more than 7 billion euros ($9.62 billion) on Oct. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 