-- GMR's Profit Surges 33% on New Dehli Airport Terminal, Power-Plant Barge
-- B y   S u b r a m a n i a m   S h a r m a
-- 2010-11-10T04:53:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/gmr-profit-rises-33-on-start-of-new-delhi-airport-terminal-power-plant.html
GMR Infrastructure Ltd. , controlled
by Indian billionaire G.M. Rao, said second-quarter profit rose
33 percent after flights started operating from a new airport
terminal and a barge-mounted power plant began generation.  Net income, including that of units, increased to 711.2
million rupees ($16 million) in the three months ended Sept. 30
from 536.1 million rupees a year earlier, Bangalore-based GMR
told the Bombay Stock Exchange today. Sales gained 2.3 percent
to 12.22 billion rupees.  The Indian builder of airports, roads and utilities started
operating flights from its new terminal in India’s capital New
Delhi in July. It also started generating power at its barge-
mounted plant in August after the facility was relocated from
the west coast of the country to the east.  “Traffic at all our three operating airports was higher
than originally envisaged,” Rao, chairman of the GMR group,
said in a statement. “And the forecast for the rest of the year
is also optimistic.”  Shares  of GMR Infrastructure rose 0.7 percent to 54.25
rupees at 9:51 a.m. in Mumbai. They have declined 19 percent
this year, compared with the 20 percent gain in the benchmark
Sensitive Index of the Bombay Stock Exchange.  Airport Contract  GMR operates three airports through ventures, including in
New Delhi, the southern Indian city of Hyderabad and in Istanbul,
Turkey. It won a contract in June to modernize and expand the
airport in Male, Maldives.  The company operates three power-generation plants with a
total capacity of 808 megawatts and has 11 projects in various
stages of development totaling 8,448 megawatts.  It relocated a barge-mounted 220 megawatts power plant to
Kakinada on India’s east coast and started generation in August,
the company said in a statement today. The barge was earlier
located in Mangalore, on the west coast, according to the
company’s  website .  GMR operates six highway projects spanning 421 kilometers
(262 miles) and is developing another three projects with a
total length of 310 kilometers, it said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Subramaniam Sharma  in New Delhi at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  