-- Goldman's Jones, Who Founded Quantitative Fund, Is Leaving After 24 Years
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2010-11-10T20:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/goldman-s-jones-who-founded-quantitative-fund-is-leaving-after-24-years.html
Robert C. Jones , who helped found
and lead  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ’s quantitative equity fund
management unit, is leaving after 24 years at the company,
according to an internal memo sent to employees today.  Jones, 54, will leave Goldman Sachs at the end of this
year, about a year after becoming an advisory director focused
on special research projects, the memo said. The contents of the
memo were confirmed by  Andrea Raphael , a spokeswoman for the New
York-based bank.  Jones is the latest in a series of so-called quant
managers, who use mathematical models to trade securities, to
leave Goldman Sachs following losses at two funds in 2007.
 Robert Litterman , who was chairman of the quantitative hedge-
fund group, left in January after 24 years at the firm.  Mark Carhart  and  Raymond Iwanowski , who were co-heads of the
quantitative investment group and the Global Alpha hedge fund,
quit in March 2009.  At the end of last year Goldman Sachs closed its Global
Equity Opportunities Fund, a quant hedge fund that required a $3
billion cash infusion in 2007, after it dwindled to $200 million
in assets from $7.5 billion, people familiar with the situation
said in January. It had been managed by Jones after Carhart and
Iwanowski left.  Katinka Domotorffy  succeeded Carhart and Iwanowski as head
of the quatitative investment group and was assisted by Jones,
 Kent Daniel  and  Bill Fallon . Domotorffy remains chief investment
officer and head of quantitative investment strategies and
Fallon remains co-chief investment officer of the team’s alpha
strategies and head of research, according to today’s memo.  Domotorffy also works alongside  Don Mulvihill , co-chief
investment officer of the customized beta strategies team within
quantitative investment strategies.  Hired in 1987  Jones was hired in 1987 into the company’s investment-
research department and became the founding head of Goldman
Sachs Asset Management’s global quantitative equity group in
1989, according to the memo. He stopped actively managing
portfolios in 2007, although he remained co-chief investment
officer of the so-called QIS equity business until the end of
2009.  The Wall Street Journal reported on Jones’s retirement
earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 