-- Goldman Sachs's Alexandre Harfouche Departs From European Equities Post
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2010-11-10T22:38:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/goldman-sachs-s-alexandre-harfouche-departs-from-european-equities-post.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , the top-
ranked manager of European stock sales this year, dismissed
 Alexandre Harfouche , the co-head of European equity syndicate,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Harfouche didn’t follow compliance rules at New York-based
Goldman Sachs, according to the person, who declined to be
identified because the matter is considered private. The
violations involved a failure to make certain disclosures and
didn’t break securities laws or harm clients, said the person.  “Mr. Harfouche no longer works for the firm,” New York-
based Goldman Sachs said in a statement, without giving a
reason.  Fiona Laffan , a spokeswoman in London, said she couldn’t
comment.  Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  is trying to repair
damage to the firm’s reputation inflicted by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission’s April fraud lawsuit, which accused
Goldman Sachs of misleading investors on a 2007 mortgage-linked
security. That was settled for $550 million in July. The firm
has also paid fines to U.K. and U.S. regulators for failing to
notify them of the SEC probe.  “They’re going to be very careful to make sure all of
their internal policies and controls are being applied,” said
 Annemarie McAvoy , an adjunct professor at Fordham University
School of Law who has worked as an in-house lawyer at Morgan
Stanley and Citigroup Inc. “Given what they just went through,
they’re not going to take chances.”  Compliance Rules  Financial institutions create compliance rules to help them
meet regulatory requirements even when the regulations don’t
spell out exactly what the firm has to do, according to McAvoy.
For senior employees like Harfouche, monitoring junior staff and
notifying superiors about new information or problems can be
among the requirements, she said.  “The internal policies and procedures cover just about
everything these financial firms do,” she said. “So if a step
wasn’t followed in whatever process was going on, or maybe they
were skipping a step -- there are all kinds of scenarios.”
McAvoy said.  Harfouche, promoted to managing director last year along
with his co-head  Daniel G. Martin , was responsible for advising
corporate clients on large sales of securities known as block
trades. Based in London, Harfouche has been listed as inactive
on the  Financial Services Authority’s Register  since the end of
last month.  FSA spokesman Chris Hamilton declined to comment on
Harfouche’s departure. Harfouche couldn’t be reached through
Goldman Sachs and isn’t listed in the London directory.  Goldman Sachs is the top-ranked adviser on share sales in
Europe, the Middle East and Africa this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The New York-based firm led  Renault SA ’s
sale of its 3 billion-euro ($4.1 billion) stake in Volvo last
month, the data show.  The Financial Times reported on Harfouche’s departure late
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at   zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 