-- Goldman Sachs Said to Pull $120 Million From Falcone Hedge Fund
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2010-11-10T19:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/goldman-said-to-pull-120-million-from-falcone-s-hedge-fund-as-returns-lag.html
  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . plans to
pull all of its $120 million from Philip Falcone’s main hedge
fund after returns lagged behind peers and Falcone disclosed he
borrowed $113 million from a smaller fund that had suspended
redemptions, said three people briefed on the matter.  Falcone, 48, took the loan from the Harbinger Capital
Partners Special Situations Fund in October 2009 to pay personal
taxes, Bloomberg Markets Magazine reported in September. At the 
time, investors were barred from exiting the fund because it had 
assets tied up in the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings 
Inc. New York-based Harbinger Capital Partners disclosed the loan
in the fund’s March 12 financial statements.  The firm’s main Harbinger Capital Partners Fund tumbled 15
percent through Oct. 15, according to investors. As of
September, about 90 percent of the fund’s $3.4 billion in net
assets were tied up in wireless-telecommunications investments,
angering some clients who said the portfolio is too concentrated
and too skewed toward illiquid investments.  “We are in an environment with scarce capital inflows so
if there is an additional risk factor from anywhere, including a
large client redeeming, allocators won’t take the risk of
ignoring it -- they at least have to look into it,” said Howard Eisen, co-founder of New York-based FletcherBennett Group LLC, a
consultant to hedge funds.  Andrea Raphael, a spokeswoman for New York-based Goldman,
and Eliot Hoff, a spokesman for Harbinger, declined to comment.  $1 Billion Investment  Investors in Harbinger’s core fund are limited to taking
out 25 percent of their investments per quarter, so that a full
withdrawal is spread out over a year. Goldman will get back $30
million in January, and receive its final $30 million payment in
January 2012.  At the end of 2008, Goldman had $1 billion invested in two
Harbinger funds, according to the people, who asked not to be
identified because the funds are private.  Another investor in the core fund, the New York State
Common Retirement Fund, asked to redeem $41 million.  Dennis Tompkins , a spokesman for the state pension system, declined to
comment.  Harbinger is winding down the Special Situations fund,
which had about $2 billion in assets as of September. Following
the fund’s suspension, clients representing 80 percent of assets
opted to redeem their investments earlier this year, and they
will get money back as the fund’s positions are sold. Remaining
clients will put their money into other Harbinger funds.  Harbinger’s Credit Distressed Blue Line Fund, started in
April 2009, has returned 12 percent this year, according to an
investor. The fund has pulled in $500 million in assets this
year, the person said. Distressed funds have jumped 8.7 percent,
on average, according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  