-- Citigroup, Goldman, BA, Glaxo, BGC, in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-11-10T13:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/goldman-ba-glaxo-morgan-stanley-socgen-at-t-in-court-news.html
Citigroup Inc.  won dismissal of most
claims in a shareholder  lawsuit  alleging that the bank lied
about its exposure to collateralized debt obligations and other
toxic assets.  U.S. District Judge Sidney H. Stein dismissed an array of
claims in the 536-page complaint against Citigroup, finding in
most cases that the plaintiffs failed to allege facts showing
the  bank  and its officials knew they were misleading investors.  “The court finds that plaintiffs have stated a claim to
relief only with respect to alleged misstatements and omissions
occurring between February 2007 and April 2008 concerning
Citigroup’s collateralized debt obligation holdings,” Stein
said in yesterday’s ruling in federal court in Manhattan.  The plaintiffs, who sued in 2007, seek to represent all
investors who bought  Citigroup stock  from Jan. 1, 2004, to Jan.
15, 2009. They claim they lost money when the extent of
Citigroup’s losses on the investments became public.  Stein ruled that the  shareholders  failed to allege that the
bank and its officials knew they were acting fraudulently when
they made statements about a series of financial instruments
held by Citigroup, including residential-mortgage-backed
securities,  subprime mortgages , structured investment vehicles,
collateralized loan obligations and auction-rate securities.  “We are pleased the court has dismissed the great majority
of plaintiffs’ claims and substantially reduced the class period
at stake,” Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a Citigroup spokeswoman,
said in an e-mailed statement. She said the bank has strong
defenses to the remaining claims related to CDOs.  Ira M. Press, a lawyer for the investors, said he is
pleased Stein declined to dismiss claims related to Citigroup’s
CDO disclosures. The CDO claims form “the lion’s share” of the
allegations in the complaint, Press said.  Stein dismissed claims against seven of 14 current and
former Citigroup  officials  named in the suit. The remaining
seven, including former Chief Executive Officer Charles Prince,
attended meetings in the summer of 2007 to discuss Citigroup’s
CDO exposure, according to the complaint.  “That defendants engaged in meetings concerning
Citigroup’s CDO risks is inconsistent with the company’s public
statements downplaying or concealing that risk,” Stein wrote in
the opinion.  The case is In Re Citigroup Inc. Securities Litigation, 07-
cv-09901, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Icahn Seeks to Stop Lions Gate Director Voting Shares  Carl Icahn, who has made a hostile bid for Lions Gate
Entertainment Corp., told a judge through his lawyer he will
seek to block board member Mark Rachesky from voting his shares
at the studio’s Dec. 14 annual meeting.  Icahn, the billionaire chairman of New York-based Icahn
Enterprises LP, will file the motion to suspend Rachesky’s
voting power in New York state Supreme Court Nov. 15, attorney
Joseph DiBenedetto told Justice James Yates yesterday.  Icahn, 74, who is attempting to buy the independent film
and TV studio for $7.50 a share, sued Vancouver-based Lions Gate
in both Canada and New York in July to reverse an equity-for-
debt swap that increased Rachesky’s stake to almost 29 percent.
Icahn argues that management conspired with large shareholders
to thwart his bid.  The Supreme Court of British Columbia on Nov. 1 dismissed
the Canadian suit by Icahn to undo the deal. Icahn has appealed.
An appeals judge on Nov. 5 denied his request for an expedited
hearing. Lions Gate told the New York judge yesterday the
Canadian ruling supports its motion to dismiss the New York case
and said there is no reasonable basis for a court order against
Rachesky.  “This court cannot rule in the Icahn Group’s favor without
holding that the British Columbia court got it wrong,” Lions
Gate attorney William Savitt wrote in a letter yesterday to
Yates. “This is precisely the situation that this court wished
to avoid when it noted at the September 17 conference that it
‘would drop this case like a hot potato’ in the event the
British Columbia court issued a clear ruling.”  The case is Icahn v. Lions Gate, 651076/2010, New York state
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Toyota Lawyers Agree to Share Throttle Source Code  Toyota Motor Corp.  agreed in court to turn over access to
technical data about its electronic throttle-control system that
is alleged to be the cause of some of the automaker’s sudden-
acceleration problems.  Lawyers for Toyota told a judge yesterday in federal court
in Santa Ana, California, that they will provide attorneys for
Toyota vehicle owners access to the “source codes” for the
system if the judge issues a confidentiality order covering the
company’s product and trade secrets. The source codes have been
at the center of disputes between the two sides during the
process of pre-trial evidence gathering.  “We have no problem in turning this over providing we have
the proper protections in place,” Toyota attorney Vincent
Galvin told U.S. District judge James V. Selna.  Galvin said the information already had been turned over
to the government before Congress held hearings over Toyota’s
problems earlier this year. He said it hadn’t been turned over
the plaintiffs yet because pre-trial discovery hadn’t reached
the stage in which Toyota was required to do so.  Mark Robinson, one of the lead plaintiffs’ lawyers, told
the judge the codes are vital in the case because they will
allow experts to analyze the throttle system and come up with
their own determination over whether flaws may have been a
factor in episodes of inadvertent acceleration.  “We’ve been like someone standing outside a house with a
camera taking pictures of the house and knowing what it looks
like without knowing what it’s made up of inside,” Robinson
told the judge. “We need to analyze this data and see how it
related or didn’t relate to the recalls.”  Toyota is facing about 400 lawsuits in which plaintiffs
claim they are due damages for injuries, death or loss of
vehicle value from sudden acceleration in several models of cars
made by Toyota.  The automaker is seeking dismissal of the suits at a
hearing scheduled for Nov. 19.  The cases are combined as In re Toyota Motor Corp.
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Goldman, Natixis Settle Credit Default Swaps Lawsuit  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and Natixis SA settled a London
lawsuit over terminated credit-default swaps that might have
been worth as much as $530 million after a delay in the trial
that was to begin yesterday.  “Goldman Sachs and Natixis are pleased they’ve reached a
commercial settlement,” Goldman’s lawyer, Anthony Grabiner,
said in court. The terms are confidential and Grabiner said
neither side would make any further public statements on the
agreement.  The U.S. bank’s London unit, Goldman Sachs International,
sued Natixis in July to stop the termination of three credit-
default swaps. Natixis, a unit of BPCE SA, France’s second-
largest lender by branches, said in July it would terminate the
swaps because Goldman didn’t comply with the contract.  The French investment bank countersued in September,
seeking a ruling that it ended the deal lawfully, as well as
breach of contract damages. Natixis said it was “ready, willing
and able” to pay Goldman $198.4 million on the “lawfully and
validly terminated” credit-default swaps.  Goldman, the most profitable firm in Wall Street history,
disputed Natixis’s calculation in court papers.  The case is Goldman Sachs International v. Natixis, 10-880,
High Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division (London).  For more, click here.  Air France, BA, Carriers Get $1.1 Billion EU Cartel Fines  Air France-KLM Group ,  British Airways Plc  and  SAS Group AB 
were among 11 carriers fined a total of 799.4 million euros
($1.1 billion) by European Union regulators for fixing cargo
fees.  Air France and its units got the biggest fine of 339.6
million euros. British Airways was fined 104 million euros and
SAS Group AB got a 70.2 million-euro penalty, the European
Commission said. Cargolux Airlines International SA, Europe’s
third-biggest air-freight carrier, was fined 79.9 million euros.  “It is deplorable that so many major airlines coordinated
their pricing to the detriment of European businesses and
European consumers,” EU Competition Commissioner Joaquin
Almunia said in an e-mailed statement.  The EU fines come three years after regulators sent
complaints to 26 airlines, following coordinated antitrust raids
across the world that led to jail terms for some executives,
fines and settlements. U.S. authorities have already fined 18
airlines at least $1.6 billion and filed criminal charges
against 14 executives for price-fixing.  Air France’s fine exceeds the company’s total provisions
for the case, spokeswoman Brigitte Barrand said. From 530
million euros set aside as a provision in 2008, Air France-KLM
had already paid out almost 330 million euros in fines and
class-action awards in the U.S., Canada and Australia, she said
in a telephone interview.  British Airways said in an e-mailed statement its fine was
“within the provision made by the company in its 2006/7 report
and accounts.”  SAS, owner of Scandinavia’s biggest airline, said that it
will appeal its fine.  “SAS believes that it has not been involved in a global
cartel and that therefore, the fines are disproportionate,” it
said in a statement to the Stockholm stock exchange.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG , Europe’s second-largest airline,
wasn’t fined because it was the first to inform on the cartel,
the EU’s antitrust agency said.  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  Massachusetts Sues Viel & Cie. Unit for Bid-Rigging  Massachusetts  Attorney General Martha Coakley sued a New
York-based broker for rigging bids of municipal-bond investment
contracts, allowing banks to profit at taxpayer expense.  Tradition (North America) Inc. , a unit of Paris-based
broker  Viel & Cie. , worked for the state between 2000 and 2004
and was supposed to get the highest interest rates from banks on
investments of municipal-bond proceeds, Coakley said yesterday
in a statement. Instead, Tradition ran sham auctions, allowing
favored bidders to win deals at below-market rates, she said.  “Tradition’s conduct here is very troubling,” Coakley
said. By fixing the bids, Tradition ensured that favored
providers would get business from the state while also short-
changing Massachusetts, the state said. The lawsuit parallels a
probe by federal investigators into how such investment
contracts were obtained by banks nationwide.  Massachusetts’s college-building authority and development
finance agency are among 160 state and local government bond
issuers that the U.S. Justice Department’s antitrust division
has said were victims of bid-rigging by 16 banks, according to
documents filed in a criminal case.  A former Tradition agent has pleaded guilty in the Justice
Department probe. The U.S. inquiry centers on guaranteed
investment contracts, known as GICs, which municipalities buy
with money raised by selling bonds. The investments let them
earn a return on the cash until the funds are needed for
schools, roads and other public works.  “Tradition has acted in accordance with the law,” said
Dan Webb, a lawyer for Tradition with Winston & Strawn LLP in
Chicago. “The charges against Tradition are unfounded and will
be contested vigorously.”  For more, click here.  Ex-Glaxo Lawyer Charged With Making False Statements  A former in-house attorney for  GlaxoSmithKline Plc  was
charged with obstruction and making false statements during a
U.S. investigation into unapproved uses of its antidepressant
drug Wellbutrin SR.  Lauren Stevens, of Durham, North Carolina, was accused
yesterday in an indictment of impeding an inquiry in 2002 and
2003 by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration into the marketing
of the drug for uses not approved by the FDA. Stevens was a vice
president and associate general counsel for London-based Glaxo.  Stevens signed letters to the FDA making false statements
and hid the extent of the company’s promotion of the drug for
unapproved uses, including weight loss, according to the
indictment. She withheld that the company paid a Vermont
physician to speak at 511 promotional events in 2001 and 2002 to
discuss off-label uses and also paid Michigan doctor to give 488
talks, prosecutors said.  “There is a difference between legal advocacy based on the
facts and distorting the facts to cover up the truth,” Carmen
Ortiz, U.S. attorney for Massachusetts, said yesterday in a
statement. “Federal agencies such as the FDA cannot protect the
public health if entities and individuals they regulate provide
false information.”  The indictment doesn’t identify the company or the drug by
name. Glaxo spokeswoman Mary Anne Rhyne confirmed in an e-mail
that Stevens worked in the legal department and is now retired,
and the drug was Wellbutrin SR.  “Lauren Stevens is an utterly decent and honorable
woman,” her lawyer, Brien T. O’Connor of  Ropes & Gray LLP , said
in an e-mailed statement. “She is not guilty of obstruction or
of making false statements. Everything she did in this case was
consistent with ethical lawyering and the advice provided her by
a nationally prominent law firm retained by her employer
specifically because of its experience in working with FDA.”  Stevens told the FDA she would collect materials about
Glaxo’s promotion of the drug, which was approved only for a
single use, “the treatment of a major depressive disorder in
patients age 18 or older,” according to the indictment.  The case is U.S. v. Stevens, 10-cr-694, U.S. District
Court, District of Maryland (Greenbelt).  For more, click here.  BGC Capital Markets Sues Tullett for Misuse of Data  BGC Capital Markets LP sued Tullett Prebon Americas Corp.
over claims it misused proprietary U.S. Treasury data that
earned it profits of “at least hundreds of millions of
dollars.”  BGC Capital, based in New York, and Tullett Americas
operate in the competitive interdealer broker industry. BGC
accuses Tullett and its affiliates of misappropriating price
data derived from the electronic brokering eSpeed system to
generate profits in the market for historically unregulated
financial instruments, such as swaps, according to the lawsuit.  More than $400 billion is traded daily on the eSpeed
system, which is operated by BGC affiliates, according to the
complaint filed yesterday in New York State Supreme Court in
Manhattan. Under contract, the U.S. Treasury data has been
provided to a Tullett Americas affiliate. That contract
prohibits the use of the real-time data by their brokers, who
unfairly use it to compete against BGC, according to the suit.  “Because defendant’s brokers compete directly with
plaintiff’s brokers, profits earned by defendant by brokering
based on misappropriated data were earned improperly and at
plaintiff’s expense,” BGC said in its complaint.  Stephanie Kuffner, an outside spokeswoman for Tullett,
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  The case is BGC Capital Markets LP v. Tullett Prebon
Americas Corp., 651954/2010, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  Morgan Stanley Sues Peak Ridge Fund Over $40.3 Million Loss  Morgan Stanley  sued a  Peak Ridge Capital Group LLC  fund for
$40.3 million in losses this year tied to natural gas futures
trades.  The lawsuit, filed Nov. 8 in the Manhattan federal court,
seeks damages as well as legal and other fees stemming from
Morgan Stanley’s role as the futures broker for Boston-based
Peak Ridge.  The Peak Ridge account lost $9.8 million in natural gas
trades on June 4, according to the lawsuit, after which Morgan
Stanley increased the amount of cash it required the firm to
post to back its trades, known as margin. The bank declared the
fund in default later in June after Peak Ridge failed to meet
its new margin requirements. During the next two weeks, Morgan
Stanley sold off the positions and “incurred substantial
losses,” the lawsuit said.  Peak Ridge was previously advised by Brian Hunter, the
former Amaranth Advisors LLC natural-gas trader who lost $6.6
billion in 2006. Hunter “does not work at Peak Ridge,” said
Shauna MacDonald, a spokeswoman for Hunter. She declined to
comment further on his employment at the company. Calls to
Michael McNally, Peak Ridge’s chief executive officer, and Laura
Small, a spokeswoman, weren’t returned.  Peak Ridge used Hunter to devise trading models and
strategies. The Peak Ridge Commodity Volatility Fund, for
example, seeks to profit from price differences in the natural-
gas market. The company also bought the assets of Solengo
Capital Advisors, a hedge-fund firm that Hunter tried to start
six months after Amaranth’s collapse in September 2006.  In 2006, Hunter had bet that the difference between the
price of natural gas for 2007 March and April contracts would
widen. Instead, the spread narrowed, creating losses for
Amaranth.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Ex-Societe Generale Employee Stole Code, Jury Told  A former  Societe Generale SA  trader stole computer code for
high-frequency trading from the company, a U.S. federal
prosecutor said in opening statements at the start of a trial in
New York.  “The defendant, Samarth Agrawal, stole valuable, closely
guarded trading code from his employer, Societe Generale,”
Assistant U.S. Attorney Thomas Brown told the jury.  Agrawal was charged in April with theft of trade secrets.
The government said he made copies of part of the code he had
access to and more code that he wasn’t supposed to have. He
faces as much as 10 years in prison if convicted.  U.S. District Judge Jed S. Rakoff is presiding over the
trial.  Agrawal was hired in 2007 in New York by the Paris-based
bank to be a quantitative analyst in the high-frequency trading
group, the government said.  The case is U.S. v. Agrawal, 10-cr-417, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Glaxo Failed to Warn About Paxil’s Risks, Lawyer Says  GlaxoSmithKline Plc, the U.K.’s largest drugmaker, failed
to properly warn consumers that its antidepressant drug Paxil
could cause birth defects, a lawyer for the family of an injured
teenager told jurors.  Glaxo officials had research from the 1980s showing Paxil
caused deaths among the offspring of animal test subjects and
didn’t provide clear warnings about those deaths, Kimberly
Baden, a lawyer for Anna Blyth and her family, told a
Philadelphia jury. Baden said the drug caused a narrowing of the
aorta leading from the heart of Anna, now 14 years old.  “We believe the evidence will show Paxil caused Anna’s
birth defects,” Baden said in opening statements in the trial.
“We believe the warnings and instructions put out in 1995
weren’t appropriate and reasonable.”  The Blyth family’s case is the first over Paxil’s birth-
defect risks to go to trial since the company agreed in July to
pay more than $1 billion to settle 800 cases alleging the
company failed to adequately warn consumers and their doctors
about the drug’s hazards. The Blyth case wasn’t part of the
settlement.  Glaxo officials contend Paxil played no role in Anna’s
heart defects. They were most likely caused by genetics or the
fact that her mother became pregnant late in life, Chilton
Varner, a lawyer for the drugmaker, told jurors in her opening
statement.  Sarah Alspach, a Glaxo spokeswoman, didn’t return a call
for comment on how many Paxil birth-defect cases remain
outstanding.  The case is Blyth v. GlaxoSmithKline, 07-3305, Court of
Common Pleas, Philadelphia County, Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  For more, click here.  Consumer Arbitration Case Divides U.S. Supreme Court  U.S. Supreme Court  justices, wrestling with an arbitration
case involving an  AT&T Inc.  unit, debated how much ability
companies should have to prevent customers from banding together
to press legal claims.  In an hour-long hearing in Washington yesterday, the
justices signaled that they are likely to divide in the case,
which stems from $30.22 in sales taxes charged to two California
consumers.  Business groups say states are undermining the cost savings
arbitration offers by requiring that customers be allowed to
press claims as a class. In the case before the justices, a
federal appeals court invalidated the class-action ban in AT&T
Mobility LLC’s customer contracts, saying the provision was
“unconscionable” under California law.  Several members of the court yesterday indicated they were
hesitant to second-guess California’s rules designed to protect
consumers from one-sided contracts. “Who are we to say that the
state is wrong about that?” Justice Elena Kagan asked.  Other justices suggested that California might be violating
a federal law that requires states to treat arbitration
agreements the same as any other contract. Chief Justice John
Roberts said the state was evaluating the fairness of
arbitration accords using “a different mode of analysis than
I’m familiar with under basic contract law.”  The case could affect tens of millions of arbitration
agreements in California alone, according to AT&T.  Amazon.com
Inc.,   Earthlink Inc. ,  DirecTV Inc.,   Comcast Corp. ,  Dell Inc.  and
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce all filed briefs supporting AT&T in
the case.  The case is AT&T Mobility v. Concepcion, 09-893, U.S.
Supreme Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  Money Manager Barry Ran Ponzi Scheme, Jury Is Told  A money manager from Brooklyn, New York, ran a 30-year
Ponzi scheme that defrauded hundreds of investors, a federal
prosecutor told jurors at the start of his securities-fraud
trial.  Philip Barry, 53, a resident of the Bay Ridge section of
Brooklyn, began accepting money in 1978 from investors,
guaranteeing fictional annual profits, according to prosecutors
in the office of U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch in Brooklyn.
Instead, he used new investors’ money to pay earlier ones,
prosecutors said.  “This is a case about a con man,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Jeffrey A. Goldberg told jurors in his opening statement. “The
Ponzi schemer simply takes money out of one investor’s pocket
and puts it into another investor’s pocket.”  Michael Weil, a lawyer for Barry, told jurors in his
opening statement, “‘Your house will always go up in value.’
Philip Barry bought into that same myth, that you can’t lose
money in real estate.”  Goldberg told the jury that Barry’s business “was a fake
but his victims were very real.” He said victims were scheduled
to testify.  In a separate action, the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission said Barry diverted some of the investor money to a
mail-order pornography business. On Sept. 7, Barry sued the SEC
for libel over the accusation. He has run Barry Publications for
30 years, selling “vinyl LP records, music cassette tapes,
compact discs and DVDs,” he said.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Barry, 09-cr-0833, the SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Barry, 09-cv-3860,
and Barry’s suit against the SEC is Barry v. United States
Securities and Exchange Commission, 10-cv-4071, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Court News  Singapore Seeks 12-Week Jail Term for U.K. Author  A Singapore prosecutor urged a judge to jail British author
Alan Shadrake for at least 12 weeks for disparaging the city-
state’s judiciary in a book.  Prosecutor Hema Subramaniam said at a sentencing hearing
yesterday that Shadrake was “insincere” in his “half-hearted
attempt at an apology” and deserved to be jailed for contempt
of court.  Shadrake, 76, challenged the impartiality of Singapore’s
judiciary in the book “Once a Jolly Hangman: Singapore’s
Justice in the Dock,” accusing courts of bowing to political
and economic pressures and dispensing justice unequally to the
rich and the poor.  Shadrake alleged “grave misconduct” by the city state’s
courts, High Court Judge Quentin Loh said in his Nov. 3 decision
to convict the author for contempt. The book contained “half-
truths and selective facts; sometimes even outright
falsehoods,” Loh said then.  The judge said he would give Shadrake “a final opportunity
to make amends” when he convicted the author. Loh yesterday
reserved his decision on a sentence until Nov. 16.  The writer, dressed in a beige linen suit, showed
“continued defiance” of the Singapore judiciary, Subramaniam
said. She cited the writer’s comments to media that he wouldn’t
apologize and would continue fighting for freedom and democracy.  Shadrake declined to comment after the hearing.  The case is Attorney-General v. Alan Shadrake OS720/2010 in
the Singapore High Court.  On The Docket  Oil-Industry Suit on U.S. Drilling Rules Set for Trial  A New Orleans judge will conduct a two-day bench trial next
year in an oil industry lawsuit claiming U.S. regulators
continue to stall deep-water drilling in the Gulf of Mexico.  U.S. District Judge Martin Feldman, after a closed-door
meeting yesterday with lawyers in three lawsuits challenging the
Obama administration’s offshore drilling policy, said he would
try two of the cases next year in New Orleans federal court.  “Trial will commence on Monday, July 25, 2011, at 9:00
a.m. without a jury,” Feldman said in an order handed down
yesterday in a suit by Ensco Offshore Co. against the
administration’s second drilling ban.  Feldman also said he would conduct a separate two-day bench
trial Oct. 11 on remaining claims in a separate industry lawsuit
against the first U.S. drilling ban, which President Barack
Obama imposed in May after the BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of
Mexico.  That lawsuit, by  Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC. , was
joined by the state of Louisiana and more than 200 regional
business and trade groups who claimed U.S. Interior Secretary
Kenneth Salazar improperly restricted exploration in waters
deeper than 500 feet. Feldman struck down the initial ban in
late June, calling it overly broad and punitive to the Gulf
Coast economy.  Interior Department spokeswoman Melissa Schwartz and Ken
Dennard, one of Hornbeck’s attorneys, declined in e-mails to
comment on the judge’s order. Ensco Vice President Sean O’Neill
didn’t respond to a call seeking comment.  The cases are Ensco Offshore Co. v. Salazar, 2:10-cv-1941,
and Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar, 2:10-cv-01663,
both in U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 