-- Gome Surges in Hong Kong on Agreement With Jailed Founder Huang
-- B y   W e n d y   L e u n g   a n d   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2010-11-11T09:02:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/gome-founder-agree-to-appoint-zou-huang-as-directors-expand-board-to-13.html
Gome Electrical Appliances Holdings
Ltd.  rose the most in more than a year in Hong Kong trading
after agreeing to appoint its jailed founder’s representatives
to the  board  to end a dispute over control of the retailer.  Gome , China’s second-biggest electronics retailer,  gained 
19 percent, the most since July 2009, to close at HK$3.24 on the
Hong Kong stock exchange. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  rose 0.8
percent.  Billionaire founder  Huang Guangyu , whose proposal to remove
Gome Chairman  Chen Xiao  was rejected by shareholders in
September, had threatened to cut ties between his 400 privately
owned stores and the listed company. Huang, who’s serving a
14-year prison sentence in Beijing, owns the Gome brand and
remains the Hong Kong-traded retailer’s largest  shareholder .  “It’s a relief for investors,” said  Winnie Fong , an
analyst at Taifook Securities Group in Hong Kong. “If Huang
takes the 400 stores back, that would create more competition
against the listed company.”  Zou Xiaochun , Huang’s corporate lawyer, will join  Gome’s
board  as an executive director and Huang Yanhong, Huang’s sister,
will join as a non-executive director, for three-year terms, the
retailer said in a Hong Kong stock exchange filing yesterday
evening. The board will expand to 13  directors  from 11, it said.
The agreement is subject to a shareholders’ vote.  Before today,  Gome  was down 3.2 percent this year, compared
with a 12 percent advance for the Hang Seng Index.  Dispute With Chen  “In the event that the founding shareholders obtain
appropriate board representation, they have no current intention
to terminate any of the existing intra-group agreements between
the listed and unlisted parts of the  Gome  group, and will
continue to comply with their terms,” Huang’s Shinning Crown
Holdings Ltd. said in an e-mailed press release dated yesterday.  Gome’s shareholders in September rejected Huang’s effort to
remove Chen and to appoint Zou, 40, and Huang’s sister, 34, to
the board. In August, Huang said he would end the private
company’s agreements with Gome if shareholders didn’t back him.  “The settlement will continue to help push up share prices
in the short term,” Fong said. “Also, investors expect pretty
good third-quarter  earnings  will be out soon.”  Huang wants  Gome  to open stores at a quicker pace and
acquire brands, Zou said Sept. 11.  Suning Appliance Co. , China’s
largest home-appliance retailer, had 1,075 stores as of June 30,
compared with 740 for Gome.  “Pursuant to the terms of the memorandum of understanding,
both parties have committed to cooperate in all respects to
implement actions and initiatives to build a stronger and more
profitable company,” Gome said in its statement.  Huang, also known as Wong Kwong Yu, and wife  Lisa Du Juan 
own about 32.5 percent of Gome’s  shares , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Wendy Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 wleung12@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Fellman  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  