-- Google Being Investigated by FCC for Wireless Data Collection
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2010-11-10T23:26:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/google-is-said-to-be-subject-of-fcc-probe-into-collection-of-wireless-data.html
Google Inc. ’s collection of wireless
data using cars taking photographs for the company’s Street View
product is being investigated by the U.S. Federal Communications
Commission, the agency said today.  “Last month, Google disclosed that its Street View cars
collected passwords, e-mails and other personal information
wirelessly from unsuspecting people,” said Michele Ellison,
chief of the FCC’s enforcement bureau, in an e-mailed message.
“The Enforcement Bureau is looking into whether these actions
violate the Communications Act.”  The  Federal Trade Commission  on Oct. 27 ended its
investigation of Google’s collection of data from unsecured
wireless networks after the Mountain View, California-based
company said it will improve privacy safeguards.  Google, owner of the world’s most popular search engine,
uses cars to photograph streets and houses to update Street
View, which displays photos of neighborhoods. The company said
the vehicles also collected data from wireless Wi-Fi networks,
prompting an outcry by privacy advocates and lawmakers and
spurring lawsuits and government investigations in Europe and
the United States.  Google apologized, calling the data collection a mistake,
and said it wouldn’t use the information in any products.  The company “will continue to work with the authorities to
determine the best way forward,” Mistique Cano, the company’s
Washington-based spokeswoman, said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Questions Raised  Lawmakers of both parties today asked the trade commission
to explain why it ended its investigation. The decision “raises
a number of questions,” the House Oversight and Government
Reform Committee’s chairman, Representative  Edolphus Towns , and
Representative  Darrell Issa , the panel’s top Republican, said in
a letter to FTC Chairman  Jon Leibowitz .  “The FTC will be pleased to accommodate Representative
Towns and Representative Issa,” said Claudia Bourne Farrell, an
agency spokeswoman, in a telephone message.  Yesterday, the National Legal and Policy Center, a group
that describes itself as an ethics watchdog, in a letter asked
Towns, of New York, and  Issa , of California, to probe the trade
commission’s decision.  Google, dropped $1.94 to $622.88 at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading.  The FCC investigation was reported earlier today by Dow
Jones Newswires.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net . 