-- Great Portland Reports First-Half Profit as West End Properties Gain Value
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2010-11-10T07:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/great-portland-reports-first-half-profit-as-west-end-properties-gain-value.html
Great Portland Estates Plc , this
year’s biggest stock gainer among U.K. real estate investment
trusts, reported a profit for the first half after its buildings
appreciated by 105.3 million pounds ($168 million).  Net income  was 115.8 million pounds in the six months ended
Sept. 30 compared with a loss of 30 million pounds a year
earlier, the London-based company said in a statement today.
Profit, excluding changes in asset values, rose 13 percent to 15
million pounds, or 4.8 pence a share.  The  weak pound  revived demand from overseas buyers for
offices and stores in the West End district of central London,
where 83 percent of Great Portland’s properties are located.
Coming after a two-year price slide, increased investment demand
drove values higher during the past 18 months. There are now
signs that the gains are moderating, the company said.  “More sedate conditions will persist into 2011,” Chief
Executive Officer  Toby Courtauld  said in the statement, adding
that the “uncertain” economic outlook will weigh on investor
sentiment in the short term.  Great Portland said its properties appreciated by 2.6
percent in July through September, slower than the 4.6 percent
gain in the preceding three months.  Net asset value rose 11 percent to 314 pence a share after
an adjustment for financial derivatives. Property writedowns
erased 33.5 million pounds from last year’s earnings in Great
Portland’s fiscal first half.  Net income from rents and service charges was little
changed at 21.9 million pounds as a result of disposals.  The company increased its first-half dividend to 3.1 pence
a share from 3 pence a year earlier.  Great Portland  has advanced 21 percent in London trading
this year, exceeding the 2.2 percent average gain of the 16
members of the  FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment Trust
Index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Packard  in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 