-- Groupon at $3 Billion Soars Like Silicon Valley, From Chicago
-- B y   A r i   L e v y ,   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 2010-11-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/groupon-at-3-billion-soars-like-silicon-valley-from-chicago.html
Groupon Inc., a coupon site with 20
million users, has neared a $3 billion value in less than three
years without the Silicon Valley pedigree startups deem vital.  Since starting the company in Chicago in 2008, Groupon
Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Mason , 30, has built a workforce
of 2,600 employees, four-fifths of them in sales. That contrasts
with the biggest Internet startups, including Facebook Inc.,
Twitter Inc. and Zynga Game Network Inc., which are brimming
with programmers and based in the San Francisco Bay Area, near
the top technology companies and richest venture capital firms.  Mason’s unconventional approach has paid off. Groupon’s
daily deals, distributed in 29 countries, are likely to help the
company generate $500 million in sales this year, reaching that
milestone faster than Web pioneers  Google Inc.  and  Amazon.com
Inc.  The company now is seeking funding that may value it at $3
billion, people familiar with the matter say.  “He’s obviously a savvy entrepreneur and operator, and he
found a clever business model that he’s been able to scale,”
said Anand Sanwal, co-founder of  CB Insights , a New York-based
research firm that tracks private companies. “It’s not as
technology-intensive as a Facebook. It’s pound the pavement, get
salespeople out there and get merchants involved.”  Unlike many new companies that dot San Francisco and its
environs, Groupon’s success stems less from a breakthrough
technology -- say, algorithms that improve Web search -- than
from a straightforward use of e-mail, a communication tool
that’s falling out of favor as Web surfers use social networks.  Sales and Engineering  “It probably couldn’t have been born in Silicon Valley,
because I think most of the VCs and technologists there would
have tried to tackle the problems with a pure technology
solution,” Groupon President  Rob Solomon  said in an interview.  Groupon  sends a daily e-mail to registered users in a given
market, offering steep discounts on products and services,
ranging from cupcakes to yoga classes, dinner cruises to dental
exams. Groupon keeps a 50 percent cut of every deal sold, while
the company benefits from a rise in new customers. Deals, known
as groupons, activate when a certain number is sold, encouraging
users to recommend offers to friends.  Internet photo-sharing service  Shutterfly Inc.  ran a
national Groupon campaign in September, offering users a $30
photo book for $10. Between 100,000 and 200,000 people bought
the coupons, said Shutterfly CEO  Jeffrey Housenbold .  ‘Good Economics’  His Redwood City, California-based company lost money on
each book purchased. Yet, luring that many customers through
traditional marketing would have cost more, Housenbold said.  “It’s good economics for me, and it might get better if
they add other things in their cart or they come back and make a
holiday order,” Housenbold said. “I get the lifetime value of
that customer.”  An April investment by a group led by Mail.ru Group Ltd.
gave Groupon a valuation of about $1.3 billion. Owners say the
company is worth more now because it’s growing at a faster pace
than other new companies.  “To be as big as we are and as profitable as we are is not
typical for tech startups,” said  Eric Lefkofsky , a partner at
 LightBank , a Chicago-based early investor in Groupon. “It
speaks in large part to the power of our model and the fact that
we’ve executed well in expanding our model.” Lefkofsky is also
on Groupon’s board.  More Markets  Sales may exceed $500 million this year, two people
familiar with the matter say. Since May, Groupon has doubled the
number of markets it serves to more than 300.  The company could use additional funding to fuel a hiring
boom. Groupon needs on-the-ground salespeople to enlist the
local businesses, including nail salons, restaurants and coffee
shops, that provide its more than 400 daily deals. It’s hiring
about 150 people a month and about 80 percent of the total work
in sales roles, Solomon says.  Groupon has almost 1,000 more employees than social-
networking site Facebook, which started four years earlier. Its
workforce is more than twice the size of Zynga’s and eight times
bigger than Twitter’s.  Lookalikes such as  LivingSocial  aim to capitalize on the
growing popularity of daily deals and could become a threat to
Groupon. The site has also become a victim of its own success,
with some small companies becoming overwhelmed by the sudden
surge in new business spawned by Groupon offers.  Dude in a Tutu  Groupon has introduced consulting programs and seminars to
help merchants cope. It’s also releasing a mobile-phone
application to help retailers track the thousands of customers
who purchase deals, Vice President Mihir Shah said in an
interview in October.  Lefkofsky says Groupon can fend off rivals by offering more
deals and tailoring them more effectively to audiences.  “People all over the world have launched sites that are
effectively Groupon clones,” he said. “They have been unable
to get any meaningful traction because it’s not just about
offering a deal; it’s about offering great deals from the best
merchants that are the most relevant.”  Hiring is easier in Chicago than it would be in Silicon
Valley, where competition for talented staff is fierce, Solomon
says.  “Groupon is the most interesting company in Chicago from a
technology standpoint,” he said. In  Silicon Valley , “there’s a
pretty competitive dynamic where the best have a choice of where
to go.”  Mason, an entrepreneur and software developer with a degree
in music from  Northwestern University , takes steps to keep
Groupon unusual. Earlier this year, he hired a man to dress as a
ballerina and walk around the office without talking to anyone.  “It was some kind of social experiment,” Solomon said.
“People were shocked at first, and then it was part of the
scenery that makes Groupon Groupon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ari Levy  in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
 Douglas MacMillan  in San Francisco at 
 Dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  