-- Grupo Mexico Expects Ferrosur, Ferromex Merger Approval Soon, CFO Says
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2010-11-10T22:41:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/grupo-mexico-expects-ferrosur-ferromex-merger-approval-soon-cfo-says.html
Grupo Mexico SAB , the country’s
largest miner and railway operator, is “very close” to
receiving authorization to merge its rail units, said  Daniel Muniz , the company’s chief financial officer.  The company plans to sell shares in its transportation
unit, which consists of Ferrocarril Mexicano SA, known as
Ferromex, and Ferrosur SA, sometime after the merger receives
antitrust approval, Muniz said today at the Bloomberg Mexico
Economic Summit in Mexico City.  “First, what we’re looking at is that they authorize us,
and I think we’re very close, to merge Ferromex and Ferrosur,”
Muniz said. “There’s a lot of interest from Mexican and foreign
investors to invest in a transportation company like ours.”  Grupo Mexico purchased Ferrosur, a rail company owned by
billionaire  Carlos Slim , in December 2005 without the permission
of the antitrust commission. A federal court upheld the
acquisition and the company is now waiting for authorization to
combine the two companies.  Ten years ago, rail moved 8 percent of cargo and the rest
was transported by trucks. Now, rail in Mexico carries close to
20 percent of cargo, Muniz said. In the U.S. and Canada, rail
hauls about half of all cargo, he said.  “This gives you an idea of the potential there is for
Ferromex and Ferrosur to penetrate the market much more,” Muniz
said.  Mining Growth  Grupo Mexico plans to grow its mining operations
organically and is continually seeking growth opportunities, he
said. The company, which has $3 billion of cash, would consider
buying assets under the right conditions, Muniz said.  The world’s copper supply is outstripping demand, which is
an “encouraging” trend that supports prices, Muniz said.  Copper futures for delivery in December dropped 7.4 cents,
or 1.8 percent, to settle at $3.969 a pound at 1:23 p.m. on the
Comex in New York, the biggest loss since Oct. 27. The price
touched $4.0475 yesterday, the highest level since July 2, 2008.  Grupo Mexico plans to build electricity plants to supply
its own consumption, he said, without giving details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Manuel Rodriguez  in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  