-- Gujarat Yields Retreat From Nine-Year High as RBI Pumps Cash: India Credit
-- B y   A n i l   V a r m a
-- 2010-11-11T09:16:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/gujarat-yields-retreat-from-nine-year-high-as-rbi-pumps-cash-india-credit.html
Indian state debt yields are showing
signs of peaking after the central bank signaled it would freeze
borrowing costs in the world’s second-fastest growing major
economy.  Gujarat sold bonds due in 10 years at 8.42 percent on Nov.
9, down from a nine-year high of 8.51 percent at an Oct. 26
sale, Reserve Bank of India data show. That was the biggest
decline since May for the state, home to the world’s biggest oil
refinery. Yields for Punjab, India’s second-biggest producer of
food grains, fell four basis points to 8.44 percent.  Capping debt costs for Gujarat and Punjab will help fund
highways, ports and schools in an economy forecast by the
International Monetary Fund to expand 9.7 percent this year,
almost four times the pace predicted for the U.S. Central bank
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said last week  interest rates  may
remain unchanged after six increases this year, prompting Nomura
Holdings Inc. and Barclays Plc to say policy makers will hold
borrowing costs in check until at least April.  “Rates are peaking, and yields at this week’s state debt
auction support that outlook,”  Pradeep Madhav , managing
director at Securities Trading Corp. of India, a Mumbai-based
primary dealer partly owned by State Bank of India, said in an
interview yesterday. “The pressure on policy makers to increase
borrowing costs is going away as inflation eases.”  Raising Rates  Subbarao last raised the benchmark repurchase rate on Nov.
2 by 0.25 percentage point to 6.25 percent. Higher borrowing
costs slowed increases in the nation’s  consumer prices , the
fastest in Asia except Pakistan, to 9.8 percent from a record
16.2 percent in January, government data show.  States have issued $14.5 billion of debt since April, 20
percent of the amount the federal government borrowed.  Borrowing costs for the western state of  Gujarat , whose
economy grew 10.5 percent in the year ended March 31, climbed in
all but two of the seven debt auctions this fiscal year that
began in April. Reliance Industries Ltd., India’s biggest
company by market value, runs a 1.24 million barrel-a-day
refining operation at Jamnagar in the state.  The northern state of Punjab raised 37 billion rupees since
April by selling 10-year debt.  Five Indian states sold a combined 36.5 billion rupees
($824 million) of notes due in 2020 on Nov. 9. Along with
Gujarat and Punjab, the southern states of Karnataka, Kerala and
Puducherry issued debt at yields of 8.42 percent, 8.43 percent
and 8.41 percent. The states of Meghalaya and West Bengal sold a
combined 6 billion rupees of 10-year notes today, according to
the central bank.  Cash Crunch  State debt yields eased as Subbarao extended measures to
alleviate the nation’s worst cash crunch on record.  Overnight  borrowing rates  in the nation’s money market have
averaged 6.3 percent so far this quarter, up from 5.4 percent in
the previous three months, as record share sales by the nation’s
companies drained cash from the financial system. Indian firms
have raised 1.02 trillion rupees from equity offerings this
year, up 42 percent from the amount sold in 2009, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. State-owned  Coal India Ltd.  raised 152
billion rupees last month in the nation’s biggest initial share
sale.  Banks, the biggest buyers of government debt, have depended
on the central bank for daily funds since Sept. 9. They  borrowed 
nearly 1.2 trillion rupees every day this week, compared with an
average 629 billion rupees last week, Bloomberg data show.  The Reserve Bank said Nov. 9 it will hold additional daily
money-market auctions up to Dec. 16 to inject funds into banks.
It also allowed lenders to raise cash by temporarily lowering
bond holdings below a regulatory limit. Local banks are required
by law to invest at least 25 percent of deposits in government
debt or other low-risk securities.  “Even though a liquidity deficit is consistent with an
anti-inflation stance, an excessive deficit can be disruptive to
both financial markets and credit growth,” Subbarao, who has
been at the helm of the central bank since September 2008, said
in a statement on Nov. 9.  Deficit Plan  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  plans to cut the federal
government’s budget  deficit  to 5.5 percent of gross domestic
product this fiscal year from an estimated 6.9 percent in the
previous 12 months.  The 10-year federal bond yield climbed nine basis points
this week to 8.08 percent. The sovereign yield is the highest
among the major emerging economies except Brazil, where similar-
maturity notes pay 12.5 percent. Comparable bonds in China offer
3.9 percent and 2.64 percent in the U.S., Bloomberg data show.  India’s government bonds returned 4 percent this year, the
third-worst performance among 10 Asian local-currency debt
markets outside Japan, according to indexes compiled by HSBC
Holdings Plc.  “Yields are attractive at current levels on state as well
as central government debt,”  Navneet Munot , who oversees $8.5
billion as chief investment officer at Mumbai-based SBI Funds
Management Pvt., a unit of the nation’s biggest lender, said in
an interview yesterday. “But the pressure on liquidity may
still be holding investors back.”  Fixing Rates  The  cost  of fixing rates on money for three months surged
285 basis points this year to 6.8 percent in India’s interest-
rate swaps market, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
government sold 40 billion rupees of 91-day bills yesterday at
6.85 percent and auctioned 20 billion rupees of 182-day debt at
7.17 percent.  India’s rupee has appreciated 5.1 percent against the
dollar this year as higher debt yields have attracted inflows of
 $10 billion  into its debt markets during the period, Securities
& Exchange Board of India data show. That was more than the
combined inflows in the previous eight years. The currency rose
0.1 percent today to 44.27 per dollar as of 1:44 p.m. in Mumbai,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A slide in the cost of protecting the debt of government-
owned State Bank of India, which some investors perceive as a
proxy for the nation, signaled rising confidence in the ability
of the government to achieve its deficit target. The cost of
credit-default swaps on the lender has decreased 78 basis points
to 161 points from a one-year high reached in May, according to
data provider CMA.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  “A substantial amount of monetary tightening has already
been done through both policy rate increases as well as the
extended money-market crunch,”  Sonal Varma , a Mumbai-based
economist at Nomura, said in an interview yesterday. “Given the
monetary policy typically takes effect with a lag, the RBI is
likely to pause rate increases for now.”  The IMF  predicted  China would be the world’s fastest-
growing major economy this year, at 10.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anil Varma  in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  