-- Liberal Democrat Lawmaker Criticizes Coalition on Caps to Housing Welfare
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-11-10T12:56:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/liberal-democrat-lawmaker-criticizes-coalition-on-caps-to-housing-welfare.html
A Liberal Democrat member of the
U.K. coalition criticized planned welfare cuts, calling on the
government to reconsider policies that she said would unfairly
hurt the poor.  Jenny Willott , elected to  Parliament  in 1995 and an aide to
Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne , used a House of Commons  debate 
late yesterday to object to plans to reduce housing payments to
those who have been out of work for more than a year.  “If we really are trying to help people off benefits and
into work, this arbitrary limit makes no sense,” Willott said.
“It does not take into account the job market in a particular
area or the effort that a claimant may have made to find a job,
and it could have serious implications for child poverty, in
particular. I hope that the government can think through that
proposal again.”  The benefit reductions have already provoked criticism from
allies of Prime Minister  David Cameron , with Conservative Mayor
of  London Boris Johnson  questioning the plans. Willott’s remarks
add to dissent among the Liberal Democrats, the junior partner
in the coalition.  The Conservative-led coalition also plans to cap total
household benefits at the median take-home pay for working
households of about 500 pounds a week, starting in 2013. The
welfare bill is being slashed as the government attempts to
narrow its record budget deficit.  “The government has made some tough decisions, it’s
announced its proposals and it’s expecting to proceed with
them,” Cameron’s spokeswoman  Vickie Sheriff  said today. “One
expects government policy to be supported by government
ministers and members of the government.”  Under plans to be set out tomorrow the long-term unemployed
may be forced to do unpaid work. Work and Pensions Secretary
 Iain Duncan Smith  will announce that claimants needing work
experience may be put on four-week community placements of 30
hours a week. If they refuse, they risk having their benefits
stopped for at least three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 