-- Tiger Woods Seeks Title, Not Redemption, on Australian Masters Golf Return
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-11-10T06:14:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/tiger-woods-seeks-title-not-redemption-on-australian-masters-golf-return.html
Tiger Woods  doesn’t see this week’s
Australian Masters as an opportunity to put a year of personal
and professional pain behind him. He says it’s simply a chance
to end his 51-week winless streak.  “I’m just here to defend the title,” Woods told reporters
today at the Victoria Golf Club in Melbourne. “I’m here to play
a great golf course and play against a great field. That’s how
I’m looking at it.”  Woods’s two-shot win at the Masters 12 months ago, played
out before record crowds at nearby Kingston Heath, was his 83rd
career victory and he left Australia with the champion’s gold
jacket and world No. 1 ranking.  Less than two weeks later, Woods crashed into a fire
hydrant outside his Florida home. The single-car accident led to
an admission by the 14-time major champion that he repeatedly
cheated on his wife, causing the eventual end of his marriage to
 Elin Nordegren .  He lost sponsors including Accenture Plc,  AT&T Inc.  and
 Procter & Gamble Co. ’s Gillette razors, and has failed to win a
tournament this year after taking a break of almost five months.  Last week, his record five-year run atop the  Official World
Golf Ranking  ended when  Lee Westwood  took over as No. 1. The
Englishman widened the gap with a runner-up finish at the HSBC
Champions in Shanghai, where Woods tied for sixth.  The only way to reclaim the No. 1 ranking is by doing what
he did to reach the summit, Woods said.  Tournament Wins  “I have to win golf tournaments,” he said after taking
his first look at the 6,886-yard (6,297 meter), par-71 course in
Melbourne’s so-called Sandbelt. “That’s what’s happened in the
past and that’s what I’m going to have to do in the future if I
want to accomplish that again.”  His best finishes this year were at the Masters Tournament
and U.S. Open, where he tied for fourth place.  Whatever happens at the Victoria Golf Club, where he’s
among the early starters in tomorrow’s first round, Woods said
his game is headed in the right direction.  Woods, who has been working with coach Sean Foley since
August’s U.S. PGA Championship, said that he wasn’t sure he
wanted to change his swing, having already gone through two
overhauls with  Butch Harmon  and one with  Hank Haney .  “Every night I was like, ‘should I do this?’” Woods said.
“It’s a work in progress. Sometimes it takes longer than
others. Once I start feeling comfortable with what I’m doing --
I know I can still play this game -- it’s just a matter of being
consistent enough and on a daily basis.”  Close Look  Camilo Villegas , the world No. 30, said Woods needn’t have
worried so much after getting a firsthand look at his swing
three days ago at a charity tournament in Thailand.  “He’s going to keep improving day after day,” said
Villegas, whose $3 million in prize money this year is more than
double Woods’s on-course earnings. “He’s the No. 2 player in
the world right now, but he’s the best player in the world,
let’s put it that way. He’ll be fine.”  Woods is the bookmakers’ favorite to win the Australian
Masters, which also features seven-time U.S. PGA Tour winner
 Sergio Garcia  of Spain, 2006 U.S. Open champion  Geoff Ogilvy  and
fellow Australian  Robert Allenby , who’s ranked 21st.  “Things are shaping up,” said Woods. “When I feel like
I’m firing on all cylinders, I feel that I can beat most
people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  at the Victoria Golf Club at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  