-- IMF Urges Ukrainian Central Bank to Allow Currency to Trade More Freely
-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2010-11-10T11:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/imf-urges-ukrainian-central-bank-to-allow-currency-to-trade-more-freely.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
urged Ukraine’s central bank to allow the hryvnia to trade more
freely, First Deputy Governor  Serhiy Arbuzov  said.  “The IMF wants us to follow the market,” Arbuzov told
journalists today in the capital city of Kiev. He didn’t say if
the central bank is prepared to follow the recommendation.  Ukraine’s central bank controls the hryvnia’s exchange rate
by buying and selling foreign currency on the interbank market.
The currency lost 0.11 percent against the dollar in October
after declining 0.55 percent in the previous month.  The central bank sold $734.1 million on the interbank
market in October, compared with $686.9 million in the previous
month. The hryvnia has slid 0.02 percent versus the dollar this
month and traded at 7.95 per dollar at 12:31 p.m. in Kiev,
according to Bloomberg data.  Central bank Governor  Volodymyr Stelmakh  said on Sept. 8 he
sees the hryvnia “not weaker than 8 per dollar” by the end
of the year and that the central bank will continue acting to
avoid “sharp changes on the market.”  Added pressure was put on the hryvnia as Ukrainians bought
$3.22 billion from commercial banks in October, the central bank
said. They sold $1.344 billion to banks last month.  The Washington-based lender approved a $15.2 billion loan
to Ukraine in July to sustain economic growth after the economy
contracted 15.1 last year. An IMF mission is in Kiev to review
the implementation of the loan program as the country looks to
receive the next installment in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daryna Krasnolutska  in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net 
 Kateryna Choursina  in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  