-- ING Says It's Preparing U.S. Insurance Unit for Possible IPO
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2010-11-10T13:29:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/ing-posts-unexpected-drop-in-third-quarter-net-on-u-s-insurance-writedown.html
ING Groep NV , the largest Dutch
financial-services company, said it’s taking steps to prepare
its U.S. insurance business for an initial public offering and
reported a sixfold increase in banking profit.  ING  rose  as much as 4 percent in Amsterdam trading after
saying it plans to bring accounting and hedging practices for
variable annuities at its U.S. insurance unit “more in line
with U.S. peers,” while banking  earnings  surged as loan-loss
provisions fell.  ING agreed to split its insurance and banking units by the
end of 2013 to gain European Commission approval for a
government bailout, which included 10 billion euros ($13.8
billion) of state aid and the transfer of 21.6 billion euros of
U.S. mortgage assets. The company plans to separate the two
businesses by the end of the year, and is considering IPOs of
both its European and U.S. insurance units.  “They are taking substantial action in the next two months
to boost the reserves of the U.S. variable annuity business,
after which it will be much easier to embark on the IPO route or
to sell the variable annuity business,” said  Cor Kluis , an
Utrecht-based analyst at Rabo Securities. “This had to happen
and I think the market knew that. I am glad they are doing it
now.”  ING climbed 25.5 cents, or 3.2 percent, to 8.22 euros by 2
p.m. in Amsterdam. The stock has  gained  19 percent this year,
valuing the company at 31.5 billion euros. The  Stoxx Insurance
600 Index  advanced 4.5 percent in the period.  Final Writedown  Net income  fell to 371 million euros in the three months
through September, missing analysts’ estimates, as ING wrote
down goodwill at the U.S. insurance unit by 513 million euros to
help prepare the business for a stock sale. Changing the
accounting and hedging practices may lead to a further writedown
of about 1 billion euros before tax in the fourth quarter.  No further writedowns on the variable annuities business
are expected after the fourth quarter, Chief Executive Officer
 Jan Hommen  told reporters on a call today.  “The VA issue looks resolved,”  Thomas Nagtegaal , an
analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Amsterdam, wrote
today.  Underlying earnings, which exclude asset sales and special
items, beat analysts’ estimates. Profit before tax on that basis
rose to 1.53 billion euros from 801 million euros a year
earlier, compared with the 1.39 billion-euro estimate.  Europe, U.S.  The insurance IPOs are likely to take place in 2012, though
they could occur in the fourth quarter of 2011 if conditions are
favorable, said Hommen.  “While the option of one IPO remains open, we are going to
prepare ourselves for a base case of two IPOs for our insurance
businesses: one Europe-led IPO with solid cash flow combined
with strong growth positions in developing markets, and one
separate U.S.-focused IPO with a leading franchise in retirement
services,” Hommen said in a statement.  The Europe-led share sale will include the European and
Asian insurance operations and the regions’ investment
management activities, Hommen said. No decision has been taken
on the Latin-American business.  The insurance unit had pretax profit excluding asset sales
and special items of 18 million euros, down from 551 million
euros a year earlier. The company booked the goodwill writedown
as “the U.S. legacy business had a reserve inadequacy which
reduced the fair value of U.S. insurance in relation to
shareholders equity,” ING spokeswoman  Victorina de Boer  said by
phone.  Reducing Costs  ING aims to reduce  annual costs  in the U.S. insurance
operations by 100 million euros. “The aim is to create a strong
and profitable U.S. business, which over time can be IPOed when
earnings and market circumstances improve,” the company said.  “Progress at presenting the insurance business as capable
of being sold” is “key” to ING’s  shares , said  Christopher Hitchings , a London-based analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods in
a note dated Nov. 3.  ING was created by the 1991 merger of insurer Nationale
Nederlanden and NMB Postbank Group. European Union regulators
approved ING’s taxpayer-funded bailout in November 2009, after
the company agreed to sell its insurance and U.S. online banking
divisions and make additional payments to the state for the risk
transfer of U.S. mortgage assets.  Basel Impact  ING and the Netherlands have appealed the decision by the
European Commission, the EU’s antitrust regulator, on measures
taken against the company after it received the bailout. ING is
contesting the calculation of the amount of state aid it
received and the imposition of price restrictions. The appeal
will be heard at the earliest by the end of this year, ING’s
General Counsel Evert Vink said last month.  The banking division, which will keep the ING brand-name
after the split, reported pretax profit excluding divestments
and special items of 1.5 billion euros, up from 250 million
euros in the year earlier period, as loan provisions fell.  The bank’s core Tier 1 capital ratio, a key measure of the
ability to absorb losses, rose to 9 percent from 8.6 percent at
the end of June. ING said its bank is well-positioned for Basel
III requirements.  Based on current draft rules, the negative impact on the
core Tier 1 ratio would be 70 basis points, the lender said. The
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in September agreed on
rules that more than double capital requirements for banks. A
basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point.  ING is still evaluating the position of its Real Estate
Investment Management unit within the bank as it aims to reduce
property-related risk, Hommen said today. He expects to give an
update on the process by the end of this year.  KKR & Co. , Vornado Realty Trust and  Apollo Global
Management LLC  have shown interest in the unit, people with
knowledge of the situation said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maud van Gaal  in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  