-- Innkeepers Control of Bankruptcy Extended to Jan. 31
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2010-11-10T22:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/innkeepers-control-of-bankruptcy-reorganization-is-extended-to-jan-31.html
Innkeepers USA Trust  won permission
to keep exclusive control of its bankruptcy case until Jan. 31
amid disputes over how the real-estate investment trust should
reorganize.  Daniel Donovan , a lawyer for Innkeepers, told U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge  Shelley Chapman  in Manhattan today that the
company and creditors agreed to a 75-day extension of
exclusivity, less than the 120 days Innkeepers had sought. The
company also is considering offers to finance its plan through
adviser Moelis & Co., Donovan said.  “We’ve reached a resolution to the exclusivity motion,”
Donavan told the judge after more than two hours of talks
outside her courtroom that delayed today’s 10 a.m. hearing.  Innkeepers, based in Palm Beach, Florida, said in court
papers that it needed more time while it pursues offers and
holds talks with five candidates to be the lead, or “stalking-
horse,” bidder to provide the financing.  Midland Loan Services Inc., Innkeeper’s largest creditor,
said the company should have only until Dec. 15. Midland, which
seeks to file its own plan, said in court papers that an August
agreement with Five Mile Capital Partners LLC to buy Innkeepers
expired.  Five Mile has been renegotiating a financing offer in the
past two months, Midland said. Midland initially proposed to
finance a plan by selling Innkeepers’ new stock to Five Mile for
$236 million.  Lehman Affiliate  Chapman in September denied Innkeeper’s request to enter an
agreement with Lehman Ali Inc. and Apollo Investment Corp. to
support its reorganization. The plan would have given all of
Innkeepers’ equity to the affiliate of  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. , Midland said in objections.  Wells Fargo & Co. , which holds debt of Innkeepers property-
level units in bankruptcy, also had objected to giving the
company control beyond Dec. 14. The San Francisco-based bank
said it was working to find a sale or restructuring that
creditors would agree to.  Separately today, a lawsuit brought by LNR Partners LLC
over $835 million of Innkeepers’ debt was moved to Manhattan
district court from New York State Supreme Court.  Cres Investment, which was sued by LNR over whether it
needed to appoint LNR as special servicer to the debt, said in
court papers filed in Manhattan district court today that LNR
has alleged that Midland Loan Services Inc., as current special
servicer to Innkeepers debt, and its largest creditor in
bankruptcy, could cause harm to LNR.  Cres said it seeks to have the case moved again, to
Manhattan bankruptcy court. In connection with Apollo Investment
Corp.’s 2007 acquisition of Innkeepers, mortgage loans worth
$825 million were put into trusts. LNR Securities and CRES each
hold beneficial interests in one of the trusts, the C7 Trust.  Innkeepers hasn’t shown it has viable offers to finance a
reorganization of the whole company, and should consider
separating its properties to attract more bidders, said Ronen
Bojmel, managing director of Miller Buckfire & Co., which is
advising the property-level units.  “The debtor’s business is just a random collection of
assets,” Bojmel wrote in court papers. “There is no
‘Innkeepers’ brand.”  ‘Chilling Effect’  William Derrough , managing director of Moelis, disagreed
with a piecemeal sale, saying it would have a “chilling
effect” on attempts to get financing for a reorganization.
Innkeepers’ board on Oct. 26 approved a timeline to select a
stalking-horse bidder within four weeks and pick a winning offer
at auction within around 14 weeks, Moelis said.  “Moelis proposed an aggressive and detailed timeline with
the goal of selecting a stalking horse for plan sponsorship for
an enterprise-level restructuring,” Derrough said in court
papers.  Separately, Apollo agreed to a schedule on giving
information to creditors probing Innkeepers’ 2007 buyout.
Creditors had sought to force production of documents, saying in
court papers that their phone calls and requests for papers went
unanswered.  Fried Frank Harris Shriver & Jacobson LLP can be hired to
advise a committee making recommendations to the board about a
Chapter 11 plan, Chapman said. Midland had said the law firm
might not be objective because it represents Lehman Brothers and
Apollo in other matters.  The case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Tiffany Kary  in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 