-- Inter's Rafael Benitez Wants Liverpool Defender Daniel Agger: Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-11-10T10:35:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/inter-s-rafael-benitez-wants-liverpool-defender-daniel-agger-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from European newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Benitez’ Liverpool Raid?  Inter Milan manager  Rafael Benitez  may make an offer for
Liverpool player  Daniel Agger , the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Benitez, a former Liverpool manager, wants to sign the
Denmark player as a replacement for defender  Walter Samuel , who
has suffered ligament damage in his knee.  Wolfsburg Chase Santa Cruz  Wolfsburg may offer as much as 3 million pounds ($4.8
million) for Manchester City forward  Roque Santa Cruz , the  Sun 
reported. The Paraguayan, who cost City 14 million pounds, is
also wanted by Fulham, the newspaper said.  Chelsea Eye Brazilian  Chelsea is keeping an eye on Bayern Munich defender
Vinicius Borges Breno as the Brazilian recovers from a ligament
injury, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Chelsea scouts have “made inquiries” about the former
Brazil Under-23 captain, who has played for Bayern 13 times
since he joined from Sao Paulo for a fee of 11 million pounds.  City Scouting Hulk  Manchester City scouts have been looking at Porto player
Hulk, the  Daily Mirror  said.  The Brazilian has scored nine goals this season, including
two during last weekend’s 5-0 win over Benfica, which was
watched by scouts for the English club.  “I have heard about the rumors of the Premier League, but
I am focused on my work here,” the paper quoted Hulk as saying.  Scholes’ Retirement Delay  Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  has asked 35-year-
old  Paul Scholes  to play for another season, the  Daily Star 
reported.  “United still feel Scholes has plenty to offer and, as it
stands, want him to play on,” the paper quoted a Manchester
United source as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  