-- Iran Says U.S. to Blame for Failure to Win Board Seat on UN Women's Agency
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-11-10T23:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/iran-says-u-s-to-blame-for-failure-to-win-board-seat-on-un-women-s-agency.html
Iran was defeated today in its bid
for a seat on the board of a new  United Nations  body to promote
women’s rights after what an Iranian envoy called a
“politically motivated” campaign by the U.S.  The UN’s 54-member Economic and Social Council elected 41
members to the board of the agency, to be known as  UN Women ,
which officially begins its work Jan. 1. The UN General Assembly
voted in July to create the agency by merging four existing
bodies.  “These policies by the U.S. to put pressure on others to
not vote for Iran is very sad for the UN,” Eshagh Al Habib,
Iran’s deputy ambassador to the UN, said in an interview. “It
is a very politically motivated position. It is not
constructive.” Al Habib said Iran was “progressing very fast
in the field” of women’s rights.  The U.S. and rights groups including London-based  Amnesty
International  and New York-based  Human Rights Watch  opposed
Iran’s candidacy for one of the 10 board seats designated for
Asian nations. There were only 10 candidates, which would have
virtually guaranteed Iran’s election, until East Timor sought a
seat this week.  East Timor, Bangladesh, China, Indonesia, Japan, South
Korea, India, Kazakhstan, Malaysia and Pakistan were elected to
the Asian board seats.  ‘No Secret’  “We have made no secret of our concern that Iran joining
the board of UN Women would have been an inauspicious start to
that board,” U.S. Ambassador  Susan Rice  told reporters after
the vote. “They lost and they lost handily, and the slate that
was selected, including the late candidacy of East Timor, is one
that is largely comprised of countries that are committed to
women’s rights and have a good record of support for women’s
rights.”  Iran has drawn criticism for a court’s decision to sentence
a woman, Sakineh Mohammadi-Ashtiani, to death by stoning after
her 2006 conviction on charges of adultery and murder.  The U.S., Brazil, France, Russia and Saudi Arabia were
among the other nations elected to the board.  Rice was asked why the U.S. didn’t oppose the candidacy of
Saudi Arabia, where women aren’t allowed to drive and are barred
from many public facilities used by men.  “I am not going to deny that there were several countries
that are going to join the board of UN Women that have less-
than-stellar records on women’s rights -- indeed, human
rights,” Rice said. “Today’s elections, we believe, will
enable the institution to be launched well, with a strong
foundation.”  A ‘Joke’  Iranian Nobel Peace Prize winner  Shirin Ebadi  said
yesterday that the possible election of Iran and Saudi Arabia to
the board would be a “joke.”  Ebadi, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2003 for her
efforts to promote human rights in her home country, said the
situation in Iran is “deteriorating daily.” Regarding the
rights of women in Iran, she cited laws that make it more
difficult for a woman to obtain a divorce or a passport, and
that equate the court testimony of one man to that of two women.  In a statement on Saudi Arabia’s election to the board,
Hillel Neuer, executive director of the Geneva-based human
rights advocacy group  UN Watch , said it was “morally perverse
to reward a country that lashes rape victims and that
systematically subjugates women in every walk of life with the
power to negatively influence the global protection of women’s
rights.”  Saudi Arabia’s embassy in Washington didn’t respond to a
request for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 