-- Ireland's Honohan Says Budget Efforts Haven't Restored Market Sentiment
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2010-11-10T12:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/ireland-s-honohan-says-budget-efforts-haven-t-restored-market-sentiment.html
Irish central bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said government efforts to push down the country’s
deficit and recapitalize banks haven’t yet convinced investors.  “The scale on which capital has been replenished is very
large, though the favorable impact on investor confidence has
not yet been as strong as might be hoped for,” Honohan, who is
also a European Central Bank council member, said in Dublin
today. “Much of the reason for the slow return in confidence
lies in the parallel weakness of the fiscal situation.”  Irish yields have soared on concern that surging costs to
bail out domestic banks will make the debt burden unsustainable.
While European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
Olli Rehn said yesterday he’s got “no doubt” that the nation
will overcome its crisis, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief
European Economist Erik Nielsen has said there’s a “big
probability” of the government seeking external aid.  Irish bonds fell for a 12th day today, pushing the yield on
the country’s 10-year bonds to 8.4 percent as of 11:56 a.m. in
London. The spread over German bunds, Europe’s benchmark,
widened to a record 571 basis points.  The government last week reiterated that it aims to push
Ireland’s budget deficit below the EU limit of 3 percent of
gross domestic product by 2014 from about 12 percent of GDP this
year. When the costs of the banking rescue are included, this
year’s shortfall jumps to 32 percent of GDP. Rehn said on Nov. 8
that Ireland hasn’t requested any financial support.  ‘Challenging Problem’  With the country’s fiscal burden remaining “such a
challenging problem,” investors aren’t fully convinced that
government actions have been “effective and sufficient,”
Honohan said at the event. Ireland’s total loan losses through
2012 are estimated at “no less than” 85 billion euros ($117
billion), or 55 percent of GDP, he said.  “With government finances so stretched, the additional
burden of recapitalizing the banks has reduced fiscal headroom
and contributed to the concern on the financial markets,”
Honohan said. “Still, I would like to remind you that this
recapitalization burden is often overstated as a contributor to
the required fiscal adjustment.”  While “observers” have questioned whether Irish lenders
have set aside enough loan-loss provisions for their residential
mortgage books, “there is yet no hard indication” that losses
will exceed the central bank’s 5 percent stress scenario,
Honohan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  