-- Ireland's Comedians Mock Bankers at Festival as `Lenny Bruce Meets Keynes
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2010-11-10T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/ireland-s-comedians-mock-bankers-at-festival-as-lenny-bruce-meets-keynes.html
Irish comedians are lining up to
pillory financiers and lampoon politicians -- as investors dump
the government’s  bonds  on concern that a rescue of the banking
system will bankrupt the nation.  Satirists are making fun of events such as Agriculture
Minister  Brendan Smith ’s planned distribution of cheese to needy
families. That’s sparked a wave of puns, such as “You gouda be
kidding” from opposition politician Andrew Doyle, and taunts
that government policy is full of holes.  “ Lenny Bruce  meets  Keynes ” is how joint organizer  David McWilliams  describes  Kilkenomics  in the town of Kilkenny. Over
four days, beginning tomorrow, comedians will interrogate
investors such as Euro Pacific Capital’s  Peter Schiff .  The festival follows in the Irish tradition for self-
mockery and comes a week after the government unveiled 6 billion
euros ($8.4 billion) worth of cuts.  Unemployment  has doubled
since 2007, real-estate prices have plunged and the government
is fighting to avoid an international bailout.  “Economists festivals tend to be so po-faced, so bitchy,”
said McWilliams, 43, a former economist at the country’s central
bank, central bank,  UBS AG  and  BNP Paribas SA . “Whereas here
the involvement of comedians gives people the permission to get
involved. You can just rock up, and say: ‘Here’s my
questions.’”  While McWilliams organized the event before the government
cuts, he knows timing is everything in comedy. The jokes are
pouring in, especially after the food plan announced a day after
the cuts. “Cheese us Christ” and “Let them eat cheese” jibes
have popped up on Twitter. “They say that cheese can give you
nightmares. Now the nightmares are giving us cheese,” says an
entry on Irish bulletin board  Politicalworld.org . It also has
“Free cheese? They’ve all gone em’mental.”  Cat Laughs  McWilliams hatched the festival plan with Richard Cooke,
the founder of the  Cat Laughs Comedy Festival  in Kilkenny, held
each June. Cooke contacted him in an effort to understand how
the Celtic Tiger economy imploded so quickly.  The collapse is just “incomprehensible” to many people,
Cooke said. “Comedians take big ideas and make them accessible
to a wider audience,” he said.  The economics festival features more than 20 events, with
sessions including “The Best Way to Rob a Bank is to Own It,”
and “What the Hell Just Happened.”  McWilliams’s 2009 book “Follow the Money” traced the
roots of the country’s economic collapse. His show “Outsiders”
ran at Dublin’s  Abbey Theatre  in the summer.  While the lineup lacks the star power of a  Paul Krugman  or
 Joseph Stiglitz , it features Schiff, who predicted the recession
in 2006. Author  Bill Black  is also taking part, along with
commentators from Iceland and Argentina and some local
economists, such as Trinity’s College  Brian Lucey .  Boom, Bust  “I wanted the people who got the boom and bust. Schiff got
it,” said McWilliams. “Krugman’s great, I’m a big fan, but he
didn’t get it.”  Five hundred tickets have been sold so far, with Cooke
saying 1,000 would be a “fantastic result.” The festival will
end with comedians reading from the works of economists and
would cost about 100,000 euros to stage without volunteers, he
said.  “People are working on this for free,” said Cooke. “It’s
the most uneconomic thing about it. I believe in it, it’s worth
doing.”  Kilkenomics runs from Nov. 11 through Nov. 14 at various
venues in Kilkenny. Information: +353-56-776-3837;
 http://www.kilkenomics.com   ( Dara Doyle  writes for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Dara Doyle  at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net ;
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  