-- Israeli Committee Calls for Levying Special Tax on Oil and Gas Profits
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2010-11-10T18:57:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/israeli-committee-calls-for-levying-special-tax-on-oil-and-gas-profits.html
An Israeli committee appointed by
Finance Minister  Yuval Steinitz  has recommended levying a
special tax on gas and oil profits.  Under the panel’s interim recommendations, submitted to the
minister today, taxes on gas and oil resources would be
progressive, the Ministry of Finance said in an e-mailed
statement. The panel, which didn’t suggest raising the oil and
gas royalty rate, which is currently 12.5 percent, recommended
canceling a depletion allowance that it said substantially
diminishes revenue from energy fields.  “There is no doubt that the existing gas discoveries, and
the possible gas discoveries in the future, are the biggest and
most significant natural resource of the Israeli people,”
Steinitz said at a press conference where the recommendations
were announced. “It is our obligation to safeguard the Israeli
public’s right to benefit from these resources.”  Israel proposed changes after a group including companies
controlled by Israeli billionaire  Isaac Tshuva ’s  Delek Group
Ltd.  and partner  Noble Energy Ltd . made record gas finds off
Israel’s Mediterranean coast in the past two years. The two
finds, called Tamar and Leviathan, may hold 24 trillion cubic
feet of gas, double the U.K.’s proven reserves in 2009, and the
whole area as much as 30 trillion cubic feet, Noble said in
June.  Special Tax  The panel, headed by Hebrew University of Jerusalem
Professor Emeritus  Eytan Sheshinski , called for a special,
progressive tax to be levied on gas-field profits and said the
tax would take into account the expenses of the oil and gas
exploration partners. The tax will start at 20 percent and will
rise gradually to as much as 60 percent depending on the size of
profits, it said.  Sheshinski said at the press conference that if the panel’s
recommendations were adopted, the government’s share of the
proceeds from large oil and gas fields would rise to about 66
percent from the current 30 percent.  Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  expressed support
for the panel’s recommendations, saying they reflect the “need
to increase the state’s proportion of profits from the gas and
oil finds,” according to an e-mailed statement from the bank.  “It seems that this has the potential to be a tough hit on
the profits of the gas explorers and that the government is
increasing its profits in a dramatic way,” Guil Bashan, an
analyst at IBI in Tel Aviv, said by telephone. “It will be
interesting to see whether the committee’s conclusions shall
become diluted along the way until this eventually makes its way
into any form of legislation.”  Ministry’s ‘Commitments’  Gideon Tadmor , chief executive officer of  Delek Energy
Systems Ltd. , a partner in Tamar and Leviathan said in an
interview earlier this week that foreign banks “received
explicit commitments from the Finance Ministry that no harm will
be done to existing projects.” Tadmor said changes to tax laws
may “cast a big shadow” on the financing of the project.  As expectations for the size of the gas fields have grown,
the TA-25 index has surged, rising by about 21 percent during
the past 12 months. Leading those gains are Tamar and Leviathan
partners  Avner Oil Exploration-L.P.  and  Delek Drilling-LP , both
of which have nearly doubled in the past year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Wainer  in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer1@bloomberg.net ;
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 