-- IStar Said to Seek $2 Billion Facility, Debt Exchange
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 2010-11-11T15:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/istar-financial-said-to-seek-debt-exchange-up-to-2-billion-credit-line.html
  IStar Financial Inc ., the commercial
real-estate lender seeking to avert a bankruptcy filing next
year, is in talks with creditors about exchanging debt and
lining up as much as $2 billion in new financing, three people
with direct knowledge of the matter said.    Franklin Resources Inc ., IStar’s largest bondholder, is
leading one of the groups offering financing, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because the discussions are
private. The company is also in talks with  Centerbridge Capital
Partners LLC  as well as other lenders, including its banks,
about potential financing, according to the people.  IStar, which has funded properties including the Trump SoHo
hotel-condominium building in lower  Manhattan , may refinance its
loans with a new $1 billion to $2 billion credit line as an
alternative to seeking  bankruptcy protection , the people said.
IStar, which is being advised by Lazard, had about $2.8 billion
of non-performing loans as of Sept. 30 and reported that its
third-quarter net loss narrowed to $75.5 million from $248
million a year earlier.  “The fundamentals of IStar’s business appear to have
improved, potentially making third-party or lender financing a
more viable solution,” said  Michael Kim , an analyst at CRT
Capital Group in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Clearly there is more
work to be done given the level of troubled assets in the
portfolio, but the strength in the credit markets may allow the
company to find a workable refinancing.”  Financing Talks  Andrew Backman, a spokesman for New York-based IStar,
declined to comment. IStar climbed 36 cents, or 7 percent, to
$5.55 at 9:46 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
The shares earlier rose as much 9 percent.  Investors have embraced high-yield, high-risk debt as the  Federal Reserve  has held  interest rates  at record lows to
stimulate the economy. The extra yield investors demand to own
the bonds rather than Treasuries has shrunk to 5.75 percentage
points from 21.82 percentage points in December 2008, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Financing talks with bondholders, banks and other potential
investors are preliminary, said the people, and specifics about
the size of the package or interest rates haven’t been
determined. Any final deal is likely at least months away,
according to the people.  Loomis Sayles & Co., another IStar bondholder, and H/2
Capital Partners, the investment firm run by former IStar
executive Spencer Haber, are working with Franklin on the
potential debt exchange and financing, according to the people.
They are being advised by Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP,
the people said. IStar is looking to exchange existing debt for
new securities with a longer maturity, the people said.    Hedge Funds   Representatives from Loomis Sayles, H/2, Franklin,
Centerbridge and Milbank weren’t immediately available to
comment.  A new facility could allow the company to refinance some of
its secured debt, the people said. IStar has about $1.7 billion
of loans due in June 2011, according to one of the people.  Hedge funds that hold some of IStar’s loans include Silver
Point Capital LP, Davidson Kempner Capital Management LLC and
Monarch Alternative Capital LP, people familiar with the matter
said in September. The funds are represented by Akin, Gump,
Strauss, Hauer & Feld LLP, according to the people.  After creditors blocked it from amending loans, IStar
considered a so-called pre-packaged bankruptcy, where key terms
are in place before filing, people familiar with the situation
said in September. The company needed to negotiate a “material
reduction in terms to avert bankruptcy,”  Fitch Ratings  said on
Sept. 29.  IStar shares rose 19 percent on Oct. 28, the most in a more
than a year, after the company announced it would pay down a $1
billion credit facility.  IStar’s $448.5 million of 5.95 percent bonds due in October
2013 have risen to 91.5 cents on the dollar through yesterday
from 75 cents on Sept. 21, according to Trace, the bond price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:  Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 