-- Italian September Output Falls; French Production Rises Less Than Forecast
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2010-11-10T10:45:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/italian-september-output-falls-french-production-rises-less-than-forecast.html
Italian industrial output plunged
the most in 18 months in September and French production rose
less than economists forecast, suggesting the region’s export-
led recovery is losing some momentum.  Italian  output  fell 2.1 percent from August, when it
increased 1.6 percent, Rome-based  statistics office Istat  said
today. That’s the biggest drop since March 2009. In France,
 industrial production  rose 0.1 percent in September, less than
economists forecast, Paris-based statistics office Insee said.  The 16-member euro-region economy is cooling as a stronger
euro threatens to hurt exports just as the global recovery
falters and consumers hold back spending. In Germany, Europe’s
largest economy, industrial  output  unexpectedly dropped in
September. Some of the region’s largest companies including
 Daimler AG , the world’s second-biggest maker of luxury cars,
have relied on faster-growing economies to boost earnings.  “The global slowdown is likely to affect Italy as much as
other euro-region countries,” said  Annalisa Piazza , a fixed-
income analyst at Newedge Group in London. “If anything, the
pace of moderation is likely to be worse than in Germany and
France due to the country’s lack of competitiveness.”  Economists had forecast Italian output to drop 0.3 percent
in the month, according to the median of 20 estimates in a
 Bloomberg survey . Output rose 4.1 percent from a year earlier,
less than half the  revised 9.7 percent the previous month.
French manufacturing  output unexpectedly dropped, Insee said.  Strong Euro  Euro-region  growth  probably weakened to 0.5 percent in the
third quarter from 1 percent in the previous three months as
governments stepped up austerity measures, according to a
Bloomberg survey. The European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg will release the figures on Nov. 12.  The euro has appreciated 8.9 percent against the dollar
over the past two months, making exports less competitive just
as central banks around the world inject additional economic
stimulus. The U.S.  Federal Reserve  last week decided to buy more
assets to prop up the world’s largest economy.  Daimler, based in Stuttgart, Germany, raised its full-year
profit forecast on Oct. 28 amid increasing demand in markets
including China and the U.S.  Italy’s $2.3 trillion  economy  has been dependent on export
demand as companies hold back hiring, discouraging consumer
spending. Real unemployment, including workers paid by a state-
backed fund for layoffs, topped 11 percent in the three months
through June, the Bank of Italy said Oct. 15, above the 8.5
percent official  rate .  ‘Moderating Trend’  New car registrations fell 29 percent in October, with
domestic sales of  Fiat SpA , the nation’s biggest manufacturer,
slumping 40 percent.  Industrial orders  from abroad rose 11.5
percent in August while domestic orders gained 4.7 percent.  Today’s Italian data “confirm a moderating trend in
industrial activity in the third quarter,” said  Loredana Federico , an economist at UniCredit SpA in Milan. She said
growth in the region’s third-biggest  economy  probably weakened
to 0.3 percent in the third quarter from 0.5 percent in the
previous three months.  In France, Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  yesterday
signaled confidence in the outlook, saying the economy has
“recovered in a very firm way.”  “With exports there have been ups and downs, but they are
growing,” she said. Still, “all industrial companies that have
costs in euros are, of course, concerned about the volatility”
of currencies and “there’s an obvious link between industry and
exchange-rate movements.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  