-- Italian Industrial Production Plunges Most in 18 Months as Recovery Slows
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-11-10T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/italian-industrial-production-plunges-most-in-18-months-as-recovery-slows.html
Italian industrial output plunged
the most in 18 months in September, a sign the economy’s  export -
led recovery may have slowed in the third quarter amid weak
 consumer spending .  Output  fell 2.1 percent from August, when it increased a
1.6 percent, the biggest gain in seven months, Rome-based
 statistics office Istat  said today. Economists forecast a 0.3
percent decline in September, according to the median of 20
estimates in a  Bloomberg survey . Output rose 4.1 percent from a
year earlier, less than half the revised 9.7 percent the
previous month.  Italy’s recovery from its worst recession since World War
II has struggled to create jobs even as the $2.3 trillion
 economy  grew 0.5 percent in the second quarter, leaving the
country dependent on exports for growth. Real unemployment,
including workers paid by a state-backed fund for layoffs,
topped 11 percent in the three months through June, the Bank of
Italy said Oct. 15, above the 8.5 percent official  rate .  Production of consumer-related goods, which make up almost
28 percent of the IP index, fell 1.8 percent from previous
month, the report said.  The Finance Ministry  said  Sept. 29 that the euro region’s
third-biggest  economy  will expand 1.2 percent this year, up from
1 percent it  predicted  on May 6. Growth in gross domestic
product may have slowed to 0.4 percent in the third quarter,
according to the median of 20 forecasts in a  Bloomberg survey .
Istat will release GDP figures on Nov. 12.  New car registrations fell 29 percent in October, with
domestic sales of  Fiat SpA , the nation’s biggest manufacturer,
slumping 40 percent.  Industrial orders  from abroad rose 11.5
percent in August while domestic orders gained 4.7 percent.  The decrease in Italian output was mirrored in Europe’s
largest economy. German  production  declined 0.8 in September.
French output rose 0.1 percent, Paris-based statistics institute
Insee said in a separate report today.  Istat had initially reported an annual increase in
industrial output of 9.5 percent in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  