-- Mizuho, Japan Banks Climb on Report G-20 to Consider Softer Capital Rules
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2010-11-10T06:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/mizuho-japanese-lenders-climb-in-tokyo-on-g-20-capital-rules-media-report.html
Mizuho Financial Group Inc.  led
Japan’s biggest banks higher in Tokyo after a newspaper report
that Group of 20 leaders may consider different capital rules
for lenders with mostly domestic operations and for global banks.  Mizuho  climbed 7.6 percent, the biggest gain since Oct. 6,
to close at 127 yen on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc ., the nation’s biggest bank, rose 4.2
percent to 393 yen and  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. ,
Japan’s second-largest lender, rose 5.9 percent to 2,512 yen.  World leaders this week will consider a plan that would
exempt most big Asian lenders from more stringent regulation and
capital requirements, the Financial Times reported, citing
people briefed on the agenda. Mizuho and Sumitomo Mitsui get
more than 80 percent of their revenue from the domestic market,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Japanese banks’ businesses are still more domestically
run, compared with their global rivals,” said  Winston Barnes ,
head of sales and trading for Asian markets at WJB Capital Group
Inc. in San Francisco. “I can only see this as a positive for
now and the bank stocks are coming off from a very low base and
investors are hungry for any kind of news now.”  Mizuho, Sumitomo Mitsui and Mitsubishi UFJ could be removed
from the list of global banks, the FT said, citing unidentified
legal experts. The Financial Stability Board has been working to
compile the list, which originally also included Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley, HSBC Holdings
Plc, UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG, the report said.  The Topix Banks Index rose 4.6 percent. The index has
gained 6.3 percent since it reached a record low on Nov. 1.  “Hedge funds have been selling Japanese banks on the back
of capital-raising concerns,” said  Mitsushige Akino , the chief
fund manager at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. who oversees
about $450 million in assets in Tokyo. “Anything can be a
catalyst to boost Japanese bank shares at the moment, whether or
not the article is based only on speculation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 