-- Japan’s Machinery Orders Fall for First Month in Four
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2010-11-11T02:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/japan-machinery-orders-fall-for-first-time-in-four-months-as-exports-cool.html
Japanese machinery orders fell for
the first time in four months, a sign that companies are
becoming reluctant about increasing spending as the nation’s
export-led recovery slows.  Factory orders, an indicator of  capital spending  in three
to six months, fell 10.3 percent in September from the previous
month, the Cabinet Office said today in Tokyo, the biggest slide
since March 2008. The median forecast of 27 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News was for a 9.5 percent decline.  The report adds to evidence that the yen’s surge to a 15-
year high against the dollar and slowing global growth are
weighing on corporate sentiment. Toyota Motor Corp. has revised
upward its forecast for the yen rate while Nissan Motor Co. has
pared its investment plans as the appreciation erodes profits.  “Capital spending will probably shrink this quarter,” said
Naoki Tsuchiyama, a market economist at Mizuho Securities Co. in
Tokyo. “Companies are already cutting costs considerably to
protect their earnings.”  Orders rose 10.1 percent in August, the biggest gain this
year. The yen traded at 82.17 per dollar as of 10:45 a.m. in
Tokyo, compared with 82.26 before the report was released. The
Japanese currency has still gained 4 percent since authorities
tried to stem the yen’s advance by intervening in  currency
markets  on Sept. 15.  Toyota’s Estimate  Toyota, the world’s largest carmaker, updated its estimate
for the Japanese currency to 85 yen against the dollar from 90
yen for the year ending March 31. The yen climbed to 80.22
against the dollar on Nov. 1, the highest level since April 1995.  “If the yen stays at this level in the mid- to long-term,
this is an extremely painful prospect,” Toyota Executive Vice
President Satoshi Ozawa said last week.  Nissan, Japan’s third-largest automaker, said last week
that the company expects the strong yen to cut its full-year
operating profit by 185 billion yen. Nissan also plans 340
billion yen in capital spending for the year ending on March 31,
smaller than its previous 360 billion yen forecast.  Orders will probably fall 9.8 percent in the three-months
ending Dec. 31, which would be the first decline in five
quarters, a survey of companies included in today’s report
showed. The government kept its monthly assessment of machinery
orders unchanged.  Recovery ‘Pausing’  The  Bank of Japan  this week downgraded its economic
assessment for a second month, saying that the recovery is
“pausing” as exports and production cool. It held the
overnight call rate target to between zero and 0.1 percent at
its Nov. 4-5 meeting, which was brought forward by more than a
week to speed up deciding details of its asset-purchase program.  A separate report today showed corporate goods prices rose
0.9 percent in October from the same month a year ago.  The decline in orders in September would be a pull-back
from the large jump in the previous month and machinery orders
are still on a moderate recovery track, said  Junko Nishioka ,
chief economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo.  “Although the level of orders remains low, companies are
gradually increasing business investment as corporate profits
are rebounding,” Nishioka said before the report was released.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  