-- Asian Stocks Rise as Japanese Banks Increase, Exporters Climb on Yen Slide
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2010-11-11T10:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/japanese-stock-futures-australian-shares-increase-as-dollar-oil-advance.html
Asian stocks  climbed, with the
regional benchmark index advancing toward a more than two-year
high, as Moody’s Investors Service raised the Chinese
government’s bond rating and Japanese banks rose on a brokerage
upgrade.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the nation’s
biggest listed lender, increased 2.9 percent in Hong Kong.
PetroChina Co., China’s biggest oil producer, jumped 3.4 percent
after crude prices neared a two-year high. Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc., Japan’s biggest bank by market value,
increased 1.5 percent after Deutsche Bank AG boosted its rating
on Japanese banks.  Toyota Motor Corp. , the world’s biggest
carmaker, advanced 2 percent in Tokyo after the dollar rose
against the yen.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  climbed 0.3 percent to 134.52
at 7:53 p.m. in Tokyo, with seven of 10 industry groups on the
gauge increasing. The measure earlier rose to its highest level
since July 24, 2008. China’s Shanghai Composite Index added 1
percent after Moody’s Investors Service upgraded the country’s
government bond credit rating to Aa3 from A1 and maintained its
positive outlook.  “Confidence has swung back to the view that the global
economic recovery will continue,” said  Shane Oliver , Sydney-
based head of investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd.,
which manages $85 billion. “Most investors will have a positive
view about China’s sovereign risk. China’s still in good
shape.”  China Upgraded  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index added 0.8 percent. Japan’s
Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 0.3 percent, while Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 0.6 percent.  South Korea’s  Kospi Index  dropped 2.7 percent in the last
few minutes of trading today as the expiration of options
contracts spurred the largest-ever sales of equities by foreign
investors, who sold a record net 1.34 trillion won ($1.2 billion)
of shares listed on the mainboard gauge today.  The index reversed earlier gains of as much as 0.4 percent.
Samsung Electronics Co., Asia’s biggest maker of chips, dropped
2.9 percent and Hyundai Motor Co., South Korea’s largest
automaker, dropped 4.6 percent in Seoul.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  dropped 0.3
percent today after Cisco Systems Inc. projected less profit
than analysts estimated. The index increased 0.4 percent
yesterday as the rally in oil buoyed energy producers and
concern eased that Europe’s debt crisis will worsen.  ‘Resilient Performance’  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China gained 2.9 percent to
HK$6.82 in Hong Kong, the second-biggest contributor to the Hang
Seng index’s advance. China Construction Bank Corp. increased
0.8 percent to HK$7.72 and  Bank of China Ltd.  rose 0.7 percent
to HK$4.67.  Moody’s Investors Service raised China’s foreign and local
debt rating to Aa3, the fourth highest ranking, citing the
nation’s financial strength and ability to contain losses from a
credit boom. The ratings agency also lifted Hong Kong to Aa1
from Aa2.  “The resilient performance of the Chinese economy
following the onset of the global financial crisis, and
expectations of continued strong growth,” were reasons for the
upgrade, Moody’s said in a statement.  China’s Inflation  The People’s Bank of China said in a statement yesterday
banks’ reserve requirements will rise half a point from Nov. 16,
the first nationwide increase since May.  China’s inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in two
years in October, a statistics bureau report today showed,
building the case for the central bank to add to last month’s
rate increase. Consumer prices rose 4.4 percent from a year
earlier, boosted by food costs. That was more than the 4 percent
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 28 economists.  PetroChina, rose 3.4 percent to HK$10.50. Rio Tinto Group,
the world’s third-biggest mining company, increased 1.4 percent
to A$87.36 in Sydney. Inpex Corp., Japan’s biggest energy
explorer, rose 0.9 percent to 437,000 yen.  Crude Prices Jump  Crude oil for December delivery increased 1.3 percent
yesterday in New York to $87.81 a barrel, the highest settlement
since Oct. 8, 2008, after a government report showed an
unexpected decline in U.S. crude inventories as imports fell and
refineries bolstered operating rates.  Japanese banks led gains on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index for
a second day, after Deutsche Bank raised their outlook on the
sector to “overweight” from “market-weight.”  Mitsubishi UFJ rose 1.5 percent to 399 yen. Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc., Japan’s second-biggest bank by market
value, gained 1.8 percent to 2,556 yen.  Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. , the No. 3, climbed 2.4 percent to 130 yen.  Deutsche Bank raised its investment rating on the sector
following a report by the Financial Times yesterday, which said
Japan’s three-largest banks are among Asian lenders that may be
exempted from plans to subject major global banks to stricter
regulations and capital requirements, since most or all of their
assets are domestic. The report cited legal experts and people
briefed on the agenda for this week’s meeting of the G-20.  The Likelihood  The likelihood of this happening is quite high, Deutsche
Bank analyst  Yoshinobu Yamada  said in a report dated today.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  increased 11 percent this year
to yesterday, compared with gains of 9.3 percent by the S&P 500
and 6.9 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark are valued at 14.7 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 14.4 times for the S&P 500 and 12.3 times
for the Stoxx 600.  Japanese exporters rose, with the gauge tracking  consumer
discretionary  stocks rising the second-most among the 10
industry groups on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index, as the dollar
strengthened to a one-month high against the yen, boosting the
outlook for export earnings.  Dollar Strengthens  Toyota, which receives about 30 percent of its sales from
North America, climbed 2 percent to 3,115 yen, the  leading
positive influence  on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. Honda Motor
Co., which receives about 80 percent of its sales outside of
Japan, increased 0.3 percent to 3,040 yen.  Sharp Corp. , Japan’s
largest maker of liquid-crystal displays, rose 2.7 percent to
829 yen.  The dollar appreciated to as much as 82.80 yen about 3 a.m.
today in Tokyo, the strongest level since Oct. 7, as higher U.S.
Treasury  yields  made dollar-denominated assets more attractive
to international investors. A higher dollar boosts the value of
U.S. income at Japanese companies when repatriated.  “Business sentiment in the U.S. is gradually improving,
supporting the dollar’s strength,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who
oversees about $450 million in assets in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi
Investment Management Co. “Many companies assumed 80 yen per
dollar and may raise their earnings forecasts.”  BHP, Gome  Among other stocks that rose, BHP Billiton Ltd., the
world’s largest mining company, rose 1 percent to A$44.59 in
Sydney and was the  second-biggest  support to the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index. BHP may seek to acquire oil and gas producer
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. if its $40 billion bid for Potash Corp.
of Saskatchewan Inc. fails, Morgan Stanley said. Woodside
advanced 1.2 percent to A$42.74.  In Hong Kong, Gome Electrical Appliances Holdings Ltd.,
China’s second-biggest electronics retailer, surged 19 percent
to HK$3.24, after agreeing to appoint its jailed founder’s
representatives to the board to end a dispute over control of
the retailer. The stock rose the most on the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index today.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 