-- Japan's Bonds Fall, 10-Year Yields Climb to 1% on Weaker Yen, Stock Gains
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2010-11-11T06:45:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/japan-s-government-bonds-may-advance-end-four-day-drop-on-factory-output.html
Japanese  bonds  fell, pushing 10-year
yields to 1 percent for the first time in seven weeks, as a
weaker yen boosted local stocks and eased concern that deflation
will quicken.  Benchmark 10-year bonds dropped for a fifth day after a
central bank report showed producer prices increased more than
economists forecast. Demand for five-year notes climbed at a 2.4
trillion-yen ($29 billion) auction of the securities today as
the  spread  between five- and 10-year yields was near the
narrowest level in 18 months.  “The recovery in stocks and the halt in the yen’s
appreciation are likely to continue to weigh on Japan’s bonds,”
said  Masaru Hamasaki , who helps oversee $18 billion as chief
strategist at Toyota Asset Management Co. in Tokyo.  The  yield  on the 10-year bond rose one basis point to 1
percent as of 3:33 p.m. at Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s
largest interdealer debt broker. The 1 percent security due in
September 2020 fell 0.089 yen to 100 yen. The last time yields
climbed to 1 percent was Sept. 24.  Ten-year bond futures for December delivery dropped 0.10 to
142.42 at the afternoon close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  The yen traded at 82.26 per dollar after declining to 82.80
yesterday, the lowest since Oct. 7. A weaker yen increases the
value of overseas sales at Japanese exporters when repatriated.
The  Nikkei 225  Stock Average rose 0.3 percent.  Producer Prices  Bonds declined after the Bank of Japan said  producer prices 
gained 0.9 percent in October from a year earlier, the biggest
increase since December 2008.  “That’s a sign of inflation driven by gains in
materials,” Toyota Asset’s Hamasaki said. “Commodity prices
are rising on the back of expectations emerging economies will
play a bigger role in leading the global economy.”  Traders predict Japanese  consumer prices  will fall 0.63
percent annually for the next six years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the smallest decline since
September 2008 for the so-called six-year breakeven rate, or the
difference between yields on inflation-linked bonds and
conventional debt.  China today reported consumer prices rose 4.4 percent in
October from a year earlier, the fastest pace in two years.
Inflation decreases the purchasing power of the fixed payment
from debt.  Five-Year Sale  Today’s sale of five-year notes drew bids valued at 3.93
times the amount on offer, the highest so-called bid-to-cover
ratio since Aug. 11.  The  spread  between five-and 10-year yields was 66 basis
points, after shrinking to 60 basis points on Oct. 22, the
narrowest since May 2009.  “Five-year notes have become undervalued, while 10-year
bonds have become overvalued,”  Takafumi Yamawaki , chief rates
strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo, wrote today in a
report. “Five-year yields have been sufficiently adjusted, and
we expect the securities’ undervaluation to be corrected.”  The decline in bonds was tempered after a bigger-than-
forecast drop in machinery orders stoked concern the economic
recovery will stall.  Orders  fell 10.3 percent in September from the previous
month, a government report showed today, surpassing the 9.5
percent drop estimated by economists.  “Economic stagnation will deepen until the beginning of
the second half of 2011,” said  Takeshi Minami , chief economist
at Norinchukin Research Institute Co. in Tokyo. “Higher yields
give investors a good chance to buy, considering the economic
outlook.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 