-- Japanese Stocks Climb, Led by Banks; Exporters Advance on Stronger Dollar
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2010-11-10T07:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/japanese-stocks-climb-led-by-banks-exporters-advance-on-stronger-dollar.html
Japanese  stocks  gained, sending the
Nikkei 225 Stock Average to a four-month high, as banks advanced
on speculation they will be exempt from stricter capitalization
rules. Exporters climbed on a stronger dollar.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s biggest
publicly traded bank, jumped 4.2 percent after the Financial
Times reported the Group of 20 nations will consider a plan to
exempt domestic-oriented banks from tougher capital rules.  Canon
Inc. , a camera maker that gets about 80 percent of its revenue
abroad, climbed 3.1 percent. Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s
largest carmaker, advanced 2.3 percent.  “Hedge funds have been selling Japanese banks on the back
of capital-raising concerns,” said Mitsushige Akino, who
oversees about $450 million in assets in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi
Investment Management Co. “Anything can be a catalyst to boost
Japanese bank shares at the moment, whether or not the article
is based only on speculation.”  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  gained 1.4 percent to 9,830.52
as of the close in Tokyo, the highest since June 24. The broader
Topix rose 1.6 percent to 852.98, with almost four times as many
shares advancing as declining.  Mitsubishi UFJ jumped 4.2 percent to 393 yen, and its
closest rival Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. soared 5.9
percent to 2,512 yen.  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. , Japan’s
third-largest lender, surged 7.6 percent to 127 yen. The three
banks contributed the most to the Topix among its 1,664
companies. An  index of banks  gained the most among the Topix’s
33 industry groups.  Bank Regulations  The Financial Times reported G-20 nations will consider a
plan to treat banks with global operations separately from those
that are primarily domestic. The two-tier system would exempt
most Asian banks from stricter capital requirements, the report
said, citing people familiar with the summit’s agenda. Adoption
of the plan would benefit Japanese banks, Citigroup Inc. said in
a Japanese-language report dated today.  “Bank shares have been sold to a level that is
undervalued, considering their net assets per share and dividend
yields,” said  Masayoshi Yano , a senior market analyst at Tokyo-
based Meiwa Securities Co. “If the report is true, concern that
banks need to raise capital will ease.”  In October,  Mario Draghi , the chairman of the  Financial
Stability Board , which met in Seoul, said that regulators would
continue to work on options for regulating large lenders.
Capital and liquidity rules for banks deemed too big to fail may
vary “country to country,” the chairman of the global group of
financial regulators said.  Exporters Gain  Regulators are searching for ways to ensure banks that are
too big to fail are able to withstand financial shocks such as
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. The U.K.,
U.S. and Switzerland are considering capital surcharges on their
largest lenders that go beyond minimum rules for banks proposed
in September by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.  Canon gained 3.1 percent to 3,995 yen. Sony Corp., an
electronics maker that earns about 40 percent of its revenue
from the U.S. and Europe, advanced 1.3 percent to 2,749 yen.
Toyota climbed 2.3 percent to 3,055 yen. Nissan Motor Co., a
carmaker that earns about a third of its sales from North
America, gained 1.9 percent to 790 yen.  Makers of electronics and cars were the second- and third-
biggest contributors to the Topix’s gain.  The dollar appreciated to as much as 81.97 yen about 5:50
a.m. in Tokyo, the strongest level since Oct. 27, boosting the
value of dollar-based sales at Japanese companies when converted
into their home currency.  Mitsubishi Corp. , Japan’s biggest commodities trader,
advanced 1.8 percent to 2,125 yen. Mitsui & Co., a trading house
that counts commodities as its biggest source of profit, rose 1
percent to 1,351 yen.  The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial metals including copper and aluminum jumped 2.4
percent yesterday to the highest level since May 2008.  -- With assistance from  Toshiro Hasegawa . Editors:  Sam Waite ,
 Nicolas Johnson .  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Norie Kuboyama  in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 