-- John Henry Gets `Steal' as $476 Million in Liverpool May Double
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-11-10T16:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/john-henry-gets-steal-as-476-million-in-liverpool-may-double.html
John W. Henry ’s New England Sports
Ventures may double its investment in  Liverpool Football Club  in
five years, according to bankers who work with English Premier
League teams.  Henry, 61, purchased England’s most successful soccer team
for 300 million pounds ($476 million), 81 million pounds more
than  Tom Hicks  and  George Gillett  paid for it in February 2007.
Hicks and Gillett were forced to sell to repay 200 million
pounds of the club’s 351 million pounds of debt.  Henry, who owns Major League Baseball’s Boston Red Sox,
isn’t buying a broken business, said bankers who requested
anonymity because they didn’t want to lose other teams in the
league as clients. Hicks, 64, and Gillett, 72, raised revenue
and operating profit at the 118-year-old club before being
felled by debt and a credit crisis that made banks less willing
to lend.  “This is a steal,” said  Marc Ganis , a Chicago-based
consultant who was a principle in a Chinese group negotiating to
buy the club. “There is a reason John Henry was so eager to
close this deal -- he got himself the bargain of the century.”  Two bankers who requested anonymity say that, under
ordinary circumstances, the team would have been worth an
additional 100 million to 150 million pounds. In five years, it
may be worth twice as much, they said. Ganis agreed.  Forbes Magazine  estimated Liverpool’s value at 533 million
pounds in its April 21 edition.  Never Walk Alone  Liverpool, which has fan clubs in cities from New York to
Bangkok, dominated European soccer for two decades, winning 11
of its 18 English championships and four of its five European
Cups between 1972 and 1990, with players such as  Kenny Dalglish ,
 Ian Rush  and  John Barnes . The team logo bears the words “You’ll
Never Walk Alone,” and fans sing the  Richard Rodgers  and Oscar
Hammerstein song before every home match.  Fans protested Hicks and Gillett’s ownership because of the
debt loaded onto the team, holding marches and burning the U.S.
flag. In the Kop, a section of the stadium that holds some of
the team’s most fervent fans, supporters held banners that said
“Thanks, but no Yanks.” During the hearing that cleared the
sale to Henry at the High Court in London, scores of red-clad
Liverpool supporters cheered and sang when Hicks and Gillett
were ordered to sell.  Henry’s purchase came at one of the darkest times in
Liverpool’s history: The club was off to its worst start in 57
seasons, and it has been two decades since it won an English
championship.  Red Sox Success  Liverpool fans may take solace in Henry’s record with the
Red Sox: The club has won two championships since his purchase
in 2002; its most recent title before then was in 1918.  The sale slashed Liverpool’s annual debt payment to between
2 million and 3 million pounds from between 25 million and 30
million pounds, Henry’s investment group said in a news release
last month. It didn’t say how it financed the agreement, and
Henry didn’t return messages left at his office.  Hicks and Gillett increased sales 46 percent to 195.5
million pounds in three years through July 31 and raised
operating profit -- which doesn’t include interest on debt or
player acquisition costs -- more than threefold to 32 million
pounds.  Liverpool may surpass 200 million pounds in revenue for the
first time at the end of the current season, though audited
financial reports for fiscal 2010 won’t be available until
April.  Hicks declined to be interviewed, while Gillett wouldn’t
comment on the potential value of the team under Henry’s group.
Hicks, in a press release, called that sale to Henry’s group an
“epic swindle” and tried to stop the sale in court.  ‘Made Them Winners’  British Airways Plc  Chairman  Martin Broughton , who became
Liverpool chairman in April at the request of creditor  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc , said the board favored Henry because
of his success with the Red Sox.  “They came in and made them winners,” he said in an
interview last month. “That’s what we want to see.”  Liverpool today announced it has hired recruitment company
Spencer Stuart to find a replacement for a chief executive
officer following Managing Director Christian Purslow’s exit
last month. Henry’s business partner Tom Werner was named
chairman last week.  Broughton said the team’s problems were caused by a
reliance on debt by Hicks and Gillett, not lack of operational
acumen.  “The commercial revenue was way higher than what it was
before,” Broughton said. “They’ve done some pretty good
things. Without the leverage they could have been successful.”  Expansion Plans  With revenue up and debt down, the new owners are in a
position to invest in the club.  Hicks and Gillett planned to spend 350 million pounds on a
new 60,000-seat stadium, which would have added about 75 more
hospitality suites and about 8,000 premium seats. Henry’s group
hasn’t decided whether to adopt the plan or consider other
possibilities, Liverpool spokesman  Paul Tyrrell  said.  Anfield , the team’s 126-year-old home, has 45,000 seats and
25 hospitality suites that generated 42.5 million pounds in
fiscal 2009.  By comparison, game-day revenue at London team Arsenal more
than doubled in a year to 93.9 million pounds after it moved to
a  new 60,000-seat stadium  in July 2006, according to the team.  Revenue Trails  Liverpool’s match-day revenue ranks eighth in England and
compares with 108.8 million pounds at Manchester United, 100.1
million pounds at Arsenal and 74.5 million pounds at Chelsea,
Deloitte LLP said in its  Football Money League report  in March.  However, Liverpool’s revenue from sponsorships and
merchandise for fiscal 2009 was the second highest in the
 Premier League  at 67.7 million pounds, trailing only Manchester
United (70 million pounds), Deloitte said.  As the business side stabilizes, the team is showing signs
of recovery on the field. The Reds, who play at Wigan tonight,
have lost once in five games since the takeover and they beat
league leader and defending champion Chelsea 2-0 on Nov. 7.  “We’ve won four games in a row,” said striker  Fernando Torres,  who scored both goals against Chelsea, his first two-
goal game of the season. “This is what we have to be doing more
regularly because this is what Liverpool is all about. We are
now moving in the right direction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Curtis Eichelberger  in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net ; or
 Tariq Panja  in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  