-- Judge Tells ESun to Mediate $4 Billion Macau Casino Dispute With Investors
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2010-11-10T07:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/judge-tells-esun-to-mediate-4-billion-macau-casino-dispute-with-investors.html
A Hong Kong judge told an  eSun
Holdings Ltd.  unit and its partners in a Macau, China, casino
project including  Oaktree Capital Management LP  and Silver Point
Capital LP to settle their dispute through mediation.  Any unreasonable refusal to try to settle would result in a
reduced award at the end of a trial, High Court Judge A.T. Reyes
said at a hearing today on petitions by each partner for the
other to be ordered to drop their interest in the project.  ESun unit East Asia Satellite Television (Holdings) Ltd.
and New Cotai LLC, owned by Oaktree, Silver Point and former  Las
Vegas Sands Corp.  executive  David Friedman , announced plans for
a $4 billion casino complex in 2007. East Asia and New Cotai are
now suing each other for hindering the development of the
project.  “Instead of the parties sitting at a table arguing, you
have someone come in who tries to help the parties perhaps see
it from a different perspective,” said  Charles Allen , an
accredited mediator based in Hong Kong.  Parties who don’t make a reasonable effort to resolve
disputes in mediation when directed to do so can have legal
costs deducted from any award, according to the court’s rules,
he said.  Friedman declined to comment after today’s hearing, citing
the ongoing litigation.  David Goh, a lawyer for eSun, said the company is
discussing the prospect of mediation with its legal advisers and
declined to comment further.  Reyes in July dismissed East Asia’s $2.39 billion claim
against New Cotai, calling it “untenable.” He allowed a
separate claim for $88.6 million against New Cotai for
“inducing breach” of an agreement to proceed. An appeal
hearing for eSun has been scheduled for May.  The project’s delay has already seen Playboy Enterprises
Inc. terminate its licensing agreement to build a Playboy
mansion on the site last year. The Macau government has said it
may take back undeveloped land it has granted to investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Debra Mao  in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  