-- Kan's Stimulus Plan Won't Halt Japan Deflation, Meiji Yasuda's Kodama Says
-- B y   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 2010-11-10T06:23:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/kan-s-stimulus-plan-won-t-halt-japan-deflation-meiji-yasuda-s-kodama-says.html
Japanese Prime Minister Naoto Kan’s
5.1 trillion yen ($62 billion) stimulus plan won’t solve a
mismatch in supply and demand responsible for the nation’s
falling prices, according to  Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co.   Japan suffers from low growth and deflation because its
supply structure hasn’t caught up with changes in demand, said
 Yuichi Kodama , chief economist at Japan’s third-biggest life
insurer, which had 25 trillion yen ($306 billion) of assets in
its general account at the end of March. Domestic sales at
automakers and other manufacturers are bound to decrease as
Japan’s society ages and the number of working households
dwindles, he said.  “Fiscal stimulus won’t be able to solve this type of
problem and isn’t the right prescription," Tokyo-based Kodama
said. ‘‘Japan doesn’t need a 5 trillion yen extra budget.”  Kan’s cabinet last month endorsed the stimulus plan to
safeguard an economic recovery and help local governments and
small businesses cope with the surging yen.  The government plans to cap annual spending at 71 trillion
yen over the next three years and keep fiscal 2011 bond sales
below this year’s 44 trillion yen, according to its fiscal
strategy released in June. It will likely have difficulty
meeting the target next fiscal year, Kodama said.  Japan needs to focus on easing regulations, opening its
market and changing its supply structure, Kodama said. There is
demand worth several trillions of yen lying untapped in markets
such as medical and welfare services, which are blocked to
private companies due to regulatory hurdles, according to the
economist said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yumi Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 Rswift5@bloomberg.net . 