-- Karatz Gets Probation for KB Home Backdating Over Prosecutors' Objections
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   T o r i   R i c h a r d s
-- 2010-11-11T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/kb-home-s-ex-ceo-karatz-gets-five-years-probation-in-stock-backdating-case.html
Bruce Karatz , the  KB Home  ex-chief
convicted of hiding backdated stock options from auditors and
regulators, was sentenced to five years of probation by a
federal judge who rejected prosecutors’ call for prison time.  U.S. District Judge  Otis D. Wright II , at a hearing
yesterday in Los Angeles, ordered the former chief executive
officer to pay a $1 million fine, serve eight months of home
detention with electronic monitoring and perform 2,000 hours of
community service.  Wright said he had “lost a lot of sleep over the right
thing to do in this case.” He said his decision on how to
punish Karatz was consistent with federal sentencing guidelines
and his own record of not meting out prison time to defendants
with no criminal record and no history of violence.  In April, Karatz, 65, was found guilty by a jury of two
counts of mail fraud and two counts of making a false statement.
The conviction stemmed from Karatz’s actions in 2006 during an
internal investigation of backdated options. He was acquitted of
16 charges, including securities fraud, related to the actual
options prosecutors said he illegally backdated.  The judge acquitted him of one count of mail fraud on
Oct. 15, finding that prosecutors had failed to provide evidence
that a misleading report on the homebuilders’ process of picking
option dates had been sent to  KB Home ’s auditors by mail.  Prosecutors said in an Oct. 14 filing that sentencing
Karatz to home detention at his 24-room mansion in Bel Air,
California, would suggest that there is a two-tier justice
system in which well-connected chief executives can break the
rules with virtual impunity.  ‘Wealthy’ Defendant  “To promote respect for the law, the public must be
assured that a wealthy, well-connected individual, regardless of
his station, array of prominent friends and associates, history
of private success or acts of public largesse, will be subject
to the same standard of criminal justice as those less
fortunate,” prosecutors said in the filing.  Wright yesterday called the government’s remarks “mean-
spirited and beneath this office.”  “But what was even more disturbing was the inflammatory
language in the government’s report that if this court did not
impose a harsh sentence that it was evidence of a two-tiered
justice system, one of the rich and one for everyone else,” the
judge said.  The hearing was attended by about 50 people, mostly well-
wishers for the defendant, who cried as he was being sentenced.  Karatz declined to speak to reporters afterwards.  ‘We’re Relieved’  “We were nervous,” his attorney,  Elliot Peters , said
after the sentencing. “He was acquitted of 17 of 20 counts.
He’s 65 and they were trying to put him in prison for six years.
We’re relieved and we have a great deal of respect for the
judge.”  Assistant U.S. Attorney  Paul Stern , whose office was
seeking a 6 1/2-year prison term for Karatz, said, “We
respectfully disagree with the judge’s decision.” He declined
to comment further.  Los Angeles billionaire and philanthropist  Eli Broad , who
co-founded homebuilder Kaufman & Broad Inc., which became  KB
Home  in 2001, was a character witness for Karatz at the trial.  Karatz, who was chief executive officer of Los Angeles-
based  KB Home  from 1986 until 2006, was accused of making about
$6.62 million more than he was he entitled to, from 1999 to
2005, by retroactively picking the dates he was to have received
stock options grants.  One of Karatz’s lawyers,  John Keker , said during the trial
that there was no criminal intent because nobody at KB Home
believed they were doing anything wrong at that time. It isn’t
illegal to pick a grant date for stock options different from
the date the compensation committee decides on them, and the
accounting rules weren’t clear, the lawyer said.  The case is U.S. v. Karatz, 09-00203, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
 Tori Richards  in Los Angelest .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 