-- Kharafi Defends Zain Stake Sale to Etisalat, Says Procedures Transparent
-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f   a n d   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2010-11-10T08:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/kharafi-defends-zain-stake-sale-to-etisalat-says-procedures-transparent.html
Kuwait’s Kharafi Group, which is
leading the sale of 46 percent of  Zain  to Emirates
Telecommunications Corp., defended procedures followed in the
$12 billion deal which it said will have a positive effect on
the Kuwaiti economy.  “Everyone who has seen the deal, including shareholders
who have declared, for their own reasons, that they won’t be
contributing to it, has affirmed that this deal is one of the
most professional, transparent economic transactions, and one
that achieves the most benefits for Zain shareholders,” Al-
Khair National for Stocks and Real Estate Co., which is owned by
Kharafi, said in an advertisement in local newspapers today.  Al-Khair was responding to yesterday’s ad by Al-Fawares
Holding Co., another Zain shareholder, which said it intends to
sue Zain and its board for allowing  Emirates Telecommunications ,
known as Etisalat, to conduct due diligence on the Kuwaiti phone
operator without presenting the purchase offer. Al-Fawares also
cast doubt on the sincerity of Etisalat’s offer.  “Can shareholders’ interests be safeguarded by causing
confusion and raising doubt over a deal which, if it succeeds,
will bring lucrative returns for all shareholders?” Al-Khair
said today, describing Etisalat’s offer as “serious.”  The board of Mobile Telecommunications Co., generally known
as Zain, approved on Nov. 7 a request by Al-Khair to conduct due
diligence for the possible sale of a majority stake to Etisalat.  Abu Dhabi-based Etisalat said on Sept. 30 that it offered
1.7 Kuwaiti dinars ($6.1) a share for a controlling stake in
Zain. The shares to be acquired will represent 51 percent of
Zain’s total issued share capital and voting rights, Etisalat
said Nov. 3 after signing a preliminary agreement with Al-Khair.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fiona MacDonald  in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net 
 Dahlia Kholaif  in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  