-- Kiss Your Assets Goodbye When Certainty Reigns: Barry Ritholtz
-- B y   B a r r y   R i t h o l t z
-- 2010-11-10T02:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/kiss-your-assets-goodbye-if-certainty-reigns-commentary-by-barry-ritholtz.html
“The markets hate uncertainty.”  If you wandered anywhere near a television in advance of
the midterm elections, the Federal Open Market Committee meeting
or October’s  employment  report, that cliche was unavoidable. It
was the pundits’ preferred proverb.  Wall Street has a sweet tooth for such investing maxims.
They infect the trading community like influenza in December.
Repeat mindless dictums ad nauseam, and they soon become the
accepted wisdom.  The problem with these supposed truisms is they are no more
accurate than the flip of a coin. A closer look at this
uncertainty meme reveals it to be a false-ism -- one of those
emotionally appealing phrases that ping around trading desks.
The lack of evidence supporting their premise seems to matter
very little.  To recognize how meaningless these statements are, consider
the opposite: Could markets function without uncertainty? It
takes only a little thought to realize that markets actually
thrive on doubt, imperfect information and a lack of consensus.  Uncertainty drives the market’s price-discovery mechanism.
Investing requires there to be differences of opinion. When
there is broad agreement as to an asset’s fair value, trading
volume falls. Without any uncertainty, who would take the
opposite side of your trade?  History teaches that whenever the opposite occurs -- when
certainty overwhelms uncertainty -- the herd tends to be wrong.
In rare instances, when there is a near-total lack of
uncertainty in the market, the outcome is usually a spectacular
disaster.  When Certainty Rules  Recall the dot-com era, when everyone knew that profits no
longer mattered. Uncertainty seemed to be banished. An epic
 crash  followed.  After the Internet implosion, the opposite extreme was
operational: Profitable, debt-free tech companies were being
traded for less than book value. In a few rare instances, they
were being sold for less than cash on hand. Investors had become
certain that a dollar was worth only 75 cents.  There was little uncertainty heading into the March 2009
stock-market  lows . Almost everyone was sure the world was
falling into the abyss. In that massive and indiscriminate
selling, it seemed almost certain that no one was ever going to
buy another  house  or car, or send their kids to school, or for
that matter, clothe or feed them. How did the consensus work out
in that instance?  No Reward  When we discuss uncertainty, what we are really discussing
is risk. All unknown outcomes contain risk, and therein lies the
possibility of loss. Risk is inherent in the concept of
uncertainty. However, anyone looking for performance must
embrace risk, for without it, there can be no reward.  Uncertainty is what makes alpha, or market-beating gains,
possible. Smart traders know that uncertainty is where the money
is. No uncertainty, no risk; no risk, no possibility of
outperformance.  Since July, when the Era of Uncertainty began, the  Morgan
Stanley Cyclical Index  -- those businesses most closely tied to
this uncertain economy -- is up 26 percent.  Want some certainty? Go buy yourself Treasuries. You can
pick up a very lovely two-year bond yielding 0.41 percent. (Good
luck charging two and 20 on that!)  Track Record  The future, by definition, is unknowable. Investing
involves making our best guesses about the value of an asset at
some point after this moment in time. There will always be an
element of uncertainty involved. We can discount various
outcomes, engage in probabilistic analysis, but no one knows for
certain what tomorrow will bring.  Those who claim to know fail to understand the most basic
workings of markets. We need only consider the track record of
Wall Street’s prognosticators to know the truth in this
statement. As much as the future is uncertain, the most likely
outcomes are well understood.  As an example, consider the uncertainty of  tax rates . The
2001 and 2003 Bush tax cuts will either be eliminated, or they
won’t. Marginal rates will go up by three or four percentage
points, or not; capital gains rates might revert to 20 percent
from 15 percent, or not.  The impact on the economy isn’t all that difficult to
discern, even for Wall Street economists. Thus, uncertainty is
far less uncertain than you might have been led to believe if
you paid any attention to the chattering classes. Even the tax
on dividends -- which might rise from 15 percent at present to a
39.6 percent rate in the worst-case scenario -- is less
uncertain than it looks. Many dividend-paying stocks are held in
tax-free or tax-deferred accounts, or are owned by non-taxable
pension plans, foundations and trusts. This mutes the impact of
even this uncertain tax change.  Pundits may hate uncertainty -- it tends to makes them look
foolish -- but markets harbor no such bias. In fact, markets
thrive on uncertainty. It is their reason for being.  ( Barry Ritholtz , author of the book “Bailout Nation: How
Greed and Easy Money Corrupted Wall Street and Shook the World
Economy,” is the chief executive officer of Fusion IQ, and
blogs at The Big Picture. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Barry Ritholtz in New York at  britholtz@fusioninvest.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  