-- Kuwaiti Aston Martin Owner Proposes Terms on $5 Billion Debt Restructuring
-- B y   C a m i l l a   H a l l
-- 2010-11-10T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/kuwaiti-aston-martin-owner-proposes-terms-on-5-billion-debt-restructuring.html
Investment Dar Co. , the Kuwait-based
owner of half of Aston Martin Lagonda Ltd., proposed terms on
a restructuring plan to pay 1.4 billion dinars ($5 billion)
to creditors, according to a document obtained by Bloomberg.  The company offered to pay 350 million dinars of debt over
the first three years with 10 percent profit payments per annum,
according to the document dated Oct. 27. Of that 10 percent, 2
percent will be paid in cash, it said. The remaining 970 million
dinars will be paid over the following five years, it said.  Investment Dar started talks last year to restructure its
debt after the global financial crisis hit Kuwaiti banks and
investment firms, forcing the government to guarantee all local
bank deposits in 2008. Investment Dar, which missed a payment on
a $100 million Islamic bond in May last year, said in March it
started a process to seek legal protection under Kuwait’s
Financial Stability Law to implement a restructuring plan.  The new facility is in addition to previous terms agreed on
by 85 percent of creditors, the document said without giving
details of previous terms. The company plans to sell assets to
help pay back creditors, the document said.  Investment Dar won’t be liquidated while the company
restructures its liabilities, Chairman and Managing Director
 Adnan al-Musallam  said Aug. 9. Kuwait’s central bank declined to
comment when called and e-mailed by Bloomberg News. A company
spokesman also declined to comment when called and e-mailed by
Bloomberg News.  Investment Dar said July 28 an appeals court approved a
request by the central bank to extend by four months the date
for presenting a report on the company’s restructuring plan and
its financial condition.  The company, which had 1.03 billion dinars of debt
outstanding at the end of September 2008, presented a plan to
investors in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Camilla Hall  in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net  or  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  