-- Kuwaiti Lawmakers May Question Finance Minister Over Sale of Zain Stake
-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f   a n d   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2010-11-10T05:42:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/kuwaiti-lawmakers-may-question-finance-minister-over-sale-of-zain-stake.html
Kuwaiti opposition lawmakers said
they may question Finance Minister  Mustafa al-Shimali  over the
Kuwait Investment Authority’s handling of the sale of a stake in
Mobile Telecommunications Co., known as  Zain , to Etisalat.  The four-member Popular Action Bloc “has decided to put
its political responsibilities into action” and will question
al-Shimali if the investment authority, the country’s sovereign
wealth fund, approves the transaction, the bloc said in a
statement distributed to the press.  The Kuwait Investment Authority is the  largest shareholder 
in Zain, with a 24.6 percent stake.  Zain’s board approved on Nov. 7 a request by Al-Khair
National for Stocks and Real Estate Co. to conduct due diligence
for the possible sale of a majority stake to Etisalat, as
 Emirates Telecommuniations Corp.  is generally known. Al-Khair is
owned by Kuwait’s Kharafi Group, Zain’s second-largest
shareholder, which is leading the stake sale.  The Action Bloc will question al-Shimali, who heads the
investment authority, “if it is proved that the KIA’s
representative on Zain’s board agreed to open the company’s
books, with all its confidential information, to the rival
Etisalat, without Etisalat presenting a serious and detailed
offer,” according to the statement.  Abu Dhabi-based Etisalat said on Sept. 30 that it offered
1.7 Kuwaiti dinars ($6.1) a share for a controlling stake in
Zain. The shares to be acquired will represent 51 percent of
Zain’s total issued share capital and voting rights, Etisalat
said Nov. 3 after signing a preliminary agreement with Al-Khair.  On the basis of 4.3 billion Zain shares outstanding, the
stake is worth, at current exchange rates, about $12 billion.  The transaction is subject to several conditions, including
the disposal of Zain’s shareholding in Zain Saudi Arabia, Al-
Khair has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fiona MacDonald  in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net 
 Dahlia Kholaif  in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  