-- Neodymium, Dysprosium Rare Earths May Grow Fastest on Hybrid Cars, Hi-Tech
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-10T12:03:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/neodymium-dysprosium-rare-earths-may-grow-fastest-on-hybrid-cars-hi-tech.html
Neodymium and dysprosium may have
the biggest demand growth potential among rare earths as they
are used in magnets in BlackBerrys,  Toyota Motor Corp’s  hybrid
cars and windmills, industry executives said.  “The biggest growth areas for rare earth are magnets and
metal alloys,” Damien Krebs, metallurgy manager of Australia’s
 Greenland Minerals and Energy Ltd ., said in an interview in Hong
Kong. “Their growth in future is to be around 15 to 20 percent
per annum.” The company plans to start production at a mine in
Greenland in 2016.  Rare earths are 17 chemically similar elements, including
neodymium and dysprosium. Prices of neodymium oxide, which is
also used in mini hard drives in laptops and headphones in
Apple’s iPod, have surged four-fold to $80 a kilogram from
$19.12 in 2009, according to  Lynas Corp ., because of rising
demand and reduced supply from China.  “Currently, the most critical elements for the future are
likely to be neodymium and dysprosium,”  Robert Mackay ,
president and chief executive officer of Toronto-based Stans
Energy Corp., said in an e-mail in response to Bloomberg
questions. “The most threatened, according to our statistics
are europium, terbium, dysprosium, and yttrium. It is likely
that high-powered magnets will be a rare earth leader in terms
of future growth rates.”  Magnets mainly use the so-called middle and heavy group of
rare earths, including neodymium and dysprosium. Using iron-
based magnets in a mobile phone would make it much bigger,
“like a briefcase,” Krebs said.  “What we are interested in are those mining companies
which produce heavy rare earths, because heavy earths are used
for magnetic stuff, etc., which probably have the highest
growth,” Stefan Steinemann, portfolio manager of  REEFund , said
in an interview. The Switzerland-based fund started in July and
manages 20 million Swiss francs ($21 million) in mining stocks.  Prices, Supply  Surging prices are spurring companies including Sumitomo
Corp. to build rare-earth plants in Kazakhstan, Australia and
other countries as China, the source of more than 90 percent of
the world’s rare earths, in July reduced its second-half export
quota by 72 percent to ensure domestic supply and cut pollution.  There will be abundant supply of rare earths by 2015 after
new plants and mines are built. Still, some individual rare-
earth elements, such as neodymium and dysprosium, will remain in
shortage,  Dudley Kingsnorth , executive director of Industrial
Minerals Co. of Australia, said today. Europium and terbium will
also be in deficit, he said.  “Resources of dysprosium are limited,” said Yerzhan
Ishanov, deputy director of general affairs at Summit Atom Rare
Earth Co.,  Sumitomo’s  venture with Kazatomprom, Kazakhstan’s
state-owned nuclear company. “At the moment, the main supply is
China.”  Rare earths can also be used as catalysts in petroleum
cracking, polishing materials for liquid crystal displays and
glass that can prevent ultra-violet waves.  -- Helen Yuan . Editors:  Alan Soughley ,  Indranil Ghosh   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Yuan in Hong Kong at  hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  