-- Jerusalem Gives Preliminary Approval for Gilo Homes
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2010-11-29T16:25:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/netanyahu-rejects-obama-criticism-of-east-jerusalem-construction-planning.html
A Jerusalem planning committee gave
preliminary approval for 130 new homes in an area of the city
that Palestinians seek as part of the capital of an independent
state.  The property in Gilo in east Jerusalem, was originally
slated as a hotel and has been re-designated for residential
apartments, said Elie Isaacson, spokesman for Mayor  Nir Barkat .
Today’s decision will now go to a governmental panel for
approval.  Israeli proposals to build more than 1,000 new homes in
other areas of east Jerusalem drew criticism this month from
President  Barack Obama , who said they hurt efforts to revive
Israeli-Palestinian peace talks. Similar proposals overshadowed
a March visit to Israel by Vice President  Joe Biden .  The latest round of peace talks was initiated at a White
House ceremony on Sept. 1 and came to a halt on Sept. 26, when a
partial 10-month Israeli construction freeze in West Bank
settlements ended.  Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  has said he
will not negotiate further unless Israel stops all construction
in the West Bank and east Jerusalem.  Chief Palestinian negotiator  Saeb Erakat  said in an e-
mailed statement today that the building in Gilo and other east
Jerusalem areas “represents an existential threat to the two-
state solution.”  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  has repeatedly
rejected criticism of east Jerusalem construction. Israel
captured the area from Jordan in the 1967 Middle East war and
later annexed it in a move never internationally recognized.  “Israel and the Jerusalem municipality have not changed
their position on building in Jerusalem for the past 40 years
and that is that there is no building freeze in the city,” the
municipality said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 