-- New York, Chicago Accused of Title IX Sports Discrimination in High School
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2010-11-10T21:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/new-york-chicago-among-school-districts-accused-of-title-ix-sports-breach.html
New York, Chicago and 10 other U.S.
school districts failed to provide high school girls with
opportunities to play sports in violation of federal law, the
 National Women’s Law Center  said.  The school systems, which also include Houston, violated
 Title IX  by denying girls the same access to sports as boys, the
organization said in a statement today. The group filed
administrative complaints that are based on the schools’ data
and show “pervasive and growing inequalities,” said  Marcia Greenberger , co-president of the center.  “These 12 school districts are the tip of the iceberg,”
Greenberger said in a statement. “Nationwide, only 41 percent
of all high school athletes are girls, even though they make up
half the student population. That means schools are giving girls
1.3 million fewer opportunities than boys to play sports
nationwide.”  New York City Public Schools said in a statement that the
complaint was under review, and that girls’ teams recently had
been added in lacrosse, golf and Double Dutch jump rope.  Houston will “work very closely” with the Office of Civil
Rights to review the allegations, Marmion Dambrimo, Houston
Independent School District athletic director, said in a
telephone interview.  “If the district is found to be out of compliance we will
work with OCR to bring our district into compliance,” Dambrino
said.  Monique Bond at the Chicago Public Schools communications
office declined to comment immediately, saying the complaint was
being reviewed by her agency’s legal department.  The center filed complaints with the U.S. Department of
Education’s Office for Civil Rights in the districts, outlining
the lack of sports opportunities for girls and calling on the
organization to investigate.  The districts have high schools with double-digit gaps
between the percentage of students who are girls and the
percentage of athletes who are girls, the law center said, while
many sports offered by state high school athletic associations
for girls aren’t available in those districts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Kuriloff  in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net ;
 Eben Novy-Williams  in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 