-- New York Universities Propose Changing Law as State Debt Limit Closes In
-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 2010-11-10T16:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/new-york-state-university-system-wants-law-change-as-debt-limit-closes-in.html
As  New York , the second-largest
borrower among U.S. states, approaches its legal debt limit,
officials at its university system  suggested  revising the law to
provide more room for bond sales.  About $900 million of bonds sold to finance dormitories
shouldn’t be subject to the limit because they are repaid by
revenue from students, said Monica Rimai, chief operating
officer for the 64-campus system. She spoke at a Division of
Budget  hearing  in Albany yesterday about next year’s spending
plans.  “If you no longer counted the residential-hall debt
against the cap, that would allow the state to borrow $900
million for other programs,” said Philip Wood, the system’s
vice chancellor for capital facilities. Some of that money could
go to universities, he said.  The state’s per-person debt of $2,925 is three times the
national average and second only to New Jersey among the 10
largest states by population, according to a  report  issued in
March by Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli . New York plans to sell
about $5.4 billion of bonds in the year ending March 31, 2011,
while retiring about $3.2 billion, according to the Division of
Budget’s  capital plan .  New York limits state-supported debt issued after April 1,
2000, to 4 percent of residents’ annual personal income, a limit
the state is approaching, according to the  plan .  Near the Ceiling  “The available room under the debt-outstanding cap is
expected to decline from $4.2 billion in 2010-11 to only $1.8
billion in 2012-13,”  according  to the mid-year budget update
published Nov. 1.  Dormitory bonds are backed by state appropriations,
according to Division of Budget documents. They are  rated  AA-,
the fourth-highest grade, by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings. Those companies rate the state’s general obligation
bonds one level higher, at AA.  With 48 percent of the university system’s buildings in
fair or poor condition, it needs more than the $943 million
allotted this year for capital projects for educational
facilities and hospitals, Wood said. At the hearing, he asked
for $1.08 billion in the year that begins April 1, up from the
$912 million allocated in the five-year plan prepared by the
Division of Budget.  Dormitory revenue has never fallen short of the amounts
needed to pay bond interest and principal, Rimai said in an
interview after the hearing.  Addicted to Debt  The 2000 law included loopholes that helped keep the state
“addicted to unaffordable borrowing,” DiNapoli  said  in March.
The 2000 law excluded about $20.5 billion of debt outstanding at
that time and $17 billion of new debt not subject to the cap
“but whose repayment comes from state resources,” according to
the  report.   About $9.8 billion of the $60.4 billion of state-backed
debt is from bonds sold to finance previous years’ deficits,
evading the 2000 law’s requirement that borrowing be used to
finance capital projects, according to the report.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  