-- New Jersey Voters Back Christie Tunnel Kill, Want New York Help, Poll Says
-- B y   S t a c i e   S e r v e t a h
-- 2010-11-10T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/new-jersey-supports-christie-on-canceling-planned-rail-tunnel-poll-shows.html
A majority of  New Jersey  voters
support Governor  Chris Christie ’s decision to cancel a commuter-
rail tunnel under the Hudson River, and most want New York to
share in the financing if the project is revived, a poll found.  The governor made the right move, according to 53 percent
of respondents in a  Quinnipiac University  poll released today.
The first-term Republican decided to stop work on the 8.8-mile
(14-kilometer) tunnel on Oct. 27. Among respondents who commute
to New York City, half supported halting the project.  Christie, 48, said his state’s taxpayers couldn’t afford as
much as $5 billion in potential overruns on the $8.7 billion
initial price. The state was to pay $2.7 billion plus overruns,
while the U.S. and the Port Authority of New York & New Jersey
were each obligated for $3 billion. New York should share in the
cost if the project resumes, 90 percent of those surveyed said.  “Garden State voters say if they bring that Hudson River
tunnel project back to life, New York will have to put some
money on the table,”  Maurice Carroll , director of Quinnipiac’s
polling institute in Hamden, Connecticut, said in a statement.  New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said last month that while
he supports a tunnel, the city can’t help pay for one.  “This is not something the city can put money into,” he
said Oct. 5 at a City Hall news briefing. The mayor is founder
and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Project Over  While the tunnel project “is over,” the state will
“continue to explore solutions to the trans-Hudson
transportation challenge,”  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for
Christie, said Nov. 8 by e-mail.  New Jerseyans were split on whether the state should spend
more money on highways or mass transit, Quinnipiac said. New
York City commuters backed mass-transit spending over highways,
63 percent to 29 percent, the poll said.  Sixty-three percent of respondents oppose raising gasoline
taxes to help pay for road work and more mass transit,
Quinnipiac said.  Urban voters opposed Christie’s tunnel block, 52 percent to
42 percent, while suburban respondents supported it, 49 percent
to 44 percent, the poll said.  Quinnipiac surveyed 1,362 New Jersey voters from Nov. 3-8.
The poll has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.7 percentage
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stacie Servetah  at 
 sbabula@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 