-- New Zealand House Prices Fall, Manufacturing Slows Adding to Rate Pause
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-11-11T00:37:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/new-zealand-house-prices-fall-a-second-month-sales-weakest-since-january.html
New Zealand  house prices  fell for a
second month in October and sales dropped to the lowest level
since January, adding to signs of a sluggish economic recovery.  Prices declined 0.9 percent from September, when they
slipped 0.3 percent, according to an index published today by
the Real Estate Institute of New Zealand. House  sales  fell 36
percent from a year earlier to 3,903.  Weak demand for housing, sluggish retail sales and an
extended contraction of manufacturing add to the case for
central bank Governor  Alan Bollard  to keep the benchmark
interest rate unchanged until next year. The economic recovery
has been “tepid” and household spending remains constrained,
he said yesterday in a twice-yearly report.  “If current housing market weakness persists, it is likely
to continue weighing on household spending, with the implication
that the Reserve Bank may leave the cash rate on hold for longer
than the first few months of 2011,” said  Mark Smith , an
economist at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in Wellington.  The Reserve Bank of New Zealand kept the  cash rate  at 3
percent for a second month on Oct. 28. All 14 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News expect Bollard will leave the cash
rate unchanged until March.  Spending, Manufacturing  Spending on credit and debit cards, excluding fuel, was
unchanged in October, according to a government report on Nov. 9.  Manufacturing contracted for a third month in October,
according to an  index  published today by Bank of New Zealand Ltd.
and Business New Zealand, a Wellington-based employer group.  “Ongoing sluggishness in domestic demand is likely one
factor behind the weakening production picture,” said  Doug Steel , an economist at Bank of New Zealand.  Steel & Tube Holdings Ltd. , a New Zealand distributor of
roofing iron and reinforcing to the construction industry, today
said demand was subdued.  The company has seen a “significant” drop in demand for
structural steel used by commercial builders, which may last for
the remainder of the year ending June 30, Chief Executive
Officer  Dave Taylor  told an annual meeting in Wellington today.
Notes of his speech were sent to the stock exchange.  Today’s housing report showed the house price index fell
3.5 percent from the year-earlier month. The Auckland-based Real
 Estate Institute ’s alternative measure of median prices fell 1.4
percent from a year earlier to NZ$350,000.  The median time to sell a house fell to 41 days from 43
days in September, and rose from 31 days in October last year,
the report showed.  There may be improvement in house sales in November,
Institute spokesman Peter Thompson said in an e-mailed statement.  “People planning to change houses appear to have held back
on listing their current home until they see how the market is
moving,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  