-- News Corp. Rivals Questioned by EU Regulators on BSkyB Advertising, Access
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2010-11-11T09:50:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/news-corp-rivals-questioned-by-eu-regulators-on-bskyb-advertising-access.html
European regulators asked television
companies whether  News Corp.’s  proposed 7.8 billion-pound ($12.6
billion) acquisition of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc  would
limit their access to viewers and raise advertising prices.  Companies that produce television channels were asked in a
questionnaire from European Union antitrust regulators obtained
by Bloomberg News “to what extent does your company depend on
BSkyB in the U.K. and Ireland to gain access to viewers.”  Business Secretary  Vince Cable  is separately reviewing
whether the takeover of Britain’s largest pay-TV operator by the
owner of four of the biggest-selling U.K. newspapers would give
too much media control to  Rupert Murdoch , News Corp.’s chairman
and chief executive officer.  The EU document didn’t include questions about the impact
of the merger on the news media. U.K. newspapers, the British
Broadcasting Corp. and phone company BT Group Plc signed a joint
letter to Cable calling for the bid to be challenged by the U.K.
government.  “The question of the news media is the real concern” as
New York based-News Corp. could use cash “from BSkyB to feed
their newspapers like the Times,” said  Alexander Wisch , an
analyst at Standard & Poor’s Equity Research in London.  Cameron’s Quandary  The objection by some of BSkyB’s rivals may put the
coalition government of Prime Minister  David Cameron  in a
quandary. News Corp. owns Britain’s biggest tabloid, the Sun,
which backed the Conservative party of Prime Minister  David Cameron  in Britain’s general election. It also owns the Times
and Sunday Times newspapers.  Amelia Torres , a spokeswoman for the European Commission,
declined to comment on the questionnaire.  Alice Macandrew , a
spokeswoman for News Corp. declined to comment.  Robert Fraser , a
spokesman for Isleworth, England-based BSkyB also declined to
comment.  BSkyB shares were unchanged at 727 pence as of 9:46 a.m. in
London trading.  The European Commission has set a deadline of Dec. 8 to
review News Corp.’s bid for the 61 percent of BSkyB it doesn’t
already own.  The European Commission asked whether BSkyB or News Corp.,
which also owns  The Wall Street Journal  and the Twentieth
Century Fox film studio, might divert advertising spending away
from rivals to the merged company. It asked whether the deal
“will have any significant effect on the merged entity’s
advertising on those platforms” and whether it would affect
prices.  Market Conditions  Television companies were also asked if they thought the
conditions for broadcasting their channels on BSkyB was “likely
to change post-merger.”  The regulators are examining whether News Corp would have
incentives to block channels from BSkyB after a merger, said
 Simon Holmes , a competition lawyer at SJ Berwin LLP in London.  The U.K.’s antitrust regulator, the Office of Fair Trading,
may try to wrest control of the case from Brussels by citing
national competition concerns that outweigh those of Europe. The
watchdog has until Nov. 26 to seek referral of the case back to
Britain.  BSkyB said Nov. 8 that it signed up 10 million pay-TV
customers. It offers more than 240 channels as part of a basic
television package, according to the company’s website.  BSkyB was formed in 1990 with the merger of Murdoch’s Sky
Television and British Satellite Broadcasting. Buying exclusive
live broadcasting rights in 1992 to popular events such as the
Premier League, England’s top soccer league, helped it win
clients. It added offerings such as the History Channel and
Disney Channel in 1995.  The EU didn’t specifically ask about sports rights in the
questionnaire.  In June, News Corp. and BSkyB failed to agree on a price
for the deal and said they would focus on gaining regulatory
approval first.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 