-- NHL All-Star Squads Will Be Drafted By Team Captains, `Road Hockey' Style
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2010-11-10T19:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/nhl-all-star-squads-will-be-drafted-by-team-captains-road-hockey-style.html
The National Hockey League All-Star
rosters will be picked by the two captains this season,
abandoning the conference vs. conference format instituted in
2003.  The league and the NHL Players’ Association announced the
changes, which will take effect for the 2011 All-Star weekend on
Jan. 29-30 in Raleigh, North Carolina. After the pool of 42 All-
Stars is chosen -- six by fans and 36 by the league’s Hockey
Operations Department -- two captains will pick teams in a
televised draft on Jan. 28.  “The goal here was to give the game back to the players,”
 Brendan Shanahan , the NHL’s vice president for hockey and
business development, said in a conference call. “So often at
the end of practice players are picking teams, or even going
back to their youths playing road hockey, it’s what they’ve done
and what they’re used to.”  The new system will reinvigorate the All-Star weekend and
make it more appealing to fans as well as players, said
Shanahan, a former forward for the New York Rangers who played
in eight All-Star games in his 22-year career.  The first selection in the All-Star draft will be decided
by coin flip and picks will alternate from there. Each captain,
elected by fellow players, will be required to select three
goaltenders, six defensemen and 12 forwards.  Fan voting runs from Nov. 15 to Jan. 3. The top six players
voted by the fans will receive an invitation to the game and the
remaining 36 All-Stars will be selected by the league with the
intention of selecting at least one from each team.  The rookie-sophomore game, traditionally held between the
game’s best young stars, won’t be played. After choosing their
rosters, the two captains will then pick from among 12 rookies
for the SuperSkills competition, in which players compete in six
events such as fastest skater and accuracy shooting.  Details such as what the teams will be called and the
structure of the draft show itself, are yet to be finished, said
 Mike Ouellet , the NHLPA’s chief of business affairs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eben Novy-Williams  in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 