-- Nigerian Labor Unions Begin Strike on Minimum Wage as Jonathan Seeks Deal
-- B y   P a u l   O k o l o   a n d   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2010-11-10T11:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/nigerian-labor-unions-begin-strike-on-minimum-wage-as-jonathan-seeks-deal.html
Nigerian labor unions began a
general strike to press the government to raise the minimum
wage, as President  Goodluck Jonathan  tried to halt the walkout.  “The strike’s on,”  John Odah , secretary general of the
Nigeria  Labour Congress , an umbrella of unions, said in a phone
interview today from Abuja, the capital.  The action comes at the end of a 14-day notice period that
began on Oct. 27 when the congress threatened a warning strike
if the government failed to pass higher-pay legislation. The
unions demand a minimum monthly wage of 52,000 naira ($346),
from the current 9,500 naira. A government committee recommended
an increase to 18,000 naira, BusinessDay reported in July.  “In the overriding interest of the nation, President
Jonathan urges labor leaders, once again, to embrace continued
dialogue on the issue,” Ima Niboro, the presidential spokesman,
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Odah said the congress
will consider Jonathan’s appeal at an emergency meeting today.  Banks and schools were open in Abuja today, though traffic
in the city was below the usual level. Banks, schools and many
businesses were closed in the commercial capital, Lagos, where
the stock market was trading.  Nigerian oil industry workers will participate in the
strike, though oil facilities will maintain output and the
distribution of refined products will be unhindered, said
 Babatunde Ogun,  president of the Petroleum and Natural Gas
Senior Staff Association of Nigeria.  “Because of the critical importance of oil to the nation’s
economy, we’ve decided to allow production to be sustained,”
Ogun said in an interview today from Lagos.  Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country, is the continent’s
biggest oil producer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Okolo  in Abuja at 
 pokolo@bloomberg.net ;
 Elisha Bala-Gbogbo  in Abuja at
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 