-- Nokia's Share Slips as Unbranded Phonemakers, Apple Gain Ground
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2010-11-10T12:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/nokia-s-market-share-slips-below-30-as-smaller-vendors-grow-gartner-says.html
Nokia Oyj ’s mobile-phone market
share tumbled to its lowest ever as unbranded Chinese device
makers gained ground on the low-end, while Apple Inc.’s iPhones
advanced in smartphones, researcher  Gartner Inc.  said.  Gains by so-called “white-box” vendors who sell small
runs of cheap phones prompted Gartner to raise its forecast for
full-year industry growth to 30 percent from 13 to 15 percent
earlier,  Carolina Milanesi , an analyst with Gartner’s Egham,
U.K. unit, said in an interview.  “Nokia feels the heat most because these guys are
competing directly with them in emerging markets on the low
end,” Milanesi said. “Nokia’s performance didn’t get worse,
it’s that the market is much larger so the share comes down.”  The Finnish company’s share of unit sales to end users was
28.2 percent, down from 36.7 percent a year ago, the first time
since the second quarter of 2004 that it dipped below 30
percent, Milanesi said. Market shares of  Samsung Electronics
Ltd.  and LG Electronics Inc. also shrank as they retained their
second and third rankings, the Stamford, Connecticut-based
researcher said.  Apple  rose to fourth place, edging out  Research In Motion
Ltd. , Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications Ltd., and Motorola
Inc. as smartphone sales nearly doubled, reaching 19.3 percent
of all handset sales.  Taiwan’s  HTC Corp.  and China’s ZTE Corp. and Huawei
Technologies Co. rounded out the top 10 vendors. The “others”
category of phonemakers outside the top 10 expanded to 33
percent of the market.  Emerging Markets Sales  White-box vendors now sell through market stalls and mom-
and-pop retailers in India, Russia, the Middle East and Africa
and Latin America, where the operators don’t own the channel,
Milanesi said.  “It’s not just an increase in connection numbers, because
there our forecast has been in line, it’s more people who were
forced before to buy a secondhand phone -- now they can buy a
brand-new phone,” she said, likening the growth of white-box
vendors to the way IKEA stores made new furniture inexpensive.  Global sales of all models of mobile phones to end users
gained 35 percent in the third quarter to 417 million units,
Gartner said. Smartphones sold 80.5 million units.  Symbian, Nokia’s main smartphone system, declined to 36.6
percent of unit sales while  Google Inc. ’s Android gained to 25.5
percent from 3.5 percent a year ago. As much as 80 percent of
smartphone sales at  Verizon Wireless  were Android, which is also
used on tablets, Gartner said. The researchers expect industry
tablet sales to reach 54.8 million units next year.  Smartphones  Nokia kept its lead among smartphone brands with a 33.7
percent share compared with 39.3 percent last year, Milanesi
said. Rival Android is used in handsets from more than a dozen
vendors including Samsung, Sony Ericsson, Motorola and HTC.  ZTE, the world’s ninth largest handset vendor, has
introduced an Android phone costing less than 100 pounds ($160)
on an Orange prepaid plan in the U.K., Gartner said.  “We expect to see a good Android experience next year at
the 200 to 250 euros price point because the technology cost is
coming down,” Milanesi said. Low-cost Android devices may not
give the same pleasure as expensive ones because of slower
processors and inferior screens, she said.  Following are tables of total mobile-phone and smartphone
sales, as well as market shares:  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 