-- Nord Stream Taps Three Advisers for 2.5 Billion Euros of Loans
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2010-11-10T09:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/nord-stream-taps-three-advisers-for-2-5-billion-euros-of-loans.html
Nord Stream AG hired three banks to
advise it on 2.5 billion euros ($3.4 billion) of loans to ship
Russian gas under the Baltic Sea to Germany.  The Nord Stream venture, led by Russia’s  OAO Gazprom  gas-
export monopoly, hired Commerzbank AG, Societe Generale SA and
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc as advisers for the financing,
 Frank Dudley , a Nord Stream spokesman in Zug, Switzerland,
said today by e-mail.  The financing will include 16-year borrowings backed by
export credit agencies and 10-year portions from commercial
lenders, he said.  The venture is building the first 27.5 billion-cubic-meter-
a-year pipeline, which will start delivering Russian gas to the
European Union bypassing transit states such as Ukraine next
year. The project partners plan to double capacity by adding the
second line of the same capacity a year later.  Nord Stream raised 3.9 billion euros from 26 banks in March
for the first phase of the project, which backed construction
of the first of two lines running side by side. The loans pay
interest at between 160 basis points and 450 basis points more
than the euro interbank offered rate, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Banks offered 60 percent more loans than the
company sought.  Nord Stream last month issued banks a request for proposals
for financing the second phase of the project, aiming to
conclude the contracts by the end of 2010.  Gazprom owns 51 percent of Nord Stream, while Germany’s
Wintershall Holding AG and E.ON Ruhrgas AG hold 15.5 percent
each, and Nederlandse Gasunie NV and GDF Suez SA have 9 percent
each.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patricia Kuo  in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net 
 Anna Shiryaevskaya  in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net 
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  