-- North Korea Exports $100 Million of Arms Each Year in Breach of Sanctions
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-11-10T22:58:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/north-korea-exports-100-million-of-arms-each-year-in-breach-of-sanctions.html
North Korea exports $100 million in
weapons and missiles each year in violation of  United Nations 
sanctions, according to a UN expert panel’s report that said
Iran and Syria may be among countries that received missiles.  The 75-page report, released today, also cited evidence
compiled by the  International Atomic Energy Agency , governments
and news reports that North Korea is involved in “nuclear and
ballistic missile related activities in certain other countries
including Iran, Syria and Myanmar.”  The report was prepared by a panel charged by the UN
 Security Council  with monitoring the enforcement of sanctions
intended to block North Korea’s development of nuclear weapons
and ballistic missiles. The sanctions prohibit North Korea from
exporting or importing weapons and nuclear or missile
technology.  The panel concluded that although there are gaps in
enforcement, UN sanctions are “having the intended impact” and
have “significantly constrained” North Korea’s arms sales.  The panel “reviewed government issued reports” indicating
that North Korea had assisted in the design and construction of
Syria’s Dair Alzour nuclear reactor, which was destroyed by an
Israeli air attack in 2007.  The report said the panel is investigating “suspicious”
activity in Myanmar by the sanctioned North Korean company
Namchongang Trading Corp., including possible sale of a
magnetometer, which can be used in a nuclear centrifuge or
missile guidance system.  The panel of experts includes representatives of the U.S.,
the U.K., China, France, Japan, Russia and South Korea. China
had resisted release of the report since May.  Methods of Concealment  North Korea uses a variety of methods and devices to
conceal its activities, the report said.  It cited “false description and mislabeling of the content
of the containers, falsification of the manifest covering the
shipment, alteration and falsification of the information
concerning the original consignor and ultimate consignee and use
of multiple layers or intermediaries, shell companies and
financial institutions.”  The report described a “broad range of techniques to mask
its financial transactions, including the use of overseas
entities, shell companies, informal transfer mechanisms, cash
couriers and barter arrangements”  Numbers Understated  The Security Council’s imposition of a travel ban and asset
freezes on eight entities and five individuals “seriously
understate the number of known entities and individuals engaged
in proscribed activities and are inadequate to the task of
effective inhibiting” banned trade, the report said.  As an example, the panel reported that Green Pine
Associated replaced the sanctioned Korea Mining Development
Trading Corp. and was “now responsible for about half” of
North Korea’s arms exports.  Representative  Ileana Ros-Lehtinen  of Florida, who is in
line to be chairwoman of the Foreign Affairs Committee after
Republicans take control of the U.S. House in January, said in a
statement that the report should be a “wake-up call” for the
U.S. and its allies.  “It is clear that North Korea has continued to escalate
its aggressive actions,” she said.  “Instead of continuing its failed strategy of seeking to
engage the regime in endless negotiation,” she said, President
 Barack Obama ’s administration “must ratchet up pressure” on
North Korea by seeking support for new UN sanctions from leaders
at a Group of 20 summit starting tomorrow in Seoul.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  