-- Norway Caps Junk-Graded Debt as Wealth Funds Grow More Cautious
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2010-11-11T13:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/norway-caps-junk-graded-debt-investment-as-wealth-funds-grow-more-cautious.html
Norway’s government will require the
country’s $520 billion oil fund to limit investments in junk-
rated debt amid growing concern peripheral Europe’s fiscal
crisis may be escalating.  The Government Pension Fund Global, the world’s second-
biggest sovereign wealth fund, will next year be expected to try
to cap its holdings of non-investment grade debt at 3 percent of
its total fixed-income portfolio, said  Bunny Nooryani , a
spokeswoman at  Norges Bank Investment Management , which runs the
fund, in an e-mailed reply to questions. It will be the first
time the Finance Ministry imposes such a cap, she said.  “It’s an uncertain outlook and sovereign wealth funds need
to be cautious,” said  Nigel Rendell , London-based senior
emerging markets strategist at Royal Bank of Canada Europe Ltd.,
in an e-mailed reply to questions. “Euro concerns are returning
and markets have risen strongly over recent months.”  Yields on Irish, Greek, Spanish and Portuguese debt have
soared this month on concern the euro region may be unable to
solve its worst debt crisis since the single currency was
created more than a decade ago. Russia’s Finance Ministry on Nov.
3 told its two wealth funds to exclude Irish and Spanish debt
from their bond holdings. Norway’s oil fund the following day
said Spanish debt was becoming “less attractive.”  There may be “some consolidation going into the final
weeks of the year,” Rendell said. “Debt spreads have narrowed
significantly and there must be some debate about how much
tighter they can go.”  Euro Decline  Concerns that Europe’s debt crisis may intensify prompted
declines in the region’s single currency. The euro fell against
14 of its 16 most-traded peers, approaching the lowest in more
than a month against the dollar. Europe’s single currency traded
at $1.3701 at 12:40 p.m. in London.  Investors are also responding to demands by some European
leaders that creditors foot part of the bill of bailouts. French
Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said investors must share the
cost of sovereign debt restructurings, backing a German call
that helped send yields on Irish and Portuguese bonds to record
highs.  “All stakeholders must participate in the gains and losses
of any particular situation,” Lagarde said during an interview
yesterday in Paris for Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move”
with  Francine Lacqua .  Junk Breakdown  Norway’s oil fund, which had 2.7 percent of its total debt
holdings invested in junk-graded and un-rated fixed-income
assets at the end of the third quarter, said in August it was
buying up junk-rated Greek debt, signaling it didn’t expect the
bailout-reliant euro nation to default.  The fund’s junk and un-rated debt holdings rose 10.4
percent in the first nine months of the year to 32.5 billion
kroner ($5.5 billion), while remaining at about 2.7 percent of
the total. Of that, 18.9 billion kroner was in securitized debt,
6.95 billion kroner was in corporate bonds, 5.6 billion kroner
was in government and government-related debt and 588 million
kroner was in inflation-linked bonds, the investor’s  third-
quarter report  shows.  Chief Executive Officer  Yngve Slyngstad  said in a Nov. 4
interview that while the fund’s view on Spanish debt had become
more positive at the start of July, price developments since
then had made Spanish debt less attractive.  Irish 10-year securities plunged for a 13th day. Ten-year
Portuguese yields rose 6 basis points to 7.24 percent at 12.21
p.m. in London. That widened the yield premium over benchmark
German bunds to as much as 484 basis points, a record, according
to Bloomberg generic data. Greek and Spanish bonds also fell.
Yields move inversely to bond prices.  ‘Increased Worries’  “The high-yield market has been very ‘on or off’ during
the last six months on the back of PIIGS worries so timing has
been very important,” said  Fabian Qvist , head of flow credit
sales and trading at Oslo-based Arctic Securities, in an e-
mailed reply to questions. “The increased worries we are seeing
in the market place surrounding Ireland today and the resulting
spread widening in the European high yield indices clearly
depicts this phenomenon.”  The cap on junk-graded debt will back up other measures
designed to curb risk-taking at the fund, the Finance Ministry
said. As of Jan. 1, the fund will also be required to tighten
the range by which it can deviate from the benchmark it tracks.
The scope for management, measured as an estimated tracking
error, will be cut to 1 percentage point from 1.5 percentage
points.  Credit Risk  “Credit risk is a risk that by experience is not
necessarily captured well in measures of expected tracking
error,” said Paal Haugerud, deputy director general at the
Finance Ministry’s asset management department, in an e-mailed
reply to questions. That suggests “that one should supplement
with other measures to limit risks in bond investments.”  Placing a limit on non-investment grade bonds “is an
appropriate supplement to the other requirements for management,
measurement and control of risk in the Fund,” Haugerud said.  The Norwegian fund, Europe’s biggest equity investor, is
built from oil and gas revenue and invests abroad to avoid
overheating the domestic economy. It allocates 60 percent to
stocks, 35 percent to bonds and 5 percent in property. Only Abu
Dhabi has a larger fund, according to the Sovereign Wealth Fund
Institute in California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Josiane Kremer  in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  