-- Norwegian Insurer Gjensidige Is Said to Start $1.5 Billion IPO This Week
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u ,   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 2010-11-10T16:42:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/norway-s-gjensidige-said-to-start-1-5-billion-initial-offering-this-week.html
Gjensidige Forsikring ASA, Norway’s
largest property and casualty insurer, plans to start canvassing
investor interest in its initial public offering as soon as this
week, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The IPO may raise more than $1.5 billion, said one of the
people, who declined to be identified before an official
announcement. The offering would be the country’s biggest since
at least 2006, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The customer-owned insurer proposed in March that it become
a publicly traded company, following legislation in Norway that
allows such firms to organize clients’ ownership into financial
foundations. The company plans to sell a stake of as much as
40 percent, Chief Financial Officer Tor Loennum said on Aug. 19.  Oeystein Thoresen, a spokesman for Gjensidige, declined to
comment. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is sole global coordinator for
the IPO and joint bookrunner with Bank of America Corp., one of
the people said.  DnB NOR ASA , Pareto Securities and Keefe,
Bruyette & Woods Inc. are helping to manage the offering, said
the person.  The Norwegian insurer has been seeking to boost revenue by
expanding outside its home country. The company agreed in March
to buy Nykredit Realkredit A/S’s non-life insurance division for
2.5 billion kroner ($430 million) to add 230,000 clients in
Denmark, its seventh takeover outside Norway since 2006. It also
bought  Citigroup Inc. ’s consumer-finance operations in Norway
last year and purchased Lithuania’s RESO Europa in 2008 to
expand its market share in the Baltics.  Gjensidige’s third-quarter pretax profit rose to
1.3 billion kroner from 1.2 billion kroner a year earlier,
according to the company.  Statoil Fuel & Retail ASA, the gas station and fuel unit of
oil and gas producer Statoil ASA, raised $920 million in Oslo’s
biggest IPO this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net .
 Elisa Martinuzzi  at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 