-- Loans in Longest Rally Since April on Fed’s QE2: Credit Markets
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2010-11-10T17:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/loans-in-longest-rally-since-april-as-fed-encourages-risk-credit-markets.html
Leveraged-loan  prices  are staging
their longest rally since before Europe’s sovereign debt crisis
roiled markets in April, enabling companies from Petco Animal
Supplies Inc. to Atlantic Broadband Finance LLC to borrow at the
lowest costs in five months.  The  S&P/LSTA US Leveraged Loan 100 Index  rose 0.07 cent to
92.72 cents on the dollar, extending gains to 13 days as it
approaches the 2010 high of 92.9 cents recorded April 26. Petco,
the San Diego-based pet products retailer, met lenders yesterday
for a $1.1 billion loan, with $700 million intended for a
dividend to owners Leonard Green & Partners LP and TPG Capital.  Two consecutive monthly gains in the secondary loan market
are helping private-equity firms and corporate borrowers issue
debt to refinance borrowings, fund payouts and complete
leveraged buyouts. Prices of high-yield, high-risk loans jumped
the most since March this week after the Federal Reserve said
Nov. 3 that it will inject more money into the economy in an
effort to support growth.  “Fed policy is accommodating for the credit markets
overall,” said  Bill Hughes , head of leveraged syndicate for the
Americas at Citigroup Inc. in New York. “Investors are
realizing that with an accommodative policy in place you’re
unlikely to see a near-term run up in rates, so you’re taking
more risk to get yield.”  Borrowing costs in the loan market are at the lowest since
May, according to Standard & Poor’s Leveraged Commentary and
Data. The S&P/LSTA 100 Index rallied for 19 days to a 2010 high
of 92.9 cents on the dollar on April 16. It then fell before
peaking again at the same level 10 days later. The 0.7 cent
increase in prices on Nov. 8 is the biggest daily move since
March 29.  HCA Dividend  Speculative-grade companies, rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by S&P, have raised $295.5 billion in
loans this year, 74 percent more than all of 2009 and about $10
billion more than total issuance two years ago, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Elsewhere in credit markets, HCA Inc., the hospital chain
acquired four years ago in a $33 billion leveraged buyout, sold
bonds to fund a dividend to its equity owners.  JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  may sell five year notes in a benchmark offering.  HCA , based in Nashville, Tennessee, will use proceeds from
the sale of the 10.5-year notes to help pay for a dividend to
owners including KKR & Co., Bain Capital LLC and Bank of America
Corp. The 7.75 percent debt due in May 2021 yields 506 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Credit-Default Swaps  JPMorgan may issue debt as soon as today, according to a
person familiar with the transaction who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set. Benchmark sales are
typically at least $500 million.  The cost of protecting bonds from default in the U.S.
climbed for a third day to a one-week high amid concerns over
Ireland’s debt and signs China is stepping up efforts to cool
inflation.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 1.03 basis points to a
mid-price of 91.4 basis points as of 12:11 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt. The index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates.  European Bonds  In Europe,  ArcelorMittal , the world’s largest steelmaker,
is offering investors about half the yield it paid in May 2009
to sell 1 billion euros ($1.4 billion) of bonds.  The new seven-year notes will be priced at 232 basis points
more than the benchmark mid-swap rate, said two people with
knowledge of the sale, equivalent to a yield of about 4.77
percent. The Luxembourg-based company issued the same amount of
similar-maturity notes in May 2009 priced at 9.5 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Despite concerns of European sovereign debt, it’s still a
great time for companies to come to the market,” said  Suki Mann , a credit strategist in London at Societe Generale SA.  Caja Madrid, Spain’s second-largest savings bank, plans to
swap as much as 17 billion euros of bonds for new longer-dated
debt. The lender will exchange government-guaranteed securities,
senior unsecured notes and covered bonds due in 2012 and 2013,
said two people with knowledge of the transaction.  Emerging Markets  In emerging markets, the extra yield investors demand to
own bonds rather than government debt was unchanged at 230 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. index data. After
rising 7 basis points on Nov. 8, spreads are 1 basis point above
the level from Nov. 5, which was the narrowest since December
2007.  China’s convertible debt is outperforming the rest of the
bond market, rising 11 percent this quarter, as stocks rally and
the yuan strengthens, according to Standard & Poor’s.  The  S&P China Convertible Bond Index  gained 2.9 percent
this month and 8.3 percent in October, the most in a year, as
benchmarks tracking conventional notes declined since the end of
September and the Shanghai Composite Index of shares surged 18
percent. The yuan jumped yesterday by the most since a dollar
peg ended in July 2005 on speculation faster appreciation will
be tolerated before Group of 20 leaders meet this week in Seoul.  Fed policymakers said at the end of their two-day meeting
last week that they plan to buy $600 billion of Treasuries in a
second round of quantitative easing that’s part of an effort to
avert deflation and reduce  unemployment  that’s held above 9
percent since May 2009.  QE2  “QE2 is intended to increase the appetite for risk
assets,” said  Gautam Kakodkar , a credit strategist at Barclays
Capital, the investment banking division of Barclays Plc.
“Loans, along with credit in general, have rallied in
anticipation of the Fed program.”  Credit Suisse Group AG, JPMorgan, Bank of America, Wells
Fargo & Co., Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
yesterday held a meeting with lenders for Petco’s term loan
intended to refinance debt and fund a dividend.  The company proposed an interest rate 4.75 percentage
points to 5 percentage points more than the London interbank
offered rate. Libor, the rate banks charge to lend to each
other, will have a 1.5 percent floor. Petco also proposed to
issue the debt at 98.5 cents on the dollar, reducing proceeds
for the company and boosting the yield for investors.  Atlantic Broadband  Atlantic Broadband is seeking a $575 million term loan and
a $25 million revolving credit line to refinance debt and pay a
$110 million dividend to owner Abry Partners LLC. The Quincy,
Massachusetts-based cable-communications provider will meet with
lenders today and plans to propose a margin of 4 percentage
points over Libor, with a 1.5 percent floor on the lending
benchmark. The so-called original-issue discount is 1 percent.  Pricing on B+ and B rated loans dropped to 6.54 percentage
points as of Nov. 4 from this year’s peak of 7.56 percentage
points in July, and debt rated higher at BB and BB- paid a
spread of 5 percentage points, down from a July high of 5.77
percentage points, S&P LCD data show. The average all-in spreads
assume three-year maturity on loans and includes average upfront
fees, original-issue discounts and floors.  “It feels like the Fed’s trying to firm up financial
markets to make them more free flowing and open to all debt
issuers, and that’s certainly happening,” said  Cliff Noreen ,
president of Babson Capital Management LLC, which oversees $129
billion of assets.  Buyout Funding  Private-equity firms, which pool money from investors and
obtain debt to finance takeovers with the intention of selling
the companies later for a profit, are taking advantage of
investor appetite to reduce financing costs for buyouts.  Gymboree Corp. , the children’s clothing retailer being
taken private by Bain Capital, increased the size of a loan it’s
seeking for its acquisition by $100 million to $820 million and
cut pricing.  The San Francisco-based company reduced the interest rate
by 0.5 percentage point to 4 percentage points more than Libor
and dropped the floor on the lending benchmark by 0.25
percentage point to 1.5 percent. Original-issue discount
declined to 1 percent from 1.5 percent.  “You’re seeing some defensive maneuvering into leveraged
loans,” said  Jason Shoup , a high-yield credit strategist at
Citigroup in New York. “There’s a whole class of investors
seeing inflation being pulled forward, and if you’re in that
camp you want to get into a floating rate product earlier than
later.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emre Peker  in New York at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at   fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 