-- Obama Presses Hu on Yuan as Trade Imbalances Divide G-20
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   M i c h a e l   F o r s y t h e
-- 2010-11-11T07:45:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/obama-meeting-with-hu-at-center-stage-as-group-of-20-meets-in-south-korea.html
President  Barack Obama  sat down with
Chinese President  Hu Jintao  to discuss global imbalances with a
country whose record $28 billion  trade surplus  with the U.S. in
August heightened complaints it keeps the yuan undervalued.  "As two of the world’s leading economies we have a special
obligation to deal with ensuring strong balance and sustained
growth," Obama told reporters before starting the talks at the
Grand Hyatt in Seoul today. Hu expressed confidence the Group of
20 summit the two leaders are also attending today and tomorrow
will produce a "positive outcome."  The Obama-Hu talks may help lessen global disagreements
over how to spur economic growth and better balance trade
between large exporters led by China, and net importers like the
U.S. It is the seventh time Obama has met individually with Hu,
highlighting the importance of relations with the world’s
fastest-growing major economy.  The  G-20  summit comes amid a 10-day trip to Asia in which
Obama has emphasized how the region’s role in the global economy
benefits the U.S. He already has stopped in India and Indonesia
and tomorrow travels to Yokohama, Japan, for the Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation forum. The president earlier today met with
South Korean President Lee Myung Bak and said the two countries
hope to forge a free-trade agreement within weeks.  Currency Friction  At the top of Obama’s agenda with Hu are differences over
efforts to shrink current-account gaps as a way to ease friction
over the value of China’s currency. The U.S. is pushing China to
let the yuan appreciate faster to curb the  trade surplus .  “The most important thing is whether or not the Chinese
are going to support this idea,” said  Nicholas Lardy , a senior
fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics.
“It wouldn’t solve the currency problem but it’s a way to kind
of finesse it.”  China, along with Germany, opposed a suggestion last month
by U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  that the G-20
consider targets for reining in excessive current-account
imbalances. To meet the targets, exporting countries like China
would likely have to let the value of their currency rise,
making their exports more expensive.  Chinese officials have also given a mixed response to the
U.S. Federal Reserve’s plan to buy $600 billion of Treasuries to
stimulate the economy.  Mixed Response  Vice Finance Minister  Wang Jun  said Nov. 6 that the policy
could contribute “tremendously” to global growth, a day after
Chinese Vice Foreign Minister  Cui Tiankai  warned at a press
briefing in Beijing that the Fed’s actions may hurt global
confidence.  Talking about trade while in Indonesia yesterday, Obama
didn’t specifically mention China when he criticized countries
that intervene “significantly in the currency markets to
maintain their advantage.”  “Both surplus and deficit countries would benefit if there
was a more balanced program in which the surplus countries were
focused on internal demand, there was a more market-based
approach to the currencies, and the deficit countries thereby
were able to export more,” he said.  Obama reiterated that message in a Nov. 9 letter to fellow
G-20 leaders. He wrote that stimulating domestic demand in
surplus countries “along with market determination of exchange
rates that reverses significant undervaluation,” will help
bring about a balanced recovery.  Trade Surplus  China is the U.S.’s second largest trading partner,
following Canada. It also had a more than  $170 billion trade
imbalance  with the U.S. in the 12 months ended August, according
to the Department of Commerce. China yesterday posted a larger-
than-forecast $27.1 billion trade surplus in October as exports
rose 22.9 percent from a year earlier.  Obama is facing demands from U.S. lawmakers to put more
pressure on China over its currency. The yuan today rose to its
highest against the dollar since 1993 as the People’s Bank of
China continued to ratchet up the currency’s daily trading range
ahead of the G-20 summit, which begins later today.  China, which has curbed the yuan’s rise to about 3 percent
since a two-year dollar peg was removed in June, has argued that
letting its currency rise more quickly could cause social and
economic disruption.  U.S. Exports  A stronger Chinese currency would aid Obama’s goal of
doubling U.S. exports to about $3.1 trillion by 2015 as a way to
combat an  unemployment rate  has remained at 9.5 percent or
higher for more than a year.  Pieter Bottelier , a former World Bank official in China,
said focusing on trade gaps may help move the debate by
directing the discussion away from the value of China’s
currency.  “When you get the emphasis shifted from the nominal
exchange rate to the current account balance you give the
Chinese more wiggle room,” said Bottelier, now a senior adjunct
professor of China Studies at Johns Hopkins University’s Nitze
School of Advanced International Studies in Washington. “From
the Chinese perspective this gives them a way out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Seoul at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  