-- Obama Says U.S. Has Stake in Indonesian Democracy, Prosperity
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2010-11-10T09:03:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/obama-says-trade-currency-imbalances-are-hindering-global-economic-growth.html
President  Barack Obama  said the U.S.
has a stake in Indonesia’s continued  growth  as a market for
American goods and as an ally in spreading democracy.  In a speech to an audience of about 6,000 people at the
University of Indonesia in Jakarta, Obama said Indonesia’s
“extraordinary democratic transformation” and its religious
tolerance stand as examples to other emerging economies.  “America has a stake in an Indonesia that is growing, with
prosperity that is broadly shared among the Indonesian people,”
Obama said, “because a rising middle class here means new
markets for our goods, just as America is a market for yours.”  The president, 49, who lived in Jakarta from 1967 to 1971,
greeted the audience with remarks in the Indonesian language,
drawing cheers. He told them, “Indonesia bagian dari diri
saya,” meaning Indonesia is part of me.  Obama arrived in Jakarta yesterday, the second stop on a
four-country tour of Asia that began with India and has focused
primarily on expanding trade in the region and boosting U.S.
exports to create jobs at home. He left after the speech for
Seoul, where the leaders of the Group of 20 nations are meeting.  In his address, Obama highlighted the coexistence of
democracy and Islam in Indonesia as an example to other emerging
economies.  “This is why Indonesia will play such an important part in
the 21st century,” he said. “Gone are the days when seven or
eight countries could come together to determine the direction
of global markets.”  Emerging economies such as Indonesia will have a bigger
voice and greater responsibility for guiding the world economy,
he said.  Praising Yudhoyono  At a state dinner in his honor last night, Obama praised
President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono , Indonesia’s first directly
elected president, as “a leader who has guided this nation
through its journey into democracy.”  Obama also highlighted the advantages of democracy while he
was in India, the first stop on his Asia tour. During a meeting
with students at  St. Xavier’s College  in Mumbai Nov. 7, he
commented on the Nov. 2 congressional elections in the U.S., in
which his party lost control of the House of Representatives and
seats in the Senate.  “One of the wonderful things about democracy is that when
the people are not happy it’s their right, obligation and duty
to express their unhappiness, much to the regret sometimes of
incumbents,” he said.  Rebuilding Relationship  While in Indonesia, the world’s largest Muslim-majority
country and third-largest democracy, Obama sought to build on
his efforts to reset relations with the Muslim world.  Earlier today the president and first lady  Michelle Obama 
visited the Istiqlal Mosque, Southeast Asia’s largest, which was
under construction when he lived in Jakarta.  “Its name and history also speak to what makes Indonesia
great,” Obama said. “Istiqlal means independence, and its
construction was in part a testament to the nation’s struggle
for freedom.”  Obama, continuing the themes he laid out in a June 2009
speech at Cairo University, said he is making repairing U.S.
relations with Muslims worldwide a priority.  He said that while progress has been made on issues at the
root of tensions, “much more work remains to be done.”  The Muslim world, like the U.S., has an interest in
battling extremism and in the success of peace talks between
Israel and the Palestinians.  ‘Persistent’ Pursuit  “We have faced false starts and setbacks, but we have been
persistent in our pursuit of peace,” Obama said in the text of
his remarks. “Israelis and Palestinians restarted direct talks,
but enormous obstacles remain. There should be no illusions that
peace and security will come easy.”  “But let there be no doubt: America will spare no effort
in working for the outcome that is just, and that is in the
interest of all the parties involved: two states, Israel and
Palestine, living side by side in peace and security,” he said.  Obama’s strategy of reaching out to Muslims holds political
risks for him. The U.S. president has had to defend himself
against false rumors that he’s Muslim and today, many in the
Muslim world are still looking for him to deliver on some of the
promises in the Cairo speech.  A July 2010  Zogby International  survey of six Arab nations
showed that majorities of urban dwellers in Egypt, Morocco,
Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates don’t believe that
Obama met the expectations he set in his Cairo speech. Favorable
opinions of the U.S. in those countries are down from the year
before, though still higher than at the end of  George W. Bush ’s
presidency, the survey found.  Confidence Decline  Likewise, the Pew Research Center’s Global Attitudes
Project conducted April and May of this year found that the
opinion of the U.S. in Muslim countries has slipped since last
year. In Egypt, 31 percent of Muslims expressed confidence in
Obama, down from 41 percent last year and in Pakistan, a
critical U.S. partner in the Afghanistan war, only 8 percent of
Muslims expressed confidence in the U.S. president, down from 13
percent last year. In Indonesia, confidence in Obama slipped
five points to 65 percent.  “There is so much that he did right in the Cairo speech in
terms of the symbolism, in terms of the atmospherics in terms of
the general direction that America should go,” said Stephen
Grand, director of the Brookings Project on U.S. Relations with
the Islamic World. “But it’s unfortunate that he hasn’t gotten
much from the speech a year and a half later.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Jakarta at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Jakarta at 
 Hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  