-- Obama Says Dollar Depends on Economy as G-20 Renews Fed Dispute
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-11-10T19:55:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/obama-says-dollar-s-strength-depends-on-economy-as-g-20-renews-fed-dispute.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
strength of the dollar rests on sustaining the U.S. expansion as
Group of 20 officials remain divided over whether the Federal
Reserve is helping or harming the world economy.  Obama joins his G-20 counterparts at a summit in Seoul
today, defending America’s economic policy by arguing growth in
his country is the “most important contribution” the U.S. can
make to the global recovery and that its “fundamental
strength” will ultimately determine the dollar’s value.  His comments, contained in a Nov. 9 letter to fellow
leaders, are the latest attempt to blunt criticism from other
nations that last week’s decision by the Fed’s policy makers to
buy $600 billion in assets risks undermining their economies by
weakening the dollar and flooding emerging markets with capital.  That argument was made again yesterday by Brazilian Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega , who told reporters that the G-20 may
discuss diluting the dollar’s role as a reserve currency to
lessen its power in global markets. U.K. Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  rebutted that thought in a Bloomberg
interview and pointed out that “it’s in the interest of
everyone” that U.S. domestic demand rebounds and that the Fed
is trying to deliver that.  G-20 Struggle  Such differences suggest the G-20 will struggle to unite
over how to narrow imbalances in the world economy after its
reliance on excess U.S. demand and Chinese savings helped spark
the worst credit crisis since the Great Depression. A U.S.
proposal to set guidelines for current-account deficits and
surpluses has already run into opposition from export
powerhouses China, Germany and Japan.  Kim Yoon Kyung, a spokesman for South Korea’s G-20
preparation committee, said yesterday in a press briefing that
discussions between officials over currencies had been
contentious and there was no agreement over what the leaders
would say in their post-summit statement.  “We had to open the door because the debate was so animated
and the room was getting hot,” he said.  The talks are infected by suspicion that members are each
pursuing independent strategies to boost growth through weaker
currencies and leaving the legwork to strengthen and rebalance
the overall world economy to others.  As the U.S. lobbies China to let the yuan appreciate
faster, its message is being weakened by the accusation that the
Fed’s easier monetary policy is hurting the dollar. Caught in
the middle are emerging markets with floating currencies, which
are embracing capital controls or intervening to stay
competitive.  Yuan Climbed  The yuan yesterday climbed to the strongest level against
the dollar since 1993 on speculation China will permit faster
appreciation before the G-20 talks. Its central bank yesterday
also raised lenders’ reserve requirements as cash from October’s
larger-than-forecast $27.1 billion trade surplus threatened to
add to the risk of asset bubbles and inflation.  In his letter, Obama sought to share the responsibility for
underpinning the international economy by urging countries
“that have previously relied on exports to offset weaknesses in
their own demand.” America’s own  exports  climbed to the highest
level in two years in September, according to data released
yesterday by the Commerce Department.  “When all nations do their part -- emerging no less than
advanced, surplus no less than deficit -- we all benefit from
higher growth,” Obama said.  Geithner Also Pushed  Acknowledging a two-speed global recovery, U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  pushed for cooperation with
colleagues from Australia and Singapore in an opinion piece
yesterday on the Wall Street Journal’s website.  “The challenges facing us now are those of working for the
common good in a world of widely differing economic
conditions,” they wrote. On the eve of the G-20 summit, “the
world faces two very different transitions to stable growth.”  Others are primed for robust disagreement. Brazil’s
Mantega, who ignited tensions in September by saying a
“currency war” was underway, said in Seoul yesterday that
quantitative easing is a problem as the U.S. cash leaks abroad
and risks inflating asset bubbles. He said the G-20 may discuss
reducing the dollar’s role in favor of a basket that could
include the real and yuan.  “The U.S. economy used to reign absolute, it was the
strongest economy in the world and stood out from the others,”
Mantega told reporters. “Today that is no longer the case.”  The U.K.’s Osborne said he wanted to offer “the other side
of the argument” after a week in which the U.S. central bank
was criticized by officials from Germany to China.  Concerns ‘Overstated’  World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  also weighed in and
told Bloomberg Television that “some of the concerns have been
overstated” about Fed policy. Emerging markets, with superior
growth rates, would be a magnet for capital regardless of what
the Fed was doing, he said yesterday.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said in London that
comments in recent weeks had been a distraction from the key
debate and that the world economy faces a “lose-lose”
situation if the G-20 fails to make progress on reducing gaps in
global trade.  “There needs to be a genuine recognition that there is a
collective interest in the path along which the current-account
imbalances unwind,” King said. “Unless we recognize that, then
we will face a situation where more and more countries will
resort to policy instruments that will be damaging to
everyone.”  King said he was “absolutely delighted” by President
 Nicolas Sarkozy ’s call to study ways of reordering the
international monetary system when France takes the helm of
the G-20 next year. In an interview in Paris that will be
broadcast on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move” with
 Francine Lacqua , French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said
she expected “many proposals” to be made.  Zoellick Clarified  The World Bank’s Zoellick also clarified an opinion piece
he wrote in the Financial Times earlier in the week.  Zoellick said he was not advocating a return of a gold
standard but he added that the metal’s rise to a record
$1,424.30 an ounce this week reflected a lack of confidence in
policy making and suggested a new monetary framework was
required.  “You’re moving to what I call a Bretton Woods III system,
where you have key roles for the dollar, the euro, the yen, the
pound, and over time, the renminbi,” he told Bloomberg
Television.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net 
 Julianna Goldman  in Seoul at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  