-- Obama Lawyers Back Military Gay Ban at Supreme Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-11-10T21:55:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/obama-lawyers-back-military-don-t-ask-don-t-tell-gay-ban-at-high-court.html
The Obama administration said the
 U.S. Supreme Court  should let the military continue to bar
openly gay people under the “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy,
arguing that a change in the law should come from Congress, not
the courts.  Acting U.S. Solicitor General  Neal Katyal , the
administration’s top courtroom lawyer, today urged the justices
not to reinstate a federal judge’s order that had temporarily
suspended the law.  U.S. District Judge  Virginia  A. Phillips declared the law
unconstitutional in September, and a Republican gay-rights group
is seeking to put that ruling into effect immediately. A federal
appeals court put Phillips’s order on hold.  “It was entirely appropriate for the court of appeals to
defer to the considered judgment of senior military leaders that
any change in policy must be done in an orderly and careful
manner in order to be successful,” Katyal argued in papers
filed in Washington.  In asking the Supreme Court to lift the ban while the
litigation goes forward, the Log Cabin Republicans said the
government “presented no evidence to support a finding that
open service by gay and lesbian individuals harmed the
military’s interests.”  Efforts to overturn the don’t ask, don’t tell policy have
been repeatedly thwarted. Although the House in May approved
lifting the ban, Senate Democrats haven’t mustered enough
support to bring repeal legislation to a vote. Opponents of the
ban are now trying to include a repeal as part of a defense bill
the Senate will consider in the lame-duck session that starts
next week.  Obama reiterated the day after the Nov. 2 election that he
wants to end the gay ban. Even so, his administration has fought
against a court-ordered repeal, saying the military needed time
to put a new policy in place. The Defense Department is
scheduled to complete a study of the issue by Dec. 1.  The case is Log Cabin Republicans v. United States, 10A465.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 