-- OHL Mexico $1.1 Billion Public Offering Shows `Renewed Life' for Equities
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2010-11-10T18:43:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/ohl-mexico-1-1-billion-public-offering-shows-renewed-life-for-equities.html
OHL Concesiones Mexico SA, a unit of
Spanish construction company  Obrascon Huarte Lain SA , may raise
a record $1.1 billion in a share sale today, signaling  economic
growth  is reviving Mexico’s market for initial public offerings.  OHL is seeking to sell 448 million shares for 24 pesos to
30 pesos each, totaling as much as 13.4 billion pesos ($1.1
billion), according to filings with Mexico’s stock exchange.
That would top the previous record for Mexico set by brewer
 Grupo Modelo SAB , whose 1994 IPO raised $578 million.  The sale signals “renewed life” for Mexico’s equity
capital markets, said  Guillermo Babatz , president of the
National Banking and Securities Commission, the local securities
regulator. OHL is Mexico’s fifth IPO since April, after
supermarket operator  Grupo Comercial Chedraui SA  and gymnasium
company Grupo Sports World SAB ended a two-year drought. Mexico
will have at least 10 IPOs in 2011, Babatz said.  “I’m optimistic that the vicious cycle has been broken,”
Babatz said in a Nov. 8 interview in Mexico City. “Things have
changed radically in Mexico’s capital markets in the past year.
There is going to be a significant flow of companies coming to
market.”  Roads ‘Shortage’  Mexico will have one more IPO this year after OHL, ending
the country’s “drought,” said  Pedro Zorilla , chief operating
officer of the Bolsa Mexicana, at the Bloomberg Economic Summit
in Mexico City today. Zorilla said companies may raise as much
as 20 billion pesos through initial offerings this year.  Brazil, Latin America’s biggest economy, has had 10 IPOs so
far this year, including an offering by shipbuilder OSX Brazil
SA, which raised 2.45 billion reais ($1.4 billion) in March.
Eight of those companies gained at least 16 percent since their
share sales through yesterday and two declined. Of the four
Mexican IPOs, two declined and the best performer gained 12
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mexico, Latin America’s second-largest economy, will grow 5
percent this year, the most since 2006, rebounding from the
worst contraction since the 1930s, according to Mexican central
bank estimates. Infrastructure investment will grow faster than
gross domestic product this year and next, said  Federico Patino ,
head of Mexico’s national infrastructure fund, known as Fonadin.  Mexico’s six biggest publicly traded heavy construction
companies have climbed 20 percent on average this year, more
than the 13 percent advance in the benchmark  IPC Index .  Road Shortage  Mexico’s infrastructure growth is responding to a “great
shortage” of roads and bridges connecting cities and linking
the North American country to the U.S., which buys 80 percent of
its exports, said Patino. OHL plans to use the money to finance
investment projects and expand, according to the company’s
prospectus.  “Never before has there been as much investment in the
infrastructure sector as they’re making right now, despite the
crisis,” Patino said in a Nov. 5 interview from Mexico City.  Jose Miguel Garaicochea , a fund manager at Banco Santander
SA, said today that Mexico’s infrastructure industry is his “top
pick” for next year.  OHL’s sale would value it at 21.1 times earnings, about
two-thirds of the 31 times profit average for six heavy
construction companies that trade in Mexico, according to OHL’s
prospectus. OHL Mexico cut the size of its IPO by 19 percent on
Oct. 22, saying it would sell 104 million fewer shares than
previously announced.  $14.5 Billion Contracts  Companies including OHL and competitor Empresas ICA SAB,
the industry’s biggest, vie for as much as $14.5 billion in
government contracts, the government said.  OHL began operating in Mexico in 2002 and won its sixth
contract to build and manage a highway in the nation in June. It
has a 49 percent stake in the operator of the Toluca airport
outside Mexico City, according to its website.  OHL’s revenue surged 60 percent to 11.3 billion pesos last
year, according to the company’s prospectus. In 2005, the
company’s Brazilian toll-roads unit raised 431 million reais in
an IPO in that country. The shares have climbed 76 percent this
year to 59.70 reais.  OHL hired the local units of Banco Santander SA and Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA to manage the sale.  The IPO is “attractive” and is generating demand from
buyers including Grupo Financiero Interacciones SA, according to
 Jorge Lagunas , who manages about $200 million at the Mexico
City-based firm.  “We need growth in new infrastructure,” Lagunas said in a
telephone interview from Mexico City yesterday. “The listing is
going to be extremely hot.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan J. Levin  in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
 Andres R. Martinez  in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  