-- Oil Will Be `Substantially Higher' by 2012 as Supplies Drop, Goldman Says
-- B y   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 2010-11-10T02:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/oil-prices-will-be-substantially-higher-by-2012-goldman-says.html
Oil prices will be “substantially
higher” by 2012 as the global stockpile surplus shrinks and
excess production capacity drops, according to  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. , the most profitable bank in Wall Street history.  Global economic growth will drive oil demand and reduce
 inventories , which are still “exceptionally high” in developed
countries including the U.S., the world’s biggest user of crude,
Goldman said in a report dated yesterday. Spare capacity held by
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will decline
as the 12-member group, which pumps 40 percent of the world’s
oil, boosts supply to meet demand, the bank said.  “Despite the recent rally, we believe that forward price
levels offer good hedging opportunities,” Goldman analysts, led
by  Allison Nathan  in New York, said in the report. “We continue
to expect improving fundamentals will provide additional support
to prices.”  Oil climbed to the highest in two years yesterday, and is
up 7 percent this month, on speculation the Federal Reserve’s
stimulus program will weaken the dollar, bolstering the
investment appeal of commodities. U.S. crude inventories plunged
7.4 million barrels last week, the biggest drop since September
2008, according to an American Petroleum Institute report
yesterday.  The Fed said Nov. 3 it will buy an additional $600 billion
of Treasuries through June to spur the economy. Investors should
have an “overweight allocation” on commodities because this
policy, along with the global recovery, is positive for prices,
according to Goldman.  ‘Price Appreciation’  “We continue to expect strong price appreciation for key
commodities and thus substantial aggregate commodity returns,”
the report said. “We continue to see differentiation across
commodity fundamentals and ultimately, relative performance.”  Commodities have extended a rally to a 25-month high as the
global appetite for crops outpaced supplies and as precious
metals surged on demand for a haven from declining currencies.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19  raw materials 
rose as much as 1.6 percent to 320.38, the highest level since
Oct. 6, 2008. The gauge has jumped 21 percent since Aug. 31, led
by cotton, sugar and silver.  Crude, along with copper, zinc, gold, platinum and corn,
will have the “most upside potential” in the next 12 months
after the U.S. economic-stimulus measures, according to Goldman
Sachs.  Chicago Corn  The bank, which last week recommended investors sell the
February 2011 aluminum contract, maintained its calls to buy New
York platinum futures for January 2011 and copper and gold
contracts for December 2011. Buyers should also purchase Chicago
corn contracts for March 2011, it said.  Goldman’s call to buy December 2010 New York oil futures,
recommended on Feb. 5, has achieved a profit of $9.31 a barrel
so far, according to the report. The contract was at $86.81 a
barrel, up 9 cents, in electronic trading on the New York
Mercantile Exchange at 9:47 a.m. Singapore time today.  U.S.  crude stockpiles  reached 368.2 million barrels at the
end of October, 14 percent above the five-year average level,
according to the Energy Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yee Kai Pin  in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jane Lee in Kuala Lumpur at 
 jalee@bloomberg.net  