-- Tokyo AIM to Start Trading in Bonds of Overseas Companies on Yield Demand
-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a   a n d   E m i   U r a b e
-- 2010-11-10T06:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/tokyo-stock-exchange-plans-to-start-international-bond-market-this-year.html
Tokyo AIM , a venture between Tokyo
Stock Exchange Group Inc. and London Stock Exchange Group Plc,
plans to offer trading in bonds of overseas companies as
Japanese investors seek higher yields than on domestic debt.  The bourse will start trading listed notes denominated in
currencies other than the yen by March 31, it said in a
 statement  on its website today. The “Tokyo Pro-Bond Market”
will allow issuers to “benefit from a speed and flexibility of
issuance equivalent to using Euro Medium Term Note programs,”
the statement said.   Local investors will welcome “more options to buy” if
Tokyo AIM makes “overseas names and currencies more accessible
than before,”  Toshihiro Uomoto , chief credit strategist at
Nomura Securities Co., said in a telephone interview from the
Japanese capital.  Sales of Japanese corporate bonds declined 18 percent to
8.09 trillion yen ($99 billion) this year from 9.92 trillion yen
in the same period a year ago as benchmark borrowing costs
plunged, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Relative
yields on company debt over government notes fell to 29 basis
points from 38 basis points, a Nomura  index  shows. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  English Documentation  Tokyo AIM was licensed in May 2009 and the Tokyo Stock
Exchange owns 51 percent of the venture with the LSE holding the
rest, according to its website. Borrowers listing on the new
bourse will be able to submit documentation in English,  Yutaka Ito , Tokyo AIM’s chief operating officer, told reporters today.  “The needs from Asia for Japanese institutional investors’
money are very strong, so we want to satisfy them with low
costs,” Ito said. “Filing documents written in English will be
a huge weapon.”  Woori Bank , a unit of South Korea’s third-biggest financial
company by market value, plans to raise about 30 billion yen
from its first sale of Samurai bonds, a person familiar with the
matter said yesterday, referring to yen-denominated notes issued
by a foreign borrower in Japan.  Sales of Samurai notes rose to 1.55 trillion yen this year
from 1.24 trillion yen in the same period of 2009, Bloomberg
data show. Companies or governments planning to sell Samurai
bonds must first register in Japanese with Japan’s finance
ministry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yusuke Miyazawa  in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net ;
 Emi Urabe  in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at   wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  