-- Lone Star Said to Extend Fundraising as It Seeks Property Loans
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-11-10T16:51:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/lone-star-said-to-extend-fundraising-as-it-seeks-to-acquire-property-loans.html
  Lone Star Funds , the real estate
investment firm run by  John Grayken , asked investors for six
more months to raise $8 billion for two funds as it seeks to
acquire troubled U.S. property loans from banks.  The company sent a letter to investors last week seeking
written approval to push its fundraising deadline to May 31 from
Nov. 30, two people with knowledge of the matter said. They
asked not to be named because the information is private.  Lone Star originally sought to raise $20 billion for its
two newest funds, and cut that target in February. Private-
equity real estate fundraising has slumped this year as managers
move slowly in putting money to work and institutional investors
hold back after losses during the housing crash, London-based
research firm Preqin Ltd. said in an August  report .  “People are terrified of risk right now,” Nori Gerardo Lietz, a Partners Group AG consultant on real estate
investments, said at a July 28 meeting of the Oregon Investment
Council. “If there’s anybody who should be able to raise
capital, it’s  Lone Star ,” she said. “They have never lost any
money in any of their funds.”  Lone Star’s Fund VII will buy pools of residential loans
and home mortgages that have been bundled into bonds, as well as
property lenders. Lone Star Real Estate Fund II will focus on
commercial real estate. Each has a target of raising $4 billion,
with a maximum of $5 billion.  Ed Trissel, a spokesman for Dallas-based Lone Star,
declined to comment on the extended fundraising deadline.  $9.6 Trillion  There is an estimated $9.6 trillion outstanding of
residential mortgage debt in the U.S., of which about $5.2
trillion is securitized in bonds sold by government-sponsored
housing-finance companies, about $1.35 trillion is in private
mortgage securities and about $3 trillion is on the books of
banks and other lenders, according to Deutsche Bank AG research
based on data from the  Federal Reserve  and housing agencies.  About $900 billion of the total debt outstanding is
“distressed,” defined as loans that are at least 90 days past
due, in foreclosure or owned by lenders after being seized,
according to the research unit of Barclays Plc.  It’s still early in the real estate recovery for buying
housing debt, Grayken, Lone Star’s founder and chairman, told
the Washington State Investment Board during a fundraising
presentation in Olympia on Nov. 4. He won a preliminary pledge
of $300 million that the full board is scheduled to ratify later
this month.  Merrill CDO Deal  Lone Star bought $30.6 billion of collateralized debt
obligations from Merrill Lynch & Co. for about 22 cents on the
dollar in 2008, one of the first and largest distressed deals of
the financial crisis. It also acquired San Diego-based subprime
lender Accredited Home Lenders Holding Co., and a mortgage unit 
of Bear Stearns Cos.  Potential profits in distressed housing debt already have
been diminished by declines in yields across markets and too
much demand chasing supply. Last year, investors were buying
soured home loans at prices that offered about 20 percent annual
yields, assuming an additional 15 percent slump in  home prices ,
Philip Seares, a managing director at Citigroup Inc. who runs
its trading of the debt, said at a conference last month.  In recent months, available yields have fallen to 9 percent
to 12 percent, assuming smaller home-price drops, Seares said.  About $12 billion to $14 billion of distressed home
mortgages may trade this year, said Kevin Brungardt, chief
executive officer of  Charlotte , North Carolina-based  RoundPoint
Financial Group , which purchases such loans and services them
for itself and other buyers. That would be less than 2 percent
of Barclays’s estimate of $900 billion of distressed debt.  Fewer Than Expected  “There’s been significantly more trades in 2010,”
Brungardt said in a Nov. 5 telephone interview. Still, they have
been “significantly less than people were expecting,” he said.  Investment banks and large commercial banks led by  Wells
Fargo & Co . and Citigroup have stepped up sales of distressed
home loans this year, buyers and their advisers said in a panel
discussion during the industry conference in Atlanta in October.
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., which sells assets from
failed lenders, represents another source of supply, they said.  Sales of nonperforming home loans about doubled from the
fourth quarter of last year, to almost $6 billion in the third
quarter, according to data presented during the Oct. 26 panel by
Louis Amaya, a co-founder of  National Asset Direct Inc.  The San
Diego-based company is a buyer and broker of the debt and also
provides technology and services to other investors.  Many smaller banks “don’t have enough capital to sell
their nonperforming assets into the market at today’s levels,”
Erik Rand, manager of mortgage finance at St. Louis-based Stifel
Financial Corp.’s Stifel Nicolaus unit, said during the October
panel. Those banks are holding on to loans that don’t fetch the
price they need, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  