-- One Million More U.S. Kids Are Diagnosed With Attention Deficit
-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 2010-11-10T22:41:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/one-million-more-u-s-kids-are-diagnosed-with-attention-deficit.html
The number of U.S. children
diagnosed with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder rose by
about 1 million, reflecting more premature births and increased
awareness among parents and doctors, researchers said.  About 1 in 10 school-aged children was diagnosed with the
illness at some time, the  Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention  said today, citing a survey conducted in 2007 and
2008. That translates to as many as 5.4 million kids, a 23
percent increase from the 2003 level.  Health-care professionals have to prepare themselves to
treat the cases, particularly among older adolescents and
Hispanics, said  Susanna Visser , an epidemiologist at the
Atlanta-based CDC and the report’s lead author. The  nation 
spends at least $3.3 billion a year on the disease, she said,
citing an agency study.  “ADHD has almost become a household name in the U.S.,”
Visser said in a telephone interview. “Doctors and other
health-care professionals have to be ready for the 1 million
more children who will need to be managed.”  Some of the increase may reflect diagnoses made after
anxious parents pushed for help for behavioral problems in
children, Visser said.  The survey, relying on parents’ reporting, isn’t the only
evidence of a rise in diagnoses of the disorder, she said.  “We have also seen even higher incidence of the disease in
community-based studies that have been conducted,” Visser said.
Visser is the lead epidemiologist for the Child Development
Studies Team at the CDC’s National Center for Birth Defects &
Developmental Disabilities.  Controlling Behavior  The disorder is a neurobehavioral illness that typically
begins in childhood and can persist, according to the CDC
report. The symptoms are difficulty staying focused, paying
attention or controlling behavior, and hyperactivity, according
to the website of the  National Institute of Mental Health , in
Bethesda, Maryland.  Of the 73,123 parents who completed the survey in 2007 or
2008, 9.5 percent reported having received an ADHD diagnosis for
a child at some point; 7.2 percent reported having a child with
a current diagnosis for the disorder, and 4.8 percent said they
had a child on medication for the malady.  The prevalence of ADHD diagnoses among Hispanic children
rose 53 percent over 4 years, according to the report. The 5.6
percent rate for Hispanics remained lower than the non-Hispanic
rate of 10.5 percent.  Age Differences  The children were divided into three age groups. The oldest
-- teens ages 15 to 17 -- showed the biggest increase in
diagnoses of the disorder, according to the report.  The states in the South turned in the highest numbers of
any U.S. region, with a 10.9 percent rate. The lowest region was
the West with a diagnosis rate of 7 percent.  Among the states, Alabama at 14.3 percent had the highest
incidence of ADHD, with Nevada at 5.6 percent having the lowest.
New York’s rate was 9.2 percent. California’s was 6.2 percent,
and the figure for Texas was 7.7 percent, the researchers said.  More than half a million babies in the United States -- 1
in 8 born every year -- are premature, according to the CDC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pat Wechsler  in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  