-- Hong Kong Exchanges Profit Falls on Trading Drop; Arculli Warns of Risks
-- B y   H a n n y   W a n
-- 2010-11-10T06:22:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/hong-kong-exchanges-profit-falls-on-trading-drop-arculli-warns-of-risks.html
Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. ,
operator of Asia’s third-biggest stock market, said third-
quarter profit fell 0.5 percent from a year earlier after
trading volume declined.  Net income  fell to HK$1.22 billion ($157 million), or
HK$1.13 per share, for the three months ended Sept. 30, from
HK$1.226 billion, or HK$1.14 a share a year earlier, the company
said in a statement today.  Revenue  and other income advanced 1
percent to HK$1.84 billion, it said.  An average HK$61.8 billion worth of shares  changed hands 
daily in the quarter, down from HK$66.7 billion the same period
a year earlier, the statement said. The benchmark  Hang Seng
Index  climbed 11 percent in that period. Shares in Hong Kong
Exchanges have gained 39 percent this year.  “The markets have moved on from what was a lackluster
Q3,”  Stephen Andrews , an analyst at UBS AG, wrote in a research
report.  Andrews estimated the average daily turnover of the bourse
will be HK$86 billion next year, and a record HK$95 billion for
2012, the report said. The analyst lifted the share-price
forecast for the stock to HK$125 from HK$115, and maintained a
“sell” rating on the stock.  Shares in Hong Kong Exchanges slid 0.2 percent to HK$193.80
at the 12:30 p.m. lunchtime trading break in the city.  Profit for the first nine months gained 2 percent to
HK$3.48 billion, the statement said. The average daily turnover
was HK$63.1 billion in the first three quarters of this year, up
3 percent from a year earlier, it said.  Luring Foreign Listing  Listing fees climbed 28 percent to HK$657 million in the
nine months to Sept. 30, according to the statement.  Ronald Arculli , chairman of the bourse, visited companies
in France and Italy last month to seek their listings in Hong
Kong, the statement said. The bourse has also done overseas
listing promotion in countries including Russia, Australia,
Japan and Taiwan in the third quarter, it said.  United Co. Rusal’s debut in January marked the listing of
the city’s first Russian company, followed by L’Occitane
International SA in May as the first French company to hold a
Hong Kong initial public offering.  “We remain cautiously optimistic about the further growth
of our securities and derivatives markets,” Arculli said in
today’s statement. “The potential ramifications of any
sovereign liquidity problems or currency wars, concerns about
the effectiveness of the fiscal measures of different
governments and the elevated risk of growing asset bubbles in
persistent low interest rate environments deepen the uncertainty
over the world’s economic performance and the outlook for
financial markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 