-- Honohan Says Ireland to Return to Bond Market in 2011 on Cuts
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   L i n d a   Y u e h
-- 2010-11-11T10:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/honohan-says-ireland-to-return-to-bond-market-in-2011-on-cuts.html
Irish central bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said he’s convinced the country will be able to return
to bond markets in 2011 as the government steps up austerity
measures to lower the budget deficit and restore investor
confidence.  “There is no reason why Ireland shouldn’t be able to go
back to bond markets next year,” Honohan, who also sits on the
European Central Bank’s 22-member Governing Council, told
Bloomberg Television in an interview in Dublin yesterday. “It
takes time for markets to be reassured. It takes more than
calming words from me or others.”  Irish bond yields have soared on concern that the
government will be forced to seek external aid to help it bail
out the country’s banks. While Ireland is fully funded until the
middle of next year and European Union Economic and Montary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said on Nov. 9 that he’s got “no
doubt” that the nation will overcome its crisis, investors keep
dumping the country’s bonds.  Honohan said that government measures to reduce the
deficit, which include 6 billion euros ($8.2 billion) in
spending cuts and tax increases for 2011, “should boost
confidence” and help push down borrowing costs.  ‘Sensible Spread’  Irish bonds fell for a 13th day today, pushing the yield on
10-year debt to 8.77 percent. The premium investors charge to
hold the debt over German bunds, Europe’s benchmark, widened to
a record 651 basis points. In Portugal, which is also struggling
to reduce its deficit, bonds also declined, widening the yield
spread to 484 basis points.  “A sensible bond spread would be at considerably lower
rates than there are today,” Honohan said. Investors “want to
see the first step of implementation and the detailed policies.
Laying out the points and making sure they are being done --
that’s what will convince the bond markets.”  Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan ’s plan involves 15 billion
euros in savings over four years to reduce the deficit below the
EU limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product by 2014. The
deficit will be about 12 percent of GDP this year, or 32 percent
of GDP when the costs of the banking rescue are included.  ‘Under Control’  While the recession eroded tax revenue and pushed up the
shortfall, Ireland’s fiscal position has been further weakened
by bank bailouts that the government says will end up costing as
much as 50 billion euros. Honohan said that the government isn’t
“low-balling” the costs and that he doesn’t see a need for
external support.  “There isn’t a full appreciation in the bond markets of
the amount of capital that has been put into banks,” he said.
“The government program on the fiscal accounts and the banks is
sufficient to turn the accounts back onto a convergent path and
bring them right under control.”  Lenihan plans to announce the 2011 budget on Dec. 7 in
parliament, where Prime Minister  Brian Cowen ’s government has a
majority of three seats. That’s making it more difficult for
lawmakers to reach agreement on budget cuts, according to  Alan McQuaid , chief economist at Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin.  “The political impasse in Dublin, and worries about a key
Portuguese debt auction on Wednesday unnerved markets,” he
said. “A lack of political consensus in Ireland on fiscal
consolidation is only likely to add to the current upward
pressure on Irish government bond yields.”  Lenihan said yesterday that a push by some European
countries for bond investors to help foot the bill of future
bailouts has contributed to a surge in Irish yields. German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said on Nov. 8 that private
investors must be included in a future crisis-resolution
mechanism aimed at tackling sovereign defaults.  Honohan said investors want to see the details of the Irish
government’s four-year plan and markets may be overreacting to
the crisis.  “Ireland is well on the way to fixing its problems,” he
said. “I think what we are seeing is maybe a delayed reaction
to issues the bond market hadn’t been focused on, and at this
stage they probably greatly exaggerated the problems.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
 Linda Yueh  in London at  lyueh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  