-- Moore Capital Said to Plan Spinoff of Paul Findley's European Stocks Team
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2010-11-10T13:18:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/moore-capital-said-to-plan-spinoff-of-findley-s-europe-stock-trading-team.html
Moore Capital Management LLC, the
$15 billion hedge fund run by  Louis Moore Bacon , plans to spin
off  Paul Findley ’s European equities team, according to two
people with knowledge of the move.  Findley, hired by New York-based Moore in 2008 to trade
from London, may start a separate hedge fund in the first
quarter, said the people, who asked not to be named because the
information is private. Moore may invest about $250 million, one
of the people said.  The timing of the spinout depends on obtaining approval
from the Financial Services Authority, the U.K.’s markets
regulator, according to the person. A spokesman for Moore
declined to comment.  “Having Moore as a backer will give a lot more
credibility, especially in this fundraising environment,” said
 Don Steinbrugge , managing partner of Agecroft Partners, a
Richmond, Virginia-based consulting firm that advises hedge
funds and investors.  The $1.7 trillion industry has experienced net deposits
this year for the first time since 2007, data from Chicago-based
Hedge Fund Research Inc. show, while the amount of money raised
as a share of assets is the lowest since 1998. The number of
startup funds has declined by a quarter, as investors shun
managers without a track record.  Two years ago, Moore spun out credit trader  Tim Leslie , who
started London-based James Caird Asset Management LP.  Before joining Moore, Findley had worked for a decade at
London-based Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd. Prior to that he
was head of the U.K. equity desk at British Aerospace.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Saijel Kishan  in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  