-- Morgan Stanley Recommends `Cheap' China, Korea Stocks Over Southeast Asia
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2010-11-10T01:07:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/morgan-stanley-picks-china-korea-equities-over-southeast-asia.html
Morgan Stanley recommended “cheap”
stocks in South Korea and China and advised reducing holdings in
Southeast Asia after rallies drove indexes in Indonesia, the
Philippines and Malaysia to record highs.  “Korea and China are examples of markets that are not in
any way expensive,”  Jonathan Garner , Morgan Stanley’s Hong
Kong-based chief Asian and emerging-market strategist, said in
an interview in Singapore yesterday. “We don’t find it
difficult to find large-cap Chinese stocks which are attractive
and we are quite happy to recommend.”  China’s low earnings volatility and “relatively
contained” inflation make it more “attractive,” Garner said.
Oil driller  Cnooc Ltd.  and coal producer  China Shenhua Energy
Co.  are on the brokerage’s focus list of companies. In contrast,
high earnings growth expectations are embedded in valuations for
some Southeast Asian markets, leaving them “no margin of
error” for unexpected interest rate increases, he said.  The  Shanghai Composite Index  has climbed 33 percent from
its July 5 low as fund flows to emerging markets surged. Stocks
in the gauge are valued at  17.7 times  estimated earnings, less
than half the multiple of 43 when the market peaked in 2007.
South Korea’s  Kospi Index  has risen 16 percent this year, adding
to last year’s 50 percent jump. The gauge is at  11 times 
estimated earnings, the lowest in Asia after Pakistan and
Vietnam.  In Southeast Asia, benchmark indexes in Indonesia, the
Philippines and Malaysia are among Asia’s best performers this
year. The rally drove the  Jakarta Composite Index  to 18.4 times
earnings, the  Philippine Stock Exchange Index  to a multiple of
15 and the  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index  to 16.3.  Asean, North  “We’re not as enthusiastic about Asean and India as we are
on North Asia,” Garner said, referring to the Association of
Southeast Asian Nations. Morgan Stanley predicted a “golden
age” for Chinese consumption, citing rising incomes and
declining savings rates, according to a Nov. 1 report by
economists Qing Wang and Steven Zhang.  The brokerage on Oct. 25 increased China’s allocation in
its model portfolio, saying domestic growth is re-accelerating,
and raised Asia to “overweight.” A week earlier, it advised
investors “gradually” to “scale back” holdings of  emerging-
market stocks  after they had rallied more than 30 percent since
May 26, when Morgan Stanley last increased the overweight
allocation for the shares in its model portfolio.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  has surged 16 percent this
year, more than twice the 7.4 percent gain in the MSCI World
Index of shares in developed markets.  Fund Inflows  Inflows into emerging-market stock funds have surpassed $60
billion and exceeded $46 billion in bonds, with both poised for
their best year since Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global
started tracking them in 1995.  China’s stock market may benefit from quantitative easing
as excess liquidity flows into equities, Michael Kurtz, head of
Asian strategy at Macquarie Bank Ltd., said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television today. While the U.S. government’s debt-
buying plan “creates challenges for China,” some of this
liquidity may be diverted to the A-share market, he said.  The Federal Reserve’s measures to boost the U.S. economy
will spur further weakness in the dollar and gains for global
equities, Goldman Sachs Asset Management’s Chairman  Jim O’Neill 
said Nov. 3. While a new “bull market” in global equities
probably started in the past 15 months, current valuations are
far from “bubble,” O’Neill said.  ‘Goldilocks’ Environment  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  may rise to 1,500 by
end-2011, supported by the Federal Reserve’s bond purchasing
plan and a “super-Goldilocks” economic environment, Citigroup
Inc.’s  Geoffrey Dennis  and  Jason Press , New York-based equity
strategists, said last week, boosting their estimate from 1,132
previously. The new target implies a 30 percent gain from
yesterday’s close of 1154.62.  At 1,500, the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  will have
multiples of 13 to 13.5 times estimated earnings and 2.8 times
book value, “well below the valuation peaks of 1993 and 2007,”
Dennis and Press said.  “What matters significantly more for emerging markets
equities are their own valuations, their earnings growth and the
policy environment in the emerging world itself,” Garner said
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino at Singapore at 
 kaquino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  