-- Mortgage Applications in U.S. Increase on Gain in Purchases
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-11-10T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/mortgage-applications-in-u-s-increase-for-third-week-on-gain-in-purchases.html
The number of mortgage applications
in the U.S. rose as purchases increased for a third straight
week and refinancing picked up.  The Mortgage Bankers Association’s  index  increased 5.8
percent in the week ended Nov. 5, the Washington-based group
said today.  Refinancing  rose 6 percent and  purchase  applications
were up 5.5 percent, the most since Oct. 1.  Mortgage rates near a record low are spurring refinancing
and helping the housing market stabilize after plunging earlier
this year in the wake of the expiration of a government
homebuyers’ tax credit. With the unemployment rate projected to
exceed 9 percent through next year and home prices under
pressure from foreclosures, housing may be restrained into 2011.  “Although the stabilization suggests the post-tax credit
bust in home sales is probably over, the lack of recovery
indicates overall home sales may remain depressed for some
time,”  David Resler , chief economist at Nomura Securities
International Inc. in New York, said in a note to clients before
the report.  The refinance gauge has more than doubled since January as
rates have fallen to record lows.  The average rate on a  30-year  fixed mortgage held at 4.28
percent. The 4.21 percent rate reported for the week ended Oct.
8 was the lowest in records going back to 1990.  At the current lending rate, monthly payments for each
$100,000 of a loan would be about $494, or $37 less than year
ago when the rate was 4.9 percent.  Mortgage Rates  The average rate on a 15-year fixed loan held at 3.64
percent, and the rate on a one-year adjustable mortgage fell to
7.08 percent from 7.18 percent.  The share of applicants seeking to refinance rose to 81.7
percent from 81.3 percent the prior week.  Pending sales  of previously owned homes fell in September,
according to a Nov. 5 report from the National Association of
Realtors. The group said moratoriums on foreclosures, stricter
lending standards and appraisals coming in lower than selling
prices are limiting progress in the housing market.  The foreclosure moratorium at banks including JPMorgan
Chase & Co. threatens to prolong the time it takes for the
housing market and prices to fully recover as properties slated
for repossession take longer to come to market. Attorneys
general in all 50 states are investigating foreclosure practices
after court documents surfaced showing finance-company employees
have signed papers without ensuring their accuracy.  Foreclosures Delayed  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. , the sixth-largest U.S.
bank by deposits, said Nov. 9 it plans to resume home
repossessions with “enhanced procedures.” Individual
foreclosures have been delayed “until we are confident that any
pending documentation issues have been resolved,” the company
said in a regulatory filing.  Other reports also suggest the housing market continues to
suffer.  Pulte Group Inc. , the largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue,
said Nov. 3 orders for the third quarter were down about 12
percent from the same period a year earlier. The company also
closed on 3,865 homes in the quarter, down 7 percent.  “Even as low home prices and record-low interest rates
combined to create unprecedented affordability, potential buyers
are hesitant, given weak economic conditions, limited job growth
and overall uncertainty about near-term opportunities,” Chief
Executive Officer  Richard Dugas  said on a conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  