-- Osborne Says London, Hong Kong to Be Trading Centers for Chinese Currency
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2010-11-10T08:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/osborne-says-london-hong-kong-to-be-trading-centers-for-chinese-currency.html
Hong Kong and London should become
centers of trading in the Chinese currency as the U.K. and China
work to strengthen economic and trade ties, British Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said.  “London, as a partner of Hong Kong, is developing new
Asian business, including internationalization of the
renminbi,” he said at a luncheon in Hong Kong today. “There
are massive opportunities for London through Hong Kong to play a
part in that.”  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and Osborne are in China
with the largest-ever U.K. business delegation. The coalition
government has said trade will be the cornerstone of its foreign
policy. Cameron says he aims to double the value of bilateral
trade with China to more than $100 billion a year by 2015.  Osborne vowed to remove obstacles in London to trading the
Chinese currency. He said he has “avoided commenting on” the
yuan’s valuation as nations should work together to address the
“broader issue” of reducing “economic imbalances.”  Cameron urged China to make the yuan more flexible, telling
students at Peking University in Beijing today that the Chinese
government is talking about “in time introducing greater market
flexibility into its exchange rate. This cannot be completed
overnight, but it must happen.”  Investing in Yuan  The Group of 20 and the International Monetary Fund are
“good forums” for countries to handle the global imbalance of
surplus and deficit issues, Osborne said, adding that G-20
leaders are “stepping toward” agreements on the problem.  China’s central bank said on Aug. 17 it would let overseas
financial institutions invest yuan holdings in the nation’s
interbank bond market to promote greater use of the currency in
global trade and finance. London-based  Standard Chartered Plc 
and HSBC Holdings Plc are among banks that received approval to
invest in this market.  Overseas demand for the yuan has grown since China ended
the currency’s two-year dollar peg on June 19, giving scope for
gains in the currency of a nation that surpassed Japan as the
world’s second-largest economy last quarter.  When asked about the expansion of stimulus by the U.S.
Federal Reserve, Osborne said the world should not
“underestimate” the problems in the U.S. economy and housing
market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Beijing at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  