-- Osborne Rejects IMF Call to Revise Plan If U.K. Growth Falters
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2010-11-10T22:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/osborne-rejects-imf-call-to-revise-spending-cuts-if-u-k-growth-falters.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  rejected a call by the International Monetary Fund to
revise his spending cuts if the U.K. economy slides into
recession.  Osborne, 39, said sticking to plans to eliminate most of
the  record budget deficit  within four years would be the best
defense against a global slump. He didn’t comment on a proposal
by the Washington-based lender for Britain to cut taxes to
stimulate demand.  “In that situation, a hypothetical situation where the
world is turning down, the thing that would raise its head, I
suspect, would be sovereign debt,” Osborne said in an interview
in Hong Kong yesterday. “The most important thing at the moment
is fiscal credibility.”  The U.K. government faced the first major protest against
cuts yesterday since Osborne outlined his plans Oct. 20. A
demonstration by students against increases in university
tuition fees turned violent when some protesters attacked the
headquarters in London of the ruling Conservative Party.  Osborne intends to narrow Britain’s deficit to 2 percent of
economic output by 2015 from more than 10 percent today. That
will involve 490,000 public-sector job losses and 18 billion
pounds ($29 billion) of welfare reductions, a cut of almost 9
percent in the total bill.  Osborne said his budget plans have been praised widely,
including by the IMF and leaders in China where he spent two
days on a visit this week aimed at boosting trade. The Bank of
England said yesterday that the economy would grow above its
long-term average over the next two years.  ‘Contingency Planning’  “The IMF make a point about potential contingency planning
in the U.K.; they were saying that, in a situation where there
is a very serious global downturn, Britain, like many other
countries, will have a challenge,” Osborne said.  The chancellor, who heads for Seoul today to the Group of
20 summit, declined three times to say whether he will consider
plans to combat such a challenge. He says that regulating demand
is the role of monetary policy, not government spending, and his
plans have helped secure Britain’s top-grade credit rating.  Standard & Poor’s said last month the cuts had safeguarded
Britain’s AAA rating and it was no longer in danger of being
downgraded.  Elsewhere in Europe, Spain, Italy and Belgium “are
unlikely to grow strongly enough to avoid the fiscal arithmetic
becoming more challenging,” HSBC Holdings Plc said two days
ago.  Erik Nielsen , chief European economist at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., said Nov. 8 some euro-area countries’ financing
costs won’t be sustainable because of weak growth.  Mission Chief  Ajai Chopra , IMF mission chief to the U.K., said two days
ago that the “pace of fiscal consolidation may need to be
adapted” if the economy falters, even though the fund continues
to back Osborne’s budget plan.  Central bank governor  Mervyn King  noted the importance of
the global economy, and especially the euro area, for the U.K.
outlook yesterday.  “Whether that recovery will be sustained depends heavily
on developments in the rest of the world, as domestic spending,
especially by the public sector, is likely to grow more slowly
looking ahead,” he said. “Given the scale of the fall during
the recession, the level of output is likely to remain weak.”  King said the “biggest risks” faced by the U.K. were in
the external environment.  Osborne rejected suggestions that King has been wrong to
express his views on fiscal policy. King has repeatedly stressed
the need for a “credible” fiscal plan and yesterday denied
putting pressure on the government, saying he had spoken less
about the public finances than his counterparts at the U.S.
Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank.  “The governor of the Bank of England is entitled to
express his opinions, and he has done, and he is entirely
independent when he does that,” Osborne said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in Beijing on  gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 