-- Asian Stocks Decline on Chinese Inflation Concern; Japanese Banks Advance
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   H a n n y   W a n
-- 2010-11-10T11:03:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/most-asian-stocks-advance-led-by-japanese-banks-exporters-bhp-increases.html
Asian stocks  outside Japan fell,
dragging down the MSCI Asia Pacific Index for a second day, as
Chinese companies declined on concern the government will seek
to cool asset inflation. Japanese banks advanced.  Bank of Communications Co. dropped 2.9 percent in Hong Kong
after a person with direct knowledge of the situation said China
ordered the bank and some other lenders to increase their
reserve ratios. Agile Property Holdings Ltd. plunged 7.4 percent
after a report showed China’s home prices rose last month.
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. , Japan’s biggest bank by
market value, jumped 4.2 percent in Tokyo after the Financial
Times said Group of 20 leaders meeting this week may seek to
exempt large Asian banks from stricter global regulations.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  fell 0.3 percent to 134.74 at
7:57 p.m. in Tokyo, with about five stocks advancing for every
four that declined. An  MSCI gauge  of shares excluding Japan
dropped 0.7 percent, on course for its biggest slump since Oct.
27.  “There is no doubt that China is on its way to further
tightening,” said  Danny Yan , a Hong Kong-based fund manager at
Taifook Asset Management, which oversees about $400 million.
“Food inflation in China is getting out of control. The whole
world is flooded with capital that has nowhere to go. Capital
inflows are a serious problem facing China. To tackle the
problem, tightening liquidity control seems unavoidable.”  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index lost 0.9 percent and China’s
Shanghai Composite Index declined 0.6 percent. Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index slipped 0.9 percent. Singapore’s Straits Times
Index retreated 0.7 percent.  China Banks, Property  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 1.4 percent, the
gauge’s biggest advance since June, and with the broader Topix
index climbed the most among benchmarks in the Asia-Pacific
region. South Korea’s Kospi Index rose 1.1 percent.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  were little
changed. The index slid 0.8 percent yesterday, the most in three
weeks, as financial and raw-materials companies declined.  Bank of Communications sank 2.9 percent to HK$8.70, and
Bank of China Ltd. lost 2.9 percent to HK$4.64. Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd. retreated 1.9 percent to HK$6.63.  The increases to reserve ratios will take effect Nov. 15,
the person with knowledge of the matter said. A press official
at the People’s Bank of China declined to comment.  Agile Property, which receives all its revenue from China,
sank 7.4 percent to HK$11.72, the MSCI Asia Pacific Index’s
 biggest drop . China Resources Land Ltd., a state-controlled
developer, lost 3.5 percent.  China Overseas Land & Investment
Ltd. , controlled by the construction ministry, fell 3.7 percent
to HK$16.38.  ‘Inflationary Expectations’  Home prices in 70 Chinese cities climbed 8.6 percent from a
year earlier, China Information News, the statistics bureau’s
newspaper, reported today.  Government data due for release in China tomorrow will show
the inflation rate accelerated to 4 percent in October,
according to the median estimate of 28 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. That would be the fastest pace in two years. The
government’s full-year inflation target is 3 percent.  “Inflationary expectations are high and the market is
anticipating further measures by the government to damp price
increases,” said  Wang Hui , a Changsha, China-based strategist
at Founder Securities Co.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 3.3 percent through
yesterday since the U.S. Federal Reserve unveiled on Nov. 3
plans to buy an additional $600 billion of Treasuries to bolster
economic growth. Stocks in the gauge trade at 14.7 times
 estimated earnings  on average, compared with about 22.7 times at
the start of the year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japanese Banks Advance  Mitsubishi UFJ, which gets all its revenue in Japan, rose
4.2 percent to 393 yen. Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc.,
Japan’s second-biggest bank by market value, gained 5.9 percent
to 2,512 yen.  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. , the No. 3, jumped 7.6
percent to 127 yen, the biggest advance on the Nikkei 225.  Mitsubishi UFJ was the  biggest support  to the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index. Japan’s three-largest banks are among Asian
lenders that may be exempted from plans to subject major global
banks to stricter regulations and capital requirements, since
most or all of their assets are domestic, the Financial Times
said today, citing legal experts and people briefed on the
agenda for this week’s meeting of the G-20.  “If the report is true, concern that banks need to raise
capital will ease,” said  Masayoshi Yano , a senior market
analyst at Tokyo-based Meiwa Securities Co.  Chip Shares, Earnings  Chip shares  accelerated gains  after Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co., the world’s largest maker of custom chips,
said this afternoon that October parent-level sales rose 28
percent from a year earlier.  Samsung Electronics Co ., Asia’s biggest chipmaker, climbed
2.1 percent to 790,000 won in Seoul. Hynix Semiconductor Inc.
advanced 1.9 percent to 23,900 won. Advantest Corp., the world’s
largest maker of chip-testing equipment, increased 2.4 percent
to 1,629 yen in Tokyo.  Among stocks that declined, Wilmar International Ltd., the
world’s biggest palm-oil trader, lost 5.4 percent to S$6.51 in
Singapore after saying third-quarter net income fell 60 percent.  Taiheiyo Cement Corp., Japan’s biggest cement maker, sank
5.2 percent to 91 yen. The company slashed its forecast of
current profit for the year ending in March by 67 percent,
citing a slump in the U.S.  Wilmar and Taiheiyo Cement were among today’s  five-sharpest
drops  in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index of almost 1,000 companies.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 