-- Tottenham Ties Sunderland, Stoke Beats Birmingham in Premier League Soccer
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2010-11-10T00:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/tottenham-draws-at-home-stoke-beats-birmingham-in-premier-league-soccer.html
Tottenham Hotspur was held to a 1-1
home draw by Sunderland and Stoke beat visitor Birmingham City
3-2 in English soccer’s Premier League.  Spurs extended their winless streak in the league to four
games while Stoke ended a five-match losing skid in all
competitions with last night’s win.  The victory lifted Stoke two places in the 20-team
standings, to 15th. Stoke overtook Birmingham, which is now 17th
with 12 points. Tottenham and Sunderland each climb one spot to
sixth and seventh respectively. Both have 16 points, nine fewer
than league leader and defending champion Chelsea.  Tottenham, which has now taken two points from a possible
12 in its past four league games, got the breakthrough in the
65th minute at White Hart Lane in north London.  Gareth Bale ’s deep cross was met by  Peter Crouch , who
headed the ball down and back across the goal for  Rafael Van der Vaart  to swing around and volley the ball into the net from four
yards. The Dutch international’s seventh goal in eight games
came after he appeared to control the ball with an arm.  The lead lasted 2 minutes, 14 seconds. Tottenham central
defenders  Younes Kaboul  and  William Gallas  got in each other’s
way, allowing it to run to Asamoah Gyan, who slid the ball under
Spurs goalkeeper  Heurelho Gomes  for his fourth goal in three
starts for the Black Cats.  Stoke Wins  At The Britannia Stadium in Stoke,  Robert Huth  put the home
team ahead when he turned in the rebound from a free kick.
 Ricardo Fuller  doubled the Potters’ advantage after 71 minutes
with his 100th goal in British soccer.  Three minutes later, Birmingham made it 2-1 when substitute
Keith Fahey volleyed past Stoke keeper Asmir Begovic.  Cameron Jerome made it 2-2 two minutes later with a header
into the corner of the net and Dean Whitehead got the winner
with five minutes remaining.  There are eight Premier League games tonight, including a
matchup of Manchester rivals City and United. Chelsea hosts west
London neighbor Fulham, Liverpool travels to Wigan seeking to
extend its winning run in the league to four games, while
Arsenal is at Wolverhampton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dex McLuskey  in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 