-- Lou Dobbs Hired by Fox Business After Leaving CNN Last Year
-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l
-- 2010-11-10T21:11:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/lou-dobbs-hired-by-fox-business-to-host-show-after-leaving-cnn-last-year.html
Lou Dobbs , the former CNN anchor who
quit last November after 27 years with the cable-news network,
is joining  News Corp. ’s Fox Business Network to start his own
show.  Dobbs, 65, will develop and host a daily show that will
start in the first quarter, New York-based Fox Business said
today in a statement. He will also provide analysis and
commentary across the network’s programs, as part of the
multiyear agreement.  At CNN, Dobbs drew controversy for his coverage of illegal
immigrants and questioning of President  Barack Obama ’s
citizenship. His ratings declined after the 2008 presidential
race and he announced his departure from the  Time Warner Inc. 
24-hour news channel almost exactly a year ago. In its last
years, “Lou Dobbs Tonight” had focused less on business and
more on the economic impact of trade, immigration and the loss
of middle-class jobs in the U.S.  When he quit, Dobbs vowed to work to change the way these
issues had become defined by “partisanship and ideology rather
than by rigorous, empirical thought and forthright analysis and
discussion.”  Fox Business was started in October 2007 and is available
in about 56 million U.S. households, according to News Corp.’s
10-K regulatory filing from August. CNN reaches more than 100
million households.  ‘Imus in the Morning’  Fox Business has been modifying its lineup. It began
simulcasting radio personality  Don Imus ’ nationally syndicated
program, “Imus in the Morning,” a year ago at 6 a.m. New York
time.  News Corp., based in New York, rose 17 cents, or 1.2
percent, to $14.45 at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The
shares have gained 5.5 percent this year.  Dobbs started at CNN when it began operating in 1980.
Later, advocacy groups including Media Matters and Presente.org
pressured CNN to drop the anchor. He gave so-called birthers who
questioned the authenticity of Obama’s birth certificate a
platform on his TV show.  Dobbs’s viewership soared to 953,000 at CNN during the 2008
U.S. presidential election. In 2009, he averaged 776,000 viewers
at 7 p.m.  When he announced his resignation from CNN on air, Dobbs
said that some leaders in media, politics and business had urged
him to get more actively involved in political, economic and
social issues, leading to speculation he may run for political
office.  Fox Business competes with General Electric Co.’s CNBC and
Bloomberg Television, owned by Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  