-- Toyota Lawyers Agree to Release Source Code in Lawsuits Over Acceleration
-- B y   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 2010-11-10T01:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/toyota-lawyers-agree-to-release-source-code-in-lawsuits-over-acceleration.html
Toyota Motor Corp.  agreed in court to
turn over access to technical data about its electronic throttle
control system that is alleged to be the cause of some of the
automaker’s sudden-acceleration problems.  Lawyers for Toyota told a judge today in federal court in
Santa Ana, California, that they will provide attorneys for
Toyota vehicle owners access to the “source codes” for the
system if the judge issues a confidentiality order covering the
company’s product and trade secrets. The source codes have been
at the center of disputes between the two sides during the
process of pre-trial evidence gathering.  “We have no problem in turning this over providing we have
the proper protections in place,” Toyota attorney Vincent
Galvin told U.S. District judge  James V. Selna .  Galvin said the information already had been turned over
to the government before Congress held hearings over Toyota’s
problems earlier this year. He said it had not been turned over
the plaintiffs yet because pre-trial discovery hadn’t reached
the stage in which Toyota was required to do so.  Mark Robinson , one of the lead plaintiffs’ lawyers, told
the judge the codes are vital in the case because they will
allow experts to analyze the throttle system and come up with
their own determination over whether flaws may have been a
factor in episodes of inadvertent acceleration.  “We’ve been like someone standing outside a house with a
camera taking pictures of the house and knowing what it looks
like without knowing what it’s made up of inside,” Robinson
told the judge. “We need to analyze this data and see how it
related or didn’t relate to the recalls.”  Toyota is facing about 400 lawsuits in which plaintiffs
claim they are due damages for injuries, death or loss of
vehicle value from sudden acceleration in several models of cars
made by Toyota.  The automaker is seeking dismissal of the suits at a
hearing scheduled for Nov. 19.  Among Toyota’s defenses over the electronic throttle
control system is that the plaintiffs have failed to define a
technical problem with the system, according to Toyota court
filings. The automaker also argued in court papers that few of
the vehicles in question have experienced any sign of sudden,
unintended acceleration and few owners have sustained any
financial loss.  The cases are combined as In re Toyota Motor Corp.
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Callahan  in San Diego
at   callahan@san.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 