-- HP's Apotheker, Like Carmen Sandiego, Is Focus at Oracle Trial
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-11-10T14:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/hp-s-apotheker-like-carmen-san-diego-is-focus-at-oracle-trial.html
The hottest new game at the  Oracle
Corp. -SAP AG infringement trial has become “Where in the World
is  Leo Apotheker ?”  Oracle lawyers want to put the former SAP chief executive
officer on the stand in federal court in Oakland, California, to
testify about the conduct of a now-defunct  SAP  unit that
illegally downloaded Oracle’s copyrighted software. Apotheker, a
22-year SAP veteran, was on the software maker’s executive board
when it bought TomorrowNow in 2005, and he oversaw the unit’s
sales, according to court documents and trial testimony.  Apotheker, who resigned from SAP in February, was hired by
 Hewlett - Packard Co.  in September and was to start as CEO on Nov.
1. HP has refused to accept papers seeking to call Apotheker to
the stand, and Oracle attorneys have said they can’t find him.  “We are trying real hard to find him and he’s trying real
hard not to let us find him,”  David Boies , Oracle’s lead
attorney at the trial, said Nov. 8. “We’ve got to find him, and
we’ve got to find him in California.”  Apotheker gave an interview to the Nikkei business daily on
Nov. 5, published in Japanese a day later, that said he was in
Tokyo.  Redwood City, California-based  Oracle , which has a video of
sworn testimony that Apotheker gave its lawyers in 2008, says
it’s important for the jury in Oakland to hear live testimony
from him. Oracle claims Apotheker, 57, “was at the center of
the infringement” and “personally approved” the activities of
the Bryan, Texas-based TomorrowNow software maintenance unit,
Boies said in a news conference outside the courthouse in
Oakland.  $2 Billion Sought  Oracle, the  second-largest maker  of software for business
applications behind Walldorf, Germany-based SAP, is seeking
damages of as much as $2 billion in the trial.  HP said Nov. 3 that Apotheker had limited knowledge 
of TomorrowNow. Oracle is trying to harass him and interfere 
with his new role at HP, said  Mylene Mangalindan , a spokeswoman 
for the Palo Alto, California-based company, in an e-mailed 
statement on Nov. 3.  Oracle included Apotheker as a trial witness only after he
joined HP following CEO  Mark Hurd ’s resignation. Hurd left after
a scandal that involved his relationship an HP contractor, who
previously had been a reality television and adult-themed film
actress.  Hurd’s Resignation  Larry Ellison , Oracle’s CEO, hired Hurd and criticized HP
over Hurd’s resignation, saying in an August e-mail to the New
York Times that it was the “worst personnel decision since the
idiots on the Apple board fired  Steve Jobs .”  Ray Lane , HP’s chairman-designate, said in a letter to the
Times in October that “Hurd violated the trust of the board by
repeatedly lying to them” during an investigation into his
conduct.  Asked whether  Oracle  had hired private investigators as
Reuters reported to locate Apotheker, Boies responded, “I think
it would be appropriate to hire people to try to locate him.”  A subpoena requiring someone to appear as a witness must be
delivered to the individual in person, said  Don Fritsch ,
president of American Legal Investigation Services Inc., a Santa
Ana, California-based company that tracks down witnesses.  Finding someone “all comes down to the time we have to do
it, the budget the client has to spend, the amount of private
investigator skill and luck,” Fritsch said yesterday in a phone
interview.  ‘Evading Service’  “Certainly you have situations where people are evading
service,” said Fritsch, whose company isn’t involved in the
Oracle case. “In today’s world, we don’t have to be in a
physical location to get work done.”  David Levine, law professor at  Hastings College of the Law 
in San Francisco, said to avoid being served with a subpoena,
Apotheker would have to remain outside California.  John McCool, a spokesman for HP, said yesterday that the
company had no comment on the Apotheker subpoena beyond its Nov.
3 statement.  Oracle could go to U.S. District Judge  Phyllis Hamilton ,
who is presiding over the trial, tell her that it’s been unable
to locate Apotheker, and ask her to require HP to give the
subpoena to him, said Georgene Vairo, a professor at Loyola Law
School in Los Angeles.  “HP would really not want this guy to testify so he’s
doing a disappearing act,” Vairo said yesterday in a phone
interview. “If he can’t be found in California, it becomes more
difficult. He is not under control of either party in this
litigation.”  Oracle fell 11 cents to $28.63 at 9:34 a.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Hewlett-Packard climbed 27 cents
to $44.39 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The case is Oracle Corp. v. SAP AG, 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in federal court in Oakland, California, at 
   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 