-- Palestinian Authority to Get $150 Million Additional U.S. Aid to Pare Debt
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2010-11-10T18:35:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/palestinian-authority-to-get-150-million-additional-u-s-aid-to-pare-debt.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
today said the U.S. gave $150 million in direct aid to help the
cash-strapped Palestinian Authority close its budget
deficit, after direct peace talks with Israel stalled.  The assistance to the government led by President  Mahmoud Abbas  is an advance on $200 million requested in fiscal 2011 for
the Economic Support Fund, the State Department said. Total aid
to the Palestinians for fiscal 2010 is almost $600 million.  This “underscores the strong determination of the American
people and of this administration to stand with our Palestinian
friends even during difficult economic times as we have here at
home,” Clinton said, during a video conference with Palestinian
Prime Minister  Salam Fayyad .  Clinton is scheduled to meet tomorrow in New York with
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , seeking to get Israel
and the Palestinians to resume U.S.-mediated peace talks
intended to lead to a Palestinian state. The negotiations
stalled on Sept. 26 at the end of a partial 10-month freeze on
Israeli settlement construction in the West Bank.  Abbas has said he won’t continue the talks unless Israel
stops settlement building.  Clinton today said the U.S. was “deeply disappointed” by
the announcement of plans for new housing units in what she
called “sensitive areas in east Jerusalem,” calling it
“counterproductive to our efforts to resume negotiations
between the parties.”  ‘Broad Understandings’  Netanyahu, in a text message today after meeting with
former Secretary of State  Henry Kissinger , said he and Clinton
will discuss “ways to reach a peace agreement based on broad
understandings with the Palestinian people and maybe even with
other nations in the Arab world.”  In an interview with Bloomberg Television yesterday,
Netanyahu said Palestinian complaints about Israeli settlement
construction were “a minor issue” that has become “way
overblown.”  The U.S. has previously advanced cash to the Palestinian
Authority to meet a financial emergency around the Oct. 1 start
of the U.S. fiscal year. Democratic President  Barack Obama 
agreed to front-load $75 million of assistance in November 2009,
and Republican President  George W. Bush  gave the go-ahead for
the transfer of $150 million in October 2008.  Aid Scrutiny  Palestinian aid plans by the Obama administration may come
under scrutiny under a Republican-dominated House of
Representatives that will control the purse strings. When
Republicans take control next year after winning a House
majority in this month’s elections, Florida Representative
 Ileana Ros-Lehtinen , a vocal supporter of Israel, is in line to
lead the Foreign Affairs Committee.  New York Representative  Nita Lowey , the current Democratic
chairwoman of the House Appropriations subcommittee for foreign
operations, put a hold on direct aid to the Palestinian
Authority twice in 2007 and 2008 when Bush was in office. She
had the power to request details on how the funds would be
allocated and seek assurances about the recipients.  Fayyad has asked donors for about $500 million to help
close his budget deficit. The Palestinian Authority needed $1.2
billion in aid in 2009 and $1.8 billion in 2008. Fayyad vowed to
balance his budget by 2013.  The European Union on Nov. 4 gave 20.7 million euros ($28.5
million) toward the salaries and pensions of about 85,000
public-sector employees. In September, Saudi Arabia transferred
$100 million to the Palestinian Authority and the United Arab
Emirates gave $42 million.  Bilateral Aid  Total U.S. bilateral aid to Palestinians is composed of
$150 million in direct budgetary assistance to the Palestinian
Authority; $102 million in aid to establish rule of law and
security; $244 million from the U.S. Agency for International
Development; $75 million in U.S. contributions to the United
Nations Relief Agency for Palestinian Refugees known as UNRWA;
and $10 million allocated for schools in the territory.  Excluding the contributions to UNRWA, U.S. bilateral
assistance to Palestinians is forecast to be $502.9 million this
year and $550 million in 2011, according to the State Department
and the Congressional Research Service.  U.S. aid to Palestinians ballooned to $980 million in 2009
to meet a humanitarian emergency in the Gaza Strip in the
aftermath of a 22-day conflict between Israel and the Hamas
movement, designated a terrorist group by the U.S. and Europe.  Since the death of Palestinian leader  Yasser Arafat  in
November 2004, aid has averaged about $400 million a year. That
compares with about $75 million in annual U.S. aid during the
1990s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in Washington at  fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  