-- Palestinians Will Ask Security Council to Halt Israel's West Bank Building
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-11-10T22:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/palestinians-will-ask-security-council-to-halt-israel-s-west-bank-building.html
The Palestinian Authority will begin
negotiations with members of the  United Nations  Security Council
on a draft resolution demanding that Israel halt West Bank
settlement activity, its envoy to the world body said.  Palestinian Authority Ambassador  Riyad Mansour  met today in
New York with Ambassador  Mark Lyall Grant  of the U.K., which
holds the rotating presidency of the Security Council this
month, to inform him of the plan to meet with the
representatives of the panel’s 15 member governments. Mansour
said he hoped the council would take action before the end of
November.  “With the intensification of the settlement activity,
particularly in Jerusalem, we are coming to the  Security Council 
to request action to bring Israel into compliance with
international law,” Mansour told reporters after the meeting.  Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  asked Mansour
to seek a Security Council discussion of Israeli settlement
construction, spokesman  Nabil Abu Rudeina  said in a statement
published today by the government-run Palestinian news agency
Wafa.  An Israeli official responded by saying a resolution to the
Middle East conflict will come only through direct negotiations
with Israel’s government. The official spoke on condition of
anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to comment on the
Palestinian action.  East Jerusalem  Abbas made the request after Israel published plans to
build homes in east Jerusalem, which the Palestinians claim as
the capital of their state.  Israel captured the area from Jordan in the 1967 Middle
East war and later annexed it in a move never internationally
recognized.  Direct peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians,
which started Sept. 2 in Washington, stalled on Sept. 26 when
Israel ended a partial 10-month freeze on settlement
construction in the West Bank. Abbas has said he won’t continue
the talks unless Israel stops building settlements.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  is scheduled to
meet tomorrow in New York with U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  about ways to resume the peace talks. In a text message
today after meeting with former Secretary of State  Henry Kissinger , Netanyahu said he and Clinton will discuss “ways to
reach a peace agreement based on broad understandings with the
Palestinian people and maybe even with other nations in the Arab
world.”  Arab Group  Mansour said that ambassadors from the most recent, current
and next chairmen of the Arab Group will join him in talks with
Security Council members and entities such as the  Organization
of the Islamic Conference . Mauritania held the rotating
chairmanship of the group last month and Morocco is the current
head. Next month’s chairman hasn’t been determined.  Mansour said it was possible that the Palestinian Authority
might revive a draft resolution tabled by Libya two years ago.
The resolution, which called for a halt to settlement activity,
was never put to a vote.  In an interview with Bloomberg Television in New York
yesterday, Netanyahu called Palestinian complaints about Israeli
settlement construction “way overblown.” He said previous
settlement construction hadn’t prevented Egypt or Jordan from
concluding peace agreements with Israel.  About 500,000 Jews have moved to the West Bank and
Jerusalem since Israel captured the territories in the 1967
Middle East war. The UN says the settlements are illegal, and
the International Committee of the Red Cross says they breach
the  Fourth Geneva Convention  governing actions on occupied
territory.  Israel says the settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to any
country before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and
therefore isn’t occupied.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  