-- Palin's `Hopey Changey' Quip Drapes Nelson's Comedy in a Sneer: John Simon
-- B y   J o h n   S i m o n
-- 2010-11-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/palin-s-hopey-changey-quip-drapes-nelson-s-comedy-in-a-sneer-john-simon.html
Always smart but sometimes less than
dramatic, playwright  Richard Nelson  takes on a well-nigh
impossible challenge with “That Hopey Changey Thing.”  The pleasurable result, on view at the  Public Theater , is a
one-act play set during a family dinner on Election Day, 2010
that entails both political and psychological problems,
discussion rather than heated debate and lively dissension
rather than violent clash.  We get three Apple sisters, one Apple uncle, Ben (a once
successful actor mentally challenged by a heart attack) and one
Apple brother, Richard.  A former counselor to various attorneys general, Richard is
switching to corporate legal practice and becoming the sole
Republican in a Democratic family. He is a cheerful defender of
 Sarah Palin , whose grinning Tea Party attack on  President Barack Obama  -- “How’s that hopey-changey thing working out for ya?”
-- gives the play its name.  The sisters are married, but separated Jane, a writer who
has brought along Tim, her considerably younger actor lover;
Marian, a grade-school teacher in Rhinebeck, New York (the
play’s locale), whose politico husband is busy elsewhere on
election night; and Barbara, the housewife hostess, a formerly
promising writer, now chiefly Uncle Ben’s custodian.  Chic Town  Rhinebeck, a historic Hudson Valley town, is the ideal
location for a sheltered family repast. The six actors, mostly
eating and imbibing throughout, add to the surface coziness of
the situation.  The play unfolds with astute observations on Richard’s
complicated private life, Ben’s disturbing memory lapses and
Jane’s problems with writing about changing American manners.
Over all looms the shock of a Democratic family member turning
Republican, and the current political situation with most of the
actual names named.  So we have a  neo-Chekhovian  serious comedy, with
conflicting viewpoints eloquently yet understatedly represented.
It may not add up to the most stirring theater, but it deals
provocatively and entertainingly with political realities.  And what glorious, ensemble performances!  Jay O. Sanders makes Richard sneeringly pugnacious as well
as solicitous, his often pungent comments on Palin, Senator
 Kirsten Gillibrand , former governor  Eliot Spitzer  and a host of
others lustily delivered. As the Apple hostess, Maryann Plunkett
is the perfect incarnation of a typical bourgeoise who gave up
her literary ambitions.  Young Lover  As the somewhat underwritten Jane, J. Smith-Cameron
nevertheless manages to convey the problems of both a history
writer and an older woman with a young lover. As that lover,
Tim, Shuler Hensley neatly portrays the somewhat timid outsider
who, as also a younger actor, is eager for a respected older
colleague’s even impaired thespian savvy.  Laila Robins, as Marian, splendidly incarnates the rural
liberal’s smugness; with her rich voice and vocal control she
can make the four syllables of “Republican” resonate with icy
contempt. As Uncle Benjamin Apple, Jon de Vries is an impeccable
blend of the funny and pathetic, displaying remnants of
theatrical aptitude along with rather patchy awareness.  Through Nov. 14 at 425 Lafayette St. Information: +1-212-
967-7555;  http://www.publictheater.org 
Rating: ***  ( John Simon  is the New York drama critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Simon in New York at  jis1925@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 