-- Palm Oil Inventories in Malaysia Increase to 9-Month High on Output Growth
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m   a n d   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m
-- 2010-11-10T06:58:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/palm-oil-inventories-in-malaysia-increase-to-9-month-high-on-output-growth.html
Palm oil stockpiles in Malaysia, the
world’s second-largest producer, climbed to the highest level in
nine months after output increased and exports dropped.  Inventories of the edible oil, used mostly in cooking,
gained 4.9 percent to 1.79 million metric tons in October from a
month earlier, the Malaysian Palm Oil Board said in a statement
today. Output climbed 4.71 percent to 1.64 million tons, the
highest monthly production in a year, and exports dropped 0.6
percent to 1.46 million tons, it said.  Palm oil futures have climbed to the highest level in more
than two years on speculation that the increase in production in
Malaysia may lag behind consumption and record Chinese demand
for soybeans will keep prices of the rival oil high.  “Demand for palm oil may remain subdued with winter
setting in countries like India,” Prasoon Mathur, an analyst at
Religare Commodities Ltd., said by phone from Noida, near New
Delhi. “We can expect some pressure on prices in the near term
also because palm oil has rallied so much in such a short
time.”  January-delivery futures on the Malaysia Derivatives
Exchange gained as much as 1.4 percent today to 3,410 ringgit
($1,101) a ton, the highest level since July 2008.  Palm oil is the world’s most-used plant oil, accounting for
33 percent of global vegetable-oil consumption, according to
estimates from the U.S. Department of Agriculture. It’s followed
by soybean and rapeseed oils, which make up 28 percent and 16
percent of use, respectively, the USDA says.  Exports from Malaysia fell 1.1 percent to 390,534 tons in
the first 10 days of November from the same period a month
earlier, independent market surveyor Intertek said today.  Palm oil in Malaysia has rallied for 10 weeks, gaining
about 32 percent on concern heavy rain may disrupt harvests in
Malaysia and Indonesia.  “The outlook for vegetable oils remains bullish because
the supply shortfall can’t be met in the short term,”
Religare’s Mathur said. “There could be some profit taking from
the end of November because of technical reasons.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ranjeetha Pakiam  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net . 