-- Panamericano to Get $1.5 Billion Injection From Silvio Santos, Changes CEO
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a   a n d   R o b i n   S t r i n g e r
-- 2010-11-10T10:40:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/panamericano-to-get-1-5-billion-injection-from-silvio-santos-changes-ceo.html
Banco Panamericano SA ’s controlling
shareholder, Grupo  Silvio Santos , will inject 2.5 billion reais
($1.5 billion) into the bank to shore up capital. The lender
said it shuffled the board and named a new chief executive
officer after finding “accounting inconsistencies.”  The cash injection aims to “preserve current levels of
capital in light of the uncovering of accounting inconsistencies
that don’t allow financial statements to reflect the actual
capital situation of the institution,” the Sao Paulo-based bank
said yesterday in a filing. The central bank is investigating
whether fraud was committed, Valor newspaper reported today.  Panamericano named  Celso Antunes da Costa  as chief
executive officer, replacing  Rafael Palladino , and seven new
executive directors, according to the filing. The bank was the
victim of a fraud,  O Estado de S. Paulo  newspaper reported,
citing unidentified people familiar with the situation.  Fictitious assets and credits registered by the bank’s
directors inflated its results, O Estado said. The fraud wasn’t
discovered by internal controls or independent auditors, the
newspaper said.  Grupo Silvio Santos, owned by Brazilian media mogul  Silvio Santos , will borrow the cash from the country’s deposit
insurance fund, according to a statement released by
Panamericano.  Brazil’s central bank has approved the transaction,
Panamericano said in the statement. The central bank declined to
comment on the matter because “it is a deal between private
parties,” the institution’s press office said in an e-mailed
statement. Panamericano’s press office declined to comment.  Panamericano’s preferred shares  have tumbled  11 percent
this week, closing at 6.77 reais yesterday, the  lowest  in more
than a year.  Brazil state bank  Caixa Economica Federal  paid 739.3
million reais for a 35 percent share in Banco Panamericano in
December 2009. The lender also sold $300 million of five-year
bonds to yield 5.625 percent in July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net ;
 Robin Stringer  in Sao Paulo at 
 rstringer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net . 