-- Panamericano Sinks After $1.5 Billion Rescue Prompts Probe
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i ,   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o   a n d   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2010-11-11T00:35:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/panamericano-bonds-shares-sink-on-brazil-probe-after-1-5-billion-rescue.html
(Corrects spelling of Hoffmann if fifth, sixth paragraphs.)  Banco Panamericano SA , the Brazilian
lender controlled by media mogul  Silvio Santos , sank 30 percent
and bonds tumbled as the central bank began probing accounting
irregularities after a 2.5 billion reais ($1.5 billion) rescue.  The  stock  dropped to 4.77 reais in Sao Paulo, a fourth
straight decline. The yield on Panamericano’s 8.5 percent bonds
due in 2020 soared 182 basis points, or 1.82 percentage points,
to 9.22 percent, according to Trace. Shares of the smallest
publicly-traded banks in Brazil fell as the investigation raised
concern over industry accounting norms.  “People don’t know what the extent of the case is,” said
 Cornel Bruhin , who oversees $600 million of emerging-market
corporate bonds in Zurich at Clariden Leu AG. “Is there more to
come? What are the potential risks? It’s too early to tell.”  The central bank is investigating whether Panamericano
executives could face liability, said an official who asked that
his name not be used in accordance with government policy.
Brazil’s central bank found “inconsistencies” in
Panamericano’s accounts during its routine supervision of the
financial system, according to a statement posted on its website
today.  Six Weeks  Bank regulators first identified a problem six weeks ago
based on June 30 accounts when they noticed discrepancies
between the volume of credit the bank said it sold and other
banks said they bought, central bank Supervision Director Alvir
Hoffmann said at a press conference in Brasilia. The central
bank probe may cover as much as four years, he said, adding that
the central bank hasn’t determined when the irregularities
began.  The investigation will lead to an internal study on how
banks negotiate the sales of groups of loans to ensure a bank
doesn’t sell them more than once or sell and then keep them on
its books, Hoffmann said. The central bank has no evidence of
similar problems at other banks, he said.  Panamericano, a Sao Paulo-based bank focused on personal
credit and mortgages, received funding yesterday from its
controlling shareholder Grupo  Silvio Santos , which tapped
Brazil’s bank-financed deposit insurance fund, known as FGC.
Panamericano replaced its chief executive officer and shuffled
its board after uncovering “accounting inconsistencies” that
misrepresented the company’s assets, according to a statement to
regulators.  With the funds, the bank’s cash position rose to 3.8
billion reais, enough to maintain solvency, according to an e-
mailed statement from the bank today. Credit and investment
operations are continuing as normal, the bank said.  Public Funds  The loan is the second-largest in FGC’s history after a
bailout of 3 billion reais to Banco Bamerindus do Brasil SA in
1997. That same year, London-based HSBC Holdings Plc acquired
control of Bamerindus in a transaction worth $1 billion.  No public funds are being used in the operation to
stabilize Panamericano, the central bank said.  Securities regulators and shareholders are also conducting
investigations, said a person familiar with the matter, who
declined to be identified because the probes are confidential.  Brazil’s Senate Justice Committee called central bank
President  Henrique Meirelles  to a hearing on Panamericano,
according to a statement posted on the senate’s website. The
committee also invited Caixa Economica Federal’s President  Maria Fernanda Ramos Coelho . The central bank called a press
conference in Brasilia for 2:30 p.m. New York time.  “We would expect investors to become concerned with other
bank’s shares, particularly mid-sized banks, until there is more
clarity if this is contained to Panamericano, or if other banks
might also be subject to central bank’s scrutiny,” analysts
 Roberto Attuch  and  Fabio Zagatti  from Barclays Capital wrote in
a report today.  Limited Fallout  The analysts said they expect the fallout from
Panamericano’s rescue to be limited because the controlling
shareholder acted in time to restore liquidity, a state-owned
bank is an owner and Panamericano is small in size.  Caixa  paid 739 million reais for a 35 percent stake in
Panamericano in December. Panamericano had total assets of 11.8
billion reais at the end of the first quarter, and a credit
portfolio of 10.5 billion reais, compared with 9.9 billion reais
in the previous quarter, according to its  website . The lender
ranks as Brazil’s 21st largest bank by assets, according to the
central bank.  New CEO  The cash injection aims to “preserve current levels of
capital,” Panamericano said in a filing yesterday. Panamericano
named  Celso Antunes da Costa  as chief executive officer,
replacing  Rafael Palladino , and seven new executive directors,
according to the filing.  An official at Brasilia-based  Caixa  who asked not to be
identified declined to comment. The securities regulator based
in Rio de Janeiro and known as CVM said in a statement it
doesn’t comment on specific cases. Deloitte & Touche LLP,
Panamericano’s auditor, declined to comment, according to an e-
mailed statement.  Banco Industrial e Comercial SA  tumbled 5.4 percent to 15
reais,  Banco Pine SA  fell 2.6 percent to 13.50 reais,  Banco
Cruzeiro do Sul SA  slid 1.3 percent to 14.95 reais and Parana
Banco SA lost 4.4 percent, the most since June, to 14 reais.  “The market could start challenging their accounting
practices, provisioning criteria,”  Marcelo Telles , an analyst
at Credit Suisse, wrote in a note to clients today. Smaller
banks “will be under the scrutiny of regulators to adopt more
conservative accounting practices, requiring extra capital and
limiting their growth capacity,” he said.  Bigger Banks  The country’s bigger banks rose, with  Itau  Unibanco Holding
SA, Latin America’s largest bank by market value, increasing 1.2
percent to 42.85 reais. Banco Bradesco SA, Brazil’s second-
biggest bank by market value, rose 1.4 percent to 36.50 reais.  Grupo Silvio Santos said yesterday it sought funding from
FGC, which was set up by Brazil’s Monetary Council in 1995 with
financing from banks that operate in Brazil and can be tapped in
the event of intervention, liquidation, bankruptcy or central
bank-declared insolvency, according to its website.  The Sao Paulo-based group, whose holdings include
television stations, a cosmetics company and an electronics
retailer, put up assets as collateral for the loans from the
deposit insurance fund, according to the Panamericano statement.  Silvio Santos, 79, known for his appearances on Sunday
afternoon variety shows such as a Brazilian equivalent of “Name
That Tune” on his SBT TV chain, is willing to sell assets if
necessary to repay the loan to rescue the bank,  Antonio Carlos Bueno , director of Brazil’s deposit insurance fund, said at a
press conference in Sao Paulo today.  Greek Immigrant  Santos, the son of a Greek immigrant who came to Brazil in
the 1920s, started selling plastic document holders at 14 in the
streets of downtown Rio de Janeiro, and later sold watches,
pens, books and other items on the ferries that link cities
along Rio’s Guanabara Bay.  Moody’s Investors Service placed Panamericano on review for
a possible downgrade of its credit rating today because of the
“rapid drop in market valuation” over the past few days, the
announcement of the capital injection and the replacement of the
management team, according to an e-mailed statement.  The stock dropped 11 percent in the two days before the
bank released last night’s statement to regulators. The
company’s bonds due in 2020 fell 11.9 cents to 95.5 cents on the
dollar today after sinking as low as 80 cents earlier.
Panamericano sold $500 million of the notes in international
markets in April at a price of 99 cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Adriana Brasileiro  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net ;
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net . 