-- PDVSA Becomes First to Win Trading Approval in Chavez's Public Bond Market
-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2010-11-10T17:04:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/pdvsa-bonds-authorized-to-trade-in-state-market-broadening-access-to-debt.html
Venezuela’s Finance Ministry will
allow  Petroleos de Venezuela SA  bonds to be traded in the state-
run Public Bond Market in an effort to expand access to local
debt securities.  PDVSA was given authorization by the Securities
Superintendent to have $3 billion of bonds maturing in 2017 and
sold on Oct. 25 traded on the exchange, according to a
resolution published today in the Official Gazette and dated
Oct. 8. It’s the first company that’s received permission to
operate in the market.  Lawmakers at the  National Assembly  approved the creation of
the Public Bond Market on Nov. 4, which will allow state
companies, joint ventures and private firms to issue debt on the
exchange. Those bonds can then be traded, giving Venezuelans a
way to buy dollar debt without going to the central bank, which
currently controls such actions. The bill must be published in
the Official Gazette to become law.  “This is an important first step to supply the Public Bond
Market with ammunition in order to begin transactions of
securities in the secondary market,” Alberto Cardenas, head of
strategy at BancTrust & Co. in Caracas, said. “This could give
greater liquidity to the dollar-denominated bond market, but we
still have to wait for the final terms before knowing under what
conditions the PDVSA notes will be sold.”  Currency Market  President Hugo Chavez dismantled an unregulated currency
market in May, blaming brokerages for setting artificial
exchange rates, laundering money and fueling capital flight.
Chavez, who devalued the bolivar in January and created a multi-
tiered exchange system, called for the creation of a socialist
bourse to create investment and financing options for state-run
companies.  Chavez originally called on PDVSA to sell the bonds through
the Public Bond Market on Aug. 19.  Venezuela, the largest oil producer in South America, sells
dollars to importers at 2.6 bolivars per dollar or 4.3 depending
on the article, and the central bank administers a bond trading
market to obtain currency with an average exchange rate of 5.3
per dollar.  “The Public Bond Market is an additional financing vehicle
for PDVSA,” Asdrubal Oliveros, director of Caracas-based
Ecoanalitica, said in a phone interview. “This doesn’t directly
create a new currency market, because companies and individuals
that buy the bonds in the secondary market will still have to go
to the central bank to obtain dollars.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Rodriguez Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  