-- PetroChina, Shell Sign Canada Oil, China Gas Accords
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-10T02:18:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/petrochina-shell-sign-canada-oil-china-coal-bed-methane-pacts.html
PetroChina Co.  and  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc  agreed to study energy projects in Canada and China as
Asia’s largest oil company seeks global partners to benefit from
growing energy demand.  The companies agreed yesterday to cooperate on an oil and
gas project in Canada and to jointly evaluate the Daning coal-
bed methane block in the Ordos basin in Inner Mongolia,  Mao Zefeng , a spokesman for Hong Kong-listed PetroChina, said in a
telephone interview today, without giving further details.  Chinese energy demand will jump 75 percent by 2035,
accounting for more than a third of global demand growth, the
International Energy Agency said in a report yesterday.
PetroChina plans to increase cooperation with foreign energy
companies to accelerate its global expansion, President  Zhou Jiping  said in August.  PetroChina Chairman Jiang Jiemin and Shell Chief Executive
Officer Peter Voser signed the agreements in Beijing yesterday,
according to PetroChina’s parent company  China National
Petroleum Corp.  Li Lusha, a Beijing-based spokeswoman for
Shell’s China operations, confirmed the accords in a separate
telephone interview today.  The two companies have already agreed to work together on
energy projects in China and Australia. They signed a joint
shale-gas assessment agreement for the Fushun-Yongchuan block in
Sichuan last year. That was Shell’s second gas exploration
venture in mainland China following a project at the Changbei
gas field in Shaanxi province.  Coal-Bed Methane  Shell and PetroChina also completed an A$3.5 billion ($3.5
billion) joint acquisition of Australia’s coal-bed methane
producer Arrow Energy Ltd. in August.  China, the world’s fastest-growing major economy, may
source one-third of its unconventional gas supply from coal
seams by 2030, Wood Mackenzie Consultants Ltd. said in a report
on Aug. 24.  PetroChina plans to spend at least $60 billion in the next
decade on overseas acquisitions, Jiang said in March. The oil
producer last year won approval from the Canadian government for
a C$1.9 billion ($1.9 billion) bid to buy a stake in two Alberta
oil-sands projects, its biggest North American acquisition.  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 