-- Petrobras May Invest About $400 Billion Through 2020
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2010-11-10T17:12:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/petrobras-may-invest-400-billion-through-2020-on-finds-minister-says.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA , Brazil’s
state-controlled oil producer, may invest about $400 billion
through 2020 as it seeks to develop the Americas’ biggest crude
discoveries in more than three decades, a minister said.  Petrobras investments in the Brazilian oil industry will
create opportunities for companies such as General Electric Co.,
Trade and Development Minister  Miguel Jorge  said today in Rio de
Janeiro. GE said today it will expand production of equipment
for the oil and transportation industries in Brazil, Latin
America’s largest economy.  Brazil is among “the really fast-growing areas of the
world,” fueled by the oil and mining industries,  Ferdinando Beccalli-Falco , head of GE’s international operations, said in
Rio de Janeiro. “Brazil is going to economically explode.”  Petrobras previously announced plans to invest $224 billion
in the five years through 2014, the global oil industry’s
biggest spending plan. The Rio de Janeiro-based company said it
will revise its investment plan next year to include the
development of new oil reserves it bought from the government as
part of a $70 billion share sale, the largest in history.  Petrobras is developing the offshore Tupi field and may
take a minimum stake of 30 percent in the government’s Libra
field, the Americas’ biggest oil discoveries since Mexico’s
Cantarell in 1976. Tupi and Libra, which may hold as much as 8
billion barrels and 15 billion barrels, respectively, are in a
deep-water region known as the pre-salt along Brazil’s coast.  ‘Nowhere But Up’  “When you’re talking about the next 10 years, $400 billion
may actually be light,” said Gianna Bern, president of
Brookshire Advisory and Research Inc., a Chicago-based risk-
management adviser to oil producers.  “Deepwater exploration costs are going nowhere but up,”
she said in a telephone interview.  Exxon Mobil Corp.,  the world’s largest oil company by
market value, is investing about $25 billion a year to replace
the amount of reserves it produces each year, said  Robbert Van Batenburg , head of equity research at Louis Capital Markets LP
in New York. Petrobras will spend about $40 billion a year to
more than double proven reserves in the coming years, he said.  Petrobras will need to sell $32 billion of new debt through
2014 and roll over an additional $38 billion as it seeks to
double production over the next decade, Chief Executive Officer
 Jose Sergio Gabrielli  told reporters in Rio de Janeiro
yesterday.  Petrobras fell 5 centavos, or 0.2 percent, to 27.07 reais
at 2:54 p.m. in Sao Paulo trading. The stock has dropped 26
percent this year, compared with a 3.6 percent gain for the
benchmark Bovespa index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Millard  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  