-- Philippine Stocks Retreat Most in Three Months; Developers Lead Declines
-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n
-- 2010-11-10T05:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/philippine-stocks-retreat-most-in-three-months-developers-lead-declines.html
Philippine stocks  dropped, with the
benchmark index slumping the most since Aug. 24, as investors
speculated recent gains were overdone. The peso declined.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index  fell 1.6 percent to
4,197.57 at the 12 p.m. close, capping a fourth day of losses
and paring this year’s gain to 38 percent.  Alliance Global Group
Inc. , the owner of the nation’s second-biggest developer, and
DMCI Holdings Inc., the biggest construction company, tumbled
more than 5 percent.  Energy Development Corp. , the largest
geothermal company, retreated 3.3 percent.  “This is profit-taking pure and simple,” said  James Lago ,
analyst at PCCI Securities Brokers Corp. “Investors are moving
out of stocks that are deemed expensive. Property and energy
companies are among the biggest gainers this year and a number
of these stocks are valued out of the market.”  Benchmark stock gauges in Southeast Asia are among the
world’s best performers this year as the region’s exports
rebounded and investors sought higher yields amid near-zero
benchmark interest rates in the U.S. The rally drove the
Philippine index to 15 times earnings, the Jakarta Composite
Index to a multiple of 18.4 and the FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI
Index to 16.3.  Inflows into emerging-market stock funds have surpassed $60
billion and exceeded $46 billion in bonds, with both poised for
their best year since Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global
started tracking them in 1995.  Margin of Error  Morgan Stanley advised reducing holdings in Southeast Asia
and buying “cheap” stocks in South Korea and China. High
earnings growth expectations are embedded in valuations for some
Southeast Asian markets, leaving them “no margin of error” for
unexpected interest-rate increases,  Jonathan Garner , Hong Kong-
based chief Asian and emerging-market strategist, said yesterday.  Alliance Global  fell 5.4 percent to 10.80 pesos, trimming
this year’s gain to 160 percent.  DMCI , which expanded to
property development, sank 6.5 percent to 35.05 pesos, after
more than tripling this year.  Stocks also fell as the peso dropped for a fourth day after
President  Benigno Aquino  said the government is preparing
measures to cool gains in the currency that hurt exporters. The
peso traded at 43.395 per dollar at the noon break from a close
of 43.36 yesterday, according to Tullett Prebon Plc.  “It’s unfavorable for investors to come in now that the
peso is depreciating,” said DBP-Daiwa research head  Ron Rodrigo .
“Investors were buying stocks when the peso was rising.”  Energy Development  declined 3.3 percent to 5.59 pesos after
the government said it will review licenses for renewable energy
projects.  “A policy review in light of government’s plan to raise
revenue implies higher fees or taxes for renewable energy
projects,” Lago said. “This uncertainty could prompt companies
to hold off on their renewable energy expansion projects for a
while.”  Aboitiz Power Corp. , which owns hydro-electric plants,
declined 3.2 percent to 29.05 pesos, its sharpest loss since
June 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian C. Sayson  in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  