-- Philips Takes on GE, Intel for $8 Billion Remote Health Sales
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2010-11-10T23:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/philips-vies-with-ge-intel-for-remote-health-care-sales-worth-8-billion.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV  aims to
prove remote health-monitoring can be efficient and save cash as
it competes against companies including  General Electric Co.  and
 Intel Corp.  in a market that may exceed $8 billion by 2012.  “We’re trying to generate clinical and economic evidence
of telehealth’s benefits such as saving money and managing
patients more effectively,”  Christoph Westerteicher , Philips
 TeleHealth  business director for the European Union, said in an
interview. Remote monitoring of patients with chronic problems,
such as heart failure and diabetes, is growing “and it’s set to
become more relevant for the medical community.”  Philips, the world’s largest maker of patient-monitoring
systems, has spent more than $10 billion buying health-care
assets since 2001. General Electric, the world’s biggest maker
of health-care imaging systems, and  Intel  formed a venture in
August to create products for patients with chronic diseases and
elderly people at home or in assisted-living accommodation.  “In Europe, currently millions of users still use first-
generation community alarms and heat sensors as health-
monitoring devices at home,” said Eramangalath Sujith, program
manager for health care at research firm Frost & Sullivan. More
advanced monitoring devices have now appeared and the global
telehealth market will expand to more than $8 billion by 2012
from about $6.5 billion last year, Sujith said.  Aging Population  Philips , based in Amsterdam, predicted in May that the
global health-care market in which it operates will grow by 4
percent to 5 percent annually from 2011 as aging populations and
lifestyle changes in emerging economies lead to more chronic,
cardiovascular and respiratory diseases.  “There is an absolute need to come up with new
technologies to be able to address the demographic changes,”
Westerteicher said. “Telehealth is a new way of supporting the
aging population. I see a definite opportunity there.”  Philips has been engaged in telehealth for more than 10
years and developed the  Motiva  platform, an interactive device
that connects patients and health-care providers through a home
television and broadband Internet.  Telehealth systems can provide medical staff with timely
information about patients’ health, allowing intervention before
a condition gets critical. This may save money for governments
through reduced hospital admissions and fewer emergency-room
trips, and it may help patients in rural areas.  Demonstration Projects  Countries including the U.K. are evaluating such services
by funding large demonstration projects. Philips’ Motiva is
being used by heart failure and diabetes patients in the London
Borough of Newham as part of the  Whole System Demonstrator 
project -- a two-year controlled trial conducted by the U.K.
Department of Health, said  Steve Klink , a Philips spokesman.  “The need for new solutions in health care is
incontestable,” Elizabeth Boehm, an analyst at Forrester
Research in Cambridge, Massachussets, said. “People are living
longer and health expenditures are growing in most nations.”  Challenges to getting telehealth solutions out in the
market include privacy and data management, she said.  Philips said in September that its health-care unit  aims 
for earnings before interest, taxes and amortization as a
percentage of sales of between 16 percent and 18 percent by
2015, more than its consumer lifestyle and lighting units.  Rising Costs  Within the  health-care division , Philips plans to expand
the home-care business from about 15 percent of sales to about
20 percent as care increasingly takes place at home,  Steve Rusckowski , the unit’s head, said in August. Beside telehealth,
home care includes  baby feeding  products and defibrillators.  Philips expects 2 billion people to be aged 60 or more by
2050, according to a July report by the company. As much as 80
percent of health-care costs are related to chronic diseases --
a figure that will rise -- moving the focus to continuous care,
it said.  The main obstacles in Europe to the development of
telehealth are the absence of payment systems for the services;
the need to develop models that integrate existing care
providers; and a general lack of awareness, Westerteicher said.  “In most countries there aren’t reimbursement structures”
involving insurance companies or national health-care services,
he said. “That’s why there are so many pilots.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chiara Remondini  in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net 
 Maud van Gaal  in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 