-- Aquino Gets Boost as Philippine Exports Climb at Fastest Pace Since 1981
-- B y   M a x   E s t a y o   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2010-11-10T04:21:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/philippine-exports-climb-at-fastest-pace-since-1981-in-fillip-for-aquino.html
Philippine  exports  rose at a record
pace in September as Asian demand boosted sales of electronics
goods, countering declining shipments to the U.S.  Sales abroad grew 46.1 percent from a year earlier to an
unprecedented $5.31 billion after rising 37 percent in August,
the National Statistics Office said in Manila today. That
exceeded the median forecast for a 29 percent gain in a
Bloomberg News  survey  of 11 economists and was the biggest jump
on record based on Bloomberg data going back to January 1981.  Philippine exports are showing more resilience than those
of neighbors including Malaysia and Indonesia where economic
growth is slowing as demand from the U.S. and Europe weakens.
Rising shipments abroad may support Philippine President  Benigno Aquino ’s efforts to expand the $160 billion economy by as much
as 8 percent annually from 2011.  “Demand is not as weak as a lot of people expected,” said
 Sherman Chan , a Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc.
“Growth momentum is very strong in the region and that has been
an increasingly important source of support for Philippine
exports.”  Philippine shipments to Singapore surged almost six times
and sales to China quadrupled, countering a decline in exports
to the U.S. and Netherlands. Electronics sales, which make up
more than half of Philippine exports, rose 54.6 percent to $3.48
billion in September from a year earlier, today’s report showed.  Strong Peso  Still, export growth may slow as the peso’s 6.2 percent
gain this year makes Philippine-manufactured  Texas Instruments
Inc.  semiconductors and Toyota Motor Corp. wiring harnesses more
expensive. The peso rose 0.1 percent to 43.39 per dollar as of
11:27 a.m. in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc.  “If the appreciation continues to take place, we may see
some softening” in export growth,  Emilio Neri , an economist at
Bank of the Philippine Islands in Manila, said before the
release.  Worldwide semiconductor sales rose 26.2 percent in
September from a year earlier, according to the Semiconductor
Industry Association.  “The Philippines specializes in the production and assembly
of components for fairly high value-added semiconductors,
exporting a lot of these products to Singapore and China, who
presumably then export on to the Western world,”  Robert Prior- Wandesforde , head of India and Southeast Asia Economics at
Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a note today. “The implication
seems to be either that the Philippines is very successfully
exploiting a niche in the global market place” or inventories
are stacking up somewhere, or both, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Max Estayo  in Manila at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  