-- Pimco Fuels Allianz Fund Unit as Deposits Surge to $56 Billion
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 2010-11-10T19:47:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/pimco-fuels-allianz-fund-unit-as-deposits-surge-to-56-billion-in-quarter.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
the Allianz SE fund unit overseen by  Mohamed El-Erian  and  Bill Gross , took in more money than any asset-management firm during
the third quarter, with more than $56 billion in deposits.  Allianz , Europe’s biggest insurer, said today its bond-
management unit’s operating profit rose 44 percent in the
quarter from a year earlier to 432 million euros ($593 million).
Pimco, with about $1.2 trillion in assets, accounts for almost
the entire fixed-income business at Munich-based Allianz, which
said the pace of new cash won’t continue if interest rates rise.  Pimco, best known for the bond funds it has run since 1974,
has attracted money as investors flock to top-performing fixed-
income managers in the wake of stock market swings and the
global financial crisis. BlackRock, the world’s biggest asset
manager, last month said it drew $15.6 billion in deposits.
Pimco’s pace of deposits may be hard to sustain if investor
preferences change, said  Oliver Baete , Allianz’s chief financial
officer.  “I think we had more net inflows into Pimco than we had
flows in the U.S. equity asset-management industry in all of
this year,” Baete said today in a conference call with
investors. “It’s due to the huge success of our friends at
Pimco that have just relentlessly focused on performance, now
obviously having a lot of support from the market as interest
rates are at the lowest point that I can imagine.”  Gross’s $256 billion  Pimco Total Return Fund , the world’s
biggest mutual fund, averaged gains of 8.9 percent in the past
five years, beating 98 percent of rivals, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The portion of Allianz bond assets
outperforming rivals rose to 91 percent as of Sept. 30 from 79
percent a year earlier, the firm said today.  ‘Not Sustainable’  Allianz reported fixed-income deposits of 127 billion euros
in the 12 months ended Sept. 30. Its third-quarter deposits
climbed 19 percent from the same period in 2009.  Baete said investors may turn away from fixed-income funds
and move to equities if interest rates increase from the near-
zero levels that they’ve been at for the past two years. The
deposits into bond funds are “probably not sustainable and we
are seeing the buildup of a new bubble,” Baete said.  In a July 28 interview with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Radio’s
“On the Economy,” Gross said Pimco had been attracting almost
$1 billion a week from investors.  Under Chief Executive Officer El-Erian, Pimco last year
began a push into equities as it looks to diversify beyond its
mainstay of bonds. The firm has hired portfolio managers from
Franklin Resources Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s asset-
management unit to open global equity funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam  in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  