-- Pound Slides Most Since May Versus Dollar as Ireland Hurts Risk Appetite
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2010-11-16T17:49:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/pound-trades-near-week-low-versus-dollar-before-quarterly-inflation-report.html
The pound slid the most in six
months versus the dollar, dropping below $1.60 as concern that
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will worsen pushed down stocks,
hurting demand for riskier assets.  The pound also fell against the euro as data showed U.K.
consumer prices rose 3.2 percent from a year earlier in October,
forcing Bank of England Governor Mervyn King to write a letter
of explanation to the Treasury for the fourth time this year.
The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slumped 2.2 percent as European
finance ministers meet to discuss possible aid for Ireland.  “Stocks are looking a little vulnerable and trading
weakly, so that’s negative for risk appetite, and obviously
sterling is suffering as a consequence,” said  Jeremy Stretch ,
executive director of foreign-exchange strategy at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce in London.  The pound slid 1.3 percent to $1.5853 at 5:45 p.m. in
London, the steepest decline since May 13 and the lowest level
in almost three weeks. It dropped 0.4 percent against the euro
to 84.94 pence.  Irish Prime Minister Brian Cowen, speaking to his nation’s
parliament late this afternoon, said he doubts a concrete
agreement will be reached to resolve the government’s fiscal
crisis at a meeting of European finance ministers today.
Progress has been made, though a tentative plan has yet to be
approved by the government, he said.  “The market is all focused on the EU finance ministers
meeting,” said  Lauren Rosborough , a senior strategist at
Westpac Banking Corp. in London. “The focus is definitely not
on the U.K. at the moment. I think the market’s just treading
water, holding its moves until we get more information about any
potential developments on the European front.”  ‘Policy Uncertainty’  Bank of England policy makers have split three ways on
whether to raise interest rates to curb inflation or add
stimulus to aid the recovery. Last week, King said the bank is
“ready to respond in either direction” as price rises are
equally likely to exceed or undershoot the 2 percent target over
two years.  Today’s inflation data “doesn’t necessarily mean less
chance of quantitative easing,” Rosborough said. “It just
means that there’s greater policy uncertainty going into 2011
and 2012.”  The pound has declined 3.2 percent against a basket of its
developed-country peers in 2010, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, making it the third-worst
performing currency after the euro and Norwegian krone.  U.K. government bonds fell, pushing the  10-year yield  up 3
basis points to 3.29 percent. The  two-year note  yield was little
changed at 1.09 percent.  Gilts have returned 6.9 percent this year, compared with a
7.7 percent gain for German bonds and a 7 percent increase for
U.S. Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucy Meakin  in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 