-- Poweo Raises 2010 Operating Loss Estimate in `Unsustainable' French Market
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-11-10T08:39:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/poweo-raises-2010-operating-loss-estimate-in-unsustainable-french-market.html
Poweo SA , whose biggest shareholder
is Verbund AG, said losses will be larger than previously
estimated and is studying strategic options as a planned
overhaul of France’s power market rules has yet to take effect.  “Full assessment of these options is being carried out
including related financing requirements and decisions will be
made public around the end of the year,” Poweo said in a
statement. Current liquidity “shall remain secured” until
decisions are made and there may be further restructuring and
additional “significant” asset write downs in the second half.  France’s current power market is “unsustainable,” the
Paris-based power company said, adding that it is “evaluating
various strategic options aimed at restoring the group’s
operating cash generation.”  Poweo said it will have a loss in earnings before interest
and taxes of 40 million euros to 50 million euros this year
“due to power and gas markets’ deterioration,” compared with
forecast for a loss of 20 million euros to 30 million euros.  The shares  fell  19 cents, or 2.4 percent, to 7.90 euros as
of 9:38 a.m. in Paris.  It is unclear when legislation on France’s electricity
market will take effect. The planned law, known as Nome, is
scheduled for a final vote in the National Assembly next week.
Under the plan, EDF will have to sell nuclear power to rivals,
giving them access to cheaper supply. The price of the
electricity hasn’t been fixed.  Poweo had forecast a loss this year and has stopped
recruiting customers because it can’t compete in the French
market. The utility is one of a few entrants taking on former
monopoly Electricite de France SA.  Poweo sells power and gas to businesses and households in
markets still dominated by EDF and GDF Suez SA, the former
monopoly holders until 2007.  Verbund AG , Austria’s biggest
utility, last year increased ownership in Poweo after buying
stock from founder  Charles Beigbeder . Verbund holds 46 percent
of Poweo.  Poweo today reported a 34 percent rise in nine-month
revenue to 502.5 million euros due to output from the Pont-sur-
Sambre plant. Power sales to clients fell 21 percent to 59.7
million euros in the third quarter compared with last year and
the number of customers fell 4.4 percent over the first nine
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  