-- Prudential Plc Insurance Sales Rise 17 Percent on Asian and U.S. Divisions
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2010-11-10T09:09:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/prudential-plc-insurance-sales-rise-17-percent-on-asian-and-u-s-divisions.html
Prudential Plc , the U.K.’s biggest
insurer, said third-quarter insurance revenue rose 17 percent on
higher sales at its Asian and U.S. divisions.  Revenue climbed to 809 million pounds ($1.3 billion) in the
three months to Sept. 30 from 689 million pounds a year earlier,
the London-based insurer said today in a statement. That beat
the 773 million-pound average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed
by the company.  “You have to stand back and look at the sheer scale
of the growth that they’re reporting,” said  Eamonn Flanagan ,
a Liverpool, England-based analyst at Shore Capital Plc with a
“buy” rating on Prudential. “Growth is bang in line with what
we were going with, but ahead of the market’s expectations.”  Chief Executive Officer Tidjane Thiam is seeking to
increase sales in Asia after Prudential shareholders scuppered
his record $35.5 billion bid for  American International Group
Inc. ’s Asian division. The CEO is now in direct competition with
predecessor  Mark Tucker , who now heads AIA Group Ltd. and led
the company to a successful initial public offering last month.  Thiam and Chairman  Harvey McGrath  survived calls from
shareholders including  Schroders Plc  to quit after the failed
bid for AIA. The firm has risen 21 percent since its IPO, in
which AIG sold two-thirds of its holding, giving the unit a
market value of about $36 billion. Prudential’s investors balked
at Thiam’s $35.5 billion offer for the whole company.  Talking to Shareholders  “We talk to our shareholders all the time,” Thiam said on
a conference call with reporters. “We believe that among the
body of shareholders there is a good relationship and a good
understanding.”  The stock  climbed  8 pence, or 1.3 percent, to 638.5 pence
at 8:17 a.m. in London trading, valuing the company at about
16.2 billion pounds.  Prudential’s share price should rise as investors realize
the business is undervalued compared with AIA, Flanagan said.
“AIA is a replica of what Pru Asia is.”  Sales in Asia increased 25 percent to 353 million pounds in
the third quarter and revenue from the U.S. climbed 16 percent
to 290 million pounds, the insurer said.  Profit from new business climbed 21 percent to 1.3 billion
pounds in the nine months to Sept. 30, helped by earnings in
Asia, which grew 34 percent to 621 million pounds. That matched
the analysts’ estimate of 1.3 billion pounds.  “Asia offers the highest growth and the highest return
opportunities in the insurance sector and will continue to do so
for a generation or more,” Thiam said.  Prudential Plc is a separate company from Newark, New
Jersey-based Prudential Financial Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kevin Crowley  in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 