-- RAB Capital Said to Shed Pi Investment Team, Close Asia Fund
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2010-11-10T01:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/rab-capital-said-to-shed-pi-investment-team-in-hong-kong-close-asia-fund.html
  RAB Capital Plc , the London-based
hedge-fund manager founded by Philip Richards and Michael Alen- Buckley, has shut its remaining Asia-focused fund, said five
people with knowledge of the matter.  Five members of the Hong Kong-based Pi investment team,
including its three founding partners Alain Barbezat, Caesar Luk
and Nissim Tse, left RAB about two weeks ago, said the people,
who declined to be identified as the information is private.  Hedge funds are struggling to raise capital or regain
assets lost during the financial crisis as fundraising from
institutions has become tougher. As much as 20 percent of hedge
funds may be liquidated by the first quarter of 2011 as they’re
starved of fee revenue and money, Justin Fredericks, head of U.S.
capital introductions on the prime brokerage team of Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch & Co. unit in  New York , said in
September.  “The environment remains challenging for new and smaller-
sized funds to raise assets,” said Alexander Kalis, a managing
partner of London-based Think Alternative Advisors LLP, which
provides research and consultancy services on Asian funds.
“Firms which are struggling may consider ridding themselves of
their peripheral businesses if they are unable to contribute to
the bottomline.”  RAB decided to pull the plug on the Pi fund because its
revenue could no longer offset costs after losing assets, two of
the people said. The Pi team oversaw less than $35 million in
the Asia fund when it closed, they added.  RAB warned its financial results this year could be
“significantly below current market expectations” in a Sept.
16 statement and said it started measures to cut costs to return
to profitability. RAB’s London-quoted shares lost 26 percent
this year.  Assets Under Management  The closure of RAB-Pi Asia Fund Ltd. leaves RAB, which
opened its first overseas office in Hong Kong in 2007, with no
Asia-focused fund at present, said the people. Charlotte Kirkham,
an external spokeswoman for RAB in  London , declined to comment.
Luk and Tse declined to comment. Barbezat couldn’t immediately
be reached.  RAB planned to double its Asian assets to $2 billion within
a year, Rod Barker, RAB’s director of business development and
distribution, said in an interview in October 2007, when RAB
opened its Hong Kong office.  RAB’s assets under management fell to $1.05 billion by Aug.
31 from the end of 2007 peak of $7.2 billion, according to
company statements. Richards’s RAB Special Situations Fund, the
firm’s largest, slumped 73 percent in 2008, hurt by a bet on
Northern Rock Plc, the first British bank nationalized during
the credit crisis.  Pi Investment  The Pi team was the second Asian business to depart from
RAB. George Philips and David Rogers, principals of Northwest
Investment Management Ltd. which was acquired by RAB in 2006,
bought back the now Hong Kong-based hedge-fund manager in April
last year, according to a RAB statement then.  Barbezat, Luk and Tse set up Pi Investment Management Ltd.
in 2002. Pi managed $209 million in September 2007 in two  hedge
funds  and managed accounts for clients when RAB bought it in
cash and shares then valued as much as 10.5 million pounds ($17
million), according to an October 2007 statement.  The Pi team’s departure came after the September expiry of
a three-year lockup period on their employment, a condition for
the shares issued as part of the acquisition, said two of the
people.  RAB still employs a team of ex-DB Zwirn & Co. employees who
are preparing the start of a special situations fund investing
in debt and equities of distressed companies in the region, the
two people said. The five-member team is already advising
clients on such deals, one said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  