-- Trade Deficit in U.S. Shrinks as Exports Climb to Two-Year High
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-11-10T21:51:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/trade-gap-in-u-s-shrinks-as-exports-climb-to-highest-level-in-two-years.html
The U.S. trade deficit shrank more
than forecast in September as  exports  climbed to the highest
level in two years, showing a weaker dollar is helping
strengthen the economic recovery.  The  gap  narrowed by 5.3 percent to $44 billion, smaller
than the $45 billion  median estimate  of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, according to Commerce Department figures today
in Washington. Another report showed the number of  claims  for
jobless benefits fell last week to a four-month low.  A 7.5 percent drop in the  dollar  over the past four months
is making American goods cheaper overseas as demand in emerging
economies propels  sales  for companies like  General Electric Co. 
The data come on the eve of a meeting of the Group of 20 nations
where the Obama administration, seeking a framework to address
global trade imbalances, and the Federal Reserve may come under
criticism for policies leading to dollar depreciation.  “The trend in exports is still pretty solid, so chances
are trade will add to growth in the fourth quarter,” said  Jim O’Sullivan , chief economist at MF Global Ltd. in New York.
“Ultimately, the rest of the world will be happy if the U.S.
recovery is solidly on track.”  The number of Americans filing applications for
unemployment benefits declined by 24,000 to 435,000 in the week
ended Nov. 6, lower than the median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey, figures from the Labor Department today also showed. The
four-week moving average, a less volatile measure than the
weekly data, dropped to 446,500 last week, the lowest since
September 2008, reinforcing evidence the labor market is
starting to improve.  Fewer Firings  Fewer firings are a first step to improvement in the labor
market, followed by faster job and income growth that will help
fuel gains in consumer spending. Bigger increases in payrolls
are also required to bring down an  unemployment  rate that’s
close to 10 percent.  “We expect modest growth going forward,” said  Andrew Gretzinger , a senior economist at MFC Global Investment
Management in Toronto. “A decline in the unemployment rate is
still the linchpin to keeping the consumer in the game.”  A second report from the Labor Department showed  prices  of
goods imported into the U.S. rose 0.9 percent in October, the
biggest gain in six months, reflecting higher costs for crude
oil, metals and automobiles.  Stocks rose, halting a two-day slide, paced by gains in
energy shares as oil prices climbed. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index advanced 0.4 percent to 1,218.71 at the 4 p.m. close in
New York.  Less Than Forecast  The  median estimate  for the trade gap reflected projections
of 75 economists surveyed. Forecasts ranged from $39.1 billion
to $49 billion.  U.S. exports increased 0.3 percent to $154.1 billion, the
most since August 2008. Sales of American-made civilian
aircraft, which are often volatile, climbed by $698 million.
 Boeing Co. , the largest U.S. civilian aircraft maker, shipped 25
planes overseas in September, up from 17 in August, according to
company data.  The outlook for U.S. exports is holding up as emerging
economies from China to India and Brazil modernize
infrastructure and more affluent households are able to afford
goods and services from abroad.  General Electric Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt 
this week appointed Vice Chairman John Rice to accelerate a push
to bolster exports and expand partnerships in countries such as
China and India upgrading transportation and utility grids to
support economic growth.  Emerging Markets  “The growth in the next decade or decades that’s going to
take place will be quite robust in places like China and
India,” Immelt said Nov. 9 in Beijing.  September’s gain in exports was paced by growing demand
from Hong Kong and countries in the European Union, including
the Netherlands, Italy and Ireland.  After reaching a one-year high on June 7, the dollar
weakened 7.5 percent through the end of October against a trade-
weighted basket of currencies.  President  Barack Obama , whose Democratic Party lost control
of the House of Representatives after last week’s elections, is
in Asia with the aim of promoting stronger trade ties with
countries such as India, Indonesia and South Korea. Obama will
be in Seoul tomorrow for the G-20 summit that will tackle
efforts to tighten bank oversight and avoid a currency war.  Fed Actions  The Fed’s decision to undertake an unprecedented second
round of asset purchases to keep interest rates low and spur
growth has been criticized by officials from Germany to Brazil
for contributing to the dollar’s drop.  The actions may prevent the U.S. from taking the offensive
in the meeting, according to  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at
Pierpont Securities LLC in Stamford, Connecticut.  “The U.S.’s agenda has been fully derailed here,” he said
in an interview.  Imports  dropped in September, reflecting less demand for
foreign-made autos and consumer goods like pharmaceuticals and
clothing. American demand for capital goods made overseas
climbed to a record, indicating business investment in computers
and software continues to improve.  The overall deficit with China decreased as U.S. imports of
goods dropped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  