-- U.S. Trade Gap Likely Shrank in September as Exports Grew
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-11-10T05:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/trade-gap-in-u-s-probably-shrank-in-september-as-exports-grew.html
The trade deficit probably narrowed
in September as a weaker dollar boosted U.S. exports and made
imported goods more expensive, economists said before a
government report today.  The  gap  shrank to $45 billion from $46.3 billion in August,
according to the  median estimate  of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Another report may show the cost of goods from
overseas rose last month by the most since January.  Growing demand in Asia and Latin America combined with a
 flagging dollar  will probably boost international  sales  for U.S.
manufacturers like  General Electric Co.  Rising costs of foreign
products signal the trade deficit will decrease in coming months
and contribute to the recovery for the first time in a year.  “Global growth is still gradually improving, and then
you’ve got the lower U.S. dollar, so that helps as well,” said
 Brian Bethune , chief U.S. financial economist at IHS Global
Insight in Lexington, Massachusetts.  The Commerce Department’s report is slated for 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 75 economists
ranged from $39.1 billion to $49 billion.  A report from the Labor Department at the same time may
show the import-price index rose 1.2 percent in October, the
most in nine months, after declining 0.3 percent the previous
month, according to the median of 54 estimates from analysts.  Fewer Claims  Also at 8:30 a.m., Labor Department data may show that
first-time  claims  for unemployment benefits decreased to 450,000
last week from 457,000, according to 46 estimates from analysts
surveyed.  Because the U.S. buys more goods from overseas than it
sells abroad,  exports  have to grow faster than imports just to
keep the trade deficit steady.  Today’s report will help set estimates for government
revisions to third quarter growth due later this month. The
Commerce Department estimated that a bigger trade gap subtracted
2 percentage points from growth in July through September,
compared with a 3.5 percentage-point drag the previous quarter,
the Commerce Department said last month.  Manufacturing unexpectedly expanded at a faster pace in
October as production accelerated and domestic and international
orders picked up, a report from the  Institute for Supply
Management  showed last week. At the same time, the group’s
services  index , which covers about 90 percent of the economy,
increased at the quickest pace in three months.  Export Focus  GE Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  this week
appointed Vice Chairman  John Rice  to accelerate a push to
bolster exports and expand partnerships in countries like China
and India that are modernizing infrastructure to foster faster
economic growth.  “The growth in the next decade or decades that’s going to
take place will be quite robust in places like China and
India,” Immelt said Nov. 9 in Beijing.  GE, based in Fairfield, Connecticut, got about $33 billion
of its $157 billion in revenue last year from emerging markets,
with about $6 billion from China. Sales in China should rise by
at least 10 percent this year, Immelt reiterated in July.  After reaching a one-year high on June 7, the dollar
weakened 7.5 percent through the end of October against a  trade-
weighted basket  of currencies.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has gained 15.6 percent
since Aug. 31 on signs the Federal Reserve was ready to take
additional measures to spur growth. Policy makers last week
announced plans to buy $600 billion in securities through June
in a bid to lower interest rates and boost borrowing.  President  Barack Obama , whose Democratic Party lost control
of the House of Representatives in last week’s elections, is on
a tour of Asia with the aim of promoting stronger trade ties
with countries like India, Indonesia and South Korea.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  