-- Range Resources, EQT May Be Targets After Chevron Deal
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 2010-11-10T15:33:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/range-resources-eqt-ultra-may-be-targets-after-chevron-deal.html
  Range Resources Corp .,  EQT Corp . and  Ultra Petroleum Corp . are among companies that may attract
takeover bids because of their holdings in the Marcellus Shale
formation, where natural gas output has exceeded forecasts,
analysts said.  Investors expect more deals to follow yesterday’s agreement
by  Chevron Corp . to buy  Atlas Energy Inc . for $3.2 billion in
cash to gain access to natural gas in the Marcellus. The deal is
worth $4.3 billion including assumed debt, which would make it
Chevron’s biggest since it bought Unocal Corp. in 2005.  Range, EQT, and Ultra, along with Atlas, all control
hundreds of thousands of acres in the Marcellus, a layer of gas-
rich shale rock under  Pennsylvania  and adjacent states. The
three have below-average enterprise values -- the value of stock
plus debt -- compared with reserves among the 65 largest U.S.
oil and gas producers, according to a Bloomberg data analysis.  “The Marcellus is the best gas shale play in the U.S.,”
Brian Lively, an analyst for Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co. in
Houston, said in an interview yesterday. “You’re also very
close to market, so you tend to get a premium for your gas.”  Range and EQT have been among the worst-performing
independent oil and gas producers this year in the  Standard &
Poor’s 500  as investors snapped up shares of companies like
Pioneer Natural Resources Inc. and  Denbury Resources Inc . that
pumped more oil, the more profitable product in the current
market.  Not Going ‘Quietly’  Chevron, based in  San Ramon , California, will join  Reliance
Industries Ltd ., India’s largest company by market value, in a
joint venture to extract gas from the Marcellus.  Exxon Mobil
Corp . and Royal Dutch Shell Plc have also bought companies with
Marcellus acreage.  “Majors just don’t do $4 billion deals and then go quietly
into the night,” according to a note issued today by Tudor,
Pickering analysts including Lively. “There will be more
acquisitions” and companies going private, the analysts wrote.  Chevron and other integrated oil companies are buying
shale-gas assets based on a 30-year outlook for energy prices,
confident that natural gas will sell for more than the current
price of about $4.24 per million British thermal units, said
Jonathan Dison, a managing director at Bender Consulting
Services Inc. in Houston, whose clients have included Chevron.
Exxon Mobil has said it expects use of natural gas will outpace
that of oil as global energy demand rises.  Three First Targets  “If I were acquiring a company and had all the money in
the world, the three I would target first would be Ultra, Range
and Petrohawk,” Michael Bodino, a Fort Worth, Texas-based
analyst for Global Hunter Securities, said in an interview
yesterday.  Ultra and Range hold acreage in the Marcellus Shale, while
Houston-based  Petrohawk Energy Corp . has holdings in the Texas
Eagle Ford shale that produces oil.  Kelly Whitley, Ultra Petroleum’s manager for  investor
relations , said the company doesn’t have any offers right now.
“There are not a lot of barriers if anyone was going to come
put an offer in,” she said.  Karen Giles, a spokeswoman for Range, said the company
doesn’t comment on speculation. Spokespeople for EQT and
Petrohawk didn’t return calls seeking comment yesterday on the
possibility of a takeover.  Going Private  Other companies with Marcellus assets are considering
private transactions.  Quicksilver Resources Inc . said last month
it’s weighing a potential offer to go private.  Exco Resources
Inc . said this month that its Chief Executive Officer Douglas H. Miller offered to buy all shares he doesn’t already own in a
purchase that values the company at about $4.36 billion.  EQT and Range are “top ideas” in the Marcellus, RBC
Capital Analyst Scott Hanold wrote in a note to clients
yesterday after Chevron announced its deal. Based on the Chevron
deal, Range is worth $45 a share.  Range fell 73 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $41.86 at 10:19 in
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange after rising
4.6 percent yesterday. EQT fell 8 cents to $40.43, after a 5.1
percent rise yesterday. Ultra fell 7.54 cents to $47, after
increasing 4.1 percent yesterday.  Range held gas leases on 1.3 million acres in the Marcellus
region as of June 30, second to  Chesapeake Energy Corp . the
second-largest U.S. gas producer behind Exxon Mobil, Hanold
wrote in an Aug. 26 note. Relative to its market value, Range
had the most Marcellus acres, with Atlas second. EQT holds
500,000 acres in the Marcellus.  Range, EQT and Ultra also have some of the lowest lifting
costs, a measure of the expense to produce the equivalent of a
barrel of oil, in the U.S., according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Companies like Range that have kept their per-unit
production costs under control can be outsized winners,” Curtis Trimble, a managing director at MKM Holdings LLC in Houston,
said in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 