-- Recovery to Speed Up as Fed Moves Build Confidence
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2010-11-10T14:07:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/recovery-to-speed-up-as-fed-moves-build-confidence-survey-says.html
The world’s largest economy will
strengthen through next year as the Federal Reserve’s
unprecedented actions help underpin consumer and business
confidence, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  After growing at a 2.2 percent annual rate this quarter and
next, gross domestic product will accelerate each successive
period, reaching a 3.2 percent pace by the last three months of
2011, according to the median forecast of economists polled from
Nov. 3 to Nov. 9.  The $2.3 trillion that the central bank said it will have
pumped into financial markets by June will probably keep
interest rates low and sustain the rebound in stocks, shoring up
corporate and household finances. An improving job market and
election results that raised the odds Bush-era tax cuts will be
extended may help the economy gain speed.  “There will be a very slowly evolving acceleration of
economic activity,”  David Resler , chief U.S. economist at
Nomura International Securities Inc. in New York. “The benefits
of QE2 have already been felt and reflected in the financial
markets,” he said, referring to the second round of the Fed’s
program of asset purchases, or quantitative easing.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has climbed 14 percent
since Aug. 27, when Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the
central bank was prepared to take additional action to spur
growth. The yield on the 10-year note rose to 2.66 percent at 5
p.m. New York time yesterday, the highest level in eight days.
The yield reached a 2010 low of 2.39 percent on Oct. 7.  Raising Forecasts  Economists raised their GDP forecasts from the October
survey, starting with the second quarter of 2011, according to
this month’s median estimate. They cut the projection for the
first three months of next year.  “We are losing two drivers of growth” in coming months,
said  Diane Swonk , chief economist at Mesirow Financial Inc., in
Chicago. Inventory restocking, which propelled the economy since
the recovery began in June 2009, is likely to cool, and
government stimulus will diminish, she said.  Consumer spending will grow at a 2.4 percent pace in the
fourth quarter, and average 2.3 percent for 2011, up from 1.7
percent this year, the economists estimated.  Employers added 151,000 workers to payrolls in October, the
first gain in five months, according to a report last week from
the Labor Department. The increase exceeded even the most
optimistic forecast of economists surveyed. A Labor Department
report today showed that the number of initial claims for
unemployment benefits fell last week to the lowest level in
fourth months.  ‘Steady Improvement’  “The labor market is what really turns it,” said  Joel Naroff , president of Naroff Economic Advisors in Holland,
Pennsylvania. “We will see a slow and steady improvement in job
growth. In the next six to nine months, we won’t be talking
about a jobless recovery anymore.”  The economists surveyed this month forecast the average
jobless rate will fall to 9.3 percent in 2011 from 9.6 percent
this year.  Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  on Nov. 8
said the impact from the central bank’s second round of asset
purchases, worth up to $600 billion, will have the biggest
effect on the economy starting in six months.  “Easing of monetary policy produces its maximum impact on
real variables in the economy, including output, consumption,
and investment, with a lag of six to 12 months and can be
difficult to disentangle,” Bullard said in a speech in New
York.  Weakening Dollar  Fed policy has also contributed to weakening the dollar,
helping make U.S. exports more competitive. The  Dollar Index ,
which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses to track the dollar
against the currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, fell
14 percent from its year-high on June 7 through Nov. 4. It has
since risen about 2 percent.  The dollar’s decline helped narrow the trade deficit more
than forecast in September as exports climbed to the highest
level in two years, Commerce Department figures showed today.
The gap shrank 5.3 percent to $44 billion.  Rising exports  will continue to boost profits of U.S.
manufacturers such as  Caterpillar Inc. , the world’s largest
maker of construction and mining equipment. The Peoria,
Illinois-based company is benefitting from growth in China,
Brazil and other emerging economies. On Oct. 21 it raised its
full-year earnings forecast and posted third-quarter profit that
topped analysts’ estimates.  Developing World  “Good economic growth in the developing world has been
positive for sales,” said  Mike DeWalt , director of investor
relations during a teleconference.  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New York, is among those seeing a more
immediate turnaround in U.S. growth following the Nov. 2
elections that gave the Republicans a majority in the House of
Representatives, the pickup in hiring and Fed actions.  “The air has been cleared,” said Rupkey. “The
impediments to growth, uncertainty about change in Washington
and will the Fed go or not, those have gone to the wayside and
people’s animal spirits can start to revive.” He projected
growth will exceed 3 percent this quarter and in three of the
next four.  Economists still forecast the Fed won’t begin raising its
benchmark fed funds rate until the first quarter of 2012. The
rate, which has been in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since
December 2008, will increase by a quarter point, less than the
prior survey’s forecast of a half point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 Bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Tanzi  in Washington at 
 atanzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  