-- Reducing Chronic Disease May Harm Meat Producers, Study Finds
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2010-11-10T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/reducing-chronic-disease-may-harm-meat-producers-study-finds.html
Following a low-fat diet to reduce
rates of chronic disease may harm developing countries that rely
on meat production, such as Brazil, the biggest exporter of
chicken and beef, researchers found.  Consuming less meat and dairy products would cut premature
deaths from ischemic heart disease by 3 percent a year in the
U.K., compared with 2 percent in Brazil, according to the  study 
published in  The Lancet  medical journal today. The  World Health
Organization  recommends eating less than 10 percent of dietary
energy as saturated fat.  Brazil’s gross domestic product would be damaged more than
the U.K. economy if both countries followed WHO guidelines,
wrote the researchers, led by Karen Lock and Richard Smith of
the  London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine . That’s
because changes would be needed in agriculture production and
global trade, the researchers found after analyzing 2004 trade
data.  “The U.K. would accrue substantial health benefits and
associated low costs from adoption of a diet low in saturated
fat from animal sources,” the researchers wrote. “Brazil would
experience little health benefit but far more striking economic
costs from such a policy.”  As many as seven in 10 deaths globally in 2030 will result
from non-communicable illnesses such as heart disease and
diabetes, most of which are chronic,  Badara Samb , a senior
adviser to the WHO, told reporters yesterday at a briefing in
London. About 80 percent of those deaths will be in middle- and
low-income countries, Samb said.  Changes to the global food and agriculture industry to
prevent a rise in chronic diseases would have to be gradual,
 Robert Beaglehole  of the  University of Auckland  in New Zealand
told reporters in London.  “We are not going to turn that industry around in the
short term,” he said. “It will take decades.”  Brazil exported 1.6 million metric tons of beef and veal in
2009, according the United States Department of Agriculture.  To contact the reporter on this Story:
 Chris Kay  in London at   ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  