-- RIM Says PlayBook ‘Three Times’ Faster Than IPad
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2010-11-16T21:14:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/rim-to-sell-tablet-computer-in-north-america-in-first-quarter.html
Jim Balsillie , co-chief executive
officer of  Research In Motion Ltd. , opened a new round of verbal
sparring with  Apple Inc. , saying his company’s tablet computer
is “three to four times faster” than the iPad.  RIM compared its BlackBerry PlayBook against Apple’s tablet
in performing several tasks, including surfing the Web and
playing video, and then posted a clip of the side-by-side
performance  on the Web .  “Go to YouTube and see it, it’s fast,” Balsillie said
today at the Web 2.0 conference today in San Francisco. “It’s
self-evident when shown.”  The RIM chief’s remarks are the latest salvo in a war of
words between RIM and Apple CEO  Steve Jobs . Jobs said last month
that devices like the PlayBook are “dead on arrival” because
they are too small to compete with the iPad and that RIM would
struggle to attract application developers to support its
BlackBerry devices.  Balsillie fired back the next day, saying in an e-mail
statement that people “are getting tired of being told what to
think by Apple.”  Today, Balsillie acknowledged the importance of apps in his
remarks, though he said in too many cases apps are a substitute
for a poor Web browsing experience.  “The Web shouldn’t be an app,” Balsillie said. “I don’t
need a YouTube app to go to YouTube.”  Tablet Competition  Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM is trying to differentiate
itself from Apple and other tablet makers by stressing the
ability of its PlayBook tablet to handle  Adobe Systems Inc. ’s
Flash technology that underpins much of the video content on the
Internet. The iPad doesn’t run Flash video or animation. The
PlayBook will go on sale in North America in the first quarter
and expand into global markets in the second quarter, Balsillie
said in an interview earlier this month.  The device has a 7-inch (18-centimeter) screen, smaller
than the iPad’s 9.7-inch display, and will sell for “under”
$500, he said.  The iPad starts at $499 for a model with 16
gigabytes of storage and Wi-Fi wireless technology. The price
rises to $829 for a version with more storage that can connect
directly to cellular-phone networks.  RIM,  Hewlett-Packard Co. ,  Motorola Inc.  and Samsung
Electronics Co. are all moving into the tablet-computer market
after the iPad triggered demand for devices that can fill the
gap between smartphones and laptops. Apple, based in Cupertino,
California, sold 3 million iPads in the first 80 days after they
went on sale in April, and had a 95 percent share of the tablet
market in the third quarter, according to Strategy Analytics.  RIM fell $1.49, or 2.6 percent, to $56.29 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  The stock has dropped
17 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  