-- Roche's Rejects May Again Rejuvenate Swiss Biotechnology Scene
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2010-11-10T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/roche-s-rejects-may-again-rejuvenate-swiss-biotechnology-startup-companies.html
Roche Holding AG ’s plan to reduce
costs may cast off drug discovery projects, providing a boost to
Switzerland’s ailing biotechnology industry and venture
capitalists seeking to create health-care companies.  Roche has already seeded a number of Swiss biotech start-
ups, including the spinoff of  Basilea Pharmaceutica Ltd.  in 2000
to pursue antibiotic research. Actelion Ltd., Switzerland’s
largest biotech company, was started in 1997 by Roche scientists
to develop medicines the drugmaker had axed, including a
treatment for a lung condition that now has annual sales of more
than $1 billion.  Roche, the largest maker of cancer medicines, has said it
plans to outline cost reductions by the end of the year to
counter setbacks in research and pressure on drug prices from
insurers. The prospect of researchers trying to emulate the
success of previous Roche biotech start-ups is poised to
generate interest among investors and venture capitalists.  “Pharma’s loss might be biotech’s gain,” said  Brad Bolzon , head of Menlo Park, California-based venture capital
firm  Versant Ventures  and a former head of business development
at Roche. “Challenging periods in the pharma industry can
create opportunity for more entrepreneurial managers and
scientists to take risks. We’ve seen some success with
collaborative spin-outs.”  ‘Very Smart’  Basilea was formed by about 50 Roche scientists and
executives, five experimental compounds and 206 million Swiss
francs ($214 million) in funding from the drugmaker. While
Basel-based Roche sold a 51 percent stake to private and
institutional investors, it kept options on some of the
experimental drugs. Basilea has since brought to market the
first treatment for chronic hand eczema not helped by standard
therapies.  “Roche was very smart in the way it established Basilea,”
said  Ron Scott , Basilea’s chief financial officer and one of its
first employees. “Roche was able to recoup its significant
investment in therapeutic areas, which were no longer its
primary focus.”  According to  Venture Valuation  in Zurich, there are about
73 biotech companies focusing on drug development in
Switzerland, compared with 77 in France, home to almost nine
times as many people as the Alpine country.  Accelerating Pace  About half of the biotech companies listed on the Swiss
Performance Index had links to either Roche or Novartis AG
before Arpida Ltd. and Bioxell SpA were acquired last year.
 Investment  in the industry fell to 370 million francs last year
from a peak of 885 million francs in 2007. Though financing for
this year started slowly, the pace has picked up, said Juerg
Zuercher, head of Ernst & Young AG’s biotech unit for Europe,
the Middle East, India and Africa.  The increase may be a boon for Roche. The company is
sounding out venture capitalists to gauge interest in funding
startups, according to  Jean-Philippe Tripet , managing partner at
Aravis Venture, a Zurich-based venture capital company.  Roche may fund the assets being spun out themselves or seek
financing from venture capitalists to “keep a foot in the
door,” Tripet said in an interview. Retaining options or equity
in the new companies may be a way of doing this, he said.  While Roche hasn’t given any details on the cost-cutting
program, dubbed Operational Excellence, Chief Executive Officer
 Severin Schwan  said on a conference call Oct. 14 that it is
“looking at a prioritization of our portfolio as we go
forward.”  Alexander Klauser , a Roche spokesman, declined to
comment on whether companies would be spun off as a result.  Preclinical Experiments  Roche is more likely to drop experimental medicines that
are in preclinical development or in the first of three phases
of human testing needed for approval, Tripet said. Investors may
be most interested in experimental cancer treatments, he said.  “ Roche  is the Ferrari of oncology, so if they were to spin
out something in that area, VCs would look at it very closely,”
he said. Roche also may opt to cut drugs in other areas such as
neurological or metabolic disease, Tripet said.  Roche has about 70 compounds in clinical development,
spread over seven disease areas, according to the company’s
website. Half are in the earliest stage of human testing.  Carri Duncan , an analyst at Macquarie Group in Zurich, also
pointed to metabolism -- an area of research that develops
treatment for conditions ranging from diabetes to high
cholesterol -- as a field the company may trim.  “However it’s done, it makes sense to do it thematically
because they could help set up a new company with those
products, as they did with Basilea,” said Duncan, who rates the
shares “outperform,” in an interview.  Trial Setback  Clinical trials of taspoglutide, an experimental diabetes
medicine that would have been the first product introduced in
the metabolism field, were halted this year after many patients
dropped out because of side effects. The company plans to make a
decision on the future of the drug, which it licensed from Ipsen
SA, by the end of the year. Roche had expected to ask regulators
to grant marketing permission for the medicine in 2011.  The Swiss biotech industry needs products after suffering a
slew of drug development setbacks over the past two years. Two
late-stage clinical trials being run by Actelion failed, while
Basilea said in September that former partner Johnson & Johnson
was looking to withdraw the ceftobiprole antibiotic from some
markets after it was rejected by U.S. and European regulators.  Speedel Holding AG, set up by Novartis scientist  Alice Huxley , was one of the few successes in recent years, helping
develop a shelved product that in 2007 became the first new
treatment for high blood pressure in more than a decade.  Not all out-licensed compounds need to generate new
companies, said  Chandra P. Leo , an adviser at investment company
HBM Partners in Zug, Switzerland. They may just help existing
companies rejuvenate their pipelines, he said. For every 10
compounds spun out of pharmaceutical companies, at least five
will likely fail because they’re subject to the same attrition
rates as anywhere else in the industry, Leo said.  “Some really interesting projects end up in biotech,” he
said. “Provided you find the right setup, such spinouts will
inject some new life into the industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dermot Doherty  in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  