-- Royal Bafokeng May Spend $1.45 Billion on Non-Mining Assets, CEO Says
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2010-11-10T16:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/royal-bafokeng-may-spend-1-45-billion-on-non-mining-assets-ceo-says.html
Royal Bafokeng Holdings Ltd., which
represents the business interests of the 300,000-strong Bafokeng
community in northern South Africa, said it wants to invest as
much as 10 billion rand ($1.45 billion) in non-mining assets
over the next two to three years.  Industrial companies, property and financial services are
some of the industries the group may be interested in,  Niall Carroll , the chief executive officer of the group, said in an
interview today. “We need to create a yield to spend on social
development. Our ultimate objective is to protect and grow the
wealth of the community.”  Royal Bafokeng Holdings has 30 billion rand of capital in a
country where black South Africans own less than a fifth of the
top 100 stocks listed on Johannesburg’s  stock exchange ,
according to the bourse, more than 16 years since the end of
apartheid. The 800-year-old community also owns stakes in Zurich
Financial Services AG’s South African insurance unit and Vodacom
Group Ltd.  Royal Bafokeng Platinum Ltd. , a unit of the holding
company, started trading on the Johannesburg bourse on Nov. 8
and is not scheduled to pay a dividend until 2017. It raised 3
billion rand on its listing, increasing the parent company’s
reliance on mining, which also includes stakes in Impala
Platinum Holdings Ltd. and Merafe Resources Ltd.  “I don’t believe we’ll reach a sustainable state of
equilibrium in our economy until we have at least one national
champion with significant black ownership in each sector,”
Carroll said. “Until we do that the nationalization debate will
continue.”  South Africa’s ruling African National Congress agreed in
September to officially debate a possible nationalization of
mines following a call by its youth wing, which has said it
wants poor communities to benefit more the country’s mineral
resources.  Royal Bafokeng may buy a stake in one of South Africa’s top
five financial services companies, Reuters cited Carroll as
saying today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  