-- Ruble at Two-Week High Versus Euro-Dollar Basket as Easing Boosts Crude
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-11-10T09:28:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/ruble-at-two-week-high-versus-euro-dollar-basket-as-easing-boosts-crude.html
The  ruble  rose to its strongest
level in two weeks against the central bank’s dollar-euro basket
as oil prices nearing $90 a barrel and easing U.S. monetary
policy buoys demand for Russian assets.  The currency gained as much as 1 percent to 42.15 per euro
today, the strongest since Oct. 27, and was little changed
30.6625 per dollar by 11:59 a.m. in Moscow. Those movements left
it stronger for the fourth straight trading day versus the
basket, adding 0.4 percent to 35.9087 against the mechanism used
by the central bank to temper swings in the currency that erode
exporter competitiveness.  Crude hit a more than two-year high of $87.63 a barrel
yesterday as the Federal Reserve’s plan to buy an additional
$600 billion of Treasuries, a tactic known as quantitative
easing, boosted expectations of a weaker dollar and increased
demand for commodities. With the Fed’s benchmark interest rate
near zero and the bond purchases aimed at reducing market rates,
investors are seeking out emerging markets like Russia, whose
official interest rate on one-day repurchase loans is 5 percent.  “The fundamentals suggest that the ruble should be
stronger,”  Yaroslav Lissovolik , Moscow-based chief economist
for Deutsche Bank AG, the world’s largest currency trader, said
by phone today. “With the oil price approaching $90 and a
better global outlook more people are starting to rethink their
views on the ruble.”  Russia’s currency slumped 1 percent against the dollar and
2.7 percent versus the euro last month, the worst emerging
market performer against both the greenback and the euro after
Chile and Colombia’s pesos, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A narrowing of Russia’s trade surplus in August and
changes to  Bank Rossii ’s management of the ruble deterred
investors in the currency, according to Lissovolik.  Reversal  “What we’re seeing now is some reversal of the anomalies
the ruble has been experiencing,” said Lissovolik, who predicts
the ruble will end the year at 29.7 per dollar and strengthen to
28.4 versus the U.S. currency by the end of 2011.  Since the Fed’s Nov. 3 announcement, the ruble has jumped
2.1 percent against the euro and just 0.2 percent versus the
dollar. The currency’s movements are more pronounced against the
euro because the central bank is confining the ruble to a 30 to
31 per dollar range in a bid to limit appreciation on the back
of quantitative easing, said  Vladimir Tikhomirov , chief
economist at Moscow-based Otkritie Financial Corp.  Bank Rossii is “afraid the new stage of quantitative
easing will lead to a weaker dollar and a weaker dollar hurts
Russian competitiveness,” Tikhomirov said by phone. “They’re
preempting that strength by keeping the ruble steady versus the
dollar.”  ‘Gradual Devaluation’  The central bank manages the ruble by buying and selling
dollars and euros on the market. Policy makers sold $3.8 billion
of  foreign currency  in October, the most since January 2009 when
Bank Rossii engineered what it called a “gradual devaluation”
of the ruble amid the global credit crisis, central bank data
shows. The ruble hasn’t traded beyond 30 to 31 against the
dollar since Oct. 11, when it strengthened to 29.76.  Options traders are bullish on the ruble, with the
currency’s one-week risk reversal rate -- the premium of put
options over calls -- at 0.5 percent since Oct. 22, from as high
as 1.5 percent on Oct. 19, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Non-deliverable forwards, known as NDFs, which
provide a guide to expectations of currency movements and
interest-rate differentials, show the ruble at 30.8930 in three
months, from 31.0466 yesterday.  Russia’s dollar bonds due 2020 fell, pushing the yield up 7
basis points to 4.26 percent, the highest since Nov. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma O’Brien  in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  