-- Russia Growth May Quicken to 5.3% on Consumer Demand, Lending, RenCap Says
-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y
-- 2010-11-10T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/russia-growth-may-quicken-to-5-3-on-consumer-demand-lending-rencap-says.html
Russia’s economy may grow next
quarter at the fastest pace since 2008 as government spending,
rebounding consumer demand and bank lending spur recovery,
Renaissance Capital said.  Gross domestic product may grow an annual 5.3 percent in
the first three months of 2011, RenCap said in a report today.
That would be the biggest quarterly increase since the third
quarter of 2008. GDP this quarter may increase 3.6 percent,
putting growth for the year at a “disappointing” 3.7 percent,
the Moscow-based investment bank said.  “Barring another external shock, we think increasing
consumption, loan growth and loose fiscal policy will likely
drive faster growth than the market currently expects in 2011,”
 Roland Nash , RenCap’s Moscow-based chief strategist, wrote in
the report.  Russia, the world’s biggest energy exporter, and other
emerging markets face a better outlook and less uncertainty than
developed economies, Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  said last
month. Russia’s economy expanded an annual 5.2 percent in the
second quarter and 2.9 percent in the previous three months.  Russia’s economy grows by about half a percentage point for
every $10 increase in the price of oil, according to Deputy
Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach . Crude in New York has gained 9
percent so far this year and hit a two-year high of $87.63 a
barrel yesterday.  RenCap’s forecast for next year suggest that the “the
worrying slowdown in growth in the second half of 2010 is a
result of temporary factors, rather than a sign of a deeper
malaise,” Nash said.  GDP  slid a seasonally adjusted 0.7 percent in the third
quarter from the previous period after posting gains for four
quarters in a row, according to the Economy Ministry.  The Economy Ministry forecasts growth of 3.9 percent to 4.5
percent in the next three years. The government estimates GDP
will increase 4 percent in 2010 after last year’s 7.9 percent
contraction, the biggest since the Soviet Union’s collapse in
1991.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 