-- Safaricom of Kenya Says First-Half Profit Rises 15% as Data Revenue Climbs
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-11-10T15:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/safaricom-of-kenya-says-first-half-profit-rises-15-as-data-revenue-climbs.html
Safaricom Ltd. , Kenya’s largest
mobile-phone operator, said first-half profit climbed 15 percent
as sales increased amid higher revenue from data services.  Net income rose to 7.63 billion shillings ($94.8 million)
in the six months through September, from 6.63 billion shillings
a year earlier, Chief Executive Officer  Bob Collymore  told
reporters today in Nairobi, the capital. Revenue advanced 16
percent to 47.1 billion shillings, he said.  “They outperformed market expectations,”  Aly-Khan Satchu ,
an independent financial analyst, said in an interview in
Nairobi. “We are going to find this year that data is going to
reach a tipping point and they are showing they can lead.”  Mobile operators in  Kenya  are promoting data offerings,
including money-transfer services and broadband Internet, after
the telecommunications regulator in August halved the rates that
operators charge each other to connect calls across networks.
That triggered a round of cuts in call costs by companies to
less than 1 cent per minute and in some cases free calls during
off-peak hours.  Revenue from data now accounts for 24 percent of total
sales, up 56 percent from a year earlier, Chief Financial
Officer  Chris Tiffin  said at the presentation. Average revenue
per user in the voice business declined to 321.7 shillings, from
370.8 shillings, he said.  ‘Significant Benefits’  “As we had anticipated data is proving to be the next
frontier, delivering very significant benefits,” Collymore said.
The number of data subscribers grew 92 percent to 3.6 million in
the past 12 months, he said.  MPESA, Safaricom’s mobile money-transfer service, has shown
“phenomenal growth,” with 13.5 million users at the end of
September, Collymore said. Mkesho, a service that enables
clients to open bank accounts through MPESA, registered 613,000
users in the first five months of operations, he said.  Safaricom operates Mkesho with  Equity Bank Ltd. , Kenya’s
biggest provider of small loans.  Personal-computer and Internet penetration rates remain
“very low” in Kenya and Safaricom sees these areas as a “major
opportunity,” Collymore said. Safaricom’s data users account for
9.3 percent of the East African nation’s population.  Shares in Safaricom fell 5 cents, or 1.1 percent, to 4.7
shillings ahead of the results announcement. The stock has risen
3.3 percent so far this year, underperforming a 42 percent
increase in the benchmark  NSE 20 index  over the same period.  Capital Expenditure  The company, Kenya’s largest by market value, has invested
in upgrading its network and building infrastructure to support
its data business. Capital expenditure increased by 52 percent
to 10 billion shillings in the first half, Tiffin said.  Last week,  Business Daily , a Nairobi-based newspaper, said
Safaricom plans to sell 4.5 billion shillings worth of bonds
this month to fund its spending on telecommunications
infrastructure. Last year, the company sold 7.5 billion
shillings worth of securities, the first portion of a 12
billion-shilling program.  Safaricom, Kenya’s largest company by market value, is 40
percent-owned by  Vodafone Plc , the world’s biggest mobile-phone
operator. It competes with  Bharti Airtel Ltd. ’s Kenyan unit,
 Zain , Telkom Kenya Ltd., a joint venture between the government
and  France Telecom SA , and Essar Telecom Kenya Ltd., a unit of
Essar Group of India.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 