-- Sainsbury, Wal-Mart's Asda Bet on Last Luxury Christmas in U.K.
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2010-11-10T11:01:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/sainsbury-wal-mart-s-asda-bet-on-luxury-u-k-christmas-before-austerity.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ’s Asda chain
and  J Sainsbury Plc  are betting that British consumers will
feast this Christmas in preparation for belt-tightening to come.  Verdict Research  forecasts the festive season will be the
best for U.K. retailers since 2007, with food and grocery
spending climbing 3.5 percent to 33.1 billion pounds ($53
billion) -- a figure equal to 39 percent of all holiday outlay,
Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Nov. 15 issue.  “Christmas is a time where people trade up on food,”
Sainsbury Chief Executive Officer  Justin King  said. “We’ve seen
people quite clearly manage their weekly spend so they can
preserve things that are important to them.”  On Dec. 25, that means turkey, flaming Christmas pudding
with brandy butter, mince pies and foil-wrapped crackers that
open with a pop to reveal a paper crown, corny joke and gift.  Sainsbury , the U.K.’s third-largest supermarket chain, and
Asda, the No. 2 after Tesco Plc, wager that consumers will defy
the downturn and add more expensive treats to their shopping
baskets before the reality of public-sector job cuts and rising
taxes begins to set in.  One way British Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s formula for
wiping out a record budget deficit by 2015 will hit pocketbooks:
effective Jan. 4, the value-added tax, which is levied on all
prepared foods, including holiday goodies such as ice cream,
salted nuts and gingerbread men decorated with chocolate, will
rise to 20 percent from 17.5 percent.  Private Labels  In anticipation of a holiday shopping spree, both Asda and
Sainsbury have bulked up their premium private label offerings.
“The U.K. consumer is always prepared to splash out at
Christmas and the own-brands are typically higher gross margin
so it’s a clever strategy,” said  Sam Hart , a retail analyst at
brokerage Charles Stanley.  Sainsbury is doubling its highest-priced “Taste the
Difference” line, which typically accounts for about 5 percent
of its products, by adding 300 items including a tub of mince-
pie ice cream for 3 pounds, 40 grams of Jamon Iberico Bellota
for 4.75 pounds and a roast pork belly dinner meal for 9 pounds.  To accompany Christmas pudding or canapés, Sainsbury is
also selling Taste the Difference Prosecco Conegliano for 9.99
pounds. “Prosecco is the new cava,” Sainsbury Trading Director
 Mike Coupe  said, referring to the popular Spanish stand-in for
Champagne.  Sainsbury Shares  Shares of Sainsbury fell 1.1 percent to close at 373.2 
pence in London after the company reported first-half earnings
that missed analyst estimates and said it expects “challenging”
conditions during the Christmas period. The stock has risen 15
percent this year, compared to a 3.5 percent decline at Tesco.  Asda is adding 140 products to its “Extra Special”
premium range in the next eight weeks. Almost three-quarters of
the purple and cream branded range has been updated or changed
to attract holiday shoppers such as sherry trifle gateaux, trout
and horseradish terrine starters and mini steak-and-ale pies.
The retailer is also offering Christmas puddings aged for six
months for 10.98 pounds.  To induce shoppers to stock up early, the chain offered up
to 25 percent off its new premium range in October.  “Sales do tend to grow threefold at Christmas,” Jo
Johnson, brand manager for the “Extra Special” product, said
in an interview. “Generally we try and keep customers with us
when they trade up at Christmas so it’s getting them to trust us
to be a credible retailer on premium food as well as price.”  ‘Tough’ Season  Some retailers are warning the predictions may be too
optimistic.  William Morrison Supermarkets Plc  Chief Executive
Officer  Dalton Philips  is flagging a “tough” festive season.
“People say the British are going go to have a great Christmas
irrespective” of the economic backdrop, Philips said. “I’m not
so sure.”  Marks & Spencer Group Plc  Chief Executive Officer  Marc Bolland  said yesterday he’s “cautious, but optimistic” about
the holiday season, with 12,000 orders for Christmas dinners
already placed and 1,000 new food products in store.  “We expect the trading conditions ahead to become more
challenging as consumers’ disposable incomes come under pressure
from increased VAT rates and the impact of public spending
cuts,” the company said.  Verdict consulting director Neil Saunders agreed. “We may
see people trading down once again, saving on essential items,”
he said. “What’s more worrying is the whole sector is much more
competitive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net . 