-- Sainsbury, Wal-Mart's Asda Bet on Last Luxury Christmas in U.K.
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2010-11-10T10:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/sainsbury-first-half-profit-advances-8-1-on-premium-foods-clothing-sales.html
J Sainsbury Plc,  the U.K.’s third-
largest supermarket company, reported first-half earnings that
missed analysts’ estimates and said it expects “challenging”
conditions during the peak Christmas period.  Pretax profit before one-time items climbed to 332 million
pounds ($531 million) in the 28 weeks ended Oct. 2, the London-
based retailer said today. That was less than the 335 million-
pound median estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
News. Net income rose 38 percent to 347 million pounds.  Chief Executive Officer  Justin King  predicted a “steady”
market in the run-up to the festive season and said he doesn’t
expect January’s increase in value-added tax to have much impact
on sales before its implementation. Sainsbury has expanded its
Taste the Difference range of premium foods, added convenience
outlets and broadened its offering of non-food items such as
clothing to sustain sales growth as consumers curb spending.  “The environment will remain tough and we are heading
towards what looks like it will be the toughest Christmas in
many years,”  Dave McCarthy , an analyst at Evolution Securities,
said in a research report. He rates Sainsbury “reduce.”  Sainsbury fell as much as 2.4 percent in London trading and
was down 5.4 pence, or 1.4 percent, to 371.8 pence as of 10 a.m.
in London trading. The stock has jumped 14 percent this year,
compared with market leader Tesco Plc’s 3.6 percent decline.  Fastest Growing  “Although we continue to see a very tough and challenging
environment for consumers with some elements getting tougher
still, we feel we’re in a good position to perform well,” King
told reporters. “The market has remained pretty steady and
we’ve been outperforming the market for a few years.”  Sainsbury was the fastest-growing of the U.K.’s four
largest supermarkets in the three months though October,
according to Kantar Worldpanel data.  The retailer said it plans to add 1.5 million square feet
(139,355 square meters) of selling space this year, an increase
of 250,000 square feet.  Non-food products grew at three times the rate of food,
according to Sainsbury, which has 20 million customers a week.
Sales of the Taste the Difference, which was reintroduced two
months ago, increased in the “mid-teens”, King said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 