-- SAS Posts Loss on EU Cargo-Cartel Fine; Shares Slump
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2010-11-10T17:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/sas-posts-third-quarter-net-loss-of-155-million-on-eu-cargo-cartel-fine.html
SAS Group , the largest Nordic
airline, unexpectedly reported a loss because of a penalty by
European regulators for participating in a global price-fixing
cartel. The stock  fell  the most in six months.  The third-quarter net loss was 1.05 billion kronor ($156
million), compared with a  profit  of 152 million kronor a year
earlier, Stockholm-based SAS said today in a statement. Revenue
fell 3.5 percent to 10.7 billion kronor. Analysts had expected a
profit of 283 million kronor, according to the average estimate
of  analysts  compiled by Bloomberg.  SAS, half-owned by the governments of Sweden, Norway and
Denmark, was fined 660 million kronor yesterday by the European
Commission for fixing prices on cargo services with other
airlines. The carrier has been  unprofitable  in all but one of
the past 12 quarters as it struggled with declining traffic,
strikes and a volcanic eruption this year in Iceland.  “Even adjusted for restructuring costs they still
disappointed,” said  Johannes Moller , an analyst with Danske
Markets in Copenhagen who advises selling SAS shares. “There
will be further overcapacity in the Nordic market next year, so
the operators will have to lower ticket prices. That will offset
all the cost cuts that SAS is doing.”  Norwegian Air  SAS fell 2 kronor, or 7.5 percent, to 24.60 kronor in
Stockholm, the steepest decline since May 19, bringing its loss
this year to 52 percent.  The carrier’s profitability will continue to suffer as long
as low-cost airline  Norwegian Air Shuttle AS  keeps adding
flights in the region, Moller said. SAS may just break even in
2011, he said.  SAS began a 7.8 billion-krona cost-reduction program last
year that includes eliminating 4,600 jobs. SAS said today it’s
on course to complete the plan by the end of next year, after
generating 4.9 billion kronor in savings so far.  “We must continue to reduce the cost level to improve
earnings and to grow profitably in pace with the market,”
Acting Chief Executive Officer  John Dueholm  said in the
statement.  European airlines may see a next phase of consolidation
talks in two to three years, after getting their finances in
order, Dueholm said on a conference call today. SAS is not
holding any merger talks, he said.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG Supervisory Board Chairman Juergen
Weber said last week that Europe’s second-largest airline was
taking a “wait-and-see” approach to the possible purchase of a
stake in SAS. Buying a holding in SAS “hasn’t worked out so
far, unfortunately, but we’ll wait and see,” he said.  Dueholm is heading SAS until  Rickard Gustafson , CEO of
insurers Codan and Trygg-Hansa, takes over early next year.
SAS’s former CEO,  Mats Jansson , retired last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ola Kinnander  in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible on this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 