-- Saudi Aramco to Supply Full Contractual Oil Volumes to Asia for December
-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 2010-11-10T08:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/saudi-aramco-to-supply-full-contractual-oil-volumes-to-asia-for-december.html
Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s
largest state-owned oil company, will supply full contractual
volumes of crude to Asia for loading in December, according to
refinery officials in the region.  Saudi Aramco, as the company is known, will provide 100
percent of cargoes sold under long-term contracts for a 13th
month, according to the officials from Taiwan, China, South
Korea and Japan, who requested anonymity, citing confidentiality
agreements with the Middle East producer.  The decision to provide full exports comes after the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries agreed on Oct. 14
to leave output quotas unchanged for the sixth time since 2008.  OPEC exceeded its targets by 1.82 million barrels a day in
October, according to a Bloomberg survey of producers, analysts
and oil companies who follow the group’s output.  Saudi Arabia  lowered its production last month by 20,000
barrels a day to 8.23 million, the survey showed. That was about
179,000 barrels more than its target of 8.051 million.  Abu Dhabi National Oil Co., the state-run producer in the
United Arab Emirates capital, said on Oct. 27 it would maintain
cuts in December shipments of its biggest export grade, Murban,
to buyers with long-term contracts.  Supplies will remain reduced by 15 percent for a third
month from contractual volumes, the company said. Lower Zakum
was also left unchanged at a cut of 15 percent.  December Umm Shaif and Upper Zakum exports will be cut by
17 percent compared with 20 percent reductions in November,
Adnoc said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jane, Ching Shen Lee at 
 jalee@bloomberg.net  