-- Scottish Lawmakers Reject Minimum Booze Price Pushed by Doctors
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2010-11-11T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/scottish-lawmakers-reject-minimum-booze-price-pushed-by-doctors.html
Scottish lawmakers rejected a plan
to impose a minimum price on alcoholic drinks in a vote that the
 British Medical Association in Scotland  called a “lost
opportunity” to improve the nation’s health.  The proposal by the minority  Scottish National Party 
government banned the sale of booze under 45 pence (73 cents) a
unit. Forty-nine lawmakers voted yesterday for the amendment to
a broader bill on alcohol, while 76 were opposed and four didn’t
cast a ballot.  Scots  drink  about 24 percent more alcohol a year than
people elsewhere in Britain, with death rates for alcohol-
related liver diseases twice as high in Scotland as in England
and Wales, according to a Scottish government health survey.  “We had a chance to address something which has always
been culturally a bit of an Achilles heel to Scotland,” said
Brian Keighley, chairman of the medical group, which represents
doctors, in a phone interview before the vote. “The eyes of the
Western world are looking at what’s going to happen in Scotland.
This was to some extent to be a test-bed.”  Scotland would have been the first part of the U.K. to
introduce minimum pricing for alcohol. The country was the first
in the U.K. to ban smoking in all indoor public spaces in March
2006, including bars and restaurants.  “Minimum unit pricing was rightly rejected by MSPs because
it is effectively a tax on the poor,” the opposition Scottish
Labour Party Health spokeswoman  Jackie Baillie  said in an e-
mailed statement.  Minimum Price  The proposal would have resulted in a minimum price of
12.60 pounds ($20.26) for a 70-centiliter (24-ounce) bottle of
Scotch whisky, up from an average price of 10.85 pounds in
Scotland, according to the  Scotch Whisky Association .  “The Scottish Parliament is to be congratulated,” SWA
Chief Executive Officer Gavin Hewitt said in a  statement  on the
group’s website. “We call on all parties to come together to
build consensus around alternative, more effective, legal tax-
based measures to address alcohol misuse.”  Previous efforts to stem alcohol-related diseases by
raising duty prices on alcohol and health education haven’t
worked, said Keighley.  “Goodness knows we’ve been doing that for years. It’s much
worse than it used to be,” he said. “The traditional working
man used to drink his wages on the way home, but we now have a
whole cohort of teenagers and young people who think nothing of
drinking enormous quantities of alcohol.”  Alcohol Deaths  The proposal would have reduced alcohol-linked deaths by
225 a year after 10 years, save 83 million pounds in health-care
costs over the period, and cut hospital admissions by 4,200 a
year, Scottish Health Secretary  Nicola Sturgeon  said Sept 2. She
declined an interview request yesterday from Bloomberg News.  A  letter  signed by 160 supporters of minimum pricing,
including Mike Lees, managing director of Tennents Caledonian
Breweries, owned by  C&C Group Plc , and former Scottish Labour
Party leader  Henry McLeish , was issued by the BMA and published
Nov. 7 in the Sunday Herald newspaper.  The pro-independence SNP minority administration, first
elected in 2007, introduced its Alcohol Bill in November 2009.
Scotland will vote in parliamentary elections in May 2011.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said in August he
supports local areas introducing minimum pricing.  Tesco Plc ,
Britain’s largest supermarket chain, has said it would back the
introduction of minimum pricing.  To contact the reporter on this Story:
 Chris Kay  in London at   ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  