-- Second-Tier Nigerian Banks to Gain on Amcon Plan, Renaissance Capital Says
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2010-11-10T16:49:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/second-tier-nigerian-banks-to-gain-on-amcon-plan-renaissance-capital-says.html
Shares in Nigerian banks such as
 Skye Bank Plc ,  Access Bank Plc , Diamond Bank Plc and First City
Monument Trust Bank Plc are poised to gain after the state-owned
company that will buy bad debts from lenders provided more
detail on how it will operate, Renaissance Capital said.  Asset Management Corp. of Nigeria, known as Amcon, will buy
back 2.2 trillion naira ($14.6 billion) of bad debts from
lenders, more than a previous forecast of $10 billion by Central
Bank of Nigeria Governor Lamido Sanusi. Amcon will value loans
backed by shares in listed companies at about 60 percent of the
60-day average price to Nov. 15, the Abuja-based regulator said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The central bank took stakes in some of the nation’s
lenders that failed an audit, spending 620 billion naira to
recapitalize the industry following a debt crisis last year
caused by loans to stock speculators that weren’t repaid. It
also fired the chief executive officers of eight of the
country’s 24 lenders.  “We would look at the second-tier banks who passed the
audit, but screen for still-high non-performing loans coupled
with low valuations -- on that front Skye, Access, Diamond and
FCMB come through,”  David Nangle , head of equity research at
Moscow-based Renaissance, wrote in an e-mailed note to clients
dated today.  Picks  Lenders that failed the central bank’s audit are
Afribank Nigeria Plc, Finbank Plc, Union Bank of Nigeria Plc,
Bank PHB Plc,  Oceanic Bank International Plc , whose shares have
surged 84 percent this year, Unity Bank Plc, Spring Bank Plc,
 Intercontinental Bank Plc , which is up 67 percent in 2010,
Equitorial Trust Bank Plc, and Wema Bank Plc.  “The most obvious benefactors from the Amcon announcement
are the failed banks as their problems will finally be
underwritten and they are cleans by for mergers and
acquisitions,” Nangle wrote. “However, the trade here is
always going to be speculative.”  While  Zenith Bank Plc , First Bank of Nigeria Plc, Guaranty
Trust Bank Plc and  United Bank for Africa Plc , the country’s
four biggest lenders, have been best positioned through the
crisis with the fewest non-performing loans and strong balance
sheets, “the are not the primary benefactors of this,” Nangle
said.  Nigerian lenders trade at “deep discount” to emerging-
market and African peers, Nangle said. Skye shares trade at book
value, while Access, Diamond and FCMB are all below this,
according to data compiled by Renaissance. This compares with an
average price of 2.2 times book value for global emerging-market
lenders, according to Nangle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vincent Nwanma  in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 