-- Sell Barclays Put Options on ‘Strong’ Capital Level, RBS Says
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-11-10T07:59:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/sell-barclays-put-options-on-strong-capital-level-rbs-says.html
Investors should sell bearish
 Barclays Plc  options because Britain’s third-largest bank is
poised to rally after saying yesterday that its capital ratio
remained “strong,” Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said.  Equity derivatives strategists  Stephen Einchcomb  and  Bhavin Patel  recommended selling January 260 pence puts on the London-
based company, which rose 4 percent to 297 pence yesterday for
the biggest gain in the five-member FTSE 350 Index of U.K.
banks. Barclays said in its third-quarter  earnings  report that
its Core Tier 1 ratio, a measure of financial strength, was
unchanged from the first half at 10 percent.  The bank is down 11 percent in the past three months, the
worst performance in the index, because “the market has been
cautious on Q3 trading and Barclays’ capital base,” the London-
based strategists wrote in a report yesterday. The financial
results “should ease these concerns and may signal a turning
point for the company,” they wrote.  Selling a put is a bet that the stock will remain above the
strike price, allowing the seller to keep the premium paid. The
strategy is favorable because bearish Barclays options are
expensive relative to bullish ones, the strategists wrote.  The historic volatility, a gauge of past price swings, has
fallen by more than half since August, while implied volatility,
the key gauge of options prices, is now “significantly” higher
than historic volatility, the report said.  “This makes Barclays options appear more expensive at
present, thus selling options seems an attractive strategy in
this environment,” the strategists said. Selling the January
260 pence put returns the most if the stock remains above that
level at expiration, and it breaks even if the stock is above
252.5 pence, they said.  Puts give the right to sell a security for a certain
amount, the strike price, by a set date. Calls convey the right
to buy. Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in
the price of securities they own, speculate on share-price moves
or bet that  volatility , or stock swings, will rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 