-- Serbian Central Bank to Aid Currency Market With Incentives, Jelic Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2010-11-10T08:08:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/serbian-central-bank-to-aid-currency-market-with-incentives-jelic-says.html
Serbia’s central bank will introduce
incentives including new hedging and repo operations to
stabilize the dinar and boost currency trading, said the head of
the Financial Markets Association, or ACI Serbia.  Trading volume in Serbia’s currency market slumped 70
percent last year from more than 23 billion euros ($31.3
billion) in 2008, when the global crisis sapped demand for
Serbian investment and goods. Trade has gained 10 percent since
January. Monthly volume topped half a billion euros, the amount
the “market occasionally traded in a day,” Filip Jelic said in a
Belgrade interview yesterday.  New products “are expected to freshen up the market” and
are being prepared jointly by ACI Serbia and the National Bank
of Serbia, said Jelic, who is also the head of Treasury at Erste
Bank in Belgrade.  Authorities in the Balkan country are working to spark
interest in the economy to pull it out of its slump and reassure
investors following an exodus from riskier emerging markets. The
economy is expected to grow 3 percent in 2011 and the outlook
bodes well for business, Jelic said.  In one change involving direct repo operations, the central
bank would provide needed dinar liquidity to banks to create a
longer yield curve, “because we are under pressure to hedge and
we can’t do that without stable and long-term dinar sources,” he
said.  Hedging operations have gained importance, with the  Narodna
Banka Srbije  launching a drive for a greater dinar share in
banking transactions, cutting down the economy’s reliance on the
euro.  ‘Dinarization Process’  “We will simply be forced to offer our clients ways of
hedging their foreign-exchange holdings or contracts index-
linked to hard currencies,” he said. “The dinarization is a
process agreed under the Vienna Initiative” in 2009 under the
auspices of the International Monetary Fund with foreign banks’
commitment to keep credit exposure to Serbia.  He said the process will take four to five years.  The central bank has spent more than 2.3 billion euros
since January to curb the dinar’s losses and policy makers are
looking for new instruments to strengthen it.  The dinar which has lost 12 percent against the euro in the
past 12 months, was trading at 107.16 to the common currency at
9 a.m. today in Belgrade, compared with 107.27 yesterday.  The central bank is also expected to resume three-month
euro-dinar swaps and “we are in the process of testing real
euro-dinar forward contracts,” Jelic said.  Banks in Serbia have had almost no liquidity problems due
to restrictive risk policies, high capital adequacy ratio
requirements and high mandatory reserves, he said.  Corporate clients are taking advantage of bank liquidity to
repay their external borrowing, which has partly created
pressure on the dinar exchange rate, said Jelic.  The dinar’s decline will probably reflect on companies’
balance sheets and “debt refinancing and restructuring” will be
a key issue for banks and their clients in 2011, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gordana Filipovic  in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  