-- Shinsei to Buy Back Securities Abroad to Spur Capital Ratio Ahead of Basel
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2010-11-10T11:02:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/shinsei-to-buy-back-securities-abroad-to-spur-capital-ratio-ahead-of-basel.html
Shinsei Bank Ltd. , the Japanese
lender partly owned by J.  Christopher Flowers , unveiled plans to
buy back $1.1 billion of preferred securities to boost its
capital ratio ahead of tighter Basel regulations.  The Tokyo-based lender today started cash tender offers
outside Japan to buy the dollar-denominated securities, which
were issued by two Cayman Islands subsidiaries, and cancel them
after the purchase, the bank said in a statement filed to the
stock exchange.  Shinsei didn’t say how it would fund the purchases, and
Chief Executive Officer  Shigeki Toma  said at a news conference
that the bank is scrapping a plan “for now” to sell 100
billion yen ($1.2 billion) of new shares.  The moves come after Japan’s three biggest banks led by
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. raised a combined 4.5
trillion yen in stock sales in the past two years in a bid to
bolster their capital to achieve stricter rules proposed in
September by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.  “We had to call it off for now, and we may resume
consideration of a capital increase when the environment
surrounding us gets better,” Toma said of the stock-sale plan,
without elaborating.  Shinsei’s shares have slid 40 percent in the past six
months, the second-worst performer on the  Topix Banks Index 
behind  Resona Holdings Inc. , which last week unveiled plans to
sell shares over the next year to repay government bailout funds.
Shinsei gained 2.9 percent to 70 yen at the close in Tokyo today.  Credit Rating Cut  Moody’s Investors Service today cut Shinsei’s long-term
senior unsecured and deposit rating to Baa3, the lowest
investment grade, citing the bank’s “considerable challenges”
to stabilize earnings and execute its management plan. Shinsei’s
ability to raise capital over the short term is limited, the
rating company said in a statement.  “Through the offers, Shinsei aims to enhance its common
equity Tier 1 capital while maintaining an adequate level of
regulatory capital with a view to future implementation of Basel
III,” Shinsei said in the statement.  The Basel committee agreed to boost the minimum common
equity requirement to 7 percent of risk-weighted assets from 2
percent, giving banks almost a decade to fully comply.  Shinsei today reported first-half net income climbed 52
percent to 16.9 billion yen ($207 million) in the six months
ended Sept. 30 from a year earlier. It left its full-year profit
forecast unchanged at 12.5 billion yen.  Toma is accelerating efforts to rebuild Shinsei’s business
after two straight years of losses and a failed merger with
local rival Aozora Bank Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
 Takako Taniguchi  in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 