-- Siemens May Seek to End Seesaw Returns With Dividend Pledge
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2010-11-10T11:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/siemens-ceo-loescher-may-seek-to-end-seesaw-returns-with-dividend-pledge.html
Siemens AG  Chief Executive Officer
 Peter Loescher  may strive to hand investors the same reliability
as its power-plant turbines and trains.  The German company will disclose a  dividend  policy for the
first time tomorrow that pledges a payout based on  annual
earnings , according to an analyst survey by Bloomberg. Loescher
is also set to introduce more ambitious  return on capital 
targets, as he seeks to sustain growth rates that helped him
boost profitability and cash since taking the helm in mid-2007.  “Now is a good point in time for changes in steering
Siemens,” said  Theo Kitz , an analyst at Merck Finck in Munich
with a “buy” on Siemens shares. “Loescher first had to
complete programs and issues begun by his predecessors. Now he
can act as opposed to just react, he can be more proactive.”  Under Loescher’s two predecessors,  Heinrich von Pierer  and
 Klaus Kleinfeld , Siemens was notorious for  missing profitability 
goals and piling up charges tied to overhauls and job cuts.
Loescher’s has expanded bulk-buying of components and shed staff
to boost margins to 12.67 percent, while steering clear of large
acquisitions as he sharpens the focus around energy-saving
products for wind turbines and smart grids.  The Munich-based company, whose trains were voted the most
reliable in the U.K. in the National Rail Awards of 2009, will
tomorrow report fiscal fourth-quarter results that the company
already said in September would be “very satisfactory.”  Eyes on Targets  Fourth-quarter profit from healthcare, industry and energy
divisions, referred to as sector profit,  rose  to 2.24 billion
euros ($3.1 billion) from 1.92 billion euros a year earlier,
according to a survey of 11  analysts . A 1.4 billion-euro
writedown at a diagnostics unit pushed the company into a net
loss of 324 million euros. Sales through Sept. 30 added 3
percent to 20.3 billion euros.  Investors will hone in on Loescher’s mid-term targets,
which may include lifting the range for return on capital
employed to a maximum 18 percent from as much as 16 percent,
according to  Gael de-Bray , an analyst at Societe Generale.  Siemens’ annual share price  gain  in the past 10 years was
1.44 percent per year, according to Bloomberg data, trailing a 7
percent annual return for competitor Schneider Electric SA.
Meanwhile, its current dividend  yield  at 1.87 percent is the
lowest among 12 competitors, the data shows. Siemens may pay a
dividend of 2 euros per share, according to a  Bloomberg
forecast . Workers have already benefited. Siemens today said it
would spend about 310 million euros on a special bonus.  Return Needed  “Management has done a great job turning Siemens around.
Still, the total return for investors in the past 10 years was
close to zero,” said  James Stettler , an analyst at UniCredit in
London. “Siemens needs to now focus on improving returns to
shareholders. A dividend payout below 2 euros per share would be
a disappointment.”  Siemens may cease setting margin targets for divisions and
concentrate on profitability goals for just its main sectors, a
move that some analysts say may reduce visibility.  “Siemens has an extremely wide range of  opportunities  for
growth, and the company needs to clearly communicate to the
market in which ones it plans to participate,” said Commerzbank
AG analyst Ingo-Martin Schachel, who rates it “buy.”  The program, dubbed “One Siemens” aims to build on
previous initiatives that narrowed the company’s focus and
raised its competitiveness. Loescher sold  stakes  in an
enterprise communications unit as well as in a cordless phone
operation, and he exited a computer venture with Fujitsu Ltd.  The 53-year-old’s initial period in charge was dogged by
strengthening compliance rules following a bribery scandal that
cost the company about $3.2 billion. As part of a drive to
change the face of Siemens, he added two women to the management
board and vowed to sell 40 billion euros worth of equipment like
wind turbines and solar plants to expand in green technology.  Textbook Recovery  The turnaround in fortunes has been “almost textbook.”
said  Nicholas Heymann , an analyst at Sterne Agee in Birmingham,
Alabama. The shares have responded accordingly. Siemens has
returned 37 percent in the 12 months, beating the 30 percent
gain for  Koninklijke Philips Electronics NV , a 7.4 percent
advance for  General Electric Co. , and a 6 percent rise for  ABB
Ltd.  Train and turbine maker  Alstom SA  has lost 29 percent.  Siemens’s fiscal fourth-quarter orders included a gas-
turbine power plant in Nigeria, connecting Georgia and Turkey’s
electricity grids through a high-voltage power line, and
turbines for wind-energy projects in Oklahoma and Canada.  With the restructuring done, Loescher’s next priorities
will be cash management and generating value for  shareholders ,
said Ingo-Martin Schachel, an analyst at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt, who rates Siemens “buy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 