-- Singapore Air to Carry Out Precautionary Engine Changes on A380
-- B y   C h a n   S u e   L i n g   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-11-10T12:39:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/singapore-air-to-carry-out-precautionary-engine-changes-on-a380.html
Singapore Airlines Ltd.  will take
three Airbus SAS A380s out of service for as long as 48 hours to
change Rolls-Royce Group Plc engines following a turbine blowout
on a Qantas Airways Ltd. flight last week.  One engine will be changed on each of the planes, which
will arrive in Singapore today, Chief Executive Officer  Chew Choon Seng  told reporters in the city-state. The move is a
precautionary measure after “slight” oil staining was found in
areas of the Trent 900 engines, he said.  The carrier, which operates 11  471-seat A380s , has no plans
to cancel flights because of the engine swaps, Chew said. Qantas
extended a grounding of its superjumbos to at least a week after
finding evidence of potential oil leaks in three Rolls-Royce
units during checks prompted by the Nov. 4 mid-flight explosion.
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG , the only other operator of Trent 900-
powered A380s, said it replaced an engine on one jet.  Singapore Air’s A380s will only return to service “when we
are thoroughly happy,” Chew said. “They will be out of action
for a day or a maximum of two days.”  The aircraft are flying back from London, Melbourne and
Sydney, said spokesman  Nicholas Ionides . Singapore Air, the
largest user of Trent 900s, grounded its A380s on the day of the
Qantas incident to undertake checks recommended by Airbus and
London-based Rolls-Royce. The aircraft returned to service less
than 24 hours later.  4 Million Passengers  Airbus has a team in Singapore to assist the carrier,  Sean Lee , a spokesman, said by phone. Rolls-Royce advised the airline
to make the changes, he said. Roger Hunt, a Sydney-based
spokesman for the engine-maker, declined to comment.  Chew said he had been “assured at the highest levels”
that Rolls-Royce is doing everything necessary to investigate
the issue.  Singapore Air, which began flying the A380 in October,
2007, has operated more than 10,000 flights using superjumbos,
carrying at least 4 million passengers, Chew said. The planes
account for about 12 percent of the carrier’s passenger
capacity, according to K. Ajith, an analyst at UOB-Kay Hian
Research Pte in Singapore.  The airline has an engine maintenance contract with Rolls-
Royce that includes spare parts for the Trent 900, Chew said.
Warranties for new engines run as long as two years, he said.  ‘Precautionary’  Cologne, Germany-based Lufthansa, Europe’s second-largest
airline, replaced an engine on one of its three A380s as a
“precautionary measure,” spokesman Andreas Bartels said by
phone. The replacement “had nothing to with what happened at
Qantas,” he said, declining to be specific.  Singapore Air  fell 1.2 percent to S$16.12 at the close of
trading in Singapore today.  Rolls-Royce  dropped 0.7 percent to
602 pence at 12:29 p.m. in London. Lufthansa added half a cent
to 16.05 euros on the Frankfurt exchange.  Qantas’s six A380s, representing about 17 percent of its
international capacity, may return to service as soon as
tomorrow, spokesman  Simon Rushton  reiterated by phone today. The
carrier grounded its superjumbos after the engine explosion,
which forced an emergency landing in Singapore.  The  airline  rose 1.8 percent to A$2.80 in Sydney trading,
the first gain in four days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chan Sue Ling  in Singapore 
 slchan@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  