-- Singapore Seen Overtaking Malaysia 45 Years After Lee's Tears
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2010-11-11T08:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/singapore-seen-overtaking-malaysia-45-years-after-split-left-lee-in-tears.html
Forty-five years after Singapore’s
expulsion from a union with Malaysia left  Lee Kuan Yew  in tears
on national television, the economy of the city-state he led to
independence is poised to overtake its neighbor.  Singapore’s gross domestic product will cap its fastest
annual growth this year since independence, rising as much as 15
percent to about $210 billion, while the economy of Malaysia, a
country 478 times its size, will expand 7 percent to $205
billion, government forecasts show. The nations are scheduled to
release their 2010 data by February.  The island that former economic adviser Albert Winsemius
once said was considered a “poor little market in a dark corner
of Asia” is now ranked by the World Bank as the easiest place
to do business, has the world’s second-busiest container port,
and boasts the highest proportion of millionaire households,
according to the Boston Consulting Group.  “Singapore kept on moving to the next level as the world
economy evolved and adjusted to market demands and investors’
interests,” said  Lee Hock Guan , senior fellow at the Singapore-
based Institute of Southeast Asian Studies. “Malaysia was
struck by the curse of resource-rich countries: It didn’t
optimize its human capital.”  From a low-cost manufacturing center for companies such as
 Texas Instruments Inc.  in the 1960s, Singapore has become the
world’s fourth-largest foreign-exchange center with a S$1.2
trillion ($932 billion) asset-management industry.  Rising Wealth  Smaller than New York City and the only Southeast Asian
nation without natural resources, Singapore has grown 189-fold
since independence in 1965, helping boost GDP per capita to
$36,537 last year from $512. Malaysia’s economy expanded at one-
third the pace during the same period and had a GDP per capita
of $6,975 in 2009, up from $335 in 1965.  Malaysia’s growth fell to an average 4.7 percent a year in
the past decade, from 7.2 percent in the 1990s, when former
prime minister  Mahathir Mohamad  wooed overseas manufacturers,
built highways and erected the world’s tallest twin towers.  “Development is like a marathon and all policies geared
toward it must be sustainable and continuous,” said  Thomas Lam ,
chief economist at OSK-DMG, a venture between Malaysian
securities firm OSK Holdings Bhd. and  Deutsche Bank AG .
“Malaysia runs the marathon like a 100 meter event, so you see
the initial spurt but not continuous progress in the race.”  Lam, 35, is one of 386,000 Malaysians who have become
permanent residents or citizens of Singapore, a list that
includes Health Minister  Khaw Boon Wan  and Oversea-Chinese
Banking Corp. Chairman  Cheong Choong Kong .  ‘Greater’ Opportunity  “Singapore seems to offer greater career opportunity and
mobility in my field,” said Lam, the second-most-accurate U.S.
economic forecaster for 2008 to 2009 in Bloomberg surveys.  After more than 140 years under British rule, Singapore
joined the Federation of Malaysia in September 1963 as Lee and
his colleagues sought a bigger common market to cut unemployment
and curb communism. The merger survived less than two years amid
ideological differences and worsening relations between the
 United Malays National Organisation , which dominated the ruling
Barisan Nasional coalition, and Lee’s  People’s Action Party .  “For me, it is a moment of anguish,” Lee said on Aug. 9,
1965, the day Singapore became a sovereign state. “My whole
adult life, I believed in Malaysian merger and unity of the two
territories.” Lee, 87, was Singapore’s prime minister from 1959
to 1990.  ‘Loss of Time’  Winsemius, the country’s economic adviser from 1961 to 1984,
said he thought the merger was a “loss of time.” Credited with
helping formulate Singapore’s industrial strategy, Winsemius,
who died in 1996, said the general opinion of Singapore in the
early 1960s was a country “going down the drain.”  The government acted by investing in export-based
industries. It built new container terminals for Singapore’s
port, the genesis of the country’s development; reclaimed land
offshore to attract companies such as  Exxon Mobil Corp.  and
 Royal Dutch/Shell Group  for a S$30 billion oil refining complex;
and moved into high-tech industries like electronics and drugs.  “Economic development does not occur naturally,” said
 Ravi Menon , a senior official at Singapore’s Ministry of Trade
and Industry. “This is where free marketers are disenchanted
with Singapore. The government has never hesitated from guiding
the development process or intervening in markets where it
believes such intervention will lead to superior outcomes.”  Biomedical Research  The government invested about S$500 million in its Biopolis
biomedical research hub after attracting drugmakers including
 Pfizer Inc.  and  Novartis AG . It cut corporate tax rates by nine
percentage points since 2000 to 17 percent, compared with 25
percent in Malaysia.  BNP Paribas has a “buy” recommendation on Keppel Corp.
and SembCorp Marine Ltd., the world’s biggest builders of oil
rigs and two of the companies the government backed to propagate
its industrial policy. Singapore Technologies Engineering Ltd.,
Asia’s biggest aircraft-maintenance company, was rated a “buy”
by Deutsche Bank AG.  Singapore was kicked out of the union partly because Lee
opposed Malaysia’s affirmative-action policy, which provides
special rights to the ethnic Malay majority. While Malaysian
Prime Minister  Najib Razak  has pledged to roll back key  policies 
of ethnic favoritism, he told UMNO’s 61st General Assembly last
month that the “social contract” that gives benefits to the
Malays cannot be repealed.  Najib’s Plan  “Singapore will overtake Malaysia because its focus is
just on economic growth,” Mahathir, Malaysia’s prime minister
from 1981 to 2003, said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“There is no social restructuring goal such as fair
distribution of wealth between races as we have in Malaysia.”  Najib is trying to return the Malaysian economy to the
levels of growth that boosted stock prices almost fivefold in
the decade through 1996. He set a goal of tripling gross
national income to 1.7 trillion ringgit ($550 billion) in 2020,
from 600 billion ringgit in 2009 and creating 3.3 million jobs.  His government unveiled an economic transformation program
in September aimed at attracting investment, including $444
billion of programs this decade ranging from mass rail to
nuclear power, led by private and government-linked companies.  “Malaysia has to ask itself why its investment rates are
so low,” said  Vikram Nehru , World Bank regional chief economist
for East Asia and the Pacific. “There are questions about
availability of labor, entry and exit barriers, and underlying
concerns about policy executions.”  Luring Expats  Najib is also taking steps to bolster the talent base,
including plans for a teaching hospital with courses by
Baltimore-based Johns Hopkins University and a new corporation
tasked with luring back skilled Malaysians from overseas.  About 350,000 to 400,000 Malaysian citizens work in
Singapore, including 150,000 who commute daily via buses and
motorcycles to jobs in the city-state’s factories, kitchens and
offices.  “Singapore followed the export-led industrialization model
to become a base for foreign manufacturers,” said Lee of the
 Institute of Southeast Asian Studies . “The main model for
Malaysia for a number of years was import-substitution where it
protected certain industries. That created inertia.”  Lee, a 52-year-old Malaysian who studied and lived overseas
for more than 30 years, said he plans to return to live in
Malaysia only when he retires.  Singapore beat 182 economies to take first place in the
World Bank’s annual ranking of business conditions, which looks
at property rights, taxes, access to credit, labor laws and
regulations on customs and licenses. Malaysia climbed two steps
to 21st, according to the Nov. 4 report.  Media Censorship  Mercer Consulting ranked Singapore as Asia’s most livable
city in May, even as it lags behind Hong Kong on measurements of
personal freedom and media censorship. The government says
 restrictions on public assembly and speeches  are necessary to
maintain social and religious harmony among its 5 million people.
The city was wracked by violence between ethnic Malays and
Chinese in the 1960s.  The country must keep innovating to stay ahead, said  Tomo Kinoshita , deputy head of Asia economics research at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong.  “Singapore must keep searching for new markets,”
Kinoshita said. “Less developed Asian countries are all growing
quickly and trying to catch up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at   lklemming@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  