-- SingTel Second-Quarter Profit Unexpectedly Falls on Units
-- B y   C h a n   S u e   L i n g
-- 2010-11-11T09:29:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/singapore-telecom-profit-falls-as-regional-units-offset-gains-in-australia.html
Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. ,
Southeast Asia’s biggest phone company, reported an unexpected
drop in profit after competition reduced earnings at partners in
India and Indonesia.  Net income  fell 6.7 percent from a year earlier to S$892
million ($692 million) in the quarter ended in September,
SingTel, as the company is known, said in a statement today.
That missed the S$969 million average of four analyst  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Bharti Airtel Ltd . in India and PT Telekomunikasi Selular
in Indonesia led a drop in earnings from regional affiliates,
overshadowing gains from Australian unit Optus. SingTel Chief
Executive Officer  Chua Sock Koong  is counting on the popularity
of smartphones such as  Apple Inc .’s iPhone to revive profit
growth by boosting demand for wireless data and applications as
markets saturate worldwide.  “Contributions from the regional associates reflect the
competition in the markets that they operate in such as India
and Indonesia,” said  Carey Wong , an analyst at OCBC Investment
Research Pte in Singapore. “Singapore and Australia are matured
markets but you can still expect single-digit growth.”  Higher Dividend  SingTel  rose 1.9 percent to S$3.31 at the close of trading
in Singapore today. Of the 23  analysts  tracked by Bloomberg in
the past 12 months, nine had buy ratings, one recommended that
investors sell the stock, and the remainder rated “hold.”  SingTel, whose largest shareholder is Singapore state
investment company  Temasek Holdings Pte , boosted its dividend
payout ratio to 55 percent to 70 percent of underlying profit
from the previous 45 percent to 60 percent.  The company defines underlying profit as net income before
exceptional items and exchange differences on capital reduction
of certain overseas subsidiaries. SingTel will pay an interim
dividend of 6.8 Singapore cents a share, 10 percent more than
last year, the statement said.  Pretax profit contributions from regional associates fell
6.2 percent to S$536 million,  the company  said. Regional mobile
companies accounted for 43 percent of earnings before interest,
tax depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA.  Optus contributed to 31 percent of EBITDA while the
Singapore business provided 24 percent, the  statement  said.  Bharti Earnings  SingTel owns 32 percent of  Bharti , India’s biggest wireless
provider, and 35 percent of Telkomsel, as the Indonesian company
is known. New Delhi-based Bharti reported a worse-than-expected
27 percent drop in earnings yesterday.  SingTel is boosting investments to access new technologies
as surging smartphone sales drives up demand for wireless data
services. The company in September started a S$200 million fund
to invest in startups.  “It’s important to make these investments and we have made
inroad,” Chua said in a statement. “The strategic initiatives
are however expected to incur costs before delivering longer
term scale benefits.”  The group’s mobile customer base grew 35 percent from a
year ago to 368 million as of the end of September.  At Optus, Australia’s largest phone operator after  Telstra
Corp. , net income increased 15 percent to A$175 million ($176
million) in the quarter. Operating revenue rose 4.7 percent to
A$2.3 billion. Net income at the Singapore business declined 12
percent to S$295 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Sue Ling  in Singapore 
 slchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  