-- Smurfit Kappa Says Venezuela Nationalization Risk Rising; Shares Drop 3.6%
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2010-11-10T17:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/smurfit-kappa-says-venezuela-nationalization-risk-rising-shares-drop-3-6-.html
Smurfit Kappa Group Plc , the Irish
cardboard manufacturer, said the risk of having its assets in
Venezuela nationalized has increased since President  Hugo Chavez 
lost his two-thirds majority in parliamentary elections. The
company’s shares fell the most in eight weeks.  “The nationalization of foreign-owned companies by the
Venezuelan government has intensified lately and would suggest
that the risk of similar such action against SKG’s business in
Venezuela has heightened,” Chief Executive Officer  Gary McGann 
said, according to the transcript of an earnings teleconference
by the Dublin-based company. “We’ve seen activity in terms of
expropriation on a wider type of targets than we previously
experienced.”  Chavez has brought more of Venezuela’s economy under state
control since suffering his biggest electoral setback in
legislative elections in September. Last month he expropriated
foreign-owned businesses including the local unit of Perrysburg,
Ohio-based glassmaker  Owens-Illinois Inc . and Fertinitro, a
fertilizer venture partly-owned by Wichita, Kansas-based Koch
Industries Inc.  Chavez said Oct. 25 he had a list of companies he has
earmarked for expropriation.  “Arguably everybody is on the list,” said McGann.  The Venezuelan government in March 2009 seized 1,500
hectares (3,705 acres) owned by Smurfit Kappa for planting
eucalyptus trees, saying the trees were draining local rivers of
water and that the land should be used to grow vegetables.  Venezuela represented about 4 percent of Smurfit Kappa’s
revenue in the first three quarters of 2010 and 4 percent of
total assets, the company said.  Shares  of Smurfit Kappa fell 3.6 percent today to 7.78
euros at 5:09 p.m. in Dublin trading. It was the biggest decline
since a 5.3 percent drop on Sept. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charlie Devereux  in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  