-- Softbank Climbed to Three-Year High, Trading Surged Before Buyback Release
-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v ,   Y o s h i n o r i   E k i   a n d   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d
-- 2010-11-10T10:44:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/softbank-rose-trading-volume-surged-before-buyback-release.html
Softbank Corp.  climbed to a three-
year high and trading volume jumped yesterday in Tokyo before
the carrier announced a 412.5 billion yen ($5 billion)
repurchase of securities from  Vodafone Group Plc .  The number of Softbank  shares  changing hands rose to 23
million, the highest since Jan. 14 and triple the three-month
average daily trading volume for the stock. As of yesterday, the
shares had risen 11 percent over four days, almost double the
gain by the benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average . Softbank said
today it doesn’t suspect “inappropriate” activity.  The surge fueled speculation that information was leaked
before Softbank announced it agreed to buy back preferred
shares, options and debt owned by Vodafone. Japanese companies
including  Nomura Holdings Inc. ,  Mizuho Securities Co. ,  Aozora
Bank Ltd .,  Chugai Pharmaceutical Co.  and  Itochu Corp.  have come
under investigation for insider trading in the past year.  “Considering the large trading volume Softbank had, it’s
possible information was leaked,” said Mitsushige Akino, who
oversees about $450 million in assets at Tokyo-based Ichiyoshi
Investment Management Co. “A lot of buyers jumped on the shares
without any specific news.”  Softbank , Japan’s sole carrier offering Apple Inc.’s
iPhone, rose 2 percent to close at 2,860 yen on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange, with 16.8 million shares changing hands today. The
stock has added 32 percent this year, compared with a 6.8
percent decline by the benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average .  Subscriber Numbers  Softbank said yesterday after the 3 p.m. market close it
will pay Vodafone 212.5 billion yen in December and the
remaining 200 billion yen by April 2, 2012.  “We have no reason to believe anything inappropriate
occurred,”  Fumihiro Ito , a Tokyo-based spokesman at Softbank,
said by telephone today. “Perhaps the market welcomed our
October subscriber addition numbers,”  Softbank’s number of subscribers increased by 324,200 last
month, more than five times the additions from either of the
company’s two larger rivals, according to figures reported by
the companies this week.  “Generally speaking, a company would be the target of our
inspection and examination if the share price moved
significantly before or after the announcement of an event,”
said Tatsushi Terada, director of the strategy and policy
coordination division at the  Securities and Exchange
Surveillance Commission . Terada declined to say whether the
regulator is looking into any insider trading of Softbank
shares.  Suspicious Trading  Japan’s watchdog carried out 951 audits related to insider
trading in fiscal 2007, uncovering 23 cases, the SESC said in a
report in January 2009. That compares with 884 probes and 18
cases a year earlier, it said.  The Tokyo Stock Exchange last month said it’s investigating
suspicious trading of shares that fell before companies
announced capital-raising plans. Japan’s securities trading
watchdog said at the time it was monitoring the situation.  Nomura, Japan’s largest brokerage, in June fired an
employee in its mergers advisory department for breaking an
internal rule on insider trading. Japanese prosecutors in May
charged Takeshi Matsubara, a former employee of Aozora, with
insider trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yoshinori Eki  in Tokyo at 
 yeki@bloomberg.net ;
 Pavel Alpeyev  in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  