-- S. Korea Ruling Party to Seek Tax on Foreigners' Bond Holdings
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-11-10T03:24:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/south-korea-ruling-party-to-seek-14-tax-on-foreigners-holdings-of-bonds.html
South Korea may revive a 14 percent
tax on domestic Treasury and central bank bonds held by
foreigners as early as January to curb foreign-exchange
volatility, a ruling party lawmaker said.  “If we don’t do it right now and the situation worsens, we
may have to set up higher barricades,”  Kim Song Sik , a member
of the Grand National Party and the legislature’s financial
committee, said in an interview yesterday in Seoul. He also
called on the central bank to raise interest rates to head off
asset-price bubbles.  The bonds initiative is part of a series of measures across
Asia aimed at defusing the danger of hot money, or inflows of
capital that push up currency and asset values in the search for
short-term gains. Taiwan yesterday said it will restore curbs on
foreign investment in its debt, only allowing offshore funds to
have as much as 30 percent of their portfolios invested in all
types of government bonds and money-market products.  Kim said that a bill to resurrect South Korea’s levy will
be submitted to parliament this weekend or early next week, and
predicted passage by the end of the year.  “What I’m proposing is a predictable and reasonable hurdle
for capital flows in and out of the nation,” Kim said.  Won’s Gain  The won has advanced more than 9 percent against the dollar
since June, the second-best performer in Asia outside Japan,
after Thailand’s baht. It was little changed today at 1,113.75
per dollar as of 12:10 p.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. An appreciating currency threatens trade gains in
the export-led economy.  Thailand is ending foreigners’ 15 percent tax exemption on
income from domestic bonds, while Brazil last month tripled a
tax on purchases of local fixed-income assets by overseas
investors. Nations from China to South Africa have also strived
to limit currency gains as near-zero borrowing costs in advanced
economies spur demand for higher-yielding emerging-market assets.  Asian economies may need capital controls as U.S.
quantitative easing threatens to stoke asset bubbles in their
stock, currency and property markets, the World Bank said
yesterday.  The risk is that the restrictions diminish the appetite of
foreign investors on a more lasting basis, said strategist
 Christian Carrillo .  Long-Term Risk  “The re-imposing of the withholding tax could weaken the
Korean won temporarily but damage to foreign confidence on KTB
investments will be long-lasting,” Carrillo, head of Asia-
Pacific rates strategy at Societe Generale SA, said in Tokyo
yesterday, using the acronym for Korean Treasury Bonds.  Overseas investors currently don’t have to pay the 14
percent tax applied to domestic buyers. South Korea will
“seriously consider” whether to withdraw the exemptions,
Finance Minister  Yoon Jeung Hyun  said on Oct. 19.  “I’m pretty confident about the possibility of the bill
passing” this year, Kim said. “If approved, the bill will take
effect in January.” The tax on interest income and capital
gains would apply only to new purchases from that month.  The ruling Grand National Party controls 171 seats in the
299-member legislature. Kim said that opposition Democratic
Party lawmakers want even tougher capital control measures such
as a transaction tax.  ‘Lot of Discussion’  “If the proposal is submitted to parliament I expect a lot
of discussion on it,” said  Hae Yung Woo , director of the
government bond policy division at the Ministry of Strategy and
Finance.  South Korean regulators began an audit of banks handling
foreign-currency derivatives on Oct. 19 to tackle speculation.
Financial Supervisory Service Governor  Kim Jong Chang  said this
week the country may tighten curbs on bank trades of the
derivatives and penalize institutions acting improperly.  Overseas investors held 79 trillion won ($71 billion) of
South Korean debt in October, data from the Financial
Supervisory Service this month showed. Foreigners owned 7.1
percent of the country’s outstanding bonds.  The Grand National Party’s Kim also called on the 
Bank of Korea to take prompt action on monetary policy to 
avoid asset bubbles.  “If I were a central bank board member, I would raise
interest rates next week,” Kim said. “We need to normalize the
rates as we’re getting out of the crisis and secure some policy
tools to counter another possible crisis. It is critical to send
a clear signal of normalization and regain the market trust.”  The central bank kept the  benchmark interest rate 
unchanged at 2.25 percent after raising it by 25 basis points,
the first advance since the global financial crisis. The board
meets next week to decide interest rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
 Frances Yoon  at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net  