-- Stephen King Makes Deal With the Devil in Stomach-Turning Tales: Review
-- B y   A n d r e w   D u n n
-- 2010-11-10T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/stephen-king-makes-deal-with-the-devil-in-stomach-turning-tales-review.html
“ Full Dark, No Stars ,” the new
collection from  Stephen King , contains four sturdy, stomach-
turning tales: a killing haunts a family, a rape survivor takes
revenge, a sick man makes a deal with the devil and a killer
lives quietly in our midst.  Taken by themselves, these don’t sound terribly original.
But when you consider them together, you realize that the
stories are less about Horrific Deeds than the more interesting
Getting Away With Horrific Deeds.  That revelation won’t spoil the fun, because King, not one
to leave any possibility unexplored, revels in the many ways the
best laid plans of monsters and men often go awry.  King can write endless, entertaining and often pointless
novels that engage the reader until the final disappointing
page. His short fiction -- including “ Different Seasons ,”
“ Night Shift”  and now “Full Dark” -- jams the same dose of
terror and gore into a smaller package that far outshines his
longer work.  In the opening tale, “1922,” a farmer in Nebraska kills
his wife over a piece of land, with the help of their son.
(Readers of “ The Stand”  will recognize the setting.) As the
son’s life unravels, the father’s mind grows more unhinged.  In the second story, “Big Driver,” a complacent author of
mediocre cozy mysteries endures a terrible assault and
transforms into a hard-boiled, score-settling killer.  “How many unsuspected selves could a person have, hiding
deep inside?” King writes. “She was beginning to think the
number might be infinite.”  Existential Gem  “Fair Extension,” the third story, is the shortest and
best thing here. A deathly ill man cuts a deal with a roadside
salesman in exchange for a couple more decades of life. The
terms are as unexpected as the consequences are cringe-inducing.
To say more about this existential gem would be too much.  The final entry, “A Good Marriage,” begins with an
offhand laundry list of matrimonial moments big and small that’s
lyrically precise and pitch-perfect in its banality. This is
balanced with a steady drip of corrosive revelations that erode
the pleasant illusion. King, a master of the ordinary, marshals
each detail to make the big, gruesome reveal (based in part on
an actual story) that much more of a punch in the throat.  King  writes these stories in his usual effortless prose,
rambling through a world of farms and suburbs and tumbledown
shacks, putting, as he says in the afterword, “ordinary people
in extraordinary situations.” The detritus of pop culture and
daily life accumulate within his protagonists’ brains until, at
the moment of crisis, King rattles them around like a toddler
shaking a snow-globe.  “Full Dark, No Stars” is published by  Scribner  in the
U.S. and  Hodder & Stoughton  in the U.K. (368 pages, $27.99,
18.99 pounds). To buy this book in North America, click  here .  ( Andrew Dunn  writes for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on the story:
Andrew Dunn in New York at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  