-- Sudan Parliament Approves 2011 Budget, Says Can Be Changed After Ballot
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2010-11-10T15:21:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/sudan-parliament-approves-2011-budget-says-can-be-changed-after-ballot.html
Sudan’s parliament today approved
the country’s budget for next year, which foresees a deficit of
3.2 percent of economic output, Finance Minister Ali Mahmoud
Abdel Rasoul said.  The budget targets economic growth of 5 percent, similar to
this year’s figure, and an inflation rate of 12 percent, Abdel
Rasoul told reporters today at the national assembly in
Omdurman, a suburb of the capital, Khartoum. Oil output is
predicted at between 480,000 and 500,000 barrels per day, little
changed from this year, and the price of the Nile and Dar blends
is forecast at about $60 a barrel, he said.  The country plans to finance the budget gap by selling
Islamic bonds, known as Sukuk, among other domestic borrowing,
and by external loans of 4.4 billion Sudanese Pounds ($1.85
billion) from China, Arab nations, India and other countries,
Abdel Rasoul said.  Sudan relies on oil exports for most of its foreign
currency earnings. Output of 490,000 barrels a day makes it sub-
Saharan Africa’s third-largest producer, according to the BP
Statistical Review of World Energy. Most of the oil is pumped in
Southern Sudan, which is due to hold a referendum in January on
whether to declare independence.  The country is working on attracting foreign investors into
non-oil sectors such as gold mining and agriculture, in a bid to
diversify the economy, Abdel Rasoul said.  Sudan will soon pass legislation easing conditions for
foreign investors, President  Umar Al-Bashir  told parliament Oct.
12. The country expects more than $3 billion of foreign
investment in non-oil industries next year, up from $2 billion
in 2010, Abdel Rasoul said.  ‘Political Uncertainties’  “We expect after the referendum that foreign direct
investment will resume,” Central Bank Governor  Sabir Hassan 
said in an interview today. Currently, it’s “almost halted
because of political uncertainties,” he said.  Hassan last week announced plans to raise $600 million from
the sale of three-year local-currency Islamic bonds by the end
of this year, backed by the government’s share in the Khartoum
Refinery. The first tranche of $200 million is “fully
subscribed,” he said.  Sudan will sell more of the securities next year “if
needed,” Abdel Rasoul said. “We have the ability to issue more
Sukuk backed by other assets,” he said.  While the budget was drafted for a united Sudan, it could
be amended if the oil-rich southern region votes to secede in
January, Abdel Rasoul said.  Civil War  The independence referendum is a key component of a 2005
peace agreement which ended a two-decade civil war between
Sudan’s Muslim north and the south, where Christianity and
animist beliefs dominate. It would allow a six-month period
between a vote for independence and its declaration.  “In those six months we can prepare another budget,”
Abdel Rasoul said.  A study by the Washington-based National Democratic
Institute published Oct. 20 showed a majority of Southern
Sudanese favoring independence, while the Sudan government is
campaigning for voters in the region to choose unity.  Northern Sudan will not lose all its current revenue from
oil if the south secedes, as a new agreement must be reached on
revenue sharing, Hassan told reporters today. Under the peace
agreement, the two regions currently split revenue from oil
pumped in the south. The north produces 25 to 30 percent of the
country’s total output, Hassan said.  Sudan’s only oil refineries are also in the north, with the
largest,  Khartoum Refinery , a joint venture of the government
and China National Petroleum Corp., processing as much as
100,000 barrels of oil a day. All crude exports, including those
from the landlocked south, pass through a pipeline running north
from the oilfields to Port Sudan on the Red Sea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maram Mazen  in Khartoum via the Cairo newsroom at
   mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 