-- Sugar Exports by India to Exceed Forecasts on Output
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2010-11-10T11:43:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/sugar-exports-by-india-to-top-predictions-on-bumper-harvest-survey-shows.html
Sugar sales from  India , the second-
biggest producer, may beat industry predictions as output tops
usage for the first time in three years, likely limiting a rally
in global prices to the highest level in three decades.  Shipments may total 3 million metric tons in the year from
Oct. 1, according to six of 10 producers, traders and brokers
interviewed by Bloomberg News. That’s higher than 2 million tons
estimated by  the Indian Sugar Mills Association  and the National
Federation of Cooperative Sugar Factories Ltd.  “We’re heading for a  bumper crop ,” R.L. Tamak, business
head for sugar at the Indian subsidiary of Olam International
Ltd., said in a phone interview yesterday. “Indications from
the fields show that yields are better from a year ago.”  Increased supplies from India may help cool sugar prices
that reached the highest level in almost 30 years in  New York 
yesterday. The commodity climbed 23 percent this year as drought
and floods damaged crops in  Brazil ,  Russia  and  Pakistan , and as
investors bought commodities to protect their wealth.  “If the world market is paying these prices, why shouldn’t
we benefit,” said M.N. Rao, deputy director general of the
mills association. “It’s not the time to create an inventory.”  Raw sugar for March delivery soared as much as 4.5 percent
to 33.32 cents a pound in New York yesterday, the highest level
for the most active contract since January 1981, and ended at
33.11 cents. Prices fell as much as 2 percent to 32.45 cents in
after-hours trading today. White sugar for March delivery lost 1
percent to $795 a ton at 11:34 a.m. in  London .  Beating Demand  Production in India may jump to 25.5 million to 26 million
tons, seven of the 10 survey respondents said. Output may be 26
million to 28 million tons, according to the remaining three.  Mills produced 18.9 million tons last season, trailing
demand of 23 million tons, according to ISMA. Production was
26.4 million tons in 2007-2008, the last time that output
surpassed consumption, data from the group show.  The government may consider ending curbs on exports this
month, Farm Minister  Sharad Pawar  said on Oct. 27. Shipments
have been regulated after drought damaged crops last season.  “We’ve asked to export 2 million tons to begin with and we
will review that once the final figures come,” Vivek Saraogi,
managing director of  Balrampur Chini Mills Ltd ., the second-
biggest miller, and president of ISMA, said by phone. Exports
will be allowed “soon,” he told reporters today.  The National Federation of Cooperative Sugar Factories last
week forecast shipments of 2 million tons, less than the 2.5
million tons estimated in September, as demand from bulk users
to build reserves may reduce a surplus.    Uttar Pradesh  Floods  Exports may total 1.5 million to 2 million tons,  New York- 
based Commodore Research & Consultancy said Nov. 8, less than
the 3.5 million tons predicted previously, because of flooding
in parts of Uttar Pradesh.  Still, production the northern state, the country’s biggest
cane-grower, may total as much as 6.6 million tons, up from 5.2
million tons a year earlier, the Uttar Pradesh Sugar Mills
Association said Nov. 8.  “There will be no delay in crushing cane in Uttar Pradesh
compared with last year,” Balrampur’s Saraogi said.  In Maharashtra, India’s largest producer, output may total
a record 9.5 million tons, Prakash Naiknavare, managing director
of the Maharashtra State Cooperative Sugar Factories Federation
Ltd., said in an interview yesterday.  “We don’t see any issue with output and supplies,” he
said. “Exports should start as soon as possible.”  Mills in the state may crush 82.5 million tons of cane and
the recovery rate is expected to be 11.5 percent, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  