-- Surging Rare-Earth Prices Spur Mining in Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Greenland
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-10T03:14:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/surging-rare-earth-prices-spur-mining-in-kazakhstan-kyrgyzstan-greenland.html
Surging rare-earth prices are
spurring developments of deposits in Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and
Greenland as China cuts exports of the metals used in
BlackBerrys, televisions and  Toyota Motor Corp. ’s hybrid cars.  Sumitomo Corp. , Japan’s third-largest trading house, and
its local partner in Kazakhstan plan to start a pilot plant
about the end of next year to produce rare earths from uranium
tailings, said Yerzhan Ishanov, deputy director of general
affairs at Summit Atom Rare Earth Co., Sumitomo’s venture with
Kazatomprom, Kazakhstan’s state-owned nuclear company.  China, the source of more than 90 percent of the world’s
rare earths, in July reduced its second-half export quota by 72
percent to ensure domestic supply. Prices have jumped as much as
sevenfold in the past six months, prompting companies including
Glencore International AG, Stans Energy Corp. and Greenland
Minerals & Energy Ltd. to seek to restart and open mines.  “For main applications like rare-earth magnets and glass
catalysts, the (demand) increase is from 10 to 15 percent a
year,” Summit Atom’s Ishanov said. Japan’s consumption of the
metal products is about 40,000 metric tons a year at present, he
said.  China’s move to constrain supply has soured diplomatic
relations with Japan, which is moving to secure supplies from
Vietnam, the U.S., India and Germany. Rare earths are also used
in  Boeing Co.  helicopter blades and Raytheon Co. missiles.  iPod, Laptops  Rare earths are 17 chemically similar elements, including
neodymium and dysprosium. Prices of neodymium oxide, which is
used in mini hard drives in laptops and headphones in Apple’s
iPod, have surged four-fold to $80 kilogram from $19.12 in 2009,
according to Lynas Corp., whose Chief Executive Officer  Nicholas Curtis  is scheduled to attend the 6th International Rare Earths
Conference starting today in Hong Kong.  Stans Energy may restart operations at an open-pit mine in
Kyrgyzstan within 18 months to 24 months,  Robert Mackay ,
president and chief executive officer of the Toronto-based
company, said in an e-mail in response to Bloomberg questions.  Ramping up of global production “may be somewhat
protracted given the time it takes to obtain the necessary
permits and establish a supply chain for such complex
materials,” Mackay said.  Capital Intensive  Rare earth projects are capital intensive, requiring
investment of more than $40,000 per metric ton capacity,  Judith Chegwidden , the managing director of researcher Roskill
Information Services Ltd., said at the conference. Many deposits
also contain radioactive material that has to be contained or
stored, she said.  Summit Atom aims to produce 1,100 tons of rare-earth
concentrates a year from the pilot plant to supply Japan,
Ishanov said. The company may increase its production capacity
to between 10,000 tons and 15,000 tons by 2014-2015, he said.  Global demand for rare earths will rise to about 225,000
tons by 2015, compared with 125,000 tons this year,  Molycorp Inc. 
said last month, citing research from Roskill. Molycorp, owner
of the world’s largest non-Chinese deposit of rare-earth metals,
and Lynas both plan to open mines in the next two years.  Greenland Project  Greenland Minerals plans to start production at a mine in
the southwest of Greenland in 2016, Damien Krebs, metallurgy
manager of the Perth, Australia-based company, said in an
interview.  The company aims to trade its shares on the London Stock
Exchange next year to raise about $100 million to finish the
initial study of the project, Krebs said. An initial estimate of
the capital cost for the project was $2.2 billion, including a
processing plant, he said.  Government agencies of Japan and South Korea and companies
including  General Electric Co.  have approached Greenland to see
how they “can secure the rare-earths in the future,” Krebs
said.  China has come to dominate the market because it has been
able to produce the elements more cheaply and with fewer
environmental restrictions than its competitors. While the
elements aren’t as rare in nature as the name implies, they are
difficult to find in profitable concentrations, expensive for
Western producers to extract and often laced with radioactive
elements.  -- Helen Yuan . Editors:  Keith Gosman ,  Andrew Hobbs   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Yuan in Hong Kong at  hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  