-- Sydney Home Price Gains to Slow After Advance from 2004 Peak, RP Data Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-11-10T07:50:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/sydney-home-price-gains-to-slow-after-advance-from-2004-peak-rp-data-says.html
Sydney’s home price gains may slow
after rising 13 percent above their 2004 peak, according to real
estate researcher RP Data.  Prices in Australia’s biggest city have risen an average
9.1 percent in the 12 months ended Aug. 31 to A$580,000
($582,000) for houses and A$450,000 for apartments, according to
a RP Data study prepared for  St. George Bank Ltd.  Prices are
expected to stay at the current level through 2011, it said.  “The good news for first-home buyers is that average
Sydney house prices are expected to stay relatively stable in
the short term, so they shouldn’t feel rushed to jump into the
market,”  Justin Smirk , chief economist at St. George Bank, said
in an e-mailed statement. “Affordability remains the key factor
for property prices in Sydney,” which will help offset a
shortage of properties and keep prices level, he said.  Sydney residential prices have underperformed the overall
Australian market over the past 10 years, rising 6.4 percent
annually, compared with 9.5 percent nationally. A growing
population in New South Wales, the state where Sydney is located,
and the property shortage will help drive prices higher over
time, RP Data said.  Gains in home prices may also be capped after the Reserve
Bank of Australia raised its benchmark interest rate by a
quarter of a percentage point to 4.75 percent last week and said
it welcomed a cooling in housing prices.  Home values across Australian capital cities rose 8 percent
in the year ended Aug. 31 because of faster population growth
and constrained supply in one of the few economies to skirt last
year’s global recession. Organizations including  Westpac Banking
Corp. ,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  and Fitch Ratings have
said those factors, as well as a lack of speculative buying,
will keep the market from collapsing.  St. George Bank is owned by  Westpac , the nation’s second-
biggest lender.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  