-- U.K. Traders' Cell-Phone Calls May Taped Under Regulator's Plan
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2010-11-10T11:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/u-k-traders-mobile-phone-calls-may-taped-under-fsa-insider-trading-rule.html
Traders’ mobile-telephone calls may
be taped in an effort to stamp out insider trading under rules
scheduled to be published by the U.K. financial regulator as
soon as this week.  The  Financial Services Authority  has  said  cell phones used
for business shouldn’t be exempt from rules requiring banks and
brokerages to record employees’ calls so that they can be
listened to later. In March, the agency said in draft proposals
that around 22,000 phones would be covered.  “People that wouldn’t have complied anyway will find ways
around the new regulations,” said  Ian Mason , a partner at Baker
& McKenzie in London. “Your committed insider dealer is going
to find ways around that,” by using personal phones or meeting
in bars, he said.  The U.S. insider-trading case against Galleon Group LLC’s
chief executive officer,  Raj Rajaratnam , was brought using
evidence in part from mobile-phone conversations the government
got permission to wiretap. The FSA is increasing efforts to
prosecute insider trading after criticism from lawmakers that it
wasn’t doing enough to prevent the crime.  The regulator in September warned companies to prevent
leaks to the media as part of its effort to crack down on market
abuse. The FSA started to cold-call traders to interview them
under caution two years ago about possible insider trading, a
strategy that fell prey to hoax calls.  Galleon ‘Influence’  “The Galleon case may be an influence, but the FSA wants
to toughen up on market abuse,” Mason said. “That’s been a big
thing for them.”  The FSA has convicted six people of insider trading since
March 2009, including a March guilty verdict against  Malcolm Calvert , a former partner at JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Cazenove
unit. Calvert served about a third of a 21-month sentence before
being released this year.  Chris Hamilton, an FSA spokesman in London, declined to
comment. The regulator said in March that the final rules would
be published by the end of the year.  “We continue to work to keep undesirable people out of our
financial services industry,” FSA enforcement chief  Margaret Cole  said in a speech yesterday. “We use information and
intelligence from a range of sources to consider whether those
who own or run financial firms, as well as people in sensitive
roles within those businesses, are ‘fit and proper.’”  Privacy Rights  Companies should make sure employees don’t use private
phones or e-mail for business to circumvent the recording, the
FSA said. Banks would have the option of banning employees from
using mobiles for business use, the regulator said in March.  “With many people having a single mobile phone for both
business and personal use, organizations will need to establish
a call recording protocol that does not infringe on an
employee’s right to privacy,” said Charles Rich a sales manager
for  CTI Group , a provider of call management applications for
the financial industry.  The FSA, facing dissolution by 2012,  is lobbying  for its
enforcement unit to become part a proposed Consumer Protection
and Markets Authority. Along with the independent CPMA, the U.K.
plans to create a Prudential Regulatory Authority at the Bank of
England to oversee financial regulation.  The FSA is currently prosecuting 11 people for trading with
insider information and has convicted six men for the crime
since March 2009. The agency never prosecuted a criminal
insider-trading case before 2008.  “Our members fully support the drive to reduce the risk of
market abuse,” said  Rob McIvor , a managing director at the
Association for Financial Markets in Europe, a trade group for
the banking industry. “However, as with all regulation, such
measures would inevitably introduce additional costs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 