-- Government Risks `National Humiliation' in the Falklands, Commanders Warn
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2010-11-10T09:03:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/u-k-risks-national-humiliation-in-falklands-commanders-warn.html
A group of former military
commanders warned that Britain faces “national humiliation” in
the  Falkland Islands  after its decision to scrap the aircraft
carrier Ark Royal and Harrier jump jets.  The decision should be reversed, the retired commanders,
including former First Sea Lords  Julian Oswald  and  Alan West ,
said in a letter to the Times of London today. Rather than
scrapping the Harriers, the U.K. should have retired its force
of  Tornado  combat aircraft, which will cost seven times as much
over the next 10 years.  “In respect of the newly valuable Falklands and their
oilfields, because of these and other cuts for the next 10 years
at least, Argentina is practically invited to attempt to inflict
on us a national humiliation on the scale of the loss of
Singapore,” the admirals wrote, referring to the surrender of
the island garrison in 1942. “The decision to ax the entire
Harrier force is strategically and financially perverse.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron  was badly advised in last
month’s strategic defense review, which was aimed at narrowing
the record budget deficit and redefining the U.K.’s military
needs, the commanders wrote. The Harriers would be more useful
in Afghanistan than the Tornados because they can take off from
shorter runways, work better in intense heat and be more quickly
mobilized, they said.  “This was a very difficult decision between the Harrier
and the Tornado,” Defense Minister  Nick Harvey  told the BBC’s
“ Today”  program. “We took a decision on the basis of the
balance of military advice coming from the current military
leadership.”  ‘Different Situation’  Harvey said the U.K. is capable of defending the Falklands,
a South Atlantic island group that Argentina calls the Malvinas
and invaded in 1982 before being expelled by British troops.
There are more  troops  on the islands than ever before, Harvey
said, and launching strikes from carriers is only one option for
recapturing the islands.  “The Falklands is a very different situation now than it
was in 1982 and we’re far more alert to the threat,” he said.
“We’ve got a very well defended airfield.”  Of the five signatories to the letter, four are former
Royal Navy commanders and one is a Royal Marine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling in Paris at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 