-- London Police Say 35 Arrested in Connection With Fee Protest by Students
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2010-11-10T21:51:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/u-k-students-smash-windows-at-conservative-headquarters-in-fees-protest.html
Demonstrating students broke windows
at the complex housing the headquarters of U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s Conservative Party in London in protest against
plans to cut funding to universities and increase tuition fees.  Thirty-five people were arrested, while seven police
officers and seven protesters were injured in the demonstration,
a Metropolitan Police spokesman said by phone.  The protesters smashed glass on the ground floor of the 27-
story Millbank Tower on the north bank of the River Thames,
close to Parliament, today as a planned march turned violent.
Demonstrators started a fire outside the building, burning
effigies of Cameron and Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg .  Cameron’s coalition government plans to allow British
universities to charge as much as 9,000 pounds ($14,000) a year
for tuition, almost triple the current level, as the government
seeks to cut subsidies to colleges. It’s the first major protest
since the government outlined its plans on Oct. 20 to reduce
spending by 81 billion pounds by 2015 to narrow the  record
budget deficit .  “We may be becoming more Greek and French in our attitude
to economic stringency,”  Bill Jones , professor of politics at
Liverpool Hope University, said in a telephone interview.
“Usually the British are much more culturally phlegmatic. This
may be a sign of things to come.”  ‘No to Cuts’  Around 30 students managed to get on to the roof of the
tower to unfurl a banner that read “No to Cuts,” while some
threw missiles and sprayed fire extinguishers. Helmeted riot
police moved in to guard the building, and office workers were
evacuated. Several hundred protesters, some drinking cans of
beer, massed in the foyer of the tower, smashing furniture and
chanting slogans.  The president of the National Union of Students, Aaron
Porter, threatened to unseat lawmakers who back the measures. He
told reporters in London before the march that students will
attempt to force special elections in the districts of Liberal
Democrats who renege on pledges made before the May 6 election
to oppose any increase. The Liberal Democrats joined the
Conservatives in government after the vote.  “We will initiate a right to recall against any MP that
breaks their pledge on tuition fees,” Porter said. He later
used Twitter Inc.’s social-networking website to condemn the
violent protests. “Disgusted that the actions of a minority of
idiots are trying to undermine 50,000 who came to make a
peaceful protest,” he wrote.  ‘Small Minority’  The Metropolitan Police had no immediate estimate of
numbers. It blamed the damage to property in a statement on “a
small minority of protesters.”  “This was thuggish, loutish behavior by criminals and we
need to ensure that we have a thorough investigation to bring
these criminals in front of a court to answer for their
crimes,” Metropolitan Police Commissioner  Paul Stephenson  told
Sky News television. “It’s not acceptable. It’s an
embarrassment for London and an embarrassment for us.”  Leanne Johnston, 23, an English and drama student at  John
Moores University  in Liverpool, said the break-in to the tower
was carried out by “a group of people that didn’t look like the
core group of students.” The hard-core protesters looked like
“punks,” she said in an interview.  ‘Not Fair’  “Whatever the merits of the points they’re making, there’s
absolutely no excuse for a tiny minority to engage in acts of
savage and unnecessary brutality,” London Mayor  Boris Johnson 
told Sky. “I very much hope the people responsible for these
actions will be brought to justice.”  Another demonstrator, James Huelin, a 24-year-old civil-
engineering student at the University of Bath, was dressed in a
suit that appeared to be made of pound and dollar notes.  “The bottom line is it’s not fair,” he said in an
interview. “The choice to go to university should be based on
academic ability, not the size of your wallet.”  Liberal Democrat Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  may
struggle to stop some of his lawmakers who have expressed
concern about the proposals from voting against them. Deputizing
for Cameron at the premier’s weekly 30-minute question-and-
answer session in Parliament today, Clegg was asked 12 times
about the plans.  The deputy leader of the opposition Labour Party,  Harriet Harman , accused Clegg of being swayed by Conservative plans when
the Liberal Democrats joined the coalition.  ‘Led Astray’  “We all know what it’s like: you are at freshers’ week,
you meet up with a dodgy bloke and you do things that you
regret,” Harman told Clegg. “Isn’t it true he has been led
astray by the Tories?”  Clegg responded that the decision to charge students was a
result of the poor state that Labour left the public finances in
after 13 years in power.  “I have been entirely open about the fact that we have not
been able to deliver the policy that we held in opposition,”
Clegg said. “Because of the financial situation, because of the
compromises of the coalition government we have had to put
forward a different policy.”  The Liberal Democrats have stood by their “wider
ambition” of making sure poorer students are not deterred from
going to university, he said.  “There may be more instances of this kind but whether the
protests will match the level of violence seen around the poll-
tax riots in the 1980s remains to be seen,”  Wyn Grant , a
professor of politics at Warwick University and an expert on
protest movements, said in a telephone interview.  Community Charge  Margaret Thatcher ’s Conservative government brought in the
flat-rate community charge, known as the poll tax, at the end of
the 1980s to replace a system of local taxes on real estate. It
led to widespread protests and was replaced with a different
property-based levy in the 1990s under Thatcher’s successor,
 John Major .  “I don’t think the government will suddenly change its
policy given the overall fiscal context,” Grant said. “There
will be some Liberal Democrat rebels but not enough to defeat
the government in the House of Commons.”  Earlier today, during a trip to China, Cameron defended fee
rises to students at Beijing’s Peking University.  “In the past we have been pushing up the fees on overseas
students and using that as a way of keeping them down for
domestic students,” Cameron said. “We have done the difficult
thing. We have put up contributions for British students.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Spillane  in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 