-- U.S. Diplomats to Take On New Iraq Security Roles in Afghanistan Preview
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2010-11-10T23:23:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/u-s-diplomats-to-take-on-new-iraq-security-roles-in-afghanistan-preview.html
The challenge for American diplomats
who take over security support in Iraq from the U.S. military
next year starts with this: They are to provide protection
without carrying guns.  They also will be responsible for running their own fleet
of aircraft and operating a rocket-warning system, with fewer
than 1,100 civil servants replacing a force as large as 50,000
U.S. troops.  As many as 7,000 security contractors along with military
companies will pick up where soldiers left off in shoring up a
nascent Iraqi police force and shielding Americans from attack.  Saddling the State Department with traditionally military
tasks at a fraction of the manpower poses a risky test in a
country that still averages 15 insurgent attacks a day and has
failed to form a ruling coalition eight months after elections.  “I worry a great deal about that transition,” said  Ryan Crocker , U.S. ambassador to Iraq between 2007 and 2009. “The
capacity does not exist on the civilian side to take on the vast
array of roles and missions that the military has so ably
performed in Iraq.”  The experiment presages what’s to come in Afghanistan,
where the U.S. plans a gradual drawdown beginning in July. It
also underscores the U.S.  reliance  on private military
contractors such as  DynCorp International Inc.  and Triple Canopy
Inc. to perform jobs, from helicopter pilot to security guard,
that diplomats can’t do and will have to oversee.  Worried Yet Ready  “Am I worried? Yes,” Undersecretary of State  Patrick Kennedy , who’s handling the transition, said in an Oct. 16
interview. “Do I feel we will be ready? Also, yes.”  House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman  Howard Berman  said
he wants to make sure. The California Democrat has called top
State Department and Pentagon officials to a hearing on Nov. 17
to discuss preparations for the transition.  “This transition is an unprecedented undertaking” for the
State Department, Berman said in an e-mail. “I want to be
reassured that State’s transition plan can work effectively. If
it can’t, we need to know now.”  President  Barack Obama  needs success in Iraq as an example
of democratic rule and economic prosperity in the Arab world and
to provide a regional counterweight to Iran. A flagging U.S.
effort would undermine Iraq’s progress in reducing violence
since the height of the insurgency three years ago.  Dividing Oil Revenue  American economic interests are also at stake. With Iraq’s
crude oil reserves the world’s fifth largest, deciding how to
divide the revenue among feuding factions is just one potential
crisis that U.S. diplomats will face once Iraqi leaders agree on
a coalition.  The plan for U.S. forces to leave Iraq in December 2011
dates to an agreement negotiated under President  George W. Bush .
Obama ordered this year’s interim cut to 50,000 troops after he
took office in a bid to wind down a conflict that has lasted
more than seven years, killed more than 3,400 U.S. soldiers and
cost $750 billion.  Diplomats and other civilians working for the State
Department and the U.S. Agency for International Development
outside Baghdad currently live on U.S. military bases. They’re
fed by the military, receive their security from the military
and shuttle to and from the capital on military aircraft. U.S.
troops operate a rocket-warning system for the embassy in
Baghdad. All that goes away when the U.S. Army leaves.  Cutting Budget  Still, Congress has proposed cutting $150 million to $425
million from Obama’s request for $1.8 billion for the State
Department’s operations in Iraq this year, the type of cut that
could limit diplomats’ movements out of their compounds without
sufficient security. The Defense Department spent $2.66 billion
a week at the peak of the  conflict  in 2007-2008.  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  “can go to the Congress and
ask for $500 billion and get it all,” Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  told a Washington gathering Oct. 6. “I go to
the Congress and ask for $50 billion and they cut $5 billion.”  Republicans seizing control of the U.S. House following
Nov. 2 congressional midterm elections aren’t likely to change
the scenario in a time of record federal budget  deficits ,
according to  Peter Feaver , who worked on the National Security
Council under Bush and President  Bill Clinton .  Some members of Congress “really want to push down
anything to do with Iraq and remove this burden as soon as
possible,” said Iraq’s ambassador to Washington,  Samir Sumaida’ie . “That’s dangerous.”  The Pentagon is granting some of the equipment the State
Department has requested. In an exception, other transport
helicopters will be substituted for the military’s warhorse
Black Hawks, which are needed elsewhere.  ‘Very Difficult Mission’  “This is a very, very difficult mission,”  James Jeffrey ,
the new ambassador to Iraq, told his Senate confirmation
hearing. “It involves thousands of people, many movements and a
very lethal environment.”  By January 2012, the U.S. ambassador will oversee more than
13,500 personnel, an increase of almost 80 percent from about
7,600 in July, according to the Special Inspector General for
Iraq Reconstruction.  Many will be employed by private security and logistics
companies. The number of security contractors will double to as
many as 7,000 from 2,700, and their tasks will include such
missions as disabling roadside bombs.  Diplomats and Drones  “We never intended our diplomatic services to need attack
helicopters, overhead eyes in the sky, predator drones and the
like,”  Darrell Issa  of California, the top Republican on the
House oversight committee, told a Sept. 23 hearing.  Under a Sept. 30 contract award, eight companies including
DynCorp, Triple Canopy and a provider linked to the company
formerly known as Blackwater Worldwide won the right to compete
for $10 billion of State Department security business over five
years in Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan.  DynCorp spokeswoman  Ashley Burke  referred queries on
contracts to the State Department. The former Blackwater
Worldwide, now known as Xe Services LLC, didn’t return repeated
calls. Triple Canopy didn’t respond to repeated e-mails.  Private companies also will help train police. While the
State Department ran civilian police programs in Colombia, where
contractors were used to fumigate coca crops, military experts
say that mission pales in comparison to the law-enforcement
institutions needed in Iraq.  Army General  Ray Odierno , the previous commander of U.S.
troops in Iraq, said police training would be “the most
difficult” task for the State Department.  “There is a long way to go,” said  Kenneth Pollack , an
analyst at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington and author of
“A Path out of the Desert: A Grand Strategy for America in the
Middle East.” “This thing could go bad very easily.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in Washington at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  