-- U.S. Stocks Fall on Cisco Outlook; Euro Weakens, Copper Gains
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2010-11-11T21:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/u-s-stock-futures-decline-on-cisco-forecast-yen-gains-aussie-weakens.html
U.S. stocks fell for the third time
this week as  Cisco Systems Inc.  said profit will miss analyst
estimates, while the euro weakened and Irish bonds slid amid
concern indebted European nations may need bailouts. London
copper touched a record as China’s industrial production grew.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index sank 0.4 percent to
1,213.54 at 4 p.m. in New York. The measure extended losses
after Walt Disney Co. reported earnings that trailed estimates.
The euro weakened against 14 of its 16 most-traded peers and
reached a one-month low versus the dollar. The yield on Irish
10-year bonds rose to a record 6.52 percentage points above
benchmark German bunds.  Cisco’s forecast triggered a selloff in technology
companies, the group that has led the S&P 500’s 16 percent rally
since the end of August. Bank shares followed the euro and Irish
bonds lower after French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said
yesterday that investors must share the cost of sovereign debt
restructurings, backing a German call that helped drive yields
on so-called peripheral bonds to record highs.  “Cisco’s sector is a bellwether in terms of companies’
capital expenditures,” said  James Dunigan , chief investment
officer at PNC Wealth Management in Philadelphia, which oversees
$105 billion. “It’s hard to look at one company and say we’re
off track, but people will always try to look a little further
for an idea of economic growth going forward. The backdrop to
all this is the European situation, where these countries still
face the challenge of bringing their fiscal houses in order.”  Yesterday’s Gain Lost  The S&P 500 wiped out yesterday’s 0.4 percent advance and
fell below its lowest close since Nov. 3, the day the Federal
Reserve announced plans to pump as much as $600 billion into the
economy through purchases of Treasuries.  Cisco , the sixth-largest U.S. technology company by market
value, tumbled 16 percent, the most in more than 16 years. The
company faced a “challenging economic environment” last
quarter, Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  said. He blamed
the slump on lower government spending in developed countries
and market-share losses. Competition has forced Cisco to cut
prices on some products and seek acquisitions to maintain growth.  S&P 500 technology companies lost 1.8 percent collectively,
the biggest drop among 10 groups. JPMorgan Chase & Co., Wells
Fargo & Co. and Bank of America Corp. paced losses in banks.  Disney  slumped 2.9 percent after saying fourth-quarter
profit excluding certain items fell to 45 cents a share, missing
by 2 cents the average estimate of 25 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  ‘They Disappointed’  “Like Cisco, Disney is the kind of company that’s held to
high regard and they basically disappointed,” said  Jason Cooper ,
who oversees $2.5 billion in South Bend, Indiana at 1st Source
Investment Advisors, which owns shares of Disney. “We had such
negative news today it probably didn’t matter who you were, if
you had any kind of miss or blip, you were going to get punished.
This will probably continue to add negative pressure when we see
stocks open tomorrow.”  Almost 76  percent  of companies in the S&P 500 that reported
earnings since Oct. 7 have beaten analysts’ estimates for per-
share profit, according to data  compiled by Bloomberg . Viacom
Inc., the owner of MTV Networks and Comedy Central, had adjusted
quarterly profit of 75 cents a share, compared with the 70-cent
average estimate of analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Its Class B
shares rallied 2.8 percent.  Three stocks fell for every one that gained in Europe’s
Stoxx 600. Bank of Ireland tumbled 7.9 percent and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc slumped 2.7 percent.  Telefonica SA , Europe’s
second-biggest phone company, slid 1.6 percent as earnings
missed estimates. Siemens AG rallied 2.6 percent after boosting
its dividend.  Euro Slips  The euro slid 0.9 percent to $1.3658, while the Dollar
Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against those of six
trading partners,  added  0.7 percent, rising for the fifth
consecutive day, the longest run of gains since August.  The yuan rose 0.1 percent to 6.6257 per dollar as leaders
of the Group of 20 nations gathered in Seoul amid growing
concern about trade imbalances and foreign-exchange controls.
The currency reached 6.6173 in Shanghai, the highest since 1993,
amid speculation policy makers will accept a stronger yuan to
curb inflation and meet the demands of trading partners.  The bonds of Ireland, Greece and Spain declined, sending
spreads over bunds wider. The gap between Greek 10-year bonds
and similar-maturity German debt  increased  20 basis points, or
0.20 percentage point, to 917 basis points, with the Spanish-
German spread expanding 16 basis points to 220 basis points.  ‘Nail in Coffin’  “Lagarde’s comments mentioned restructuring, and that’s
another nail in the coffin” for peripheral debt, said  Steven Major , global head of fixed-income research at HSBC Holdings Plc
in London. “There’s still a big constituency of investors and
traders who have not recognized until now that restructuring
could happen.”  The cost of insuring the bonds of Irish banks soared to
distressed levels amid concern that the government won’t be able
to afford the cost of bailing out the nation’s banks. Credit-
default swaps on subordinated debt of Allied Irish Banks Plc,
the nation’s second-largest lender, are 60 percent upfront and 5
percent a year, meaning it costs 6 million euros ($8.2 million)
in advance and 500,000 euros annually to insure 10 million euros
of the bank’s debt for five years.  U.S. bond markets are closed for the Veterans’ Day holiday.  The Kospi, South Korea’s benchmark equities gauge, plunged
2.7 percent in the last minute of trading, as the expiration of
options contracts spurred the largest-ever sale of equities by
foreign investors. The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  of 21
countries retreated 0.9 percent, falling for a second day after
reaching the highest level since June 2008 last week.  Emerging Markets  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended closing out its
suggested bet that emerging market  stocks  will outperform the
S&P 500, citing improving U.S. economic data on jobs and service
industries and inflation in developing nations. Investors should
close positions that benefit from outperformance of the iShares
MSCI Emerging Markets Index Fund over the S&P 500, Goldman Sachs
strategists said in a note to clients.  The emerging-markets exchange-traded fund gained 29 percent
from the end of June through yesterday, compared with an 18
percent advance for the S&P 500.  “The near-term outlook for this type of relative trade
versus the U.S. is more muddied than it has been for some
time,” the Goldman report said. Equities in emerging markets
“should remain broadly well-supported, but after a strong run
since September, it will be important to be more selective going
forward.”  China Rating  China had its debt rating raised one step today to Aa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service, which cited the nation’s financial
strength and ability to contain losses from a credit boom.  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  advanced 1 percent after
Moody’s upgraded the nation’s debt to the fourth-highest
investment grade. The nation’s efforts to tackle asset bubbles
and avert the spread of bad loans has meant the “likely
containment and effective management” of losses from record
lending last year to counter the financial crisis, Moody’s said.
That combined with China’s “resilient” economic growth were
reasons for the upgrade, the ratings company said.  Copper pared gains after touching an all-time high of
$8,966 a metric ton in London after China’s industrial
production advanced 13 percent in October.  The S&P  GSCI  index of 24 commodities slipped 0.3 percent.
Cotton futures, which reached a record for a seventh straight
day during the trading session yesterday, declined amid mounting
signs that demand will ease in China, the world’s biggest
consumer. Orange juice also dropped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at   ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Kirkland  in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 