-- Budget Deficit in U.S. Narrowed to $140.4 Billion in October
-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 2010-11-10T19:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/u-s-budget-deficit-narrowed-to-140-4-billion-last-month-on-tax-receipts.html
The U.S. government posted a smaller
budget deficit in October compared with the same month last year
as an improving economy led to a pickup in tax receipts.  The  deficit  totaled $140.4 billion last month compared with
$176.4 billion in October 2009, according to the Treasury
Department’s budget statement released in Washington. In the
fiscal year ended Sept. 30, the government reported its second-
largest annual budget deficit on record.  While the economic recovery that started in June last year
has helped generate more revenue for the Treasury, the
Congressional Budget Office estimates the deficit this fiscal
year will exceed $1 trillion for a third time. Cutting the
budget shortfall may prove challenging with a newly elected
Republican majority in the House of Representatives and
President Barack Obama, a Democrat, in the White House.  “With the economic downturn over, and the economy,
employment, and corporate profits now growing, government
spending has flattened out while tax receipts have begun to
recover,”  Steven Wood , president of Insight Economics, LLC in
Danville, California, said in a note to clients.  Economists forecast an October budget deficit of $140
billion, according to the median of 35 projections in a
Bloomberg News survey. The Congressional Budget Office, in a
forecast issued Nov. 5, also estimated a shortfall of $140
billion.  Revenue Climbs  Spending  for the entire government dropped 8.1 percent in
October to $286.4 billion compared with a calendar-related jump
in payments in the same month last year.  Revenue and other
income  increased 7.9 percent to $146 billion, according to the
Treasury’s statistics.  Department of Defense spending fell 3.5 percent from
October 2009. Outlays by the Social Security Administration
decreased 2.3 percent to $63.7 billion. The Department of Health
and Human Services, which administers the Medicare and Medicaid
programs, decreased its spending by 17 percent to $71.6 billion.  Corporate income tax receipts last month were a negative
$4.4 billion. Individual income tax collections climbed 17
percent over the same period.  Debate over budget and taxes will be front and center after
this month’s election shifted control of the House to the
Republicans. Democrats, while losing some seats to Republicans,
retained control of the Senate.  CBO Projections  The CBO said Aug. 19 that the budget shortfall this fiscal
year will be almost $1.1 trillion. The deficit will amount to 7
percent of the nation’s gross domestic product, the nonpartisan
agency’s semi-annual budget report projected.  The CBO’s deficit forecasts don’t include changes in tax
revenue or government spending not yet approved by Congress.
Lawmakers may soon take up debate on whether to extend the tax
cuts put in place in 2001 and 2003 when George W. Bush was
president.  Leaders of the presidential commission on government
spending today proposed a $3.8 trillion deficit-cutting plan
that would slash Social Security and Medicare, reduce income-tax
rates and eliminate tax breaks including the mortgage-interest
deduction.  The fight over the Bush tax cuts is developing as
Republicans call for reduced government spending. In Nov. 7
television appearances, Republican leaders said last fiscal
year’s $1.3 trillion deficit is a sign of excessive spending,
not the need for more revenue.  Obama said he is ready to negotiate on an extension of
Bush-era tax cuts for high-income taxpayers. At a Nov. 3 news
conference, Obama said he hoped to avoid “brinkmanship” with
lawmakers. The tax policies are set to expire Dec. 31.  Congress must also work out a budget for the new fiscal
year after approving legislation Sept. 30 to prevent a shutdown
of federal agencies. The measure, known as a continuing
resolution, has kept most government programs on their budgets
for the previous fiscal year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vincent Del Giudice  in Washington 
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  