-- U.S. in ‘Multi-Year Bull Market,’ Morgan Stanley’s Darst Says
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2010-11-10T20:51:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/u-s-stocks-are-in-multi-year-bull-market-morgan-stanley-s-darst-says.html
U.S. stocks are in the early stages
of a “multi-year bull market,” with the largest companies priced
“like Rembrandts laying on the driveway in a tag sale,”
according to  David Darst , the chief investment strategist at
Morgan Stanley Smith Barney.  Darst spoke in New York today at a presentation by the
world’s largest brokerage, a joint venture between Morgan
Stanley and Citigroup Inc.  On stocks:  “The real laggard of the last 10 years has been your
Schlumberger, your Pfizer, your Johnson. AstraZeneca,
GlaxoSmithKline, Nestle, Novartis -- they’re sitting there
paying you 3, 4, 5 percent and trading for 12, 13, 14 times
earnings. This is one of the scariest things. These great big
companies are sitting there like Rembrandts laying on the
driveway in a tag sale.”  “We think we can have a multi-year bull market. We’d be
very surprised if we started a new 18-year, Reagan-Thatcher bull
market.”  On Latin American stocks:  “America ‘Brazilified’ and Brazil ‘Americafied.’ Their
middle class grew and strengthened and ours shrank and weakened.
The baby boom generation is in conflict with taking it from our
elders who are passing on and we’re not going to give it to our
kids. We’re going to tax them to pay for Botox and being
stretched out on a yoga mat.”  On Treasury bonds:  “Beware of Treasury bonds at 2.5 percent. Don’t overweight
them in your portfolios. People were buying these hand-over-fist
today at 2.5 percent. In 1981, it was yielding 16 percent and
people shunned them like the plague.”  On China:  “The U.S.-China relationship is the single most important
relationship in the world for the prosperity of the planet going
forward. Let’s treat this like a small child that’s a year old
that we’re being so careful how we handle that little infant.
Let’s not throw it around.”  On this year’s best-performing stocks:  “You know what the number one performing stock group in
the U.S. is this year? Here’s the hint: This group is up 79
percent. What is the group? Gambling stocks.”  “Las Vegas is in a mess. In 2005, Las Vegas had $6 billion
in gambling revenue, Macau had $6 billion. This year, Las Vegas
has $6 billion, Macau has $22 billion. We get exposure to it
through these companies. Las Vegas Sands. Singapore, five years
ago? Zero. This year, the annual rate -- because they only
opened halfway through this year -- but by December, $12
billion. Find your U.S. companies that are really, secretly
emerging market exposure headquartered in Cincinnati and
Atlanta.”  On gold investing:  “We’re bulls on gold, but we’re nervous bulls. We don’t
like when something goes parabolic straight up like a skyrocket,
which gold has been doing. We would say be careful, be cautious.
Let this thing calm down a little bit.”  “Gold has been talked about a lot. Robert Zoellick, head
of the World Bank, said that gold in a modified basis deserves a
place in the international monetary system, and the reaction has
been wild. Governor Mark Carney, head of the Bank of Canada,
said gold has no place in the international monetary system. So
you’ve got different things going on.”  On the U.S. dollar:  “We need money to have value, and we need to be careful.
If the U.S. can get its act together, the dollar can remain the
key primary reserve currency for the next 30 to 50 years.”  On the Federal Reserve’s quantitative easing:  “This was not a recession we had. This was a credit
collapse and an asset price meltdown. Therefore, the medicine
has to be different, that’s why we’re doing quantitative
easing.”  “There’s been a big pushback on QE2 from the international
sector. There are risks associated with this QE2, and those
risks involve the fact that we’re using the world’s reserve
currency for political gain in the U.S. They all see us doing it
and they’re making noise in response. You had China, Germany,
Brazil, Japan, Russia and even Luxembourg come out very negative
on this.”  On the outlook for the U.S.:  “It’s not all over for the United States of America. We
think the U.S. is going through a transition, a resetting, a
purging, a cleansing, and a catharsis, setting the ground for
that next mind-blowing, jaw-dropping generation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Lachapelle  in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  