-- U.S. Says Closing Ex-Goldman Programmer's Trial Needed to Protect Secrets
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-11-10T23:04:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/u-s-says-closing-ex-goldman-programmer-s-trial-needed-to-protect-secrets.html
The trial of former  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  computer programmer  Sergey Aleynikov  should be held
partly behind closed doors because the U.S. says he may disclose
the firm’s trade secrets “in great detail.”  Aleynikov was arrested in July 2009 and indicted Feb. 11 in
what a prosecutor said was the “most substantial” theft that
New York-based  Goldman Sachs  could recall. The trial is
scheduled to begin Nov. 29 before U.S. District Judge  Denise Cote  in New York.  In court filings, Aleynikov said he will argue that the
material he is accused of stealing isn’t a trade secret. He also
said he will discuss “either in cross-examination or in a
defense case, the way in which the allegedly stolen components
interacted with the rest of Goldman Sach’s high-frequency
trading system.”  Prosecutors said in a court filing today that they may seek
to show the trial jury how those components work together, which
would require a sealed courtroom to protect trade secrets.  A closed courtroom is warranted under the Economic
Espionage Act, which insures victims of such crimes aren’t “re-
victimized” at a trial by public disclosure of their trade
secrets, prosecutors said.  ‘Open Source’ Code  Aleynikov, who worked as a programmer at  Goldman Sachs  from
May 2007 through June of 2009, is accused of copying hundreds of
thousands of lines of computer source code related to the firm’s
high-frequency trading business on his last day of work.
Aleynikov told federal investigators that he intended only to
copy “open source” code not owned by  Goldman Sachs , according
to the prosecutors.  The U.S., in its filing today, asked Cote to allow evidence
of other “bad acts” by Aleynikov that weren’t charged in the
indictment, including an allegation he obtained a proprietary
code without authorization from his previous employer,  IDT Corp. 
Investigators found the code on at least two files on his laptop
computer after his arrest, prosecutors said.  Aleynikov also served as the president and principal of
“Fortune-wheel.com,” a company that was sued for violating the
intellectual property rights of the “Wheel of Fortune”
television show, according to prosecutors.  Wheel of Fortune  Aleynikov entered into a stipulated permanent injunction in
December 1997 in which “he was ordered to cease infringing on
the television show ‘Wheel of Fortune’ and cease publishing”
his game, prosecutors said.  Prosecutors said that evidence was relevant to the alleged
crimes against Goldman Sachs.  “The defendant’s resume in his possession at the time of
his arrest essentially bragged about his theft of intellectual
property,” prosecutors said.  In a separate court filing today, Aleynikov asked Cote to
bar the government from referring to the code as a “trade
secret.”  To allow this would “implicitly be making the legal
conclusion that the source code constitutes a ‘trade secret’”
and let the prosecution witnesses make an “inappropriate legal
opinion” that the defense can’t challenge, said Aleynikov’s
lawyer,  Kevin Marino , in the filing.  The U.S. should be prohibited from discussing Goldman’s
trading system “generally” without making the actual systems
available, Marino said in today’s filing. Doing so would
restrict Aleynikov’s ability to cross-examine witnesses
testifying about such evidence, his lawyers said.  The case is U.S. v. Aleynikov, 10-00096, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 