-- U.S. Should Cut China Slack on Valuing Yuan: Laurence Kotlikoff
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 2 0 4 4 5 7 7 ]   S t e v e n   G i t t e l s o n   [ ]
-- 2010-11-10T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/u-s-should-cut-china-slack-on-valuing-yuan-laurence-kotlikoff.html
President  Barack Obama  heads to the
G-20 Summit in  Seoul  this week with a major goal: limiting
 China ’s and other countries’ current account surpluses.  China is being singled out for a reason. Its current
account surplus with the U.S. this year may run to $250 billion,
far more than any other country. To many, this shows China is
manipulating its currency, destroying jobs and limiting growth
in the U.S.  Nothing could be further from the truth. But the truth is
much harder to find these days than scapegoats. Fortunately,
economics can move the debate beyond finger pointing.  Countries that run current account surpluses save more than
they can fruitfully invest at home and invest the difference
abroad. Countries with current account deficits do the opposite.
They save less than their economy’s investment needs and attract
investment from abroad.  Surplus countries take some of the seed corn they’ve saved
and plant it in deficit countries. This physical movement of the
seeds, or capital, is recorded as an export of the surplus
country and an import by the deficit country.  Nations with current account surpluses are net exporters
and have trade surpluses. Those with current account deficits
are net importers and run trade deficits. Indeed, apart from the
net income foreigners earn in the U.S. and invest here, their
current account surplus equals their trade surplus, and their
trade surplus is, apart from a minus sign, our trade deficit.  Making U.S. Crazy  If China’s trade surplus is really due to it investing in
the U.S., why does this drive us nuts? Would we prefer the
Chinese invest in, say,  Iran ? The more China invests in the
U.S., the more capital U.S. workers get to use, making them more
productive and helping them earn a higher wage.  Yes, the Chinese are investing, in part, by buying
Treasuries, yet doing so leaves others to invest directly in
U.S. companies. The form of their investment doesn’t change the
bottom line: the Chinese are doing us a big favor by investing
here. The real question isn’t whether China’s investment in the
U.S. is good for the U.S.  The key question is why we aren’t saving enough to fulfill
our own investment needs. The answer is a decades-long fiscal
policy that has been taking more resources from young savers and
giving them to old spenders. This has driven our national
savings rate down the tubes.  In 1965, Americans saved 14 percent of their national
income. Last year the figure was negative 1.5 percent. What’s
worse, our domestic investment rate -- the ratio of domestic
investment to national income -- was only 1.8 percent.  Currency Fixation  The U.S. can’t grow if it doesn’t invest and without
foreign investment the country would now be disinvesting. The
Obama administration should consider this before urging the
Chinese to aim for smaller surpluses.  U.S. officials should also stop accusing the Chinese of
manipulating their currency. Yes, China is pegging its currency
to the dollar. But this isn’t evidence, per se, of currency
manipulation. As a result of the 1944  Breton Woods  agreement,
the U.S. spent decades fixing its currency to those of other
nations. No one accused it of unfair trade practices.  A fixed  exchange rate  is fully compatible with free trade
because the dollar price Chinese exporters charge for their
goods is the result of two things: the exchange rate and the
cost, in yuan, to produce the good.  Getting the Chinese to make their currency more expensive
(forcing us to pay more dollars for one yuan) won’t make Chinese
exports more expensive to American consumers since the internal
cost in China of producing these products will fall. The Chinese
restrict their supply of yuan to make the currency appreciate
relative to the  U.S. dollar . When fewer yuan circulate in China,
prices there fall.  Is Yuan Undervalued?  There is a good reason for this economic outcome. In the
end, how many Chinese toasters swap for a  Boeing 777  is not a
matter of how many pieces of paper with pictures of American
presidents are swapping for pieces of paper with pictures of
Mao. Instead it depends on the underlying real demand and supply
for toasters and 777s.  Where’s the proof the yuan is undervalued? You won’t read
studies claiming our real terms of trade with China are out of
whack or find a black market in yuan. Instead, you’ll see
studies that measure how much China would have to revalue to
dramatically lower its current account surplus. But these
studies ignore that such a revaluation would lower Chinese
domestic prices for toasters, leaving the net cost of Chinese
products to Americans unchanged.  Too many economists seem to disregard the basics of
international trade when they equate China’s trade surplus with
currency manipulation. One prominent economist recently
described China as “engaged in currency manipulation on a scale
unprecedented in world history.”  New Economic Order  Let’s get a grip. China is a poor country. The fact that it
holds some of its wealth in dollar-denominated assets is not
proof of currency manipulation. Moreover, as  China’s economy 
grows, the amount of its overseas investment will increase too.
We need to get used to the Chinese investing in our country
because that is tomorrow’s natural economic order.  As for now, forcing the Chinese to print fewer pieces of
paper with pictures of Mao and, thereby, make their currency
relatively scare isn’t going to make toasters relatively
expensive compared with Boeing jets. Nor will it change our
national savings behavior or current account deficit. These two
real problems will change only when we stop robbing young Peter
to pay old Paul.  ( Laurence Kotlikoff  is professor of economics at  Boston
University , president of Economic Security Planning, Inc. and
author of “ Jimmy Stewart  Is Dead.” The opinions expressed are
his own.) 