-- Huaneng Said to Seek $1 Billion Share Offering for Alternative Energy Unit
-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   J o h n   D u c e
-- 2010-11-10T16:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/huaneng-said-to-seek-1-billion-ipo-for-alternative-energy-unit.html
China Huaneng Group Corp. , the
nation’s largest electricity producer, applied for an initial
public offering for its alternative energy unit in Hong Kong,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  The Huaneng unit has hired  Morgan Stanley ,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  and  Macquarie Group Ltd.  to manage the $1 billion
sale, said the people, who declined to be identified because the
information is confidential.  The Hong Kong stock exchange will hold a listing hearing
this week, and the company aims to start trading next month, one
of the people said. The IPO will add to the record $45.8 billion
that 63 companies have raised through initial offerings in Hong
Kong this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nick Footitt , a Morgan Stanley spokesman in Hong Kong,
declined to comment, as did Goldman Sachs’  Edward Naylor  and
 Paul Scanlon  at Macquarie. Calls to Wang Hongmei, the director
of China Huaneng’s news office in Beijing, went unanswered.  China, the world’s largest polluter, is encouraging cleaner
energy to combat climate change and to meet demand for power in
the fastest-growing major economy. China erected more wind
turbines in 2009 than any other country and may install a record
18 gigawatts of wind-power capacity this year, Bloomberg New
Energy Finance estimates show.  Renewable Energy  China plans to require power-network companies to buy a
portion of electricity supplies from renewable energy sources,
according to an Oct. 18  statement  on the nation’s draft
industrial development for 2011-2015. Renewable energy is one of
seven “strategic” emerging industries that China aims to
promote in the next five years.  China Huaneng is the state-controlled parent of Hong Kong-
listed Huaneng Power International Inc. China Huaneng plans to
have 20,000 megawatts of wind-power capacity by 2020, or about
10 percent of its total estimated generating capacity by then,
according to a company statement on May 25.  China Datang Corp. , the nation’s second-largest power
producer, is also seeking a $1 billion IPO in Hong Kong for its
renewable energy unit, two people familiar with the plan said on
Nov. 3. A listing hearing will be held for China Datang Corp.
Renewable Power Co. this month, the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Fox Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
 John Duce  in Hong Kong at 
 jduce1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at 
 dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 