-- Lula Housing Push May Fuel First Overseas Bond Sale by Brazilian Builder
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   F e l i p e   F r i s c h
-- 2010-11-10T15:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/lula-housing-push-may-fuel-first-overseas-builder-bond-sale-brazil-credit.html
Cyrela Brazil Realty SA
Empreendimientos e Participacoes , the country’s largest
homebuilder by revenue, may become the first residential real
estate company to sell bonds overseas as government programs
fuel demand for housing.  The Sao Paulo-based company will probably pay a yield of as
much as 7 percent on 10-year dollar bonds, 130 basis points
higher than the average yield for Brazil corporate debt, said
 Eric Ollom , chief emerging-markets strategist with Jefferies &
Co., the New York securities firm. The average  yield  for
Brazilian companies fell to a record low of 5.64 percent last
week, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s CEMBI Index.  The five largest Brazilian builders are projected to have
average sales of 4.6 billion reais ($2.69 billion) in the next
12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. President
 Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  is providing subsidies to build three
million homes for low-income families by 2014. Cyrela met with
investors in Europe, Asia and the U.S. last week on the proposed
bond sale, according to a person familiar with the matter who
declined to be identified because the discussions are private.  “Companies want to take advantage of the interest rate
environment today and issue as much as they can,” said  James Harper , director of corporate research at BCP Securities in
Greenwich, Connecticut. “Brazil is the fifth-most populated
country in the world and there’s still a housing deficit.”  More Overseas Bonds  More  homebuilders  may seek to sell bonds overseas, Harper
said. Cyrela is rated  BB  by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings,
two levels below investment grade. It’s not rated by Moody’s
Investors Service.  A Cyrela official, who asked not to be identified in
accordance with company policy, declined to comment.  Brazilian real estate companies have raised 30.3 billion
reais selling shares since 2005, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, as they sought to benefit from a housing boom driven
by tax cuts and federal subsidies. Homebuilders in Latin
America’s largest economy have traditionally relied on equity
sales and the local bond market to raise money,  Marcos Schmidt ,
an analyst with Moody’s, said in a telephone interview from Sao
Paulo.  Issuing dollar bonds is cheaper than selling debt in reais.
Cyrela is paying yields of more than 11 percent for real local
bonds due in 2018. Brazilian government real bonds due in 2021
yield 950 basis points, or 9.5 percentage points, above similar
maturity U.S. Treasuries.  Lower Cost  “The cost of financing in reais is still relatively
high,”  Juan Cruz , a corporate bond analyst with Barclays Plc in
New York, said in a telephone interview. “If you look at the
international market, rates keep tightening because there’s very
big demand for fixed-income assets.”  Those rates will keep falling as U.S. policy makers seek to
stimulate the economy with bond purchases, said Cruz.  Brazil is boosting the housing industry with initiatives
including “Minha Casa, Minha Vida” (My Home, My Life) and the
Growth Acceleration Program. The My Home program has offered
cash incentives toward the purchase of a home to families
earning as much as 5,100 reais a month. Brazil had about 5.6
million families who either don’t have homes or live in
substandard dwellings as of 2008, according to the nation’s
 Cities Department .  Economic Growth  Brazil is considered a prime market for a housing expansion
since outstanding mortgage debt is the equivalent of 2.9 percent
of the economy, according to the World Bank. Latin America’s
biggest economy may grow 7.6 percent this year, according to a
central bank forecast of about 100 financial institutions.  Cyrela reported third-quarter contracted sales of 1.03
billion reais, down 37 percent from a year earlier, according to
a statement issued Oct. 29. The drop was caused by low
inventories, said Barclays equity analyst  Guilherme Vilazante  in
Sao Paulo.  The company is taking advantage of government programs by
expanding its presence among low-income residents, said Schmidt.
Of the 3,000 units started in the third-quarter, 69 percent were
eligible for the My Home program, the company said.  Yields on interest-rate futures due in January 2012 rose 4
basis points to 11.54 percent at 10:01 a.m. New York time,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Extra Yield  The extra yield investors demand to hold Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries gained one basis points to 175,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit default swaps rose three basis points
yesterday to 100, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The real fell 0.7 percent today to 1.7132 per dollar.  Even as Brazil promotes home ownership, builders rely on
buyers with cash to make purchases. Sixty percent of the
country’s house sales are made with cash, according to the World
Bank, citing 2008 data from Sao Paulo real estate company CREDI-
SP.  Brazil also has the highest real interest rate among major
emerging market countries, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Central bank chief  Henrique Meirelles  lifted the
benchmark Selic overnight rate three times this year to 10.75
percent to prevent the economy from overheating. Policy makers
will resume increases in the first quarter and lift the Selic to
11 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  Cyrela may attract investors seeking an alternative to
government debt, said Cruz of Barclays.  “This sector is very linked to the economy, it gives you
an opportunity to invest in Brazil without getting into
sovereign debt, because you might think it’s too expensive,”
said Cruz.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Veronica Navarro Espinosa  in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
 Felipe Frisch  in Sao Paulo at 
 ffrisch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  