-- Tullow, Anadarko Plan to Expand Oil Output off Ghana
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2010-11-10T12:13:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/tullow-partners-to-submit-plan-on-ghana-s-se-jubilee-correct-.html
Tullow Oil Plc  and Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. plan to expand crude and natural gas production
off Ghana following the start of oil production at the Jubilee
field in December.  The partners, including Kosmos Energy LLC and Ghana
National Petroleum Corp., are examining plans for the Owo and
Tweneboa fields development starting in 2012, London-based
Tullow said today in a statement. The companies are also
expecting to submit a plan for the southeast Jubilee area in
February after declaring its commerciality in September.  “We are looking at different development concepts at the
moment” at Tweneboa, Tullow Chief Operating Officer  Paul McDade 
said today by phone. “What is critical is further appraisal.”
The partners plan to add two more deep-water rigs operating off
Ghana, raising the number to four, he said.  The companies may double production at the Jubilee field
off Ghana by 2015,  Nana Boakye Asafu-Adjaye , chief executive
officer of Ghana National, said on Oct. 7. The African nation
will join the ranks of the world’s top 50 oil producers after
output starts at its largest oil field.  Jubilee will initially produce about 50,000 barrels of oil
day in December. Output will rise to 120,000 barrels a day over
the next three to six months, Tullow said.  Teak Prospect  “An exploration drilling campaign is scheduled to commence
in the West Cape Three Points license in December,” starting
with the Teak prospect in Ghana, Tullow said in the statement.
Including Jubilee, the company is expected to pump about 58,000
barrels of oil equivalent a day in 2010, Tullow said,
reiterating an earlier forecast.  Separately, Tullow is preparing a memorandum of
understanding with the Ugandan government to advance works in
the East African nation, the company said. The U.K. company
plans to set up a joint venture with  China National Offshore Oil
Corp.  and  Total SA  to develop the  Lake Albert basin .  Tullow paid about $1.5 billion in July to  Heritage Oil Plc 
for its interests in Block 1 and 3A in the basin. The Ugandan
government is demanding the payment of capital gains tax from
Heritage on the transaction. Tullow needs the issue to be
cleared up before it can bring in China National Offshore and
Total as partners.  The U.K. explorer drilled five successful wells in the Lake
Albert basin since July, it said today. It plans to expand
exploration in the region after completing negotiations with the
Ugandan government.  The latest of these wells, Kigogole-4, “encountered three
zones containing 15 meters (49 feet) of oil bearing reservoir
and found new pay in the basal sand section of the well,” it
said. “In addition, a material new discovery was made with the
Mpoyo-1 well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  