-- UN Prepares to Vaccinate Hundreds of Thousands Amid Polio Fight in Congo
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2010-11-10T02:59:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/un-prepares-to-vaccinate-hundreds-of-thousands-amid-polio-fight-in-congo.html
Stopping deadly polio in Congo is a
top international disease-control priority, a United Nations
agency said as it prepared to vaccinate hundreds of thousands of
people against the disease in Central Africa.  Eighty-five deaths and 184 cases of paralysis were reported
in the port city of Pointe Noire, the epicenter of the Republic
of Congo’s first polio outbreak in a decade, the World Health
Organization said in a  statement  yesterday. A multi-country
immunization program initially targeting type-1 polio, the most
virulent strain, will start Nov. 12, the UN agency said.  The outbreak is the  biggest  this year after an epidemic in
Tajikistan in Central Asia, which infected at least 458 people,
frustrating efforts to eliminate the ancient crippling disease.
World health authorities, supported by the  Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation , aim to eradicate polio by 2012. Cases in Nigeria,
one of the four countries where transmission has never been
interrupted, have declined 98 percent this year.  “Given the recent progress towards polio eradication in
Nigeria, rapidly stopping the persistent poliovirus transmission
in central Africa and stopping new polio outbreaks such as in
Congo, are top international disease control priorities,” WHO
said.  Most cases in Pointe Noire occurred in people older than 15
years, the agency said.  Poliovirus isolated from patients in Congo resembles the
strain circulating in Angola, WHO said. Twenty-five cases of
type-1 polio have been reported in Angola this year and the
Geneva-based agency warned in July of the “high risk of
international spread into neighboring countries.”  Fecal-Oral Route  Polio is shed by infected people in  feces  and can spread as
a result of poor sanitation and hygiene. The disease was
reintroduced to Angola, Lebanon, Nepal and Bangladesh during the
past decade from infected travelers from northern India, where
extreme poverty, poor sanitation and high population density
have fanned the virus’s spread for centuries.  The disease has been diagnosed in 747 people in 19
countries so far this year, according to the  Global Polio
Eradication Initiative , a group led by WHO, Rotary International,
Unicef and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
There were 1,247 cases in 22 countries a year earlier.  Before the partnership was established two decades ago,
polio paralyzed more than 350,000 children in more than 125
countries annually.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Gale  in Singapore at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  