-- Hungary Plans to Impose New Industry Levy After Crisis Tax Expires in 2012
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2010-11-10T14:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/hungary-plans-to-impose-new-industry-levy-after-crisis-tax-expires-in-2012.html
Hungary may extend special levies on
selected industries beyond the planned expiration date, fueling
investor concern that the government won’t cut spending. The
benchmark stock index dropped the most since July.  The 2011 budget draft includes revenue estimates through
2014 for the taxes, which were scheduled to end in 2012. The
government wants to draft “new rules” for further revenue
collection, MTI news agency said today, citing  Peter Szijjarto ,
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s spokesman.  “It adds to the general impression that recent developments
around the budget have seemed like smoke and mirrors,”  Neil Shearing , an analyst at Capital Economics in London, said in a
phone interview today. “It’s an attempt to raise revenue and
plug the deficit by stealth rather than by embracing what are
going to be very difficult measures.”  Orban was elected in April on a pledge to end five years of
austerity. Hungary is levying the taxes on the financial,
energy, retail and telecommunications industries and using
private pension funds to plug budget holes created by switching
to a 16 percent flat personal income tax next year.  Stocks Drop  The benchmark BUX index dropped 2.8 percent to 22,675.44 by
3:09 p.m. in Budapest, falling the most since July 19.  OTP Bank
Nyrt. , Hungary’s largest lender, dropped 4.5 percent,  Magyar
Telekom Nyrt. , the former phone monopoly controlled by Deutsche
Telekom AG, fell 2.3 percent and  Mol Nyrt. , the country’s
largest refiner, fell 3 percent.  The government targets a 2011  shortfall  of 2.94 percent of
economic output, compared with a planned 3.8 percent this year.
It estimates revenue of 348 billion forint ($1.8 billion) in
2011, 260 billion forint in 2012 and 179 billion forint each in
2013 and 2014 from the industry taxes, according to the budget
draft.  “We would like to create new rules that according to our
current estimates will yield about half of the current budget
revenue from the crisis taxes,” MTI cited Szijjarto as saying.  The government’s measures are “largely ad hoc,” sufficient
to meet short-term budget targets while failing to address the
“structural deficit” that may lead to the shortfall widening to
6 percent of GDP by 2014, Standard & Poor’s said on Nov. 3. S&P
then affirmed the country’s debt rating at BBB-, one step above
junk, with a negative outlook.  Moody’s Decision  Moody’s will make a decision this month on whether to cut
Hungary’s credit rating from Baa1, the third-lowest investment
grade, Frankfurt-based Moody’s analyst  Dietmar Hornung  said on
Oct. 25.  The industry tax “must be” for a “maximum” of three years
and be accompanied by structural changes “starting immediately”
to reduce the budget’s need for the extra tax revenue, the
 American Chamber of Commerce , which represents mostly U.S.-based
companies in Hungary, said in a Nov. 8 statement.  The government needs to create a predictable economic
environment to ensure corporate investment and foster growth,
 Gyorgy Kopits , chairman of the Fiscal Council, Hungary’s
independent budget watchdog, told lawmakers today according to
the e-mailed speech.  “Anchoring expectations is one of the most important tools
in improving the efficiency of economic policy,” he said. “The
absence of this makes long-term planning so difficult, that it
becomes a barrier to rational decision making, savings,
investments and growth in general.”  Magyar Telekom Nyrt. didn’t immediately respond to
Bloomberg phone calls seeking comment. Mol Nyrt. and the local
unit of Tesco Plc declined to comment.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  