-- Hungary Debt Agency Expects Tax Cuts, Foreigners to Prop Up Debt Demand
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2010-11-10T11:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/hungary-debt-agency-expects-tax-cuts-foreigners-to-prop-up-debt-demand.html
Hungary expects foreign investors
and local households to buy government debt, replacing private
pension funds whose assets are being returned to the state, said
the deputy chief executive of the debt management agency.  Hungary wants private pension fund policy holders to return
their savings, partly in government bonds, while it also
suspended the transfer of employee contributions to the funds
through the end of next year to boost budget revenue. That means
the government will need to find new buyers for its debt,
central bank President  Andras Simor  said on Oct. 25.  The government “has no concerns regarding debt financing in
2011 and beyond,” the debt agency’s  Laszlo Andras Borbely  said
in an interview in Budapest yesterday. Demand from foreign
investors and household savings, boosted by a cut in the
personal income tax, will replace pension fund buying, estimated
between 160 billion forint ($805 million) and 180 billion forint
a year, he said.  “Foreign demand is stable again and the rise in foreign
investors’ bond holdings shows that they have limited interest
in analysts’ concerns regarding the 2012 deficit as they
primarily purchase long-maturity bonds,” Borbely said in
Budapest yesterday.  Foreign investors’ holding of forint-denominated debt has
increased by 306 billion forint this year. Demand at the last
auction of three-month Treasury bills on Nov. 9 outstripped the
state’s offer by more than three times and the most recent bond
auction on Nov. 4 attracted bids twice the tendered amount.  Bonds, CDS, Forint  The yield on the benchmark five-year bond fell to 6.851
percent from 7.1 percent two weeks ago. The cost of protecting
the country’s bonds against non-payment with credit-default
swaps advanced to 293 basis points yesterday from 282 basis
points on Oct. 26.  The forint weakened 0.4 percent against the euro in the
past week, the worst performer among 23 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The government levied special taxes on the financial,
energy, telecommunications and retail industries, retained
pension payments and is seeking to convince pension fund members
to transfer their savings to the state as it vies to patch up
budget holes. The Cabinet wants to cut next year’s  budget
deficit  to 2.94 percent of economic output from an estimated 3.8
percent this year. The European Union’s limit is 3 percent.  Hungary, the EU’s most indebted eastern nation, was forced
to suspend bond auctions in 2008 as investors dumped riskier
emerging-market assets during the global financial crisis. The
country’s debt level will decline in 2011 from an estimated 79
percent of gross domestic product, partly due to the return of
pension savings, which include local bonds, Borbely said.  Private Pension Funds  The return of about 450 billion forint of government bonds
to the state in 2011 would lower the debt level by about 1.5
percentage points, Borbely said.  The government expects at least 40 percent of the 2.8
trillion forint held in private pension funds to return to the
state next year,  Gyorgy Naszvadi , a state secretary in the
Economy Ministry, said yesterday.  The debt management agency expects the 2011 financing plan,
which calculates with new debt of about 850 billion forint, to
remain “essentially unchanged,” Borbely said.  Hungary is “very likely” to sell foreign-currency debt in
the first quarter of 2011 as “the market tends to be good in the
first quarter,” Borbely said. The country seeks to raise 4
billion euros in foreign debt next year to refinance maturing
foreign debt, Borbely said.  Hungary isn’t planning to spend the unspent funds of 20
billion-euro ($27.6 billion) bailout from the International
Monetary Fund, the EU and the World Bank that expired last
month, Borbely said. The 3 billion euros the government drew
from the credit line and is held by the central bank, helps
“boost confidence and we need to show this,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 Ebalazs1@bloomberg.net .
 Andras  Gergely at in Budapest or
 agergely@bloomberg.net  