-- UniCredit Net Falls 15% on Trading, Missing Estimates
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2010-11-10T16:49:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/unicredit-posts-460-million-third-quarter-net-income-missing-estimates.html
UniCredit SpA , Italy’s biggest bank,
said third-quarter profit declined 15 percent, missing analysts’
estimates, after lower trading income outweighed a drop in bad-
loan provisions.  Net income  fell to 334 million euros ($460 million) from
394 million euros a year earlier, the Milan-based lender said in
a statement today. That missed the 388 million-euro  average
estimate  of 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “UniCredit reported slightly disappointing numbers”  Aldo Comi  and  Ronny Rehn , London-based analysts at Keefe, Bruyette
and Woods Ltd. who rate the stock “market perform,” wrote in a
note to investors. “Revenue was weaker in size and quality.”  Chief Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni , who replaced
 Alessandro Profumo  in the top job in September, is reviewing the
bank’s strategy in some markets as he seeks to improve
profitability after the financial crisis. He aims to outline a
new business plan to the board by the end of the year.  UniCredit fell 4.6 percent, the most since June 29, to 1.74
euros in Milan trading, giving the company a market value of
33.5 billion euros. The bank has declined 12 percent in the past
six months, while the  Bloomberg Banks and Financial Services
Index  has fallen 1 percent.  Net trading income at UniCredit slid to 381 million euros
in the quarter from 715 million euros a year earlier, while net
interest income was unchanged at 4 billion euros.  Bad Loans  Loan-loss provisions dropped to 1.6 billion euros from
about 2.2 billion euros in the year-earlier period. Costs, which
include a 40 million-euro severance payment to Profumo, rose 3
percent to 3.9 billion euros.  The lender, which passed the European stress tests in July,
said that its core Tier 1 ratio, a measure of financial
strength, advanced to 8.6 percent at the end of Sept. 30 from
8.4 percent at the end of June.  “Under the current version of Basel 3 rules the bank is
already compliant with 2013 capital requirements,” UniCredit
said today in a slide presentation.  HVB Group, UniCredit’s German banking unit, reported today
that nine-month profit surged to 1.12 billion euros from 334
million euros a year ago, helped by lower loan-loss provisions
and as year-earlier restructuring costs and other one-time
charges weren’t repeated.  German Plans  UniCredit , which has to appoint a new leader for its
business in central and eastern Europe after Ghizzoni’s
promotion, expects a “strong contribution” from the CEE
division because of “faster economic growth in the area,”
General Manager  Roberto Nicastro  said yesterday.  “We want to refocus our presence in central and eastern
Europe, not reduce it,” Ghizzoni said on a conference call.
“We want to stay in Germany, and rule out disinvestments in the
country. It’s illogical to leave one of the most important
economies in Europe.”  UniCredit, the biggest lender in emerging Europe, said
profit in the region more than tripled in the quarter, driven by
a decline in bad-debt charges in Turkey, Russia and Kazakhstan.  The bank’s pretax profit in the quarter rose to 366 million
euros from 105 million euros a year earlier as loan-loss
provisions fell to 319 million euros.  Cost Savings  UniCredit  and rivals including Erste Group Bank AG,
Raiffeisen Bank International AG and OTP Bank Nyrt have been
hurt by growing bad debt in eastern Europe since 2009 as the
economies of most of the former Communist bloc contracted.  Bank Austria manages UniCredit’s emerging European assets
except for Poland’s Bank Pekao SA.  UniCredit expects cost savings of 190 million euros by 2013
from a reorganization plan involving its Italian business,
Ghizzoni said. The bank agreed with unions to 3,000 job cuts in
the next three years as part of the plan, he said.  The lender is merging its seven Italian units into one
holding to cut costs and increase revenue.  UniCredit is also reviewing options for its Pioneer Global
Asset Management unit, Ghizzoni said.  “The process is still ongoing, and it’s difficult to say
when it will be finalized,” he said, adding that the plan is
the same that was approved by Profumo.  “We received several approaches for a partnership,”
Ghizzoni said. Amundi, the asset-management venture that  Credit
Agricole SA  started in January with  Societe Generale SA , may
look at Pioneer, Amundi CEO  Yves Perrier  said in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  