-- Turmeric Tops Stocks With 64% Gain as Inflation in India Flares
-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-11-10T18:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/turmeric-tops-stocks-with-64-gain-as-india-seethes-with-inflation-too-hot.html
In his office above a room stacked
with jute sacks of turmeric, many streaked yellow by the powder,
Deepak Shah is extolling the virtues of the spice.  “It’s very good for health, it’s used in cooking, in
cosmetics and it’s medicinal,” said Shah, owner of P. Amratlal
& Sons, a trader at Mumbai’s wholesale Vashi market.  Falling stockpiles and speculation have also pushed up the
price of the curry ingredient 64 percent this year on the
 National Commodity & Derivatives Exchange , three times the gain
of India’s benchmark  stock index , boosting food costs in a
country where 7 out of 10 people live on less than $2 a day.  Reserve Bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao raised interest
rates six times this year and said on Nov. 3 inflation is still
above the bank’s comfort zone. One reason is the spices Indians
use every day. Pepper futures have risen 51 percent on the
 National Commodity & Derivatives Exchange  this year, compared
with a 20 percent jump in the Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive
Index, the best performer among the world’s 10 biggest equity
benchmarks.  “Spices, especially cardamom, pepper and turmeric, are
contributing to overall inflation,” said  Harish Galipelli , vice
president at Kochi-based JRG Wealth Management Ltd., which
advises traders. “The government is definitely under pressure
to tackle food inflation.”  India controls 42 percent of the $2.8 billion world spice
trade, and consumes 90 percent of what it grows. The price gains
add to rising global food costs as increasing wealth and growing
populations in countries including China and India boosted
demand and floods in Canada, Pakistan and China and droughts in
Europe killed crops. The United Nations Food and Agriculture
World  Food Price Index  rose to a two-year high in October.  Vital Spices  Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said on Oct. 26 that
higher food costs were the biggest contributors to inflation.
India’s benchmark wholesale-price index rose 8.6 percent in
September from a year earlier after an 8.5 percent gain in
August, according to the commerce ministry. The central bank
raised benchmark interest rates to 6.25 percent on Nov. 2.  “Spices are vital for Indian cooking, but now people’s
purchasing power is down so people aren’t going out to eat,”
said Mahesh Parekh, owner of Mumbai-based spice retailer
Shamaldas Jivandas & Co. “The family that used to make four
dishes for a meal, now makes two.”  Record prices of wheat, corn, rice, oats, soybeans, animal
feed and cooking oil fueled civil unrest across the globe in
2008, and prompted countries including India to restrict trade
to conserve supplies.  “My customers get angry at me, as if I have control over
the prices,” said Namdev Jagannath, owner of Namdev Jagannath
Sopariwala, a spice retailer started half a century ago by his
father in Mumbai. “We have to pass on the costs.”  Price Speculation  Turmeric’s jump to a record 15,905 rupees per 100 kilograms
on May 6 has attracted speculators. Average daily turnover by
value of spices futures on the  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .-backed
 National Commodity & Derivatives Exchange , India’s biggest
bourse for agricultural commodities, doubled in September to
6.64 billion rupees, from 3.31 billion rupees a year earlier,
said Tanushree Mazumdar, senior economist at the exchange.
Pepper on the exchange touched a record 22,249 rupees per 100
kilograms on Nov. 9 and was at 21,551 rupees yesterday. Turmeric
was at 12,160 rupees.  “There’s a lot of speculation,” said Prakash Namboodiri,
general manager,  AB Mauri India Pvt. , a unit of  Associated
British Foods Plc . “A person who has got a lot of money can
sway the markets and if they’re smart, they can make a lot of
money trading in spices.”  Spice Sacks  Much of India’s physical spice trade takes place in
wholesale markets like Vashi, 22 miles (35 kilometers) north-
east of Mumbai’s business district. Aisles of shops display
cardamom pods, cinnamon bark, tamarind and open sacks of deep-
red chilies under the glare of naked electric bulbs. Telephones
ring endlessly and electric fans waft the warm air.  Inventories of turmeric in India, which produces as much as
94 percent of world supply, may fall this year to a record low
as production declines for the fourth straight year, according
to Mumbai-based broker  Kotak Commodity Services Ltd.  Prices are
heading for their fourth straight annual advance. Pepper has
gained for three of the past four years.  Demand for turmeric rose an average 2 percent a year in the
past seven years, Kotak said. Pepper stockpiles in India are
expected to slump 62 percent in 2009-2010 from a year earlier to
an all-time low, it said.  While India consumes most of its spices, exports are rising.
Shipments from April to August jumped 25 percent in value to
$565 million and 13 percent by volume, according to the Spices
Board. Overseas sales may reach $10 billion by 2025, it predicts.  “It’s basically the short supply and increased demand,”
said V.J. Kurian, chairman of  Spices Board India .  Fast Food  Changing food habits and demand for ready-to-eat and fast-
food in Europe and the U.S. is helping drive prices, said Shikha
Mittal, analyst at Hyderabad-based brokerage  Karvy Comtrade Ltd.   “In 40 years we have basically tripled the use of spices
in the U.S. and those kinds of trends are also taking place in
other countries around the world, particularly in Europe,” said
Al Goetze, chief spice buyer with Sparks, Maryland-based
 McCormick & Co.  the world’s largest processor of spices.
“Consumers today are interested in more flavorful foods.”  Pepper rallied as production falls in Vietnam, said  Nalini Rao , a research analyst at  Angel Commodities Pvt.  in Mumbai.
Exports from Vietnam, the world’s biggest pepper producer, will
drop 26 percent this year from a record, the Vietnam Pepper
Association forecast in January.  Hoarding Pepper  Concern over global crop supplies spurred some Indian
traders to hoard pepper, said  Galipelli  at JRG Wealth Management.  “We are experiencing a lot of volatility in the markets,”
said Goetze. “Black pepper is really getting revved up because
the supply is barely surpassing demand.”  Goetze said the jump in turmeric prices may encourage more
farmers to plant the crop next year. Pepper is harder to balance
with increased production because new plants take 3 or 4 years
to produce a crop, he said.  For Shah, the turmeric trader, the long-term equation is
based on demand. India’s population may rise to 1.47 billion by
2030, from 1.16 billion in 2008, New York-based management
consultant McKinsey & Co. said in an April  report .  “As the population grows year-on-year, demand goes up,”
Shah said. “Inflation is up because the prices of essentials
like grains and spices are up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Madelene Pearson  in Mumbai on 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net :
Ruchika Tulshyan in Mumbai 
 rtulshyan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@Bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  