-- Veolia Earnings Rise 2.5% as Waste Treatment Improves, Targets Confirmed
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-11-10T07:48:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/veolia-earnings-rise-2-5-as-waste-treatment-improves-targets-confirmed.html
Veolia Environnement SA , the world’s
biggest water utility, increased nine-month earnings by 2.5
percent as sales from waste treatment gained.  Operating income  rose to 1.57 billion euros ($2.16 billion)
from 1.53 billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company
said today in a statement. Sales rose 0.8 percent to 25.5
billion euros including a 5.3 percent rise in the latest
quarter.  Veolia confirmed its financial targets and reiterated plans
to cut costs by 250 million euros this year and sell 3 billion
euros in assets from 2009 through 2011.  Veolia and smaller competitor Suez Environnement were among
waste and water companies to suffer a slump in earnings in 2009
as the recession forced industrial clients to idle factories,
reducing demand. The utility is expecting a pick-up in the
volume of industrial waste treatment seen in the first six
months to continue through the end of the year, Denis Gasquet,
head of environmental services, said Oct. 1.  Veolia today said sales of the environmental services
division increased 6.3 percent and accelerated in the third
quarter due mostly to higher raw materials prices and “more
favorable evolution in volumes.” The water division sales also
grew 1.5 percent in the latest quarter after drops in the
previous two three-month periods.  Suez Environnement SA  last month said nine-month profit
rose 13 percent as it sorted more waste and prices for recycled
materials gained after a revival in economic growth. Next year
will be a “year of growth,” Suez Chief Financial Officer  Jean- Marc Boursier  said.  Targets Confirmed  Veolia is expected to have a “stabilization of waste
volumes” in the third and fourth quarters while the first three
months of next year should be the first period of “solid volume
growth,” Citigroup analyst Sofia Savvantidou wrote in a Nov. 4
note ahead of the earnings.  Veolia confirmed targets for this year that were to
generate positive free cash flow after dividends and growth in
recurring operating income, which in March was forecast to rise
4 percent to 8 percent. Asset sales totaled 847 million euros in
the first nine months, the company said.  Net  debt  was 15.8 billion euros compared with 16 billion
euros at the end of June.  Veolia has announced an agreement with French state-owned
bank Caisse des Depots et Consignations to merge their transport
units to create the world’s biggest private operator, along with
a plan to list the company called Veolia Transdev.  Veolia spent about 4 billion euros in 2007 and 2008 on
 acquisitions  including German trash-handler Sulo Group and TMT,
the waste-management unit of Italy’s Termomeccanica Ecologia.
The utility last year wrote down the value of the businesses.  Veolia supplies water to about 110 million people worldwide
and collects and manages trash for about 50 million. It provides
public transportation in 28 countries and supplies energy in
Europe and the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 