-- Wall Street Collects $4 Billion From Taxpayers as Swaps Backfire
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2010-11-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/wall-street-collects-4-billion-from-taxpayers-as-swaps-backfire.html
The subprime mortgage crisis isn’t
the only calamity Wall Street created that’s upending the
finances of U.S. states and cities.  For more than a decade, banks and insurance companies
convinced governments and nonprofits that financial engineering
would lower  interest rates  on bonds sold for public projects
such as roads, bridges and schools. That failed promise has cost
more than $4 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
as hundreds of borrowers from the  Bay Area Toll Authority  in
Oakland, California, to Cornell University in Ithaca, New York,
quietly paid Wall Street to end agreements since 2008.  California’s water resources department this year spent
$305 million unwinding interest-rate bets that backfired,
handing over the money to banks led by New York-based  Morgan
Stanley .  North Carolina  paid $59.8 million in August, enough to
cover the annual salaries of about 1,400 full-time state
employees.  Reading, Pennsylvania , which  sought protection  in the
state’s fiscally distressed communities program, got caught on
the wrong end of the deals, costing it $21 million, equal to
more than a year’s worth of real-estate taxes.  “It was brilliant, and it all blew up on me,” said  Brian Mayhew , chief financial officer of the Bay Area Toll Authority,
the state agency that gave  Ambac Financial Group Inc ., the New
York-based bond insurer that filed for bankruptcy this week,
$105 million to end $1.1 billion of interest-rate agreements.
The payments equal more than two months of revenue on seven
bridges the authority oversees around San Francisco.  Budget Deficits  The termination payments to Wall Street firms come at the
worst possible time. The longest recession since the Great
Depression left states facing budget gaps of $72 billion next
fiscal year, according to the  National Conference of State
Legislatures . U.S. cities saw their general fund revenue fall
the most since at least 1986 in the budget year that ended June
30, according to the  National League of Cities .  Wall Street banks and insurers peddled financial
derivatives known as interest-rate swaps to governments and
nonprofits that bet they could lower the cost of borrowing.
There were as much as $500 billion of the deals done in the $2.8
trillion municipal bond market before the credit crisis,
according to a  report  by  Randall Dodd , a senior researcher on
the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, published by the
International Monetary Fund in June.  $4 Billion  Borrowers from New York to California are now paying to get
out of agreements. Altogether, they have made more than $4
billion of termination payments to firms including New York-
based  Citigroup  Inc., New York-based  JPMorgan Chase  & Co. and
Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank of America  Corp. since the
beginning of 2008, according to a review of hundreds of bond
documents and credit-rating reports by Bloomberg News.  In contrast to the subprime crisis, few taxpayers know
anything about the cost of untangling municipal swaps. The only
disclosure of payments to Wall Street often is buried in
documents borrowers have to give investors when they sell bonds.  In many cases, firms getting payments aren’t explicitly
identified and government officials often don’t call attention
to payments made to cancel contracts. Many of the telephone
calls and e-mails from Bloomberg News to dozens of government
and nonprofit officials over the last eight months seeking
comment on derivative transactions went unanswered.  ‘No Reason’  “Money that should be invested in students, classrooms and
fixing infrastructure in Pennsylvania is instead lining the
pockets of Wall Street,”  Jack Wagner , the state’s auditor
general,  said in a statement in April  after calling on lawmakers
to ban swaps. “State and local governments must stop gambling
with public money,” he said.  In an interest-rate swap, two parties exchange payments on
an agreed-upon amount of principal. Most of the swaps Wall
Street sold in the municipal market required borrowers to issue
long-term securities with interest rates that changed every week
or month. The borrowers would then exchange payments, leaving
them paying a fixed-rate to a bank or insurance company and
receiving a variable rate in return. Sometimes borrowers got
lump sums for entering agreements.  The swaps were popular because governments and nonprofits
could pay a rate that was  lower  than what they would otherwise
face had they sold conventional fixed-rate securities. The
agreements backfired after the credit crisis broke out. While
borrowers had to continue selling adjustable-rate securities
under the deals, the payments made by Wall Street plunged and no
longer were enough to cover the municipalities’ own debt costs.  1990s Design  Banks and insurance companies such as New York-based
 American International Group  Inc. started designing municipal
swaps in the 1990s as derivatives trading on Wall Street soared.
Derivatives are agreements whose value is derived from stocks,
bonds, loans, currencies and commodities, or linked to specific
events such as changes in interest rates or the weather. They
were blamed in part for causing the global financial panic.  The financial manipulation was a boon for Wall Street.
While banks got paid to underwrite municipal bonds for public
projects, they were able to generate additional fees if the
borrower used a swap with the transactions. Because the
contracts were unregulated and privately negotiated, the profits
that Wall Street booked were never disclosed.  “The basic idea from the bank’s perspective is just to do
a swap because that’s where the money is,” said  Andrew Kalotay ,
head of the debt-management advisory firm Andrew Kalotay
Associates Inc. in New York. “Look at all the fees they get.”  Jefferson County  In Alabama, $5.8 billion of swaps  Jefferson County  used in
a sewer-system financing in 2002 and 2003 produced $120.2
million in fees for banks, as much as $100 million more than it
should have based on prevailing rates, according to James White,
an adviser hired by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
The derivatives, which pushed the home of the city of Birmingham
to the brink of bankruptcy, led to a $722 million settlement
with JPMorgan in November 2009 after an SEC probe and the
conviction of a county commissioner who steered business to
bankers in exchange for bribes.  The New Jersey agency that makes college-student loans and
grants paid tens of millions of dollars when it canceled
derivative agreements with banks led by  UBS AG  and Citigroup in
January.  The deals by the  Higher Education Student Assistance
Authority  date back to April 2001, when the agency was getting
ready to sell $190 million of fixed-rate bonds.  Paul Wozniak , a
UBS investment banker, told a meeting of the authority’s board
in Trenton it could borrow more cheaply by using swaps rather
than selling conventional tax-exempt bonds, according to minutes
and a copy of his presentation obtained by Bloomberg News after
a request to state officials.  Cost Covered  All the authority had to do to get the deal from UBS was to
sell auction-rate securities, he said. The Zurich-based bank
would help cover the cost of that adjustable-rate debt in
exchange for annual fixed-rate payments from the authority, he
said. The fixed rate was 4.65 percent, about a half percentage
point less than the 5.18 percent the state would pay if it sold
conventional bonds, he said.  The disadvantages were few, Wozniak told board members. The
swap was a contract, so it would have to be footnoted in the
authority’s financial statements, he said. The state would have
to count on getting periodic payments from UBS over the deal’s
life, he said.  “They found the swap agreements extremely complicated,”
New Jersey’s former Inspector General  Mary Jane Cooper  said in a
 report  in May after auditing the authority and interviewing
board members who listened to Wozniak’s pitch.  No Help  “The explanations were not particularly helpful,” she
said. In the end, they relied on recommendations made to them by
management, according to the report.  The 18-member board, which consisted of college
administrators and New Jersey government officials and students,
approved about $1 billion of the deals over the next five years.
The authority started exiting the contracts in January, making
$49 million in termination payments, including $23 million to
UBS and $17 million to Citigroup.  “Government operates with a very short-term mentality,”
said  Matt Fabian , a senior analyst at Municipal Market Advisors
in Westport, Connecticut. “There isn’t much upside to look long
term. They are looking for near-term savings on things.”  AnnMarie Bouse, a spokeswoman for the authority, referred
to Cooper’s report, which included written responses from
management.  Board-Member Action  “A board member’s decision to rely on the recommendation
of management where the underlying transaction remains unclear
is a reflection on that particular board member, not necessarily
an authority deficiency,” Michael Angulo, the authority’s
executive director,  wrote  in the report.  Wozniak, who is chairman of Las Vegas-based education
lender College Loan Corp. and left UBS in 2008, said he doesn’t
recall the meeting. “You wouldn’t have done it if you wouldn’t
have thought it would save you money,” he said in a telephone
interview.  Douglas Morris , a UBS spokesman in New York, wouldn’t
comment, nor would  Alexander Samuelson , a Citigroup spokesman.  New York Governor  George Pataki  was seeking ways to close
an $11 billion budget deficit in 2003 when he embraced Wall
Street’s alchemy. The former governor included a provision in
his spending plan that authorized all state agencies to use
swaps, resulting in a total of $5.9 billion of the  deals  with
firms such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , based in New York.  Evaporated Savings  The state sold floating-rate securities to refinance
existing fixed-rate bonds and then locked in lower fixed rates
on the new debt using swaps. Before the credit crisis, officials
said they had generated $203 million of savings. Since the
crisis, unwinding the swap contracts has cost $247 million,
according to the state budget office.  Pataki didn’t return telephone calls and e-mails to his
office at the New York-based law firm Chadbourne & Parke LLP
seeking comment. Erik Kriss, a spokesman for the state’s budget
department, said the “swap portfolio will continue to show
modest savings,” in part because state officials are
refinancing existing debt with lower fixed rates.  New York was among about 40 states that passed laws, often
at Wall Street’s urging, permitting municipal derivatives before
the credit crisis, according to Dodd’s research for the IMF.
 Tennessee  passed rules in 2001 that required borrowers to attend
a swap school.  Morgan Keegan Classes  Memphis-based Morgan Keegan Inc., a division of Birmingham,
Alabama-based  Regions Financial Corp. , was selected to teach the
classes. The firm sold many of the $12.7 billion of the deals
subsequently done by more than 40 counties, municipalities,
districts and authorities, according to  Justin Wilson , the state
comptroller.  “There’s just no reason these entities should be playing
with this stuff,” said  Christopher Whalen , managing director at
the Torrance, California-based research firm Institutional Risk
Analytics. “They don’t have the capacity to evaluate these
instruments. They are totally lost.”  Just as banks  loosened mortgage underwriting standards  as
part of the effort to create more subprime-linked securities,
Wall Street targeted some of the riskiest credits in the
municipal market with its swaps pitch. Nonprofit and government-
run health-care providers, which pay  higher tax-exempt interest
rates  because they have among the lowest bond ratings, accounted
for 40 percent of the derivative deals, Standard & Poor’s found
in a study in 2007.  Lucrative Business  The business was so lucrative that banks and insurers were
able to write teaser checks to lure borrowers into swaps. The
arrangements were akin to Goldman Sachs giving Greece $1 billion
in off-balance-sheet funding in 2002 through a currency swap,
helping the nation mask budget gaps to meet a European Union
debt target.  “Tinkering with debt was something that you could hide
behind,” said  Jeffrey Waltman , a city councilor in Reading. The
city got upfront payments totaling $7.6 million from Wachovia
Corp. in 2005 and 2006 for contracts it later terminated.  “Maybe it didn’t mean so much of a tax increase, or maybe
it didn’t mean laying off people,” said Waltman. “It was what
appeared at the moment to be a painless effort.”  Ferris Morrison, a spokeswoman with San Francisco-based
 Wells Fargo & Co ., which acquired Wachovia in December 2008,
didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Other Victims  Reading taxpayers weren’t Pennsylvania’s only swap victims.
The school district in  Butler , 32 miles (51 kilometers) north of
Pittsburgh, got a $730,000 check in 2003 from JPMorgan. It cost
officials $5.3 million two years ago to exit the contract,
enough to hire 100 new teachers for a school year. In a lawsuit
it filed against its adviser and JPMorgan, the district said the
bank booked an $890,000 fee from the transaction, which it
called excessive.  A New York court last year dismissed the complaint and
others alleging securities fraud, ruling that interest-rate
swaps were privately negotiated contracts and not securities.  Borrowers in the municipal market primarily sold two types
of adjustable-rate debt to do swaps. Auction-rate securities
were bonds maturing typically in about 40 years that paid
investors a rate that changed every 7, 28 or 35 days at bidding
run by banks. Variable-rate demand bonds were similar except
they were also often secured by an agreement from a bank to buy
the debt if no investors did when rates were periodically reset.  Market Collapse  The $330 billion auction-rate securities market, which
dates back to the 1980s, collapsed in February 2008. Investors
stopped buying the bonds because much of the debt was backed by
bond insurers that were about to lose their AAA ratings after
expanding into mortgage-related derivatives. When banks that ran
the bidding started permitting auctions to fail, rates paid by
borrowers to bondholders were reset in some cases as high as 20
percent.  While auction rates soared, the periodic payments that
banks made to borrowers as part of the swaps plunged because
they were linked to benchmarks such as U.S. Federal Reserve
 lending rates , which were slashed to almost zero percent to
combat the financial panic.  “That’s the black swan,” said  Robert Fuller , a municipal
financial adviser at Capital Markets Management LLC in Hopewell,
New Jersey. “The things you can’t imagine kill you.”  Hospital Debt  The University of California had to unwind derivatives it
used with debt sold for its medical centers, which form the
third-biggest U.S. public hospital system. In April 2008, it
sold $322 million of fixed-rate bonds to refinance auction-rate
securities and pay $6.8 million to JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs and
Merrill Lynch & Co., later acquired by Bank of America, to
terminate swaps, according to bond documents. The exit fee was
enough to cover the annual tuition of 200 students in its
public-health program.  The pace of swap cancellations in the municipal market
accelerated after  Lehman Brothers Holdings  Inc. filed for
bankruptcy in September 2008. The filing triggered the
termination of all the New York-based bank’s derivative
contracts, including hundreds with tax-exempt borrowers.  While the market for variable-rate demand bonds didn’t
collapse, the cost of the debt increased as banks lifted the
fees they charge to serve as buyers of last resort. California’s
State Department of Water Resources refinanced almost $4 billion
of the securities this year and terminated swaps as its so-
called liquidity agreements with banks expired. The agency began
borrowing the money in 2002 to buy electricity to help alleviate
the state’s energy shortage.  ‘Something More Stable’  “They wanted to get out of this variable rate,” said  Joe DeAnda , a spokesman for state Treasurer  Bill Lockyer , whose
office oversaw the water resource department’s refinancing.
“They wanted to move into something more stable.”  Municipal borrowers have refinanced or retired about $135
billion of $525 billion of variable-rate demand bonds since
2008, according to a report in September from  Christopher Mauro ,
head of municipal-market strategy at RBC Capital Markets in New
York. There is another $101 billion of the securities backed by
banks under contracts that expire next year, he said.  In addition to getting termination payments, Wall Street is
finding a way to profit from the meltdown by underwriting bonds
that borrowers sell as they unravel their swaps. Morgan Stanley,
JPMorgan and Bank of America were among firms that got
termination money from California’s water resources department
this year at the same time they were paid to help the agency
sell bonds, according to offering documents.  Halt to Sales  Mary Claire Delaney , a Morgan Stanley spokeswoman, declined
to comment, as did Danielle Robinson from Bank of America and
JPMorgan’s  Justin Perras . JPMorgan in September 2008 said it
would stop selling interest-rate swaps to government borrowers.  Even Ivy League universities were caught in the market’s
demise. Harvard University paid $497.6 million in December 2008
to end $1.1 billion of interest-rate swaps with JPMorgan and
Goldman Sachs, and separately agreed to end another $764 million
of the agreements at a cost of $425 million. JPMorgan was the
lead banker when the university in Cambridge, Massachusetts,
sold bonds whose proceeds were used to make the termination
payments.  Future Flexibility  Cornell, one of the eight private colleges and universities
in the Ivy League, paid $22.8 million in May to get out of deals
with Wall Street firms. The exit fee would cover the annual
tuition for 500 students at the university. Unwinding the
derivatives gave the university “greater future flexibility”
because it was able to replace 50 percent of its variable-rate
debt with fixed rates,  Joanne DeStefano , chief financial
officer, said in an e-mail.  Many borrowers are unwinding swaps because they want to
refinance variable-rate debt with municipal fixed rates at
 historic lows . The savings can offset the cost of termination
fees, said  Peter Shapiro , managing director of Swap Financial
Group in South Orange, New Jersey. The financial engineering
also generated savings before the crisis, he said.  Shapiro, 58, the former head of Essex County, New Jersey,
who ran for governor as the Democratic nominee in 1985, formed
his municipal-swap company in 1997 and may be the biggest
industry adviser, with more than 100 government and nonprofit
clients, according to his  website . There are no formal rankings
because the business is all privately negotiated.  Orderly Market  “The swap relied upon an orderly functioning variable-rate
market,” said Shapiro, who has advised borrowers such as the
 California Housing Finance Agency , which has more than $4
billion of the derivatives. “There hasn’t been an orderly
functioning variable-rate market for two-and-a-half years.”  Some public officials are trying to prevent a repeat of the
swaps meltdown. Tennessee’s comptroller last year tried to ban
municipal derivatives outright before pushing through rules that
place limits on who can use them. In Pennsylvania, Wagner, the
state’s auditor general, last year asked lawmakers to adopt
rules to outlaw financial fiddling after investigating school-
district deals.  The board of the  Delaware River Port Authority  voted to ban
using swaps last December after losing more than $60 million on
the contracts. Pennsylvania’s auditor general is on the board of
the authority, which operates four toll bridges and a commuter
rail line between Philadelphia and southern New Jersey.  Houston, which still has two swaps linked to about $900
million of its bonds, says it’s done with the derivatives after
the promised savings disappeared.  “If you have to create a flow chart to explain how a
transaction works,”  Annise Parker , the Texas city’s mayor, said
in a September interview at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters,
“that’s a problem even for a city the size of Houston.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  