-- Walter Investment May Sell Bonds Backed by Residential Construction Debt
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-11-10T21:55:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/walter-investment-may-sell-bonds-backed-by-residential-construction-debt.html
Walter Investment Management Corp. 
may issue $220.5 million of securities backed mainly by
contracts used to finance residential construction, according to
a person familiar with the matter and a term sheet for the
transaction.  The sale of the securities, backed by a $324.2 million pool
of assets that also includes $61.2 million of residential
mortgages, is being managed by Bank of America Corp., according
to the person, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t public, and to the document, which was provided to
Bloomberg by an investor.  Whitney Finch , a spokesman for Walter
Investment, said the company couldn’t comment on the
securitization.  Contracts acquired by Walter Investment are typically tied
to “stick-built” structures, constructed traditionally, in the
southeastern U.S. by Jim Walter Homes and other builders
affiliated with it that extend the credit initially, said
Jeanetta M. Brown, its chief compliance officer.  “It’s very similar to a traditional mortgage loan, but
it’s different in construct,” she said today in a telephone
interview. “In the event you need to foreclosure, it works
exactly like a mortgage.”  The contracts are similar to lay-away plans used by stores.
They differ from traditional mortgages in that no money is paid
out by the creditor in the transactions, Brown said. They also
differ from so-called chattel paper in that they involve liens
on the underlying land, which is usually owned by consumers
before construction begins, she said.  Created Through Merger  Walter Investment, a real estate investment trust based in
Tampa, Florida, was created last year through a merger of the
company, which owns a mortgage lender, and Hanover Capital
Mortgage Holdings Inc.  Reuters reported the debt sale earlier today.  The most-senior $56.7 million portion of the securities
being marketed, which may receive a AAA rating from Standard &
Poor’s, may yield 200 basis points to 225 basis points more than
benchmark interest rate swaps, the person said. A $79.4 million
slice, which may be rated A, may sell at a spread of 375 basis
points to 400 basis points, the person said.  A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The average age of the underlying assets is 33 months and
their average interest rate is 9.1 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  