-- Wheat Falls as Great Plains Rain May Boost Prospects for U.S. Winter-Crop
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-11-10T20:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/wheat-falls-as-great-plains-rain-may-boost-prospects-for-u-s-winter-crop.html
Wheat futures fell for a second
straight day as rain may improve prospects for recently planted
winter crops in the U.S. Great Plains.  Areas from Nebraska to northern Texas may get as much as
0.3 inch (0.8 centimeter) of rain tomorrow, and storms may
continue on Nov. 12, according to AccuWeather Inc. Most of
Kansas, the largest winter-wheat-growing state, Oklahoma and
Nebraska have received less than half of the normal amount of
 rainfall  in the past 30 days.  “We are seeing a little better rain in the forecast in the
next week and a half for the Plains,” said  Rich Nelson , the
director of research at Allendale Inc. in McHenry, Illinois. Dry
weather “is a problem producers are concerned about, but it’s
not a panic situation yet,” he said.  Wheat futures for December delivery dropped 11.75 cents, or
1.6 percent, to settle at $7.10 bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. Prices are up 48 percent since the end
of June after drought in Russia and Eastern Europe harmed crops.  About 45 percent of U.S. winter wheat was in good or
excellent condition as of Nov. 7, down from 46 percent a week
earlier and 63 percent a year earlier, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture said Nov. 8. Planting was 95 percent complete.  Futures also fell as a stronger  dollar  eroded the appeal of
U.S. supplies for holders of other currencies, and after the
USDA reported yesterday that global stockpiles were in line with
analysts’ estimates, said  Jamey Kohake , a broker and branch
manager at Paragon Investments in Silver Lake, Kansas.  Inventory Outlook  Inventories on May 31 will total 172.51 million metric
tons, 1.2 percent less than estimated last month, the USDA said.  The decline was “pretty much already built into the
market,” because wheat futures climbed 6.7 percent in the three
days before the USDA report, Kohake said. Global inventories are
“comfortable, and there’s still a margin for error if something
happens with the weather,” he said.  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 