-- Woodside Purchase May Be `Plan B' for BHP, Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-11-11T00:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/woodside-purchase-may-be-plan-b-for-bhp-morgan-stanley-says.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s
largest mining company, may seek to acquire oil and gas producer
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. if its $40 billion bid for Potash Corp.
of Saskatchewan Inc. fails, Morgan Stanley said.  A Woodside bid would be a “plausible plan B” for BHP,
according to Morgan Stanley analysts  Craig Campbell  and  Stuart Baker . One of Woodside’s partners in the North West Shelf gas
project, including Melbourne-based BHP, may buy  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc ’s remaining stake in Australia’s second-largest oil
and gas producer, they wrote in a report dated yesterday.  Shell  this week sold a 10 percent holding in Woodside for
about $3.3 billion. Europe’s largest oil company may eventually
sell its remaining 24.27 percent stake as it concentrates on
developing liquefied natural gas projects, analysts have said.  “The path to a successful takeover of Woodside is now less
challenging for either BHP or another suitor,” the Melbourne-
based Morgan Stanley analysts said.  BHP  is “acquisitive and
cashed up” and would be unlikely to confront opposition from
Australia’s Foreign Investment Review Board, they wrote.  The Canadian government on Nov. 3 rejected BHP’s offer for
Potash, saying the proposal doesn’t provide a “net benefit” to
the country. BHP has 30 days from the ruling to appeal.  “Should BHP fail to change the view of the Canadian
government in the next 30 days on Potash Corp., we expect the
market to focus on BHP potentially acquiring Woodside,” the
Morgan Stanley analysts said in the report.  ‘Not Convinced’  Macquarie Group Ltd. said in a report yesterday that it
“simply is not convinced BHP is a buyer” of  Woodside .
“Despite the growing media hype that Woodside is now in play,
we instead see this share sale as a strong suggestion that an
industry buyer could not be found,” according to the note.  Woodside also doesn’t have the oil development assets that
BHP apparently wants, Macquarie said.  Woodside  rose 1.6 percent to A$42.88 at 10:53 a.m. in
Sydney trading, valuing the Perth-based company at almost A$34
billion. BHP rose 0.7 percent to A$44.44, compared with a gain
of 0.5 percent for the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index.  A possible Woodside purchase would give BHP more LNG
production in Australia, expected to become one of the world’s
largest suppliers of the fuel, and increase its earnings, the
Morgan Stanley analysts said. BHP is Australia’s largest oil and
gas producer.  ‘Drawn Out’  Shell said Nov. 8 it would keep its remaining Woodside
holding for at least one year, “with limited exceptions,”
including a potential takeover offer by another company for
Woodside.  Buying the rest of Shell’s stake “could be a drawn out
process,” the Morgan Stanley analysts said.  BHP spokeswoman  Amanda Buckley , and  Roger Martin , a
spokesman for Woodside, this week declined to comment on
speculation of a bid.  BHP would be better off pursuing smaller targets, such as
Tampa, Florida-based steel-making coal producer  Walter Energy
Inc. , the Wall Street Journal said in its column The Source.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 