-- Bomb Timed to Explode Over Eastern U.S., Police Say
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2010-11-10T20:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/yemen-mail-bomb-could-have-exploded-over-eastern-u-s-british-probe-finds.html
A bomb in a printer cartridge sent
from Yemen that was intercepted at the U.K.’s East Midlands
airport was timed to explode over the U.S. East Coast, London’s
Metropolitan Police said.  “Forensic examination has indicated that if the device had
activated,” it would have been at 5:30 a.m. New York time on
Oct. 29, the police said in an e-mailed statement today. “If
the device had not been removed from the aircraft, the
activation could have occurred over the eastern seaboard of the
U.S.”  The Metropolitan Police, which takes the lead in U.K.
terrorism investigations, said officers removed the device from
the printer at about 7:40 a.m. British time, just under three
hours before it was set to detonate.  The plane had arrived from Cologne, Germany, at 2:13 a.m.
Authorities have said they suspect al-Qaeda in the Arabian
Peninsula, or AQAP, a branch of the terrorist group behind the
Sept. 11 attacks, carried out the bomb plot.  The U.K. investigation’s findings “underscore the serious
nature of the attempted AQAP attack and the challenge we all
face in trying to prevent or disrupt such attacks,”  Nicholas Shapiro , a White House spokesman in Washington, said in a
statement.  Another bomb that originated in Yemen was discovered and
defused by Dubai police at a FedEx Corp. facility in the emirate
on Oct. 29.  Air Cargo Security  President  Barack Obama  urged Yemen’s President  Ali Abdullah Saleh  to reinforce air cargo security in a telephone
conversation on Nov. 2. U.S. authorities have said they suspect
Ibrahim Hassan al-Asiri, a master bomb-maker from al-Qaeda,
produced the explosives.  When asked by reporters today about the British
announcement, U.S. Homeland Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano 
said Yemen-based al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula and
affiliated groups “are intent on acting in the aviation
environment and on attacking Americans and attacking our
country.”  The bomb found in the U.K. was concealed in a way that made
it difficult to detect, New York City Police Commissioner
 Raymond Kelly  said.  “This was very well done,” he told reporters today at the
city’s police headquarters. The bomb “was extremely well
hidden.” The investigation showed “we needed specific
intelligence information” to find the bomb, he said.  Key Information  The Obama administration has credited the Saudi government
with providing key information that led to discovery of the
bombs.  U.S. Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts
Democrat, said relying on intelligence isn’t enough and that he
will introduce legislation to require screening of all packages
on cargo planes.  A law passed in 2007 and co-sponsored by Markey requires
all cargo on passenger planes to be screened.  The U.S. and Britain banned freight from Yemen after the
discovery of the device, and Germany barred Yemeni flights from
landing at its airports.  The packages containing the bombs found in the U.K. and
Dubai were addressed to synagogues in Chicago. U.K. Home
Secretary  Theresa May  said Nov. 1 that British officials aren’t
aware of any further attempts to put bombs on planes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Bliss  in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling in Paris at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  