-- Yen Rises on Speculation Report of China Inflation May Spur Cooling Steps
-- B y   R o n   H a r u i   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2010-11-11T00:56:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/yen-rises-on-speculation-report-of-china-inflation-may-spur-cooling-steps.html
The yen rose versus most of its
major counterparts before a report that may show China’s
inflation quickened to the fastest pace in two years, spurring
concern the nation will take more steps to cool economic growth.  Japan’s currency gained for the fourth time in five days
against the euro after China’s central bank yesterday raised
lenders’ reserve requirements as cash from last month’s larger-
than-forecast trade surplus threatened to spark asset bubbles.
The euro traded near a five-week low versus the dollar before
German and French reports today that may show slowing growth in
Europe’s largest economies. The Australian dollar slipped after
data showed the jobless rate increased.  “The risk is around that inflation data out of China,”
said  Alex Sinton , a senior dealer in Auckland at ANZ National
Bank Ltd. “If it comes to a level where it’s not controllable,
the central banks will have to do something more than what
they’re currently doing. People might be happy to flock to the
dollar and yen if there’s a shock number on the topside.”  The yen advanced to 113.26 per euro as of 9:52 a.m. in
Tokyo from 113.41 in New York yesterday. Japan’s currency was at
82.23 per dollar from 82.28. The euro traded at $1.3775 from
$1.3783 yesterday, when it dropped to $1.3671, the weakest level
since Oct. 5.  Japan’s currency fell to the weakest level in more than a
month against the greenback yesterday as U.S.  Treasury  10-year
yields near seven-week highs made dollar-denominated assets more
attractive. The 10-year yield reached 2.77 percent, the highest
since Sept. 17.  China’s Consumer Prices  China’s consumer prices rose 4 percent in October, the
biggest gain since October 2008, after a 3.6 percent increase in
September, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists
before today’s statistics bureau report.  The People’s Bank of China said in a statement on its
website about eight hours after the trade data was released
yesterday that reserve requirements will increase 0.5 percentage
point from Nov. 16.  Gains in the  dollar  may be limited after South Korean
President Lee Myung Bak expressed confidence that Group of 20
nations can overcome discord on currencies and trade imbalances.  “The Group of 20 will reach an agreement on various
issues, including currency, even if they still have different
ideas,” Lee told international business leaders gathered in
Seoul today.  There has been progress on these issues since G-20
financial chiefs met in Gyeongju, South Korea, in October, Lee
said.  Europe’s Economies  The euro traded near a six-week low against the pound on
speculation the pace of economic growth in the 16-nation region
is faltering.  Germany’s  gross domestic product  rose 0.8 percent in the
third quarter after increasing 2.2 percent in the prior period,
according to a Bloomberg survey. France’s GDP expanded 0.5
percent in the July-September period, compared with a 0.7
percent advance in the previous quarter, another Bloomberg
survey showed. Both reports will be released tomorrow.  “We’re going to see a little bit of slowdown in the euro-
zone growth story in the third-quarter,” said John
Kiriakopoulos, Sydney-based head of currency strategy at
National Australia Bank Ltd. “That expectation has tended to
weigh on the euro and give some support to the U.S. dollar.”  Europe’s currency was at 85.39 pence from 85.50 yesterday,
when it fell to 85.25 pence, the weakest since Sept. 28.  Australia’s unemployment rate rose to 5.4 percent in
October, the most since at least April, from 5.1 percent the
previous month, government data showed today. Economists had
forecast the October figure would be 5 percent. The Australian
dollar slid 0.4 percent $1.0015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 Myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  