-- Dollar Advances to Strongest in a Month Against Yen Amid High U.S. Yields
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-11-10T22:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/yen-declines-against-higher-yielding-currencies-on-asian-recovery-signs.html
The dollar advanced to the strongest
level in more than a month against the yen as U.S. Treasury 10-
year  yields  near seven-week highs made assets denominated in the
greenback more attractive to international investors.  Sterling rose versus all of its 16 most-traded counterparts
after a Bank of England report showed higher-than-expected
inflation in September. The euro fell against half of the major
currencies on concern some European nations will struggle to pay
their debt. President  Barack Obama  told other global leaders the
dollar’s strength rests on sustaining U.S. expansion.  “The market typically buys dollars when yields go higher,”
said  Lane Newman , director of foreign exchange at ING Groep NV
in New York. “You’ve got to be careful with buying too many
euros because Europe has its own problems.”  The dollar rose 0.7 percent to 82.28 yen at 5 p.m. in New
York, from 81.69 yesterday. It reached 82.80 yen, the strongest
level since Oct. 7. The yen, which fell against all of its major
counterparts, depreciated 0.8 percent to 113.39 per euro, from
112.51 yesterday. The euro was little changed at $1.3783,
compared with $1.3773 yesterday, after earlier falling to
$1.3671, the lowest level since Oct. 5.  The Japanese currency fell to its weakest level of the day
versus the greenback as Treasury yields surged following lower-
than-average demand at a $16 billion sale of U.S. 30-year bonds.
The sale drew $2.31 in bids for every $1 sold, versus an average
$2.70 at the past 10 auctions.  Seven-Week High  The Treasury 10-year yield reached 2.77 percent, the
highest level since Sept. 17, before trading at 2.63 percent. It
touched 2.33 percent on Oct. 8.  The dollar reversed an earlier advance versus the euro
after U.S. stocks reversed losses. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index  rose 0.4 percent after falling as much as 0.8 percent. The
MSCI World Index of equities slid 0.7 percent.  Obama, who is joining other Group of 20 leaders at a summit
that starts tomorrow in Seoul, defended America’s economic
policy by arguing growth in the U.S. is the “most important
contribution” the country can make to the global recovery and
that its “fundamental strength” will ultimately determine the
dollar’s value.  His comments were the latest attempt to blunt criticism
from other nations that last week’s decision by the Federal
Reserve to buy $600 billion in U.S. bonds risks undermining
their economies by weakening the dollar and flooding emerging
markets with capital. The comments were made in a letter
yesterday to Obama’s fellow leaders.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
today he’ “convinced it’s in the interest of the U.S., Europe
and the international community that we have a dollar that is
strong relative to other major currencies.” Trichet spoke at a
conference in Lyon, France.  Sovereign-Debt Concern  The euro fell against eight of its 16 most-traded
counterparts amid concern that Europe’s weakest economies face
difficulty reducing their budget deficits.  The extra  yield  investors demand to hold 10-year Irish
government bonds instead of benchmark German bunds widened to
more than 600 basis points for the first time, reaching 622
basis points. The yield difference, or spread, on Portugal’s 10-
year bonds over bunds increased to 467 basis points. Ireland and
Portugal are among the euro region’s most indebted countries.  The cost of insuring Irish debt rose. Credit-default swaps
on the nation’s government debt surged 18 basis points to 585
basis points, according to data provider CMA. Contracts on
Portuguese debt increased 14 basis points to 467 basis points.  ‘Crisis Levels’  “Whether you’re looking at bond spreads or the credit-
default swaps, all of those are basically back to crisis levels,
and that indicates a pretty high level of nervousness among
investors on holding debt from the periphery in the euro zone,”
said  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in Washington at currency
brokerage Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc.  U.K. inflation was 3.1 percent in September, exceeding the
government’s 3 percent limit for a seventh month. Bank of
England Governor  Mervyn King  has already written three letters
this year to Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  to
explain the inflation rate and there is a “high probability”
he will have to write another one, the bank said today.  The pound appreciated 0.9 percent to $1.6121 after earlier
losing 0.2 percent to $1.5961. It dropped yesterday to its
weakest level since Oct. 29. Sterling advanced for a fifth
straight day against the euro, its longest winning streak since
the nine days ended April 8, gaining 0.8 percent to 85.51 pence.  While inflation will likely slow as the impact of increases
in sales tax and import prices diminishes, “the timing and
extent of that decline in inflation are highly uncertain,” the
central bank said today in its quarterly inflation report.  Canadian Dollar  Canada’s dollar was the second-best performer against the
greenback among major currencies. It gained versus its U.S.
counterpart for the first time in three days on a rally in crude
oil, the nation’s biggest export, appreciating 0.7 percent to
C$1.0007 per U.S. dollar. It touched parity for a fourth day.  The yuan advanced versus the dollar before the summit of G-
20 leaders. China’s currency appreciated as much as 0.2 percent
to 6.6329 per dollar, the strongest level since the nation
unified official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  