-- Zoellick Says Concern QE to Boost Capital Flows `Overstated'
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   P h i l l i p   Y i n
-- 2010-11-10T10:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-10/zoellick-says-concern-qe-to-boost-hot-money-flows-to-asia-are-overstated-.html
Fears that quantitative easing by
the U.S. will lead to a surge in capital flows to emerging
markets have been overblown, World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said.  “Some of the concerns have been overstated,” Zoellick
said in a Bloomberg Television interview in Singapore today.
“Even if you didn’t have quantitative easing, as long as you
have differential growth rates you’re going to see capital flow
to these emerging markets.”  The U.S. Federal Reserve last week announced plans to buy
$600 billion of long-term government bonds in its second effort
at so-called quantitative easing, or QE2, aiming to stoke U.S.
economic growth. Policy makers from Asia to South America
responded by warning it could depress the dollar and spark
capital flight to emerging markets.  While the Fed’s move has “made the debate tenser,” it’s
unlikely to create a flood of additional funds internationally,
Zoellick said. These tensions can lead to “a downward spiral of
protectionism,” he said.  “Part of the problem in the system is because the Chinese
currency is pegged, it’s hard for others to adjust if China
doesn’t adjust,” Zoellick said.  Bretton Woods III  Asian currencies fell today, led by Singapore’s dollar and
Thailand’s baht, on concern policy makers will follow China and
Taiwan in imposing capital controls to curb inflows as the U.S.
pumps funds into its economy. Taiwan said yesterday it would
restrict foreign investment in government bonds and money-market
products, while China said it would force banks to hold more
foreign exchange.  “In the broader issue of exchange rates, you’re moving to
what I call a Bretton Woods III system, where you have key roles
for the dollar, the euro, the yen, the pound, and over time, the
renminbi,” he said. The Chinese currency “has to
internationalize and then become an open capital account.”  Zoellick said in a column in the Financial Times earlier
this week that Group of 20 nations should consider using gold as
an international reference point of market expectations about
inflation, deflation and future currency values as they reform
the global monetary system.  “Gold is the yellow elephant in the room,” Zoellick said
today. “Markets are already using gold as an alternative
monetary asset because confidence is low. Policy makers need to
consider this as an indicator about how markets are viewing
their policies.”  Gold Standard  Zoellick said today his call for the use of gold as a
reference point is not one that advocates a return to the gold
standard. After his Financial Times column, Reuters said
Zoellick was suggesting the adoption of a “modified gold
standard” while Agence France-Presse described it as a call on
G-20 nations to bring gold back “as an anchor to guide currency
movements.”  “I don’t believe you can return to a fixed exchange rate
system and therefore I don’t believe you can return to the gold
standard,” Zoellick told reporters in Singapore today.
“There’s uncertainty about the future of the international
monetary system. That’s not saying there should be a gold
standard. It is saying that we have a problem that needs to be
fixed.”  Over time, countries need to be able to have flexible
exchange rates, the former U.S. deputy secretary of state and
chief trade representative said in the interview.  Extreme Circumstances  “You need to be able to try to avoid interventions except
for extreme circumstances,” he said. Some of the emerging
markets may have some hot capital-flow issues to deal with, and
global finance chiefs and central bankers need to agree to some
“sort of norms of what are the appropriate roles, and then have
the International Monetary Fund partly be the referee that
observes those norms and as necessary blows the whistle,” he
said.  The global recovery has been “rather slow and still
fraught with uncertainties,” Zoellick said.  Asia needs to spur private investment in infrastructure and
increase the efficiency of government spending on such projects
to support growth, he said in a speech in Singapore today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  