-- Renault to Buy 25% of Russia's AvtoVAZ, Fends Off GM
-- Laurence Frost
-- 2007-12-07T22:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-12-07/renault-to-buy-25-of-russia-s-avtovaz-fends-off-gm-update4-.html

          
          
             Renault SA (RNO) , France's second-largest
automaker, agreed to buy 25 percent of Russia's OAO AvtoVAZ,
fending off a bid from  General Motors Corp. (GM)   
 Renault will purchase the stake in Russia's No. 1 car
company from state-owned arms exporter Rosoboronexport, Valery Kartavtsev, a spokesman for the defense firm, said today by
telephone. He declined to give a price.  
 ``AvtoVAZ would have given GM some extra capacity -- and
will give Renault some extra capacity -- in one of the hottest
markets in the world,'' said  Erich Merkle , an analyst at IRN Inc.
in Grand Rapids, Michigan. ``It's a bit of a gain for Renault.''  
 Carmakers are jostling for a share of the Russian market,
where foreign auto sales soared by almost two-thirds through
September. Paris-based Renault already has a plant in Moscow,
while larger French rival  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  plans to choose a
factory site this month.  
 Renault Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  will travel to
AvtoVAZ's headquarters in Togliatti tomorrow, when more details
will be announced, said Nathalie Bourotte, a spokeswoman for the
French company. She declined to comment further.  
 GM said Dec. 4 it was pursuing a ``significant'' stake in
AvtoVAZ, and spokeswoman Melisa Tezanos today had no immediate
comment on Renault's bid. The Detroit automaker already builds
Chevrolet Niva sport-utility vehicles and Viva sedans in a joint
venture with the Russian company. GM is nearing completion of a
plant near  St. Petersburg  that will make 70,000 autos annually.  
 Russian Rise  
 GM's sales grew 75 percent in Russia during the third
quarter while declining 6 percent in North America. The increase
helped GM regain its title as the world's largest automaker from
Japan's Toyota Motor Corp. after losing it for the first half.  
 AvtoVAZ also signed an agreement with Magna International
Inc. in July to develop a new sedan for the Russian market, and
had identified the Canadian auto-parts maker as a potential
investor, along with Italy's  Fiat SpA. (F)   
 Renault's stake would have a value of $1.36 billion, based
on AvtoVAZ's market value of $5.44 billion at the close today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Foreign car sales in Russia surged 63 percent to 1.14
million vehicles in the first nine months, the Association of
European Businesses said Oct. 9. GM's Chevrolet led the way, with
131,653 sales.  
 Volkswagen AG, Europe's largest auto company, opened its own
Russian factory on Nov. 28. Toyota,  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  and Volvo
AB also plan to build Russian plants.  
 Spurned by GM  
 Renault's successful bid for AvtoVAZ comes 14 months after
GM spurned an offer of a partnership with Renault and its Nissan
Motor Co. affiliate.  
 The alliance was proposed by billionaire investor  Kirk
Kerkorian , at the time GM's largest individual shareholder. The
talks broke off after GM disagreed with the French and Japanese
companies over how much it would be would be compensated for
being part of the association.  
 Ghosn, who is CEO of Renault and Nissan, has said as
recently as October that he still wants a North American partner.  
 GM gained 1 cent to $28.62 at 4:22 p.m. in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have fallen 6.8 percent
this year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Ermakova in Moscow at 
 mermakova@bloomberg.net ;
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Keith Campbell  at   k.campbell@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Jasper at   cjasper@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        