-- Soriana to Pay $1.35 Billion for Gigante's Stores
-- Thomas Black
-- 2007-12-07T00:25:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-12-07/soriana-to-pay-1-35-billion-for-gigante-s-stores-update3-.html

          
          
             Organizacion Soriana SAB (SORIANAB) ,  Mexico 's
second-largest retailer, agreed to buy Grupo Gigante SAB's 206
supermarkets for $1.35 billion, spurring competition among
grocers.  
 Soriana will also pay about 3.63 billion pesos ($335
million) for 80 percent of Gigante's inventories, Pedro Mejia,
the company's director of planning and strategy, said. The sale
includes 199 supermarkets in Mexico, seven in the U.S., as well
as equipment and distribution centers, Soriana said in a
statement sent to the Mexican stock exchange.  
 The purchase will allow Monterrey-based Soriana to expand
outside of northern Mexico, where most of its stores are
located. It gives Soriana additional stores to compete with  Wal-
Mart de Mexico SAB , the nation's largest retailer, and
Controladora Comericial Mexicana SAB, the third-largest.  
 ``It's more competition for them and especially for
Comercial Mexicana,'' said Maria del Carmen Negrete, a retail
analyst with Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA in Mexico.
``Soriana can invest what's needed to renovate the stores, which
Gigante couldn't.''  
 Controladora Comercial Mexicana was interested in buying
the stores, as was Wal-Mart de Mexico, the Mexico City newspaper
Excelsior reported in November. Wal-Mart de Mexico, also known
as Walmex, has expanded food sales to attract grocery shoppers
to its supercenters.  
 Last year, Soriana had  sales  of 58.4 billion pesos, and
Gigante's sales were 32.5 billion pesos. Walmex had sales of 199
billion pesos in 2006.  
 Bank Loans  
 Soriana plans to pay off the bank loans it takes on to
acquire Gigante in about five years and bring its debt level to
zero, Mejia said. To free up funds to repay debt, the company
will slow store openings to about 10 a year from 40 now, he said.  
 The company will need to spend $400 million to $500 million
over four years to convert the Gigante stores to Soriana's
format, Mejia said. Soriana plans to change the name of all the
Gigante stores to Soriana within four months of getting approval
from Mexico's  antitrust  authority. That permission will probably
come in ``a question of weeks,'' Mejia said.  
 Soriana may close some stores and distribution centers
after evaluating the properties, Mejia said. In one case,
Soriana will gain two Gigante distribution centers in Monterrey
in addition to the two it already operates in the northern
industrial city, he said.  
 No Land  
 Soriana won't gain any land in the transaction, and will
rent property from Gigante, which owns the land for 45 percent
of its stores, and other companies, Mejia said. Soriana owns the
property on 88 percent of its 254 stores, he said.  
 Mejia declined to say how much Soriana might save by adding
Gigante's stores. Soriana will employ Gigante's more-than 25,000
employees, he said.  
 The acquisition will give Soriana 47 stores in the Mexico
City area, where the company only operates one store.
Penetrating the Mexico City market has been difficult for
Soriana because of competition and a lack of available real
estate, Mejia said.  
 ``It's one of the most attractive parts of the
transaction,'' Mejia said. ``This gives us access to the most
important market in the country.''  
 With the Gigante stores, Soriana will be able to negotiate
lower prices from suppliers and compete on more equal footing
with Wal-Mart, said Devan Kaloo, who helps manage $9 billion of
emerging market equities for Aberdeen Asset Management Ltd. in
 London .  
 Margin Boost  
 ``It increases the size of the company significantly, and
that allows them to be able to potentially boost margins through
better purchasing power,'' Kaloo said. ``It gets them into new
areas of Mexico where they have been struggling to open
markets.''  
 Kaloo's firm is the second-largest holder of Soriana
shares, according data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The acquisition doesn't include shares of Gigante, which
will spin off the supermarkets, Gigante said in a statement.
Gigante said it will focus on real estate and will evaluate
options for its remaining operations, which include Super Precio
convenience stores and Toks restaurants, as well as joint-
ventures with the OfficeMax and RadioShack chains.  
 Soriana rose 6.1 percent to 33.65 pesos in Mexico City
trading as of 4:11 p.m.  New York  time. The stock is up 42
percent this year. Gigante shares climbed 14 percent to 28.50
pesos. The  shares  have more than doubled in 2007.  
 The Federal Competitions Commission, the antitrust
authority, said it will rule on the acquisition before Dec. 21
when its officials go on a two-week vacation for the Christmas
holiday.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
William Freebairn in Mexico City 
 wfreebairn@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey, Mexico, at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Nol in New York at   mnol@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        