-- Mechel Plans to Focus on Margins, Shun Acquisitions
-- Yuriy Humber
-- 2007-07-06T09:11:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-07-06/mechel-plans-to-focus-on-margins-shun-acquisitions-update1-.html

          
          
             OAO Mechel (MTLR) , a Russian steelmaker,
doesn't plan to participate in the industry's mergers and
acquisitions and will focus on improving margins, said Vladimir Polin, chief of its management company.  
 While domestic rivals such as OAO Severstal, the country's
largest steel producer, and Evraz Group SA pursue foreign
acquisitions, Mechel intends to feed Russia's construction boom.
Mechel's expansion plan may triple profit on each ton of steel.  
 ``We don't plan any mergers in the next few years'' or the
sale of the main steel plant in Chelyabinsk, Polin said in a
July 4 interview in Moscow. ``Our investment program is not
aimed at increasing steel production volumes; we want to achieve
the maximum effect on the market.''  
 In February, Vedomosti reported Rosoboronexport,  Russia 's
state-owned arms trader, was in talks to add the Chelyabinsk
plant to its special-steels holding company, Russpetsstal. Polin
declined to comment on the trader's interest.  
 Mechel, based in Moscow, will spend $1.5 billion on its
steel business through 2011. It will boost annual crude-steel
production by 12 percent to 6.7 million tons and rolled-steel
output by 26 percent to 5.9 million tons by 2012, Polin said.  
 The company's steel unit fell outside of Russia's top five
steelmakers ranked by output in 2006. Banks including Aton
Capital Group and Renaissance Capital predicted last year that
the company may sell out of steel. Mechel also mines coal.  
 Olympic Boost  
 Russia's construction boom will benefit from the award of
the 2014 Winter Olympic Games to the southern city of Sochi. The
domestic market may face a shortage of certain products, said
Rob Edwards, an analyst with Renaissance Capital in Moscow.  
 ``The Russian market certainly needs more focus, as demand
is way in excess of what we expected,'' Edwards said.
Renaissance has increased its forecast for domestic steel demand
to 43 million tons by 2009, from the 37 million tons, he said.  
 Mechel (MTLR)  is shifting sales from basic products such as steel
billet, which has a margin of as much as $60 a ton, to high-
endurance rebar and structural shapes that will earn the company
at least $200 a ton, Polin said.  
 Russia will account for as much as 80 percent of Mechel's
sales by 2012, from 57 percent last year, he said.  
 The company will sink $650 million into boosting its market
share of rolled products, such as rebar and structural shapes
used by construction companies and machine builders. It will
spend $250 million to raise production of slabs to 1.2 million
tons from 700,000 tons last year. Output of flat products such
as plate, used for pipes, will rise to 1.1 million tons.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Justin Carrigan at   jcarrigan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        