-- Property Tax Nightmare Is Avoided With Appeal: John F. Wasik
-- John F. Wasik
-- 2009-06-10T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-06-10/property-tax-nightmare-is-avoided-with-appeal-john-f-wasik.html

          
          
             As home values drop, your property
taxes should do the same, right?  
 Unlike sales and other excise taxes, you have a small
amount of control over your property taxes. Yet you will only
see results if you challenge the assessed value of your home,
something that only a few owners do.  
 Why is it that so few taxpayers try to reduce their
property taxes? While as many as 60 percent of all U.S. homes
may be overassessed, according to the  National Taxpayers Union ,
most don’t know how the process works or that they even have the
right to appeal.  
 You are likely to have more success this year because there
is a large disparity between assessed values from the boom years
and depressed current market values in most areas.  
 Most likely your home’s assessment is out of date since it
is based on an average of local values that may go back as long
as three years. Since the height of the boom market,  prices  have
declined by 20 percent to 50 percent.  
 Appealing your assessment  is something anyone can do, yet
it is important to do some preparation work to ensure success.
This is something I do almost every year. I have been able to
lower or freeze my home’s assessed value several times.  
 How to Appeal  
 Having battled with my township assessor for years and
formed a local  nonprofit group  to promote assessment
transparency, I can confirm there’s often little accountability
in how they value your property. They make mistakes, and
assessments may be wildly inconsistent in your community.  
 It’s time to do some homework. Your first bit of legwork
involves checking your home’s legal description. Does it match
precisely your house and lot characteristics? There may be
errors in their records on the number of finished rooms, lot
size and interior square footage in your home.  
 Say your assessor records your home as having five bedrooms
and you have only four. Produce a set of blueprints or have them
inspect the home. The discrepancy may instantly lower your
property assessment.  
 The second step is to determine whether you are fairly
assessed. You will need to work out whether similar houses sold
at lower prices than your home’s current market value. Are there
any local features that will reduce your property’s value?
Railroads, highways, landfills, easements and re-zonings (to
commercial) count.  
 You can present these details to your assessor before you
file a formal appeal, but don’t expect him to give you a
reduction.  Most states  have bodies that deal specifically with
real-estate tax appeals at higher levels.  
 Higher Appeals  
 When appealing, you will have a solid case if your
“evidence” of at least three to five comparable homes -- those
closely matching yours in the number of rooms, square footage,
lot size and type -- show lower relative market values.  
 If you don’t feel comfortable researching and filing your
own appeal, you can hire an attorney. They are usually
compensated by taking a percentage of your tax savings.  
 Appeal boards also tend to respect the opinion of a
certified real-estate appraiser more than yours. Spend a few
hundred dollars to present a recent certified appraisal and your
chances of winning a reduction typically rise.  
 Be professional and precisely document your case. Appeals
boards are swamped right now.  Ocean County , New Jersey, for
example, is facing more than 14,000 appeals this year, a record
number in the state with the highest property taxes. In some
counties, assessment challenges have tripled.  
 Stay Focused  
 Typically you will have just a few minutes to make your
appeal. Keep in mind it isn’t a court of law and you have to
meet strict filing deadlines.  
 Don’t expect an immediate reduction in property taxes,
either. Taxing bodies still have the power to raise levies or
float referendums if they need funds. Your taxes may rise --
even in this market.  
 If the deadline for appeal has passed this year, start
building your case for next year as market values may decline
further in your area.  
 Definitely mount a challenge if you are in the highest
property-tax states, such as Connecticut, Nebraska,
Pennsylvania, Ohio, New York and Massachusetts, according to the
 National Taxpayers Union .  
 If you do about an hour’s worth of careful research, you
may be rewarded by a lower tax bill. It is one of the few
benefits of this housing recession, so take advantage of it
while the market is still reeling.  
 ( John F. Wasik , author of “The Cul-de-Sac Syndrome,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
John F. Wasik in Chicago at 
 jwasik@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        