-- Russian Stocks Rise for First Time in Three Days on $71 Oil
-- Anastasia Ustinova
-- 2009-06-10T15:52:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-06-10/russian-stocks-rise-for-first-time-in-three-days-on-71-oil.html

          
          
             Russian  stocks  advanced for the
first time in three days as rising commodity prices lifted
energy companies and metal producers.  
 OAO Tatneft, the Tatarstan-based oil producer, and OAO GMK
Norilsk Nickel rallied more than 4 percent after  oil  topped $71
a barrel and nickel climbed to the highest since October. The
30-stock  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  added 1.8 percent to 1,133.69 at the close
in Moscow.  
 “ Oil prices  rising beyond $70 a barrel passed a sort of a
psychological threshold for many investors,” said Alexander Zakharov, co-head of equities at the Metropol brokerage in
Moscow. Commodities are supporting the market, he said.  
 The Micex has soared 83 percent this year, making  Russia 
the world’s second-best performing market after  Peru , as crude
more than doubled from this year’s low in January on signs the
worst of the global economic slowdown is over.  
 Commodities advanced today as  China  said property sales and
investment are accelerating, adding to signs the world’s third-
largest economy is recovering. Oil rose to a seven-month high in
 New York , while copper, nickel and zinc gained in  London .  
 Tatneft, a regional oil producer, advanced 4.7 percent to
127.63 ruble, the first gain this week. OAO Gazprom, the world’s
biggest natural-gas producer, advanced 2.4 percent to 181.50
rubles.  
 Crude for July delivery rose 1.7 percent to $71.22 a barrel
in New York after a government report showed that U.S. crude and
fuel supplies unexpectedly fell.  
 Lukoil Upgrade  
 OAO Lukoil, Russia’s largest non-state producer, rose as
much as 3.3 percent to 1,705 rubles after Bank of America Corp.-
Merrill Lynch & Co. upgraded its recommendation on the stock to
“buy” from “neutral.” It closed up 0.4 percent.  
 “We believe that Lukoil is one of the best-positioned
companies to benefit from rising oil prices and that it should
outperform as investors start looking for true value in the
Russian market,” analysts Karen Kostanian and Taleh Musayev
wrote in a report dated today. The brokerage raised its price
estimate on the stock 17 percent to $68 per global depository
receipt.  
 Norilsk Nickel , the world’s biggest producer of the metal,
gained 7 percent to 3,360.88 rubles, the second-steepest gain on
the Micex. Nickel advanced 1.9 percent to 15.287 a ton after
rising as much as 3.3 percent on the London Metal Exchange, the
highest since October.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Anastasia Ustinova in Moscow at 
 austinova@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        