-- INSTANT VIEW:  Home prices fall further in April: S&P
-- 
-- Tue Jun 24, 2008 11:31am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/06/24/us-usa-economy-caseshiller-idUSN2432765120080624

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - U.S. home prices extended 
their record slide in April, with every top metropolitan area 
now posting annual losses and many showing double-digit 
declines, according to the Standard & Poor's/Case Shiller home 
price index report on Tuesday.
   
KEY POINTS: 
* The S&P/Case Shiller composite index of 20 metro areas fell 
1.4 percent in April from March and slumped by a record 15.3 
percent over the year. 

  
* Economists expected prices for the 20-city index to fall 2.0 
percent in the month and 15.9 percent from April 2007, 
according to the median forecast in a Reuters survey.  
* S&P said its composite index of 10 metro areas slid 1.6 
percent in April for a record 16.3 percent annual drop.  
* Home prices in a dozen of the metro areas have fallen for 
eight straight months. 
COMMENTS: 
NARIMAN BEHRAVESH, CHIEF ECONOMIST, GLOBAL INSIGHT, LEXINGTON, 
MASSACHUSETTS: "It's a fair statement. We're still a ways from the bottom, 
but the pace of the price drops seems to be slowing a little 
bit, which suggests we may be approaching a bottom. But I don't 
know if we're near a bottom, but we're approaching a bottom in 
term of house prices. I think that's probably right, which 
suggests that the very worse of the crisis may be behind us, 
although we're not done yet, we're not out of the woods yet. "It's a little hard to tell, I think the market has other 
things on its mind, mainly oil prices, inflation and what's the 
Fed's going to do. It's almost like the housing and subprime 
crisis are old news. It's kind of odd but I think that's what 
it is. So I think this is fine, there may be a slight positive 
reaction to it, but the market seems to have moved on to 
worrying about other things."  JAMES CARON, CO-HEAD OF GLOBAL RATES RESEARCH, MORGAN STANLEY, 
NEW YORK: "It is no surprise that home prices are slowing. The 
housing market has become a much bigger part of the equation 
over the last several months. But the fact that the survey was 
supposed to be down 16 percent and it is down 15.3 percent -- 
I'll take it. Any news is good news these days. The basic story 
is that home prices are weak, and we know that and the only 
thing we can say is that fortunately it didn't accelerate 
weaker."  PIERRE ELLIS, SENIOR ECONOMIST, DECISION ECONOMICS, NEW YORK: "The S&P/Case-Shiller indexes fell a little less than what 
was generally expected and to some degree that reflects 
outright slowdowns in declines in some markets. It's not a 
striking move but it's the first time that has really happened. 
In the big scheme of things, some markets did not overshoot as 
much as others and the declines there ultimately should be 
smaller and a potentially sustainable level might be coming 
into sight. But the vastly overbuilt Sunbelt markets will 
continue to have trouble for a long time. "It's not a striking change in the general state of affairs 
but it's perhaps the first glimmer of hope. Declines were 
slower in Chicago. Cleveland fell 9.5 percent year over year as 
of March and in April it's down 6.8 percent. But it's not a 
typical market. Prices never really went up there that much. A 
more telling case is Denver which has been doing better for two 
months. It's going to be a slow process but the less overblown 
markets will stabilize first and we're getting a hint that 
that's beginning to happen. Ultimately, with a very long lag, 
the serious bubble markets will settle down, too, but not in a 
timeframe that is meaningful for markets now."  RICHARD DEKASER, CHIEF ECONOMIST, NATIONAL CITY CORP., 
CLEVELAND: "It is encouraging to see the pace of price decline slowed, 
but a single month does not a trend make. I would wait another 
month to reckon if such a trend is in place. The bad news is 
that the price is still declining. This is not representative 
of home prices across America. "The potential is a vicious cycle which we may already be 
experiencing. Falling home prices are leading to more 
foreclosures which cause a further decline in prices."  MARKET REACTION:  * BONDS: U.S. Treasury debt prices hold gains  * CURRENCIES: U.S. dollar holds losses against the euro  * STOCKS: U.S. equity index futures pare losses slightly  * RATE FUTURES: Fed fund futures show 74 percent chance of 
August rate hike, steady from before the data.  
EARLIER DATA FROM JUNE 24: US chain store sales fell 0.6 pct last week-ICSC