-- Virgin America Wants Chief to Stay Three More Months
-- John Hughes
-- 2007-09-12T20:28:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-09-12/virgin-america-wants-chief-to-stay-three-more-months-update2-.html

          
          
             Virgin America  Inc., the low-cost
airline partly owned by U.K. billionaire  Richard Branson , wants
the U.S. to let its chief executive officer stay three months
longer so the company has time to replace him.  
 Finding a successor for CEO Fred Reid ``has proven
challenging,'' and he should be able to keep working until Feb.
18 instead of Nov. 18 as the Transportation Department ordered,
Virgin America said yesterday in a petition filed in Washington.  
 Virgin America agreed to replace Reid, 57, after the
department said last December it was worried he would be
beholden to Branson. U.S. law bars non-citizens from exercising
``actual control'' over a U.S. carrier.  
 Virgin America, based in Burlingame,  California , is trying
to expand Branson's brand in the U.S. amid competition from
carriers such as  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  The airline began flying
Aug. 8 with trips between California and New York, and it plans
to expand to Washington and  Las Vegas  later this year.  
 The Transportation Department will take comments on the
Reid request until Sept. 14 and allow three more days for
replies, according to an agency notice today. Virgin America
requested a decision by Sept. 17.  
 A May 18 agency order that gave Virgin America permission
to start service allowed Reid to work as a consultant for the
carrier for three months after he steps down Nov. 18.  
 Letting him work instead as chief executive would only be a
``limited'' change to the May order, Kenneth Quinn, the
carrier's outside attorney in Washington, said in the petition.  
 Board members responsible for hiring Reid's replacement
``are busy in other businesses and simultaneously involved in
overseeing the launch of the airline,'' Quinn wrote.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 Jhughes5@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Versical at 
 dversical@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        