-- `Voldemort Book' Destroys Merrill, `Zombie Economics': Top Business Books
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2010-12-06T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/-voldemort-book-kills-merrill-hellhound-bites-citi-top-business-books.html
With so many business books being
published each month, we’re often asked for recommendations.
Here are 30 of our favorite hardbacks published this year.  “Adam Smith” by Nicholas Phillipson (Yale/Allen Lane).
This “intellectual biography” documents how Smith’s “The
Wealth of Nations” grew out of the Scottish Enlightenment.  “Aftershock” by  Robert B. Reich  (Knopf). The former U.S.
Labor Secretary explores how 30 years of growing income
inequality helped bring on the Great Recession.  “All the Devils Are Here” by  Bethany McLean  and  Joe Nocera  (Portfolio). A detailed account of how the financial
crisis bubbled up from a volatile, and bipartisan, mixture of
government meddling and laissez-faire.  “American Colossus” by  H.W. Brands  (Doubleday). A big,
brash narrative history that shows how capitalism triumphed over
democracy between 1865 and 1900.  “The Big Short” by  Michael Lewis  (Norton/Allen Lane). The
author of “Liar’s Poker” tells the story of a loner with a
glass eye and other outliers who shorted the subprime market.  “Broke, USA” by  Gary Rivlin  (HarperBusiness). Rivlin, a
tireless reporter, takes a queasy journey through what he calls
“Poverty Inc.,” where the rich get richer by lending to the
working poor.  “Chasing Goldman Sachs” by  Suzanne McGee  (Crown
Business). A disturbing account of how  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .
became a seductively successful Pied Piper, luring rival banks
down a path to destruction.  “Crash of the Titans” by Greg Farrell (Crown Business).
An exhaustive reconstruction of how  Merrill Lynch & Co . sealed
its own fate by becoming more bullish on bonuses than on
America.  “Crisis Economics” by  Nouriel Roubini  and  Stephen Mihm 
(Penguin Press/Allen Lane). The prescient New York University
professor explains why booms and busts occur.  “Dealings” by  Felix Rohatyn  (Simon & Schuster). A
charming if slippery memoir of the Lazard Freres banker’s life
in finance and politics.  “The Devil’s Casino” by  Vicky Ward  (Wiley). A look at the
destructive rivalry among  Richard S. Fuld Jr . and four other men
who rose to power at Lehman in the 1980s.  “Diary of a Very Bad Year” by Anonymous Hedge Fund
Manager, n+1 and Keith Gessen (Harper Perennial). Gessen, a
founding editor of literary magazine n+1, presents an arresting
clutch of interviews that he says he conducted with an anonymous
hedge-fund manager during the crisis.  “The End of Wall Street” by  Roger Lowenstein  (Penguin
Press). A decade after capturing the hubris of Long-Term Capital
Management LP in “When Genius Failed,” Lowenstein reports on
what he calls “the mother of all bubbles.”  “The Facebook Effect” by  David Kirkpatrick  (Simon &
Schuster). An engrossing and scrupulously fair history of how
 Mark Zuckerberg  built the social-networking website.  “Fault Lines” by  Raghuram G. Rajan  (Princeton). The
University of Chicago professor shows why our flawed financial
order risks driving us “from bubble to bubble.”  “Freefall” by  Joseph E. Stiglitz  (Norton/Allen Lane). The
Nobel Prize-winning economist describes the flawed theories and
misguided policies that wrought the meltdown.  “The Hellhound of Wall Street” by  Michael Perino  (Penguin
Press). A page-turning history of how  Ferdinand Pecora’s 
investigation into the Crash of 1929 helped lawmakers curb
abuses on Wall Street.  “High Financier” by  Niall Ferguson  (Penguin Press/Allen
Lane). The Harvard historian presents a fresh assessment of how
and why  Siegmund Warburg  rose to fame in postwar London.  “Identity Economics” by  George A. Akerlof  and Rachel E.
Kranton (Princeton). Decisions that shape our lives often hinge
on our perceived place in society, not solely on a calculation
of financial costs and benefits.  “The Invisible Hands” by  Steven Drobny  (Wiley). The co-
founder of Drobny Global Advisors frets that taxpayers may end
up bailing out pension plans. He blames Harvard’s class of ‘69.  “More Money Than God” by  Sebastian Mallaby  (Penguin
Press/Bloomsbury). A storied history of hedge-fund luminaries,
from Alfred Winslow Jones to  Ken Griffin .  “No One Would Listen” by  Harry Markopolos  (Wiley). A
first-person account of the struggle to convince the Securities
and Exchange Commission that  Bernard Madoff’s  returns were
mathematically impossible.  “On the Brink” by  Henry M. Paulson Jr . (Business Plus).
The former U.S. Treasury secretary describes his fight to prop
up the financial system.  “Priceless” by  William Poundstone  (Hill and Wang).
Companies, restaurants and even artists exploit psychology to
extract more cash from the rest of us, as Poundstone shows.  “The Quants” by Scott Patterson (Crown Business). A
behind-the-scenes look at the turbulent lives of four quants,
including  Ken Griffin .  “The Rise and Fall of Bear Stearns” by  Alan C. Greenberg 
(Simon & Schuster). The former chairman, a self-described “bald
guy wearing a bowtie,” tells his side of the story.  “The Sugar King of Havana” by John Paul Rathbone (Penguin
Press). An evocative mixture of history and memoir that traces
the rise and fall of Cuban sugar magnate  Julio Lobo .  “13 Bankers” by  Simon Johnson  and James Kwak (Pantheon).
Unless too-big-to-fail banks are broken up, they will trigger
another meltdown, the authors say.  “War at the Wall Street Journal” by  Sarah Ellison 
(Houghton Mifflin Harcourt). An inside look at Rupert Murdoch’s
takeover.  “Zombie Economics” by John Quiggin (Princeton). Quiggin,
an Australian economist, guides us through the graveyard of
flawed concepts that underpinned the Great Credit Crackup.  ( James Pressley  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 James Pressley  in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 