-- Labor Pains Bedevil Emanuel in His Chicago Bid to Replace Daley
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2010-11-22T06:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/labor-pains-bedevil-emanuel-in-his-chicago-bid-to-replace-daley.html
Rahm Emanuel ’s relationship with
unions can make even the simplest question difficult: Is the
former White House chief of staff and Chicago mayoral candidate
a friend of labor?  “I’d rather not comment on that,” said  Tom Balanoff ,
president of the Illinois State Council of the  Service Employees
International Union , the state’s largest. That depends, he said,
on “how you define a friend.”  Winning labor support is central to Emanuel’s political
ambitions in a city where nine out of 10 municipal employees are
union members. About 250,000 of the third-largest U.S. city’s
2.8 million residents belong to unions, said Nick Kaleba, a
spokesman for the  Chicago Federation of Labor .  Yet Emanuel may have to target public workers for firings
or benefit reductions because Chicago faces escalating employee
costs that comprise  83 percent  of its $3.26 billion general
fund. The city’s repeated tapping of reserve funds to balance
its budget led Standard & Poor’s to cut Chicago’s credit rating
on Nov. 5 by one level to A+, the fifth highest grade.  Emanuel called for “shared sacrifice” by government
workers when questioned at a Nov. 19 news conference where he
accepted the endorsements of the local plumbers and pipe-fitters
unions.  “It’s not just one side taking it on the chin,” he said.
“We’re going to have to make tough choices.”  Labor Skeptics  Neither of those locals is among the largest unions
representing city workers, which have said they may not endorse
a candidate before the Feb. 22 election.  Labor’s distrust of Emanuel dates to his role in helping
President  Bill Clinton  get the union-opposed  North American Free
Trade Agreement  passed.  Those tensions re-emerged during the U.S. government’s 2009
efforts to boost the automotive industry and deal with the
 United Auto Workers  union.  “(Expletive) the UAW,” Emanuel, then President  Barack Obama ’s top aide, said during a White House meeting according to
an account in the book “ Overhaul ” by  Steven Rattner , the
former head of the automotive task force.  Asked at the news conference if Rattner quoted him
accurately, Emanuel said: “Yeah, and as you remember, the UAW
the next day, the president sent out a statement praising me for
the leadership of working by President Obama’s side to help make
the changes that were necessary.”  Friend or Foe  Such episodes leave some Chicago union leaders in Emanuel’s
hometown wondering if the former congressman from Illinois would
be a friend or foe.  “Rahm has had some clashes with labor,” said Balanoff,
whose 170,000-member union includes about 100,000 in Chicago.
“On the other hand, Rahm has helped move a lot of legislation
that labor has supported.”  Emanuel, 50, is seeking to replace retiring Mayor  Richard M. Daley . Other candidates include U.S. Representative  Danny Davis ; Illinois state Senator  James Meeks , minister of one of
Chicago’s largest churches; City Clerk Miguel del Valle; former
Chicago school board president  Gery Chico ; and former U.S.
senator and New Zealand Ambassador  Carol Moseley Braun .  Emanuel has lined up backing from executives of major
Chicago-area companies. A Nov. 15 fundraiser for him was co-
hosted by  Glenn Tilton ,  United Continental Holdings Inc. 
chairman, and  Miles White , chief executive officer of  Abbott
Laboratories , among others.  Unionized Workers  Illinois had a larger percentage of unionized workers --
17.5 percent -- than the national average of 12.3 percent in
2009, according to  data  from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Most union members in Illinois live in Chicago, where an
April 5 runoff will be held if no candidate gets more than 50
percent in the February election.  Daley, 68, said Sept. 7 that he wouldn’t seek re-election
to a seventh term. The City Council on Nov. 17 passed his 2011
budget of $6.15 billion, closing a $654 million deficit in part
by asking union workers to join non-union employees in taking
furlough days.  The labor challenge that Emanuel faces became clear two
days after Daley announced his retirement. A blog sponsored by
Balanoff’s union ran a  posting  entitled “The Case Against
Rahm.” It spotlighted his brushes with labor, spanning from his
role in helping pass Nafta in 1993 to his comment last year
about the UAW.  “Progress Illinois does function independently of us,”
Balanoff said when asked if the blog entry reflected his union’s
position on Emanuel’s run for mayor. “They raised issues that
people are concerned about.”  Doubts on Privatization  Emanuel, who resigned his White House post Oct. 1, recently
expressed reservations about the Daley administration’s long-
stalled plans for leasing Chicago’s Midway Airport to a private
company. That drew the admiration of labor leaders.  “Privatization was oversold and overdone under the
current administration,” said  Henry Bayer , executive director
of the Chicago council of the  American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees .  Emanuel also has said he  would  review the city’s garbage-
collection system in a process that could end in at least
partial privatization.  “A lot of people will act one way when they are a
legislator and a different way when they get into the executive
branch,” Bayer said. “So the question really is going to be
what’s the thrust of his policies as mayor.”  Animosity Lingers  Whoever wins the election will face lingering animosity.
Chicago police officers worked almost three years without a
contract before securing one in April. At one point during the
dispute, about 4,000 officers marched around City Hall chanting,
“Daley sucks.”  Emanuel’s labor quarrels were mostly before and after he
represented parts of Chicago’s north side and northwest suburbs
in Congress. During his six years as a lawmaker he compiled a
voting record that the AFL-CIO, the world’s largest labor
federation,  ranked  as 95 percent supportive of its positions.  “In the context of that, we would say, ‘That’s our
friend,’” Balanoff said.  Emanuel is now reaching out to labor. One of his first
campaign  stops , before formally announcing his candidacy, was at
a  Ford Motor Co.  assembly plant in Chicago, home to  United Auto
Workers Local 551 .  “I didn’t know about that comment,”  Carlo Bishop , the
union’s president, said when asked if anyone questioned Emanuel
about his slur of the union. Bishop said the brief visit
included no substantial conversation about labor issues.  Daley Ties  Emanuel worked with  William Daley , then special counsel to
the president, to get Nafta passed. Daley, a younger brother of
the mayor and one of Emanuel’s mentors, is now Midwest chairman
for  JPMorgan Chase & Co.   “A lot of us were not very happy about the role he played
in Nafta,” Bayer said.  Emanuel also clashed with labor during the debate over the
health-care overhaul when he was Obama’s chief of staff.  To try to boost his credentials, Emanuel’s campaign plans
to hold an event featuring Labor Secretary  Hilda Solis , who has
strong union ties.  Brian Rainville , executive director of the Teamsters union
in Chicago, said he expects his membership will be more
concerned about what Emanuel will do in the future.  “If Rahm becomes the mayor, he’s not going to be
negotiating with other nations on trade issues,” he said. “You
can’t let the past be an obstacle to the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net . 