-- Madagascar's Failed Coup Deals Fresh Blow to Economy Crippled by Crisis
-- B y   H a n n a h   M c N e i s h   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-11-22T13:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/madagascar-s-failed-coup-deals-fresh-blow-to-economy-crippled-by-crisis.html
Madagascar’s government hoped
last week’s referendum on a new constitution would ease the
nation’s political and economic isolation. Instead, a coup
attempt on the day of the vote plunged the economy deeper into
turmoil.  “It’s a step back,” Lydie Boka, the director of Lille-
based risk analysis group  StrategiCo ., said by phone on Nov. 19.
“In order for the EU or U.S. to come back there needs to be a
return to political stability.”  The European Union and the U.S. halted non-humanitarian aid
to Madagascar after President  Andry Rajoelina , a former DJ and
mayor of Antananarivo, the capital, seized power from his
predecessor  Marc Ravalomanana  with the help of the military in
March last year and later reneged on power-sharing agreements.
On Nov. 17, 20 senior officers turned against him, demanding
that he hand power to the army.  The withdrawal of aid, which represented two-thirds of the
Indian Ocean island nation’s budget, led the economy to contract
3.7 percent in 2009 and 2 percent this year, according to the
International Monetary Fund, making Madagascar the only African
economy to shrink this year.  The rebel officials held out at a military base near the
international airport north of Antananarivo for three days,
before it was stormed by troops loyal to the government on Nov.
20. There were no casualties, Defense Minister General Lucien
Rakotoarimasy said.  Rajoelina’s “yes” vote won the referendum with about 74
percent of the vote, according to preliminary results from the
National Independent Electoral Commission today. Voter turnout
was 53 percent, it said.  ‘Persistent’ Tensions  The coup attempt “illustrates the persistent economic,
social and security tensions,” EU foreign policy chief
 Catherine Ashton  said in a  statement  on Nov. 19.  The authorities detained 16 officers, including General
 Noel Rakotonandrasana  and Colonel Charles Andrianasoavina, who
announced the coup on Nov. 17, Colonel Richard Ravalomanana, the
head of security in the central region, including the capital,
said today by phone.  “In other African countries, even if they’re not
transparent, they’re predictable,” Robert Strauss, head of the
American Chamber of Commerce in Madagascar, said in an interview
from Antananarivo. “Here, it’s not clear what the rules are, or
who they apply to.”  Madagascar’s mineral and oil wealth has attracted companies
such as  Rio Tinto Plc ,  Total SA  and Toronto-based  Sherritt
International Corp. , which has a 40 percent stake in the $4.65
billion Ambatovy nickel project.  Nickel Gains  Nickel gained 3.5 percent to $21,550 per metric ton on the
London Metal Exchange on the day of the coup attempt on concern
the mine won’t start producing in the first half of next year as
planned. The metal gained a further 1.4 percent the next day and
was little changed on Nov. 19.  Last week’s uprising had no impact on the development plan
for the Ambatovy mine,  Koji Furui , a spokesman for Tokyo-based
 Sumitomo Corp. , which owns 27.5 percent of the project, said by
phone on Nov. 19.  Other projects are in limbo.  An oil exploration licensing round due to take place last
month has been delayed indefinitely. It will only be considered
when the government revises its petroleum code, which has been
put off since Rajoelina took power, Joeli Valerien
Lalaharisaina, general manager of the Office for National Mining
and Strategic Industries, said on Oct. 21.  Textile Factory  The U.S., which accounted for about $278 million of
Madagascar’s textile exports in 2008, has dropped the country
from the African Growth and Opportunity Act, which gives African
nations preferential access to the American market.  The K3 Apparel factory, which exported to the U.S., may
have to shut if the owners can’t find buyers in Europe for the
shirts and trousers it produces, Sanjay Chandran, the plant’s
general manager, said by phone. That would mean the loss of 450
jobs.  “If I get orders from elsewhere we will survive; if we
don’t we will have to shut,” said Chandran, a 36-year-old
Indian who’s been in Antananarivo for 10 years.  The EU in June scrapped a 588-million euro ($804-million)
aid package because Rajoelina refused to accept a compromise
with his political adversaries.  To deal with the economic crisis, the government in
September slashed its budget by 40 percent, cutting investment
while maintaining salaries for civil servants and soldiers.  China Investment  “The instability is not helping the economy, especially as
we can’t create some conditions like giving tax breaks to
investors,” Trade Minister Freddie Mahazoasy said in an
interview on Nov. 19. “Every dollar we get is being used to
support services for the people.”  Spurned by Europe and the U.S., Madagascar has been able to
attract investment from new partners such as China, according to
Adolfo Brizzi, the World Bank’s country manager in the country.
China’s Wuhan Iron & Steel Group earlier this year paid $100
million for iron-ore exploration rights in the country.  “The willingness of non-traditional donors and of Chinese
companies to expand their business in the present environment
despite uncertainties, offers the Government a partial
alternative to maintain some economic activities and sustain its
own costs,” Brizzi said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Opponents say the new constitution is aimed at extending
the rule of Rajoelina. The EU, U.S. and African Union, which
suspended Madagascar, don’t recognize Rajoelina’s leadership.  Lack of Transparency  The charter lowers the minimum age for presidential
candidates to 35 from 40, and forces all candidates to be
resident in Madagascar for six months before the vote, setting
Rajoelina up to run and disqualifying Ravalomanana. Elections
are scheduled for next year.  “The coup attempt is certainly not going to help restore
an investment climate friendly to the private sector and the
image of Madagascar on the international front has been further
tarnished,” the World Bank’s Brizzi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hannah McNeish  in Antananarivo via Johannesburg at 
1934 or  asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 