-- Thai GDP Expands at Slowest Pace in Three Quarters as Global Demand Eases
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2010-11-22T05:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/thai-gdp-expands-at-slowest-pace-in-three-quarters-as-global-demand-eases.html
Thailand’s economy grew at the
slowest pace in three quarters as exports eased and agriculture
declined, prompting the government to predict the central bank
will refrain from raising interest rates for the next year.  Gross domestic product rose 6.7 percent in the three months
through September from a year earlier, the state planning agency
know as the National Economic and Social Development Board said
in Bangkok today. That compared with the 7.2 percent median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 15 economists. The
economy grew a revised 9.2 percent in the second quarter.  “The data show there’s a chance of slowing down further,”
said  Pornthep Jubandhu , senior economist at Siam Commercial Bank
Pcl in Bangkok. “With global economic headwinds coming up, it
is likely that we will see GDP growth coming down.”  The  Bank of Thailand  in October kept its benchmark rate at
1.75 percent after raising it in July and August as Asia’s
policy makers sought to stem currency gains and shield their
economies from a slowdown in global expansion. The central bank
will probably keep borrowing costs unchanged in 2011 to counter
faltering growth, the economic development board said today.  The state planning agency, which releases separate growth
forecasts from the finance ministry and the central bank, said
it expects growth to slow to a range of 3.5 percent to 4.5
percent next year from 7.9 percent in 2010. It previously
forecast an expansion of 7 percent to 7.5 percent this year.  Supporting Growth  The economy shrank 0.2 percent in the third quarter from
the previous three months, the government said today. That
compared with the median estimate for a 0.3 percent contraction
in a Bloomberg News survey of 11 economists.  “We expect the central bank to hold the rate at 1.75
percent through next year,”  Arkhom Termpittayapaisith , newly
appointed secretary-general at the board, said in Bangkok today.
“We expect economic growth to slow down next year and we think
the central bank should share the same view. We still need low
interest rates to accommodate economic growth.”  Still, policy makers may need to weigh the need to support
growth against the risk that inflation will accelerate as they
prepare to review monetary policy on Dec. 1. World food prices
climbed to the highest level in more than two years in October,
according to the United Nations’ Food and Agriculture
Organization.  Inflationary Pressure  “Although we do expect the Thai economy to grow more
slowly from here, it’s worth noting that the growth is seen to
remain fairly robust,”  Wellian Wiranto , an economist at HSBC
Holdings Plc in Singapore, said before the release. A quarter-
percentage-point rate increase next month would be “a good
balance between nipping any potential future inflationary
pressure in the bud and the need to also guard against
unexpected growth slowdown.”  Thailand’s benchmark  stock index  gained 1.1 percent to
1,019.84 at 11:52 a.m. in Bangkok. The baht climbed 0.2 percent
to 29.91 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Central bank Governor  Prasarn Trairatvorakul  said Nov. 18
that monetary policy, while focused on inflation, will be
flexible amid rapid changes in the global situation. The risk of
faster inflation next year is due to supply, not demand, so
interest rates wouldn’t be the right tool, Arkhom said.  Thai  export growth  slowed to 15.7 percent in October, the
slowest pace in a year, a report showed last week, and the baht
has appreciated more than 11 percent this year, the best
performance in Asia, raising concern that Thailand’s goods may
become more expensive relative to its regional rivals.  Baht Concerns  Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said Nov. 12 he is “still
worried” about gains in the baht, which earlier this month
strengthened to the highest level in 13 years.  General Motors
Co ., Ford Motor Co. and  Siam Cement Pcl  are among companies that
cited the currency as a threat to shipments from Thailand, an
exporter of cars, rice and electronics.  Thai  consumer confidence  fell for the first time in six
months in October as the baht surged and the nation’s worst
floods in five decades devastated agricultural land, a report
showed this month. The flooding may curb Thai GDP growth this
year by 0.3 percentage point, Arkhom said today.  Agriculture contracted 3.3 percent in the third quarter
after wetter-than-normal weather reduced production of rice,
cassava, maize and palm oil, the government said.  Investment Recovers  The central bank has said that private investment has
recovered and will help partially offset weakening shipments.
 Amata Corp. , the nation’s biggest industrial-estate developer,
said Nov. 15 foreign investors have returned to invest in
Thailand as tensions eased after the nation’s worst political
violence in 18 years, which occurred in April and May.  “Next year may be even better for investment,” said
 Viboon Kromadit , Amata’s chief operating officer. “If we can
maintain political stability, everything will be just fine.”  “The risks are still at the global level, how things will
pan out in European countries and in the U.S.,” said  Isara Ordeedolchest , an economist at KTB Securities Ltd. in
Bangkok. “The story for Thailand for the next year or two will
focus on domestic demand, private consumption and investment. We
cannot expect more from exports because there is some slowing
down in European countries and the U.S. is still recovering.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  