-- Taipei's Industrial Vacancy to Decline as Companies Expands, Colliers Says
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2010-11-22T01:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/taipei-s-industrial-vacancy-to-decline-as-companies-expands-colliers-says.html
Taipei’s vacancy rates for
industrial space leased to large overseas companies including
 Samsung Electronics Co.  may drop as tenants expand and as
Taiwan’s economy improves, according to  Colliers International .  The vacancy rate for so-called high-specification
industrial buildings, or those rented to multinational companies
that each take at least 10,000 square feet of space, may fall to
15 percent next year from 18.5 percent at the end of September,
the property research company said.  More companies signed leases at the Neihu Technology Park
in the eastern part of the capital as they expanded or moved
from the central business district, where rents are higher,
Colliers said. About 674,000 square feet of space, equivalent to
12 football fields, were rented in Neihu between April and
September, it said.  “There will be continued demand for such buildings in
Neihu because the rent is lower and the quality of the property
is decent,” said Jason Hung, a Taipei-based senior manager at
Colliers.  Other than Samsung, the world’s largest maker of memory
chips, televisions and flat screens, tenants at the Neihu park
also include  LG Display Co. , Nvidia Corp. and Sony Ericsson
Mobile Communications AB, Hung said.  The expansion is part of the government’s plan to develop
the eastern outskirts of Taipei by luring employers out of the
capital’s downtown. Taiwan’s technology companies, which make
products including Sony Corp.’s Nintendo and Apple Inc.’s
iPhones and iPads, have expanded as orders increased.  ‘Stagnant’ Rents  Rents rose 0.3 percent to NT$31.14 ($1.03) per square foot
in September from March, the report said. Rent increases may be
“stagnant” for the next 12 months as the excess space is taken
up, with gains for the next year capped at 3 percent, it said.  About NT$9.14 billion of these industrial properties were
sold in the six months to September, Colliers said. Buyers
included  Fubon Life Insurance Co. ,  Gintech Energy Corp.  and
 United Microelectronics Co.   Taiwan’s economy expanded 9.8 percent in the three months
through September from a year earlier, after climbing a revised
12.86 percent in the second quarter, the statistics bureau said
in Taipei on Nov. 18. The  median  estimate in a Bloomberg News
 survey  of 17 economists was for an 8.34 percent expansion.  Hewlett-Packard Co. , the world’s largest computer maker,
officially opened its new Taiwan headquarters on Oct. 11, taking
10,000 pings (355,747 square feet) at the Nankang Software Park
in Taipei’s east. Yahoo! Inc. will lease more than 30,000 square
meters (322,920 square feet) when it moves to the site in
December, raising the foreign tenancy in the latest of three
buildings in the project to 68 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Taipei at 
 Wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  