-- Airbus Production Chief Quits as Planemaker Struggles With Delays in A350
-- B y   B e n e d i k t   K a m m e l   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2010-11-22T17:29:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/airbus-production-chief-quits-as-planemaker-struggles-with-delays-in-a350.html
Airbus SAS said Gerald Weber will
leave as production chief after four years, entrusting his
successor from outside the aircraft manufacturer with the task
of keeping the new A350 wide-body jet on schedule.  Airbus, based in Toulouse, France, has already identified a
manager from outside the company and will announce the
appointment at the start of next year, the company said in a
statement today. “It is time for me to move on,” Weber, 61,
said in the statement. Weber will stay on until the end of
March, when he’ll have completed four years, to help his
successor with the transition, Airbus said.  The departure of Weber, an engineer and former manager in
the automotive industry, coincides with Airbus falling behind on
its production schedule for the A350, an aircraft made up
largely from composite materials that will compete with Boeing
Co.’s 787 Dreamliner as well as its 777. Airbus said Nov.
12 that first delivery of the long-range aircraft may slip into
the latter part of 2013.  “I am looking forward to introducing my successor to the
international Airbus manufacturing team, our fascinating
products and our great challenges ahead,” Weber said in the
statement.  Under Control  Even while giving itself more time to get the first A350
ready, pushing promised delivery from July 2013 to sometime in
the second half of that year, Airbus managers including Chief
Operating Officer  Fabrice Bregier  indicated to about 50 analysts
at an investor forum last week in Toulouse that they were upbeat
about keeping the program under control. They said they learned
lessons from Airbus’s A380, whose delivery schedule is running
three years behind original schedules.  “It looks like they may have avoided a lot of the pitfalls
that the A380 or 787 fell into,” said  Nick Cunningham , an
analyst at Agency Partners in London.  “They’ve not offered too much customization on the plane,
they haven’t got an aggressive ramp-up, and they’ve got plenty
of time for the flight tests, which suggests that there’s only
one major risk -- the technology risk around carbon fiber
structures, and that’s what Bregier was feeling optimistic
about,” Cunningham said. “If true, I think they may be over
the worst risk on the A350.”  Separately, Airbus announced today that one of its biggest
suppliers, Spirit Aerosystems, completed the curing of one of
the panels that make up the longest section of the A350’s all-
carbon fiber fuselage. The structure, the "crown" panel of the
plane’s center fuselage, measures 19.7 meters (64.6 feet) in
length and 77 square meters (829 square feet) altogether.  Creative, Stubborn  Weber, who has a pilot license, joined Airbus in April 2007
after working at companies including Daimler AG, a core
shareholder in Airbus parent European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co.  The manager, who splits his work time between Hamburg,
Toulouse and regional production centers in Germany, France and
Spain, said he’s taken workers to study production at Porsche AG
and Volkswagen AG factories to improve efficiency.  Weber is one of 10 managers who make up the Airbus
 executive committee  around Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders .  “We will miss his engineering creativity, his exemplary
dedication to Airbus and his well-dosed Swabian stubbornness,”
Enders said, referring to the region around Stuttgart, southern
Germany. Enders himself is from the Westerwald region, in the
western part of the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Rothman  in Toulouse, France, at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 