-- Growth in Thailand, Malaysia Slows, Heralding Caution in Asian Rate Moves
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2010-11-23T03:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/malaysian-economy-expands-at-slowest-pace-this-year-as-asian-growth-eases.html
Thailand and Malaysia’s economies
expanded the least in three quarters, adding to signs of a
moderating Asian rebound that may prompt policy makers to slow
interest-rate increases.  Gross domestic product in Thailand, Southeast Asia’s
largest economy after Indonesia, increased 6.7 percent in the
three months through September from a year earlier, after
growing 9.2 percent in the second quarter, the government said
yesterday. Malaysia’s  economy  expanded 5.3 percent last quarter,
compared with an 8.9 percent rate in the previous three months,
its central bank said.  The slowdown in growth backs the decisions by Thai and
Malaysian policy makers in refraining from raising interest
rates at their most recent meetings to support the economies.
While Asia’s growth is still outpacing the rest of the world,
sovereign credit woes in Europe have reemerged with Ireland
becoming the second euro country to seek a rescue and the U.S.
Federal Reserve renewing a plan to buy Treasuries.  “It’s clear that the uncertainties in global demand are
weighing on export-oriented Asian economies and we may see the
slowdown continue into 2011,” said  Gundy Cahyadi , an economist
at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in Singapore. “Policy makers
will be more cautious about tightening monetary policy.”  A report this week may show that Philippine  growth  eased to
7.3 percent in the third quarter from a three-year high of 7.9
percent in the previous three months, according to the median
estimate of 16 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Currencies Gain  The Thai baht and the Malaysian ringgit are the best-
performing currencies in Asia this year excluding Japan, boosted
by capital that is lured to the region by the possibility of
higher returns. Thailand’s benchmark  stock index  this month
reached the highest level since October 1996, while Malaysia’s
 FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index  rose to a record.  Thailand’s growth slowed as exports eased and agricultural
output declined, prompting the government to predict the central
bank will refrain from raising interest rates for the next year.
The  Bank of Thailand  in October kept its benchmark rate at 1.75
percent after raising it in July and August.  The central bank will probably keep borrowing costs
unchanged in 2011 to counter faltering growth, the economic
development board said yesterday.  Moderating Growth  Barclays Plc expects Thai “export growth to continue to
ease over the next six months, consistent with weaker global
demand and the slowing in the global electronics cycle,” said
 Rahul Bajoria , its Singapore-based economist. “We believe the
central bank is likely to take a gradual approach to policy
normalization.”  Malaysia will probably see moderating growth going into the
first quarter of 2011, central bank Governor  Zeti Akhtar Aziz 
said yesterday. The economy will “strengthen” in the second
half of next year, she told reporters in Kuala Lumpur.  “While the exports engine is likely to falter, domestic
demand remains resilient” in Malaysia, said  Alvin Liew , a
Singapore-based economist at Standard Chartered Plc. “The data
remains consistent with our view that Bank Negara will pause
rate hikes for now.”  Malaysia’s policy makers next meet in January to decide on
borrowing costs. They left the  overnight policy rate , or OPR, at
2.75 percent in September and November after raising it three
times since early March.  Inflation Estimate  “We don’t see inflation as a major threat,” Zeti said
yesterday when asked whether growth or price pressures was the
bigger challenge for policy makers next year. “We believe the
current level of the OPR is very supportive of economic
activity.”  The  inflation  rate probably climbed in October to 1.9
percent, according to the median estimate of 15 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead of a report from the statistics
department tomorrow.  Zeti said economic growth will probably be between 6
percent and 7 percent this year.  Malaysia’s exports, which include IOI Corp.’s palm oil and
Intel Corp.’s computer chips, rose at the slowest pace in 10
months in September as shipments to the U.S. and China eased.
Its manufacturing industry grew 7.5 percent in the third quarter
from a year earlier, the slowest pace this year, and exports of
goods and services gained 6.6 percent, half the pace of the
previous three months, according to yesterday’s report.  ‘Still Worried’  The U.S. Federal Reserve said this month it will purchase
$600 billion of Treasuries to spur the world’s largest economy,
a move that policy makers from Asia to South America said could
depress the dollar and spark capital flight to emerging markets.  Thai Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said Nov. 12 he is
“still worried” about gains in the baht, which earlier this
month strengthened to the highest level in 13 years. The country
last month removed a 15 percent tax exemption for foreigners on
income from domestic bonds and Bank of Thailand Governor  Prasarn Trairatvorakul  said Oct. 21 the bank is studying additional
measures to reduce the volatility of the baht.  Malaysia reiterated yesterday it has no plans to restrict
capital flows. The ringgit has climbed about 8 percent against
the dollar in the past year, while Thailand’s baht gained more
than 10 percent and Indonesia’s rupiah about 6 percent.  “We are in a position to monitor and detect any emerging
risks,” Zeti said. “At this point in time, conditions are
manageable. We are certainly not considering any sort of
restrictive measures.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
 Ranjeetha Pakiam  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  