-- Amgen Holder Invesco Says Potential Actelion Deal Not `Hugely Compelling'
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 2010-11-22T23:52:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/amgen-holder-invesco-says-potential-actelion-deal-not-hugely-compelling-.html
Amgen  Inc. shareholder Invesco Ltd.
isn’t impressed with Swiss drugmaker Actelion Ltd. as a buyout
target for the company, said fund manager  Derek Taner .  Amgen, the world’s largest biotechnology company, is
considering a takeover offer for Actelion to gain new medicines
for cardiovascular diseases, two people with knowledge of the
matter said last week.  Amgen revenue fell last year as its top-selling Enbrel for
rheumatoid arthritis has declined amid new competition and
anemia drugs Aranesp and Epogen dropped for the fourth straight
year after being linked to heart attacks. Actelion may generate
$2.1 billion by 2015 from its blood-pressure drug Tracleer, as
well as added sales from two similar drugs in final-stage tests,
said  Olav Zilian , an analyst with Helvea AG, in a Nov. 16
telephone interview.  “We looked at Actelion a couple of times as an investment
idea and I don’t see what’s hugely compelling,” Taner said
today in a telephone interview.  Actelion’s experimental late-stage drugs “aren’t no-
brainers,” Taner said. “There is risk to them, and attempts to
extend patent life for new and improved molecules isn’t as easy
as it used to be.”  Invesco held 12.9 million Amgen shares, about a 1.4 percent
stake, as of Sept. 30, according to Bloomberg data.  Shares Fall  Amgen shares fell 26 cents to $54.74 at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq
Stock Market composite  trading . Actelion fell 1.6 percent at the
close of Zurich trading.  Paul Wagner , a fund manager and health-care research
analyst at RCM Capital Management in San Francisco, also
expressed doubts about an Amgen acquisition of Actelion. The
deal would carry “significant risk in terms of clinical
development, commercial success and ultimately investor
confidence in management,” he said today in an e-mail. RCM
Capital Management had 3.2 million Amgen shares as of Sept. 30,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I would prefer to see smaller, earlier stage
acquisitions” rather than purchases of companies with
commercial stage products, Wagner said. “Likewise, if Amgen is
looking to expand in emerging markets I would prefer to see that
done more organically as opposed to large, potentially expensive
and risky bolt-on type acquisitions.”  Amgen spokesman  David Polk , in a telephone conversation
today, declined to comment on a potential acquisition or
shareholders’ reactions to it.  Expansion Outside U.S.  Amgen may use acquisitions to expand outside the U.S., and
to gain products in areas beyond its current focus in cancer and
immunology,  Roger Perlmutter , Amgen’s executive vice president
for research and development, said in a Nov. 15 telephone
interview.  “When we look out at the world, we would like to expand
our programs to other countries where we’re relatively narrow,”
Perlmutter said. “A company that has an effective R&D
organization in an area where we have not been active -- such as
cardiology, neuroscience or infectious disease -- also might
make sense.”  Amgen had about  $17 billion  in cash and short-term
investments as of Sept. 30. Over the past five years, Amgen has
announced seven purchases with an average value of $561.4
million and an average premium of 32 percent. Its biggest deal
during that time period was the $2.1 billion purchase of Abgenix
Inc. in 2005, which gave Amgen the cancer drug Vectibix.  ‘Emerging Market’  Taner said he would prefer to see Amgen buy companies
that have sales forces and other capacities in emerging markets
that could help Amgen sell its drugs. Such companies might
include  UCB SA  of Brussels,  Ipsen SA  of Paris and  Almirall SA  of
Barcelona.  Actelion doesn’t “have an emerging markets presence I
would want to see Amgen try to buy,” Taner said.  Spokesmen for Ipsen, UCB and Almirall didn’t return phone
messages seeking comment left after regular business hours.  Actelion got about 85 percent of its revenue last year from
Tracleer, which has dominated the market for pulmonary arterial
hypertension, or PAH, since it won approval in 2001. The
medicine generated 1.51 billion Swiss francs ($1.52 billion) in
sales in 2009.  PAH is a potentially fatal condition that causes high blood
pressure in the artery moving blood from the heart to the lungs.
Tracleer works by blocking the hormone endothelin, which is
elevated in the plasma and lung tissue of people with pulmonary
hypertension. Endothelin is a potent blood vessel constrictor
that plays a role in other illnesses including kidney disease
and cancer.  Actelion also has four compounds in third and final stage of
tests generally needed for regulatory approval. Two of those
experimental medicines, macitentan and selexipag, are designed
to treat PAH.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  