-- Anglo American to Sell Its Queensland Steam Coal Mine
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2010-11-22T16:56:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/anglo-american-to-sell-callide-thermal-coal-mine-in-queensland-australia.html
Anglo American Plc. , the third-
largest producer of steelmaking coal, plans to dispose of its
Callide thermal coal mine in central Queensland, Australia,
adding to at least six other coal assets it’s selling.  “The Callide mine does not align with our growth
strategy,” the London-based company said in a statement today.
Anglo plans to grow its “metallurgical coal and high margin
export thermal coal” business in Australasia.  Anglo said in July it will sell its interests in five
undeveloped steel and thermal coal assets in Australia for $500
million. The company is also selling its stake in the Peace
River metallurgical coal assets in Canada.  Callide, which supplies power plants, produced 8.8 million
metric tons last year and has a resource base of more than 1
billion tons, Anglo said. Metallurgical coal is used to make
steel, while thermal coal fires power plants. Anglo said on
Sept. 3 that it’s seeking acquisitions in countries including
Russia, Mongolia, Indonesia and Mozambique to more than double
production of steel-making coal to meet rising Asian demand.  Global steel output may climb to a record 1.43 million tons
this year and jump another 7 percent next year, Macquarie Group
Ltd. analyst  Colin Hamilton  said on Oct. 11.  ArcelorMittal , the
world’s largest steelmaker, and rivals including POSCO are
looking to acquire metallurgical coal reserves.  Anglo, which had debt of $10.9 billion in June, is also
selling assets from steel plants to phosphates as part of a plan
to dispose of “non-core” assets.  The company  fell  50 pence, or 1.7 percent, to 2,889 pence
by the 4:30 p.m. close of trading in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Victoria Batchelor at 
 vbatchelor@bloomberg.net  