-- Hevesi Ex-Adviser Morris Pleads Guilty in Cuomo Pension Corruption Probe
-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 2010-11-22T21:35:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/hank-morris-tells-new-york-judge-he-agrees-to-plead-guilty-to-felony-count.html
Former political consultant  Henry “Hank” Morris  pleaded guilty to securities fraud in a probe of
corruption at the state pension fund by New York Attorney
General  Andrew Cuomo  that has also spawned litigation against
Quadrangle Group LLC co-founder  Steven Rattner .  Morris, once chief political adviser to former Comptroller
 Alan Hevesi , admitted today in state court in Manhattan that the
investment process at the New York pension fund was manipulated
to benefit him, his associates and contributors to Hevesi’s
campaign. The crime carries a maximum sentence of 1 1/3 to 4
years in prison or as little as no jail time. Morris also agreed
to forfeit $19 million he reaped in fees.  Morris is the eighth person to plead guilty in connection
with “pay-to-play” at the New York pension fund, recently valued
at $132.8 billion. In October, Hevesi admitted to receiving a
reward for official misconduct. Last week, Cuomo sued Rattner,
accusing him of arranging kickbacks to Morris.  David Loglisci , chief investment officer of the state fund
under Hevesi, pleaded guilty in March for sometimes ceding his
authority to Morris to suggest which money managers received so-
called alternative investments from the pension fund. Those
investments have included hedge funds, private equity and
venture capital.  “David Loglisci and Alan Hevesi recommended and approved
certain proposed alternative investments in part so as to
generate fees to me,” Morris told the judge today.  Morris received $19 million in fees through 23 state
pension-fund investments for which he acted as an undisclosed
placement agent, or middleman, according to Cuomo.  ‘Millions of Dollars’  Morris said he “stood to receive millions of dollars in
fees” when the pension fund made certain investments that
Loglisci and Hevesi approved. He also said that he sought
contributions to the comptroller’s re-election campaign from
people doing business with or seeking to do business with the
pension fund.  He admitted to similar conduct involving state transactions
beyond those specified in the single count of the indictment
covered by his plea.  He named about 19 investments that generated fees. He
pleaded guilty to the count related to fees for the investment
of pension fund assets by Aldus/NY Emerging Fund in Levine
Leichtman Capital Partners III.  Sentencing Date  Sentencing is set for Feb. 1. Cuomo’s office agreed not to
specify a term of incarceration, if it recommends prison at all.
The judge said he hadn’t yet decided on a punishment. Hevesi,
who hasn’t been sentenced, may also avoid prison time.  Morris is permanently barred from engaging in any business
related to the purchase or sale of securities in New York and
the rendering of investment advice to or from the public.  He also can’t solicit or receive investments from any
government entity within the state or obtain employment or
contracts with a state government entity or a firm that provides
consulting to the state.  Stone asked prosecutors why he should accept the deal when
Morris faced more than 70 charges, including a felony with a
potential sentence of 8 1/3 to 25 years.  Ellen Biben , the special deputy attorney general for public
integrity, told the judge that Morris’s plea established “once
and for all that his conduct wasn’t just unethical, but was
criminal.”  $158 Million Paid  Aside from the eight guilty pleas, three individuals and 16
firms have settled with Cuomo in his probe of the pension fund,
including Quadrangle. With Morris’s restitution, Cuomo said more
than $158 million will be paid to the state through the probe.  Elliott Broidy, founder of Markstone Capital Partners, who
pleaded guilty to making illegal payments to obtain favors from
pension fund officials, agreed last year to forfeit $18 million.  David Leuschen, founder of the private-equity firm
Riverstone Holdings LLC, agreed in December to pay $20 million
in a civil settlement to resolve his role.  Cuomo, who is New York’s governor-elect, sued Rattner
seeking at least $26 million and his immediate lifetime ban from
the securities industry in New York.  Rattner caused Quadrangle to pay kickbacks to Morris, and
at his direction, to obtain $150 million in investments from the
New York state pension fund, according to the securities fraud
suit. Rattner settled a parallel probe with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission for $6.2 million and a two-year ban from
associating with broker-dealers or investment advisers.  “While settling with the SEC begins the process of putting
this matter behind me, I will not be bullied simply because the
attorney general’s office prefers political considerations
instead of a reasoned assessment of the facts,” Rattner said in
an e-mailed statement at the time.  The case is People v. Morris, 0025/2009, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York State Supreme Court at 
5387 or  kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 