-- Apple Introduces Updated Operating System for IPad
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2010-11-22T22:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/apple-introduces-updated-operating-system-for-ipad-iphone.html
Lost your iPhone? There’s now a free
app for that.  Apple Inc.  released a version of its mobile operating
system that helps users locate and lock missing devices. The
update, called iOS 4.2, also brings features that had been
available on the iPhone and iPod Touch to the iPad, including
multitasking and folders for organizing applications.  Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs , who showed off some of
the features in September, aims to woo holiday shoppers with the
update. The new software includes a feature for printing
wirelessly from  Apple  mobile devices through a Wi-Fi network.
With the iPad’s multitasking function, users can switch between
applications without turning them off.  “IOS 4.2 makes the iPad a completely new product, just in
time for the holiday season,” Jobs said today in a statement.  The iPad, which went on sale in April, accounted for about
14 percent of Apple’s  revenue  last quarter. The device
established a market for tablet computers that blend the
capabilities of a smartphone and notebook computer, leading
rivals such as Samsung Electronics Co. and  Research In Motion
Ltd.  to introduce competing models.  Lost and Found  Apple’s Find My iPhone feature is available as a free
download from the company’s App Store. It helps people locate
their iPhones, iPads and iPod Touches on a map and play a sound
when lost. Users can remotely lock or wipe all the data from
lost devices, Apple said. The feature, which works with the
latest versions of the devices, was previously available as part
of Apple’s $99-a-year MobileMe subscription.  The new operating system, available today, can be
downloaded from Apple’s iTunes.  The update also adds Game Center to the iPad, a feature
that had been available on the iPhone and iPod Touch. It lets
gamers post scores to leader boards or challenge other owners of
Apple mobile devices.  Apple  rose $6.63, or 2.2 percent, to $313.36 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have
climbed 49 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  