-- Harrah's Shows Debt Matters as Big Deals Miss IPO Rebound
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y   a n d   M i c h a e l   T s a n g
-- 2010-11-22T22:23:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/harrah-s-shows-leverage-matters-as-largest-buyouts-miss-out-on-ipo-rebound.html
Harrah’s Entertainment Inc.’s failed
$531 million initial public offering in this year’s biggest week
for U.S. IPOs shows buyout firms will need more than a rising
stock market to sell some of their largest investments.  Harrah’s , the world’s biggest casino operator, last week
became the first private equity-backed company to pull its U.S.
IPO after setting a price range in six months, citing market
conditions. Carlyle Group’s Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp.,
TPG Capital’s and Hellman & Friedman LLC’s  LPL Investment
Holdings Inc. , and Aeroflex Holding Corp., owned by Golden Gate
Capital, Veritas Capital and a fund run by Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., all went public.  A 16 percent  gain  in U.S. stocks since the end of June has
helped buyout firms sell shares in a dozen of their companies,
with 10 trading above their IPO price, compared with less than
half of those that went public in the first six months. Some of
the biggest deals of the buyout boom, including Harrah’s and
Toys “R” Us Inc., are still waiting.  HCA Inc. , which KKR & Co.
and Bain Capital LLC plan to take public, earlier this month
decided to pay its owners a $2 billion dividend financed with
$1.53 billion in new debt.  “A rising tide floats all boats unless there’s a hole in
the ship,” said  Paul Schaye , managing partner of Chestnut Hill
Partners, a New York-based firm that helps private-equity firms
identify targets. “Investors are more discerning on the buy
side. When there’s been something fundamentally done to the
business, that’s when you see the upside.”  IPO Rebound  Private-equity firms pool money from investors and obtain
debt to finance takeovers with the intention of divesting the
companies later for a profit. Those profits typically are
realized through sales to corporations or another investor, or
by selling shares to the public.  Harrah’s withdrawal suggests investors are still is
inhospitable to private-equity IPOs of portfolio companies that
are highly leveraged or whose outlook is too dependent on the
economy. The bigger companies need to prove they can still
increase revenue and profits, a tough sell in a shaky economy,
especially for companies geared toward consumers like Harrah’s
and Toys “R” Us, said  Steven Kaplan , a professor at the
University of Chicago Booth School of Business.  “What do IPO investors want to see? A growth story,”
Kaplan said. “If you’re one of the big behemoths, it’s hard to
give them that. You need a strong economy.”  Metals USA  Metals USA Holdings Corp. , the Fort Lauderdale, Florida-
based metals processor controlled by  Leon Black ’s Apollo Global
Management LLC, suffered one of the largest declines among
private equity-backed IPOs this year, falling 35 percent since
its $240 million offering in April. That compares with a 1
percent gain in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  over the same
span.  Private equity-backed IPOs have fared better in the second
half as the S&P 500 rebounded. The 12 U.S. companies that buyout
firms have taken public since July have gained 24 percent on
average, the data show. Only one, Carlyle Group’s  Coresite
Realty Corp. , has dropped.  General Motors Co. last week raised more than $20 billion
selling common and preferred stock in the second-biggest U.S.
IPO ever. The stock rose as much as 9 percent during its first
day of trading.  Harrah’s, which had planned to change its name to Caesars
Entertainment Corp. ahead of the IPO, was scheduled to sell 31.3
million shares for $15 to $17. The company, which was taken
private by Apollo and TPG in a leveraged buyout in 2008, had
more debt relative to  cash flow  than any private equity-backed
company that sold shares this year except one, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Apollo Holdings  Harrah’s had $18.39 billion more debt than cash at the end
of September and generated $1.13 billion in  earnings  before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the first nine
months of 2010, according to its prospectus. That would give
Harrah’s a net debt-to-Ebitda ratio of 12.2 over a full year,
more than triple the average of 3.93 for private equity-backed
IPOs this year.  Booz Allen , LPL and Aeroflex all had less than half the net
debt relative to Ebitda as Harrah’s did, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The only private-equity backed company with a higher net
debt-to-Ebitda ratio that completed an IPO this year was  Noranda
Aluminum Holding Corp. , backed like Harrah’s and Metals USA by
Apollo.  Noranda Debt  Noranda, based in Franklin, Tennessee, has 15.3 times as
much net debt as its Ebitda in the past 12 months, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Investors extracted a 50 percent discount on
the asking price from Apollo in Noranda’s $92 million offering
in May, which raised 66 percent less than the buyout firm
sought.  Buyers in the IPO have since been  rewarded  with a 54
percent increase in the value of Noranda’s shares.  Harrah’s has “a massive amount of debt,” said  Timothy Cunningham , a money manager at Santa Fe, New Mexico-based
Thornburg Investment Management, which oversees about $70
billion. “Generally with private equity, they take it private,
they try to improve operations. But this company, they really
hadn’t been private very long, there weren’t a lot of material
improvements, it just didn’t look very attractive.”  Harrah’s profit before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization fell 8.7 percent to $553.7 million in its most
recent quarter on sales that were  little changed  at $2.29
billion.  Paulson’s Stake  John Paulson , the hedge-fund manager who made $15 billion
in 2007 betting on the decline in subprime mortgages, won the
right to be the first equity holder to register and possibly
sell his stock as part of his hedge fund’s swap of debt for
equity with Harrah’s. The casino company filed for the IPO in
October, two months after it filed to register Paulson’s shares.  Harrah’s filed an amended registration today to reflect the
potential sale of Paulson’s shares. Paulson and his affiliates
may sell as much as 7.1 million shares, or 9.9 percent of
Harrah’s shares outstanding, according to the filing.  None of the private-equity owners of LPL and Booz Allen
sold shares in last week’s IPOs. Firms including New York-based
KKR have taken companies such as  Dollar General Corp.  public
during the past year and sold shares in secondary offerings once
the stock traded up.  The S&P 500 gained 16 percent from the start of the second
half through last week, as corporate profits rose and concern
abated that the U.S. economy may enter a second recession. The
U.S. Federal Reserve’s decision to buy $600 billion in
Treasuries has helped lift asset prices.  Better ‘Visibility’  “I think people feel they have a better handle on forward
visibility now than they did at the beginning of the year as it
relates to the business climate,” said  Michael Littenberg , a
partner at Schulte Roth & Zabel LLP in New York.  Booz Allen, owned by Carlyle Group,  increased  13 percent on
Nov. 17, its first day of trading after raising $238 million
selling shares at $17 apiece, the low end of the price range.
The stock fell 7 cents, or 0.4 percent, to $19.43 on Nov. 19,
leaving it 14 percent above the offer price.  The government consulting firm’s sales rose 8 percent from
a year ago to $2.71 billion in the six months ended Sept. 30.
Net income more than doubled to $43 million, according to a
filing.  TPG, the private-equity firm run by  David Bonderman  and
 James Coulter , and Hellman & Friedman bought about 60 percent of
Boston-based brokerage firm LPL in 2005.  Net income  for the nine
months ended September 30 more than doubled to $59.7 million,
according to filings.  Expansion Efforts  The owners have overseen an expansion of the business, with
the number of advisers growing at an annual rate of 15 percent.
The company in July agreed to acquire some assets of National
Retirement Partners Inc., a consultant to retirement plan
sponsors.  LPL  priced  its shares at $30 each, the top of its range,
and the stock gained 7.2 percent on its first day of trading.
The shares rose 1.4 percent on Nov. 19, closing at $32.60 in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Aeroflex, a maker of semiconductors and testing equipment,
was taken private in August 2007. The company’s revenue
increased 20 percent to $155.9 million in the quarter ended
Sept. 30 and the  net loss  for that period narrowed to $5.8
million from $20.5 million, according to government filings.  The stock was unchanged at $13.50 on its first day of
trading. Aeroflex climbed 59 cents, or 4.4 percent, to $14.09
today at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Toys ‘R’ Us  Pending IPOs include  Toys “R” Us , the world’s biggest toy
retailer, which filed in May to go public and has since sold
loans to pay down existing debt. Proceeds from the public
offering of the Wayne, New Jersey-based company would further
that effort, Standard & Poor’s analysts wrote in a Nov. 19 note
to clients.  Nielsen Holdings BV, owned by KKR, Carlyle,  Blackstone
Group LP  and Thomas H. Lee Partners LP, filed for an IPO in
June. The television-audience rating company, with headquarters
in New York, in August raised the limit on the offering to $2.01
billion.  HCA, the hospital chain acquired four years ago in a $33
billion leveraged buyout, filed in May for an IPO to raise as
much as $4.6 billion. The company said this month it plans to
pay a $2 billion dividend to its owners.  So far this year, 61 companies in the U.S. withdrew or
postponed initial public offerings.  Harrah’s was the first private equity-backed company to
postpone or withdraw an offering after setting a price range
since Americold Realty Trust, owned by billionaire  Ron Burkle ’s
Yucaipa Cos., shelved its deal in May, data compiled by
Bloomberg and Greenwich, Connecticut-based Renaissance Capital
LLC showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Kelly  in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  in New York at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 