-- Massey Energy’s Board Orders Review of ‘Strategic Alternatives’
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2010-11-22T23:54:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/massey-energy-said-to-begin-process-to-explore-sale-of-coal-mining-company.html
Massey Energy Co. , owner of the West
Virginia mine where 29 people died in April, said its board of
directors ordered a review of strategic alternatives “to
enhance  shareholder value ,” a process that may lead to sale of
the company.  A special committee of the board “will advise and report”
to the directors on the effort, Richmond, Virginia-based Massey
said in a statement today. Perella Weinberg Partners LP was
retained as financial adviser and Cravath Swaine & Moore LLP as
legal adviser for the committee, the company said.  The producer has received some detailed offers with
specific bids from companies such as  Alpha Natural Resources
Inc. , along with approaches from several others companies
including  ArcelorMittal SA , according to two people with
knowledge of the matter.  Arch Coal Inc.  and  Consol Energy Inc. 
also expressed interest in acquiring Massey, said these people,
who declined to be identified because the matter is private.  Massey, the largest coal producer in Central Appalachia,
owns 2.8 billion tons of reserves, 1.3 billion of which are
metallurgical coal, used to produce steel. Benchmark prices for
that grade of coal have soared to $209 a metric ton for the
three-month contract ending Dec. 31, 62 percent higher than a
year earlier, driven by demand from China and India.  Valuable Commodity  “Nothing on the consolidation front would surprise us,”
said  Jeremy Sussman , an analyst at Brean Murray Carret & Co. in
New York. “Metallurgical coal is a structurally short
commodity, which continues to get tighter.”  Massey climbed $1.51, or 3.1 percent, to $50.52 today in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading, after rising as high
as $52.20. The shares have risen 20 percent this year.  Arch Coal Inc. didn’t return messages. Representatives of
ArcelorMittal, Alpha and Consol refused to comment. The Deal
reported on Massey’s plans to form a special committee earlier
today.  Massey “has not set a definitive timetable for completion
of its evaluation and there can be no assurance that this
process will lead to the approval or completion of any
transaction,” the company said.  The coal producer, which has operated for 94 years, said it
doesn’t intend to disclose any potential developments during the
process until the board approves a transaction or finishes the
review.  The company will likely decide sometime in the first
quarter whether it has an offer worth pursuing, one person
familiar with the matter said. That will allow time for the
holidays and for bidders to perform due diligence, the person
said.  Alpha Fit  Perella Weinberg told the board this weekend that Alpha
made the most sense as buyer, citing business synergies between
the producers. Alpha offered a $55 a share price for Massey
earlier in the year, 12 percent more than the company’s closing
price Nov. 19, according to the people. That price was deemed
too low by the board, the people said.  Walter Energy Inc. , a southern Appalachia coking coal
producer, offered Nov. 18 to buy  Western Coal Corp. , a Canadian
mining company, for C$3.3 billion ($3.2 billion) to increase
access to the commodity, representing a 59 percent premium to
Western Coal’s 20-day  average price  of C$7.23 as of Nov. 18 on
the Toronto Stock Exchange.  Possible Sale  While Chief Executive Officer  Don Blankenship , 60, has
expressed reservations about selling the firm now, the  board 
came to a consensus view over the weekend that it should
formalize a sales process and see what kind of value and
interest there was from outside companies, said the people
familiar with the matter. It isn’t clear how long the company
will run the auction process, said these people.  Many of the inquiries came earlier this year after the
April 5 accident at the Upper Big Branch mine near Montcoal,
West Virginia. The mishap was the worst U.S. coal mining
disaster in 40 years.  The company’s  stock  has fallen 7.6 percent since the fatal
blast after surging 30 percent this year prior to the accident.
Massey last month reported a net loss of $41.4 million for the
third quarter, citing lower productivity amid increased
regulatory scrutiny.  Coal India Ltd. , the world’s largest coal producer, is
considering a Massey mine for its first asset purchase in the
U.S., to help the state-run company meet demand from power
stations and steel mills, three people with direct knowledge of
the matter said this month.  Blankenship, who began his career with the company as an
office manager in 1982, and is the board’s chairman, said last
week that merger acquisition options will be “fully vetted” at
the board meeting which began yesterday at the Greenbrier Resort
in White Sulphur Springs, West Virginia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Mario Parker  in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 