-- Australia's Stocks Drop on Concern Irish Debt Crisis May Spread in Europe
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-11-22T23:35:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/australia-s-stocks-drop-on-concern-irish-debt-crisis-may-spread-in-europe.html
Australian  stocks  fell amid
speculation Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis may spread after
Moody’s Investors Service said a bailout of Ireland may pose a
“credit negative” for the country.  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company, lost
0.6 percent as copper slid in New York yesterday.  Woodside
Petroleum Ltd. , Australia’s second-biggest oil and gas producer,
retreated 0.8 percent after crude oil prices retreated.  Telstra
Corp Ltd. , Australia’s largest telephone company, climbed 1.9
percent after JPMorgan Chase & Co. boosted its stock rating to
“overweight,” saying investors are underestimating the
potential for share-price gains.  There’s concern “Ireland’s troubles could spill over into
other smaller EU countries, while the collapse of the government
just reinforces the political realities,” said  Stephen Halmarick , Sydney-based head of investment markets research at
Colonial First State Global Asset Management, which oversees
about $135 billion. “Markets are also worried that China’s
attempts to slow the economy and control inflation could weigh
on commodity demand.”  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index dropped 0.5 percent to
4,621.50 as of 10:34 a.m. in Sydney. The stocks gauge has
rallied 10 percent through yesterday from this year’s July 5 low
amid signs a U.S. recovery is regaining momentum and that
China’s economic expansion will continue. New Zealand’s  NZX 50
Index  dropped 0.2 percent. Japanese markets are closed for a
public holiday.  Ireland Bailout  Futures on the U.S.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  slipped 0.1
percent. U.S. stocks fell in New York yesterday, ending a three-
day gain in the  S&P 500 , amid speculation the Irish bailout will
fail to stem Europe’s debt crisis and as federal agents raided
hedge funds to probe insider trading. The  S&P 500  lost 0.2
percent to 1,197.84 as of 4 p.m. in New York. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  slipped 24.97 points, or 0.2 percent, to
11,178.58.  Moody’s Investors Service said the bailout, which Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. estimates may total 95 billion euros ($129
billion), may increase Ireland’s debt burden and pose a “credit
negative” for the country, the second euro nation to need a
rescue as the cost of saving the Irish banks made it vulnerable
to a rerun of the Greek debt crisis that destabilized the
currency.  The euro fell and Irish bonds pared their advance after
Moody’s Investors Service said a “multi-notch” downgrade in
Ireland’s Aa2 credit rating was “most likely” because the aid
would increase the country’s debt burden.  Government to Resign  The rescue package failed to damp speculation that Portugal
and Spain would follow Ireland in tapping the fund set up by the
European Union and International Monetary Fund after the Greece
rescue.  Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  said his government will
resign after passing the country’s budget, responding to calls
from the  Green Party  for January elections amid voter discontent
at his handling of the crisis.  “The admission by the Irish that they need financial aid
is not unexpected, and nor is the negative stance taken by
ratings agencies,” said  Angus Gluskie , who manages about $350
million at White Funds Management Pty. in Sydney. “Attention
has now turned to Spain and Portugal and investors may fret
about risks for those countries until a satisfactory level of
assurance about their financial outlook can be convincingly
given.”  Corporate Profits  The MSCI Asia Pacific excluding  Japan Index  has risen 12
percent this year through yesterday on speculation growth in
corporate profits will weather Europe’s debt crisis, Chinese
steps to curb property-price inflation and concern about the
pace of the U.S. economic rebound.  Crude fell for a second day in New York yesterday on
speculation Europe’s debt crisis will spread, hindering economic
growth and reducing fuel demand. Oil dropped 0.3 percent to
settle at $81.74 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Copper futures for March delivery sank 2.1 percent to $3.76 a
pound at 10:55 a.m. in New York.  China CAMC Engineering Co.  may be active in Shanghai after
signing a contract worth $76.6 million with Angola’s government
to build farms in the country.  Korean Air Lines Co.  may move in Seoul after completing a
40 billion yen ($480 million) securitization in Asia’s largest
sale of asset-backed securities this year, according to Standard
Chartered Plc, which managed the transaction.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 