-- Australia Briefs Independent Lawmakers on Plan That Will Transform Telstra
-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 2010-11-22T03:17:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/australia-holds-confidential-lawmaker-talks-on-plan-to-transform-telstra.html
Australia’s government briefed
independent lawmakers on a planned national broadband network
that will supplant services provided by  Telstra Corp.  to help
win support for the A$43 billion ($42.7 billion) project.  Two legislators said they signed a two-week non-disclosure
agreement and had an initial meeting this morning in Canberra
with  Michael Quigley , chief executive officer of  NBN Co. , the
state-run company that will build and operate the service. The
lawmakers were briefed on NBN’s unpublished plan and Telstra’s
role, which would bring down the cost.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  needs the support of non-
ruling party lawmakers in both houses of parliament to pass
legislation. The high-speed Internet proposal, which would bring
services to Australia’s remotest corners, is the country’s
largest infrastructure project.  “I was happy to sign the confidentiality agreement,”
independent lower-house lawmaker  Andrew Wilkie  said in an
interview in Canberra today. “I was satisfied there would be
some commercially-sensitive information that should be
reasonably protected.”  Senator  Steve Fielding , who represents the Family First
party, said he also attended the NBN briefing.  The Senate will this week start debating the separation of
Telstra’s retail business and copper-wire network, a necessary
step for the broadband plan to proceed. Both houses of
parliament will discuss the overall plan next year.  Lower House independents Rob Oakeshott and Bob Katter did
not attend the NBN briefing. Independent Tony Windsor was not
available for comment. The government needs four non-party votes
in the lower house to approve laws.  Offer Appreciated  “I did not attend the briefing, although I appreciated the
offer,” Oakeshott said in an interview. “I was not prepared to
sign the confidentiality agreement.”  The government wooed the Greens Party in the Senate for the
Telstra laws by promising any sale of the national broadband
network would have to be approved by parliament. It still needs
support from Fielding and  Nick Xenophon , an independent senator.  “I am open-minded about the Telstra legislation,”
Fielding said in an interview. “I have had a briefing this
morning and we are expecting a vote on the laws later in the
week.”  Xenophon met with Finance Minister  Penny Wong  and
separately with Quigley today. He also spoke on the phone to
Telstra Chief Executive Officer  David Thodey , Xenophon’s
spokesman Rohan Wenn said.  Election Impact  Gillard’s Internet plan drew fire ahead of the Aug. 21
election for its cost. She clung to power by forming a minority
government with independent lawmakers from rural regions who
welcomed the improved services.  Gillard’s proposal includes a non-binding agreement with
Melbourne-based  Telstra , the nation’s biggest phone company, to
shut down its copper wire network and transfer customers to NBN
in exchange for A$11 billion in compensation.  The broadband network is set to be completed by 2018,
laying fiber optics that would reach 93 percent of the
population, with the remainder served by wireless and satellite
coverage. The project is comparable in size to the A$42 billion
stimulus the government announced in February 2009 as it sought
to protect the nation from recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  