-- Australian, N.Z. Dollars Weaken as Ireland Debt Problems Damp Yield Demand
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-11-23T17:22:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/australian-dollar-falls-for-third-day-versus-yen-on-ireland-debt-concerns.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars fell on concern Ireland’s debt crisis will cause
contagion across other European nations, damping demand for
higher-yielding assets.  Both South Pacific currencies also dropped after North and
South Korea exchanged artillery fire.  “It’s a risk-off day,” said  Andrew Wilkinson , senior market
analyst at Interactive Brokers Group LLC in Greenwich,
Connecticut. “Geopolitical tensions and further fallout from the
financial crisis remain with us.”  Australia’s currency declined 2.2 percent to 80.59 yen as
of 12:20 p.m. in New York from 82.37 yen yesterday. The Aussie
fell 1.6 percent to 97.32 U.S. cents. New Zealand’s dollar
slipped 2 percent to 63.06 yen, and lost 1.4 percent to 76.14
cents.  Ireland’s Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  announced he would
seek an election yesterday after the Green Party said it would
pull out of his coalition. He said the vote will come early next
year after passage of a 2011 budget.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said today the euro is in
an “exceptionally serious” situation after Ireland asked for
financial rescue.  Declines in the New Zealand dollar were tempered after
Moody’s Investors Service said the government’s finances were
“relatively strong.” The nation’s performance during the
global financial crisis “reinforced” its Aaa rating for New
Zealand, Moody’s said.  The kiwi slumped 0.9 percent versus the dollar yesterday
after Standard & Poor’s lowered its credit-rating outlook for
New Zealand to negative.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  