-- U.S. Hikers Detained in Iran Seek Transfer to Swiss Embassy, Lawyer Says
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2010-11-22T09:03:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/lawyer-of-u-s-hikers-held-in-iran-requests-their-move-to-swiss-embassy.html
The lawyer representing two U.S.
Americans detained in Iran for more than a year on espionage
charges said he’ll request that they be allowed to move to the
Swiss embassy in Tehran while awaiting trial.  Masoud Shafiei, the lawyer, said he will make the request
after the trial date was postponed yesterday by three months to
Feb. 6. The Swiss embassy in the Iranian capital handles the
interests of the U.S., which doesn’t have diplomatic relations
with the Islamic republic.  “It would be logical that they would be freed and allowed
to stay at the Swiss embassy until the court session,” Shafiei
said in a phone interview in Tehran today. He also said he’ll
seek an earlier trial date because the three-month postponement
“is against the rights of my clients.”  Shafiei is representing Josh Fattal and Shane Bauer, who
were detained in July 2009 and prosecuted for illegally crossing
into Iran from Iraqi Kurdistan. The U.S. government has said
they mistakenly wandered across the border during a hiking trip.  A third hiker, Sarah Shourd, who was detained with the
other two, was freed in September on bail of $500,000, and left
the country. Shafiei is also representing her.  Iran’s prosecutor-general, Gholamhossein Mohseni-Ejei,
announced the postponement of the trial on Nov. 1, five days
before it had been scheduled to start, saying the delay was
because Shourd wasn’t summoned to appear.  The U.S. cut diplomatic ties with Iran in the aftermath of
the 1979 Islamic revolution in response to the seizure of the
embassy in Tehran, where 52 American diplomats were held hostage
for 444 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Holland at 
 bholland1@bloomberg.net  