-- BAE Systems to Face U.K. Accounting Charge as Prosecutors Test Plea Powers
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2010-11-22T17:55:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/bae-to-face-accounting-charge-as-u-k-prosecutors-test-plea-bargain-powers.html
BAE Systems Plc , Europe’s biggest
defense company, will be charged at a London court tomorrow with
failing to keep proper records of payments, testing U.K. fraud
prosecutors’ ability to negotiate plea deals.  BAE will plead guilty to accounting irregularities
regarding its business dealings in Tanzania and may pay 30
million pounds ($48 million) under a proposed settlement with
the  U.K. Serious Fraud Office , said  Sam Jaffa , a spokesman for
the SFO. BAE was under investigation in the U.K. since November
2004 for allegedly paying bribes to win deals in six countries
including Tanzania and the Czech Republic.  SFO plea-bargains in two other cases this year have been
criticized by judges who said that sentencing should be reserved
for judges. The prosecutor is seeking to improve its record on
overseas corruption prosecutions by encouraging companies to
self-report possible violations in exchange for leniency.  “The ability to bring this matter to a successful
conclusion along the structure that the SFO has previously
agreed to is very important to the SFO’s ability to reach
negotiated agreements,” said  Gary DiBianco , a criminal defense
lawyer at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP in London.
“They’re going to have good arguments as to why in light of the
overall structure and history of the case this is an appropriate
resolution, but I also think that from the court’s perspective,
this area of the law is still in development.”  Six-Year Investigation  BAE agreed to pay almost $450 million in fines in February
to resolve the fraud investigations by U.K. and U.S.
prosecutors. The arms dealer paid $400 million to the U.S. in
March and  pleaded guilty  to conspiring to defraud the U.S.
government and violating arms regulations.  The charges following a six-year corruption investigation
allowed BAE to keep U.S. government contracts and to continue to
bid for public procurement contracts in Europe.  “We welcome this progress towards finalizing the
settlement reached with the SFO in February,”  Leonie Foster , a
spokeswoman for London-based BAE, said in an e-mailed statement.  The case will test the SFO’s ability to set penalties in
plea bargains, a tactic used by U.S. prosecutors in corruption
cases. The SFO has delayed charging BAE for several months to
ensure the deal will be approved by the U.K. court.  The SFO was reprimanded by Judge  John Laugharne Thomas  in
March after it and the U.S. Justice Department agreed to a joint
plea bargain with fuel-additives maker Innospec Inc. for paying
bribes in Indonesia to win contracts for the supply of fuel
additive tetraethyl lead. Innospec agreed to pay $40 million to
settle the case.  ‘No Power’  “The SFO had no power to enter into the arrangements made
and no such arrangements should be made again,” Thomas said.  If the BAE deal isn’t approved, “it will be a setback in
this particular case, and something of a setback in timing,”
DiBianco said. “There still will be creative and appropriate
ways to resolve these investigations in a manner that doesn’t
run afoul of the dictates of the court.”  The SFO scrapped part of the investigation into BAE in 2006
over bribes allegedly paid to win deals in Saudi Arabia after
then-prime minister  Tony Blair  said charges might harm relations
between the two countries, posing a threat to national security.  The U.S. accused BAE in court documents of falsifying
information and failing to disclose commissions paid to get arms
deals. The British company made payments of more than 135
million pounds and $14 million to so-called market advisers,
funds that weren’t properly accounted for, the Department of
Justice said in the court filing.  Disarmament Groups  Two disarmament groups sought to delay the SFO’s deal with
BAE, saying the settlement didn’t follow U.K. guidance on plea
bargains and doesn’t reflect the seriousness of BAE’s actions. A
judge declined the groups’ request for a court review of the
settlement in March.  The groups, the Campaign Against Arms Trade and Corner
House, said in a statement today the SFO should tell the court
that it agreed “never to prosecute any individual in future if
doing so involves alleging BAE Systems was guilty of
corruption.”  “We remain deeply concerned about the terms of the plea
bargain that the SFO has struck with BAE,” the groups said to
SFO Director  Richard Alderman  in a letter this month, they said
in the statement today.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 