-- Banks `Back in Bed' With Companies Lend $10 Billion in Europe
-- B y   I s a b e l l   W i t t
-- 2010-11-22T16:39:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/banks-get-back-in-bed-with-companies-as-10-billion-deals-resist-crisis.html
Wind Telecomunicazioni SpA, Deutsche
Post AG and Premier Oil Plc marketed $10 billion of loans to
cut their borrowing costs as bond markets were gripped by
concerns over Europe’s fiscal crisis.  Italian mobile operator Wind Telecom took advantage of loan
demand to boost the size of a deal by 500 million euros ($684
million) to 3.93 billion euros last week, scaling back a bond
issue by the same amount. Premier Oil cut its borrowing costs by
more than half to 2 percent in a deal that refinanced debt two
years before it’s due. Deutsche Post is seeking its first loan,
for 1.5 billion euros, as it shifts away from bonds.  Treasurers are shifting funding to loans after banks slash
interest margins to high-grade issuers by more than half
this year, according to Societe Generale SA. After record bond
sales in 2009, companies will boost bank borrowing in 2011,
Societe Generale SA analysts said in a Nov. 17 note to clients.  “Corporates are back in bed with the banks and clipping
sizeable back-up facilities at ever declining margins,” said
SocGen’s London-based credit strategist  Suki Mann .  Interest margins for single A-rated borrowers fell to about
50 basis points over benchmark rates this quarter from 125 basis
points over benchmark rates at the start of the year, according
to SocGen. The margin for BBB rated borrowers fell to
75 basis points from about 200 basis points. That compares with
an average spread of 186 basis points over benchmarks on new
investment-grade bonds in the fourth quarter, up from 141 basis
points in the first quarter, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Crisis ‘Forgotten’  Borrowers were undeterred by a rout in credit markets as
Ireland seeks international aid that Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
estimates may total 95 billion euros.  “The sovereign risks are somewhat in the background,”
said  Jean-Philippe Levilain , head of leveraged finance at Axa
Investment Managers in Paris, which oversees 4.5 billion euros
of loans. “It’s always present but people in the loan market
have forgotten about it. It’s a good reminder that the macro
outlook is not that rosy.”  As the cost of insuring high-yield corporate bonds rose to
a four-week high of 464 basis points on Nov. 16, London-based
Premier Oil said it arranged $1.1 billion of five-year loans to
benefit from “favorable conditions in the bank market.”  Wind Picks Loans  Wind Telecom, owned by Egyptian billionaire Naguib Sawiris,
saved about 9 million euros a year by shifting more of its
financing into loans and out of bonds. Wind’s eight-year notes
in dollars and euros have an average coupon of 7.33 percent,
Bloomberg data show. By comparison, the company plans to pay 450
basis points, or 5.54 percent taking into account the current
euro interbank offered rate, on its seven-year loans.  “The loan was upsized due to its lower cost of capital and
strong demand from institutional loan investors,” said London-
based  Mathew Cestar , head of European leveraged finance at
Credit Suisse Group AG in London, one of the leading banks on
the Wind deal.  Banks have underwritten $87 billion of loans this year to
junk-rated borrowers in Europe including Wind Telecom, compared
with $69 billion in the corresponding period last year,
Bloomberg data show. Lenders shunned leveraged loans after they
contributed to $1.8 trillion of losses and writedowns since the
start of the credit crisis in 2007.  “It’s surprising how much competition there is among banks
for non-investment grade financings,” said Nicola D’Anselmo,
who oversees corporate and investment banking in Italy for BNP
Paribas SA in Milan.  Premier Rate Halved  U.K. crude and natural gas explorer  Premier Oil  agreed
to an initial interest at 175 basis points over the London
interbank offered rate on a $457 million revolving credit line,
chief financial officer  Tony Durrant  said. The margin to draw on
the credit line can jump to as much as 300 basis points
depending on the company’s debt relative to cash flows.  Premier Oil’s loans are costing about 2 percent at current
benchmark rates, compared with overall debt interest of 5.13
percent last year, according to the company’s annual report.  Deutsche Post, Europe’s largest postal service, is seeking
its first syndicated loan to refinance bonds. The five-year
revolving credit will pay a margin of about 55 basis points for
drawn funds, two people familiar with the situation said.
Deutsche Post, based in Bonn, is ranked BBB+ by Standard &
Poor’s and Baa1 by Moody’s Investors Service.  Three-month dollar Libor, the rate banks charge to lend
each other, is 0.2844 percent. Three-month  Euribor  is 1.04
percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Isabell Witt  in London
on   iwitt4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: Faris Khan at
   Fkhan33@bloomberg.net  