-- Regeneron Surges After Eye Drug Matches Roche's Lucentis With Fewer Doses
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2010-11-22T21:22:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/bayer-regeneron-eye-medicine-matches-roche-s-lucentis-with-fewer-doses.html
Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. 
surged the most in a year in Nasdaq trading after two studies
found its experimental eye drug worked as well as  Roche Holding
AG ’s Lucentis with fewer doses.  Regeneron’s injected eye treatment, called  VEGF Trap-Eye ,
was as effective given every other month as Lucentis,
administered monthly, two studies found. Tarrytown, New York-
based Regeneron plans to seek U.S. and European approvals in the
first half of 2011, the company said today in a statement.  Today’s results, from the third and final stage of tests
generally needed for U.S. approval, may prompt doctors to choose
Regeneron’s drug, partnered with  Bayer AG , before Lucentis,
which generated  $1.2 billion  last year. The medicines treat wet
age-related macular degeneration, or  AMD , caused by abnormal
blood vessel growth behind the retina. The disorder is a leading
cause of blindness in the elderly. About 200,000 people are
diagnosed with wet AMD each year, according to  Roche .  “It would certainly become my first-line therapy,” said
 Jeffrey Heier , a retinal specialist at  Ophthalmic Consultants of
Boston  and chair of the steering committee for one of the
trials, in a telephone interview. “The drugs that we have are
really outstanding, but they require constant monitoring and
frequent injections.”  Regeneron shares rose $4.86, or 20 percent, to $29.53 at 4
p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading for the biggest gain since
Nov. 11, 2009. Bayer fell 68 cents, or 1.2 percent, to 57.10
euros at the close of trading in Frankfurt.  VEGF Inhibitors  VEGF is short for  vascular endothelial growth factor , a
protein that stimulates the growth of new blood vessels. Both
Lucentis and Regeneron’s medicine aim to inhibit VEGF.  VEGF Trap-Eye maintained the vision of 95 percent of
patients on 2 milligrams once every two months in the first
study of 1,217 people in the U.S. and Canada done by Regeneron,
the company said. That compared with vision maintenance in 94
percent of patients receiving 0.5 milligrams of Lucentis, or
ranibizumab, once monthly.  Bayer, which has marketing rights outside the U.S. and will
split overseas profits equally with Regeneron, conducted a
second trial in Europe, Asia and Latin America that had similar
findings.  “There’s a critical need to be able to treat patients less
frequently,” said  Leonard Schleifer , Regeneron’s chief
executive officer, in an interview. “This treatment is by
direct injection into the eye; it’s not like taking a pill.”  Improved Vision  The data also showed that VEGF Trap-Eye in a once monthly
dose improved the vision of patients more than Lucentis did
after 52 weeks in the U.S. and Canada trial, Regeneron said.
Patients taking 2 milligrams of VEGF Trap-Eye once a month were
able to see an average of 11 more letters on a vision chart
compared with an extra 8 letters for those taking 0.5 milligrams
of Lucentis each month.  Side effects were similar among the different drugs and
dosing regimens, Regeneron said. The most frequent ocular
adverse events were retinal hemorrhage, eye pain and what’s
known as floaters, or dark spots in the field of vision.  “The therapy is another brick in the fundament of Bayer
HealthCare’s future growth of sales and profits,”  Karl-Heinz Scheunemann , an analyst at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in
Stuttgart, said in a note to clients today.  Regeneron and Bayer’s new treatment will likely join
Lucentis and Roche’s Avastin in a “multi-billion dollar wet AMD
market,” said  Ziad Bakri , an analyst with Cowen & Co. in New
York, in a research note today.  Injection Costs  Avastin, another medicine from Roche’s Genentech unit,
isn’t approved for use in wet AMD, though doctors prescribe it
off-label as a less-expensive alternative to Lucentis, Heier,
the eye specialist said. Avastin injections cost $40 to $50 for
each dose, while Lucentis is as much as $1,950, Bakri said.  A National Institutes of Health study is testing Avastin
against Lucentis, with data expected in the first half of 2011.
Results showing Avastin works as well as Lucentis could limit
use of the latter and limit how high Regeneron could price its
drug, Bakri said.  “That said, we expect data from VIEW 1 & 2 to allow VEGF
Trap to capture a meaningful share of the remaining (non-Avastin
treated) market,” he said today, referring to the two Regeneron
studies.  Schleifer, Regeneron’s chief executive officer, said it was
too early to discuss pricing of the medicine.  “First we have to get the drug approved,” he said.
“That’s job number 1.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Meg Tirrell  in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 