-- BMW, Mercedes-Benz Shorten Christmas Breaks as Demand for New Models Booms
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r   a n d   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 2010-11-23T09:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/bmw-shortens-christmas-breaks-at-factories-on-surging-5-series-x1-demand.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and
 Daimler AG ’s Mercedes-Benz, the world’s two largest makers of
luxury autos, will shorten Christmas breaks at their factories
because of surging demand for new models.  BMW’s German plants in Dingolfing and Leipzig, where the
recently overhauled 5-Series and the X1 introduced last year are
churned out, will stay open over the holidays after halting for
about three weeks in 2009.  Daimler ’s Hamburg factory, which
supplies parts to vehicles including the Mercedes E- and S-Class
sedans, will also remain in operation through the holidays.  Luxury-vehicle demand is bouncing back from the financial
crisis on a rebound in the U.S. and growth in China. BMW and
Mercedes each target sales growth of more than 10 percent this
year. Audi, the luxury unit of  Volkswagen AG , plans to add
shifts next month to cope with record orders.  “This is the first strong signal that the boom over the
last few months can continue into next year,” said  Juergen Pieper , a Frankfurt-based analyst with Bankhaus Metzler, who
recommends buying Daimler, BMW and VW shares.  Volkswagen, which gets the biggest chunk of its profit from
Audi, has jumped 92 percent this year, followed by BMW’s 84
percent gain, making them the two best performers in the  Stoxx
600 Automobiles & Parts Sub-index , which is up 43 percent and is
the best-performing industry group in  Stoxx Europe 600 Index .
Daimler advanced 37 percent in the period.  BMW climbed 65 cents, or 1.1 percent, to 58.34 euros as of
10:49 a.m. in Frankfurt trading, the best performer today on
Germany’s benchmark  DAX Index . Daimler was up 0.8 percent to
50.98 euros, while VW’s preferred shares fell 0.4 percent.  Bonus Boost  A shortened holiday shutdown probably is a sign German
luxury carmakers are gaining share,  Himanshu Patel , an analyst
at JP Morgan Securities LLC in New York, said yesterday about
the benefit to  Johnson Controls Inc.  The company, the largest
U.S. auto supplier, gets about half its auto-parts revenue in
 Europe , where vehicle production in the fourth quarter probably
will be higher than analysts estimate, he wrote in a report.  Boosting demand for luxury vehicles, investment banks are
rewarding workers with promotions as they recover from the
financial crisis. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the most profitable
securities firm in Wall Street history, last week named a record
number of employees managing director, boosting their pay and
status. The U.S. is the largest luxury-car market.  BMW, which makes the Mini and Rolls-Royce models in
addition to its own brand, increased sales worldwide by 13
percent to 1.19 million vehicles through October, while
deliveries of  Mercedes  and the Smart city car rose 12 percent to
1.04 million.  Market Share Gains  Audi, the biggest seller of luxury cars in Europe,
increased its 10-month market share in the region to 4.5 percent
from 4.3 percent. The  BMW  brand gained to 4.3 percent from 3.9
percent, while Mercedes climbed to 4.2 percent from 4 percent.  BMW  produces  the recently overhauled 5-Series, and the 6-
and 7-Series models in Dingolfing, the carmaker’s largest plant.
The X1, introduced late last year, and 1-Series compact are
assembled in Leipzig.  “Production capacity is the limiting factor at the
moment,”  Michael Rebstock , a spokesman for BMW, said yesterday
in a phone interview. “We are producing as much as we can and
are happy for every additional shift we can get.”  Some BMW  factories  will still stop production around the
Christmas and New Year’s holidays to carry out necessary
maintenance and to restock supplies, Rebstock said.  “This year we’re keeping the breaks as short as possible,
while last year we had them as long as possible,” he said.  Daimler Plans  Daimler’s Hamburg plant, which makes exhaust systems, axles
and steering columns, will remain in operation through the
holidays, said  Nicole Kicherer , a spokeswoman for Daimler in
Stuttgart. Most auto factories will halt production between
Christmas Eve and New Year’s Day, which would be about one to
two weeks shorter than last year, she said.  VW’s Audi and sports-car maker  Porsche SE  have no plans to
shorten the Christmas shutdown. Audi will shutter its German
factories in Ingolstadt and Neckarsulm as planned between Dec.
23 and Jan. 7, also to carry out end-of-year maintenance on
production lines, said Ralf Mattes, spokesman for Audi’s works
council.  Still, Audi will add shifts in December on Saturdays and
overnight from Sundays to Mondays “to cope with record
orders,” Mattes said. Audi’s plant in Brussels, where the new
A1 compact is made, will resume production already on Jan. 3, he
said, noting the carmaker’s five factories decide on winter
breaks individually.  Porsche  will shut its main plant in Zuffenhausen from Dec.
24 to 31, while a factory in Leipzig, where the Cayenne SUV and
Panamera sedan are assembled, will be closed from Dec. 24 to
Jan. 9, spokesman  Heiner von der Laden  said. The sports-car
maker has no plans to add shifts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Reiter  in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
 Andreas Cremer  in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 