-- Bogdanka Calls For 30%-50% Premium After Rejecting NWR's $1.2 Billion Bid
-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i   a n d   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2010-11-22T13:14:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/bogdanka-calls-for-30-50-premium-after-rejecting-nwr-s-1-2-billion-bid.html
Lubelski Wegiel Bogdanka SA , the
Polish coal producer whose management last month rejected a 3.43
billion-zloty ($1.2 billion) bid from  New World Resources NV  as
too low, expects a premium for control of as much as 50 percent.  Bogdanka’s value is “far above” NWR’s bid of 100.75 zloty
a share, as well as BRE Bank SA’s estimate of 125.9 zloty, the
highest of nine recommendations tracked by Bloomberg, Bogdanka
Chief Executive Officer  Miroslaw Taras  said. The producer of
thermal coal, used by power producers, has jumped 51 percent
this year, trading at 107.5 zloty at 2:10 p.m. in Warsaw.  “NWR’s price doesn’t take into account our growth
prospects, nor does it include a premium for control,” Taras
said in a phone interview. “In developed markets and among
commodity producers, premiums for control amount to 30 percent
to 50 percent, and I see no reason why anybody should offer less
for Bogdanka.”  NWR  of the Czech Republic, which mines both thermal coal
and coking coal, used by steelmakers, is looking to Poland,
which gets 90 percent of its electricity from the fuel, to
expand reserves as commodity prices recover.  Poland’s mergers and acquisitions market has already almost
tripled to $13.9 billion from last year, with deals including
the 16.6 billion-zloty purchase of  Bank Zachodni WBK SA  by
Spain’s Banco Santander SA and utility PGE SA buying Energa SA
for 7.53 billion zloty.  Shareholder Opposition  NWR’s bid for 100 percent of Bogdanka, which ends Nov. 29,
may fail as Aviva Powszechne Towarzystwo Emerytalne SA, the
Polish pension fund that’s the biggest single shareholder of
Bogdanka, with 15 percent, and Amplico Powszechne Towarzystwo
Emerytalne SA, which has 5.1 percent, said Oct. 6 that the
company is worth more than the bid price.  “At the current price a majority of Bogdanka owners won’t
sell their shares, and the bid will fail,” said Taras.  Bogdanka, Poland’s only publicly traded coal miner, aims to
double coal extraction to 11.5 million tons in 2014, investing
1.8 billion zloty. It raised 528 million zloty in an initial
public offering last year to help finance expansion.  Acquisitions aren’t a priority at the moment, according to
Taras. Bogdanka may expand into coking coal, which preliminary
exploration shows may exist near current thermal coal deposits,
he said.  On Nov. 8 Taras said a merger with Jastrzebska Spolka
Weglowa SA, the European Union’s largest coking coal producer,
known as JSW, would be a “splendid idea,” creating a regional
leader.  Any merger with state-owned JSW, whose Chief Executive
Officer  Jaroslaw Zagorowski  last month didn’t rule out a bid for
Bogdanka, would be a “long-term project and maybe
unrealistic,” depending on JSW’s IPO plans and the government’s
policy after general elections next year, Taras said today.  Bogdanka has support from its shareholders for “good”
investment and acquisition projects, including a purchase of JSW
shares in an IPO if the company decides to take part, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net ;
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  