-- Bond Managers May Boost Demand for Mortgage Debt, JPMorgan Says
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-11-22T17:43:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/bond-managers-may-boost-demand-for-mortgage-debt-jpmorgan-says.html
Money managers may boost demand for
government-backed mortgage bonds because their holdings would be
about $200 billion higher if they matched the amounts of the
securities in benchmark debt indexes, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. analysts.  About 37 percent of the investors are “underweight” the
debt, down from 67 percent during the summer, the New York-based
analysts led by Matt Jozoff said in a Nov. 19 report, citing a
survey that the bank conducted last week.  The potential for further purchases by money managers, who
recently increased their holdings by between $200 billion and
$300 billion, represents a source of support for the $5.2
trillion market as they drift toward “neutral” allocations,
the analysts said. The investors, who trimmed their holdings as
the  Federal Reserve  through March bought $1.25 trillion of
agency mortgage securities guaranteed by Fannie Mae,  Freddie Mac 
or Ginnie Mae, may go even further in their buying, Barclays
Capital analysts said.  “Although money managers have increased their holdings
noticeably over the past few months, there is little to prevent
them from moving to overweight the sector, especially if there
are limited ‘cheap’ alternatives,” the Barclays analysts led by
Ajay Rajadhyaksha in New York wrote in a Nov. 19 report.  Between 20 percent and 25 percent of money managers have
been “overweight” agency mortgage bonds throughout this year,
according to JPMorgan.  Pimco Purchases    Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., has been among recent buyers.
Last month, Pimco’s $256 billion Total Return Fund boosted
mortgage-related assets to 39 percent of holdings, the highest
level since July 2009, from 28 percent, according to data on the
website of the Newport Beach, California, company.  Prices of some mortgage bonds backed by higher-rate loans
have risen to records this month even as some benchmark
Treasuries tumbled. As of 10:30 a.m. in  New York , 6.5 percent,
30-year fixed-rate securities guaranteed by Fannie Mae climbed
to 111.13 cents on the dollar, from 110.38 on Oct. 29, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors are flocking to higher-coupon agency mortgage
bonds on the view that they will be repaid relatively quickly
even as loan rates increase, making the securities akin to
shorter-term Treasuries with higher yields, said Ken Hackel,
head of securitized product strategy at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . At same time, investors are also wagering
they will be protected by limited refinancing by the underlying
homeowners, which returns their principal at par, he said.  “It’s a little bit of an inconsistency in the way people
are looking at the world,” Hackel said in a Nov. 19 telephone
interview.    Fannie Mae ’s 6.5 percent securities have projected average
lives of 2.5 years based on average analyst prepayment
forecasts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Washington-based company’s 3.5 percent securities, with average
lives of 7.1 years, have fallen to 98.56 cents, from 100.75.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  