-- Booker Struggles With Newark Recovery as Zuckerberg, Robertson `Bet Big'
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2010-11-22T16:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/booker-struggles-with-newark-recovery-as-zuckerberg-robertson-bet-big-.html
Cory Booker  says his plan to fire
hundreds of municipal workers, including 15 percent of the
police force, to help close the latest of a decade of budget
deficits is his toughest decision yet in five years as mayor of
Newark, New Jersey.  “These are very difficult things,” Booker, 41, an Oxford
University graduate who attended as a Rhodes Scholar, said
during a telephone interview from the back seat of his police-
driven sport-utility vehicle. “Those are families that have
been relying on city jobs. It’s a very gut-wrenching, difficult
process to go through.”  The Democrat proposed eliminating the positions even as the
state’s largest city, where more than half of residents are
black and a quarter live in poverty, had a 9 percent rise in
shootings in 2010. Booker on Nov. 20 gave police until Nov. 30
to vote on a proposal to avoid firings, according to Esmeralda
Cameron, his spokeswoman.  Since taking office in 2006, Booker has won $240 million in
grants from entrepreneurs and foundations, led by Facebook Inc.
founder  Mark Zuckerberg  and hedge-fund manager  Bill Ackman , by
promoting the idea that the city of 280,000, located 15 miles
(24 kilometers) west of Wall Street, is a mid-sized laboratory
for urban renewal. The mayor’s need to balance his $600 million
budget just as Republican Governor  Chris Christie  is slashing
aid to cities such as Newark may limit the impact of the
donations he’s attracted.  “I don’t see none of it being used,” said Cynthia
Andrews, whose son, Mujaheed E. Muhammad Williams, 28, was
robbed and killed Aug. 20 while walking to her home. “Why are
libraries closing? Why are our recreation centers closing?”  Budget Gaps  Rising pension costs, a 23 percent drop in state aid from
2009 and the longest U.S. recession since the 1930s combined to
overcome Booker’s pledge to eliminate deficits by the end of his
first term in July. He won re-election in a nonpartisan contest
in May with 59 percent of the vote.  Faced with an $83 million gap this calendar year, Booker
cut back hours at pools and libraries and raised property taxes
16 percent. The city plans to fire hundreds of municipal workers
to save money, and sell buildings to Essex County to raise cash.  Booker drew national attention to Newark after he appeared
on the  Oprah Winfrey  show in September to report a $100 million
donation from Zuckerberg to support teachers, increase
accountability and promote charter schools.  Free Lunch  Newark’s public schools, at their prime, educated Pulitzer
Prize-winning author  Philip Roth  in the 1930s and 1940s,
according to the Philip Roth  Society  in New Britain,
Connecticut. About 82 percent of the system’s students now
receive free or reduced-price school lunches, said a  report 
released this month by the Association for Children of New
Jersey, a children’s advocacy group.  Thirty-four percent of Newark’s high-school freshmen in the
2005-2006 school year dropped out before graduation,  data  from
the National Center for Education Statistics show. The rate
compares with 14 percent for the suburban New Jersey town of
Toms River, where the median household income is $71,032,
compared with the U.S. average of $52,175 and Newark’s $35,601,
Census Bureau data  show .  Julian Robertson , founder of New York-based hedge fund
Tiger Management LLC, donated the maximum $26,000 allowed by New
Jersey campaign-finance laws to Booker’s 2010 mayoral run and
said he’s “a leader.”  ‘Big’ Bet  “I’m sure he’s going to keep getting things done,”
Robertson, 78, said in an Oct. 4 interview. “That’s what I’m
betting on. I bet on it big.”  Booker took office pledging to repair the finances of a
city that has yet to recover fully from six days of  race riots 
in 1967 that left 23 people dead and 725 injured.  The unrest sped up a process of migration that began in the
years after World War II, said Jason Barr, an associate
professor of economics at Rutgers University’s Newark campus.  “The deck was stacked, in some sense, against Newark, just
in that there was a change in the U.S. economy,” Barr said.
“People were moving out to the suburbs and manufacturing was
leaving the Northeast. The riots made the situation much worse.
And the lasting effect of the riots has been on Newark’s name
and perception.”  The repair of Newark began under  Sharpe James , the city’s
mayor for 20 years, who was released from prison in April after
serving 18 months for his 2008 conviction of illegally steering
city-owned property to a former mistress.  Devils’ Home  Starting in 1986, James, a Democrat, helped revive the
downtown by luring a performing-arts center and minor-league
baseball stadium. Newark is home to companies such as  Prudential
Financial Inc.  and  IDT Corp.  The $365 million Prudential Center,
home of the New Jersey Devils hockey team, opened in 2007.  James, 74, declined to seek a sixth term in 2006, clearing
the way for Booker to win election.  Booker grew up in the northern New Jersey suburb of
Harrington Park and moved to Newark in 1996. He graduated from
Stanford University, Oxford and Yale Law School.  The mayor made crime reduction his first-term focus as the
city was shaken by the 2007 execution-style shootings of four
college students behind an elementary school.  Booker hired  Garry McCarthy , a 25-year veteran with the New
York Police Department and its chief crime strategist, to run
his police department. Using private money, Newark purchased
police cars, a gunshot-location system and closed-circuit
television cameras. Shootings fell 46 percent from 2006 to 2009.  ‘New Strategies’  This year, total crime  rose  3 percent through Oct. 31,
compared to the same period a year earlier. Murder has climbed
16 percent, according to police department  statistics .  “The actual crime increase is small, and violent crime is
still down significantly since 2006,” Booker said Nov. 13 by
text message. “Many cities are up in murders, but we are
continuing to bring new strategies, technologies and initiatives
forward.”  The city has lost about $120 million in funding from the
state and Port Authority of New York and New Jersey in the past
two years, and faces a $130 million jump in pension and health-
care costs next year, Booker said. Newark’s unemployment  rate 
was 14.7 percent in September, according to U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics. Statewide, the  rate  was 9.4 percent.  Booker said on Nov. 10 that any cuts wouldn’t affect the
number of police on patrol, as officers would be shifted onto
the street. His budget plan included firing 167 police officers
that was scheduled for Nov. 12, until a state Superior Court
judge granted the injunction blocking the move. The elimination
of hundreds of non-uniformed jobs also is on hold, said Cameron,
Booker’s spokeswoman.  Less Overtime  At a Nov. 20 press conference, the mayor said the city
offered a plan that included five furlough days and reduced
overtime instead of dismissals. Unions in negotiations also
offered concessions including lower stress pay, clothing
allowances and raises, according to the city.  The city will present a written proposal today and will
distribute it to the entire police force, which will vote on it
Nov. 30, Walter Melvin, a police-union representative, said in
an interview.  “Firing 167 officers is entirely avoidable,” Booker said
at the press conference. “We are open to holding off for a
couple days if they are willing to work with us.”  Newark has recast itself since the riots as a home to
education and healthcare, with 18,643 jobs in local schools and
universities. Rutgers University, the University of Medicine and
Dentistry state medical school and Essex County College have a
combined enrollment of 15,024 students at their city campuses.
Health care also accounts for 13,133 of more than 100,000 jobs
in the city, according to the state Labor Department.  Winning Support  Booker said he is focusing on K-12 education this term. He
pledged to match Zuckerberg’s $100 million, and said he raised
$43 million so far. He’ll need to convince citizens that he will
spend the money to help them, said Newark native Steve Adubato
Jr., a Democratic political consultant.  “All politics is very local to Newarkers and they need to
know that you are one of them,” Adubato said. “They need to
feel that you feel them and that you understand them.”  “Cory has always been challenged in that regard,” Adubato
said. “He’s not from those streets. Cory could bring in $500
million and people will still question his commitment.”  Booker said none of the  donated  money will help balance
Newark’s budget.  “People are not giving to the general funds of cities,”
he said. “They’re giving to specific projects.”  Christie Aid Cut  Booker announced the grant almost three months after
Christie cut aid by 5 percent for Newark’s 39,000-student school
system.  “My initial reaction was that it’s a wonderful thing,”
Kim Rivers, a stay-at-home mother of three whose autistic son
attends Thirteenth Avenue Elementary School, said of the
donation. “At the same time I have to wonder if it was money
that’s been the issue for Newark.”  Newark spent $24,228 per child in the 2006-2007 year, more
than any other district in the U.S. with more than 15,000
students, according to  data  from the National Center for
Education Statistics. The national average for those districts
was $9,323.  New Jersey, the second-wealthiest state by per-capita
income, under a state Supreme Court ruling gives extra money to
the 31 poorest school districts, including Newark, to bring them
in line with spending levels of the richest.  Better Neighborhoods  The best way to fix schools is to improve their surrounding
neighborhoods, said Alan Sadovnik, professor of Education,
Sociology and Public Administration and Affairs at Rutgers.
Policies should include economic development and job creation,
the improvement of health care and housing and the elimination
of gangs, he said.  “The bottom line is that it’s not all about money,” said
Maryam Bey, a former school board member.  Bey said she worries Booker is relying too much on
outsiders to save the city, and hasn’t focused enough on changes
on the ground.  “People are starting to get on edge,” Bey said. “They
can’t pay their rent, they can’t feed their families and they
can’t pay their car notes. It’s really hypocritical for the
mayor to say he wants to save our children, and not want to help
their parents.”  The case is Fraternal Order of Police v. City of Newark, C-
000237-10, Superior Court of New Jersey (Essex County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 