-- BP Gulf-Leak Estimates Slowed Efforts to Kill Well
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2010-11-22T21:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/bp-gulf-leak-estimates-slowed-efforts-to-kill-well-report-says.html
BP Plc  “impeded” efforts to kill
an out-of-control well in the Gulf of Mexico by underestimating
the amount of oil gushing into the water, the staff of a
presidential panel investigating the disaster said in a report.  Estimates of a 1,000-barrel-a-day leak after a drilling  rig 
exploded April 20 delayed planning for techniques to seal the
well, staff of the  National Commission on the BP Deepwater
Horizon Oil Spill  said today. A U.S. government-appointed team
of scientists in August said the well was gushing about 62,000
barrels a day after the blowout and 53,000 barrels when it was
capped on July 15.  The report found that at the time of the explosion, BP had
no proven ways to kill a well in 5,000 feet of water and that
government regulators were ill-equipped to supervise BP
decisions. The staff in an earlier report said the low estimates
may have hindered the containment efforts.  “Underestimates of the flow rate appear to have impeded
planning for source-control efforts,” the report found. The 87-
day effort to stop the oil was needed “because of a lack of
advance preparation by industry and government.”  The explosion killed 11 workers and triggered the worst
U.S. oil spill. The Justice Department and several committees in
Congress are investigating the disaster, which sank the $365
million rig leased by BP from  Transocean Ltd. , closed thousands
of square miles to fishing for months, and halted deep-water oil
exploration. In an agreement brokered with the Obama
administration, BP set aside $20 billion to pay damage claims.  ‘Aggressive Indifference’  “Had BP not shown such aggressive indifference to the size
of the disaster, and the oil industry to preparing for such an
event, then perhaps early actions could have made a difference
in stopping this spill,” Representative  Edward Markey , a
Massachusetts Democrat, said today in a statement.  Scott Dean , a BP spokesman, said the London-based company
declined to comment on the report.  The commission, appointed by President  Barack Obama , plans
to release findings in January. Last month, a staff report found
that Houston-based  Halliburton Co ., a contractor on the doomed
rig, knew cement it mixed to plug the well was unstable as much
as two months before the blowout.  The commission’s staff recommended that deep-water drillers
develop detailed plans to control a blowout and that regulators
have more “in-house” experience with deep-water exploration.
Regulators should require drillers to upgrade blowout
preventers, the device meant to seal a well in the event of a
blowout, with diagnostic systems that can send data.  Expertise Required  “At the time of the blowout, the government was unprepared
to oversee a deep-water source-control effort,” the report
found. “This experience suggests that, to provide meaningful
supervision, the government needs access to sufficient expertise
in deep-water drilling and containment -- through the  Department
of the Interior , the national labs, outside scientists, or
otherwise.”  Drillers may need to consider at the time a well is being
designed the possibility that a well may go out of control.
Smaller drillers without the resources available to BP to fight
a spill may need to show they have the ability to respond,
whether through binding membership in an industry insurance
group, according to the staff report.  “On April 20, the oil-and-gas industry was unprepared to
respond to a deep-water blowout, and the federal government was
similarly unprepared to provide meaningful supervision,” the
report found. “In a compressed timeframe, BP was able to
design, build, and use new containment technologies, while the
federal government was able to develop effective oversight
capacity. Those impressive efforts, however, were made necessary
by the failure to anticipate a subsea blowout in the first
place.”  U.S., BP Underestimated  The Obama administration and BP both underestimated the
spill rate, according to today’s report. In early May, as BP
prepared to place a containment dome over the well,  Doug Suttles , BP chief operating officer for exploration and
production, told panel staff that the flow was 13,000 to 14,000
barrels a day. The government’s estimate at the time was 5,000
barrels.  Government officials said a reason for the rapid formation
of hydrates in the cofferdam was the heavier-then-anticipated
flow. Hydrates blocked oil and gas and the dome project failed.  The Obama administration blocked release of worst-case
government estimates of the spill rate, the commission staff
said in an Oct. 6 report. The move undermined public confidence
in the U.S. response and may have hindered efforts to staunch
the flow.  NOAA Denies Release  The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
“wanted to make public some of its long-term, worst-case
discharge models for the Deepwater Horizon spill, and requested
approval to do so from the White House’s Office of Management
and Budget,” according to the staff paper. “The Office of
Management and Budget denied NOAA’s request.”  Halliburton, the second-largest oilfield-services company
after  Schlumberger Ltd. , disputed the panel’s findings on its
role, saying the cement cited for flaws in February was
different from the mixture used to plug the well two months
later.  The commission  tested off-the-shelf cement and additives,
while Halliburton tested the “unique blend” of cement and
additives that existed on the rig at the time Halliburton’s
tests were conducted, it said.  In a separate report, the staff found industry and
government have underfunded research into ways for cleaning up
an oil spill and that technology used in the BP spill was
“dated and inadequate.” The report downplays a theory that
resources are better spent preventing a spill because clean-up
technology is limited once oil enters the water.  “The impacts of the Deepwater Horizon spill would have
been mitigated by better clean-up technology,” the report
found. “Industry has committed little to no funding to in-house
response,” research and development.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net . 