-- Brazil Seeks `Impossible' Return on $2.8 Billion World Cup Site Spending
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f   a n d   J o a o   O l i v e i r a
-- 2010-11-22T23:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/brazil-seeks-impossible-return-on-2-8-billion-world-cup-site-spending.html
Brazil is hiring foreign companies
to attempt what some say is impossible: make a profit on the
country’s $2.8 billion in spending on World Cup stadiums.  Brazilian states are awarding contracts that may be worth
as much as $18 million a year to groups that run  Amsterdam Arena 
and Lisbon’s Estadio da Luz to oversee facilities planned for
the 2014 tournament. New York-based IMG Worldwide Inc. is
looking at sites, chief executive officer  Ted Forstmann  said in
an interview.  Arenas are being constructed in the financial hub of Sao
Paulo through to poorer areas such as the  Amazon state capital,
Manaus . A financial return on the new buildings is
“impossible” because most soccer stadiums are used too
infrequently, according to  Paul Fletcher , a former commercial
director of London’s Wembley Stadium.  “There are white elephant stadiums scattered around the
world,” Fletcher said. “People always say ‘It won’t happen
with us’ but it does and it will with Brazil.”  Amsterdam ArenA Advisory BV won a 35-year deal to run a
stadium in the city of Salvador and wants to manage three more,
said Joao Gilberto Vaz, vice president of its Brazilian unit,
adding its revenue may triple to $18 million a year by 2015.
 Lusoarenas , Desenvolvimento de Empreendimentos e Concessoes SA
is advising or managing stadiums in Sao Paulo, Belo Horizonte,
Recife and Natal, Vice President Marco Antonio Herling said,
without giving financial details.  The companies bring expertise Brazilians don’t have,
according to Nilton Vasconcelos, the Bahia state government
official responsible for sports in the Salvador region. In an e-
mail, Vasconcelos said public authorities and Brazilian building
companies like Odebrecht SA investing in the stadiums are
committed to make them “lucrative.”  IMG’s Plans  IMG, which represents golfer  Tiger Woods , and billionaire
 Eike Batista ’s EBX Group Ltd. said Nov. 9 they are forming a
joint venture to invest in sports and entertainment in Brazil.  “There may be an opportunity before the World Cup to
help” with the stadiums, IMG’s Forstmann said.  Private companies and Zurich, Switzerland-based soccer
ruling body FIFA alone will profit from stadium investment,
while taxpayers pick up the bill, according to Socrates de
Oliveira, captain of Brazil’s 1982 World Cup team.  “The nation won’t get anything from the World Cup,”
Socrates said in an interview.  FIFA generated $1 billion last year, mostly from selling
television and marketing rights to the World Cup.  $19 Million Interest  The federal government is overseeing infrastructure
investment for the World Cup, while state authorities are
responsible for stadiums. Brazil’s state development bank says
it will provide regions with loans of as much as 400 million
reais ($238 million) for each arena. It will charge its long-
term interest rate, currently at 6 percent, plus an extra 1.9
percent per year. That works out as much as $18.8 million a year
in interest payments.  Salvador and other states are unlikely to see a “full”
financial return on the arena investment and are prepared to
cover some of the costs, Amsterdam Arena Advisory general
manager Sander Van Stiphout said in an interview. He declined to
give projected income for the Salvador stadium, citing a
confidentiality agreement.  Outside the U.S., where the market for naming rights and
corporate hospitality is much bigger, most sports stadiums lose
money, Van Stiphout added.  40 Percent Full  Arenas in Brazil were only 40 percent full last year
because they are “dirty and uncomfortable” amid concern about
fan violence, said Amir Somoggi, a director in Sao Paulo of
consultancy Crowe Horwath RCS, which published a report on
soccer in May. Brazil’s growing middle class will help stadium
operators increase income, Lusoarenas’s Herling said, adding the
average ticket price will double to $23.  “People won’t care about paying more if the stadiums are
safe, comfortable and modern,” Herling said.  Amsterdam Arena Advisory plans to help the 50,000-seat
Salvador stadium generate income by hosting two teams, Van
Stiphout said. The arena will also have a restaurant and host
pop concerts, Van Stiphout said.  “What we are doing is using our expertise to get as much
traffic,” Van Stiphout said. “I don’t think it’s fair to say
it’s a white elephant.”  ‘On Tourism Map’  Brazilian authorities say they’re getting more than just
arenas as a legacy. The World Cup will give Brazil a place “on
the global tourism map,” Salvador official Vasconcelos said.
Brazil’s tourism board expects 500,000 tourists for the
tournament that’s also a “chance to anticipate investments”
like urban transportation, Vasconcelos said.  Brazil is using the event and stadium designs as a
marketing tool. Officials are traveling to other regions to show
off the stadiums and were in New York last week to “introduce
the audience to the rich culture and modern architecture/urban
design of Brazil.”  Other World Cup hosts have had questions raised about
spending on new stadiums.  Last month, a  French consortium  canceled plans to lease
Cape Town’s 2010 World Cup stadium for 30 years, citing the
prospect of “substantial losses,” according to the city’s
website. A stadium needs to hold as many as 340 events per year
to turn a profit, according to Marcin Herra, president of the
board overseeing Poland’s preparation for the 2012 European
Championship.  Fletcher, who has overseen 12 U.K. soccer stadiums, says
none made a return on their investment.  “Typically, the architect will design a very beautiful
stadium that looks like a goldfish bowl and the local authority
says that’s just what we want,” Fletcher said. “After the
event, everyone says: what shall we do with it now?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net 
 Joao Oliveira  in Sao Paulo at 
 joliveira4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  