-- California to Sell $1 Billion Tax-Exempts as Issuance Plunges: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l   a n d   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 2010-11-22T20:53:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/california-to-sell-1-billion-tax-exempts-as-issuance-plunges-muni-credit.html
California , which sold more than $13
billion in municipal debt last week as yields jumped the most in
more than 16 years, leads issuers with a $1.125 billion tax-
exempt offering as sales recede to a two-month low.  States and local governments are poised to issue about $7
billion in securities, the least since the  week ended Sept. 10 ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The holiday-shortened
week’s issuance follows $15.5 billion in debt that came to
market last week, the most in seven years.  California is selling after yields on  10-year AAA tax-
exempts  fell 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.98
percent on Nov. 19, the first decrease in more than a week,
according to a Bloomberg Fair  Market  Value index. The
stabilization followed a  13 basis point jump  on Nov. 18, the
biggest one-day surge since April 1994.  “Although the market has turned a corner, California is
going to have to be priced cheaply, as there’s a saturation of
the name at the moment,” said  Mike Pietronico , chief executive
officer of Miller Tabak Asset Management in New York, who
oversees $330 million in municipal debt.  California Treasurer  Bill Lockyer  today increased the size
of the sale to $1.125 billion from $1 billion, said a person
familiar with the sale who requested anonymity because the issue
hasn’t priced. Lockyer acted after individual investors ordered
$987.3 million of bonds. Retail marketing ended today and the
state is moving up pricing of the deal by one day to today.  Extra Yield  The largest portion of bonds offered to individuals, $75
million maturing in 2025, is being offered at a preliminary
yield of 5 percent, according to the person. That’s  97 basis
points  above 15-year AAA rated debt on Nov. 19 and  13 basis
points  less than comparably rated general obligations, according
to Bloomberg Fair Market Value indexes.  The extra yield investors demand above top-rated debt for
five-year general obligations from California issuers  reached 90
basis points  on Nov. 19, the most since July 23, Bloomberg Fair
Market Value data show.  California, the biggest issuer of debt in the municipal
market, is rated A1 by Moody’s Investors Service, its fifth-
highest grade, and A- by Standard & Poor’s, its fourth-lowest
level for investment-quality securities.  The most-populous U.S. state sold $2.5 billion of tax-
exempts on March 11, with 30-year bonds priced to yield 5.65
percent, or 121 basis points above AAA debt, according to a
Bloomberg Fair Market Value index. The so-called spread narrowed
to about 89 basis points on Nov. 19.  Institutional Sales  Institutional investors, such as insurance companies and
mutual funds, are putting in orders today.  “Let’s look back over this week,” said  Tom Dresslar , a
Lockyer spokesman, in a statement on Nov. 19. “We got $6
billion of retail for our short-term notes in a horrible
market.” And high demand led to an increase of $525 million in
the taxable-bond sale last week, he said.  “We’re not struggling,” Dresslar said. “We’re doing a
job that’s vital to California’s fiscal and economic health, and
doing it at the best possible price for taxpayers.”  The state completed its sale of $3.275 billion of taxable
debt on Nov. 19, a day after increasing it almost 20 percent
amid demand for yields that exceed those on some lower-rated
corporate bonds.  325 Basis Points  The sale included $3.025 billion of federally subsidized
Build America Bonds and $250 million of traditional taxable
general-obligation securities. Coupons were set at 3.25
percentage points more than comparable-maturity Treasuries on
$2.11 billion of the Build America debt due in 30 years,
according to Lockyer’s office. That’s a yield of about 7.52
percent.  Earlier in the week,  California  was forced to raise yields
on $10 billion of short-term notes it sold and had to offer
rates on taxable debt that exceed those on some lower-rated
corporate bonds amid the surge in municipal issuance.  “It’s interesting to me that an entity with a $25 billion
deficit over the next 18 months doesn’t pay much of a rate
penalty,”  Jon Schotz , co-managing partner at Saybrook Capital
in Santa Monica, California, who oversees more than $300 million
in municipal bonds, said in a telephone interview.  “At some point, the market should get fed up with their
inability to keep their own house clean,” he said. “If you’re
an investor, this is about a willingness to pay back that debt,
which, if there’s a problem, that’s going to be pretty
interesting.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandra Harris  in New York at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  