-- Cape Wind Power-Contract Granted in Loss for Kennedys
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2010-11-23T13:53:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/cape-wind-power-contract-granted-in-loss-for-kennedys-wal-mart.html
(Corrects to remove reference to first power purchase
agreement in third paragraph. Story first ran on Nov. 22.)  Cape Wind may become the first U.S.
offshore wind farm after Massachusetts regulators approved a
contract permitting it to sell electricity, overcoming critics
including the Kennedy family and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc .  The Massachusetts Department of Public Utilities posted the
decision on its website today. The state’s governor,  Deval Patrick , supported the project as a way to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions and increase renewable energy production.  The contract with utility  National Grid Plc  may pave the
way for an additional 6,300 megawatts in various stages of
development, said  Charlie Hodges , an offshore wind analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance in London. The U.S. generates more
power from wind than any country, all of which is based on land.  “This is a significant win for Cape Wind and may help
build momentum for other offshore wind projects,” Hodges said
before the announcement.  Massachusetts agreed to let National Grid Plc, a London-
based company that delivers power to about 3.3 million customers
in the U.S. Northeast, buy half of Cape Wind’s output for 18.7
cents per kilowatt-hour. That price will increase 3.5 percent
annually for the 15 years of the contract.  Expensive Electricity  That rate is more than three times the average wholesale
power price in the region of $55.02 a megawatt-hour, or 5.5
cents per kilowatt-hour, over the past year.  The developer, closely held Cape Wind Associates LLC, wants
to install as many as 130  Siemens AG  offshore turbines about 5
miles off mainland Cape Cod, in an area known as Horseshoe
Shoal. The project would spread over 25 square miles and would
generate as much as 468 megawatts of power.  At that size, the project would cost about $2.43 billion,
excluding transmission lines that would be needed to deliver the
electricity to Nantucket and Cape Cod, Hodges said.  The timing of the approval will also make it harder for
Cape Wind to tap a federal treasury grant program for 30 percent
of the systems cost, which may deter some investors, Hodges
said. Power projects that want the grant must begin construction
this year unless congress extends it.  “The difficult part is finding anyone to finance it,”
Hodges said.  Kennedy Opposition  The late Senator  Edward Kennedy  fought the project for
almost a decade up to his death last year. Cape Wind backers
have said he was concerned the turbines would spoil view from
the family’s seaside estate on Cape Cod. Environmentalist  Robert F. Kennedy Jr . has called the project a “boondoggle” that will
cost taxpayers billions of dollars and threaten the local
fishing industry.  Wal-Mart objected to being charged transmission fees that
the state says are needed to spread the costs of the project,
even though the world’s biggest retailer won’t be buying any of
Cape Wind’s output. Wal-Mart has already invested in wind
turbines and solar panels at its stores in Massachusetts, and
buys additional power from other suppliers.  The Alliance to Protect Nantucket Sound in Hyannis, a group
of homeowners whose ocean views would be affected, estimates
Cape Wind amounts to a premium on electricity of more than $4
billion over 15 years, said President  Audra Parker .  When completed, the wind farm may generate enough power for
more than 200,000 average U.S. homes, the Interior Department
said when it approved a lease for the Cape Wind site in April.
It will also cut carbon-dioxide pollution from traditional coal-
fired power plants by 700,000 tons a year, the equivalent of
removing 175,000 cars from the road annually.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Martin  in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 