-- Centaline Halts Expansion, Says Hong Kong Home Sales May Halve From Peak
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2010-11-22T16:43:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/centaline-halts-expansion-says-hong-kong-home-sales-may-halve-from-peak.html
Centaline Property Agency Ltd. ,
Hong Kong’s biggest closely held realtor, will halt expansion
because it expects home sales to halve from their high in August
due to government measures introduced to curb speculation.  “We’re holding off on our expansion plans,” Centaline
Chief Executive Officer  Sherman Lai  said in a phone interview.
“While a major downturn is not imminent,” transactions may
drop over the next six months, he said.  Home sales in Hong Kong rose to an almost three-year high
of HK$69.2 billion ($8.9 billion) in August, fueled by low
interest rates and Chinese buyers. Financial Secretary John
Tsang raised transaction fees and deposit requirements and
limited mortgage insurance on Nov. 19, the toughest measures to
rein in prices that have soared 50 percent since January 2009.  “Even if transaction level is only half of the peak, we’ll
still be making decent profit so we won’t be cutting staff
anytime soon,” Lai said.  After Tsang’s announcement, weekend sales of used homes
fell 83 percent from the previous week, according to data from
Centaline.  Midland Holdings Ltd. , the city’s biggest publicly
traded realtor, dropped 17 percent in trading yesterday, the
biggest decline since May 1999.  The stock was cut to “underperform” from “outperform”
by Macquarie Securities Ltd. analysts  Callum Bramah  and  Eva Lee 
in a Nov. 19 report.  Property Agents  Centaline and unit Ricacorp Ltd. employ about 5,000 agents,
20 percent more than the same period two years ago when local
real estate market was hit by the credit crisis, Lai said.  The group fired 20 percent of its workforce and reduced the
number of offices by 25 percent during the crisis. It now has
about 360 branches. Centaline has a market share of about 25
percent based on commission earned, and Ricacorp has 10 percent,
Lai said.  “We’ve probably began downsizing too soon during the last
downturn,” Lai said. “This is the same mistake we’ll be trying
to avoid this time around.”  Albert Wong , senior executive director at Midland, declined
to comment on whether the company will cut staff and close
offices during a press conference yesterday and is unavailable
for an interview, according to spokesman Eric Li.  Property sales in the city were HK$45 billion in October,
according to government figures. Transaction values may fall as
much as a third in November from the previous month, according
to  Buggle Lau , chief analyst at Midland.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.netoomberg.net  