-- Chelsea's Ancelotti Denies He May Quit After Results Dip, Wilkins Ousted
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2010-11-22T14:36:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/chelsea-s-ancelotti-denies-he-may-quit-after-results-dip-wilkins-ousted.html
Chelsea coach  Carlo Ancelotti  denied
he’s considering quitting the Premier League soccer champion.  There’s been media speculation about his future after the
team suffered three defeats in its last four league games and as
Ray Wilkins was dropped as assistant manager. Ancelotti said he
hasn’t offered to quit.  “These rumors are totally untrue, I don’t know why they
came out,” Ancelotti told a televised news conference.  Wilkins has said he was the victim of an “undoubtedly
unfair” dismissal, and the League Managers’ Association is
assisting him after his departure. Chelsea said it will meet the
termination provisions in his contract and is in amicable talks
with his legal advisers.  Ancelotti denied reports that he’d contacted the LMA to
discuss his own position. The 51-year-old Italian said the LMA
called him to ask about the situation at the club.  “They called me last night when I was at home to find out
what was happening,” he said. “I have my contract until 2012,
I’ve said a lot of times that I’d like to stay here.”  Chelsea leads Manchester United on goal difference at the
top of the league after a 1-0 defeat at Birmingham two days ago.
It hosts MSK Zilina tomorrow in the group stage of the Champions
League.  “My position in the club is very clear,” Ancelotti added.
“I am the coach and I have to train my players to maintain the
team, the club, at the best level. Now, this moment is not so
good on the pitch and we have to do better there.”  Ancelotti was named manager in June 2009 on a three-year
contract following his exit from AC Milan, where his trophies
included two wins in European soccer’s elite Champions League
and a Serie A title.  He’s Chelsea’s sixth manager since billionaire  Roman Abramovich  bought the team in 2003, following  Claudio Ranieri ,
Jose Mourinho,  Avram Grant ,  Luiz Felipe Scolari  and Guus
Hiddink.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 