-- China Inflation `Volcano' May Prove Too Hot for Controls After Cash Surge
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-23T07:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/china-inflation-volcano-may-prove-too-hot-for-controls-after-cash-surge.html
Standing near his 12-table noodle
shop on Beijing’s Yonghegong Avenue, owner Liu Heliang says meat
and  vegetable prices  have climbed 10 percent in a year and staff
wages are up 40 percent.  “I’m struggling to make ends meet with costs going up like
this,” said Liu, a native of Sichuan province who pays his
workers as much as 1,800 yuan ($271) a month, or 88 percent more
than the Beijing minimum wage, to serve up a staple Chinese meal.
“Raising prices is the only way out,” he said, predicting he
won’t be able to hold out beyond two months.  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s cabinet last week announced it will
sell grain, cooking-oil and sugar reserves, ordered an end to
tolls on trucks carrying produce and threatened price controls
to rein in a 10 percent  inflation  rate for food. Because the
measures would do nothing to counter the 54 percent surge in
 money supply  over the past two years, the risk is they will
prove insufficient to cope with the challenge.  “They are just not addressing the fundamental problem at
all,” said  Patrick Chovanec , an associate professor at
Beijing’s Tsinghua University. With the expansion of credit and
cash in the economy stemming from China’s response to the global
crisis, “you’re sitting on a volcano,” said Chovanec.  Lagging Behind  The People’s Bank of China has raised its benchmark
interest rates once this year, lagging behind Malaysia, Thailand,
Taiwan and South Korea as emerging Asian economies led the
global economic rebound. Policy makers have instead relied on
guidance to banks to scale back lending and on increases in
reserve ratios, with the PBOC announcing the fifth boost of the
year four days ago.  The  Shanghai Composite Index  tumbled 1.9 percent to
2,828.28 at today’s close, extending the benchmark’s biggest
two-week slide since May, sparked by concern that accelerated
monetary tightening will crimp economic growth.  China’s plans to rein in prices include selling state food
reserves, stabilizing the cost of natural gas and cracking down
on speculation in and hoarding of agricultural products, the
State Council said. The aim is to damp  food inflation  that
reached 10 percent in October, more than twice the 4.4 percent
headline rate.  Inflation Outlook  Standard Chartered Plc economists anticipate the consumer
price index will rise by an average of 5.5 percent next year,
with a peak gain of 6.3 percent in June. The bank estimates this
year’s increase at 3.2 percent. That compares with a 0.7 percent
decline in 2009.  China will sell soybeans and vegetable oil from its
stockpiles starting this week to stabilize prices, the State
Administration of Grain said in a statement Nov. 19. State news
agency Xinhua reported the next day that the cabinet ordered
local governments to ensure food supplies ban toll collections
for vehicles carrying fresh foods.  The People’s Daily, a newspaper published by the Communist
party, called on the government to expand the number of
commodities for which reserves are kept. The quantities of and
distributions from existing stockpiles should also be increased,
the paper said in an editorial on its front page today.  Chinese corn, sugar and rice futures have reached records
in the past two weeks on concern supplies may lag behind demand.  Food Aid  The State Council meeting last week came amid concern at
the threat increased food costs pose to the poorest people in
the world’s most populous nation. More than 81 million people in
disaster-affected parts of China may need food assistance from
the government this winter, the Ministry of Civil Affairs said
on its website on Nov. 18.  At a food market in Beijing’s Deshengmennei Avenue, fruit-
stand owner Wang Yanling says sales of apples have slumped from
as much as 250 kilograms (551 pounds) a day a year ago to about
100 kilograms a day after prices soared more than 60 percent.  “People are buying less with prices jumping up,” said
Wang. “It’s getting harder and harder to sell.”  McDonald’s Corp. , the world’s largest restaurant chain,
said Nov 17. that it increased prices for its burgers, drinks
and snacks in China to offset costs.  A slowing pace of economic growth may prove helpful in
damping down inflation. China’s  gross domestic product  expanded
9.6 percent in the third quarter from a year before, down from
10.3 percent in the previous three months and 11.9 percent in
January to March.  Vegetable Dilemma  A rate increase “can’t encourage farmers to grow more
vegetables, it can’t discourage people from eating less
vegetables,”  Qu Hongbin , co-head of Asian economic research at
HSBC Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview.  China also is grappling with inflows of cash sparked by
monetary easing abroad, bets on yuan gains and a trade surplus
that surged last month to $27 billion. Officials have faulted
the U.S. Federal Reserve’s plan to buy $600 billion of Treasury
securities for contributing to asset-price pressures in Asia.  “Quantitative easing in the U.S. puts China’s seat to the
fire because it forces more inflationary pressure onto them,”
said  Diana Choyleva , a Hong Kong-based economist at Lombard
Street Research Asia. “They cannot avoid what they need to
do,” which is raise rates or let the yuan strengthen, she said.  Currency Policy  Policy makers have limited the currency’s appreciation to
less than 3 percent since scrapping in June an almost two-year
crisis policy of keeping the yuan level with the dollar to
protect the nation’s exporters. It was at 6.6449 as of 12:32 p.m.
Hong Kong time.  The PBOC will raise the benchmark one-year  deposit  and
 lending rates  by year-end, from the current levels of 5.56
percent and 2.5 percent, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
nine economists last week.  China’s  biggest banks  are approaching annual lending quotas
and plan to stop expanding their loan books to avoid exceeding
the limits, according to four people with knowledge of the
matter.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. ,  Bank of
China Ltd.  and  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  are only
extending new loans as existing ones get repaid, the people said,
speaking on condition of anonymity.  While price controls may help with inflation expectations,
they will either be ineffective because producers circumvent
them or create shortages if suppliers suffer losses and are not
compensated, said Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economists  Yu Song 
and  Helen Qiao  in a Nov. 17 note.  Shrinking Margins  “Prices for everything are rising every day -- no
exception,” said Zhu Fulong, 35, who has run a grocery shop in
Hangzhou, a city near Shanghai, with his wife since 2006. “A
lot of people won’t increase their spending much, so they
instead choose products at lower grade which we sell at thinner
margins, and that’s hurting our business.”  Rising prices are also prompting housewives like Lily Huang,
50, to travel once a month to Hong Kong from Shenzhen in
southern China to stock up on items including toothpaste,
shampoo and tissues.  “Things are much cheaper here,” said Huang, carrying a
suitcase and three bags full of groceries at Sheung Shui train
station next to Hong Kong’s border with China. A packet of Tempo
tissues is 30 percent cheaper in Hong Kong, she said. “It’s
really worth the trouble for us to come here to shop.”  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Kevin Hamlin  in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  