-- Church of England Calls for BSkyB Deal to Be Blocked
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-11-22T17:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/church-of-england-says-it-opposes-news-corp-s-bskyb-deal.html
The Church of England said it
opposes  Rupert Murdoch’s  News. Corp.’s 7.8 billion-pound ($12.4
billion) bid for the rest of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc ,
joining newspapers and other broadcasters in resisting the deal.  News Corp. would “dominate both the television and media
landscape,” the Bishop of Manchester,  Nigel McCulloch,  said
today in a  statement  on the church’s website. In a submission to
media regulator Ofcom, the church said the proposed deal should
be blocked.  Business Secretary  Vince Cable  has directed Ofcom to review
whether the takeover of Britain’s largest pay-TV operator by the
owner of four of the biggest-selling U.K. newspapers would give
too much media control to News Corp. U.K. newspapers, the
British Broadcasting Corp. and phone company BT Group Plc have
called for the bid to be challenged.  McCulloch has considered media ownership before as a member
of the House of Lords communications committee. The committee
said in 2008 that there was a risk that consolidation among news
owners could have a disproportionate influence in the U.K.  There is an “ongoing need for strong and effective
regulation of cross-media ownership and media plurality,”
McCulloch said today. “At the very minimum,” the U.K.
government should require an assurance that the independence and
editorial integrity of Sky News, BSkyB’s 24-hour news channel,
will be preserved, he said.  Church Investments  The Church Commissioners, the investment arm for the
church,  manage s 4.8 billion pounds to provide pensions for
priests and other clergy, according to its annual report.  News Corp., attempting to gain from the steady subscription
business of Britain’s biggest pay-TV operator, this month asked
the European Union to approve its proposed bid for the 61
percent of BSkyB that it doesn’t already own. BSkyB in June
rejected the initial 700 pence a share offer, saying it was too
low. The companies are seeking regulatory approval before a new
offer is made.  News Corp., which owns Britain’s biggest tabloid, the Sun,
and also the Times and Sunday Times newspapers, said in a
response to McCulloch’s comments that “there has been an
increase in plurality in U.K. media with more people consuming
news from more sources than ever before.”  BSkyB said in a separate submission to Ofcom today that the
regulator should limit its probe of the national news aspects of
the deal.  Sky News only has a “small” 7 percent market share of the
U.K. national TV news market, the pay-TV broadcaster said. BSkyB
offers more than 240 channels as part of a basic television
package and this month hit a target of 10 million subscribers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 