-- CIBC Favoring Telus, Wireless Carriers on Debt Refinancing: Canada Credit
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2010-11-22T05:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/cibc-favoring-telus-wireless-carriers-on-debt-refinancing-canada-credit.html
CIBC Global Asset Management Inc.’s
 John Braive , who oversees C$42 billion ($41 billion) in fixed-
income assets, favors Canada’s wireless operators including
Telus Corp. for their growth potential.  Spurred on by the arrival of four new carriers in the past
year, Vancouver-based  Telus ,  BCE Inc.  and  Rogers Communications
Inc.  have refinanced debt, cut jobs and reinvested the savings
in their fastest-growing businesses.  Braive holds debt of all three carriers and said Telus is
his favorite pick, helped by its “western presence” in Canada,
where economic growth has outpaced that of eastern Canada. The
CIBC Canadian bond fund has returned 8.2 percent this year,
excluding fees, compared with 6.9 percent for the median of
similar funds and 7.8 percent for the benchmark Dex Universe
Bond Index, according to CIBC data.  “The carriers really did work hard to drive down their
cost structure, deal with their legacy issues, their labor
issues specifically,” said Toronto-based Braive, who is vice
chairman of CIBC Global Asset Management and has been managing
fixed-income assets since 1983. “Now they’re expanding into the
wireless sector, and that’s becoming a very profitable sector as
more people go wireless.”  Telus’s yields premium hasn’t shrunk as much as its peers
this year, meaning Canada’s third-largest wireless company’s
 debt  has scope to outperform. The extra yield investors demand
to own Telus bonds instead of government debt ended last week at
148 basis points, compared with 147 basis points on Dec. 31,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Industrial Debt  The spread on Merrill’s broader index of industrial debt,
which tracks 358 bonds including Telus’s and has a par value of
C$99 billion, has narrowed to 147 basis points from 156 at the
end of 2009. Relative yields on Merrill’s index of Canadian
bonds rated BBB, including Telus, tightened to 182 from 199.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the spread on Canadian
corporate debt held at 135 basis points last week, down from 143
at the end of October, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data. Yields jumped to 3.86 percent from 3.77 percent on
Nov. 12 and are the highest since mid-September.  Spreads on investment-grade U.S. corporate debt narrowed 1
basis point to 175, or 1.75 percentage points, while globally
the gap shrank 2 basis points to 165.  Relative yields on Canada’s provincial bonds expanded 1
basis point to 52. Provincial yields jumped to 3.24 percent, the
highest since the first week of August, from 3.14 percent.  Quebec Bonds  Last week, Quebec, Canada’s second-most populous province
after Ontario, issued C$500 million in a reoffering of its 4.5
percent bonds due in December 2020, bringing the total
outstanding to C$4.5 billion. The debt was priced to yield 81
basis points over similar-maturity federal bonds.  Canada’s company debt has lost investors 1.12 percent this
month, paring the gain this year to 6.66 percent. While that’s
better than the 5.6 percent return on Canada’s federal debt, it
trails the 8.05 percent for global corporate bonds.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year bond fell last week, pushing the
 yield  up 13 basis points to 3.15 percent. The price of the 3.5
percent security maturing in June 2020 dropped C$1.11 to
C$102.90. The yield touched 3.16 percent, the highest level
since Aug. 13.  Fortis BC Inc., which provides electricity to customers in
south central British Columbia, sold C$100 million of 5 percent
bonds last week that are due in November 2050. The debt priced
to yield 135 basis points more than Canada’s 5 percent bond due
in June 2037.  Beating Estimates  Telus, whose  shares  have climbed 36 percent this year,
reported third-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates,
helped by a surge in new wireless subscribers and lower
reorganization costs.  The company issued C$1 billion of notes in December and the
same amount again in July, refinancing C$2 billion of C$3
billion in outstanding  debt  leftover from its acquisition of
Clearnet Inc. in 2000. Lower rates will save the company C$68
million a year, said a Telus spokesman,  Shawn Hall .  That makes a compelling case for refinancing the rest
before interest rates rise, said  Jonathan Allen , an analyst at
Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets in Toronto. “Telus
is likely to come to the market in the next few months to fund
the remaining C$1 billion,” he wrote in a note this month.  Credit Line  Telus won’t say if that’s going to happen. The company does
have a C$2 billion bank  credit facility  it can tap to repay the
remaining C$1 billion due in June, 2011, Hall said.  BCE , Canada’s largest phone company, may tap debt markets
again after agreeing in September to spend C$1.3 billion on the
shares of broadcaster CTV it didn’t already own.  The current bond climate “makes it very attractive for us
to go to the market as soon as that acquisition is completed”
to tap lower rates, BCE Chief Financial Officer  Siim Vanaselja 
told analysts this month. No one should rule out BCE’s acting in
the next quarter, he said.  Quebecor Inc. , based in Montreal, is the latest to
challenge the “big three” -- Telus, Rogers and BCE. The
company launched a mobile-phone service in Quebec through its
Videotron unit, which already offers cable television service
and supplies unlimited calling plans designed to undercut Bell.  “Quebecor looks like they have a good business plan, and
they do look cheap compared to others in the space,” said
Braive. “They haven’t done a lot of issuance, and they’re
cheaper than other telcos and cable, and there’s an expectation
that we’re going to see some financing by Quebecor upcoming.”  Junk Bonds  CIBC owns Quebecor debt as part of its high-yield
portfolio, he said.  The Bank of Canada issued a report last week saying local
investor demand is rising for junk bonds, or high-yield, high-
risk debt, with the volume of mutual funds dedicated to that
part of the fixed-income market growing to C$9.5 billion at the
end of 2009 from C$4.4 billion a year earlier.  High-yield debt sales may expand if more firms convert back
into corporations from income trusts after tax changes effective
next year, the report said.  “Money’s flowing out of what used to be going into the
income-trust sector, and part of that has been picked up in the
high-yield market,” said Braive. “Definitely there is the
attractiveness of the higher yields, and the spread is pretty
attractive. Even if it’s come off its high, it’s well above the
long-term average.”  Merrill’s Canada High Yield Index, comprising 16 issues at
a par value of C$4.4 billion, ended last week at a spread of 497
basis points, compared with 697 at the end of 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  