-- Clement to Consider Raising Telecom Ownership Limits
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-11-22T19:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/clement-to-start-consultation-on-next-auctions-of-canada-wireless-spectrum.html
Canada will consider raising foreign
ownership limits for telephone providers such as  BCE Inc . before
it moves ahead with the sale of wireless spectrum, Industry
Minister  Tony Clement  said today.  Canada plans to auction 700-megahertz spectrum by 2012,
Clement said today in a speech in Ottawa. The governing
Conservative Party next year will also begin consultations on
selling 2500-megahertz spectrum, Clement said.  Changing the rules on foreign ownership “would have to
come before the auction,” Clement told reporters after the
speech, because participating companies would need to know “how
the auction is going to work” and “what their sources of
capital are going to be.”  The government said in June it will consider eliminating or
raising the 47 percent cap on foreign ownership to increase
competition in the C$40 billion ($39.2 billion) industry. At the
time, Clement said the consultations would last until July 30
and the government would introduce legislation “as quickly as
possible.”  In his speech today, Clement said he has been consulting
“throughout the summer on whether the current restrictions
constitute an impediment to growth,” adding that “how spectrum
is allocated and who is eligible to compete for it, and pay for
it, are interrelated issues.”  New Companies  “By spring of next year, I will be in a position to assess
how all these elements fit together and decide on the best way
forward,” Clement, 49, said.  Canadian telephone companies, including  Telus Corp . and
 Rogers Communications  Inc., bid C$4.25 billion ($4.18 billion)
for  wireless  airwaves in the country’s last auction in 2008. In
that sale, Canada set aside some spectrum for new companies.
Clement’s consultations may examine if the government should do
the same at the next auction and if it should sell the 700-MHz
and 2500-MHz spectrum at the same time.  Airwaves in the 700-MHz area will become available when
analog television broadcasting ends next year.  AT&T Inc.  and
 Verizon Communications Inc ., which bought spectrum in that range
last year, say radio signals can be sent farther and more
effectively using less power at that frequency.  Clement also said Canada is asking its financing agencies
to encourage companies to invest in information and
communication technologies. He said the  Business Development
Bank  of Canada will make “ICT adoption a core part of its
mandate,” Clement said. “I have also asked the BDC to more
aggressively market its financial products that provide
companies with the capital they need to purchase new
equipment.”  Similarly, Export Development Canada is looking at new ways
to encourage companies to invest in research and development and
commercialization, Clement said. “This is a critical
reorientation by EDC,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 