-- PetroChina Will Increase Diesel Imports, Boost Refining to Ease Shortages
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-22T03:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/cnpc-imports-diesel-boosts-operating-rates-at-refineries-to-ease-shortage.html
PetroChina Co. , the country’s
biggest oil and gas producer, is planning additional diesel
imports to help ease a domestic shortage after buying 200,000
metric tons from overseas.  Additional diesel will be imported “according to market
needs,” China National Petroleum Corp., PetroChina’s parent,
said in a statement on its website today, without giving a
schedule. One 35,000-ton cargo has already arrived, CNPC said.  China is battling a shortage of the fuel as demand from
farmers increases during the autumn harvest and factories turn
to their own diesel-powered generators after some local
authorities shut power supplies to save energy.  China Petroleum
& Chemical Corp. , the nation’s largest refiner, has halted
diesel exports, parent China Petrochemical Corp. said on Nov. 19.  PetroChina will increase oil processing volumes at its
Lanzhou, Dalian, Guangxi and Qingyang plants, CNPC said.
Scheduled maintenance at its Lanzhou refinery will be delayed
until December, according to CNPC.  More than 2,000 service stations closed after running out
of diesel, the official Xinhua News agency said on Nov. 7.
Supplies in other cities including Beijing, Shanghai, Chongqing,
Dalian and Wuhan are also tight, according to Xinhua.  China’s daily diesel consumption averaged 420,000 tons in
the first nine months, according to Bloomberg calculations based
on government data. Monthly diesel imports averaged 126,666 tons
in the January to September period.  PetroChina has diverted 206,000 tons of diesel from
northeastern China to the southern and eastern provinces
including Zhejiang and Guangdong, CNPC said.  -- Wang Ying . With assistance from  Chua Baizhen . Editors:  Ryan Woo .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wang Ying in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 