-- Commercial Property Prices in U.S. Rose 4.3% in September, Most on Record
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2010-11-22T20:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/commercial-property-prices-in-u-s-increase-the-most-on-record-moody-says.html
U.S. commercial property prices rose
4.3 percent in September from the previous month, the biggest
gain in a decade of records, Moody’s Investors Service said.  The Moody’s/REAL Commercial Property Price  Index  climbed
0.3 percent from a year earlier as a small number of high-priced
deals drove up values, Moody’s said in a statement today. The
measure had fallen to an eight-year low in August.  “Each of the summer months this year recorded declines in
the 3 percent to 4 percent range, followed by this month’s
sizeable uptick,”  Nick Levidy , a Moody’s managing director in
New York, said in the statement. “The relatively large swings
seen in the index recently are due in part to the uncertain
macroeconomic environment and the effects of a thin market with
low transaction volumes.”  Demand is rising for the best office buildings in major
markets such as New York and Washington as investors seek
returns higher than fixed income. Interest in well-leased
commercial properties in smaller markets may also be starting to
increase, according to  Robert Bach , chief economist for  Grubb &
Ellis Co ., a Santa Ana, California-based commercial broker.  “The demand is still focused at the core end of the
spectrum,” Bach said before the report. “Investors may be
broadening their parameters just a little bit.”  43% Below Peak  The Moody’s/REAL index is still 43 percent below its
October 2007 peak. The gauge measures overall commercial
property values on a monthly basis and breaks the numbers down
by property type once each quarter. The changes are based on
repeat sales transactions.  While the number of repeat sales had only a “slight
uptick” in September, the dollar volume of those transactions
doubled from August to $3.7 billion, according to Moody’s. That
was the largest volume since January 2008, the company said.  The biggest single-property sale to close in September was
a $208 million deal for Union Bank Plaza, a 627,000 square-foot
(58,250 square-meter) office building on South Figueroa Street
in Los Angeles, according to Real Capital Analytics Inc., a New
York-based firm that tracks commercial real estate sales.  Apartment buildings have led prices higher, rising almost
16 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, Moody’s
reported. An index of retail properties fell about 12 percent in
that time, while industrial buildings dropped 1.2 percent.
Office property values increased 4.4 percent.  Top 10 Areas  Office prices in the top 10 metropolitan areas jumped 22
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, the most of
any property type in major cities. Prices gained 9.4 percent
from the previous three months.  Moody’s defines the top 10 metropolitan areas as the ones
with the most transactions by dollar volume.  New York , Los
Angeles, Washington, San Francisco, Atlanta and Chicago are
included in the rankings for all four property types.  Two competing indexes show national commercial property
prices rising at a faster rate. Green Street Advisors, a real
estate research company in Newport Beach, California, reported
Nov. 2 that values are up 24 percent in the 12 months through
October. Its property index is 21 percent below its 2007 peak.  CoStar Group Inc., a real estate data service based in
Bethesda, Maryland, found that prices for investment-grade
properties in the U.S. rose 5.5 percent in September. Values are
down 4.9 percent from a year earlier and 29 percent from two
years ago, according to the company.  CoStar, unlike Moody’s, tracks transactions below $2.5
million. CoStar also limits its index to Class A and B offices,
the highest-quality buildings; retail and industrial properties
built since 1990; and multifamily buildings of 30 units or more.  Green Street’s index includes deals that are in negotiation
or under contract, while Moody’s tracks only closed sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Louis  in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net ;
 David M. Levitt  in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 