-- Copper Prices Decline as Chinese Imports Slump to One-Year Low
-- B y   Y i   T i a n   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2010-11-22T19:21:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/copper-fluctuates-as-euro-strengthens-metal-imports-into-china-fall-30-.html
Copper fell for the first time in
four sessions as imports by China, the world’s largest consumer,
slid to a one-year low.  Refined-copper  imports  declined 30 percent in October to
169,897 metric tons from a month earlier, General Administration
of Customs data showed. In the previous two weeks, copper prices
dropped 2.7 percent on concern that demand may ebb as China
moves to damp inflation.  The decline in Chinese imports “is definitely weighing on
the market,” said  Michael K. Smith , the president of T&K
Futures & Options in Port St. Lucie, Florida. Speculation that
China will increase borrowing costs caused copper to “sell off
a little bit,” he said.  Copper futures for March delivery dropped 8.05 cents, or
2.1 percent, to close at $3.762 a pound at 1:22 p.m. on the
Comex in New York. The price gained 3 percent in the previous
three sessions.  This year, the metal has climbed 12 percent, while
 inventories  monitored by exchanges in London, New York and
Shanghai have declined 20 percent.  Prices also fell today as some workers at Anglo American
Plc and Xstrata Plc’s Collahuasi venture in Chile accepted a
wage offer to end a strike. The site is the world’s fourth-
biggest copper mine. Wage negotiations may resume as early as
today, according to a union leader.  “Reports of a partial acceptance of the wage proposal at
the Collahuasi mine in Chile will begin to test the resolve of
the bulls,”  Alex Heath , the head of industrial-metals trading
at Royal Bank of Canada Europe Ltd. in London, said in a report.  CFTC Data  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators decreased
their net-long position by 14 percent in New York copper futures
in the week ended Nov. 16, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission said on Nov. 19. Net-long positions, or bets on
higher prices, fell by 4,129 contracts from a week earlier.  Prices may fall to $3.60 in two weeks before rebounding,
Smith of T&K Futures said. “There are different worries out
there, but the basic fundamental is growth,” he said.  Copper for delivery in three months declined $114, or 1.4
percent, to $8,290 a metric ton ($3.76 a pound) on the London
Metal Exchange. Nickel, zinc, lead and tin also dropped.
Aluminum gained.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yi Tian  in New York at 
 Ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 