-- Copper, Aluminum Advance in London Trading as Dollar Slumps: LME Preview
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-22T09:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/copper-gains-in-london-as-dollar-drop-boosts-demand-correct-.html
Copper led an advance in base metals
after Ireland sought international help to avoid becoming the
second euro nation to need a rescue, preventing potential
contagion and boosting the global economic outlook.  The metal for three-month delivery climbed as much as 1.3
percent to $8,516.75 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange,
and traded at $8,444 at 4:38 p.m. Singapore time. Aluminum
increased 1.5 percent to $2,293.75 a ton and zinc gained 1.5
percent to $2,191.75 a ton.  “Copper is seeking direction amid an unclear macro picture
in China, so it’s prone to be moved by the dollar and outside
markets in the short term,” Liang Haisan, an analyst at Citic
Newedge Futures Co., said by phone from Shanghai.  Irish Prime Minister Brian Cowen said on Nov. 21 in Dublin
that he expects talks on the details of financial assistance for
the country to be completed in the “next few weeks.” Finance
Minister Brian Lenihan said the loan will be less than 100
billion euros ($137 billion).  The euro rose for a fourth day against the dollar, reaching
a one-week high after European Union finance ministers said the
deal will create a capital fund for Ireland’s lenders. The
Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the currencies
of six major U.S. trading partners including the euro, yen and
pound, declined for a fourth day, losing as much as 0.7 percent.  Concern that tightening measures to cool inflation in China
may have a negative impact on demand for commodities is
exaggerated, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a note today.  “While the property sector in China will likely slow going
into 2011 and there may be oversupply concern in the sector next
year, there are enough infrastructure projects in the pipeline
to ensure that fundamentals for China’s commodity demand will
remain strong next year,” the report said.  Ratio Hike  China, the world’s largest metals consumer, ordered banks
to set aside larger reserves for the second time in two weeks,
raising the requirement 50 basis points starting Nov. 29, the
central bank said on its website after Chinese markets closed
Nov. 19. The aim is to step up liquidity management and
“appropriately control” credit and loans, it said.  China’s reserve-ratio increase provided temporary relief to
the market today,  Tan Wentao , an analyst at HNA Topwin Futures,
said by phone from Shanghai. “In this round of price controls,
agricultural products are in focus, so metals should be less
affected,” Tan said.  Copper for March delivery in Shanghai declined 1.3 percent
to close at 63,420 yuan ($9,550) a ton.  China’s inflation may reach 6.3 percent next year, so the
country may raise interest rates and the reserve requirement
ratio by at least 150 basis points each over the next year to
fight inflation, the Securities Times cited Tao Dong, a Credit
Suisse Group AG economist in Hong Kong, as saying.  Imports Slump  Imports by China tumbled to the lowest level in two years,
according to data provided by the customs department today.
Shipments declined 30 percent to 169,897 tons in October, the
lowest level since November 2008, as ample domestic supply and
high international prices deterred buyers.  Copper stockpiles monitored by the Shanghai Futures
Exchange increased to the highest level in five months as of
Nov. 19. Inventories of copper gained for a third week, adding
11,313 tons to 126,736 tons, based on a survey of seven
warehouses in Shanghai, the exchange said on its website.  Lead in London advanced 1 percent to $2,300 a ton, nickel
gained 1 percent to $22,060 a ton and tin increased 0.8 percent
to $25,200 a ton.  -- Helen Sun . Editors: Matthew Oakley, Jarrett Banks.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Helen Sun  in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpool4@bloomberg.net  