-- Corn, Soybean Prices Pare Advances in Chicago Trading as Dollar Rebounds
-- B y   J a e   H u r
-- 2010-11-22T14:14:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/corn-rallies-from-seven-week-low-as-dollar-drops-wheat-soybeans-advance.html
Corn and soybeans pared advances in
Chicago as the dollar rebounded, after sliding on optimism that
an agreement to rescue Ireland’s banks will prevent contagion
from spreading across European debt markets.  Corn for March delivery added 0.1 percent to $5.355 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 2:14 p.m. Paris time.
The grain had risen as much as 2.2 percent earlier.  “Grains and other commodities were reacting very
sensitively to the dollar’s move,” said  Han Sung Min , a broker
at Korea Exchange Bank Futures Co. in Seoul. “The dollar’s
decline stoked bargain-hunting after prices fell last week on
concern over slowing Chinese demand.”  Ireland accepted an international bailout yesterday. The
accord will create a capital fund for Ireland’s banks and may
end up “restructuring” the financial industry, European Union
finance ministers said. The U.S. Dollar Index, a six-currency
gauge of the greenback’s strength, slid as much as 0.7 percent
today before erasing the decline.  Soybeans for January delivery advanced 0.8 percent to
$12.115 a bushel. The oilseed earlier gained as much as 1.7
percent.  “The rescue plan for Ireland this weekend caused a rebound
of the euro, and due to this, of the dollar-priced commodity
markets,” Paris-based farm adviser Agritel said in a report on
its website.  Soybean Demand  Corn lost 2.4 percent last week as moves by China to slow
its economy threatened to curb demand for imports. Soybeans
slumped 5.3 percent, the most since Oct. 1. The Asian country is
the biggest consumer of soybeans and the second-largest user of
corn after the U.S.  China ordered its banks to set aside larger reserves for
the fifth time this year, draining cash from the financial
system to limit inflation.  For grains, “prices tumbled on Friday as news of the
increase in the Chinese reserve requirements weighed heavily
upon all markets,” economist  Dennis Gartman  wrote in his daily
newsletter.  Wheat for March delivery rose 0.2 percent to $6.855 a
bushel after dropping 3.6 percent last week. Milling wheat for
January delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in Paris slipped 0.2
percent to 211.50 euros ($288.59) a metric ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jae Hur  in Tokyo at   jhur1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  