-- PBOC Loan Curbs Widen Corporate Yield Gap Most Since Lehman: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-22T19:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/corporate-bond-yield-gap-widens-most-since-lehman-china-credit.html
The premium investors demand to hold
China’s corporate bonds rather than sovereign debt widened the
most in two years last week on concern that central bank curbs
on lending will cause trading in the securities to slow.  The  gap  between yields on 10-year notes issued by state-
controlled companies with top debt ratings and similar-dated
government bonds grew 16 basis points to 104 basis points, the
biggest increase since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for
bankruptcy in September 2008, according to Chinabond data. The
spread was 81 on Nov. 5, the narrowest since July 2007, and
averaged 135 in the past three years.  “As liquidity becomes tighter, brokerages and mutual
funds, who trade more frequently than banks and insurers, are
selling corporate debt for cash-type securities,” said  Jiang Chao , a Shanghai-based analyst at Guotai Junan Securities Co.,
China’s largest brokerage by revenue. “The yield gap may widen
further in the short run in reaction to tightening measures.”  Policy makers ordered lenders to set aside more funds as
reserves twice this month and raised interest rates in October
for the first time since 2007, seeking to rein in credit growth
amid the fastest inflation in two years. That’s leaving finance
companies with less to invest in corporate debt after the value
of outstanding notes in the interbank market jumped 39 percent
in the last 10 months to 3.36 trillion yuan ($506 billion).  Drains Cash  The People’s Bank of China ordered banks to set aside
larger reserves for the fifth time this year on Nov. 19,
boosting the proportion of deposits that must be set aside by
half a percentage point to 18 percent for the nation’s largest
lenders. The move will drain about 350 billion yuan from the
financial system, Bank of America Merrill Lynch estimates.  “The bond market still needs time to digest the impact of
the central bank’s reserve-ratio increase, and we are not
optimistic on the direction of the bond market in the short-
term,”  Citic Securities Co.  analysts  Wang Mingfeng  and  Guo Qinmiao  wrote in a research note yesterday.  The yield on 10-year government  bonds  climbed five basis
points yesterday to 3.92 percent, while the rate on  corporate
debt  rated AAA increased 6 basis points to 4.97 percent, data
from Chinabond, the nation’s largest debt-clearing house, show.
The difference between the two has narrowed 34 basis points this
year as regulators eased restrictions on corporate-bond
ownership, enabling insurers to hold more of the securities and
allowing approved overseas banks to invest.  U.S. Yield Gap  Top-rated U.S. corporate bonds with maturities of seven to
10 years yielded 68 basis points more than Treasuries at the end
of last week, 10 basis points more than at the start of 2010,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Corporate
Index. Microsoft Corp.’s 3 percent notes due October 2020
yielded 3.34 percent, 47 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The 5.28 percent bond due April 2020 issued by China Datang
Corp., the nation’s second-largest power producer, yielded 4.91
percent yesterday, 107 basis points more than government bonds,
according to data from the National Interbank Funding Center.
The spread was 86 at the end of October.  Lending curbs reduce liquidity in the corporate-bond
market, eroding the attraction of the securities, according to
 Chen Jianbo , a fixed-income analyst at BOC International (China)
Ltd.  “It’s harder to sell corporate bonds for cash than
treasury debt when liquidity is becoming tighter,” said Chen,
who is based in Beijing. “Banks also reduce purchases of
corporate bonds toward year-end to meet annual reporting
requirements for capital-adequacy ratios, intensifying liquidity
pressure for those bonds.”  Yuan Outlook  Speculation the yuan will strengthen is helping attract
overseas investors to China’s bonds, supporting the market, said
 Tan Weisi , who oversees about 400 million yuan as head of
Fortune SGAM Fund Management Co.’s fixed-income arm in Shanghai.  “China’s bond market is much more attractive for overseas
than domestic investors, given expected yuan appreciation,” Tan
said. “They get at least 6 percent from company bond yields and
yuan appreciation is about 5 percent, so we are talking about 10
percent from bond investment. That’s very attractive.”  The yuan has strengthened 2.8 percent to 6.6416 per dollar
since a two-year peg ended on June 19 and 12-month non-
deliverable forwards reflect bets for a similar gain in the
coming year.  Hong Kong-based Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
(Asia) Ltd., Standard Chartered Plc and HSBC Holdings Plc have
received approvals to invest in China’s interbank bond market,
after the central bank relaxed curbs in August. Previously,
overseas firms could put funds only into China’s exchange-traded
debt using quotas allowed under the Qualified Foreign
Institutional Investors program.  Rate Rises  Corporate debt traded on China’s interbank market has
handed investors a  loss  of 1.7 percent this month, trimming
gains for the year to 5 percent, Chinabond data show. That
compares with a 1 percent loss on  government securities .  Bonds slumped in the past month after the central bank
raised its benchmark one-year lending and deposit rates by a
quarter of a percentage point on Oct. 19, the first  increases 
since 2007, to help contain inflation. Consumer prices rose 4.4
percent from a year earlier in October, the biggest gain since
September 2008.  One-year interest-rate  swaps , the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase  rate , jumped 21 basis
points yesterday to a two-year high of 2.99 percent. Five-year
swaps climbed 7 basis points to 3.87 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Bond Risk  Contracts insuring bonds of companies with domestic AAA
ratings cost 82 basis points, or 82,000 yuan a year per 10
million yuan of debt yesterday, according to quotes from 12
financial institutions compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest
in the two weeks that data has been available.  Chinese government dollar bond risk rose, credit-default
swaps show. Five-year contracts on the nation’s debt gained 1.2
basis points to 59.8 basis points, according to CMA prices.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to debt agreements.  Moody’s Investors Service raised China’s debt rating to its
fourth-highest ranking on Nov. 11, citing the nation’s financial
strength and ability to contain losses from a credit boom.  -- Belinda Cao . With assistance from  Frances Yoon  in Seoul and
 Henry Sanderson  in Beijing. Editors:  James Regan ,  Sandy Hendry   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Belinda Cao in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570 or
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ; 