-- Couch Potatoes Prop Up Viacom, ProSieben in TV Market Battle
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l ,   S i m o n   T h i e l   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-11-22T00:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/couch-potatoes-prop-up-viacom-prosieben-in-tv-market-battle.html
Apple Inc. , Google Inc. and Hulu LLC
are working on technologies they say will transform how people
watch television. Nobody told the couch potatoes.  Traditional TV watching has retained its popularity even as
the options for online and on-demand content delivery multiply.
While broadcasters themselves are experimenting with new
delivery models, their core business -- beaming scheduled
programs into viewers’ living rooms -- has proved resilient.  “TV viewing is at an all-time high,”  Philippe Dauman ,
chief executive officer of  Viacom Inc. , the owner of MTV
Networks and Comedy Central, said in interview in Avignon,
France this month. “The sector that we’re in is, in some ways,
leading the economy.”  In the U.S., the world’s biggest television market, the
amount of time spent watching TV has risen, according to ratings
company  Nielsen Co.  The average American viewer watched two more
hours of TV per month in the first quarter of 2010 compared with
the same period last year. In the  second quarter , the year-on-
year figure held steady.  “There’s inertia in terms of where people spend their time
that’s stronger than we expected,” said Charlie Kim, the head
of the Americas media practice at consulting firm  Bain & Co.   Still, new video options may push the TV market toward a
tipping point, requiring an overhaul of business models, he
said. The Nielsen numbers capture the trend. While watching TV
at home rose 0.6 percent in the first quarter, so-called
timeshifting, which includes digital video recorders and video-
on-demand, advanced 18 percent and viewing on mobile phones
climbed 51 percent.  Shifting Scene  TV watching “is shifting,”  Jean-Bernard Levy , CEO of
 Vivendi SA , which controls France’s biggest pay-TV service,
Canal Plus, said at a conference in Barcelona, Spain last week.  “A lot of the viewership for many, many years will be on
linear programming,” he said, referring to TV watching with a
schedule set by broadcasters. “But we are working hard and
doing well in terms of catching eyeballs in other formats.”  For now, the absence of a mass exodus from living room TV
sets to devices like Apple’s iPad is encouraging broadcasters.  Concern about the rising consumption of on-demand offerings
is “pretty exaggerated,”  Thomas Ebeling , chief executive
officer of ProSiebenSat.1 AG, Germany’s biggest private
broadcaster, said in an interview in Barcelona. “Consumers want
shows and events that bring family and friends together in front
of the TV set and which they can discuss with everyone in the
office the next day.”  ‘Explosive’ Growth  U.S. TV ad spending saw “explosive” growth in the second
quarter, with basic cable networks recording percentage gains in
the low-to-mid teens, according to market researcher Screen
Digest. It is forecasting TV advertising to grow 8.8 percent in
the U.S. in 2010, 7 percent at networks and 8 percent for cable.  While the comparisons are enhanced by weak numbers in 2009,
many broadcasters are “over the moon” with their recovery,
said  Alex DeGroote , an analyst at Panmure Gordon in London.  One of the most popular programs in the U.K. is the  X-
Factor  singing competition that can draw almost 50 percent of
all TV-owning households to ITV, the country’s biggest
commercial broadcaster. Now the network is teaming with other
broadcasters to introduce an Internet-connected TV platform in
competition with  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp.-controlled pay-TV
channel,  British Sky Broadcasting Plc .  The numbers are flowing through to broadcasters’ results.
Viacom reporting net income that beat analysts’ expectations in
the third quarter and  Societe Television Francaise 1 , France’s
most popular channel, boosting profit to 96 million euros from 2
million euros. RTL Group SA, the European TV network owned by
Bertelsmann AG, saw third-quarter sales rise 8.8 percent.  Stock Gains  ProSieben shares  are the best performers on the Stoxx 600
Index this year, surging 154 percent. Viacom stock has advanced
41 percent and ITV shares have increased 30 percent. BSkyB, for
which News Corp. has made a bid for full control, has gained 29
percent in the period.  As the on-demand options have multiplied, however, some
traditional viewership numbers have shrunk. In the U.K., about
38 percent of video viewers turned to the British Broadcasting
Corporation, or BBC, and ITV this year compared with 60 percent
in 1998, according to  Broadcasters Audience Research Board.  The
average weekly TV viewing, however, has held steady since 2007
at about 28 hours in spite of the new technologies.  Pay TV in the U.S. lost customers for the second straight
quarter in the three months ended September, according to a
report last week from research firm SNL Kagan, with cable
operators taking the biggest hit.  Netflix, Hulu  By contrast, Netflix, the online movie-rental service, and
Hulu, whose free and subscription-based models offer film and TV
programs on-demand in the living room, on PCs and mobile
devices, are gaining eyeballs. Netflix added almost 2 million
users in the third quarter, bringing its total to 16.9 million.  Google and Apple are also expanding on-demand TV services,
while  Amazon.com Inc. , Time Warner Inc’s HBO and cable companies
plan to offer fare online. The new services are diverse,
although almost all eschew TV with programs on a set schedule.  Although their numbers are declining, operators of multiple
cable TV systems still hold more than 60 percent of all video
subscriptions in the U.S., according to Charlottesville,
Virginia-based SNL Kagan.  Also, broadcasters are themselves experimenting and making
decisions on which new delivery channels to support.  Viacom  has
said it is monitoring the progress of Hulu, which was founded in
2007 by  General Electric Co. ’s NBC Universal and News Corp.’s
Fox, and counts Walt Disney Co.’s ABC and private-equity firm
Providence Equity Partners Inc. among investors.  Avoiding Music Repeat  “Cable networks have historically been a really good
business for us, since they bring in revenue from subscriptions
as well as from advertising,” Viacom’s Dauman said.  “That
model works, and customers are used to it.”  Broadcasters are eager to avoid the fate of the music
industry, which saw sales and profits plunge as consumers
downloaded music off the Internet.  For free-to-air broadcasters especially, “the key
unresolved question is whether the current consumer habit of
watching TV linearly will survive,” or if audiences will move
elsewhere, said Claudio Aspesi , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein in London. “Some of that will be captured by the
incumbents, but some of it will go somewhere else.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .;
 Simon Thiel  in Barcelona at  sthiel1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Browning  at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 