-- Crash of Kravis-Inspired Candover Shows Woes of Buyout Industry
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   R i c h a r d   T o m l i n s o n
-- 2010-11-22T00:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/crash-of-kravis-inspired-candover-shows-woes-of-buyout-industry.html
The leaders of a prestigious
European private-equity firm and one of its companies were
celebrating at a pair of parties on the French Riviera. It was
Sept. 13, 2008. Gerry Grimstone, chairman of Candover
Investments Plc, sipped cocktails and reviewed strategy with
executives of the firm’s leveraged-buyout unit on a yacht in
Monaco harbor. Two months before, Candover Partners Ltd. had won
a bidding war to purchase oil services company Expro
International Group Plc for 2 billion pounds ($3.19 billion),
then the largest LBO in  Europe  that year.  That same evening, just a short cruise southwest along the
coast, Ferretti SpA was showing off one of its luxury vessels at
the Cannes Yacht Festival. As models wearing Bulgari jewelry
promenaded on board Ferretti’s new Altura 840 yacht, the Italian
boatmaker had reason to cheer. The Candover-controlled company
had just received a new order from Dubai for 24 yachts, and it
was planning an initial public offering by the end of 2008,
Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its January issue.  Two days later, the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. pushed the global economy into a recession and set in
motion a chain of events that led to Candover’s implosion. The
buyout unit shut its 2008 fund and is selling  assets  and
fighting for survival. It’s also negotiating to break free from
Candover Investments, its publicly traded, London-based parent.
And Candover Investments says it will no longer invest in its
buyout unit’s funds.  ‘Mythical Name’  “Candover was a mythical name in the private-equity
industry,” says Antoine Drean, founder of Triago, a Paris-based
company that finds investors for buyout funds. “Its
disappearance is a shock. It shows that even the stars are
vulnerable.”  Candover’s saga -- the biggest private-equity blowup since
the losses at Hicks, Muse, Tate & Furst Inc. in the U.S. a
decade ago -- is emblematic of the industry’s rise and fall
since 2005. Dealmakers worldwide deployed unprecedented levels
of debt to buy companies at skyrocketing prices, capped by the
record $43.2 billion purchase, including assumed debt, of power
producer TXU Corp. in 2007 by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co., TPG
Capital and other buyers. Private-equity firms are now
struggling to sell many of these companies for a profit, with
stock markets in the MSCI World Index in November trading 27
percent below their 2007 highs.  Investors Flee  Returns have been crushed. Half of the private-equity funds
worldwide that started investing in 2006 through 2009 were
posting a loss of at least 4 percent as of the end of June,
according to data compiled by  London  researcher Preqin Ltd.
Investors, also hurt by stock market declines, are cutting their
commitments to funds.  In December 2008, Fort Worth, Texas-based TPG Capital let
investors scale back pledges by as much as 10 percent in its $20
billion fund. A year later, Paris-based PAI Partners, which
managed continental Europe’s largest buyout fund, slashed its
5.4 billion euro ($7.3 billion) fund by 50 percent after its
chief executive officer and one of his successors departed,
scaring away investors.  More firms may unravel in Europe and the U.S. as part of a
consolidation of the industry, says  Jon Moulton , chairman of
Better Capital LLP, a London-based buyout firm. With many
companies in danger of defaulting, interest-rate hikes would
spark carnage, Moulton says.  “There are a very large number of leveraged buyouts where,
if  interest rates  rise, there will be massive failures,” he
says.  Ferretti Deal  Candover founder Roger Brooke, 79, who studied  classics  at
the University of Oxford, had no experience in leveraged buyouts
when he started the firm in 1980. A decade later, Candover
Partners produced some of the highest private-equity returns in
the world, according to Preqin data.  Candover then veered out of control in the mid-2000s as
part of the global buyout frenzy. Its Ferretti deal in 2006
valued the yachtmaker at 12.7 times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, while buyouts in Europe
were priced at an average of 8.8 times Ebitda that year,
according to  Standard & Poor’s  data. Burdened with debt,
Ferretti defaulted in 2009 as customers rushed to cancel orders.
In addition to squandering its entire investment in the
yachtmaker and another company during the financial crisis,
Candover Partners wrote down the value of three others to zero.  “They lost their souls chasing large and pricey deals in
competitive auctions,” says Cyrille Chevrillon, a former
managing director at Candover Partners and a limited partner
through his own investment firm in Paris.  1 Billion Euro Commitment  Candover Investments stoked its buyout unit’s ambition to
grow, pledging 1 billion euros in 2008 to a new fund. The
commitment to the fund, which aimed to raise a record of more
than 5 billion euros, stirred controversy inside Candover. While
Chairman Grimstone, 61, supported the pledge, his predecessor,
Stephen Curran, opposed it.  “I wasn’t in favor of the 1 billion euro commitment, which
I considered too big compared to the firm’s assets and therefore
too risky,” says Curran, a director at the time.  Curran, 67, turned out to be right. The collapse of the
stock and credit markets in late 2008 made it almost impossible
for the buyout firm to sell companies, which denied Candover
Investments the profits it needed to meet its pledge.  So shareholders were already fleeing the parent company
when it canceled the commitment in March 2009, causing the stock
to be hammered again. The shares plummeted 96 percent to 82.75
pence from Sept. 16, 2008, to April 1, 2009. And the limited
partners who had already committed 2 billion euros to the 2008
fund demanded and got their money back.  Offers to Resign  “The commitment of 1 billion euros to a new fund which they
couldn’t then honor was a fatal error,” says Brooke, who retired
as Candover Investments’ chairman in 1999. “It’s not a
particularly happy situation for me where, having started the
business, it’s going apart.”  On a morning in late October, Candover’s fifth-floor office
on London’s Old Bailey street is almost deserted. During
Candover’s heyday in the middle of the decade, its payroll
swelled to more than 100 managers and staff spread among five
European offices in London, Paris, Milan, Madrid and
Duesseldorf.   Grimstone leans back in his chair in a sparsely
furnished meeting room and says the weeks after Candover’s
blowup were some of the most difficult times of his life. He
offered to resign to shareholders.    Henry Kravis   “They said, ‘No, you’re in the hot seat; we like you to be
in the hot seat,’” says Grimstone, who’s also chairman of U.K.
insurance group  Standard Life Plc .  Brooke owes his start in private equity to a 1980 meeting
with Henry Kravis, co-founder of KKR, whose $30 billion takeover
of RJR Nabisco Inc. in 1989 would put LBOs on the map. Brooke
says he met Kravis in  New York  on behalf of his friend, Michael Stoddart, the founder of Electra Investment Trust, one of the
first U.K. investment firms focused on private equity. Stoddart
was considering investing in a fund raised by KKR, then a four-
year-old company that was pioneering the growth of private
equity in the U.S.  Brooke says he knew little about buyouts back then. After
serving in the British  Foreign Office  for 11 years, he became in
the 1970s an executive or board member of a string of companies,
including book publisher Penguin and the Financial Times
newspaper, both subsidiaries of London-based  Pearson Plc . Brooke
says talking with Kravis about LBOs sparked his idea of starting
a firm.  Founding Candover  “Kravis gave me a full rundown on how leveraged buyouts
worked,” he says. Kravis explained that large companies were
sometimes willing to sell their noncore units. “If you could
raise the finances, you could get a substantial share in the
company and incentivize the managers of those units,” Brooke
says.  Shortly after returning to London in 1980, Brooke started
Candover, naming it after a rural valley in the southern English
county of Hampshire near where he still lives. The U.K. was in
the beginning of a two-year recession, which was driving down
asset prices and making buyouts more attractive. Brooke started
the firm with 2 million pounds, raising some of the money from
state-owned British Rail’s pension fund,  BP Plc ,  3i Group Plc 
and Stoddart’s Electra.  The former diplomat drew on his contacts from his City
career to find investors and deals as the firm got going, says
Joe Scott Plummer, a Candover director from 1985 to 2003. “Roger
was the front man, developing the business,” he says. “He knew
how to open doors.”  Scrupulous Manager  Candover had to compete with only a handful of U.K.
private-equity firms in the early 1980s, including Apax Partners
LLP and Cinven Ltd. Brooke hired Curran in 1981 from then-four-
year-old Cinven, where he worked as an investment manager. The
following year, he appointed Curran deputy CEO, with a seat on
the board. Curran, who had previously worked at Coopers &
Lybrand, a U.K. accounting and management advisory firm,
provided analytical rigor to Candover’s dealmaking, former
colleagues at the firm say.  “Roger and Stephen complemented each other,” says Antony
Hichens, a director of Candover Investments from 1989 to 2010.
“Roger was a charming, ebullient buccaneer, while Stephen was
the most scrupulous manager who was always dotting i’s and
crossing t’s.”  In 1984, Brooke says, he converted Candover Investments
into a publicly traded trust, with Candover Partners remaining
its subsidiary, to take advantage of U.K. tax rules that limited
the amount of capital gains tax paid by trusts on the sale of
assets by subsidiaries. The trust would also invest in its
unit’s funds, which accounted for about 12 to 14 percent of
total capital raised in the 1980s and 1990s.  Shepperton Studios  Early on, U.K. buyout firms grew more slowly than their
U.S. counterparts. British managers mostly confined their
dealmaking to their home country in the 1980s and 1990s, making
smaller acquisitions than the Americans, who had a larger market
to exploit. Candover Partners bought a range of U.K. companies,
from Cavenham Foods’ confectionary unit, for about 8 million
pounds, to Shepperton Studios. Candover paid about 12 million
pounds for Shepperton in 1995 and sold it for 35 million pounds
six years later, a very profitable deal for its 1994 fund. The
307.5 million pound fund delivered an annual net return of 42
percent -- still the firm’s best performance to date and among
the top 25 percent of returns from funds of that year worldwide,
according to Preqin.  Deal Goes Bust  In 1999, Curran succeeded the retiring Brooke as executive
chairman, giving him command of both the trust and Candover
Partners. The buyout firm began losing its way after 2001 as it
moved into continental Europe. Curran led the European
expansion, opening the firm’s first stand-alone office outside
Britain in Paris, a block east of the Arc de Triomphe. The
buyout firm raised 2.7 billion euros for its 2001 fund and
scoured Europe for larger deals, increasing the size of loans to
finance the acquisitions.  In one such deal that went bust, Candover acquired Ontex
NV, a Belgian diaper manufacturer, for about 1 billion euros in
2003, raising 660 million euros in loans for the purchase. It
was the largest LBO in  Belgium  at the time. Candover sold Ontex
in 2010, taking a 30 percent loss. The firm’s 2001 fund was
delivering a 17.6 percent annual return as of March 31,
according to data from the  California Public Employees’
Retirement System . Half of the funds of that year worldwide are
making more than 28 percent, according to Preqin.  Riding the Boom  By 2006, Candover Partners was riding the buyout boom,
executing deals that would help crush it. Armed with a 3.5
billion euro fund for 2005 -- Europe’s sixth biggest at the time
-- managers went on a high-priced shopping spree. In 2006,
Candover bought 60 percent of Ferretti, whose clients included  Sean Connery , Brigitte Bardot and King Hussein of Jordan. The
deal valued the yachtmaker at 1.5 billion euros.  “Candover stretched its commitments too far, paying high
prices for companies like Ferretti and borrowing too much to
finance the deals,” says Per Olofsson, manager of alternative
investments at AP7, a pension fund firm in Sweden that owns
almost 5 percent of Candover Investments.  After 25 years at Candover, Curran stepped down as
executive chairman in 2006 and became a director. The trust’s
board appointed Grimstone, then a director, to replace Curran as
a nonexecutive chairman. In contrast to Curran, Grimstone says,
he didn’t directly manage the buyout firm. Marek Gumienny and
Colin Buffin, who had worked for Curran at Candover Partners,
were appointed co-heads of the firm.  Grimstone’s Push  Grimstone was eager to increase the leverage on Candover’s
balance sheet to fund its growth, says Iain Scouller, an analyst
who covers the company at Oriel Securities Ltd. Before arriving
at the trust in 1999, Grimstone served as a senior civil servant
at the  U.K. Treasury  in the 1980s and then rose to vice chairman
of global  investment banking  at London-based  Schroders Plc . At
Candover in November 2007, Grimstone raised 150 million pounds
from a U.S. bond issue, a move cheered by the trust’s
shareholders, as the buyout firm began to explore possible deals
in Poland, Russia and  Asia .  “When a company’s old guard leaves, there’s a natural
desire for people taking over to change things and expand,”
Curran says. “And if you expand too much too quickly, you can
lose control.”  Gumienny, 51, and Buffin, 52, made more room for their
growing staff by renovating office space at Candover’s Old
Bailey headquarters. The firm redecorated the premises, hanging
abstract modernist paintings on the freshly painted brilliant
white walls.  “They tarted the whole place up,” Brooke says.  Curran Resigns  As new investment executives joined, the quality of the
team deteriorated, says Chevrillon, who resigned as managing
director in 2006.  “When you push for a deal and are enthusiastic about it
because it’s your deal, the others have to be able to throw cold
water on it,” he says. Buffin could not be reached for comment,
and Gumienny declined to comment for this story.  Curran’s resignation from the board in December 2007 meant
that Candover lost a meticulous executive who set an example for
the rest of the firm, says Doug Fairservice, deputy chairman to
Curran from 1999 to 2004. Curran departed as the board was
leaning toward making the pledge of 1 billion euros, or about 20
percent of the 2008 fund. Curran, who as chairman oversaw
contributions of about 14 percent to two funds, says he viewed
the larger commitment to the 2008 fund as dangerous.  “Stephen was a hands-on manager, as indeed was I,”
Fairservice says. “We were hands-on managers of the companies we
owned but also, more importantly, of Candover itself. Some of
the later guys at Candover were not.”  Reneging on the Pledge  The board decided to make the funding pledge in March 2008
as credit markets were tightening and Bear Stearns Cos. was
collapsing. Four months later, Candover Partners did its biggest
deal ever. The firm was part of a consortium that won a bidding
war against  Halliburton Co . for oil services company Expro
International and managed to secure 1.4 billion pounds of loans
to fund the transaction.  By early 2009, Candover began to crumble under the weight
of its deals and the 150 million pound bond issue, which
Grimstone now calls a mistake. As Candover wrote down Ferretti
and other assets and as prospects for selling companies vanished
with the crisis, the trust risked breaching its bond covenants
if it funded the pledge.  Two months after Candover reneged on the commitment,
sending its stock into a nosedive, Grimstone confronted angry
shareholders at the company’s annual meeting. The May gathering
was held near Candover’s head office at Founders Hall, a wood-
paneled assembly room with paintings of City dignitaries on the
wall. A humbled Grimstone apologized.  ‘Deeply Regret This’  “Clearly, Candover is not in good shape at present, and
both I and your board deeply regret this,” he told his audience
in a written statement.  Candover Investments is now winding down. The trust says
it’s selling assets to return cash to shareholders.  “We don’t actually have the capacity to anchor a fund,”
Malcolm Fallen, the recently appointed CEO of Candover
Investments, told reporters in August.  Candover Partners is negotiating with the trust with the
goal of spinning itself off by the end of December, people
familiar with the talks say. The future of the firm and its 13
remaining buyout executives hangs on whether they can sell their
remaining 12 companies at a good profit and restore investors’
confidence, Oriel Securities’ Scouller says.  26.4 Percent Annual Loss  Candover Partners lost its investment in U.K. food tester
Alcontrol Group Holdings Ltd. and suffered a 40 percent loss on
its investment in U.K. betting shop operator Gala Coral Group
Ltd. after debt restructurings. The buyout firm also wrote down
the value of Swedish bedmaker Hilding Anders AB and two other
companies to zero.  Candover managers hope to boost returns with some of their
profitable investments, such as French defense company Qioptiq.
The buyout firm’s 2005 fund is posting a 26.4 percent annual
loss as of March 31, according to Calpers. Funds of the same
vintage are showing a median 1.6 percent annual loss, according
to London researcher Preqin.  “The real issue of this firm has been poor  investment
performance ,” Grimstone says.  John Arney, 42, who now heads Candover Partners after
Buffin stepped down and Gumienny became chairman in 2009, is one
of the firm’s best dealmakers. Arney, who joined in 2002 after
working for buyout firms 3i and JPMorgan Partners LLC, led the
acquisition of Houston-based Vetco Gray Inc. in 2004. Candover
and other investors sold the oil-drilling-equipment firm to  General Electric Co . for $1.9 billion in 2007, quadrupling their
initial investment. Arney declined to comment for the story.  ‘Chance to Survive’  “If Candover comes back to its original strategy of medium-
sized U.K. deals, it has a chance to survive,” Chevrillon says.  Candover Partners will compete in a shrinking industry.
Firms will make smaller acquisitions using less leverage, says
Peter Morris, author of a 2010 report on private equity
published by the Centre for the Study of Financial Innovation, a
research group in London.  In 2007, firms led $717 billion of leveraged buyouts,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The deals in the U.S.
and Europe were valued at about 9.7 times Ebitda on average,
according to Standard & Poor’s. And managers used debt to fund
about two-thirds of the price, S&P says. In the first 10 months
of 2010, firms led $173 billion of LBOs worldwide as banks
resumed lending. Deals in the U.S. were valued at 7.7 times
Ebitda in 2009, and debt funded about half of the price.  “Some buyout firms will go out of business, and some may
merge,” Morris says.  French Riviera  Exactly two years after Lehman Brothers’ failure, leaders
of the buyout industry were back on the French Riviera. On Sept.
15, about 300 fund managers and investors gathered in Monaco for
the industry’s annual Capital Creation conference at Monte
Carlo’s Meridien Beach Plaza Hotel. On the agenda were such
topics as “What do general partners need to do to survive the
next 5 to 10 years?”  In 2008, on the same stretch of the Riviera, Candover
executives had toasted their own good fortune. This time around,
they didn’t show up. After two years of watching their companies
tumble and investors flee, they weren’t in a mood to celebrate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Tomlinson in London at 
 rtomlinson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill in New York at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  