-- Crude Oil Gains as Irish Bailout Plan May Ease Concern Over European Debt
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-22T13:45:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/crude-oil-gains-as-irish-bailout-plan-may-ease-concern-over-european-debt.html
Oil erased gains as falling share
prices among European banks renewed concern that the region’s
debt crisis may hinder economic growth and fuel demand.  Hedge funds cut bullish bets on oil by the most in almost
three months, according to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission’s weekly report Nov. 19. Moody’s Investors Service
said it may downgrade Ireland’s credit rating by several levels
after the nation requested a bailout from the European Union and
the International Monetary Fund.  “The dollar is getting stronger again as the anxiety about
European debt lingers on, and that’s putting some pressure on
oil,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , analyst at VTB Capital in
London. “But the market is effectively going to remain in a
tightly bound range for the foreseeable future.”  Crude for January delivery was down 23 cents at $81.75 a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange at 1:33 p.m. London
time after rising as high as $82.87. Brent crude for January
settlement traded at $84.48 a barrel, up 14 cents, after rising
to $85.45 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Moody’s said the Ireland bailout may increase the debt
burden and pose a “credit negative” for the country.  The aid package will “crystallize more bank-contingent
liabilities on the government balance sheet, and increase the
Irish sovereign’s debt burden,” Moody’s senior credit officer
Dietmer Hornung said in an e-mailed note today.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.5 percent to
268.11 as of 1:34 p.m. in London. Shares of Bank of Ireland Plc
plunged as much as 23 percent and Banco Santander SA, Spain’s
biggest bank, lost 4.4 percent.  The euro erased earlier gains against the dollar to trade
at $1.3625. The correlation between crude and the dollar-euro
exchange rate for the past 30 days is at 0.41, meaning that the
two have moved in synch 41 percent of the time.  Hedge funds reduced so-called  long positions , or wagers on
rising prices, by 15 percent in the seven days ended Nov. 16,
according to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
weekly report Nov. 19. It was the first drop in four weeks and
the largest decline since the seven days to Aug. 24.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net ;
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  