-- Crude Oil Futures Decline Amid Concern European Debt Crisis May Spread
-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2010-11-22T21:54:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/crude-oil-erases-gains-on-renewed-concerns-debt-crisis-may-damp-demand.html
Crude oil fell for a second day on
speculation that Europe’s debt crisis will spread, hindering
economic growth and reducing fuel demand.  Oil dropped 0.3 percent after Moody’s Investors Service
said the bailout of Ireland by the European Union and the
International Monetary Fund may increase the debt burden and
pose a “credit negative” for the country. It climbed as
much as 1.1 percent on the initial news of the rescue.  “There are some question marks about the situation, and
the optimism has faded,” said  Tom Bentz , a broker with BNP
Paribas Commodity Futures Inc. in New York.  Crude oil for January delivery fell 24 cents to settle at
$81.74 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Prices have
gained 6.5 percent in the past year. Brent crude oil for January
settlement dropped 38 cents, or 0.5 percent, to $83.96 a barrel
on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The aid package will “crystallize more bank-contingent
liabilities on the government balance sheet, and increase the
Irish sovereign’s debt burden,”  Dietmar Hornung , Moody’s senior
credit officer, said in an e-mailed note today.  The bailout may total 95 billion euros ($130 billion),
according to a  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . estimate. Ireland was
the second EU nation after Greece to seek a rescue this year.  Bullish Bets Slip  Hedge funds cut bullish bets on oil by the most in almost
three months amid speculation fallout from the Irish debt crisis
and China’s efforts to curb inflation will slow economic growth,
sapping demand for fuel.  Large speculators reduced so-called long positions, or
wagers on rising prices, by 15 percent in the seven days ended
Nov. 16, according to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission’s weekly report Nov. 19.  Bets on gains in oil prices rose to the highest level in
four years in the week before the Federal Reserve announced it
would spend $600 billion buying Treasuries through the second
round of so-called quantitative easing, or QE2.  “This shows that the market’s kind of convinced that this
QE2 rally could be coming to an end,” said  Phil Flynn , a
Chicago-based analyst and trader with investment adviser
PFGBest. “We know that the funds have backed off quite a bit,
and that’s reflecting the uncertainty moving forward with the
demand side of the equation.”  Oil rose to a two-year high of $88.63 in intraday trading
on Nov. 11 in a rally linked to the Fed announcement.  Equities Fall  Equities and other commodities dropped amid concern that
Ireland’s debt crisis will spread, adding pressure to the oil
contract. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  retreated 0.2 percent
to settle at 1,197.84 in New York, and the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  fell 0.2 percent to 11,178.58.  The  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index  of 19 commodities
declined 0.3 percent to 298.02. It was the seventh drop in nine
days.  The dollar gained 0.4 percent to $1.3613 per euro from
$1.3673 Nov. 19 in New York. A stronger dollar reduces the
appeal of commodities as an alternative investment.  “The market peaked out at around $88 with the equities and
we’re now forming a little bit of a base,” said  Rich Ilczyszyn ,
a market strategist at Lind-Waldock, a broker in Chicago. “The
low-risk trade is to buy near the October low of $79.25. If the
equities continue to roll over and the dollar holds, we could
drop below $79.”  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries doesn’t
need to boost output, and $100 is a fair price for crude, said
Rafael Ramirez, president of  Petroleos de Venezuela SA ,
Venezuela’s state-owned oil company. The country is OPEC’s
sixth-largest oil producer. OPEC oil ministers will meet next
month in Quito, Ecuador.  Chinese Growth  Oil tumbled the most in three months last week after China
ordered banks to raise reserves to slow economic growth and curb
inflation in the world’s largest energy-consuming country.  The Chinese move will have limited impact on oil-demand
growth, according to analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “The bigger risk in the near term will come from the
current exceptional strength in diesel demand, which could push
Chinese oil demand to new highs in November and December,” the
bank said today in a report.  China’s commercial inventories of diesel fell 11 percent in
October from the previous month because of an increase in demand
for the fuel from the agricultural industry and for electric
generation, according to data from the China Oil, Gas &
Petrochemicals published by Xinhua News Agency.  Chinese oil supplies tumbled 3.4 percent, the report
showed.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 401,246
contracts as of 3:15 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 556,151
contracts Nov. 19, 22 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.34 million contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margot Habiby  in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net ; or
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  