-- U.K. Stocks Fall as North Korea Shells Neighbor, Metals Slide
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2010-11-23T17:02:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/de-la-rue-homeserve-telecom-plus-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
U.K. stocks slid, sending the FTSE
100 Index lower for a third day, after North Korea fired
artillery shells into South Korea and as inflation concerns led
Chinese stocks lower.  Standard Chartered Plc  lost 2.7 percent.  Bank of Ireland
Plc  and Allied Irish Banks Plc tumbled for a second day in
Ireland.  BHP Billiton Ltd ., the world’s largest mining company,
and Rio Tinto Group both declined at least 2.2 percent.  The benchmark  FTSE 100  decreased 99.55, or 1.8 percent, to
5,581.28 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, for the worst three-
day performance since July 1. The  FTSE All-Share Index  slipped
1.7 percent, while Ireland’s  ISEQ Index  tumbled 3.4 percent.  South Korea scrambled fighter jets and returned fire after
North Korea lobbed dozens of shells into its waters and at an
island, killing two soldiers. Television footage showed smoke
billowing from Yeonpyeong island off South Korea’s northwest
coast, where the shelling set fire to houses, local television
channel YTN said.  “Investors are shaken by North Korea’s shelling of its
neighbor and are still worried about just how far the sovereign-
debt contagion will spread,” said  Peter Braendle , a fund
manager at Swisscanto Asset Management AG in Zurich, which
oversees $62 billion.  Stocks fell around the world after the international
bailout for Ireland failed to stem concern that Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis will spread to other indebted countries
such as Portugal and Spain.  Irish Elections  Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  late yesterday said he
will seek national elections early next year after his
government passes its 2011 budget. The announcement came hours
after the Green Party said it would pull out of the ruling
coalition following the budget vote, saying Cowen misled voters
in negotiating the bailout.  Bank of Ireland  plummeted 25 percent to 29.2 euro cents.
Allied Irish dropped 19 percent to 33 cents. European Union
officials estimate that a rescue package for Ireland may amount
to about 85 billion euros ($114 billion), according to two
officials familiar with the talks.  Standard Chartered, the British lender that generates the
majority of its earnings in Asia, slipped 2.7 percent to 1,737
pence, while HSBC Holdings plc retreated 1.5 percent to 643.9
pence, the lowest price since Aug. 31.  Barclays Plc  lost 2.1 percent to 264.25 pence. Two
transfers to the U.K. lender totaling about $1.3 billion from
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008 may have
violated securities laws, the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission said.  Metals Fall  Basic-resources stocks tumbled as metal prices decreased
for a third day. China’s stocks slid as concern mounted that the
government will intensify steps to tame inflation, potentially
curbing consumption in the world’s biggest user.  China’s biggest banks are close to reaching annual lending
quotas and plan to stop expanding their loan books to avoid
exceeding the limits, according to four people with knowledge of
the matter.  BHP Billiton lost 2.2 percent to 2,268 pence as copper,
zinc and aluminum retreated on the London Metal Exchange. Rio
Tinto declined 2.8 percent to 4,070 pence.  Xstrata Plc , the
largest exporter of coal used for power, shed 2.2 percent to
1,270 pence.  Mitchells & Butlers Plc , the U.K. owner of the All Bar One
chain, tumbled 2.6 percent to 344.6 pence as it posted a full-
year loss on lower sales of beverages at its public houses.  Laird Plc  rose the most in more than three months, gaining
9.1 percent to 152 pence. The biggest maker of electromagnetic
shields for mobile phones announced it will buy Cattron Group
International Inc. for $90 million in cash. The deal will be
“significantly earnings-enhancing” in 2011, the company said.  De La Rue Plc , the world’s biggest printer of banknotes,
tumbled 11 percent to 557.5 pence after it said there “remains
uncertainty” about the financial impact of a forced stop in
paper shipments. In September, De La Rue discovered that some
employees had deliberately falsified certain paper specification
test certificates for certain customers.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 