-- Derivatives Signal Rupee Rate Premium Over Dollar to Narrow: India Credit
-- B y   A n i l   V a r m a   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2010-11-23T09:10:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/derivatives-signal-rupee-rate-premium-over-dollar-to-narrow-india-credit.html
The interest-rate advantage for the
rupee in forward contracts against the U.S. dollar is poised for
its biggest monthly drop since May as traders bet on slower
increases in India’s borrowing costs.  Exchanging the nation’s currency for the greenback after 12
months in Mumbai costs 4.72 percent more than the spot rate,
down from 5.56 percent at the end of last month and a nine-year
high of 6.08 percent on Oct. 27. The contracts, agreements to
buy an asset at a set price and date, take into account interest
rates because banks often buy in advance the currencies they
plan to deliver to clients.  Forwards traders are betting that central bank Governor
 Duvvuri Subbarao  will slow rate increases as  inflation  cools,
even as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. predicts further boosts are
needed. Tokyo-based Kokusai Asset Management Co. is predicting
gains in the rupee to slow on the prospect of a smaller yield
premium over the U.S. dollar.  “Inflation is coming off and the money market is already
tight enough,”  Krishnamurthy Harihar , the Mumbai-based
treasurer at the Indian unit of FirstRand Ltd., said in an
interview yesterday. “The decline in forward rates suggests the
financial market doesn’t expect further interest-rate action
from the central bank as of now.”  The forward-dollar premium jumped 1.86 percentage points
from 2.86 percent at the end of 2009, heading for the biggest
annual increase since 2006. Gross trades in the onshore forward
market totaled $91.1 billion in October, the highest since at
least March, according to the Clearing Corp. of India.  Yield Gap  Similar agreements in the offshore forwards market cost
5.25 percent, down from a 19-month high of 5.86 percent on Nov.
12, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Non-deliverable contracts
are settled in dollars.  Yields  on India’s 10-year bonds have shrunk to within 525
basis points, or 5.25 percentage points, of U.S. Treasuries from
a decade-high 567 basis points on Oct. 20. The  gap  between
India’s one-year debt over U.S. securities has narrowed to 684
basis points from a two-year high of 686 basis points on Nov.
16. Similar spreads widened 28 points this month to 11.31 in
 Brazil , 12 to 1.95 in China and narrowed 4 to 1.10 in Russia,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. Treasury yields due in a decade have jumped 17 basis
points since Oct. 31, set for the biggest monthly increase since
March, after a gain in retail sales suggested that the world’s
largest economy is recovering.  Debt Issuance  The rise in dollar borrowing costs is spurring debt
issuance in European currencies and rupees.  State Bank of India , the nation’s largest lender, plans to
raise 500 million euros ($678 million) selling five-year debt
this week, Deputy Managing Director  Pratip Chaudhuri  said in an
interview on Nov. 15. Union Bank of India plans to sell bonds in
Swiss francs, Executive Director S.C. Kalia said on Nov. 18. The
same day, Finance Director R.K. Goel said state-run GAIL India
Ltd. intends to sell debt worth 10 billion rupees by March 31.  The combination of India’s higher yields and policy rates
of less than 0.5 percent in the U.S., U.K. and Japan attracted
fund inflows. Overseas investors  bought  $10 billion of rupee
debt in 2010, bringing their total holdings to $17.6 billion,
according to the Securities & Exchange Board of India.  “This year’s large capital flows into Asia including India
are the outcome of ultra-loose U.S. monetary policy,”  Uwe Parpart , chief economist and strategist for Asia at Cantor
Fitzgerald HK Capital Markets, said in a Nov. 17 interview. “I
don’t expect such volume of flows to be replicated in 2011.”  Rupee Options  Inflows contributed to the rupee’s 2 percent advance this
year. The currency slipped 0.4 percent to 45.59 per dollar as of
2:25 p.m. in Mumbai.  Options contracts signal investors are turning less
optimistic on the rupee. The premium paid for options offering
protection against possible declines in the currency in a month
has rebounded to 260 basis points from a 16-month low of 31 on
Sept. 20, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Rupee debt has returned 4.3 percent in 2010, the third-
worst performance among 10 Asian local-currency debt markets
outside Japan, after underperforming earlier this year as
average inflation in the first 10 months jumped sevenfold to 9.6
percent, according to indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc.  Rate Outlook  Economists at Goldman Sachs, Deutsche Bank AG and HSBC, say
the Reserve Bank of India will keep raising rates in response to
price pressures.  Tushar Poddar , Goldman Sachs’s Mumbai-based
economist who correctly predicted the 150-basis point increase
in the  repurchase rate  this year, forecasts a further 75-point
jump in the first half of 2011. The median projection of 10
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News last week was for an
increase of 25 basis points.  Policy makers in the U.S. will leave the federal funds
 target rate  in a range of zero to 0.25 percent until the end of
the third quarter next year, according to the median prediction
of 59 economists in a separate survey.  “The Indian central bank is behind the curve, and I expect
more gradual rate hikes to come in 2011,”  Sergey Dergachev , who
helps manage the equivalent of $8.5 billion of emerging-market
debt at Union Investments in Frankfurt, said in a Nov. 17 e-
mail. “Increases in the U.S. may start only in the third
quarter of next year.”  Barclays Plc and Nomura Holdings Inc. forecast the RBI will
hold borrowing costs until March as Commerce Ministry data this
month showed  factory output  grew 4.4 percent from a year earlier
in September, the slowest pace in 16 months.  Fund Inflows  The cost of protecting the debt of government-owned State
Bank, which some investors perceive as a proxy for the nation,
has fallen 75 basis points from this year’s high of 239 reached
in May, according to CMA prices.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  “India’s growth and yield advantages will continue to
attract capital,”  Takahide Irimura , head of emerging-market
research in Tokyo at Kokusai Asset that manages about $59
billion in assets, said in a Nov. 17 interview. “But we cannot
deny the possibility of such inflows slowing from this year. The
rupee is likely to strengthen next year, but the pace of
appreciation may be slower.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anil Varma  in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net ;
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at   yteso1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  