-- FBI Searches Offices of Level Global, Diamondback Funds
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2010-11-22T21:28:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/diamondback-capital-s-offices-in-connecticut-searched-by-fbi-agency-says.html
FBI raids seeking documents from
three investment firms are related to hedge fund insider trading
investigations directed by the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney
Preet Bharara, according to a person familiar with the probes.  The offices of Level Global Investors LP and Diamondback
Capital Management LLC, firms founded by alumni of SAC Capital
Advisors LLC, were searched by Federal Bureau of Investigation
agents, the government said today. Agents also executed a search
warrant at the offices of Loch Capital Management, according to
another person familiar with the matter. Both declined to be
identified because the probes are ongoing.  “The government has decided it needs to use force to
obtain all the information,” said  Jacob Frenkel , a former
federal prosecutor and lawyer with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. “It has opted not to issue grand jury subpoenas but
instead use the search warrant process.”  Steve Bruce, a spokesman for Diamondback, and  Andy Merrill ,
a spokesman for Level Global, confirmed the FBI had searched
their offices and said they are cooperating.  Timothy McSweeney 
of Boston-based Loch Capital didn’t respond to a phone message
seeking comment.  Ellen Davis, a spokeswoman for Bharara, declined to
comment.  706 Companies  Diamondback, based in Stamford, Connecticut, owned U.S.-
listed stocks in 706 companies at the end of the third quarter,
with a market value of $4.13 billion, most of it in energy
companies and financial services, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Level Global, with offices in Greenwich and New York,
owned stocks in 77 companies valued at $3.08 billion, with
34 percent of that in consumer discretionary stocks and
31 percent in information technology companies.  Its biggest U.S. stock holding by market value is a
5.8 percent stake in Virgin Media Inc., the U.K.’s second-
largest pay-television company, according to regulatory filings
for the third quarter. Diamondback has about 215 employees as of
Aug. 1, according to an investor letter.  Level Global, founded in 2003 by SAC veteran  David Ganek ,
told clients in April that it had sold a minority stake to a
leveraged-buyout firm run by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
Petershill Fund Offshore LP.  Started in 2005  Diamondback was started in 2005 by  Rich Schimel ,  Lawrence Sapanski  and Chad Loweth, all former SAC traders. Schimel is the
brother-in-law of SAC’s founder, Steven A. Cohen. Loweth left
Diamondback this year.  Sapanski joined SAC in 1998 where he traded financial
services, energy and retail stocks, according to Diamondback’s
marketing documents. Before that, he was a proprietary trader at
firms including London & Bishop Gates International, Morgan
Stanley and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. He began his career at
New York-based Morgan Stanley in 1981 as an accountant,
according to the documents.  Before co-founding Diamondback, Schimel was also a portfolio
manager at SAC, which he joined in 2000. Prior to that he worked
at Morgan Stanley where he was a proprietary trader on the
government bond trading desk, according to the marketing
documents. He began his career in 1990 at Paine Webber as a
trading assistant.  Schimel and Sapanski didn’t return phone messages seeking
comment.  Andrea Raphael , a spokeswoman for New York-based
Goldman Sachs, and  Jonathan Gasthalter , a spokesman for
Stamford-based SAC, declined to comment. Goldman fell 3.4
percent, or $5.62, to $161.05 in New York Stock Exchange
trading.  FrontPoint Partners  The FBI raids follow news last week that another firm,
FrontPoint Partners LLC, plans to close down its $1.5 billion
health-care hedge funds after a portfolio manager allegedly
received tips about the results of Human Genome Sciences Inc.
trials for the drug Albuferon, according to a person briefed on
the firm’s plans.  The firm expects to return capital to clients before the
end of this month, said the person, who asked not to be named
because the funds are private.  Dr.  Yves Benhamou , 50, a French doctor and former adviser
to Rockville, Maryland-based Human Genome, was charged Nov. 2 by
Bharara’s office with insider trading and conspiracy. He was
granted $3 million bail by a New York judge on Nov. 17.  FrontPoint, a Greenwich-based money-management firm that’s
being spun out of Morgan Stanley, said on Nov. 2 it is
cooperating with federal authorities in the criminal probe. Dr.
 Chip Skowron , co-portfolio manager of the firm’s health-care
funds who allegedly received the tips from Benhamou, and also a
former SAC Capital analyst, was placed on leave pending the
outcome of the probe, FrontPoint said.  Diamondback Shares  Diamondback held 440,871 shares of Human Genome Sciences at
the end of the third quarter.  Frenkel, the former prosecutor, said that it’s likely the
government has cooperating witnesses providing information to
help it obtain the warrants from federal judges.  “The availability of those tools is very fact and
cooperator intensive,” he said. “In order to get a warrant,
the government has to have information that would enable it to
get court authorization.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net  and;
 Saijel Kishan  in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  