-- Gheorghiu Whips It Up as ‘Adriana’ at Covent Garden: Review
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2010-11-22T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/diva-gheorghiu-whips-it-up-as-adriana-at-covent-garden-warwick-thompson.html
Finally, an opera all too long
disdained by high-minded folks who want us to suffer through
“Wozzeck” one more time, has returned exactly where it should
be: center stage at the  Royal Opera  in London.  With its great arias and extravagant plot culminating in
death by violets, “Adriana Lecouvreur” is the perfect work for
stars like  Angela Gheorghiu  and  Jonas Kaufmann , who thrilled the
packed house as a fabled 18th-century actress and her martial
cavalier, Maurizio.  As the opera opens backstage at the  Comedie-Francaise , she
enters floating with an aria about her humility and devotion to
art as admirers cluck in appreciation. Maurizio’s life is,
however, complicated by a volatile princess who makes cow eyes
at him.  Director  David McVicar ’s trump card is to place all the
action in a theater. This is Adriana’s home territory, of
course. It also makes perfect sense of the plot’s more
melodramatic MacGuffins, which include misdirected letters,
mistaken identities and mislaid jewels. He keeps the complicated
plotting as clear as can be, and works hard at detailed
characterization.  God on a Cloud  Designer  Charles Edwards  recreates a Baroque theater,
complete with flywheels, capstans, traps, sliding wings, rolling
gauzes and even a descending Mercury on a cloud machine, which
is strikingly beautiful. When it revolves, it takes the breath
away.  It’s not just a working stage-within-a-stage, either: When
the princess appears in the second act, her apartment is half
behind the footlights and half in front. It’s a clever metaphor
for the unreal view she has of her relationship with Maurizio.  With Brigitte Reiffenstuel’s panniered silken frocks,
including a tightly corseted corn-yellow riding outfit (plus
whip) for Adriana in Act 2, the whole gorgeous operation looks
like a Watteau painting come to life.  The role of Adriana, in its infrequent showings, is usually
given to a soprano with a bit of beef in her voice. This was one
of the favored roles a half century ago of the sainted Renata
Tebaldi.  Gheorghiu makes a perfectly convincing case for it to be
given to a lighter lyric singer. Her floating high pianissimi
are exquisite, and her general delicacy makes for a charming and
fragile performance. Her account of the sad Act 4 aria “Poveri
fiori” (“Poor flowers”) is a showstopper.  Meaty Mezzo  Kaufmann brings tremendous virility, both vocally and
dramatically, to Maurizio. His dark middle register and high
ringing sobs are ideal for the character’s conflicted nature and
passionate outbursts. Michaela Schuster, a meaty-voiced mezzo,
is great, too, as the princess, and gives a fine performance of
her roof-raising big number “Acerba volutta” (“Bitter
pleasure”).  The only fly in the glittering ointment is the restrained
conducting of  Mark Elder .  “Adriana” is the kind of piece that needs fevered
emotionalism and even a hint of well-placed vulgarity in the pit
from time to time.  Even so, given the tremendous cast and production, it’s
time to welcome “Adriana” back into the fold.  Rating: ****.  “Adriana Lecouvreur” is in repertory at the Royal Opera
House, London, through Dec. 10. Some later performances have
Angeles Blancas Gulin as Adriana and Olga Borodina as the
princess.  Information:  http://www.roh.org.uk  or +44-20-7304-4000.
It’s a co-production with  Gran Teatre del Liceu ,  Wiener
Staatsoper ,  San Francisco Opera  and  Opera National de Paris .  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 