-- Dominican Republic to Sell $700 Million of Bonds, President Fernandez Says
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2010-11-22T15:40:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/dominican-republic-to-sell-700-million-in-debt-fernandez-says.html
The Dominican Republic plans to sell
$700 million in bonds overseas next year to help finance energy
purchases and ease an electricity crisis that threatens to curb
growth in the Caribbean’s fastest-growing economy, President
 Leonel Fernandez  said.  Fernandez, elected for a third term in 2008, said the sale
may occur in January or February after officials meet with
investors to determine interest.  “We’re very careful in terms of how to manage the
situation of debt,” Fernandez said in an interview on Nov. 19
in the capital of Santo Domingo.  The Caribbean nation last sold debt in international
markets in April, when it issued $750 million of bonds due in
2021 to yield 7.5 percent. The offering was the first in more
than three years and came after Moody’s Investors Service raised
the country’s credit rating on April 22 to B1, four levels below
investment grade, from B2, citing the prospects for economic
growth. The economy expanded an average of 7.6 percent in the
first three quarters of 2010, according to an Oct. 29 statement
from the Dominican Republic’s central bank.  Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings both rate the country
B, five levels below investment grade. Yields on the 2021 notes
fell 159 basis points, or 1.59 percentage points, to 5.91
percent since they were issued as record-low interest rates in
the U.S. fueled demand for emerging-market debt, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sustainable Debt Level  The extra yield investors demand to own Dominican Republic
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose four basis points to 305
at 10:32 a.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Dollar bonds sold by Argentina, which is also rated B by
Standard & Poor’s, yield 548 basis points above Treasuries.  Fernandez said current debt levels are “sustainable” as
they represent 36 percent of gross domestic product.  Heather Berkman , a political risk analyst at Eurasia Group
in New York, said the proposed bond sale shows “a lack of
progress and lack of political will” to deal with the country’s
energy problems.  “I’m sure investors will buy the bonds with the
appropriate higher interest rate,” Berkman said today in an
interview.  Financing Agreement  The Dominican Republic, which shares the island of
Hispaniola with Haiti, owes Venezuela $1.75 billion for oil
received through a financing agreement between President  Hugo Chavez  and Caribbean nations to help cover an electricity
deficit that reached $700 million this year and threatens to
slow economic growth,  Rafael Espinal , a finance ministry
official, said in an interview on Nov. 19. Energy demand is
growing faster than the economy and the deficit reflects the
money the government has spent to bail out electricity
companies.  A World Bank report released in June said the Dominican
government must resolve an energy “crisis” that has led to
some of the highest electricity rates in Latin America in order
to sustain economic growth.  Espinal, the local manager for the Venezuelan program known
as  Petrocaribe , said the debt will increase to $2 billion next
year as this nation of 9.8 million struggles with power
shortages and electricity theft.  Petrocaribe Funds  Petrocaribe member countries have the option of repaying
Venezuela by bartering goods and services instead of cash,
Espinal said. The Dominican Republic will pay 80 percent of the
$59.3 million payment due next year in a barter agreement that
calls for giving Venezuela black beans, pasta, sugar and
packaging materials, he said.  “Petrocaribe funds are keeping our electricity sector
afloat,” Espinal said at his office in Santo Domingo.  The government may break contracts with electricity
companies that fail to pay back loans, he said. The government
earlier agreed to stop bailing out companies in arrears with
subsidies under a $1.7 billion stand-by agreement with the
International Monetary Fund, he said.  The $47 billion economy will grow 6.5 percent to 7 percent
this year, the most among Caribbean nations, the IMF said in a
Nov. 10  statement  after reviewing the $1.7 billion arrangement.
The country’s economy grew 3.5 percent in 2009.  New Constitution  Fernandez, 56, grew up in New York City and returned to the
Dominican Republic to study law at Universidad Autonoma de Santo
Domingo before joining the  Dominican Liberation Party .  Having served terms from 1996 to 2000 and 2004 to 2008,
Fernandez forged a new constitution last year with the main
opposition party that lifted the lifetime limit on presidential
terms.  “Legal mechanisms within the constitution” could allow
him to seek reelection even with the new charter’s ban on
consecutive terms, Fernandez said. He refused to say if he would
run again after his term ends in 2012.  “That will remain a secret,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Blake Schmidt  in Granada, Nicaragua, at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
 Eric Sabo  in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  