-- Drink to a Feud-Free Thanksgiving With Riesling, Pinot, Port
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2010-11-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/drink-to-a-feud-free-thanksgiving-with-riesling-pinot-port-john-mariani.html
I’m through worrying about what
wines to serve with Thanksgiving dinner.  It is a family holiday -- with all its crazy antagonisms --
and flaunting connoisseurship in front of one’s mother-in-law,
who only eats white meat, or Uncle Dave, who only drinks Bud
Light, is tempting an argument.  The gastronomic challenge is to find wines that go with the
wide array of flavors in a lavish display of dishes ranging from
sweet potatoes to cranberry sauce, Brussels sprouts to well-
seasoned, herb-inflected stuffing (not to mention marshmallows).  One thing I do know, Champagne or sparkling wine goes with
just about everything, especially as a first-course wine. Since
this is the most distinctly American holiday, I’d choose a good
California sparkler, like  J Brut Rose  ($30) from Russian River
Valley. Made from pinot noir grapes by owner Judy Jordan, this
has the body and fruit to go with almost any appetizer and even
last throughout the meal as a festive, celebratory wine.  For white wines I also want body. A boldly buttery
chardonnay like those made by  Acacia , from California’s  Carneros 
region, is, at $17, a very good buy for a large gathering, and
it’s very good with the turkey’s white meat and roasted skin.  But to cut through the strong and sweet flavors like
cinnamon, nutmeg, mace, and pepper, it takes acidity, and
nothing does the job better than a slightly sweet riesling like
 Hogue Cellars  Genesis ($13) from Washington’s Columbia Valley.
(Hogue also makes a late-harvest sweet riesling ($17) that would
be perfect with pumpkin pie.)  Cold Climate  I am a big fan of New York State’s  Finger Lakes  rieslings,
whose terroir is ideal for that cold climate. None is better
than  Dr. Konstantin Frank’s  Dry Riesling ($12), which has brisk
acidity and good, apple-pear fruitiness that matches up well
with sweet and savory dishes.  Obviously, Thanksgiving centers around the turkey, which is
not a strong-flavored fowl (unless you obtain a wild, never-
tender bird), but has a good deal of fat within its skin and in
the gravy; the dark meat has more richness and succulence. So
one might stick with the big chardonnay. In fact I’d leave it on
the table after the appetizer, but also bring out a fine pinot
noir. The problem is that way too many California pinots are too
high in alcohol, which tends to blur the taste of the grape.  Which is why I’ve long favored  Domaine Drouhin ’s flagship
Laurene pinot (the 2007 vintage sells for about $65) from
Oregon, which has loosened its tannins and reveals its
complexity and elegance without bludgeoning the palate with
alcohol burn. At the price, it’s a pinot I’d serve only to those
at the table who appreciate fine wine (at my table they sit
closest to me). Drouhin also makes a less pricey pinot at about
$35.  Pinot Noir  For something lighter and far less expensive,  Rodney Strong 
Russian River Valley Pinot Noir ($19-$23) is a delight with
turkey and usually has a touch of syrah in it whose cherry-like
fruit takes on the cranberry sauce and sweet potatoes very well
indeed. The 2009 is in the market now, but you can still find
the exemplary 2007.  You could go with an American Rhone-style wine, like the
limited production (330 cases) 2008 The Third Man label of
 Gramercy Cellars , out of Walla Walla, Washington ($45). Winery
owners Pam and Greg Harrington are fierce believers that
“within 20 years Grenache will be among the top 3 noted
varietals in Washington.”  Their Third Man bottling -- with 60
percent grenache, 20 percent syrah, and 20 percent mourvedre --
takes its name from the feeling mountain climbers sometimes get
of a presence who supports them in trouble.  Bourbon Finish  I doubt many hosts will serve a cheese course after all the
preceding food, but if so, a good Port is in order. There are,
however, no good American Port-style wines, so I’d veer from my
American chauvinism to open a bottle of a light but rich ruby
Port like  Noval Black  ($22), which needs no decanting.  Otherwise, with cheese and dessert I would resort back to
the Late Harvest riesling from Hogue Cellars, or even a glass of
Kentucky bourbon, like  Blanton’s Single Barrel  bourbon ($40-$50)
to ease out the rest of the evening.  ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 