-- Health Insurers Can Include Costs of Federal Taxes Under Patient Rules
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2010-11-22T21:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/health-insurers-can-include-costs-of-federal-taxes-under-patient-rules.html
U.S. health insurers can include the
cost of federal taxes in determining whether they spend enough
on patient care, increasing the amount that can be kept for
administration or profit under new rules. Company  shares rose .  Health plans led by Indianapolis-based  WellPoint Inc . may
also win delays from the spending requirements if individual
states show the federal government that the so-called medical-
loss ratio rule will destabilize insurance markets, the U.S.
 Health and Human Services Department  said in a  statement  today.
The regulations are part of the U.S. health overhaul that
President  Barack Obama  signed in March.  The industry may save about $704 million that would have
been returned to consumers in 2011, when the rule takes effect,
 Matthew Borsch , a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst, estimated in
a note today. Companies must spend least 80 percent of member
premiums on care they provide, or refund the difference.  “This suggests the administration is perfectly willing to
be reasonable from an insurance point of view and try to
preserve the private insurance market,” said  Dave Shove , a BMO
Capital Markets analyst in New York, in a telephone interview.
“The nervousness among investors was over whether the
administration would take the point of view that says insurers
aren’t entitled to a fair profit.”  Shares Gain  Health insurer shares rose after the announcement, with
 WellPoint , the biggest plan by enrollment, climbing $1.36, or
2.3 percent, to $59.97 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The six-stock  Standard & Poor’s Managed Care
Index  gained 1.7 percent.  The federal government expects as many as 9 million
Americans will receive a total of $1.4 billion in rebates
starting in 2012, the health department said in its statement.  “These new rules are an important step to hold insurance
companies accountable and increase value for consumers,” U.S.
Health Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  said at a Washington press
conference announcing the rules.  The regulations require health insurers to spend at least
80 percent of premium  revenue  on patient care for small and
individual plans, and 85 percent for large plans. Health
insurers have lobbied the federal government to make the
definition of “patient care” as broad as possible, to deduct
taxes from the calculation, and to create waivers in cases where
the rules would disrupt the insurance market.  ‘Collaborative Process’  America’s Health Insurance Plans, the industry’s
Washington-based trade group, praised the “substantive,
collaborative process” that produced the spending rule, in an
e-mailed statement.  “These regulations acknowledge the potential for
individual insurance market disruption and take a first step
toward minimizing such disruptions,”  Karen Ignagni , the group’s
president, said in the statement.  Sebelius mostly kept to the spending rule recommended last
month by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, a
group of state regulators, said Shove, the BMO analyst. The
federal rule exempts expatriate insurance plans and so-called
mini-med policies that employers offer to part-time and low-wage
workers. Both decisions should benefit  Aetna Inc.  of Hartford,
Connecticut, and Philadelphia-based  Cigna Corp. , Shove said.  Rebate Estimates  The top six for-profit insurers, led by WellPoint and
 UnitedHealth Group Inc.  of Minnetonka, Minnesota, will probably
spend about $655 million in rebates for next year’s coverage,
said Borsch, the Goldman Sachs analyst in New York. If federal
taxes weren’t included in the formula, the rebates would have
been $1.36 billion, Borsch estimated, based on 2010 spending
patterns.  Tyler Mason , a UnitedHealth spokesman, referred questions
to the industry group. The stock rose 46 cents, or 1.3 percent,
to $36.46 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Kristin Binns , a WellPoint spokeswoman, also referred
questions to the insurance group.  The law will expand coverage to 32 million uninsured
people, according to the  Congressional Budget Office . It also
limits insurer practices such as excluding from health coverage
those with pre-existing medical conditions.  The administration gave insurers leeway on federal taxes as
congressional Democrats argued that lawmakers hadn’t intended to
do so. In an Aug. 10 letter to the state commissioners group,
the chairmen of six congressional committees said they meant the
law to omit only the insurance taxes created under the bill, not
payroll or income levies.  The legislation says the medical ratio should be calculated
“excluding federal and state taxes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Armstrong  in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Nussbaum  in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 