-- ECB Shouldn't Pull Emergency Measures Before Irish Reform, Katainen Says
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2010-11-23T12:43:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/ecb-shouldn-t-act-until-irish-banks-restructured-katainen-says.html
The European Central Bank shouldn’t
withdraw support measures including record-low interest rates
and emergency liquidity until Ireland has restructured its banks,
Finnish Finance Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said.  “Once we have restructured the banking sector, then the
ECB can act again,” Katainen said in an interview in Helsinki
yesterday. “The banking sector must be restructured, otherwise
help by anybody is impossible.”  Ireland on Nov. 21 became the second euro nation to seek a
financial rescue package as the cost of saving its banks
threatened to trigger a repeat of the Greek debt crisis that
destabilized the single currency. Renewed fiscal turmoil in the
region so far hasn’t prompted the ECB to abandon plans to exit
its crisis measures.  The Irish bailout will “absolutely not” impact the 16-
nation central bank’s exit from non-standard measures, ECB
council member  Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez  told reporters in
Madrid today. The rescue “should end up calming the markets”
and the ECB’s exit “has nothing to do with it.”  ECB Executive Board member  Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell  said
today the bank has continued phasing out liquidity measures
since the third quarter.  Fiscal Violators  Failure to provide Ireland with the financial support it
needs would risk undermining the euro, Katainen said. His
government, headed by Prime Minister  Mari Kiviniemi , has ruled
out requiring fiscal violators to quit the region, arguing such
a move would be a greater loss for euro-area stability than the
cost of any bailout.  The single currency’s integrity can’t be questioned, said
Bank of Finland Governor and ECB council member  Erkki Liikanen .  “The euro will survive; its standing isn’t in question at
all,” Liikanen said in an interview on Finland’s YLE1 today. A
split of the euro region is “impossible,” he said.  ECB policy makers, grappling with the biggest threat to the
single currency since its creation more than a decade ago, are
trying to talk down concerns that Ireland’s fiscal crisis may
destabilize markets elsewhere in Europe.  The yield on Ireland’s benchmark 10-year bond soared 21
basis points today to 8.30 percent as investors sold the
country’s debt. Spanish and Portuguese yields, which move
inversely to bond prices, also jumped.  Katainen said the region can’t afford to let Ireland fail.  ‘Threatens Seriously’  “The Irish situation is not only the Irish situation,”
Katainen said. “It threatens seriously the financial stability
in the euro area and generally speaking in Europe.”  Irish lenders have become more reliant on ECB funding after
being frozen out of wholesale markets. ECB loans to the
country’s banks rose 7.3 percent to 130 billion euros ($177
billion) in October from the previous month, Ireland’s central
bank said on Nov. 1. The data include both international and
domestic banks operating in Ireland.  Allied Irish Banks Plc , Ireland’s second-biggest bank, has
tripled its reliance on funding from central banks to 27 billion
euros from a “high single-digit” billion-euro amount on June
30,  Alan Kelly , general manager of group corporate services at
Allied Irish, said on Nov. 19.  A joint European Union, International Monetary Fund loan
may reach 95 billion euros,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  estimates.
The U.K., Sweden and Denmark have said they are also considering
bilateral loans to Ireland.  ‘Downsized’  Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said yesterday any
loan will require Ireland to push through “credible” and
“sustainable” reforms in its banking sector. Irish Finance
Minister  Brian Lenihan  told RTE radio yesterday the country’s
banks will be “downsized.”  “It’s important for everybody that the banking sector is
put in order, which is not the case at the moment,” Katainen
said. “To recapitalize and in order to give liquidity support
in the future.”  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  in a speech on Nov. 18
said policies originally intended to fight the global credit
crisis can’t “evolve into a dependency as conditions
normalize.” ECB Executive Board member  Juergen Stark  said on
Nov. 16 the bank will continue to phase out liquidity measures
after the end of the year.  An agreement on the final loan package will come “in the
next few weeks,” Ireland’s Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  said on
Nov. 21.  ‘Not Easy’  Cowen, whose coalition yesterday lost the backing of the
Green Party, said it was his “intention to seek a dissolution”
of the government after the passage of the 2011 budget. When
asked about speculation he planned to resign, Cowen said he
wanted to continue leading his Fianna Fail party.  Katainen said Finland is unlikely to block any loan
agreement, even though his government would prefer the final
deal to require Ireland to provide collateral. Finland’s demands,
which are only backed by Slovakia, will probably encounter legal
hurdles, he said at a press conference yesterday.  “Even though it’s not easy, we have to behave
responsibly,” Katainen said. “That’s why I don’t think it’s
possible” for Finland to block the rescue package.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kati Pohjanpalo  in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  