-- LED Maker Nila Lights Up Hollywood, Starts to Shine on Congress
-- B y   A n t o n e   G o n s a l v e s
-- 2010-11-22T17:14:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/led-maker-nila-lights-up-hollywood-starts-to-shine-on-congress.html
After working on Hollywood movies and TV shows for 21 years,
Jim Sanfilippo understands the power of a dramatic moment. Back in 2007, the master
electrician turned studio lighting systems entrepreneur was demonstrating one of his
LED fixtures to a producer for the James Bond film “Quantum of Solace,” who
questioned its durability. Undaunted, Sanfilippo walked to a nearby worktable in the
cavernous Buckinghamshire, U.K., film studio and started hammering the brick-shaped
light onto the table as if he was trying to drive a nail through it. “I just kept pounding the
light until everybody’s jaw was on the floor -- speechless,” Sanfilippo says. “The light
was still on, while I was holding it, and I looked at the guy and I said, ‘I don’t know, but I
don’t think it’s going to be a problem.’” He landed the $100,000 contract, the first for his
nascent business.  Three years later, Sanfilippo, 42, is still pitching the light-emitting-diode fixtures and
accessories that Nila, his six-employee company, designs and builds in its factory in
Altadena, Calif. His sales tactics are a bit more restrained, though his message remains
the same: Movie studios and TV production companies should replace their fragile old
lighting systems with his newfangled models, which are rugged and energy-efficient yet
capable of delivering the color range necessary to set any mood. There is a hitch,
however: With prices for a single fixture starting at $1,600, Nila’s lights on average cost
twice as much as the very basic tungsten halogen lighting, the standard equipment
that’s been in use in movie and TV studios for more than 40 years.  To convince prospective customers to make the investment, Sanfilippo says his lights
are 75 percent more energy-efficient and emit 80 percent less heat than the traditional
tungsten halogen and hydrargyrum medium-arc iodide (HMI) lamps. He emphasizes
they last much longer -- 20,000 hours vs. 1,000 hours. They’re also more
environmentally friendly, he says, since LEDs do not contain toxic heavy metals. And
he’s quick to point out that as a replacement for HMI fixtures, the standard for creating
daylight conditions since the late 1960s, Nila lights cost 25 percent to 50 percent less.  So far, his pitch is working. Sanfilippo says Nila is on track to reach $1.5 million in
revenue this year, up more than 300 percent from 2009, and expects to hit $7.5 million
in 2011. It sells from about a dozen dealers and their subsidiaries inside and outside the
U.S., primarily to equipment rental companies that cater to movie studios and TV
production companies.  The sales cycle is tricky, but Sanfilippo says old-fashioned persistence pays off. For
example, to make it onto the “Quantum” sets, Sanfilippo approached rental company
PRG-LA, which sub-rented to Panalux London, which then rented the lights to the
producers of the Bond film he had first approached in 2007. “They’re really fabulous,”
Roberto Schaefer, the film’s director of photography, says of the Nila lights, which were
mounted on vehicles that followed cars during chase scenes. “You can drive a car off a
cliff, and it doesn’t damage them.”  With the price of LEDs expected to drop by 50 percent over the next 18 to 24 months,
 Michael LoCascio , senior analyst at Lux Research, which provides market forecasts for
emerging technologies, says profit margins will increase for specialty companies like
Nila and its handful of competitors, including Gekko Technology and Litepanels. Lux
predicts the overall LED market will have a compound annual growth rate of 41 percent
from 2009 to 2020, when it is expected to reach $10.3 billion in Asia, Europe, and North
America. LoCascio tempers prospects for specialty LED makers: “The Nilas of the world
are hitting a niche market that’s going to be profitable, but it’s still going to be a niche.”  To move Nila beyond Hollywood, Sanfilippo is pushing into Washington. This year, Nila
won a total of $365,000 in contracts to install lights in Senate committee rooms in the
Capitol building. Under the 10-year Green the Capitol initiative launched in 2007 by
House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , the TV lights in the Capitol have to be replaced with
energy-efficient lighting. Nila’s lights made the cut because their small size didn’t mean
making changes to the ceilings or walls of the historic rooms, yet they’re powerful
enough to light speakers standing 75 feet away. Also important was the color quality of
the light, particularly in the committee rooms where lawmakers hold high-profile
hearings. “The senators care very much about how they look on camera,” Sanfilippo
says.  To contact the reporter on this story: Antone Gonsalves at  antoneg@pacbell.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  