-- Hedge Funds Cut Oil Bets as Ireland, China Sap QE2 Gains: Energy Markets
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r   a n d   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 2010-11-22T20:17:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/hedge-funds-cut-oil-bets-most-in-three-months-energy-markets.html
Hedge funds cut bullish bets on oil
by the most in almost three months amid speculation fallout from
the Irish debt crisis and China’s efforts to curb inflation will
slow economic growth, sapping demand for fuel.  The funds and other large speculators reduced so-called
 long positions , or wagers on rising prices, by 15 percent in the
seven days ended Nov. 16, according to the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s weekly Commitments of Traders report,
released Nov. 19. It was the first drop in four weeks and the
largest decline since the seven days ended Aug. 24.  Bets on gains in oil prices climbed to the highest level in
at least four years in the week before the Federal Reserve
announced it would spend $600 billion buying Treasuries through
the second round of so-called quantitative easing, or QE2, to
keep the economic recovery on track. Crude rose to a two-year
high of $87.81 a barrel on Nov. 11 in New York. It has since
lost 6.9 percent as Ireland moved closer to a European Union
bailout and China, the world’s biggest energy consumer, took
steps to curb bank lending.  “The drop from extremely high levels makes perfectly valid
sense, given the uncertainty now of QE2 and renewed concern
regarding a European banking situation, namely Ireland,” said
 Kyle Cooper , director of research at IAF Advisors in Houston.
“This has led to uneasiness regarding oil demand, and the
liquidation occurred in that very large speculative position.”  Net-long positions dropped by 30,518 futures and options
combined to 178,397 the week ended Nov. 16, according to the
commission report. These are held by what the CFTC categorizes
as managed money, including hedge funds, commodity pools and
commodity-trading advisers.  Futures Fall  Oil for January delivery fell 24 cents, or 0.3 percent, to
settle at $81.74 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Crude declined 4 percent last week, the biggest drop in three
months.  Investors are scaling back bets on stocks and commodities
amid concern Ireland’s debt woes will spread to other nations
within the European Union, slowing growth in the $12 trillion
economy. The  S&P GSCI Index  of 24 raw materials tumbled 4.8
percent the past two weeks. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of
stocks declined 2.1 percent.  Ireland applied yesterday for a bailout to help fund itself
and save its banks, becoming the second euro member to seek a
rescue from the European Union and the International Monetary
Fund. Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  said he expects talks on
the package to be completed “in the next few weeks.”  Chinese Steps  On Nov. 19, China, the fastest-growing major economy,
ordered lenders for the fifth time this year to set aside more
funds to drain cash from the financial system. The International
Energy Agency said on Nov. 12 that Chinese oil use was poised to
increase 9.5 percent this year.  The Fed is expanding its stimulus program to help the U.S.
recover from the deepest recession since the 1930s. The nation’s
 unemployment rate  is 9.6 percent.  Investors initially flooded the market with money, pushing
up prices, on the expectation the Fed action would help boost
the U.S. economy, said  Hamza Khan , an analyst at the Schork
Group Inc., a consulting company in Villanova, Pennsylvania.  “People stopped looking at the U.S. alone and started
looking at the broader picture, including China’s inflation,
domestic consumers and European debt,” he said.  In other markets, bullish, or long, bets on  gasoline  prices
rose 15 percent to 62,666 futures and options combined, the CFTC
data showed. Net-long bets on  heating oil  advanced to the
highest level in more than four years, increasing by 1,709, or
3.3 percent, to 52,846.  Gas Contracts  Net-long  positions in futures and options combined in four
natural-gas contracts climbed for a third week, rising by
9,217.5 futures equivalents, or 20 percent, to 54,791.75 in the
week ended Nov. 16, the CFTC report showed. It was the highest
level since September.  The measure of net longs includes an index of four
contracts adjusted to futures equivalents: Nymex natural gas
futures, Nymex Henry Hub Swaps, Nymex Henry Hub Penultimate
Swaps and ICE Henry Hub Swaps. Henry Hub, in Erath, Louisiana,
is the delivery point for Nymex futures, a benchmark price for
the fuel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Asjylyn Loder  in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net ;
 Margot Habiby  in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  