-- Medtronic to Buy Ardian for $800 Million to Gain Novel Hypertension Device
-- B y   D a v i d   O l m o s
-- 2010-11-23T00:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/medtronic-to-buy-ardian-for-800-million-to-gain-novel-hypertension-device.html
Medtronic Inc.,  the world’s largest
heart device maker, said it will acquire Ardian Inc., a closely
held company developing a hypertension device that destroys
nerves near the kidney, for $800 million.  Medtronic, based in Minneapolis, said it will pay $800
million in cash plus milestones based on Ardian’s revenue
through 2015. Medtronic already owns 11 percent of the Mountain
View, California, device company.  Medtronic Chief Executive  Bill Hawkins  said in September
that the company would pursue “opportunistic” acquisitions to
fill holes in its business. Medtronic has been looking for
higher-growth areas as its core businesses in heart and spinal
devices experience an industry-wide slowdown.  Ardian’s technology is “one of the most exciting growth
markets in medical devices,”  Sean Salmon , vice president of
Medtronic’s coronary and peripheral business, said in a
statement.  Ardian released a study Nov. 17 showing its catheter-based
device was effective in reducing high blood pressure, or
hypertension, in patients who hadn’t responded to drugs and
other treatments. The 106-patient study found the nerve-
destroying procedure dropped patients’ systolic blood pressure
to an average of 146/84 from a baseline of 178/96.  Medtronic gained 10 cents, or less than 1 percent, to
$34.70 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The company  declined  12 percent in the past 12 months.  Medtronic’s Deals  Medtronic has announced 25 pending or completed
acquisitions over the past five years, with an average size of
$446 million and an average premium of 71 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The biggest deal was the 2007
purchase of spine-surgery device maker Kyphon Inc. for $3.8
billion.  Medtronic had $3.9 billion in  cash  and short-term
investments as of July 10, 2010.  Among the investors in Ardian are venture capital firms
 Advanced Technology Ventures , of Waltham, Massachusetts;
Emergent Medical Partners, of Portola Valley, California;
Morgenthaler Ventures, of Menlo Park, California, and  Split Rock
Partners , of Eden Prairie, Minnesota. The company was started by
 The Foundry , a medical device incubator in Menlo Park,
California.  Thirty-one percent of U.S. adults have high blood pressure,
a condition that puts them at greater risk of heart disease,
stroke and kidney disease.  Hypertension  was a factor in the
deaths of 326,000 Americans in 2006, according to the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention.  Blood Pressure  Medical groups  recommend t hat blood pressure be about
120/80 millimeters of mercury, or mmHg. The top number reflects
systolic pressure, measuring heart contractions, and the bottom
is diastolic pressure, when the heart fills with blood.  Ardian’s procedure uses a catheter, or a tiny wire,
inserted through the leg into an artery near the kidneys, said
Murray Esler, a researcher at Baker IDI Heart and Diabetes
Institute in Melbourne, Australia, who led the recent study. The
catheter emits high-frequency radio waves to destroy nerves near
the kidney that have been linked to hypertension. The procedure
typically requires a one-night hospital stay, Esler said.  Ardian’s device, the Symplicity Catheter System, is
approved for sale in Europe and Australia though not yet cleared
in the U.S., the companies said in today’s statement. Ardian
planned to begin a 300-patient trial in the U.S. in early 2011,
Andrew Cleeland, Ardian’s chief executive officer, said in a
Nov. 16 interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  