-- Lehman Pays Advisers $1.1 Billion in 25 Months Since Filing for Bankruptcy
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2010-11-22T16:53:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/lehman-pays-advisers-1-1-billion-in-25-1-2-months-update1-.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. paid
its lawyers and managers $42.1 million in October, bringing
total advisers’ fees to $1.1 billion after 25 1/2 months in
bankruptcy, according to a court filing.  Restructuring firm Alvarez & Marsal LLC, which runs the
defunct investment bank through its co-founder,  Bryan Marsal ,
led recipients with $369.8 million in fees through October for
“interim management,” according to today’s filing in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court.  Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP  of New York has
collected $245.8 million for acting as the lead bankruptcy law
firm.  Jones Day, which is handling Lehman’s $11 billion lawsuit
against Barclays Plc and other litigation, made $40.8 million
through October.  Advisers’ fees haven’t faced major challenges from the
bankruptcy judge or trustee who monitor such payments.  “The strategy of managing and maximizing the value of
assets rather than liquidating quickly at fire sale values --
and of pursuing litigation when we believe the potential value
warrants it -- takes time and requires fees,” Marsal said in an
e-mail today. “But it will yield far greater returns for the
creditors than all the costs of personnel and legal and
professional services combined.”  Creditor Claims  Marsal, 59, said Sept. 22 that he aimed to raise $57.5
billion in the next five years, cutting creditor claims against
those funds to about $365 billion. That would yield creditors an
average of about 15.8 cents on the dollar, though some creditors
would get more, and some would get less.  Lehman  became the most expensive bankruptcy to administer
in U.S. history in April, when it topped the $757 million cost
of energy trader Enron Corp.’s three-year liquidation, according
to the database of  Lynn LoPucki , a bankruptcy-law professor at
the University of California, Los Angeles.  By Oct. 31, Lehman and its affiliates had  cash  and
investments of $21.1 billion to liquidate and pay  creditors ,
according to the filing.  Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
reply to an e-mail seeking comment,  Lehman, once the world’s fourth-biggest  investment bank ,
filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in September 2008
with  assets  of $639 billion. Creditors include Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.,  UBS AG , the New York Giants professional football
team and Abu Dhabi Investment Authority as well as individuals
who hold Lehman bonds.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Linda Sandler  in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 