-- Lehman Asks Judge to Reverse Barclays’ ‘Windfall’
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2010-11-22T23:42:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/lehman-asks-judge-to-reverse-11-billion-windfall-that-went-to-barclays.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  asked
a judge to reverse billions of dollars in “unauthorized”
transfers of assets to Barclays Plc when it bought the defunct
investment bank’s brokerage in the 2008 financial crisis,
according to a court filing.  Lehman has accused the U.K. bank of making an $11 billion
“windfall” on the purchase.  “The sale transaction that was disclosed to the court was
based upon false premises from the very outset,” Lehman’s
lawyer,  Robert Gaffey , told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James in a
court filing today that is his last chance to sway the judge.
Peck may rule on Lehman’s yearlong lawsuit against Barclays in
January or February, said lawyers in the case.  The fight in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan pits the
U.K.’s third-biggest bank against Lehman, which wants money to
pay off creditors. Peck said after more than 30 days of
witnesses that he was in “uncharted territory.” He asked both
sides to advise him --in filings due today -- how to apply the
law.  “I have a big job in front of me,” he said in court last
month. “I know you’re going to help me.”  Lehman, which filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history
on Sept. 15, 2008, got “a strong push” from the U.S. Federal
Reserve Bank of New York and the Securities and Exchange
Commission to declare itself bankrupt, according to today’s
filing. The regulators Lehman’s board the day before it “knows
what our opinion is on this,” according to the filing.  Peck, 65, was the Manhattan court’s second most-junior
bankruptcy judge when he was randomly assigned the $639 billion-
asset  Lehman  bankruptcy in September 2008. His sale order that
month gave lawyers leeway to make changes in the deal, and he
didn’t demand to know about them.  ‘More Complex’  “His job is more complex by not telling lawyers to do what
they’re supposed to do, which is to tell him about changes,”
said  Chip Bowles , a bankruptcy lawyer at Greenebaum Doll &
McDonald PLLC in Louisville, Kentucky, who has written articles
on the case. “These were changes that transferred billions of
dollars to Barclays.”  Peck must decide whether to alter a deal sealed in a week
of financial turmoil, or let all or part of it stand. He said in
court last month he had been leaning toward Barclays’ view,
expressed by lawyer  David Boies , that he would have approved the
sale even if he’d known everything he knows now.  “But I’m not sure if that’s the right way to think about
the case,” he said.  Contracts are usually final under federal law. Judges can
reopen a contract to correct mistakes or, under so-called Rule
60(b), if new evidence or fraud is discovered. Still, University
of California, Los Angeles professor  Lynn LoPucki  said he knows
of no emergency bankruptcy sale in his 898-case database that
has been reopened.  In today’s filing, Gaffey said essential aspects of the
sale to Barclays “were either misrepresented to the court, or,
worse, never disclosed at all.” They included Barclays’ profit
on the deal, which the judge was told would be a “balanced”
transaction, and obligations it said it would assume and didn’t,
he said.  Lack of Disclosure  Because of the lack of disclosure, he said Peck was
justified in revising the sale to ensure that it matched “the
transaction that was actually described to the court.”  “Any other result would convert the sale order into a
license to make any deal, at all, regardless of whether the deal
that closed was consistent with the deal that was disclosed and
actually approved,” he said in the filing.  Barclays  was the sole bidder for Lehman’s brokerage, taking
10,000 employees and giving 72,000 customers access to $40
billion in assets frozen in the bankruptcy, the bank has said.
Such so-called 363 sales also helped the former General Motors
Corp. and Chrysler LLC to reorganize in bankruptcy.  Lehman’s November 2009 lawsuit accuses Barclays of taking a
$5 billion “secret” profit on a portfolio of securities it
acquired with the brokerage, and of making another $6 billion by
writing up business assets, skimping on promised payments and
“grabbing” more financial assets belonging to Lehman. Some of
the disputed assets were assigned to Barclays in a so-called
clarification letter that should have been shown to Peck, Lehman
says.  If Peck had known about the “windfall,” he could have
made sure the contract allowed Lehman to share the profit,
Gaffey said in the filing. The judge could have appointed
someone neutral to oversee deal negotiations, in case Lehman
executives seeking jobs at Barclays were aiding the bank, and he
could have made Barclays refund any unpaid bonuses or contract
obligations, Gaffey said.  Barclays’ lawyer David Boies has told Peck in court that
federal law doesn’t allow him to rewrite the sale contract.
Corp. and Chrysler LLC to reorganize in bankruptcy.  “Rule 60 does not give a court the right in a Rule 60
proceeding, we submit, to rewrite the contract and impose
additional changes that Barclays didn’t agree to at the time,”
Boies told Peck last month.  Lehman wants “to construct an entirely new contract by
taking certain provisions that they like and disregarding those
that they don’t like,” he said.  At a Sept. 14, 2008 board meeting, Lehman directors asked
regulators if they would stop funding the Lehman brokerage if
its parent refused to file for bankruptcy, according to the
filing. Christopher Cox, then SEC chairman, showed “some
hesitation” before denying he was saying that, according to the
filing. The same Sunday evening, Lehman directors voted for
bankruptcy.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Linda Sandler  in New York at +1-212-617-2398 or
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at +1-212-617-1092 or  drovella@bloomberg.net . 