-- Somalis Face Hamburg Court in First German Piracy Trial for Four Centuries
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2010-11-22T13:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/ten-somalis-are-tried-in-hamburg-court-over-indian-ocean-pirate-attack.html
Ten Somalis were accused by
prosecutors of attacking the ship Taipan on the Indian Ocean, in
Germany’s first piracy trial in four centuries.  The men captured the German container vessel, which was 530
nautical miles east of the horn of Africa, prosecutor Friederike
Dopke told the court in Hamburg. They planned to kidnap the crew
and seek a ransom, she said.  Somali pirates were responsible for 44 percent of the 289
piracy incidents on the world’s seas in the first nine months of
2010 and carried out 35 of the 39 ship hijackings worldwide,
according to the  International Maritime Bureau . The European
Union in 2008 dispatched its Atalanta maritime mission to fight
piracy off the coast of Somalia.  “The captain tried to escape by maneuvering the ship in a
different direction,” said Dopke. “He didn’t succeed and after
he shot the signal gun twice, the accused opened fire.”  The Taipan crew was able to flee to a secure room within
the vessel and cut power to the engines. They were rescued after
three and a half hours by Dutch navy sailors who recaptured the
ship and arrested the Somalis. An Amsterdam court in June
allowed their extradition to Germany.  The first evidence introduced in the trial will look at the
age of one of the Somalis, who says he is 13, to see if he is
old enough to stand trial in Germany. Presiding Judge Bernd
Steinmetz said the court will assume he is at least the minimum
age of 14 until the issue is resolved.  Peer Group  Prosecutors relied on a Dutch expert who said the accused
is at least 15 and a German expert who found that he was already
18. His attorney Thomas Jung asked the court to drop the case
against him, because the experts had failed to compare him with
people from the right peer group.  Jung said it’s wrong to compare a Somali boy with an
American or European of the same age. Somali teenagers may grow
up faster because of the tough situation in their homeland, he
said.  The trial must clarify whether it was legal under national
and international law for the men to be arrested by the Dutch in
open seas, put in custody in the Netherlands and then extradited
to Germany, said Philipp Napp, the defense lawyer for one of the
suspects.  A trial in Germany makes no sense because a conviction
won’t change the causes of piracy in the Indian Ocean, said
Napp, who delivered an opening statement for the whole group.  Civil War  “Somalia is a country stricken by civil war since 1991,”
said Napp. “We will have to look at how predatory industrial
fishing by Europeans and Asians as well as dumping of toxic
waste around Somali shores affected the living conditions of the
accused,” he said.  All of the suspects have two attorneys who are paid for by
the government. The trial is handled under rules for juveniles
because some suspects are 21 or younger. While most of the
accused are adults, the court said today that it may proceed in
closed chambers to protect the interests of any juveniles.  None of the men has commented on the charges during the
investigation, Wilhelm Moellers, a spokesman for the
prosecutors, said before the trial started today.  “There has been speculation whether the accused we have
before us now are really the people who went on the ship,”
Moellers said. “We have no reasons to doubt that and there are
no indications to that effect.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Hamburg via s 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons in London at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net  