-- Former Enron Broadband Executive Shelby Pleads Guilty to Insider Trading
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2010-11-22T17:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/enron-broadband-s-shelby-pleads-guilty-to-inside-trade-as-charges-dropped.html
Former Enron Broadband Services
executive  Rex Shelby  pleaded guilty to one insider trading count
as prosecutors dropped more serious charges stemming from the
collapse of the world’s largest energy trader nine years ago.  Shelby, 58, agreed to serve as long as six months in a
federal halfway house, plus as long as six months’ house arrest,
and forfeit about $2.5 million to end the final prosecution
linked to what the government claimed was a conspiracy to
overstate the capabilities and performance of  Enron Corp. ’s
Internet unit.  “This ends Enron, because Rex was the very last Enron
defendant standing from prosecutions that resulted from the
company’s bankruptcy,”  Ed Tomko , Shelby’s lawyer, said in a
telephone interview before today’s plea hearing.  U.S. District Judge  Vanessa Gilmore  accepted Shelby’s plea
in her Houston courtroom today. A retrial for Shelby, the
Internet unit’s former senior vice president of engineering
operations, had been set for January. He will remain free on $1
million bond until sentencing, scheduled for Feb. 28.  More than 5,000 jobs and $60 billion in shareholder value
were wiped out when Enron plunged into bankruptcy in December
2001 after widespread accounting fraud was revealed. Enron’s
former chief executive officers  Jeffrey Skilling  and  Kenneth Lay 
were convicted of conspiring to mislead investors about the
 company’s performance,  including the broadband division’s
prospects.  ‘Fair Deal’  “Rex was conflicted about pleading guilty, but we got a
deal that was fair considering the passage of time and the risk
involved,” Tomko said in the interview. “It ensures that Rex
won’t have to go through the uncertainty of another trial like
the last one, which so confused the jury.”  Shelby and six other ex-Enron Broadband executives were
charged in 2003 with hyping the internet unit’s capabilities and
outlook to analysts, in order to pocket millions from the sale
of inflated shares. Investors were told the division might be
worth as much as $40 billion when it was struggling to launch
products and never earned a dime.  Two of the indicted Enron Broadband executives pleaded
guilty before trial, and the remaining five -- including Shelby
-- were tried in Houston federal court in 2005. That trial ended
in no convictions and a smattering of acquittals, as jurors
failed to reach verdicts on scores of counts.  None of the men were completely exonerated, and the
government vowed to streamline its case and retry them all on
narrower charges.  Hirko Plea  Shelby, who would have faced a jury alone next year, was
originally scheduled for retrial alongside the unit’s former CEO
 Joseph Hirko  and ex-strategy chief F.  Scott Yeager . Hirko
pleaded guilty to a reduced charge in late 2008 and agreed to
serve 16 months in prison and forfeit $7 million. In 2009, the
U.S. Supreme Court ruled Yeager couldn’t be retried because of
his partial acquittal at the first trial.  Shelby admitted he made inside trades on Jan. 21, 2000, the
day after EBS executives touted the division’s prospects at an
analysts’ conference, causing shares to skyrocket in price. He
will forfeit the proceeds of that day’s trades, which he had
long maintained were conducted to diversify his portfolio and
not based on any inside knowledge of an alleged conspiracy to
inflate Enron shares.  “The engineers were still working on it, but we left the
impression that technology was complete,,” Shelby told Gilmore
of the analysts’ conference. “The next day, I exercised some
stock options when I had knowledge that technology was not
complete.”  Prosecutors agreed to drop conspiracy, securities fraud and
additional insider trading charges against Shelby in exchange
for his plea.  Executives Retried  The government in 2006 retried two of the remaining EBS
executives, senior accountant  Michael Krautz  and finance chief
 Kevin Howard , resulting in Krautz’s acquittal and Howard’s
conviction.  Howard’s verdicts were overturned a year later, after an
appellate ruling in a related Enron case found that prosecutors
used an invalid legal theory. Howard ultimately pleaded guilty
to reduced charges in June 2009 and accepted a one-year term of
house arrest and a $25,000 fine in order to avoid a third trial.  Earlier this year, the U.S. Supreme Court ordered the New
Orleans appellate court to review Skilling’s convictions, to see
if any were tainted by the invalid legal theory. His bid for a
new trial is pending.  The case is U.S. v. Shelby, H-03-093, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 