-- Mercuria Bids for North Sea Forties Crude; Nigeria Raises Official Prices
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-22T17:07:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/mercuria-bids-for-north-sea-forties-oil-nigeria-raises-prices.html
Mercuria Energy Trading SA sought to
buy a cargo of North Sea Forties crude without finding a seller.
Nigeria raised the official selling price of its benchmark
grades.  Mercuria said it bid for a Forties cargo loading on Dec. 13
to Dec. 15 at 15 cents below the Dated Brent benchmark, without
concluding a transaction.  Reported North Sea market activity typically occurs during
a trading window that ends daily at 4:30 p.m. in London. Prior
to the window,  Forties  loading from 10 to 21 days in the future
cost 37 cents less than Dated Brent, from 45 cents less the day
before, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brent crude for January settlement traded at $83.39 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange at the
close of the window, down from $84.20 a barrel at the same time
on Nov. 19. The February contract traded at $83.55 a barrel,
widening the contango, or price spread, between the two nearest-
term contracts to 16 cents.  Nigeria raised the official selling price of its benchmark
Qua Iboe and Bonny Light crude exports in December by 5 cents a
barrel, according to a price list obtained by Bloomberg News.  Exports of the two grades will be at $1.55 a barrel above
the Dated Brent benchmark next month, the price list compiled by
state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. showed.  On Nov. 19 Royal Dutch Shell Plc declared force majeure on
Bonny Light crude loadings following a pipeline leak.  Indian Oil Corp., the country’s biggest state refiner, is
seeking to buy crude for loading in February, according to
official documents. The tender for oil from regions including
West Africa, North Sea and the Caspian closes on Nov. 24.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  