-- Merrill Lynch Starts Yuan Services This Month as Hedge-Fund Demand Grows
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2010-11-22T03:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/merrill-lynch-starts-yuan-services-this-month-as-hedge-fund-demand-grows.html
Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill
Lynch & Co. unit this month started allowing hedge funds to
deposit yuan and yuan-denominated securities in  prime  broker
accounts as they seek to benefit from Chinese currency gains.  Yuan cash deposits with a prime broker allow hedge funds to
create share classes in the Chinese currency, said  Dan McNicholas , Merrill Lynch’s Hong Kong-based head of financing
sales for the Asia-Pacific region. Separately, a custody account
for yuan-settled securities with a prime broker enables hedge
funds to obtain yuan, buy instruments such as yuan bonds sold in
Hong Kong and borrow against them.  Merrill Lynch is introducing services that hedge funds can
use to wager on further Chinese currency appreciation through
the expanding offshore yuan market. The Chinese government is
encouraging greater use of the currency outside its borders to
cut reliance on the dollar, as money-printing by the Federal
Reserve erodes the appeal of the greenback.  “Large international hedge funds used to use non-
deliverable yuan forward contracts to make such bets,” said  Ben Williams , a Hong Kong-based member of the Asia-Pacific financing
sales team for Merrill Lynch. “These new services allow them to
make the same bets through the potentially cheaper offshore yuan
market.”  The yuan may rise 6.1 percent to 6.26 per dollar by the end
of next year, the most among the so-called BRIC nations that
also include Brazil, Russia and India, according to median
estimates in Bloomberg surveys of analysts.  Quotas  Overseas entities may only buy yuan in the onshore market
if they have investment proposals or trade transactions approved
by the nation’s regulators.  China had as of September given 94 qualified foreign
institutional investors a combined $18.97 billion of quotas, the
only way for international companies to buy yuan shares and
bonds listed in the country.  Hedge funds, which haven’t been able to obtain such
licenses directly, have borrowed quotas from investment banks.
Yet such quotas have become hard to come by, said Williams.  Hedge funds may now join retail investors in Hong Kong and
foreign exporters who receive yuan payments for goods shipped to
China in investing in a growing array of yuan-denominated
securities sold in the city.  McDonald’s Bonds  China Development Bank Corp., Asian Development Bank,
Hopewell Highway Infrastructure Ltd. and McDonald’s Corp. are
among issuers that have sold yuan debt listed in the city.  The so-called “dim sum bond market” jumped 42 percent to
50 billion yuan ($7.5 billion) since July, when an agreement
between Beijing and Hong Kong removed the restrictions on
companies buying or selling yuan in Hong Kong and on yuan
deposit holders in the city transferring cash to buy wealth
management products, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said in a
Nov. 15 report.  The Ministry of Finance plans to sell 8 billion yuan of
bonds in Hong Kong shortly, according to an e-mailed statement
today from Bank of Communications Co. which is helping sell the
bonds to Hong Kong individuals.  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. Chief Executive Officer
 Charles Li  proposed in a September  speech  that Beijing allow
companies to sell yuan stock in Hong Kong.  Yuan Deposits  Yuan deposits  in Hong Kong, being used as a test ground for
promoting the Chinese currency for global commerce, have more
than doubled to a record 149 billion yuan ($22 billion) in the
six months through September. HSBC Holdings Plc forecast this
month they will exceed 400 billion yuan within three years.  About 157 billion yuan of exports have been settled in yuan
since last November, the RBS report said.  Both large international hedge funds and end investors such
as Chinese government funds are looking into the option of yuan-
denominated share classes, in addition to those settled in
dollar, euro, pound or gold, said McNicholas. A yuan share class
allows funds to take subscriptions and honor redemptions from
investors in that share class in yuan.  Some big Chinese funds will have the incentive to create
yuan share classes because the assets they invest in are
denominated in the currency, Williams said.  “Given investor demand and the increasing focus on China,
we’re likely to see the development of yuan share classes among
both regional and global hedge funds,” said Williams.  Prime brokers provide services to hedge funds such as
clearing trades, lending stocks and cash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  