-- Euro, Stocks, Commodities Fall on European Debt Concern
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-11-23T00:06:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/euro-asian-stocks-u-s-futures-advance-after-ireland-seeks-bank-bailout.html
The euro snapped a three-day rally
versus the dollar, stocks and commodities slid and Treasuries
rose as Ireland’s financial bailout failed to assuage concern
Europe’s debt crisis may spread. Banks led U.S. shares lower as
federal agents searched hedge funds in an insider-trading probe.  The euro slid 0.3 percent to $1.3627. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index  lost 0.2 percent to 1,197.84 and the S&P GSCI Index of
commodities declined 0.3 percent. The costs to protect Irish and
Portuguese debt from default surged, while the 10-year U.S.
Treasury yield decreased seven basis points to 2.80 percent
before a sale of $99 billion of notes this week. After the U.S.
close, S&P 500 futures dropped 0.2 percent at 7 p.m. in New York
while Australian and South Korean stocks fell in early trading.  Financial companies led European and U.S. equities lower as
Ireland became the second euro member to seek a rescue from the
European Union and the International Monetary Fund, a move that
may prevent a run on its lenders while threatening its credit
rating and government coalition. The Federal Bureau of
Investigation raided at least three U.S. hedge funds.  “Deleveraging is sort of like a terrier,” said  James Dunigan , chief investment officer at PNC Wealth Management in
Philadelphia, which oversees $105 billion. “It keeps annoying
you. We’ve addressed Ireland’s problems, but nobody knows who’s
next.”  The euro lost 1.1 percent versus the South Korean won and
at least 0.5 percent versus the currencies of Taiwan,
Switzerland and Japan. The dollar strengthened against 10 of 16
major peers.  Financials Lead Declines  Financial companies slumped 1.4 percent for the biggest
decline among 10  industries  in the S&P 500. JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  dropped at least 2.3 percent.
Losses were limited as Amazon.com Inc. led a rally in retailers
before the start of the holiday shopping season, while Hewlett
Packard Co. climbed 1.8 percent before reporting earnings after
the close of trading. The world’s largest computer maker jumped
3.1 percent in after-hours trading after forecasting first-
quarter profit that topped analyst estimates.  Two Connecticut-based hedge funds, Level Global Investors
LP and Diamondback Capital Management LLC, were searched by the
FBI today, agency spokesman  Richard Kolko  said. Agents also
executed a search warrant at Loch Capital Management of Boston,
according to a person familiar with the probe who declined to be
identified because the matter isn’t public. The raids stemmed
from a series of insider trading investigations directed by the
office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara, according to a
person familiar with the probes.  Insider Trading Probe  The Wall Street Journal reported that the Securities and
Exchange Commission and other officials are nearing the end of
an investigation into an insider-trading network involving hedge
funds, mutual-fund traders and investment bankers. The report
late Nov. 19 cited unidentified people familiar with the
situation. One of the focuses is whether Goldman Sachs bankers
divulged information about health-care acquisitions and other
deals, the newspaper said.  The benchmark indexes for U.S. and European stock options
snapped three-day losing streaks as investors boosted buying of
protection on equities. The VIX, as the  Chicago Board Options
Exchange Volatility Index  is known, rose 1.8 percent to 18.37 in
New York. The index measures the cost of using options as
insurance against declines in the S&P 500. The VStoxx Index,
which gauges the cost of protecting against a drop in the Euro
Stoxx 50 Index, climbed 6 percent.  “This FBI probe seems to be gaining some legs,” said  Dan Deming , a VIX options trader at Stutland Equities LLC on the
floor of the CBOE. “The banking sector is feeling some heat
across the board as the feds seem to be stepping up their game a
little bit. It’s definitely having an impact.”  Bank Losses  U.S. banks could lose more than $100 billion as investors
fight to recoup losses from soured mortgages, Barron’s reported
over the weekend. The Financial Times reported that the top 35
U.S. banks will be short between $100 billion and $150 billion
after new international capital requirements are imposed.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  slipped 0.7 percent, erasing
gains of as much as 0.8 percent. Irish banks led declines on
concern that a bailout will dilute existing investor stakes.
Bank of Ireland tumbled 19 percent, while Irish Life & Permanent
Plc sank 27 percent. Porsche SE led auto stocks higher, climbing
4.9 percent, after Bank of America Merrill Lynch recommended
buying the shares, saying the German sports-car maker probably
won’t merge with Volkswagen AG. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index
rallied 0.6 percent.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  climbed 0.2 percent as the
Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  jumped 1.9 percent, its
biggest advance since Nov. 4, with Infosys Technologies Ltd.,
the country’s second-largest software exporter, rising 2.7
percent. Brazil’s Bovespa slid 1.8 percent.  Debt Concerns  The Irish rescue package that Goldman Sachs estimates may
total 95 billion euros ($130 billion) failed to damp speculation
that Portugal and Spain would follow Ireland in tapping the fund
set up by the EU and IMF after the Greece rescue.  Credit-default swaps tied to Irish government bonds rose
20.3 basis points to 527.4, according to CMA, a data provider.
Moody’s Investors Service said it may lower Ireland’s credit
rating by more than it previously anticipated as the aid plan
threatens to boost the country’s debt.  Default swaps on Portugal jumped 40.8 basis points to 457.6
and Greece was 37 basis points higher at 1,006.4, according to
CMA. The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of swaps on 50 mostly
junk-rated European companies climbed 4.7 basis points to 461.5,
Markit Group Ltd. prices show.  Irish Yields  The yield on the Irish 10-year bond slipped 4 basis points
to 8.31 percent. The European Central Bank bought Irish
government bonds today, according to three people with knowledge
of the transactions. A spokeswoman for the ECB in Frankfurt
declined to comment.  “The reality is that the structure is in place at the
moment to put countries in life support but the missing link
still remains the bigger issue of what do you do after that,”
 Cambiz Alikhani , a portfolio manager at Iveagh Wealth Fund in
London, said in an interview. “Until that question is answered
we are still in this rolling bailout situation which has been
ongoing since 2008.”  Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  said he will seek national
elections early next year after his government passes its 2011
budget, one day after he asked the EU to bail out Ireland’s
banking system. Ireland’s Green Party said today it will quit
the government after the budget is passed, leaving Cowen without
a majority in parliament and raising the prospect of January
elections. Irish voters “feel misled” by the government, Green
Party leader  John Gormley  said at a press conference in Dublin.  Treasuries  The yield on the two-year Treasury note slipped 5 basis
points to 0.47 percent. The U.S. auctions $35 billion of the
debt today, followed by sales of five-year securities tomorrow
and seven-year notes in two days.  Cotton, copper, gasoline and coffee fell at least 1.4
percent to lead declines in commodities. Crude oil fell 0.3
percent to $81.74 a barrel in New York.  Cotton declined to a four-week low in New York amid
speculation that global demand will decline as China, the
biggest importer, takes steps to slow growth and as planting
expands in India. Cotton for March delivery dropped as much as
4.9 percent to $1.1715 a pound in New York. The fiber fell 8.2
percent last week, the most since February 2009.  The New Zealand dollar dropped against all 16 of its most-
traded peers, weakening 0.5 percent to 77.45 U.S. cents. S&P
lowered the nation’s credit outlook on its AA+ rating to
negative, saying in a statement that “the main risk to the
ratings would be a significant weakening in the credit quality
of New Zealand’s banking sector.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 