-- European Default Swaps Index Converges With Emerging Markets: Euro Credit
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2010-11-22T13:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/european-default-swaps-index-converges-with-emerging-markets-euro-credit.html
The cost of insuring western
European government debt against default is converging with that
of emerging markets.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 countries, including Germany and Ireland,
climbed this month to within 18.25 basis points of a similar
gauge for emerging-market risk, the closest ever, according to
CMA. The spread was 160 basis points as recently as February.  “Emerging markets have better fundamentals and growth
prospects,” said  Luke Spajic , the London-based head of European
credit portfolio management at Pacific Investment Management
Co., which runs the world’s biggest bond fund. “I’m a buyer of
the idea.”  Junk-rated Turkey, Kazakhstan and Ukraine are navigating
the crisis better than developed European countries because they
have less debt and avoided the plunge in real-estate prices that
plagued the West. The cost of bond insurance for nations from
Greece to France rose 14 percent this month as Ireland faced an
international bailout to prevent contagion in the euro region.  Markit Group Ltd.’s iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of emerging-
market default swaps fell 6.5 percent to 203 basis points since
it started trading on Jan. 20, CMA prices show. That means it
costs $203,000 a year to insure $10 million of bonds for five
years. The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index doubled to
166 basis points in the same period.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
country or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  ‘Trade at Parity’  “There’s a good chance the indexes will trade at parity,”
said  Greg Venizelos , a London-based credit strategist at BNP
Paribas SA, Europe’s largest bank by assets. “Most of the
countries in CEEMEA, like Turkey and Russia, are in better shape
than Spain or Ireland, or Greece or Portugal.”  Europe’s developing nations are forecast by the
 International Monetary Fund  to grow 3.7 percent this year and
3.1 percent in 2011, compared with 1.7 percent and 1.6 percent
for the region’s more advanced economies.  A 1 percentage-point reallocation of the equity and bond
holdings of so-called real-money investors such as insurers and
pension funds from the G-4 countries to developing nations would
equal an exodus of $485 billion,  according to the IMF .  Emerging-Market Stocks  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  of stocks rose 13 percent
this year, compared with the 7 percent increase of Europe’s  Dow
Jones Stoxx 600 Index  and the 8 percent gain of the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index  in the U.S.  Comparing emerging markets with Europe’s developed nations
is “unfair,” said  Gabriel Sterne , an economist at brokerage
Exotix Holdings Ltd. in London. “Unfair on the emerging
countries.”  Government bonds also show how investors perceive that the
risk of western Europe and emerging markets have moved closer
together since the European Union led a rescue of Greece in May.  Turkey has 750 million euros ($1.03 billion) of 5 percent
bonds due in 2016 rated at a junk Ba2 by Moody’s Investors
Service and an equivalent BB by Standard & Poor’s. The notes
yield 3.76 percent, about half that of Ireland’s 4.6 percent
2016 bonds, which are rated as much as nine steps higher, and
close to where those securities were trading as recently as
March.  Turkey Growth  Turkey’s economy  expanded at an annual rate of 10.3 percent
in the second quarter, driven by a consumer boom helped by
record-low interest rates. The nation is matching China with the
fastest growth among the Group of 20 major economies just two
years after it exited an IMF funding program of its own.  Ireland became the second euro-region country to apply for
international aid when Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said
yesterday that the country will seek less than 100 billion euros
from the European Union and IMF. Credit-default swaps tied to
Irish government bonds rose 1 basis point to 508, erasing an
earlier decline, CMA prices show.  Ghana’s $750 million of 8.5 percent notes due 2017, rated B
by S&P, yield 5.93 percent, less than the 6.3 percent rate for
Portugal’s $6.1 billion of 4.35 percent bonds, graded A-.
Albania’s 300 million euros of 7.5 percent 2015 bonds, rated B+,
yield about 8.4 percent, close to Irish debt.  “At that point, an investor might decide it may be better
to buy Polish bonds than Portuguese debt,” said  Christian Keller , an analyst at Barclays Capital in London.  Five-year bonds issued by Greece, which has the highest
speculative-grade rating at S&P, yield 12.3 percent, about 3
percentage points more than Albania or Jamaica, which are rated
at least three steps lower. The $500 million of 7.125 percent
bonds due 2016 of nuclear-armed Pakistan, battling an Islamic
insurgency and rated B-, yield 8.67 percent.  Sharing the Pain  Credit-default swaps on western European government debt
and bond yields soared after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
called Oct. 29 for bondholders to bear more of the cost to bail
out nations that have to restructure their debt. She repeated
the remarks Nov. 11 in Seoul at the G-20 summit, sending yields
on Ireland’s benchmark 10-year bond to a record 8.9 percent.  “This whole thing has been so incredibly badly handled it
doesn’t bear thinking about,” said  Gary Jenkins , head of fixed
income at Evolution Securities Ltd. in London. “Sovereigns are
reliant on the bond market, so saying to bondholders they’re
going to take some pain is self-fulfilling. It was an
irresponsible, ridiculous thing to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  