-- Europe Faces More Sovereign Crises, Morgan Stanley's Roach Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-11-22T18:56:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/europe-faces-more-sovereign-crises-morgan-stanley-s-roach-says-tom-keene.html
Europe should prepare to face more
sovereign “vulnerability issues” following Ireland’s request
for a rescue package, according to  Stephen Roach , non-executive
Asia chairman at Morgan Stanley.  “You do wonder about potential collateral damage down the
road to southern Europe,” Roach, 65, said in a radio interview
on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “The sequencing
has actually been pretty predictable: Greece first, Ireland, and
there are still question marks with respect to Portugal and
Spain.”  Ireland became the second euro-zone country to seek a
rescue as the cost of saving its banks threatened a rerun of the
Greek debt crisis that destabilized the currency. A rescue
package that Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimates may total
95 billion euros ($130 billion) failed to damp speculation that
Portugal and Spain would need to tap an emergency fund set up by
the European Union and International Monetary Fund.  The aid, which Ireland’s government said as recently as
Nov. 15 it didn’t need, marks the latest blow to an economy that
more than doubled in the decade ended in 2006. The bursting of
the real-estate bubble in 2008 plunged the country into a
recession and brought its banks close to collapse. With Irish
 bond yields  near a record high, policy makers are trying to keep
the crisis from spreading.  “The euro conceptually was a grand experiment in economic
integration,” Roach said. “The biggest flaw was the one that
was identified from the get-go: monetary unification without
fiscal unification.”  The euro, the official currency of 16
nations in Europe, was introduced in 1999.  Spread With Bunds  The difference in  yield  between Irish and German 10-year
debt widened to 544 basis points after narrowing last week. The
yield on Irish 10-year notes fell three basis points to 8.09
percent. The yield on the benchmark German bund dropped five
basis points to 2.65 percent.  The aid package for Ireland will total as much as 60
percent of gross domestic product, compared with 47 percent for
Greece. Irish banks may get immediate capital injections,
 Matthew Elderfield , the country’s head of financial regulation,
said in a speech today.  “Every time we go through one of these post-crisis
aftershocks, as I think is appropriate to call the situation in
Europe, the authorities come up with the grand package that says
it’s over,” Roach said. “We have that same sort of inclination
in the U.S. We call it QE2. When you have mismanaged your
economy and your monetary policy and your fiscal finances for as
long as the developed world has done, there really are no such
things as quick fixes that cure things overnight.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  