-- European Stocks Fall as Irish Rescue Fails to Reassure Investors
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-11-22T17:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/european-u-s-stock-index-futures-rise-as-ireland-seeks-international-aid.html
European stocks retreated as
Ireland’s request for a bailout failed to convince investors
that the region’s sovereign-debt crisis can be contained.  Bank of Ireland Plc led a selloff in banks, plunging 19
percent in Dublin, as Moody’s Investors Service warned it would
likely downgrade the nation’s credit rating by several levels.
Vestas Wind Systems A/S fell 5.3 percent after the company’s
outlook disappointed investors. Porsche SE and Renault SA paced
advancing shares after BofA-Merrill Lynch Global Research
recommended the carmakers.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  fell 0.7 percent to
267.74 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London. The gauge retreated
last week as investors awaited confirmation on whether Ireland
would accept a bailout that the central bank governor said may
be worth “tens of billions” of euros.  “There seems to be a creeping realization that this won’t
necessarily mark the end of the euro-zone sovereign-debt
crisis,” said London-based Will Heddon, a sales trader at IG
Index. “This lack of conviction from traders is resulting in
the early support ebbing away.”  Ireland is the second euro country to need a rescue as the
cost of saving its banks threatened a rerun of the Greek debt
crisis that destabilized the currency.  Channel Money  Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  told reporters late
yesterday that Ireland will channel some of the money from the
European Union and International Monetary Fund to lenders
through a “contingent” capital fund. The rest of the package,
which Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimates may total 95 billion
euros ($130 billion), would help Ireland avoid selling bonds.  “The structure is in place at the moment to put countries
on life support, but the missing link still remains the bigger
issue of what do you do after that,” said London-based  Cambiz Alikhani , portfolio manager at Iveagh Wealth Fund. “Until that
question is answered we are still in this rolling bailout
situation which has been ongoing since 2008.”  Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, said Ireland’s rescue will total
“less than” 100 billion euros. Speaking in an interview today
with RTL Luxembourg radio, he also said the efforts to help
Ireland overcome the problems in its banking industry will
prevent the crisis spreading to other countries.  Even so, national benchmark indexes declined in all 18
western European markets today except Iceland, with gauges in
Ireland, Greece, Spain, Portugal and Italy all tumbling at least
1 percent.  Credit Negative  Moody’s today said a “multi-notch” downgrade to Ireland’s
Aa2 credit rating was “most likely” as the bailout may
increase the debt burden and pose a “credit negative” for the
country. Ireland’s rating will probably remain within the
investment-grade category, Moody’s said.  Irish banks tumbled on concern that the bailout package
will dilute existing investors’ stakes in the lenders. Bank of
Ireland dropped 19 percent to 38.9 euro cents,  Irish Life &
Permanent Plc  fell 26 percent to 85.5 cents and Allied Irish
Banks Plc declined 6.2 percent to 40.8 cents.  Spain’s Banco Santander SA fell 4 percent to 8.19 euros
while National Bank of Greece SA declined 4.1 percent to 6.79
euros. Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc retreated 4.6 percent to
39.84 pence.  Vestas declined 5.3 percent to 169.2 kroner after the
world’s largest maker of wind turbines said next year’s revenue
and profitability level will be unchanged.  Carmakers Advance  Porsche climbed 4.9 percent to 52.43 euros and  Volkswagen 
AG, Europe’s largest carmaker by sales, increased 2.6 percent to
125.9 as BofA-Merrill Lynch resumed its “buy” recommendations
for the carmakers.  Analysts wrote in a report today that the companies were
unlikely to merge as the Porsche/Piech family will likely oppose
a combination. Porsche may raise 5 billion euros in the first
half of next year, they wrote, giving the shares a price
estimate of 65 euros apiece.  Renault increased 1.5 percent to 43.8 euros as BofA-Merrill
Lynch also raised their share-price estimate for France’s
second-biggest carmaker to 60 euros from 55. That’s 39 percent
higher than last week’s closing price.  Draka Holding NV soared 27 percent to 19.60 euros after
Tianjin Xinmao S&T Investment Corp. offered 20.50 euros in cash
per ordinary share for the Dutch cable maker, rivaling an
earlier offer from Prysmian SpA.  Prysmian announced plans to buy Draka for 840 million
euros, beating a bid by Nexans which Draka formally rejected.
The offer valued Draka at 17.20 euros per share. Prysmian
dropped 4.9 percent to 12.40 euros.  Taylor Wimpey Plc  climbed 3.3 percent to 25.3 pence after
the U.K.’s second-largest homebuilder by volume announced plans
to sell 250 million pounds ($401 million) of senior five-year
notes and has agreed to a 100 million-pound debt facility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 