-- Euro Declines Most Since August on Speculation Irish Turmoil Will Spread
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-11-23T22:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/euro-holds-loss-on-concern-irish-election-prospect-will-hinder-aid-talks.html
The euro dropped the most against
the dollar in three months as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
said the 16-nation currency is in an “exceptionally serious”
situation after Ireland asked for a financial rescue.  The yen rallied against the Australian and Canadian dollars
as North and South Korea exchanged artillery fire, spurring
investors to seek refuge. Federal Reserve minutes showed some
policy makers were concerned about the impact of quantitative
easing on the greenback. The euro dropped versus all of its
major counterparts on concern attention will turn to Portugal
and Spain as the cost of insuring the nations’ bank debt surges.  “There’s a good chance that another domino could fall in
Europe,” said  Kathy Lien , director of currency research at the
online currency trader GFT Forex in New York. “The risk of
escalating uncertainty has and will continue to keep currencies
under pressure and make investors nervous.”  The euro fell 1.9 percent to $1.3367 at 5 p.m. in New York,
from $1.3627 yesterday. The Swiss franc advanced 1.1 percent to
1.3330 against the euro, from 1.3484. The yen gained 2.1 percent
to 111.16 per euro, from 113.56. The dollar decreased 0.2
percent to 83.16 yen, from 83.33.  Europe’s currency slid earlier 2 percent to $1.3361, the
lowest level since Sept. 24. It was the biggest intraday
decrease since Aug. 11, when the euro fell as much as 2.4
percent on demand for the greenback’s safety a day after the
Federal Reserve cited slower U.S. economic growth.  Fed Minutes  Minutes of the Fed’s Nov. 2-3 meeting showed policy
makers disagreed over the decision to buy $600 billion of
Treasuries, with a majority seeing a boost to growth and
employment and a minority concerned about risks to inflation and
the dollar.  “They had to go with some quantitative easing,” said
 Brian Dolan , chief strategist at FOREX.com, a unit of the online
currency trading firm Gain Capital in Bedminster, New Jersey.
“They had no alternative.”  South Korean won forwards dropped the most in six months,
with the one-month non-deliverable contract sliding 3.3 percent
to 1,166.50 per dollar as South Korea said the North lobbed
shells into the South near their border, killing two soldiers.  The contract tumbled as much as 4.2 percent to 1,179.10
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The won ended
the day depreciating 1 percent to 1,137.46 before the clashes
were announced.  A South Korean Defense Ministry official, who declined to
be identified, said the military scrambled fighter jets and will
“respond strongly” to further provocation.  ‘On Edge’  “The North Korean situation has got everybody on edge,”
said  Andrew Busch , a global currency strategist at Bank of
Montreal in Chicago. “You have the whole European debt
situation in play, and then you put a safe-haven play on top of
that. It really accelerates moves.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  decreased 1.4 percent.
Futures on crude oil dropped 0.8 percent to $81.07 a barrel. The
yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell as much as 0.08
percentage point to 2.73 percent, the lowest since Nov. 12.  The Canadian dollar declined 0.6 percent to C$1.0247 versus
the U.S. currency and fell 0.8 percent to 81.16 yen on increased
demand for safety as the clash in Korea overshadowed a Canadian
report that showed annual inflation accelerated last month more
than economists forecast.  The Australian dollar slid 1.8 percent to 80.86 yen. New
Zealand’s kiwi fell 1.7 percent to 75.87 U.S. cents. Malaysia’s
ringgit weakened for the first time in four days, sliding 1
percent to 3.1336 versus the dollar.  ‘Korea Escalation’  “This escalation of the Korean situation is pitted against
the backdrop of concern over Ireland,” said  Andrew Wilkinson ,
senior market analyst at Interactive Brokers Group LLC in
Greenwich, Connecticut. “Markets do not like geopolitical
conflict.”  The euro fell against the dollar a day after Irish Prime
Minister  Brian Cowen  announced he will seek elections early next
year. Over the weekend, the government said it would ask the
European Union and the International Monetary Fund to bail out
the nation’s banking system.  Parliamentary support for Cowen evaporated yesterday after
the Green Party, his junior coalition partner, said he
“misled” voters over the past two weeks.  Merkel said in Berlin that she will keep pushing for a
permanent rescue system that forces bondholders to accept losses
on sovereign defaults from 2013. At the same time, “tough
conditions” will be imposed on any nation that seeks a bailout.  The cost of insuring Spanish and Portuguese subordinated
bank bonds climbed as traders of credit-default swaps turned
their focus to southern Europe following Ireland’s bailout.  Swaps on Portugal’s Banco Espirito Santo SA rose to a
record while contracts on Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA,
Spain’s second-biggest lender, climbed to the highest in more
than four months.  European Central Bank Governing Council member  Ewald Nowotny  said the euro is stable and not in danger. Breaking up
the euro area into two zones would be extremely negative for all
parties concerned, he said.  “This discussion is nonsense,” Nowotny said in a live
interview with Austrian state television ORF when asked whether
it would make sense to split the euro area into two. “A breakup
of the euro zone would be extremely negative for everybody and
must be ruled out,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  