-- Ex-Madoff Employee Bongiorno Unable to Post Bail, Must Remain in Custody
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-11-22T23:22:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/ex-madoff-employee-bongiorno-unable-to-post-bail-must-remain-in-custody.html
Annette Bongiorno ,  Bernard Madoff ’s
longtime secretary indicted this month in his Ponzi scheme, lost
her bid for bail and was ordered by a federal magistrate in
Florida to be taken to New York to face charges.  Bongiorno, 62, who started working for Madoff in 1968,
shortly after she graduated from high school, is charged in a
federal indictment with conspiracy, securities fraud and tax
evasion. U.S. Magistrate Judge  Ann E. Vitunac  in West Palm Beach
today denied Bongiorno’s request to be released with electronic
monitoring or under house arrest.  Bongiorno worked as Madoff’s personal secretary in the
1980s. She also had clerical duties at Bernard Madoff Investment
Securities LLC. Clients who discovered the wrong Social Security
numbers on their statements were told to call Bongiorno,
according to a copy of one such notice.  She took $14.4 million out of the investment fund by
creating sham trades in her own account, where she deposited a
total of $920,000 from 1975 to 2008, the government charged.  She also received $325,000 in off-the-books payments from
the firm, prosecutors charged.  She faces a prison sentence of as long as 75 years if
convicted of all charges, the U.S. said.  Family, Friends  Maurice Sercarz, Bongiorno’s lawyer, said in court that he
was continuing to work with federal prosecutors and agents in
New York to come up with at least five family members or friends
of Bongiorno’s who can post $2 million in assets to secure a
$5 million bond.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Marie Villafaña said at today’s
hearing that the government might not accept one property as
collateral because the owner has a previous felony conviction.  “I’m not sure he can be used as a surety,” Villafaña
said.  The Brooklyn, New York, storefront is worth more than
$975,000, Sercarz said.  Last week, prosecutors demanded at least $3.5 million in
hard assets to secure a $7 million bond for Bongiorno, who lives
in Manhasset, New York, and has a winter home in Boca Raton,
Florida. They lowered the amounts to be consistent with the bond
terms given to another former Madoff employee,  Joann Crupi , of
Westfield, New Jersey, who was also arrested on Nov. 18.  Crupi , who was hired by the firm in 1983 as a keypunch
operator, was arrested the same day as Bongiorno. She was
released on bail on Nov. 19.  Cash, Homes  Prosecutors have been seeking to seize more than $2 million
in cash and the New York and Florida homes from Bongiorno and
her husband, a former electrician with the New York City
Department of Transportation. The couple is fighting the seizure
attempt.  Madoff, 72, pleaded guilty last year to fraud and was
sentenced to 150 years in prison for using new investors’ funds
for payouts to existing ones in a scheme that ran from at least
the early 1990s.  At the time of Madoff’s arrest, his firm’s statements
reflected 4,900 accounts with $65 billion in nonexistent
investments, according to  Irving Picard , the trustee overseeing
the bankruptcy of Madoff Securities. Investors lost about $20
billion in principal.  The case is USA v. Bongiorno, 10-mj-08361, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (West Palm Beach). The New
York case is 10-cr-00228, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan). The Madoff case is U.S. v. Madoff,
09-cr-00213, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 