-- Texas Rangers' Official Got Death Threats During Sale Process, Lawyer Said
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-11-23T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/texas-rangers-official-received-death-threats-over-bankruptcy-lawyer-says.html
William Snyder , the chief
restructuring officer for the American League champion Texas
Rangers baseball team, got death threats during the team’s
bankruptcy proceedings, a lawyer in the case told a judge.  “If William were here, he would say this is a stinky
case,” Snyder’s attorney,  Louis Strubeck , told U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge  D. Michael Lynn  in Fort Worth, Texas, during a closed-door
conference call in July, according to a transcript of the call
released yesterday. “He has received some serious, continuous
death threats since he’s taken over.”  The Major League Baseball team filed for bankruptcy in May
with a plan to sell the club to Hall of Fame pitcher  Nolan Ryan 
and  Chuck Greenberg . Creditors opposed the $575 million deal
from the start, and Snyder, who was appointed to evaluate the
proposed sale, pushed for an auction. The Rangers agreed to
consider rival bids.  At the auction, Ryan, the team’s president, and Greenberg
won the bidding with a $593 million offer, defeating  Mark Cuban 
the owner of the Dallas Mavericks, and Houston businessman  Jim Crane , who joined to bid for the team together.  The July conference covered the conduct of the lawyers in
the case and other aspects of the bankruptcy. The transcript of
was released after the New York Times in September asked the
court to unseal it.  ‘Irate Fans’  Snyder, a managing partner at CRG Partners Group LLC, said
in a phone interview yesterday that he got about five
threatening e-mails from “irate fans” who wanted the team sold
to Ryan, a former pitcher for the club. One person wrote that if
Ryan didn’t get the team, “someone’s going to kill you,” he
said.  The e-mails came at a point when Snyder had called off an
auction and negotiated a sale agreement with Crane, he said. He
said the U.S. Marshals Service investigated the messages.  By July, the Rangers were in contention to win their
division. The club eventually went on to make its first ever
appearance in the World Series, where it lost to the San
Francisco Giants. Snyder, who said he didn’t feel in danger,
said he understood why fans were frustrated that Ryan might not
get control.  “The team had their ass kicked for the last 10 years. He
manages it, and they’re on their way to a winning season. He’s
the only hope they had,” he said.  During the July meeting, the judge complained about
statements in the press from people involved in the case.  “If any of you or your clients want to take out a contract
on me, tell them to be sure to aim true and to make it as
painless as possible,” Lynn said.  The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners,
10-43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas
(Fort Worth).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dawn McCarty  in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 