-- Mexico Searching for Three Hitmen in Connection With Ex-Governor's Killing
-- B y   A d r i a n a   L o p e z   C a r a v e o   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2010-11-22T17:45:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/mexican-authorities-search-for-three-suspects-in-former-governor-killing.html
Mexican authorities are searching
for three suspects in the shooting death of a former governor of
Colima state, the latest in a series of politician killings amid
the federal government’s war on drug trafficking.  The suspects arrived in a sport-utility vehicle and opened
fire on ex-Governor Jesus Silverio Cavazos outside his home in
southwestern city of Colima, striking him in the throat,
according to a telephone interview today with state Attorney
General  Arturo Diaz Rivera . Police have located and seized the
Jeep Patriot used in the shooting, and a policeman who witnessed
the crime provided a description of the lead shooter, he said.  “Colima is a very small state, where criminal acts hit
hard,” Diaz Rivera said, in a separate interview broadcast on
 Radio Formula  today. “When a homicide of this nature happens,
it’s clearly worrisome.”  Organized crime groups funded by the drug trade are
increasingly targeting Mexican politicians and sometimes
influencing elections. Armed groups have killed at least 11
standing mayors this year and drug-related deaths are on pace to
reach their highest level this year since President  Felipe Calderon  took office in December 2006. Some 7,700 Mexicans were
killed in the first half of 2010, up from 6,350 in the same
period of 2009, according to a report published by the
government in August.  Candidate Killed  The leading candidate for governor in the Mexican border
state of Tamaulipas,  Rodolfo Torre , was gunned down in June,
less than a week before an election that polls showed he was
favored to win.  At least 28,000 people have been killed in organized crime-
related violence during Calderon’s administration.  Former Governor Cavazos was “definitely” the gunmen’s
target, the attorney general said. The state’s economic
promotion minister was with Cavazos at the time of the shooting,
he added.  Investigators have ruled out the possibility that Cavazos
had a link to drug trafficking groups, according to Diaz Rivera.  Cavazos, of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, served
as governor of the state from 2005 to 2009. He took over the
post after Gustavo Vazquez died in a plane crash.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan J. Levin  in Mexico City at 
 Jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
 Adriana Lopez Caraveo  in Mexico City at 
 adrianalopez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  