-- Fight Over Fair Value in Global Finance Making Volcker Rue FASB Dissonance
-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 2010-11-22T00:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/fight-over-fair-value-in-global-finance-making-volcker-rue-fasb-dissonance.html
A dispute between U.S. and
international accounting groups about how to value  financial
instruments  is threatening to derail efforts to converge global
standards, affecting how trillions of dollars of assets are
marked on bank balance sheets.  The debate pits the U.S. Financial Accounting Standards
Board, which wants to expand the use of fair-value accounting to
all financial assets, including loans and deposits, against the
London-based International Accounting Standards Board, which
opposes such a wide usage. The outcome also will determine how
much capital banks have to hold to meet new rules.  FASB’s proposal, announced in May, could cause 26 of the
largest U.S. banks to write down the value of about $4 trillion
of loans on their books by as much as $138 billion, estimated
 Jason Goldberg , an analyst at Barclays Plc. Lenders, regulators
and some investors have taken IASB’s side, leaving the U.S.
standard-setter isolated in its battle.  “Treatment of financial instruments has been the sticking
point, and there’s a lot of political pressure on all sides on
that,” said  Paul A. Volcker , a former chairman of the Federal
Reserve who first introduced the idea of accounting convergence
as head of the group that oversees IASB. “When you have global
corporations operating around the world, and analysts looking at
them from around the world, you want one accounting standard.”  Harmonizing Systems  Harmonizing the two systems would enable investors and
regulators to better compare lenders on both sides of the
Atlantic. Differences over fair-value accounting, which requires
companies to mark assets to market value, can skew calculations
of banks’ risk-weighted assets and equity, the numerator and
denominator of the capital-ratio equation agreed to by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision in September, regulators and
analysts say. A U.S. bank and a European bank with identical
loans could end up with different capital ratios.  Members of the two accounting bodies have held monthly,
sometimes weekly  meetings  since 2006, when they agreed to work
toward convergence. Most disagreements, including those about
the netting of derivatives and rules governing what companies
have to consolidate on their balance sheets, are close to being
resolved, according to people with knowledge of the discussions.  While the rules affect all publicly traded companies that
use Generally Accepted Accounting Principles known as U.S. GAAP,
the valuing of financial instruments affects banks the most.  “The biggest concern for U.S. banks is the proposed use of
fair value in accounting,” said  Michael Gullette , a vice
president at the Washington-based American Bankers Association,
the industry’s largest lobbying group. “For banks, once you
remove the financial instruments, there are hardly any other
hurdles to accounting convergence.”  FASB Revision  FASB’s planned revision, which the board estimates will be
implemented in 2013, would force lenders to mark deposits and
loans to market values as they already do for traded securities.
Not all changes in the values of assets and liabilities would
affect net income, since some fair-value adjustments can be
recorded in what’s called “other comprehensive income,” a
balance-sheet item added or deducted from equity.  IASB  guidelines , which are scheduled to go into effect in
2013, allow companies and banks to keep financial assets on
their books at their original value as long as they’re held for
the long term. The international accounting body published its
revised rules on financial instruments a year ago and made some
adjustments this year.  Middle Ground  While the international board says it has no plans to re-
open discussion of fair-value accounting -- some countries have
already started following the new guideline -- the two
organizations might move toward a middle ground, according to
three people with knowledge of the matter. Two of the people
said FASB is considering a revision that would allow loans held
to maturity to be kept on banks’ books at their original price.  Neal E. McGarity , a spokesman for FASB, said “due process
would result in the best accounting standards.”  Even if there isn’t convergence, the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission may approve the use of IASB’s International
Financial Reporting Standards, known as IFRS.  The  SEC  has said it will decide by the end of next year
whether to allow U.S. firms to follow international standards
for financial reporting. The decision will depend, in part, on
whether the agency is satisfied with the independence of IASB,
which is funded by voluntary contributions from the 122
countries that use its standards. FASB is financed by mandatory
fees collected from all public companies in the U.S.  SEC Evaluation  “Governance and funding of IASB are crucial factors in
whether we adopt IFRS,” said  James Kroeker , SEC’s chief
accountant, in an Oct. 28 speech in New York. “We have an
independent accounting body in the U.S., but can the IASB stay
independent as well?”  James Kaiser, a partner at accounting firm
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP who follows the convergence talks for
the firm, said it’s “very possible” the SEC would give U.S.
companies the option of using international rules.  “The G-20 has made it clear it wants a single standard,”
Kaiser said.  Leaders of the Group of 20 nations reiterated their call
for a “single set of improved high quality global accounting
standards” at a summit in Seoul this month and urged the two
groups to complete their convergence talks next year.  ABA Letter  In an August letter to FASB opposing the proposed expansion
of fair-value accounting, the  American Bankers Association  said
the latest financial crisis showed that market values for some
assets became unreliable, exacerbating losses for banks.  “This appears to fly directly in the face of the desires
of virtually all constituents of financial statements:
knowledgeable users of bank financial statements -- including
investors -- who do not want it, banking managers who do not use
it to manage their businesses, and regulators who believe it is
dangerous,” the group wrote.  The five U.S. banking regulators sent a joint letter to
FASB in September voicing  opposition  as well.  “We are concerned about the potential implications of the
proposal for financial intermediation and stability and,
therefore, we oppose the proposed requirement to report
substantially all of a financial institution’s financial
instruments at fair value,” the Fed, the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. and three other regulators said.  Volcker’s View  Volcker who was Fed chairman in the 1980s and now advises
U.S. President  Barack Obama , said he favors IASB’s approach on
valuing financial instruments.  “You can’t have everything at fair value,” Volcker, 83,
said. “I’m not in favor of fair valuing bank loans because we
don’t know their fair value anyway. It’s not consistent with the
basic business model of commercial banks.”  FASB, whose origins as an organization that sets accounting
standards for U.S. companies date back to 1930, has been
susceptible to political pressure. After congressional hearings
last year at which the board’s chairman,  Robert Herz , was
grilled about how fair-value accounting harmed banks, FASB
relaxed its rules to allow lenders to keep some losses on the
declining value of assets off their income statements.  Herz announced his retirement as chairman of FASB in August
after eight years. Board member  Leslie Seidman  is acting
chairman of the Norwalk, Connecticut-based organization.  Pushing for Convergence  In a similar episode, a few months earlier, IASB bowed to
European Union demands to relax its fair-value rules, letting
banks move some assets to a different part of the balance sheet
so they wouldn’t have to be marked to market values.  “I’m concerned about both bodies’ independence,” said
 Jeff Mahoney , general counsel for the Council of Institutional
Investors in Washington and a member of a FASB advisory board.
“I criticized FASB when it changed the fair-value standard last
year, rushing through hearings on the matter. But at least they
had a process. The IASB did it without a due process, without
giving stakeholders a chance to object.”  IASB Chairman  David Tweedie , 66, who has been pushing for
convergence, said on Oct. 28 in New York that his group hasn’t
bowed to multiple efforts by the EU to influence its decisions.  “We don’t listen to Europe,” Tweedie said. “We don’t
want Europe to run us.”  IASB was set up in 1973 as a  part-time committee  to come up
with an international accounting system. The board is modeled
after its U.S. counterpart, which helped establish it. The
committee became a full-time organization in 2001. Its 15
members include four from the U.S. SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro 
sits on the group’s monitoring board, which carries out the
equivalent of SEC’s oversight role for FASB.  GAAP, IFRS  The EU required public companies in member countries to
adopt international accounting standards by 2005. Until 2008,
European firms that had shares listed in the U.S. had to
reconcile their IFRS accounting with U.S. GAAP.  Deutsche Bank AG ,
Germany’s largest lender, used to have a balance sheet under the
U.S. regime half the size of what it reported under IFRS.  Bank regulators have created their own accounting rules in
some areas to avoid confusion. Last year the Basel committee
came up with its own definition of how to net derivatives
contracts while calculating the leverage ratio to avoid
different ways of counting assets. The ratio, which takes into
account all assets without any adjustments for risk, caps how
much banks can borrow.  Now U.S. regulators have to decide whether to use the
existing U.S. leverage ratio -- 5 percent of assets calculated
according to U.S. GAAP -- or the new Basel ratio of 3 percent,
which counts assets its own way.  ‘You’re Nuts’  In a June survey of institutional investors carried out by
PwC, a majority of respondents said they favored original cost
accounting for loans held for the long term, backing the IASB
model. A September survey of investors by CFA Institute, an
international association of financial analysts, found the
opposite: 71 percent of its 1,100 participants said they favor
fair-value accounting for loans.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the most profitable U.S.
securities firm, has said that banks hide losses on loans used
to generate investment-banking fees. In a Sept. 1 letter to FASB,
Goldman Sachs described how banks lend at below-market rates to
win equity and debt-underwriting deals, a practice known as
“lend to play.” Goldman Sachs executives have argued that the
firm’s practice of marking assets to market value helped it
prepare for the credit contraction earlier than rivals.  For Volcker, the setbacks and sticking points are
overshadowed by how far the convergence of standards has come.  “If you asked this question in the U.S. 15 years ago, the
standard answer would be: ‘You’re nuts -- the U.S. has the best
accounting standards, and everybody should follow ours,’”
Volcker said. “Today that’s not a credible answer.
Unfortunately, some accountants still think that way. It’s pride
and history.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yalman Onaran  in New York at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 