-- Flaherty Says `Determined' to Erase Canada Budget Deficit, Shield Recovery
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2010-11-22T19:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/flaherty-says-determined-to-erase-canada-budget-deficit-shield-recovery.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said he’ll seek to balance the budget through spending
restraint, and warned that calls from opposition lawmakers for
new spending programs and tax increases would jeopardize the
economic recovery.  In his first speech since starting public consultations on
his 2011 fiscal plan, Flaherty said he will cut wasteful
spending and press ahead with corporate tax cuts to create new
jobs.  “We will not make significant new government spending
commitments this year that would trigger bigger deficits and
higher taxes,” said Flaherty, whose governing Conservative
Party lacks  a majority  and needs opposition support to pass
legislation. “We simply cannot afford to risk the economic
recovery.”  Flaherty is seeking to make Canada the first country in the
Group of Seven to  balance its budget  by 2015, even as he cuts
corporate income taxes and faces a weak global recovery that
threatens to slow revenue. Opposition lawmakers, who will have
an opportunity to defeat the fiscal plan when it’s introduced in
the legislature, have warned the government is being fiscally
reckless by lowering business taxes.  Spending Restraint  Flaherty said in September he will rely on higher
employment insurance premiums, coupled with restraint in defense
and operating spending and expiring stimulus measures, to help
the country lower its deficit.  The government has scheduled a 1.5 percentage-point
reduction in the corporate tax rate on Jan. 1 to 16.5 percent,
and a further cut to 15 percent in 2012. The main opposition
Liberal Party has said it would cancel the reduction, in part to
finance spending for a home-care program.  Canadian governments typically release budgets before the
start of the fiscal year, which begins April 1.  “The opposition’s approach would be to add extravagant new
spending to the deficit and raise taxes to pay for it,”
Flaherty said in his speech to the Oakville Chamber of Commerce.
“We choose a different approach.”  Flaherty said his next budget will maintain focus on
strengthening the economy and creating jobs, and called on
lawmakers to make suggestions for investments that are
“prudent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Colin McClelland  in Oakville, Ontario at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net ;
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  