-- Flying Carpet, Biking Skeleton Bring Science to Kids in Warsaw
-- B y   N a t h a n i e l   E s p i n o
-- 2010-11-22T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/flying-carpet-biking-bones-join-131-million-warsaw-show-to-boost-science.html
A human-sized hamster wheel, a
flying carpet, solar-powered model airplanes and a skeleton
riding a bicycle are inspiring budding scientists in Poland.  The exhibits are among hundreds in Warsaw’s 437 million-
zloty ($131 million)  Copernicus Science Centre , whose opening
this month featured a  Peter Greenaway  multimedia show, “Big
Bang.”  The science center breaks with Poland’s communist-era
tradition of objects kept out of reach behind glass. It follows
institutions such as the six-year-old  Warsaw Uprising Museum ,
and an  underground space  in the ruins beneath Krakow’s medieval
market square that opened this year.  “In museums there’s this distance, we’re kept back by
cases, by ropes, and ‘don’t touch’ signs are quite common,”
Piotr Kossobudzki, the center’s deputy director, said in an
interview. “In a science center you do experiments, you engage
your hands, your head, your whole body, while museums are more
for looking at things.”  Like Florence’s  Museo Galileo  and San Francisco’s
 Exploratorium  -- one of its sources of inspiration -- the
building encourages laboratory-style interaction and demystifies
the scientific principles behind everyday life.  Parents and children lined up in mist and drizzle for as
long as two hours for the opening. Michal Jaroszczyk, a 16-year-
old high-school student, traveled from Kielce, 180 kilometers
(110 miles) south of Warsaw.  “It’s something completely new,” said Jaroszczyk, who’s
interested in physics and information technology. “Here you can
touch things, see with your own eyes how things work. The
presentation is totally different from how it is in textbooks.”  Moving Bones  Themed sections include “Humans and the Environment,”
where visitors who pedal a stationary bicycle see a projection
of how their bones are moving. “On the Move” has the giant
wheel, and the flying carpet -- a one-person hovercraft.  “It’s a wonderful way of developing the imagination,”
said Barbara Starosielec, a former Polish teacher who now runs
her own business. “It awakens your thinking, makes you look at
science as something that’s not boring -- something that’s
fascinating, not an obligation for school.” The hovercraft was
a highlight for her seven-year-old daughter Wiktoria.  Other institutions in central Europe are emphasizing
interaction. Estonia’s  Ahhaa Science Center  will open a new
building in Tartu in 2011. Prague’s  Dox Centre for Contemporary
Art  offers a board game for children, and Budapest’s Natural
History Museum, using the slogan “See With Your Hands!”
features a maze that child visitors navigate by solving tasks.  Following Nicolaus  In addition to training Jaroszczyk and other Poles who want
to follow in the footsteps of its namesake, 16th-century
astronomer  Nicolaus Copernicus , the center has English-language
labeling that makes it accessible to international visitors.  A planetarium and a rooftop garden will open next year at
the center, which is part of a revitalization drive in Warsaw’s
riverside Powisle district.  The center shows a trend in Polish higher education, which
is taking advantage of EU funding to build new facilities,
Konrad Banaszek, a professor of physics at Warsaw University,
said by telephone.  Kossobudzki, a biologist by training, said he realized that
explaining science to others was “a lot more fun” than doing
experiments himself.  “The biggest thrill for all of us who work here is when we
see that ‘Aha!’ effect, that wonder, that discovery.”  Copernicus Science Centre, Wybrzeze Kosciuszkowskie 20, 00-
390 Warsaw. Information:  http://www.kopernik.org.pl  or
+48-22-596-4110.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nathaniel Espino  in Warsaw 
 nespino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Beech   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 