-- For-Profit Colleges May Lose Student Aid From U.S. Over Recruiting Abuses
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2010-11-22T15:35:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/for-profit-colleges-may-lose-access-to-u-s-aid-over-violations.html
For-profit colleges that pay
recruiters on the basis of the number of students they sign up
may lose access to U.S. government student aid, which provided
the colleges with $26.5 billion last year and can account for as
much as 90 percent of company revenue.  The Department of Education, seeking to strengthen
oversight of the for-profit college sector, is considering
boosting fines and disqualifying colleges from participating in
federal-aid programs when they give bonuses to admissions
officers for enrolling more students, said  James Kvaal , deputy
undersecretary of education, in a telephone interview. For-
profit colleges got about 23 percent of all federal student
grants and loans that went to U.S. universities in 2008-2009,
according to the U.S.  Government Accountability Office , while
educating about 12 percent of all students.  The Education Department plans, in July, to make incentive
compensation for recruiters illegal, removing 12 types of
exemptions, or “safe harbors,” that were put into place in
2002 under President  George W. Bush . At that time, the
department’s enforcement power was reduced to levying fines,
Kvaal said. Revoking aid eligibility would be used rarely to
punish widespread violations, Kvaal said.  “We take our responsibility to prevent these abuses very
seriously,” Kvaal said. “We’re going to look at what tools we
need to make sure the law is being followed.”  Apollo Shares  For-profit colleges have come under growing scrutiny as
Secretary  Arne Duncan  prepares tighter industry regulations and
Senate and House committees examine how for-profit colleges
mislead applicants, target veterans and register student default
rates that are at least double those of traditional
universities. Republicans are raising objections to tougher
regulations as they prepare to take control of the House of
Representatives in January.  Phoenix-based Apollo Group Inc., which operates the
University of Phoenix, fell 21 cents, or less than a percent, to
$35.15 at 10:22 a.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market
composite trading. The shares had declined 36 percent in the 12
months through Nov. 19. An index of 13 education companies fell
less than a percent.  Republican Senators  Richard Burr  and  Tom Coburn  on Nov. 17
called for an investigation of government disclosure of proposed
regulations restricting federal aid to Apollo, Education
Management Corp. and other for-profit colleges.  ‘Gainful Employment’  The senators said they were concerned that the Education
Department may have leaked the proposed regulations, known as
“gainful employment,” to supporters of the rules and investors
who stood to benefit, according to a letter to the agency’s
Office of the Inspector General. The proposed rules, which would
tie eligibility for student aid to loan repayment rates by for-
profit college graduates, contributed to the decline in
education company stocks.  The Education Department gave the rules under embargo to
reporters, who then contacted sources for comment after the
close of normal market trading, Justin Hamilton, a department
spokesman, said Nov. 18. The department operated with
“transparency and integrity,” he said.  Wyoming Senator  Mike Enzi , the highest-ranking Republican
on the education committee, said in a Sept. 30 hearing that Iowa
Democratic Senator  Tom Harkin , who has held three hearings on
for-profit college abuses, was “beating up” on for-profit
colleges.  The Education Department has never made a college
ineligible for financial aid programs for incentive-compensation
violations and stopped considering the penalty in 2002 under the
Bush administration. Kvaal declined to say when officials will
decide whether to restore the enforcement measure.  No Comment  Harris Miller , president of the Washington-based
Association of Private Sector Colleges & Universities, which
represents the industry, declined to comment.  For-profit colleges are permitted to get as much as 90
percent of their revenue from U.S. student grants and loans.
 Apollo’s  University of Phoenix, the biggest U.S. for-profit
college with an enrollment of about 470,000, got 88 percent of
its revenue from such aid in fiscal 2010, the company said Oct.
13.  On Aug. 4, the  GAO,  the investigational arm of Congress,
released the results of an undercover probe in which
investigators taped Apollo’s University of Phoenix recruiters
making misleading statements to “mystery shopper” agents.
Recruiters from Pittsburgh-based Education Management Corp. and
Washington Post Co.’s Kaplan education unit were also taped
making misleading statements to GAO investigators.  Whistleblower Lawsuit  Last year, Apollo agreed to pay $78.5 million to settle a
whistleblower lawsuit charging recruiters received incentive
compensation at the University of Phoenix. Apollo eliminated
enrollment targets from its recruiters’ payment terms as of
Sept. 1, said Manny Rivera, a company spokesman, in an e-mail.  The Education Department has hired 60 investigators in its
 Federal Student Aid office  and plans to increase the number of
annual program reviews at institutions by 50 percent, to 300,
over the next two years, Kvaal said. Both Apollo and DeVry Inc.,
the Downers Grove, Illinois-based parent company of DeVry
University, will undergo program reviews beginning in December,
the companies have said.  Incentive compensation was banned by the Education
Department from 1992 until 2002, when the George W. Bush
administration created safe harbors. The exceptions allowed the
practice when recruiters weren’t paid solely on the basis of
enrollments.  Fines Urged  The same year, William Hansen, then undersecretary of
education, issued a memo advising that violators of the ban be
punished with fines, rather than the suspension or loss of
student-aid eligibility.  In most cases, “the appropriate sanction to consider will
be the imposition of a fine,” Hansen said in the memo, dated
Oct. 20, 2002, and addressed to Terri Shaw, then the chief
operating officer of the department’s Federal Student Aid
branch. Hansen, president of Eagan, Minnesota-based  Scantron
Corp ., which collects data on student performance, declined to
comment.  The Education Department’s restoration of the full ban on
incentive pay is part of a package of rules published Oct. 28
that will establish guidelines for course credits and require
schools to notify the government of new job-training classes.
The package affects both for-profit and nonprofit universities.  Iowa’s Harkin has held three hearings on for-profit
colleges and is planning a fourth for early 2011. The hearings
have investigated the colleges’ recruitment practices, student
achievement and use of government funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Lauerman  in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 