-- Forint to Rally as Hungary Converts Pension Fund Assets, KBC, Barclays Say
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2010-11-22T08:59:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/forint-to-rally-as-hungary-converts-pension-fund-assets-kbc-barclays-say.html
Hungary’s forint, the worst
performing emerging-market currency in the past year, will
probably rally in 2011 as the government seeks to use private
pension fund assets to plug its budget shortfall, according to
KBC Groep NV, Barclays Capital and UniCredit SpA.  The currency, which has tumbled 10 percent against the
dollar and 2.3 percent versus the euro from a year ago as of
Nov. 19, may strengthen as much as 5 percent against the euro in
2011 if the government converts the funds’ foreign holdings into
local currency and domestic bonds, said  Gyorgy Barcza , an
economist at KBC in Budapest.  “They’ve got potentially $3 billion they can convert
back,”  Koon Chow , a strategist at Barclays in London, said by
phone. “It would be a currency-positive effect.”  Hungary, the first European Union nation to receive an
international bailout during the global credit crisis in 2008,
plans to cut its  budget deficit  to less than 3 percent of
economic output next year to meet EU requirements.  The forint gained the most among emerging market currencies
today, rising 0.8 percent versus the dollar and 0.3 percent to
273.27 per euro at 9:45 a.m. in Budapest. The forint has gained
5.2 percent against the euro since the government on Sept. 8
committed to the budget target, the best performance among more
than 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Hungary started shifting employee contributions to private
pensions into the budget last month to help cover current
payments to retirees.  Transfer Savings  The government is also encouraging private pension fund
members to transfer savings to the state system. Private funds
are “speculators” that risk invested assets and overcharge
clients,  Peter Szijjarto , Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s
spokesman, said on Nov. 14, according to the MTI news service.  Dismantling the private-pension system may create a bigger
budget hole later, said Chow at Barclays Nov. 5.  Hungary is following the example of Argentina, which in
2001 confiscated about $3.2 billion of retirement savings just
before it stopped servicing its debt. The government
nationalized the $24 billion industry two years ago to
compensate for falling tax revenue, reeling from a 2005 debt
restructuring.  Bulgaria last month said it will transfer nine private
funds with 100 million lev ($70 million) of assets to state
control. Poland is “not at the stage of considering the
suspension of these payments,” Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski 
said on Nov. 17.  3 Trillion Forint  Hungarian private-pension fund assets total 3 trillion
forint ($14.5 billion), according to  Stabilitas
Penztarszovetseg , an industry group that represents funds
including Munich-based Allianz SE, Europe’s biggest insurer,
Vienna-based Erste Group Bank AG, eastern Europe’s second
biggest lender, and OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest bank.  Foreign assets make up 20 percent of portfolios, according
to Barclays’ estimates. Converting the assets in one wave may
lift the currency as much as 10 forint against the euro,  Gyula Toth , a currency strategist at UniCredit in Vienna, said in a
Nov. 9 e-mail.  Toth estimated the pension funds’ foreign assets at about
800 billion forint, which he said the state would probably use
to cut its debt by buying back government bonds.  The government drafted the 2011 budget with a plan to draw
530 billion forint worth of assets from the pension funds, which
will narrow the budget deficit,  Gyorgy Naszvadi , a state
secretary in the Economy Ministry, told reporters Nov 9. The
government predicts that at least 40 percent of portfolios will
return next year, he said.  Forint Demand  Converting foreign-equity proceeds on the market may create
extra forint demand of about 500 million euros ($682 million),
equivalent to Hungary’s monthly  foreign-trade surplus,  KBC’s
Barcza said. Budget holes may force the government to sell the
assets “in the next few months,” said  Nigel Rendell , senior
strategist at RBC Capital in London.  The effect may be delayed by fund members waiting until
near the deadline at the end of next year to change to the state
system, said  David Nemeth , a senior economist at ING Groep NV in
Budapest. Once the funds start flowing, the impact on the forint
might last as long as a year, he said.  The government may not sell euros from the share proceeds
on the market at all, according to  Gyorgy Cselenyi , head of
interest-rate trading at BNP Paribas SA in Budapest. Hungary
will need foreign currency to pay back maturing debt, he said.  Hungary, the EU’s most-indebted eastern member, has 4.3
billion euros of foreign-currency debt with maturities of more
than one year due for repayment in 2011, according to data
posted on the central bank’s  website . The amount due will rise
each year through 2014, when it will reach 6.4 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andras Gergely  in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  