-- Barney Frank Defends Fed, `Appalled' By Republican Criticism
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-11-23T00:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/frank-defends-bernanke-appalled-by-republican-criticism-of-fed-chairman.html
Barney Frank , chairman of the House
Financial Services Committee, said he’s “appalled” by
Republicans who he said have sided with some foreign central
banks in criticizing Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  “I was appalled to see a group of Republican economists
from the Bush and Reagan administration” arguing against the
Fed’s asset-purchase program. “Republicans are joining the
central bank of China in attacking Bernanke. This is really
distressing to me.”  Frank, who spoke in an interview today on Bloomberg
Television’s “In Business with Margaret Brennan,” called the
Fed program to purchase $600 billion in assets through June “a
very reasonable thing” that isn’t fueling inflation, as
Republican critics contend.  A group of 23, including former Republican government
officials and economists, published a letter to Bernanke urging
him to halt the expansion of monetary stimulus because it risks
an inflation surge. Separately,  John Boehner , nominated to be
the next House speaker, and three other Republicans leaders last
week sent Bernanke a letter expressing “deep concerns” about a
policy they said risked weakening the dollar and fueling asset
bubbles.  Experience Talks  The view of the 23, none of whom have run a central bank,
contrasted with the support Bernanke’s efforts have received
from those who have helped manage monetary policy. Bank of
Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer , former Bank of England policy
maker  David Blanchflower  and former Fed Vice Chairman  Alan Blinder  have all voiced support.  The Fed on Nov. 3 said it was expanding record stimulus to
try to reduce 9.6 percent unemployment and keep the inflation
rate from dropping further. China, Brazil, South Africa and
Germany have said the injection of cash into the system may
weaken the U.S. dollar.  People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said Nov. 5
that while quantitative easing in the U.S. is understandable
because of domestic economic conditions, the policy may not be
good for the world. Conflicts between the dollar’s role at home
and abroad could raise challenges to the viability of the
international monetary system, Zhou said at a forum in Beijing.  Frank said that in the absence of additional fiscal
measures, the Fed’s asset purchases are an appropriate response.  “I wish we had some more fiscal stimulus,” said Frank, a
Massachusetts Democrat. “In the absence of that, given
unemployment, given the complete absence of inflation, he is
doing a very reasonable thing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net 
 Margaret Brennan  in New York at 
 mbrennan25@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  