-- Irish Bonds Jump as Government Requests EU-IMF Bailout; Portugal Rallies
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2010-11-22T17:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/german-government-bond-yields-near-highest-in-about-four-months-on-ireland.html
Irish bonds climbed after the
nation’s government requested financial aid from the European
Union and International Monetary Fund. Greek and Spanish debt
fell.  German bonds rose as Moody’s Investors Service said it
would likely downgrade Ireland’s credit rating by several levels
and the Irish Green Party said it would quit the government
after the next budget and seek a new election. Ireland becomes
the second euro nation to seek a rescue after Greece. The nation
will pass some of the money to its banks, with the rest helping
the government avoid having to sell bonds, Finance Minister
 Brian Lenihan  told reporters late yesterday.  “An aid package is good for Irish debt, but it was very
well flagged,” said  Charles Diebel , head of market strategy at
Lloyds TSB Corporate Markets in London. “As details emerge, it
should add to the relief rally.”  The yield on Irish 10-year bonds fell five basis points to
8.3 percent at 4:54 p.m. in London. The 5 percent security due
October 2020 climbed 0.265, or 2.65 euros per 1,000-euro
($1,374) face amount, to 78.28. The bund yield was six basis
points lower at 2.64 percent.  The difference in yield, or  spread , between German and
Irish 10-year bonds widened three basis points, or 0.3
percentage point, to 545 basis points, according to Bloomberg
generic data.  The  Europe Stoxx 600 Index  of equities fell 0.7 percent,
while the euro slipped 0.5 percent to $1.3611 after earlier
reaching $1.3786.  Goldman Estimate  The bailout may total 95 billion euros, according to
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Ireland needs 65 billion euros to fund
itself for the next three years and 30 billion euros for the
banks, Goldman Chief European Economist  Erik Nielsen  said.  Irish 10-year bonds rose last week for the first time since
the five days ending Oct. 15 as EU and IMF staff arrived in
Dublin to inspect the nation’s banks and begin talks. Irish
officials said as recently as Nov. 15 they didn’t need aid.  While Ireland is fully funded until the middle of next
year, the  yield  on Irish 10-year bonds soared to a record 652
basis points above bunds on Nov. 11.  Other peripheral bonds were mixed. Portuguese bonds
advanced, with the 10-year yield declining 14 basis points to
6.82 percent. Greek 10-year yields rose 22 basis points to 11.97
percent, while Spanish 10-year yields climbed one basis point to
4.75 percent. U.S. 10-year Treasury yields dropped four basis
points to 2.83 percent.  ‘Rating Pressure’  “While we should expect some tightening correction, the
periphery is not yet out of the woods,”  Moyeen Islam , a fixed-
income strategist at Barclays Capital in London. “The form of
any bank recapitalization is also not consequence-free, as any
gains from investment might not be seen until the medium term
and may well put the sovereign rating under further pressure.”  The aid package will “crystallize more bank-contingent
liabilities on the government balance sheet, and increase the
Irish sovereign’s debt burden,” Moody’s senior credit officer
 Dietmar Hornung  said in an e-mailed note today.  Increases in state debt “being discussed exceed the
expectation we had in October when we put Ireland’s Aa2 rating
on review for downgrade,” he said. “A multi-notch downgrade,
leaving the rating of the Republic still within the investment-
grade category, is now the most likely outcome of our review of
the sovereign credit.”  Ireland has a stable outlook at Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings.  ECB Buying  The ECB bought Irish government bonds today, according to
three people with knowledge of the transactions. The central
bank bought Irish debt maturing in five years, one of the
traders said, declining to be identified because the deals are
confidential. A spokeswoman for the ECB in Frankfurt declined to
comment.  Today’s bond-price moves compare with a 1.1 percentage
point downward surge in the Irish 10-year yield on May 10, when
the 750-billion-euro European Financial Stability Facility was
created. Greek 10-year yields plunged 4.68 percentage points
that day.  Irish government bonds have lost investors 12 percent this
year, compared with a 9.1 percent decline on investments in
Portuguese bonds, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  Credit-Default Swaps  German securities returned 6.9 percent, French debt 6.5
percent and U.S. Treasuries earned 7.4 percent in the period,
the indexes showed. Greek bonds lost 19 percent.  The cost of insuring against losses on Portuguese
government bonds climbed the most in almost two months as
traders look past the bailout of Ireland to which country will
be next to require assistance.  Credit-default swaps tied to Portuguese debt jumped 40
basis points to a one-week high of 460 basis points, the biggest
increase since June 1, according to data provider CMA. The
contracts, which reached a record close of 478 basis points on
Nov. 11, have widened about 118 basis points in the past month.
Irish swaps jumped 22 basis points to 525.5.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  