-- Glencore, Xstrata Eye Drummond’s Colombian Coal Assets, FT Says
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2010-11-23T01:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/glencore-xstrata-eye-drummond-s-colombian-coal-assets-ft-says.html
Glencore International AG and
 Xstrata Plc  lead the list of possible buyers of Drummond Co.’s
Colombian coal assets, the Financial Times reported, citing
unidentified people familiar with the talks.  The assets may fetch $6 billion to $8 billion and second-
round bids are due shortly, the FT said. Some of those
interested, including Vale SA, have decided not to proceed with
the second round of bidding, according to the report.  A “mad dash” for coal assets will drive deals as
steelmakers, producers and utilities seek to secure supplies,
according to UBS AG. Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services kept
closely held Drummond’s BB- rating on Creditwatch last month,
citing press reports that suggested the company was studying a
sale of its Colombian operation.  Zug, Switzerland-based Xstrata, the world’s biggest
exporter of thermal coal, and Glencore, based in Baar, also in
Switzerland, own coal operations in Colombia. Drummond will
produce 24 million metric tons of coal this year at its
Colombian unit, the company said July 30.  A call out of office hours to Drummond’s headquarters in
Birmingham, Alabama wasn’t returned. Xstrata’s coal division
Spokesman  James Rickards  couldn’t be reached for comment when
contacted on his mobile phone. A call out of office hours to
Glencore spokesman  Marc Ocskay  wasn’t answered.  BHP, Anglo  Glencore, Xstrata’s largest shareholder with about 34
percent, owns the Prodeco operation in Colombia that produces 17
million tons of steaming coal annually, according to its website.
 Xstrata  owns one-third of the El Cerrejon thermal coal mine
together with BHP Billiton Ltd. and Anglo American Plc. The
operation produces about 28 million tons a year.  Producers are seeking to add to their asset base as demand
for the fuel rises. Coal prices are expected to gain until 2012,
according to a forecast from Deutsche Bank AG.  Coal India Ltd. has bid for the Drummond assets, the Press
Trust of India reported Nov. 9, citing people it didn’t identify.
BHP, Peabody Energy Corp. and Rio Tinto Group may be potential
bidders, the Independent reported Sept. 12.  Drummond hired Bank of America Corp. to evaluate possible
partners for projects including the expansion of annual capacity
at its El Descanso coal mine to 25 million tons within three
years from 3 million tons now, the company said in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Elisabeth Behrmann  in
Sydney at   ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Andrew Hobbs
at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  