-- British Airways Recruits Go-Ahead's Nick Swift as Chief Financial Officer
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-11-22T10:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/go-ahead-s-swfit-to-join-british-airways-as-finance-chief-starting-march.html
British Airways Plc , which plans to
complete its merger with Iberia Lineas Aereas de Espana SA of
Spain early next year, hired  Nick Swift  as chief financial
officer from U.K. bus and rail operator Go-Ahead Group Plc.  Swift, 46, will become CFO on March 7, replacing  Keith Williams , who will take over as chief executive officer after
the Iberia merger, when current CEO  Willie Walsh  becomes chief
of new holding company International Consolidated Airlines.  “It’s great to be getting back into aviation,” Swift, who
was financial-reporting manager at Air New Zealand between 1992
and 1995, said in an interview. “It’s a global business and BA
has a terrific reputation.” The executive said it’s too early to
comment on the challenges he will face in the new role.  Go-Ahead CEO  Keith Ludeman  said in a statement that he
understood Swift couldn’t spurn the opportunity to return to
aviation. Swift said he would have “definitely stayed longer” at
Go-Ahead if the British Airways role hadn’t presented itself.  Go-Ahead said on Oct. 26 that Ludeman would stand down as
CEO on July 4 to be replaced by David Brown, managing director
for surface transport at Transport for London, the state-owned
authority that runs buses and subway trains in the U.K. capital.
Brown will initially join as deputy chief executive on April 1.  Swift, finance director at Go-Ahead since July 2007, will
remain with the Newcastle upon Tyne, England-based company until
March to ensure an orderly transition and complete financial
reporting for the fiscal first half, Go-Ahead said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  