-- Gome Denies Misleading Investors About Effects of Jailing of Founder Huang
-- B y   W e n d y   L e u n g   a n d   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2010-11-23T10:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/gome-denies-misleading-investors-about-effects-of-jailing-of-founder-huang.html
Gome Electrical Appliances Holding
Ltd. , China’s second-biggest electronics retailer, disputed an
assertion by  David Webb , publisher of Webb-site.com, that it
misled investors about the effect of its founder’s imprisonment.  Webb compared a company statement on Dec. 10, 2008, that
“the business, operations and relationship with its suppliers
has remained normal” after the criminal conviction of  Huang Guangyu , with comments attributed to Gome Chairman  Chen Xiao  by
researcher Fathom China Ltd.  “The impact was huge but we couldn’t turn to society and
say that that was the impact,” Chen was quoted as saying in an
interview transcript included in Fathom China’s report.  Gome , in a statement e-mailed by public relations agency
Brunswick Group last night, said there was no contradiction
among the public statements, and that the Dec. 10, 2008, filing
was “correct” and “accurate.”  Webb called for an investigation by Hong Kong’s Securities
and Futures Commission.  Section 298  of the city’s Securities and
Futures Ordinance makes it an offense to authorize the release
of an untruthful statement. Webb referred to a  video recording 
of comments made by Gome executives which he said contradicted
the explanation offered.  Ernest Kong, the regulator’s spokesman, declined to comment
in a phone interview today.  Gome  dropped 4 percent to HK$2.92 in Hong Kong trading.  Credit Facilities  The company disclosed the crunch caused by the sudden
withdrawal of  credit  facilities in 2008 in letters distributed
in August 2010, and explained the matter in a presentation to
investors that month, according to the e-mail. Public filings
for 2008 and the first half of 2009 disclosed the decline in the
amount of credit available, Gome said.  Chen in August said Huang had brought the retailer close to
bankruptcy.  Webb cited a  video  prepared before a shareholders’ vote on
control of the company in September in which Chen, President
 Wang Junzhou , Director of Finance  Fang Wei  and vice presidents
 Ma Guixian  and  Sun Yiding  said that pressure from Huang’s
conviction was immediate and affected relationships with
suppliers, banks and employees.  “In what we believed to be a casual conversation with
someone who was writing a report on the company and industry, we
talked broadly and informally about a period two years ago,”
 Gome  said in its e-mailed statement, after being asked to
comment on the Fathom China report.  Managed Expectations  “It was more a matter of facing it ourselves, dealing with
it and solving it, trying to shrink the impact,” Chen said,
according to Fathom China’s transcript. “So at the time, we
said there wasn’t a big impact. I think anybody in that
situation would have said the same thing. If we’d said what was
really happening, it would have resulted in a bigger panic.”  Gao Qun,  Gome ’s director of corporate development, said the
company “managed market expectations to stabilize the
operations of the company,” according to the transcript.  “When we said ‘minimal impact’ back in 2009, that’s a
liquidity issue, and when we said there was an impact back in
May [2010], this is more addressed to our shareholders,” Gao
said, according to Fathom China.  Gome  said on Nov. 10 that it agreed to appoint Zou Xiaochun,
Huang’s corporate lawyer, and Huang Yanhong, Huang’s sister, to
its board to end a dispute with the founder, who owns the
company’s trademark and 400 Gome-branded stores privately. Huang
is serving a 14-year sentence on conviction for bribery, insider
trading and illegally buying foreign currency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Wendy Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 wleung12@bloomberg.net ;
 Debra Mao  in Hong Kong at   dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  