-- U.S. Governors Put `Everything' on Table for Cuts as Budget Deficits Loom
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s ,   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2010-11-22T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/governors-say-everything-is-on-the-table-in-face-of-deficits.html
U.S. governors say everything from
worker benefits to prisons to health-care spending may face
reductions as they contend with a fourth year of budget
deficits.  For five days last week, at the  Republican Governors
Association  meeting in San Diego and the nonpartisan  National
Governors Association  rookie orientation in Colorado Springs,
state leaders discussed a post-campaign reality in which they
must choose which pain to inflict on their constituents.  “Cutting is popular in the abstract,” said Governor-elect
 Dan Malloy  of  Connecticut , a 55-year-old Democrat, in an
interview at the Colorado event. “Cutting services is
unpopular. Everything is on the table.”  The longest recession since the 1930s caused the biggest
decline in state tax receipts on record,  according to  the
nonpartisan Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in
Washington. States have filled more than $425 billion in funding
gaps since fiscal 2009; the combined imbalance is likely to
reach $140 billion in the next budget year, the center said.
Meanwhile, 11 states had  jobless rates  of at least 10 percent in
September, when the national average was 9.6 percent.  The governors met last week as borrowing costs  surged ,
pushing yields on top-rated 10-year tax-exempt debt to their
highest level since June.  ‘Do Something’  Republicans and Democrats have been loath to suggest tax
increases. New York’s Democratic Governor-elect  Andrew Cuomo  has
said he won’t raise more revenue that way.  Maryland ’s
budget will be balanced entirely with cuts, Democratic Governor
 Martin O’Malley  said in Colorado.  “We have to make changes to shrink government,”  John Kasich , the incoming Republican governor of  Ohio , told a session
of the Republican Governors Association conference last week in
San Diego.  “You weren’t elected to get re-elected. You were elected
to do something,” said Kasich, a former Ohio congressman.  What to do is increasingly difficult, say former governors
and those about to take office. Colorado Democratic Governor-
elect  John Hickenlooper  said in an interview at the NGA
gathering that his transition team has already held 11 budget
meetings.  Tight Squeeze  Governors have little room to maneuver around the largest
spending items -- primary and secondary education, Medicaid and
prisons,  Jim Edgar , a former two-term Republican governor of
 Illinois , said in a telephone interview from Champaign.  “I think it’s going to be extremely difficult,” said
Edgar, who served from 1991 until 1999. “You’ve got to cut more
than waste. You’re going to have to cut good, worthwhile
programs.”  “You look at your options, but none of them are going to
be fun,” Edgar said. “It’s complicated and most people who
have not been governor don’t appreciate it. I think a lot of
them will wish they’d had a recount on the election.”  Complicating efforts to fill budget gaps is the end of
President Barack Obama’s $814 billion economic stimulus and the
potential expiration at year-end of the Build America Bond
program, which has allowed states and municipalities to borrow
$167 billion since 2009 with federal subsidies for interest
costs.  Maryland will face a $1.2 billion gap in next year’s
budget, said O’Malley.  Lean Years  “We’re going to be on a constant diet of deep and painful
cuts,” he said. The trick, he said, will be preserving the
state’s economic resiliency, he said.  “There are certain priorities that we must protect in
order to continue to come out of this recession,” he said.
O’Malley said he hoped to spare college affordability and tax
credits for research-job creation from the deepest reductions.  Areas that may be cut, he said, are corrections, employee
costs, pensions and Medicaid, the federal-state health-care
program for the poor.  In Colorado, agencies must be consolidated, education re-
examined and health-care costs lowered, said Hickenlooper, a
former geologist who opened Colorado’s first  brew pub .  “My predecessor has already gone through two years of
severe cuts,” he said.  At the Republican Governors Association meeting, Governors-
elect  Scott Walker  of  Wisconsin  and  Rick Snyder  of Michigan said
they wanted reductions in employee benefits. Governor-elect
 Brian Sandoval  of  Nevada  said tenure for public-school teachers
should be eliminated and merit pay implemented.  Embracing a Tax  Arizona Governor Jan Brewer, a Republican, said she won re-
election after supporting a sales-tax increase to 6.6 percent
from 5.6 percent that she said was opposed by many supporters.
The tax, intended to avert education budget cuts, was approved
in May and expires after three years.  “This is coming from a person who has never voted for a
tax increase in her life,” Brewer said in an interview in
Colorado Springs.  Edgar predicted campaign rhetoric will give way to budget
realities once the new governors take office.  “I think you’re going to have to see a combination of cuts
and tax increases in a lot of states. And you’re going to have a
see a multiyear solution,” Edgar said.  Governors are rethinking their states’ capabilities and
responsibilities, said Ray Scheppach, executive director of the
National Governors Association.  “We’re probably halfway through this adjustment but most
of what has been done so far is survival,” he said. “It’s been
a lot of terminations, furloughs, cuts and consolidation. The
next stage is how do you change the delivery system so you are
back on a longer-run, sustainable spending curve?”  For related news and information:  To contact the reporters on this story:  Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
David Mildenberg in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 