-- Guggenheim Pays Former Chief $1.8 Million, Triple Salary of Current Head
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a   a n d   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2010-11-22T03:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/guggenheim-pays-former-chief-1-8-million-triple-salary-of-current-head.html
The  Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum’s
Art Awards  on Dec. 8 will dispense prizes for artist of the year
and curator of the year but nothing for consulting gig of the
year.  If it did, the Guggenheim Foundation’s former director,
 Thomas Krens , would be a favorite to win.  On Friday, the foundation disclosed in its 2009 tax return
that it paid Krens’ company, Global Cultural Asset Management,
$816,295 last year for overseeing plans to build a Guggenheim in
Abu Dhabi. Krens also received a second and final $1 million
installment of a $2 million bonus and severance awarded when he
resigned as the Guggenheim Foundation director in 2008.  Richard Armstrong , current director of the Solomon R.
Guggenheim Foundation and Museum, received $612,550 in his first
full year in the post, according to the tax return.  Ken Berger , president of  Charity Navigator , which evaluates
non-profit organizations on efficiency and effectiveness, called
Krens’s payout the latest in a line of excessive packages in the
arts. He said it raises questions about whether the federal
government should deem the Guggenheim and other big-paying
cultural institutions non-profit organizations.  “The idea that we’re creating a class of millionaires at
public charities defies common sense,” he said. “This is the
hot button issue today. How can this be a charity?”  Previously head of the  Carnegie Museum of Art  in 
Pittsburgh, Armstrong took over in November 2008.  In addition to running the Guggenheim Foundation’s  Frank Lloyd Wright-designed  museum in Manhattan, he oversees
Guggenheim museums in Venice, Berlin and Bilbao, Spain, as well
as the developing Abu Dhabi site.  20 Years  Krens’s severance bonus was “in recognition of 20 years of
service and the successful completion of certain performance
goals,” the return said.  As for the consulting, “he was compensated as the senior
adviser for international affairs, developing and overseeing all
aspects of the Guggenheim Abu Dhabi,” said Betsy Ennis, a
Guggenheim spokeswoman.  In his 20-year tenure, Krens built overseas branches,
including the  Bilbao Guggenheim , and collaborated with Russia’s
State Hermitage Museum in Las Vegas. He also doubled the size of
the Peggy Guggenheim museum in Venice.  Some critics complained that he diluted the organization
with commercially driven exhibits and the international
expansion. In 2005, the foundation’s largest benefactor and
chairman,  Peter Lewis , chairman of auto insurer  Progressive
Corp. , resigned from the board, reportedly because he disagreed
with Krens’s strategy.  Few Candidates  Melissa Berman , president of  Rockefeller Philanthropy
Advisors , said seven-figure pay is often justified at complex
arts organizations because of a scarcity of executives qualified
to run them.  “There aren’t a lot of people who have the depth on the
arts side and ability to manage and fundraise,” she said.  Charity Navigator’s Berger disagrees. “Because of the
economy, we’re seeing an influx of phenomenally competent people
applying to leadership positions of non-profit organizations,”
he said.  Armstrong’s pay is comparable to chiefs of some other, much
smaller New York museums, based on their most recent tax returns.
The Guggenheim’s $61 million budget is five times that of the
 New Museum of Contemporary Art  on the Bowery, yet his
compensation is comparable to the $600,430 listed for  Lisa Phillips , the New Museum’s director. And Armstrong earned less
than the $680,097 attributed to  Adam Weinberg , director of the
 Whitney Museum of American Art . The Guggenheim’s budget is
nearly double that of the Whitney.  Job Cuts  In 2009, the Guggenheim Foundation’s deficit narrowed to
$12.3 million in 2009 from $14.6 million in 2008, as expenses
declined more than revenue. Contributions and grants fell 22
percent to $20.3 million. In the first half of 2009, the Fifth
Avenue museum cut about 25 jobs, or 8 percent of its positions,
after the foundation’s endowment shrank 18 percent in the nine
months ended June 2009.  The Art Awards, a fundraiser for the Guggenheim and non-
profit gallery  White Columns , will be held at 8 p.m. on Dec. 8
at the nightclub Webster Hall.  To contact the reporters of this story:
 Katya Kazakina  in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net ; or  Philip Boroff  in New York at
   pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 