-- I’d Sign Any Letter to Avert Inflation Crisis: Kevin Hassett
-- B y   K e v i n   H a s s e t t
-- 2010-11-22T02:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/i-d-sign-any-letter-to-avert-inflation-crisis-commentary-by-kevin-hassett.html
Last week, I joined a number of
economists and others in signing an  open letter  to Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke , urging him to discontinue the
second round of so-called quantitative easing, or QE2.  I’ve signed many open letters to policy makers over the
years. The response to this one was stunning. I was surprised,
and remain so, that the letter was criticized so widely and so
passionately as an attempt to politicize the Fed, one of the few
institutions in Washington insulated from partisan fighting.  The response of  David Zervos , head of global fixed income
strategy for Jefferies & Co., was typical. The level-headed
Zervos told clients who receive his influential commentary that
our open letter was “one of the saddest moments ever for the
economic profession. It is partisan politics and not sound
economics.”  The history of the economics profession must be pretty
sweet if this is the saddest moment ever.  Zervos and other critics are wrong for two reasons: The
economic rationale opposing quantitative easing is solid, and
criticizing the Fed isn’t a partisan act.  It’s true that most monetary economists accept that direct
asset purchases are one of the few options left for the Fed when
interest rates are close to zero. That doesn’t mean this
extraordinary measure is appropriate right now.  Bernanke himself, in an Aug. 27 speech, acknowledged that
“the expected benefits of additional stimulus from further
expanding the Fed’s balance sheet would have to be weighed
against potential risks and costs” -- and that those risks and
costs are uncertain.  Deflation Risk  The biggest potential benefit of QE2 is that it will reduce
the risk of deflation. If prices start dropping, the economy
could conceivably enter a death spiral, especially if wages
don’t adjust downward as prices fall. In that case, employers
might cut even more workers.  So yes, deflation risk is reduced by the Fed’s new buying
program. The possible benefits of this must be weighed against
significant costs.  For starters, there is the real risk that private markets
will offset the Fed action and drive interest rates higher. If
buyers of U.S. Treasuries decide that the U.S. is going to
inflate away its debt, they might run for exits, driving risk
premiums and expected future inflation much higher -- rough news
for the bond market. The fact that long-term rates have moved
higher in recent weeks suggests this concern is a real one.  Big Losses  There’s also the possibility that the Fed will have a hard
time withdrawing the stimulus when inflation increases. The Fed
will take big losses on its long-term bond positions if QE2
succeeds. Given how large the Fed’s balance sheet is, there’s a
genuine risk that it might find its capital cushion wiped out --
which, if the Fed were a traditional bank, would mean
insolvency.  This seems to trouble even one big-name Republican
economist who chose not to sign the letter -- Harvard University
Professor  Gregory Mankiw , chief economic adviser to President
 George W. Bush . He  wrote  that QE2 is “a small but risky step in
the right direction,” but also observed: “By borrowing short
and investing long, the Fed is in some ways becoming the hedge
fund of last resort.”  Another cost of QE2, one already playing out, is that U.S.
trading partners will see an attempt to manipulate our currency
and force a devaluation of the dollar. This might cause them to
retaliate and could even start a trade war. Bernanke added fuel
to the fire with his bellicose speech in Frankfurt last week.  Hard to Predict  Finally, the Fed’s willingness to take extraordinary
action, even when the economy is growing and inflation is
positive, suggests its policies will be much harder to predict
in the future.  What of the argument that the letter contributed to the
politicization of the Fed?  Elected officials using their power to influence monetary
policy would constitute a real threat to the central bank’s
independence. A letter from unelected Americans, famous or
otherwise, falls far short of such a threat. The Fed’s governors
might not like being criticized by a large group of policy
wonks, but they enjoy the ultimate power to ignore us.  I’ll be the first to admit that the letter may have
forfeited some impact because of the obvious Republican bent of
the signers, some of whom, shall we say, don’t exactly spend
their typical workday immersed in equations.  The politicization argument might make sense if there were
some clear gain for Republicans if the Fed changes policy. There
isn’t. Bernanke, remember, is a Republican, first appointed by
Bush. Who’s to say Democratic economists aren’t keeping similar
worries about QE2 to themselves simply because President  Barack Obama  is on board?  Best Advice  If dropping QE2, in helping the economy, also helps Obama’s
re-election chances, then so be it. It’s still my best advice as
an economist.  If developments in the debt and currency markets continue
to prove there’s good reason to question the Fed’s course,
perhaps Democrats will put together their own open letter to the
Fed. If they’re interested in bipartisanship, I would be willing
to sign that one too.  ( Kevin Hassett , director of economic-policy studies at the
American Enterprise Institute, is a Bloomberg News columnist. He
was an adviser to Republican Senator  John McCain  in the 2008
presidential election. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Kevin Hassett  at 
 khassett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  