-- Michael Dell Shows Why Ben Bernanke Is Impotent: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2010-11-22T01:59:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/michael-dell-shows-why-ben-bernanke-is-impotent-william-pesek.html
Suspicions that the  Federal
Reserve ’s moves won’t save the U.S. are often based on events in
Tokyo. Round Rock,  Texas , may be a better place to look.  That’s where the computer empire Michael Dell created in
1984 is based. As Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  pumps a new burst of
stimulus into the economy, he hopes to spur businesses to hire,
spend and help avoid a second recession.  It’s no longer so simple. In September,  Dell Inc . sold $1.5
billion in 3-, 5- and 30-year notes. In regulatory filings, Dell
said the proceeds were for “capital expenditures, advancements
to or investments in our subsidiaries, and acquisitions of
companies and assets.” Nine days later, Dell said it will spend
more than $100 billion in China during the next decade.  Dell says the money it raised won’t be used outside the U.S.
Yet it’s hard not to connect the dots and wonder what the Fed
thinks it will accomplish by flooding America with cash when
much of it will leak overseas. This is stimulating developing
nations in Asia and elsewhere more than the U.S.  There are two reasons why the Fed’s largess is bad for  Asia .
The first has gotten lots of press: The torrent of hot money is
adding to overheating risks. The second deserves more attention:
Asian governments gain room to foster the false perception that
their region is immune to the West’s malaise.  Global Fed  The internationalization of the Fed has been unfolding for
two decades. When  Mexico  crashed in the mid-1990s, traders from
Tokyo to  New York  looked to the Fed to rescue markets. When Asia
blew up in 1997 and  Russia  defaulted in 1998, markets again
turned to  Washington . The Fed calmed investors and U.S growth
surged.  That was then. An unexpected quirk of globalization is that
the mighty Fed has been reduced to tossing monetary experiments
at the wall to see what sticks. One round of quantitative easing
here to boost growth, another there. And so on, and so on.  Things have gone so full circle that former Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan , a man as responsible as any for the credit
crisis, is now taking potshots at the Bernanke Fed. The brouhaha
over U.S. interest rates has even made a Fed watcher out of
former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin.  All this is having a schizophrenic effect on Asia. On the
one hand, it’s giving investors that 1996 feeling. More money is
rushing into markets than can be productively used. In 1997,
remember, things ended badly.  Inflation Alert  Premier Wen Jiabao last week said China is drafting
measures to counter excessive price increases with inflation at
the highest in more than two years. McDonald’s Corp. tells the
story. The world’s largest restaurant chain is increasing prices
for its burgers, drinks and snacks in China to offset costs. On
Friday,  China ’s central bank said it will raise the reserve
ratio requirement for banks by 50 basis points starting Nov. 29.  On the other hand, Asians were the winners from the global
credit meltdown partly because of all the cash that arrived in
search of better returns. While Asia’s leaders abhor the
resulting rise in exchange rates, they understand that capital
inflows have benefits. Asia hasn’t had to open the fiscal
floodgates the way that the U.S., Japan and Europe have.  The risk is that Asian leaders let this good fortune go to
their heads. All isn’t well in the global financial system as
Ireland goes the way of  Greece . As  Europe ’s debt crisis broadens
and threatens bigger targets like  Spain , the global credit
crunch might kick up again. And who knows, maybe Ireland will
soon be hitting up cash-rich China for a bailout.  Fed’s Bubbles  Asia has proven it can live without the U.S. consumer, at
least for a while. Yet the quality of growth matters as much as
the quantity. Is it based on true, sustainable demand or the
Fed’s bubbles? There’s reason to think it’s the latter rather
than the former driving Asian markets. It means Asia’s current
pace isn’t sustainable as long as the $14 trillion U.S. economy
and troubled euro zone are limping.  Quantitative easing hasn’t worked for Japan. If it’s going
to work in the U.S.,  capital controls  may be inevitable. The Fed
must stop the seepage of liquidity overseas. It makes no sense
for the Fed to take such monumental risks with its balance sheet
if America isn’t reaping the benefits. Wanton U.S. policies also
are dangerous in the long run if they make developing nations
more vulnerable to boom-and-bust cycles.  That gets us back to  Round Rock , Texas. By investing so
much in China, Dell is anticipating the trajectory of global
growth. Standard Chartered Plc thinks China’s economy will
overtake the U.S. by 2020. If so -- and it’s a big if -- Dell is
just operating in the best interest of shareholders.  Bernanke shouldn’t be accelerating the process, though, and
that’s the upshot of his actions. It’s one thing to take the Fed
into unchartered territory. It’s quite another to force-feed the
benefits and risks of U.S. policies to other countries.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  