-- Michael Vick, Brett Favre Give Lasting Snapshot: Scott Soshnick
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2010-11-22T06:29:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/michael-vick-favre-offer-lasting-snapshots-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
A handful of good games and fine
finishes emerged from yesterday’s National Football League
schedule of events. But two snapshots have staying power.  This is about two men, two quarterbacks. The first kneeled
on the sideline, head bowed, his disbelieving eyes toward the
turf, wondering how things got so bad so fast. What more can go
wrong?  The other quarterback bounded from the tunnel, head, spirit
and confidence up, up, up, eyes toward the heavens, offering
thanks and no doubt wondering if things could get any better.
What more could go right? It isn’t every day, after all, that
the ex-con becomes the conquering hero. It isn’t every day that
Leavenworth creates a leader.  The sports world is rife with predictions of who’ll win and
who’ll wilt, of who’ll flourish and who’ll flop. Even so, no
 statistical analysis , no talking head could’ve predicted this
for  Brett Favre  and  Michael Vick .  Remember when three Minnesota Vikings veterans visited
Favre at his Mississippi home, selling the graybeard on the
notion of one more season, of football and fun and saying
goodbye from the game with a parade? It was about the perfect
ending for Favre and the Vikings, who came oh-so close last
season before the old gunslinger gaffed against the New Orleans
Saints.  “This has got me at a loss for words,” the 41-year-old
Favre said after his three wins and seven-loss Vikings were
shellacked by his former team, the Packers, 31-3, before the
home folks sporting purple jerseys and perplexed faces. “I
would never have expected to be in this position.”  A Better Person  Ditto for Vick, who joined the Philadelphia Eagles last
season as the backup to the backup. And then  Donovan McNabb , who
lobbied to give Vick a second chance, was traded. And then  Kevin Kolb  got hurt. And just like that the Eagles belonged to Vick,
who, as I’ve noted before, is a better person, quarterback and
teammate then he was before a dog fighting conviction sent him
to prison.  Vick, the inmate, would pray that something, anything,
would expedite his release. Nothing did. Prison taught patience,
which is obvious when Vick waits, waits, waits and flings
instead of flees a collapsing pocket.  Vick in an interview with  NBC , which televised last night’s
27-17 win over the New York Giants, copped to having cheated his
former team, the Atlanta Falcons, and having cheated himself. He
won’t dwell on what could’ve been, though, not with what may be
out there.  ‘Not Enough’  “I didn’t give them my all. I gave them everything on the
field, but sometimes that’s not enough,” Vick said. “This time
around, I just wanted to work harder than I ever worked before,
not shortchange myself. I didn’t dedicate myself the way I do
now.”  It’s an admission that in all likelihood applies to more
professional athletes than customers paying big bucks for
tickets want to know.  The game is won on the field, yes, but it’s also determined
in the film room, the weight room and on the practice field.
Vick knows that. Now, anyway. It took prison to make him a
professional out of him.  Favre did some speaking, too.  He uttered something about re-evaluation, which he didn’t
explain. He talked about the playoffs, mathematical
possibilities and hanging on to hope. It wasn’t supposed to be
this way for Favre and the Vikings, hyped by so many as Super
Bowl contenders. And yet there kneeled Favre, flummoxed.  Freeze frame.  Eagles’ Resilience  As for Vick, whose Eagles sit atop the NFC East, last night
was far from perfect.  No touchdown passes, although, in fairness,  Jason Avant  did
drop a gimme in the end zone. And Vick did run for a score. The
Giants, meantime, committed five turnovers, including a key
late-game giveaway in which quarterback  Eli Manning  dropped the
ball while diving head first instead of sliding, which, by rule,
would’ve negated any butterfingers.  “We had to be resilient,” said Vick, who, speaking of
lost fumbles, committed his first turnover in five games. Vick
was superhuman last week against Washington, throwing four
touchdown passes and running for another two. An aberration, he
said.  “It’s a crazy game,” Vick said. “I’m just going to
continue to chase success, on and off the field. If I do that,
redemption will come.”  Redemption for Vick. Regret from Favre.  Both were on display yesterday.  (Scott Soshnick is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  