-- Michelin Awards Second Star to Two Restaurants in Belgium: Eight Win First
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2010-11-22T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/michelin-awards-second-star-to-two-restaurants-in-belgium-eight-win-first.html
Two restaurants in Belgium gain
their second Michelin star in the guide to Belgium and
Luxembourg for 2011, and eight win their first.  The new two-star venues are  Nuance , in Duffel, and  Aan
Tafel bij Luc Bellings , in Hasselt. Clos St. Denis, in  Tongeren
a Vliermaal , loses its stars after closing for renovation.  “The Michelin guide confirms a clearly discernible trend
over the past few years: Fine dining has become more
affordable,” the company said today in an e-mailed release of
the awards. The guide will be published on Nov. 25.  Michelin & Cie.,  based in Clermont Ferrand, France, is the
world’s second-biggest tiremaker. The company produced its first
so-called Red Guide at the turn of the 20th century to encourage
motoring. Two stars denote excellent cooking, worth a detour.  The new one-star restaurants are Het Gebaar and Bij Lam &
Yin, in Antwerp; Alexandre and Kamo in Brussels;  Pouic-Pouic  in
Chapelle-lez-Herlaimont;  La Table de Maxime , in Paliseul; ’t
Ebdiep, in Sint-Amands; and  Bistro Margaux , in Sint-Martens-
Bodegem.  Two establishments in Belgium hold the maximum three stars:
De Karmeliet, in Bruges; and Hof van Cleve, in Kruishoutem. The
highest ranking in Luxembourg is for Mosconi, with two stars.  Six Belgian restaurants lose their stars: L’Ecailler du
Palais Royal, Marie and Bistrot du Mail, in Brussels; Fleur sur
l’Eau, Dendermonde; Hoeve St-Paul, Hasselt a Lummen; and Bistro
Novo, in Roeselare. There are no changes in Luxembourg.  In Brussels area, new Bib Gourmand awards for value include
La Manufacture, Bar Bik, El Txoko, Switch, Magenta and Leonor.  ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Richard Vines  in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 