-- Infineon Names Mayrhuber New Supervisory Board Chief
-- B y   [ b n : P R S N = 1 ]   E v a   V o n   S c h a p e r   [ ]   a n d   [ b n : P R S N = 1 ]   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y   [ ]
-- 2010-11-22T14:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/infineon-names-new-supervisory-board-chairman-finance-chief.html
     Nov. 22 (Bloomberg) --Infineon Technologies AG named a new
supervisory board chairman and chief financial officer in a move
that may help to end internal quarrels at Europe’s second-
biggest chip maker and assuage rebel shareholders.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG Chief Executive Officer  Wolfgang Mayrhuber  will become chairman of Infineon’s supervisory board
and RWE AG’s Head of Controlling  Dominik Asam  will become CFO,
the semiconductor maker said today. Mayrhuber’s contract is for
four years and must be approved by shareholders. He will succeed
 Klaus Wucherer , who agreed to step down after a group of
shareholders objected to his appointment in February.  “Mayrhuber was a very well-respected CEO at Lufthansa and
he will help overcome the corporate governance issues Infineon
has had in the past,”  Thomas Becker , a Commerzbank AG analyst,
said in an interview today. He said the decision on the new
chairman comes earlier than expected and that the news is
“neutral to slightly positive.”  Some shareholders at Infineon’s annual general meeting in
February objected to CEO  Peter Bauer ’s proposal to make Wucherer
chairman. They submitted their own candidate because they said
they wanted a fresh start after 10 previous quarters of losses.
Asam, the new CFO, replaces  Marco Schroeter , who quit in August
over differences about future company policy.  Infineon shares dropped 0.6 percent to 6.55 euros as of
3:52 a.m. in Frankfurt trading.  Opposition  In February, a majority of shareholders approved Wucherer,
who had served on the board since 1999. He promised to only stay
in the position for one year while the company searched for an
outside candidate, despite being tapped for a four-year term.  Wucherer said today at a press conference in Munich that
Mayrhuber was chosen for his global reputation, his network of
international contacts and his technological expertise.  Mayrhuber is scheduled to step down as Deutsche Lufthansa
CEO at the end of year.  The new CFO Asam will begin at Infineon on Jan. 1. He was
previously responsible for strategy and investor relations at
Infineon before becoming CEO of Siemens Financial Services at
Siemens AG.  Infineon, based in Neubiberg, Germany, returned to profit
in the 12 months through September as demand for cars, mobile
phones and other electronic devices recovered following the
economic slowdown. The company on Nov. 16 said it will pay its
first dividend in a decade and plans a share buyback.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva Von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net  and
 Allison Connolly  in Frankfurt at
   aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  