-- Insurers May Lose $4 Billion on Municipal-Bond Investments, Moody's Says
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2010-11-22T19:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/insurers-may-lose-4-billion-amid-muni-stress-moody-s-says.html
U.S.  property and casualty  insurers,
a group that includes  Allstate Corp.  and American International
Group Inc., may lose as much as $4 billion from holdings in
municipal bonds, Moody’s Investors Service said.  Losses of $2 billion to $4 billion wouldn’t be
catastrophic, the ratings firm said in a statement today.
Insurers hold $370 billion of municipal bonds, or about 27
percent of the industry’s invested assets, which may generate
more than $10 billion in annual returns, Moody’s said.  “While recognizing that public finance in the United
States is under strain, we nevertheless view P&C insurers’ muni
bond exposure as manageable,” Moody’s Vice President  Paul Bauer 
wrote in the statement. Municipal credit quality is likely to
remain “generally resilient even through a period of economic
stress,” according to the statement.  Municipal bonds have lost favor as state and local
governments face a record $18.5 billion in budget deficits this
year, according to a National Governors Association  survey .
States, seeking to cover jobless benefits, have  borrowed $41
billion  from the federal government, which has been providing
cash without charging interest under the economic stimulus plan
enacted after President  Barack Obama  took office.  “Under a baseline scenario, which assumes a slow and
gradual economic recovery, we expect very minimal credit losses,
given the high credit quality of the sector,” Bauer said.  Muni Market  Property casualty insurers own about 13 percent of the $2.8
trillion U.S. municipal bond market, Moody’s said. About three-
quarters of the municipal investments of insurers rated by
Moody’s are rated Aa or Aaa, the highest rating possible, and
the average rating of the securities is Aa2.  Insurers could recover some losses from municipal bond
defaults as investors are more likely to be repaid by state and
local governments than corporations.  “The loss estimate partially reflects our expectations
that there would be lower loss severity for muni bonds but
doesn’t give full credit for that dynamic,” Bauer said in an
interview. “There could be credit losses, but given the total
size of the portfolio and offsetting investment income we think
it would be minimal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Doss  in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut in New York at   dkraut@bloomberg.net  