-- Ireland Is Second Euro Nation to Seek Aid as Banks Wobble
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2010-11-22T13:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/ireland-seeks-european-union-rescue-as-outsized-crisis-overwhelms-nation.html
Ireland became the second euro
country to seek a rescue as the cost of saving its banks
threatened a rerun of the Greek debt crisis that destabilized
the currency.  The euro erased gains and Irish bonds pared an early
advance after Moody’s Investors Service said a “ multi-notch”
downgrade in Ireland’s Aa2 credit rating was “most likely.”
The prospect of January elections loomed as the Green Party said
it would pull out of Prime Minister  Brian Cowen ’s coalition.  A package that Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimates may total
95 billion euros ($130 billion) failed to damp speculation that
Portugal and Spain would need to tap the emergency fund set up
by the European Union and International Monetary Fund after the
Greece rescue.  “It probably won’t halt contagion. The sovereign crisis
isn’t yet over,” said  Sylvain Broyer , chief euro-region
economist at Natixis in Frankfurt. “Ireland is in the middle of
a difficult crisis.”  The aid, which Irish officials said as recently as Nov. 15
they didn’t need, marks the latest blow to an economy that more
than doubled in the decade ending in 2006. The bursting of the
real-estate bubble in 2008 plunged the country into a recession
and brought its banks close to collapse. With Irish  bond yields 
near a record high, policy makers are trying to keep the crisis
from spreading.  Threat to Euro  “Clearly because of the size of their loan books, the huge
risks they took, they became a threat not only to the state but
to the” entire euro region, Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  told
Dublin-based RTE radio in an interview today. “The banks will
be downsized to the real needs of the Irish economy” to “Irish
consumers and Irish businesses. That has to be the primary focus
of Irish banks.”  The euro slid 0.3 percent to $1.3633 at 1:30 p.m. in
London. The yield on Irish 10-year notes fell 5 basis points to
8.30 percent after falling as low as 8.11 percent.  The U.K. and Sweden may contribute bilateral loans, the EU
said in a statement. Lenihan declined to say how big the package
will be, saying that it will be less than 100 billion euros.
Goldman Sachs Chief European Economist  Erik Nielsen  said
yesterday the government needs 65 billion euros to fund itself
for the next three years and 30 billion euros for the banks.  Deficit, Banks  Talks will focus on the government’s deficit cutting plans
and restructuring the banking system, the EU said in a
statement. Cowen who spoke at the same press briefing as
Lenihan, said the banks will be stress tested. Ireland
nationalized  Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  in 2009 and is preparing to
take a majority stake in  Allied Irish Banks Plc , the second-
largest bank.  Irish banks may get immediate capital injections,  Matthew Elderfield , the country’s head of financial regulation, said in
a speech today. The country’s two biggest lenders need at least
5 billion euros immediately,  Ciaran Callaghan , an analyst with
NCB Stockbrokers, wrote in a note to clients on Nov. 18.  The package for Ireland will total as much as 60 percent of
gross domestic product, compared with 47 percent for Greece.  Cowen plans to announce the government’s four-year budget
plan this week and said an agreement with the EU and the IMF
will come “in the next few weeks.”  The Green Party said today it will quit the government
after the budget is passed, leaving Cowen without a majority in
parliament. Irish voters “feel misled” by the government, leader
 John Gormley  said at a press conference in Dublin.  No ‘Bogeyman’  Irish officials initially resisted pressure from the EU to
take any aid, saying they were fully funded until the middle of
2011. European leaders sought to head off contagion from Ireland
and reduce pressure on the European Central Bank to prop up the
country’s lenders by providing them with unlimited liquidity.  Cowen defended his reversal on the need for aid. “I don’t
accept I’m the bogeyman,” he said. “Now circumstances have
changed, we’ve changed our policies.”  The bailout follows two years of budget cuts that failed to
restore  market  confidence as the cost of shoring up the
financial industry soared.  Lenihan cancelled bond auctions for October and November
and announced 6 billion euros of austerity measures for 2011 on
Nov. 4 in a bid to restore investor confidence. Those efforts
failed after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  triggered an
investor exodus by saying bondholders should foot some of the
bill in any future bailout.  Irish Spread  The risk premium on Ireland’s 10-year debt over German
bunds, Europe’s benchmark, fell to 523 basis points today. It
 widened  to a record 652 basis points on Nov. 11, with the yield
reaching a record 9.1 percent. In 2007, it cost Ireland less
than Germany to borrow. Its 10-year spread then fell to as low
as 77 basis points less than bunds. The  ISEQ stock index  has
plunged 70 percent from its record in 2007.  Ireland will draw on the 750-billion-euro fund set up by
the EU and IMF in May as part of the Greek bailout to protect
the currency shared by 16 countries.  Yields on bonds of Spain and Portugal have jumped amid
concern that fallout from Ireland would spread. The extra yield
that investors demand to hold Portuguese 10-year bonds instead
of German bunds climbed to a record 484 basis points on Nov. 11.  “Speculative actions against Portugal and Spain are not
justified, though it can’t be excluded,” Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said today on RTL Luxembourg radio.
“In a moment where financial markets have an excessive tendency
to punish those countries that didn’t stick 100 percent to an
orthodox consolidation, one can never exclude that similar
things will happen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe  Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
 Dara Doyle  at  ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at  jhertling@bloomberg.net  