-- Cowen Plans Irish Election for Next Year After Budget Passed
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2010-11-22T19:35:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/irish-government-junior-coalition-partner-to-quit-seeks-january-election.html
Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen 
said he will seek national elections early next year after his
government passes its 2011 budget, one day after he asked the
European Union to bail out Ireland’s banking system.  “The most important issue is the passing of this budget,”
Cowen, 50, told reporters in Dublin today. After that “it’s my
intention to seek a dissolution” of the  government . When asked
about speculation he planned to resign, Cowen said he wanted to
continue leading his Fianna Fail party.  Parliamentary support for Cowen evaporated today after the
Green Party, his junior coalition partners, called for a January
election and said he “misled’ voters over the past two weeks.
Two independent lawmakers have also said they may not support
the budget, which is scheduled for Dec. 7.  Cowen has presided over the near collapse of Ireland’s
banking system since taking over from  Bertie Ahern  in 2008.
Cowen’s biggest decision was to guarantee the deposits of Irish
banks after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., a
move that proved his undoing when the government proved unable
to plug the hole left in banks’ balance sheets by a property
crash.  While the Greens have said they will support the  budget ,
losing the independents could deprive Cowen of a majority. That
may force him to turn to the opposition Fine Gael and Labour
parties for help.  Poison Chalice  ‘‘It would seem to be the right thing to do in terms of the
national economy and would also be politically astute” for Fine
Gael and Labour to either support of abstain from voting on the
budget, said Austin Hughes, chief economist with KBC Bank
Ireland. “The likelihood is that Fine Gael and Labour would
prefer that the poison chalice is taken away from them for the
moment.”  Cowen currently has the support of 82 lawmakers in the
parliament, including six Greens and a number of independents,
compared with 79 for the combined opposition. His party may also
lose a seat in Donegal at a local election in north west Ireland
on Nov. 25.  While the budget is announced on Dec.7, it may take as long 
as two months for all the legislation associated with the plan 
to be enacted. The election may not be held until March, 
broadcaster RTE said, without citing anyone.            Cowen’s position is weakening just as he opens formal
negotiations with the EU and the IMF over a rescue package that
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. says may be worth 95 billion euros
($130 billion). Some opposition lawmakers signaled they may not
automatically reject the budget in the current circumstances.  Emergency Measure  Richard Bruton , enterprise spokesman with Ireland’s largest
opposition party Fine Gael, said today “we may need some
emergency measure in place in order to get us to a general
election.” Labour lawmaker  Pat Rabbitte s aid the reputation of
the country depends on the upcoming budget.  Irish  bonds , which earlier rebounded after the government
asked the EU to bail out its banking system, pared gains. The
yield on the 10-year Irish government bond closed at 8.09
percent after trading at 7.91 percent earlier today.  Support for Fianna Fail, which has governed Ireland since
1997, dropped to a record low this month, the Sunday Business
Post said yesterday. Backing for Fianna Fail dropped 1
percentage point to 17 percent, the paper said. Fine Gael rose 1
percentage point to 33 percent, while Labour was unchanged at 27
percent, according to the report.  The poll of 1,000 people by Red C was carried out between
Nov. 15 and Nov. 17, a day before EU, IMF and European Central
Bank officials arrived n Dublin to start talks on an Irish
rescue package.  “I think he has done tremendous damage to the country, the
government has done damage to the country, and the people of
this country do not trust him and do not believe what he has to
say,” said Fianna Fail lawmaker Noel O’Flynn today. “I believe
his credibility is in tatters now, and the honorable thing for
Brian Cowen to do now is stand done and let somebody else
takeover.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Dublin at  smeier@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  