-- Ireland Must Give $6.8 Billion Immediately to Biggest Banks, Analysts Say
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-11-22T13:54:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/irish-banks-need-6-8-billion-in-cash-immediately-analysts-say.html
Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan 
needs to inject at least 5 billion euros ($6.8 billion) more
cash into the country’s two biggest lenders immediately as part
of Ireland’s international rescue, analysts said.  Lenihan should also break up the lenders in preparation for
a sale and force further losses on subordinated bondholders of
 Allied Irish Banks Plc , the nation’s second-biggest lender by
market value,  Bank of Ireland Plc , the largest, and Irish Life &
Permanent Plc, the analysts said.  “We need to sort the bank issue out once and for all,”
 Oliver Gilvarry , head of research at Dolmen Securities in
Dublin, said in a telephone interview. “The banks need to be
capitalized with equity up front.”  Ireland agreed yesterday to seek aid from the European
Union and International Monetary Fund. Lenihan declined to say
how big the bailout will be -- only estimating it will be less
than 100 billion euros.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Chief European
Economist  Erik Nielsen  said yesterday the government needs 65
billion euros to fund itself for the next three years and a
further 30 billion euros for the lenders.  Bank of Ireland, in which the government has a 36 percent
stake,  fell  as much as 23 percent in Dublin trading, and was
down 9.2 cents, or 19 percent, to 38.9 cents by 2:45 p.m. Allied
Irish, which the government is preparing to take majority
control of by the year-end, slid 12 percent to 38.3 cents. Irish
Life & Permanent dropped 24 percent to 87 cents.  Stress Tests  Irish banks forced the government to seek a bailout after
bad loan losses surged following the collapse of the country’s
decade-long real estate boom in 2008. That year, Lenihan pledged
to back most liabilities, including all deposits in Irish banks,
a promise that led the government to inject 33 billion euros to
support the lenders. As loan losses climbed, the government put
the cost of the rescue at 50 billion euros in September this
year, fueling investor doubts that Ireland could afford the
bailout.  Central Bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said on Nov. 10 that
investors were still concerned about problems “hiding” within
the banks. He also said that losses for Irish and overseas
lenders operating in Ireland may total as much as 85 billion
euros, more than half the country’s annual economic output.  Stress Tests  The government will start stress-testing the country’s
lenders again in preparation for the bailout. All the country’s
banks passed the EU regulators’ tests in July, designed to show
how banks would withstand a recession and writedowns on some of
their sovereign debt holdings.  “A detailed structural plan for the resolution of all
Irish banking difficulties will be devised as part of the
program,” Lenihan said yesterday. “The first step will be to
do a detailed stress-testing on the institutions concerned and
to ensure that their capital positions are robust enough.”  Lenders need additional capital to boost their equity Tier
1 ratios, a measure of financial strength, to at least 10
percent, Dolmen’s Gilvarry said. The government could then use
“some form of contingency fund to provide a further backstop.”  Ireland’s head of financial regulation,  Matthew Elderfield ,
in March ordered the country’s two biggest banks to raise a
combined 10 billion euros by year-end under new targets for
lenders to have  7 percent equity Tier 1  and 8 percent core Tier
1 ratios. Elderfield required Allied Irish to raise an
additional  3 billion euros  in September as loan losses
increased.  ‘Immediate’ Injections  Allied Irish and Bank of Ireland would each need at least
2.5 billion euros to raise their equity Tier 1 ratios to more
than 10 percent,  Ciaran Callaghan , an analyst with  NCB
Stockbrokers , wrote in a note to clients on Nov. 18.  “Immediate capital injections could be made to make faster
progress to full compliance with international” capital
standards, Elderfield said in a speech in Dublin today. He said
a “standby contingent capital facility could be considered to
provide a backstop to the banks” as markets remain concerned
about further losses beyond what has been assessed by the
central bank this year.  Honohan told a parliamentary committee meeting in Dublin on
Nov. 10 that while one solution may be to “over-capitalize”
Irish banks, “this is not something which the state can be
lightly asked to do, given the pressures on its finances.”  Lenihan said first on Nov. 18 that discussions on banks
focused on setting up of a “contingency fund” available to
recapitalize them.  Firepower  “It will be a powerful demonstration of firepower behind
the banks,” Lenihan said in an interview with Dublin-based
broadcaster RTE Radio yesterday. “Some of that amount may be
required in terms of capitalizing the banks. That can only be
established after detailed stress tests are done.”  His comments prompted speculation that Ireland may use the
aid to acquire contingent convertible bonds, or so-called co-
cos, which convert into equity if banks’ capital ratios fall
below a certain level,  Eamonn Hughes , head of research at
Dublin-based securities firm  Goodbody Stockbrokers , said in an
interview.  The plan may not provide enough certainty for the banks, as
“investors may automatically start betting that some of the co-
co bonds would need to be converted in time,” Hughes said.  Lenihan also said the government will force banks to shrink
their operations and sell assets. Bank of Ireland has a joint
venture with the Post Office in the U.K., while Allied Irish
halted the sale of its U.K. division this month.  Asset Disposals  “One clear option is to look at the asset base of the
banks themselves to see what overseas and non-essential assets
can be disposed of,” Lenihan said yesterday. This relates to
“assets other than those needed to fund businesses in Ireland
and fund consumer activity in Ireland.”  The National Asset Management Agency, a so-called bad bank
set up by the government last year to take over lenders’ risky
commercial real-estate loans, may acquire “further defective
loans,” Lenihan said in an interview with Dublin-based
broadcaster Newstalk radio today.  The government could force a 10 billion-euro loss on
holders of the subordinated bonds of publicly traded banks by
making them exchange their securities for equity in the banks,
NCB’s Callaghan said. That would boost the banks’ equity Tier 1
ratios to more than 12 percent, Callaghan said.  Bondholders  “The pricing of these instruments over recent weeks is
already beginning to reflect some type of restructuring,” he
said. A swap would “swiftly” address “the capital issue while
at the same time helping avoid outright state control.”  Allied Irish  and  Bank of Ireland  have generated a combined
3.37 billion euros of gains over the past 21 months from buying
back and exchanging debt at prices lower than their valuation on
the banks’ balance sheets, company filings show.  Bank of Ireland’s 1 billion euros of 10 percent notes due
2020 fell 3.25 cents on the euro to a record 63 cents, according
to BNP Paribas SA prices on Bloomberg. The Dublin-based
company’s 248 million euros of floating-rate notes due 2017
declined 1 cent to 53 cents, BNP Paribas prices show.  Junior debt of Allied Irish, in which the government holds
more than 90 percent, also fell. The lender’s 368 million pounds
($592 million) of 12.5 percent subordinated bonds due 2019
dropped 3 cents to 40 cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 