-- Itau’s Real Sale Shows Overseas Cost Advantage: Brazil Credit
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2010-11-22T22:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/itau-s-real-sale-shows-overseas-cost-advantage-brazil-credit.html
Itau Unibanco Holding SA’s  first
overseas Brazilian real-denominated bond sale in more than three
years is highlighting the cost advantage of borrowing abroad
versus issuing debt locally.  Itau, Brazil’s largest bank by  market value , sold 500
million reais ($290.8 million) of five-year international real
debt last week to yield 10.5 percent, 180 basis points less than
similar-maturity Brazilian government bonds offered locally.  Overseas real bond sales surged to a record this year after
President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva imposed a 6 percent tax on
foreigners’ bond investments to curb a rally in the real. Local
issuers of real debt abroad can use proceeds to buy the
government’s higher-yielding bonds without incurring the levy.
The yield gap shows how Lula’s decision to tax foreign investor
dollar flows is opening up “arbitrage” possibilities for
Brazilian borrowers, according to Nomura Securities Inc.  “This is what happens when governments try to do these
capital controls but begin to pick and choose the flows,”  Tony Volpon , a Latin America strategist at Nomura in New York, said
in a telephone interview. “People just arbitrage the stuff.
It’s a consequence of badly thought out government policy.
You’re going to see many deals.”  Investor demand for local-currency debt sold
internationally is rising as they seek higher-yielding
alternatives to near-zero interest rates in the U.S., Europe and
Japan. Peru sold $1.5 billion of bonds denominated in soles on
Nov. 10, the biggest issue of local currency debt by a Latin
American government. Colombia, the Philippines and Brazil have
also sold bonds denominated in their own currencies this year,
while Russia is planning an international ruble debt sale.  Tripling of Tax  Itau’s offering pushed overseas real debt sales to $10.9
billion this year, almost double the $5.5 billion issued in
2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Sao Paulo-
based bank sold the bonds a month after the government tripled
the tax on foreign investors’ fixed-income purchases to stem the
real’s two-year, 39 percent rally and rein in a current-account
deficit that swelled to an annual record of $47 billion.  At 10.5 percent, the yield on Itau’s real bonds is below
Brazil’s benchmark  overnight rate , known as Selic, of 10.75
percent. Itau’s press office in Sao Paulo said it couldn’t
comment on the offering because the transaction hasn’t been
closed. The yield on the government’s 10 percent bond due in
2015 was 12.3 percent on Nov. 19.  The tax has sparked foreign-investor demand for
international real bonds because it allows them to profit from
the world’s second-highest benchmark rate while sidestepping the
levy. Only Croatia has higher inflation-adjusted rates among 46
countries tracked by Bloomberg.  ‘Take Advantage’  “By creating these taxes and putting regulations you
create segmented markets out there which allow people to take
advantage of certain opportunities,”  Pablo Cisilino , who helps
manage $14 billion in emerging-market debt at Stone Harbor
Investment in New York, said in a telephone interview. “Some
guys can take the opportunity to do that. Some guys that are
smaller cannot. So in reality the country’s worse off. But some
guys are better off.”  Investment banks have sold a record $1.6 billion of
overseas real-linked bonds this year, topping the $1.4 billion
issued in all of 2007, according to Bloomberg data.  Morgan Stanley, the sixth-largest U.S. bank by assets, sold
575 million reais of 10-year bonds abroad to yield 11.5 percent,
according to Bloomberg data.  Mary Claire Delaney , a spokeswoman
for the New York-based bank, said in an e-mail that Morgan
Stanley doesn’t comment on its debt sales.  InBev Sale  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV , the world’s biggest brewer, raised
750 million reais in an overseas offering this month. The
company, based in Leuven, Belgium, paid a yield of 9.75 percent
on the securities.  “Given the recent developments in the Brazilian real
market with respect to foreign exchange and rates, there is a
good opportunity for such a transaction,”  Marianne Amssoms , a
spokeswoman for InBev, wrote in an e-mailed statement. The sale
“is in line with a commitment to manage the maturities of our
debt” and “aligning the currencies of our debt with our
operating cash flows,” she wrote.  The real fell 0.4 percent to 1.7216 per dollar at 5:31 p.m.
New York time.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. securities widened 6
basis points to 183, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps climbed 3 basis points
to 111, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Yields on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contract due in
January 2012 rose 11 basis points to 11.77 percent.  Stone Harbor’s Cisilino said overseas real bonds sold by
banks are unattractive because they yield less than local
government debt.  “There’s other ways to get access to the local market,”
Cisilino said in a telephone interview. “Why would you buy a
corporate bond below where the sovereign trades?”  Banco Bradesco SA , Brazil’s second-largest bank by market
value, withdrew an offering of five-year real-linked bonds on
Nov. 16 after concern a debt crisis in Europe was worsening
sparked a drop in global markets.  VTB Bank , a unit of Russia’s second-largest bank, plans to
sell five-year real-linked debt overseas, according to a person
familiar with the transaction who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set. BTG Pactual and VTB Capital are
arranging the sale, the person said.  ‘Window Open’  More real-linked offerings are likely, according to
Nomura’s Volpon.  “They’ve left this other window open, and now various
banks, companies, very credit-worthy institutions are going to
go through that window and issue bonds to meet demand,” he
said. “It’s very emblematic that Itau is issuing below Selic.”  Growing investor demand for overseas real bonds is giving
companies an additional avenue to diversify funding, said
 Fabianna Del Canto , who works on the emerging-markets syndicate
desk at Barclays Plc in London.  “It’s raised our collective awareness that this market is
growing,” said Del Canto, who helped manage the InBev offering
with Deutsche Bank AG and Itau. When global corporations look at
financing themselves, “the real hasn’t been one of the markets
that’s been part of that dialogue or thought process -- and all
of a sudden it is,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gabrielle Coppola  in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  