-- Japan Must `Open the Country' or Risk Stagnation, Kan Aide Furukawa Says
-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2010-11-22T04:31:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/japan-must-open-the-country-or-risk-stagnation-kan-aide-furukawa-says.html
Japan must “open the country” to
free trade or risk continued stagnant economic growth and high
unemployment, a senior adviser to Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said.  “Japan needs to be connected to the rest of the world,”
Deputy Chief Cabinet Secretary  Motohisa Furukawa  said in a Nov.
19 interview in Tokyo. “If Japan’s trade and investment
environment becomes less attractive than those in other
countries, there’s a possibility that future growth and
employment opportunities will be lost.”  Kan’s push to join  Trans-Pacific Partnership  trade talks
with nine Asia-Pacific countries drew opposition within his own
party because an accord would alienate a key voting bloc by
ending farm tariffs. A Yomiuri newspaper poll earlier this month
found that more than 60 percent of the country favors joining
the negotiations to boost the economy, which has been held back
by falling prices and a surging currency.  While agriculture is “most likely to be affected by trade
liberalization,” the industry is hampered by low profitability
and a workforce with an average age of 65.8, said Furukawa, a
former Ministry of Finance official. Kan’s administration is
restructuring farming policy and will have an outline ready by
next June, he said.  “We need to press ahead with fundamental domestic reforms
to strengthen the competitiveness of Japan’s farming,” Furukawa,
44, said. “This is a good opportunity to shift to an aggressive
agriculture policy” by exporting products while touting their
quality and safety, he said.  ‘Concrete Steps’  Kan this month chaired an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
summit in Yokohama that agreed to take “concrete steps” toward
creating a regional free-trade zone. He reiterated his intention
to join the U.S.-led TPP talks, overcoming resistance from some
lawmakers in his  Democratic Party of Japan . President  Barack Obama  met with Kan in Yokohama and said he welcomed Japan’s
interest in the negotiations.  Japan has signed agreements with 10 countries and the
Association of Southeast Asian Nations. Those deals apply to 16
percent of its international trade, compared with U.S. accords
that cover 38 percent and South Korea’s 36 percent, according to
Japanese Cabinet Office data.  “Japan should obviously join the TPP for its economic
merits,” said  Tsuneo Watanabe , director of foreign and security
policy research at the Tokyo Foundation. “More importantly,
Japan should show its commitment to working with the U.S. for
Asia’s stability and prosperity by joining.”  Lower Corporate Taxes  Japan is also working to lower corporate taxes and address
immigration barriers to attract overseas investment, Furukawa
said. The Kan administration will make efforts to broaden the
sales of government bonds to foreign investors, he said.  Three Japanese business lobbies this month urged the
administration to join the TPP negotiations.  “If we miss this chance, we fear we’ll be left behind from
the global economic growth and prosperity,” said  Hiromasa Yonekura , head of the Japan Business Federation, also known as
Keidanren.  As many as 3,000 farmers, who benefit from a 778 percent
tariff on rice, rallied in Tokyo on Nov. 10 against the talks.  Obama invited Kan to visit the U.S. “next spring” during
a Nov. 13 meeting. The U.S. aims to conclude the TPP by the next
APEC gathering in Hawaii in November 2011 after five rounds of
talks, said U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  in a Nov. 14
phone interview.  Kan’s cabinet decided Nov. 9 to start consulting with TPP
nations to gather information. The nine countries are the U.S.,
Australia, Singapore, New Zealand, Brunei, Chile, Vietnam, Peru
and Malaysia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
 Takashi Hirokawa  in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  