-- Junk Bond Investors Are Demanding Borrowers Tighten Safeguards
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2010-11-23T05:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/junk-bond-investors-force-companies-to-tighten-debt-safeguards.html
Junk bond investors are forcing
companies to improve the terms of their debt offerings to
bolster protection against moves that threaten creditworthiness.  ClubCorp Inc., which has been marketing bonds for almost
two weeks, included a provision in its planned $415 million
offering to prevent dividend or stock repurchases for two years,
according to a person familiar with the offering.  Performance
Food Group Co.  revised its proposed $550 million notes sale to
require its units to guarantee the debt once certain real-estate
leases expire, another person said.  Companies that have been tapping the high-yield, high-risk
corporate bond market at the fastest pace on record are having
to adjust terms as speculative-grade debt heads for its first
monthly loss since May. Changes to creditor protections show
that investors are reclaiming the balance of power from issuers,
said  Alex Dill , senior covenant officer at New York-based
Moody’s Investors Service.  “There were a lot of issues that came to market, and
oversupply let investors be more discriminating,” Dill said.
“They’re shifting the level of protection back toward
bondholders.”  ClubCorp, based in Dallas and owned by KSL Capital Partners
LLC, sold its 10 percent notes due in December 2018 yesterday at
a yield of 11 percent after saying it would change the
covenants, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company added a provision of the bond sale to prevent
dividends or stock repurchases for two years, unless ClubCorp
completes a $125 million underwritten public equity offering
said the person, who declined to be identified as the marketing
was private.  Patty Jerde , a ClubCorp spokeswoman, didn’t return
a call seeking comment.  ‘Take Anything’  Performance Food Group of Richmond, Virginia, may issue its
debt at a yield of 10.5 percent as soon as today, said the
person, who also declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set.  Nortek Inc. sold $250 million of debt on Nov. 18 after
eliminating a provision that allowed it to call up to 10 percent
of the notes at 103 cents on the dollar for three years,
according to another person. The company earlier marketed $300
million of the debt.  “Issuers lately have approached the markets believing
investors would take anything they served up,” said  Holt Goddard , an analyst at Covenant Review LLC, a New York-based
research firm. “Now investors are having better luck pushing
back.”  High-yield, or junk, debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
and less than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s. Companies have sold
$262.2 billion of the bonds this year, the most on record,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Average yields on the debt have fallen 1.39 percentage
points this year to 7.81 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. They touched 7.55 percent, the lowest
since March 2005, on Nov. 9, the index data show. The debt has
lost 0.3 percent this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
 Boris Korby  in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 