-- K+S Offers to Buy Potash One of Canada in $427 Million Friendly Takeover
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2010-11-22T15:47:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/k-s-agrees-to-acquire-canadian-miner-potash-one-for-about-427-million.html
K+S AG , Europe’s largest potash
producer, agreed to buy Canada’s  Potash One Inc.  for C$434
million ($427 million) to access reserves of the crop nutrient.  Shareholders of Potash One will get C$4.50 a share in a
“friendly” takeover accepted by the Canadian company’s board,
Kassel, Germany-based K+S said in a release today. The offer is
24 percent higher than Potash One’s closing price on Nov. 19.  With dwindling capacity and factories running close to full
speed, K+S faced pressure to secure new reserves as demand for
potash picks up. The deal gives it access to deposits including
the Legacy Project, an advanced greenfield site that may yield
as much as 2.7 million tons of potassium chloride annually.  “The new potash assets together with our existing domestic
potash sites will enhance our international competitiveness,”
K+S Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Steiner  said in the
statement.  Steiner said in 2007 that his company was poised to open a
new potash mine. No venture materialized and K+S went on to buy
Dow Chemical Co.’s Morton salt division two years later,
becoming the world’s largest supplier of salt.  Demand Rebound  Demand for the crop nutrient is recovering from a slump and
is set to rise by 3 percent to 5 percent annually, the company
has  forecast .  Potash One’s Legacy deposit -- located in Saskatchewan,
Canada -- requires about $2.5 billion in  investment  and will
begin production from 2015 at the earliest, K+S said. The
company also has several potash exploration licenses in the
Canadian province.  Steiner turned to an acquisition after K+S’s initial plans
to ally with EuroChem Mineral & Chemical Co. to develop a site
in Russia fizzled out and a tender to reopen a state-owned
potash mine in the east German town of Rossleben was postponed.  The company on Nov. 11 highlighted that its capacity, at
7.5 million tons per year, was lower than the 7.8 million tons
previously estimated, as existing mines suffer declines in
grades. It also announced it will stop selling some low-potash
content products along with the closure of a site in France.  K+S faces heightened competition as the potash industry is
attracting metals mining companies with the funds to develop
potash reserves. Vale SA, the world’s biggest iron ore miner, is
pumping about $4.5 billion into its Rio Colorado project in
Argentina, and will be supplying the market with 11 million tons
by 2017. BHP Billiton Ltd. this month abandoned a $40 billion
hostile bid for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 