-- K+S Seeks Potash Expansion, Tie-Ups as Plants Run at Full Steam
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2010-11-22T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/k-s-seeks-potash-expansion-tie-ups-as-plants-run-at-full-steam.html
K+S AG , Europe’s largest potash
producer, is considering takeovers to access more deposits as
production at existing sites approaches full capacity, said
Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Steiner .  Developing new reserves with partners is another option,
according to Steiner, who spoke to journalists during a Nov. 19
visit to K+S’s salt facility in Bernburg, Germany. He declined
to name potential partners or say how much the Kassel-based
company would be willing to spend.  “We are looking at possible new mines, including
acquisitions” Steiner said. “We’d also consider a project with
a local partner.”  Failure to access new deposits means K+S risks having
growth constrained, as demand for the crop nutrient recovers
from a slump. The company’s initial plans to ally with EuroChem
Mineral & Chemical Co. to develop a site in Russia fizzled out
and a tender to reopen a state-owned potash mine in the east
German town of Rossleben has been postponed.  Global demand for potash is set to rise by 3 percent to 5
percent annually, the company  forecasts . Growth is coinciding
with a reduction in capacity and a shortage of skilled workers,
as K+S’s existing mines suffer declines in grades and the
closing of a site in France.  Capacity for potash and magnesium is set to fall to about
7.5 million tons per year from 7.8 million tons. Even the lower
level requires hiring miners and completing environmental
projects to reduce wastewater emissions, measures that will
require at least two years, Steiner said on Nov. 11.  Full Speed  K+S potash production will just exceed 7 million tons next
year, implying a factory run rate approaching 100 percent,
compared with an industry average of 85 percent, analysts said.  “K+S currently has no chance of increasing potash
capacity,”  Andreas Heine , an equity analyst at UniCredit in
Munich, wrote in a Nov. 18 report. Faced with production
constraints, he reduced his share-price target to 52 euros from
54 euros, while recommending clients “hold” K+S stock.  Analysts  from Nomura, NordLB and Bankhaus Metzler have also
reduced their targets since the company flagged lower capacity.  “The declining production will be an ongoing topic” and
the company faces losing market share, Heine said. “This
highlights the importance of new mining projects.”  K+S capacity struggles come against a backdrop of
increasing production by global metal mining companies that have
been attracted to the nutrient and have the funds to exploit
acquired reserves.  Vale SA, the world’s biggest iron ore miner, is pumping
$4.5 billion into its Rio Colorado project in Argentina, and it
will be supplying the market with 11 million tons by 2017. BHP
Billiton Ltd. this month abandoned a $40 billion hostile bid for
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  EuroChem Struggles  By contrast, K+S struggled to make a partnership work with
Russia’s EuroChem, owned by  Andrei Melnichenko , who is also the
German company’s biggest shareholder.  “EuroChem said they want to lose no more time on their
project, while we would have liked to analyze the deposit more
thoroughly before getting started,” Steiner said as explanation
why a venture with the Russian fertilizer maker did not
materialize. He said there are no talks about other projects
with EuroChem.  With no scope for raising volumes, the potash price is the
only driver for the shares, said analyst Heine. After pushing
through three price increases to European customers this year,
the next raise may come as early as January.  The average selling price for potash at K+S was 265.80
euros per metric ton in the quarter ended Sept. 30, 1 percent
lower than in the second quarter. Until the first quarter, K+S
had suffered declining prices for six consecutive quarters.  “We are thinking about what prices we’ll call from the
beginning of January,” Steiner said, adding that recent price
increases of agricultural goods were supporting potash prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 