-- Kokusai Asset's Bond Fund, Asia's Biggest, Shrinks by Half as Yen Climbs
-- B y   M a k i k o   A s a i ,   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2010-11-22T08:46:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/kokusai-asset-s-bond-fund-asia-s-biggest-shrinks-by-half-as-yen-climbs.html
Kokusai Asset Management Co.’s
Global Sovereign Open Fund , Asia’s biggest bond fund, is nearing
the 3 trillion yen ($36 billion) level in total assets for the
first time in six years as the yen’s climb cut the value of its
overseas holdings.  The fund’s assets stood at 3.06 trillion yen as of Nov. 19,
down from 4.16 trillion yen at the beginning of this year and a
record 5.77 trillion yen in August 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The fund hasn’t been valued at less than
3 trillion yen since May 2004.  “Investment losses, including those related to the yen’s
appreciation, accounted for half of the asset declines while the
rest was caused by capital outflows,” said  Naomi Murakami , a
senior manager at Kokusai’s corporate-planning department.  Japanese asset managers are competing to attract investors
as the nation’s shrinking population and slowing economy prompt
households to seek higher returns. Kokusai’s fund pays a
 dividend  of 35 yen per 10,000 units every month, while a  rival 
fund by Nomura Asset Management Co. gives 140 yen.  Euro-denominated bonds accounted for the biggest portion,
or 27 percent, of Kokusai’s fund, followed by 22 percent for
U.S. debt as of Oct. 29, according to data from the company.
Kokusai does not use currency hedging for its bond fund.  The Global Sovereign Fund has fallen 6.2 percent this year
versus a 1.5 percent loss for similar funds, according to
Bloomberg data.  The yen has strengthened against all 16 major counterparts
this year as Europe’s sovereign crisis and slowdown signs in the
U.S. boosted demand for Japan’s currency as a refuge. The
currency reached 80.22 versus the dollar on Nov. 1, the
strongest since April 1995, when it climbed to a post-World War
II high of 79.75.  ‘No Surprise’  “It’s no surprise that the yen’s gains have been weighing
on the performance of foreign bonds without currency hedging,”
said  Satoshi Okumoto , a general manager in Tokyo at Fukoku
Mutual Life Insurance Co., which has the equivalent of about $65
billion in assets. “Foreign funds with currency hedging have
attracted money and have done relatively well since last year.”  Kazuya Sugiura , managing director at the fund-business
development division of PineBridge Investments Japan Co., said
last week the company’s 160 billion-yen bond fund is “supported
by those in the high-age bracket who prioritize regular incomes
from a fund.” The fund pays a 70 yen dividend per 10,000 units.  The average age of the fund’s customers “certainly”
exceeds 60, he said. The fund is Japan’s biggest that invests in
sovereign bonds in emerging economies without letting customers
choose in which currency to invest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Makiko Asai  in Tokyo at 
 masai@bloomberg.net ;
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  