-- Netflix Rises on Streaming-Only Plan, DVD Price Rise
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   S a r a h   R a b i l
-- 2010-11-22T21:23:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/netflix-shares-surge-on-streaming-only-program-option-dvd-price-increase.html
Netflix Inc. , the mail-order and
online movie-rental service, rose 8.8 percent after introducing
its first streaming-only subscription in the U.S. and raising
the price of DVD plans.  Netflix  advanced $15.28 to $188.32 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have more than
tripled this year.  The price increase lets Netflix pass on rising postage
costs and protect average revenue per customer as more
subscribers choose streaming only, which is more profitable.
 Justin Patterson , an analyst at Morgan Keegan & Co. who has an
“underperform” rating on Netflix shares, expects the company
to maintain gross margins in the 38 percent to 40 percent range.  “We are now primarily a streaming video company delivering
a wide selection of TV shows and films over the Internet,”
Chief Executive Officer  Reed Hastings  said today in a statement.  The streaming-only plan, priced at $7.99 a month, had been
tested in the U.S. after a similar option started in Canada two
months ago surpassed expectations, Los Gatos, California-based
Netflix said in the statement.  The subscription  price  for unlimited streaming and one
mail-order DVD at a time will increase to $9.99 a month from
$8.99, Netflix said. The cost to have more DVDs at a time will
also go up. The price change takes effect now for new customers
and in January for existing customers.  Online Programming  Netflix has bolstered its online programming to tap the
growing number of viewers who use Web-linked game consoles and
televisions to watch movies and TV shows. The company faces more
competition from premium cable networks like HBO and Showtime
and other online services. Last week Hulu LLC, the website owned
by three of the biggest U.S. broadcast networks, cut the price
of its paid service to $7.99 a month.  The price increases should help Netflix stabilize average
revenue per user as consumers switch to lower-priced plans from
ones that rise with the number of DVDs customers can have at one
time, according to  Edward Williams , an analyst at BMO Capital
Markets in New York.  “As the company acquires more streaming content, the
virtuous cycle should continue -- faster subscriber growth
leveraging the fixed content costs,” wrote Williams, who has a
“market perform”  rating  on the stock.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net 
 Cliff Edwards  in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  