-- Netflix Starts Streaming-Only Subscription in U.S.
-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l
-- 2010-11-22T14:34:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/netflix-starts-u-s-subscription-plan-for-streaming-movies.html
Netflix Inc. , the mail-order and
online movie-rental service, introduced its first streaming-only
subscription plan in the U.S. for customers to watch movies and
TV shows online for $7.99 a month.  The plan had been tested in the U.S. after a streaming-only
option started in Canada two months ago surpassed the company’s
expectations, Los Gatos, California-based Netflix said today in
a statement. The company is also boosting the price of
combination streaming and mail-order DVD plans.  Netflix has bolstered the amount of programming available
for streaming this year because subscribers now watch more on
computers and Internet-connected TVs than on its mail-order
DVDs. The company is facing increasing competition from premium
cable networks like HBO and Showtime. Last week Hulu LLC, the
video website owned by three of the biggest U.S. broadcast
networks, reduced the price of its paid service to $7.99 a
month, pitting it against Netflix’s offering.  “We are now primarily a streaming video company delivering
a wide selection of TV shows and films over the Internet,”
Netflix Chief Executive Officer  Reed Hastings  said today in the
statement.  Netflix also said the subscription cost for unlimited
streaming and unlimited DVDs by mail, one at a time, will
increase to $9.99 a month from $8.99. The cost for more DVDs at
a time will also go up. The price change takes effect now for
new customers and in January for existing customers.  Netflix  rose $9.83, or 5.7 percent, to $182.87 at 9:33 a.m.
New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares had more
than tripled this year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  