-- New Zealand Rating Outlook Revised to Negative by S&P, Snapping Kiwi Rally
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-11-22T06:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/new-zealand-rating-outlook-revised-to-negative-by-s-p-snapping-kiwi-rally.html
New Zealand’s credit-rating outlook
was lowered to negative by Standard & Poor’s, spurring traders
to buy protection on the nation’s debt and snapping a three-day
rally in its currency.  “The main risk to the ratings would be a significant
weakening in the credit quality of New Zealand’s banking
sector,” S&P said in a statement today. The South Pacific
nation’s AA+ rating, the second-highest grade, is the same level
as Hong Kong’s in the Asia-Pacific region.  New Zealand is in danger of a “prolonged” struggle to
recover from the global recession due to diminished demand for
its goods and services in the U.S., U.K. and Japan, central bank
Governor  Alan Bollard  said last week. S&P highlighted the danger
of a widening  current-account deficit  that leaves the country
increasingly dependent on foreign capital.  “It’s a very slow, fragile recovery,” said  Jarrod Kerr ,
director of rates strategy at Credit Suisse AG in Singapore.
“It’s just another warning shot for the government.”  New Zealand’s currency fell to 77.31 U.S. cents as of 5:07
p.m. in Sydney, having reached as high as 78.37 cents earlier
today, from 77.87 cents on Nov. 19 in New York. Credit-default
swaps on the nation’s debt jumped 8 basis points to 62.5 basis
points as of 4:23 p.m. in Wellington, according to National
Australia Bank Ltd. The increase is the biggest since May,
according to pricing data compiled by CMA.  New Zealand Bonds  New Zealand’s 10-year-bond yield rose 8 basis points to
5.74 percent as of 5:06 p.m. in Sydney, the highest level in six
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Longer-dated
New Zealand bonds are likely to underperform shorter-dated debt
“as the market builds more risk premium” into securities with
longer maturities, said Kerr.  Bollard said in a twice-yearly report this month that the
recovery has been “tepid” and household spending remains
constrained. In September, he lowered his 2010 growth forecast
to 2.6 percent from 3.1 percent and said the expansion will
probably be slower in 2011. Last month Bollard kept the
benchmark interest rate unchanged at 3 percent.  S&P said New Zealand’s current-account gap is forecast to
widen, and average 5.9 percent of gross domestic product over
the next three years, from 2.9 percent in the 12 months to June,
as the economy recovers.  “This implies further rises in New Zealand’s external
financing needs that are already among the highest of any
Standard & Poor’s-rated sovereign,” the company said today.  Government Reaction  Finance Minister  Bill English  said S&P’s move highlights
the need to reduce the nation’s reliance on foreign debt.  “This is a long-standing problem for New Zealand and has
left us vulnerable as a country,” he said in a statement. “The
government is taking steps to reduce this external vulnerability
and to move the economy towards savings and exports.”  New Zealand policy makers are looking to exports, which
make up 30 percent of the country’s $125 billion economy, to
boost growth as domestic spending and housing remain sluggish.
That strategy may be undermined by a strengthening exchange rate,
propelled by the gap in rates with other advanced economies as
the U.S. and Japan keep their benchmarks near zero percent.  The local currency, known at the kiwi, has appreciated 3.5
percent against the U.S. dollar the past month, the best
performer of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “It would be unlikely at this stage to see a full
downgrade as medium-term prospects remain positive through the
links with New Zealand’s largest trading partners,” including
Australia and emerging Asian economies, said Kerr.  Banking Vulnerability  The Reserve Bank of New Zealand said this month that the
reliance of the nation’s banking sector on short-term wholesale
funding from international markets was exposed as a ”key
vulnerability” amid the global credit freeze.  “A further weakening in the recovery has the potential to
generate further loan losses in the banking system,” the RBNZ
said. “House sales have stalled for the past six months, and
there are signs of prices falling again. Were this to be
accompanied by renewed weakness in the labor market, some
mortgage borrowers would find themselves in a position of
financial stress.”  New Zealand has 19 registered banks, according to the RBNZ,
and the biggest four are all units of Australian lenders.  S&P had raised the outlook on New Zealand’s rating to
stable from negative in May 2009 following the nation’s budget.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  