-- New Zealand Mine Rescuers Say `Hopes Fade' as Drilling Stalls
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-11-22T23:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/new-zealand-mine-officials-say-rescue-hopes-fade-as-robot-breaks-down.html
Hopes are fading for 29 men missing
in a New Zealand coal mine after hard rock delayed drilling and
a robot sent down the shaft to collect images and sample toxic
gases broke down, rescuers said.  No contact has been made with the men, aged from 17 to 62,
since a Nov. 19 explosion at the Pike River Coal Co. mine near
Greymouth on the nation’s South Island and listening devices
have picked up no trace of tapping, Police Superintendent Gary
Knowles told a news conference today.  “The longer it goes on, hopes fade,” Knowles told
reporters. “We have to be realistic.”  A 16-member rescue team is waiting for poisonous and
combustible gases to clear before beginning the search for
survivors, while a six-inch bore hole is about 20 meters (66
feet) short of breaking into a tunnel 162 meters below the
surface, officials said. The defense-force robot stalled part
way down the mine shaft and rescuers are trying to get a
replacement from New Zealand, Australia or the U.S.  “The levels of toxicity in the air are still too unstable
to send teams in,” Knowles said.  Pike River Chief Executive Officer  Peter Whittall  told the
news conference the drilling team has switched equipment and
hopes to penetrate the final layers of hard rock today. After a
fourth night waiting for news, it is getting very hard for the
families of the trapped men, he added.  The effort has prompted comparisons with the October rescue
of 33 miners in Chile, brought to the surface after being
trapped in a shaft more than 600 meters below the Atacama desert
for 70 days. More than 1 billion people watched live on
television networks around the world, Chile’s TVN reported, as
the 33 were each lifted to safety in a four-meter long capsule
in the world’s longest mine rescue.  Mix of Emotions  New Zealand’s Economic Development Minister  Gerry Brownlee 
said the relatives of the Pike River miners are going through a
mix of emotions.  “They range from complete despair to complete optimism,”
he said in an interview from Greymouth. “Everyone deals with
these things in their own way and the reality is that until
there is a decision about entering the mine, or they go in to
the mine and have a good look around, there’s every reason for
that optimism.”  Officials have refused to put the lives of the trapped men
and their rescuers at risk until they have evidence there won’t
be a second explosion  “If there is a source of ignition and methane, that’s what
causes a secondary explosion,” Pike River Chairman John Dow
told Television New Zealand today.  Gas Stream  Dow said analysts have found combustible elements in the
gas stream and must determine whether they are the result of
last week’s explosion or from a fire that may still be burning.  Greymouth Mayor Tony Kokshoorn said while the families
understand the risks, they are getting desperate.  “We need some eyes inside the tunnel,” he told Television
New Zealand.  Pike River began construction of the mine in September 2006
and exported its first coal in February, a year late after
problems with equipment and a rock fall in a ventilation shaft
in February 2009. The company went to investors for an extra
NZ$41 million ($32 million) in March last year and NZ$50 million
in April this year.  Prime Minister  John Key , who has visited the mine, told
reporters yesterday in Greymouth he expects there will be a
“series of inquiries” into the cause of the blast. “We will
need to ask ourselves some tough questions,” he said.  Mine Production  Pike River  is part-owned by India’s  Gujarat NRE Coke Ltd. 
and Saurashtra Fuels Pvt.  New Zealand Oil & Gas Ltd.  is the
biggest investor with a 30 percent stake.  The mine was forecast to produce 320,000 to 360,000 metric
tons of coal in the year through June, the company said Oct. 19.
That almost halved an April forecast because of delays with
drilling equipment and road construction.  Pike River  shares  slumped 14 percent to 61 Australian cents
in Sydney Nov. 19 before trading was halted. The company fell
4.4 percent to 88 New Zealand cents by the Wellington close. The
stock was suspended on both stock exchanges yesterday. New
Zealand Oil & Gas is also halted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Greymouth at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Johnson at 
 Ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  