-- Nobel Laureate Diamond Is Unqualified for Fed: Mark A. Calabria
-- B y   M a r k   A .   C a l a b r i a
-- 2010-11-22T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/nobel-winner-diamond-is-bad-choice-for-fed-commentary-by-mark-a-calabria.html
Peter Diamond , the Nobel Prize-
winning economist nominated for the Federal Reserve Board,
should be rejected by the Senate and sent home to Massachusetts.
There, where he is a professor at Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, he can do the least harm to U.S. monetary policy.  The Senate Banking Committee voted 16-7 last week to
recommend Diamond to the full chamber. The opposition came from
Republicans led by the panel’s ranking member, Senator  Richard Shelby  of Alabama. President  Barack Obama  nominated Diamond in
September after an initial bid to place him on the Fed board was
blocked in August in a procedural move.  The problem with this candidate is both legal and
political. By law, Diamond isn’t qualified to join the Fed’s
 board  with its current makeup, and his academic background isn’t
what the central bank needs right now.  According to Section 10-1 of the  Federal Reserve Act , the
next member of the Board of Governors may not come from a Fed
district that already has representation on the board. As both
common sense and his Senate  paperwork  confirm, Diamond is from
Massachusetts. So is Fed Governor  Dan Tarullo . Unless  Tarullo  is
resigning, Diamond is ineligible.  To get around this quandary, the White House says Diamond
is actually from Chicago. The basis of this claim is that he has
lectured at  Northwestern University . To believe that giving a
lecture at the school, located in Evanston, Illinois, makes one
“from” Chicago displays contempt for the law that is unique
even for this administration.  Diversity Goal  Since 1960, Diamond has resided in Massachusetts, except
for a few years at the  University of California at Berkeley .
There is no plausible reading of the law which should allow
Diamond’s candidacy to proceed.  Objecting to Diamond’s nomination on these grounds is no
mere technicality. It is rooted in the very substance of the
statute. The creators of the Federal Reserve System rejected a
structure based solely in Washington and run by technocrats. We
have 12 regional Fed banks for a good reason: so that voices
throughout the country can be heard in the conduct of monetary
policy.  With Diamond on the board, every single sitting Fed
governor will be from a coastal state, and a state won by Obama.
There is also only one governor,  Janet Yellen  of San Francisco,
from west of the Mississippi River. President Obama and Senate
Democrats aren’t remaking the board to include representation
from “flyover” states.  Faculty Club  Congress didn’t stop with regional considerations when
seeking balance in the creation of monetary policy. The law also
requires that the president’s choice of board members “have due
regard to a fair representation of the financial, agricultural,
industrial, and commercial interests, and geographical divisions
of the country.”  Interestingly enough, the Federal Reserve Act makes no
specific mention of adequate representation for academia. With
Diamond’s appointment, a majority of the governors will be
former academics. At best only one governor, Virginia banker
 Elizabeth Duke , has ever been in the position of having to make
a payroll.  The current board lacks any representation at all for
“agricultural, industrial, and commercial interests.” We have
gotten to the point where the Fed Board is entirely composed of
bankers and left-leaning academics. This isn’t a board that
Carter Glass, who wrote the 1913 Federal Reserve Act as chairman
of the House Committee on Banking and Currency, would even
recognize.  Not Science  There is an argument for having an academic, or at most
two, sit on the Board. After all, there is a considerable amount
of scholarly work on monetary theory. There also is considerable
disagreement among monetary scholars. And in spite of all the
self-congratulations that academics were giving one another
prior to the financial crisis, it is now obvious that monetary
economics is far from a reliable set of scientific guidelines.  What is sorely needed at the Fed is the perspective of
individuals who have actually worked in the real world. As
someone with a doctorate in economics, it pains me to say it,
but the last thing the Fed needs is another Ph.D. in economics.
The central bank has a staff of thousands of Ph.D.s.  It is hard to make the case that the shift toward packing
the Fed board with economists, orchestrated by Walter Heller
during his time as chairman of Kennedy’s Council of Economic
Advisors, has improved monetary policy. In fact, we largely had
price stability in the days when the Fed board lacked academics.  If anything, this era of a “scientific” Fed has been
characterized by rampant inflation. That shouldn’t be surprising
since it was academics who came up with the notion that you can
debase your way to prosperity.  Obama should find a Fed nominee that has actually run a
 business , resides in flyover country and understands the basic
values of thrift and hard work.  It is time for both the president and the Fed to take
seriously their responsibilities to represent all of our
country, and not just a sliver of coastal states. Maybe then we
can begin to redeem the central bank’s credibility with the
American public.  ( Mark A. Calabria , a former senior aide on the Senate
Banking Committee and assistant to Richard Shelby, the ranking
Republican on the panel, is director of financial regulation
studies at the Cato Institute.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Mark A. Calabria at  mcalabria@cato.org   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  