-- Nadal Rebounds to Defeat Andy Roddick at ATP Tennis Finals; Djokovic Wins
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-11-22T23:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/novak-djokovic-defeats-tomas-berdych-in-atp-s-world-tour-finals-in-london.html
Top-ranked  Rafael Nadal  came back
from a set behind to defeat former U.S. Open champion  Andy Roddick  in his first group match at tennis’s season-ending  ATP
World Tour Finals .  Nadal won 3-6, 7-6 (7-5), 6-4 at the O2 arena in east
London. The Spaniard, who failed to take a set in last year’s
event, was able to overcome poor serving that allowed Roddick to
break him early in the first two sets.  “Finally, I won a match,” Nadal, the reigning French
Open, Wimbledon and U.S. Open champion, said in a televised
interview immediately after he defeated the American with a
backhand winner.  Nadal double-faulted to give Roddick a 2-0 lead in the
first set that he wasn’t able to overcome. Roddick worked
quickly to keep Nadal off-stride, but by the final set, Nadal
was moving Roddick around the court.  “I started the match a little bit nervous, without
rhythm,” Nadal said.  In the other game today in Group A, U.S. Open finalist
 Novak Djokovic  defeated  Tomas Berdych , from the Czech Republic,
6-3, 6-3.  Nadal, playing in his first match in five weeks, struggled
against Roddick, who put him under pressure with serve-and-
volley. Roddick, the last American to win a major at the 2003
U.S. Open, raced to a 3-0 lead as he sent three consecutive
serves of more than 140 miles-per-hour past the world No. 1. He
took the first set as Nadal hit a backhand into the net for his
15th unforced error.  Rebound  Roddick seemed in control of the match in the second set as
he broke Nadal’s serve in the third game. The Spaniard, who has
had his most successful season, broke straight back for 2-2 as
Roddick double faulted and then produced a forehand error.  With play back on serve, Nadal started to find his timing
and reduced his error count. Forcing the 8th-ranked Roddick into
longer rallies from the baseline, the Majorcan lefthander won
the second-set tiebreak on his third set point as Roddick dumped
a forehand into the net.  With the crowd, including Australian pop star  Kylie Minogue , cheering for the Spaniard, Nadal broke Roddick’s serve
for a 3-2 lead in the final set with a cross-court backhand. He
won the match on his first match point with his 34th winner.
Roddick produced five fewer.  It was Nadal’s first match since he lost in the third round
of the Shanghai Masters in October to Austria’s Jurgen Melzer.
He had pulled out of the BNP Paribas Masters in Paris at the
start of this month with shoulder tendinitis.  Djokovic Wins  Djokovic, beaten by Berdych in the semifinals at the All
England Club, has now compiled a 27-6 match record on the men’s
tour after Wimbledon. He beat Grand Slam record-holder  Roger Federer  in the semifinals of the U.S. Open, saving two match
points. Djokovic lost in the final in New York to Nadal, who
became the youngest man since tennis turned professional in 1968
to win all four tennis majors at least once.  “I couldn’t ask for a better start of the tournament,”
Djokovic, who met with Argentina’s 1986 soccer World Cup-winning
captain  Diego Maradona  after the match, told a news conference.
“I’m really happy that I had a straight-set win in such a tough
tournament where every match is important, every set you win is
important.”  The sixth-ranked Berdych has struggled with his form since
he reached his first major championship final at  Wimbledon ,
where he lost to  Nadal . Since then, the Czech has had an
inconsistent season with an 8-13 record. He had 28 unforced
errors today, compared with 16 for the winner.  Federer, Murray Victories  The year-end tournament in London, won by Russia’s  Nikolay Davydenko  last year, has a round-robin format, with this
season’s eight best players divided into two groups of four.
Each player faces the other three in his group, with the top two
in each section moving into the knockout semifinals.  Federer and  Andy Murray  won their group matches yesterday.
Federer defeated Spain’s  David Ferrer  for the eleventh straight
time, 6-1, 6-4. The Swiss winner of a men’s record 16 majors is
trying to join  Ivan Lendl  and  Pete Sampras  as the only players
to have won the year-end championships five times. Murray beat
 Robin Soderling  of Sweden 6-2, 6-4 in the opening match of the
event in front of a sellout crowd of 17,500. The Scot will play
Federer tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at the 02 arena through the London sports desk
at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  