-- Novell to Be Bought by Attachmate for $2.2 Billion After Rejecting Elliott
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-11-22T21:13:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/novell-will-be-acquired-by-attachmate-for-2-2-billion-or-6-10-a-share.html
Novell Inc.  agreed to be bought by
 Attachmate Corp.  for $2.2 billion, ending an eighth-month
strategic review aimed at reviving the Linux software maker that
has struggled to sustain growth.  Novell investors will get $6.10 a share, Attachmate, a
software company owned by private-equity firms including Golden
Gate Capital Corp., said today in a statement. That’s 9.1
percent more than Novell’s closing price on Nov. 19. Novell will
also sell some intellectual-property assets to a group of
technology companies led by Microsoft Corp. for $450 million.  The company, which has reported sales declines for three of
the past four years, had trouble competing against larger rivals
such as Microsoft, said  Rich Williams , an analyst at Cross
Research. Novell started looking at strategic alternatives
including a sale after rejecting a $2 billion takeover offer in
March from shareholder Elliott Associates LP as inadequate.  “Management had struggled over the last few years to grow
the new businesses and that created an opportunity given all of
the cash from the balance sheet for financial bidders,” said
Livingston, New Jersey-based Williams, who  rates  Novell “hold”
and doesn’t own the stock. “The financially oriented buyers are
going to hold the company, reshape it to a degree and then in a
few years, in a more attractive environment, bring the company
public.”  Novell’s new products were too “underdeveloped” to
attract other technology companies as bidders, making it a
suitable target for financial buyers, Williams said. Seattle-
based Attachmate, whose owners also include Francisco Partners
and Thoma Bravo LLC, said Novell will complement a portfolio
that includes other technology assets.  Business Units  Novell, based in Waltham, Massachusetts,  rose  37 cents, or
6.6 percent, to $5.96 on the Nasdaq Stock Market at 4 p.m. New
York time. It has gained 44 percent this year.  The company, which also  competes  against Oracle Corp. and
BMC Software Inc., has said last year’s recession hurt customer
orders. The company had $1.04 billion in cash and short-term
investments at the end of the third quarter.  Novell makes Linux operating-system software, and its
business units also include identity and security management,
systems and resource management, workload management and its
GroupWise e-mail system.  The consortium led by Microsoft is acquiring 882 patents,
according to a regulatory filing. Microsoft declined to comment
on the asset purchase, said Tricia Payer, a spokeswoman for the
company. Novell Chief Executive Officer  Ron Hovsepian  also
declined to elaborate on which patents were sold.  Average Premium  As part of the deal, fund manager Elliott will become a
shareholder in Attachmate. New York-based Elliott was one of
several parties in a 2006 buyout of Metrologic Instruments Inc.,
a maker of bar-code scanners. Elliott helped fund the 2009
acquisition of MSC.Software Corp. by private-equity firm
Symphony Technology Group LLC.  The purchase price for Novell is 28 percent higher than the
company’s stock price before Elliott’s March bid. The average
premium acquirers offered for software companies in the past 12
months was 21 percent, with businesses that make software for
enterprises the most popular targets, according to a Bloomberg
analysis of more than 1,100 deals.  “Novell has a portfolio of valuable assets -- a legacy
business with strong cash flows, attractive technology,
extremely valuable intellectual property and a highly strategic
Linux business,” said  Jesse A. Cohn , portfolio manager at
Elliott. “We believed there was a greater value in the company
than the share price reflected.”  Novell, Suse Brands  Attachmate and Novell said they expect to complete the deal
in the first quarter. Attachmate will sell products under the
Novell and Suse Linux brands and hasn’t decided which products
will be continued and what will happen to all of Novell’s
employees, said  Jeff Hawn , chairman and CEO of Attachmate.  Novell will be required to pay $60 million to Attachmate if
it accepts a superior bid. If the deal falls through for certain
other reasons, Attachmate may have to pay Novell $120 million.  Credit Suisse and RBC Capital Markets are acting as the
financial advisers for Attachmate, and Jones Day is the legal
adviser. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher
& Flom LLP advised Novell.  Attachmate plans to use as much as $1.09 billion of debt
for the purchase. Credit Suisse Group AG, Royal Bank of Canada,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and the securities unit of Citadel LLC
agreed to provide the financing.  Private-Equity Deals  Private-equity firms pool money from investors to take over
companies, financing the purchases mostly with debt, with the
intention of selling them later for a profit.  Francisco Partners was part of a group of investors that
sold chipmaker Numonyx Holdings BV to Micron Technology Inc.,
the biggest U.S. producer of computer memory, for $1.34 billion
this year. Francisco Partners, based in San Francisco, invests
in technology companies and manages about $5 billion, according
to its  website .  Golden Gate Capital, also based in San Francisco, manages
$9 billion, according to its  website . Its deals include the
acquisition of Geac Computer Corp. for $794.2 million in 2006.  Thoma Bravo, which has offices in San Francisco and
Chicago, bought United Parcel Service Inc.’s UPS Logistics
Technologies unit for an undisclosed price last week. It
acquired SonicWall Inc., an Internet-security firm, for $484.9
million in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  