-- Tobacco Taxation May Provide Extra Source of Health-Care Funds
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2010-11-22T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/tobacco-taxation-may-provide-extra-source-of-health-care-funds-who-says.html
Raising taxes on tobacco and alcohol
and introducing a levy on foreign exchange transactions could
help pay for health-care for millions of people worldwide who
can’t get or afford it, the World Health Organization said.  Governments worldwide should also increase the proportion
of health-care costs they cover to reduce out-of-pocket expenses
for patients whose illnesses can subject them to “financial
catastrophe,” the Geneva-based agency said in its annual  World
Health Report  today. About 100 million people a year are pushed
into poverty because of health-care costs, the WHO said.  Aging populations, increasing rates of chronic disease such
as cancer and diabetes and more expensive treatments are driving
up health care costs globally, the WHO said. Raising more funds,
reducing direct payments and improving efficiency would save
millions of lives and keep millions more from poverty, it said.  “For many, health services just don’t exist, for others
they’re not affordable,” David Evans, the WHO’s director of
health systems financing, told reporters in a telephone
briefing. “You either choose not to use them, or you suffer
severe financial hardship for long periods of time because you
actually use them and pay for them.”  A 50 percent increase in tobacco excise taxes would
generate $1.4 billion in 22 low-income countries, and a levy of
0.005 percent on currency transactions in India alone could
raise about $370 million a year, the WHO said.  “So-called sin taxes have the advantage of raising funds
and improving health at the same time by reducing consumption of
harmful products such as tobacco or alcohol,” the WHO said.  Between 20 percent and 40 percent of health-care resources
globally are wasted through inefficiency, the WHO said.  “Paying too much when you purchase medicines is one of the
major causes,” Evans said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simeon Bennett  in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net 
 Dermot Doherty  in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net . 