-- Oddball Brendan Fraser Falls for Pregnant Drunk in `Elling': Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2010-11-22T03:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/oddball-fraser-falls-for-boozing-coolidge-in-elling-review.html
Political correctness suffers a
lively blow in the slight, endearing “ Elling ,” a Broadway
comedy starring  Brendan Fraser  and Denis O’Hare as mentally ill
roommates tentatively making their way in the world.  Elling (O’Hare) is a neatnik and prude whose agoraphobia
keeps him tied to his room. O’Hare, a master of the double take
and neurotic wince, pumps him with humanity.  Kjell (Fraser) is a slobby virginal simpleton. His friend
calls him an orangutan, a description Fraser charmingly
embraces.  These off-kilter Candides first meet their upstairs
neighbor, Reidun ( Jennifer Coolidge ), in the hallway. She’s
blacked out, drunk and extremely pregnant. She smokes, too,
right after regaining consciousness in the bed that Kjell and
Elling have gallantly brought her to.  A very funny romance ensues between Kjell and the equally
slovenly Reidun, who is gleefully oblivious to any social
conventions.  This would be little more than an extended, predictable
sitcom about cute crazies were it not for the utterly committed
performances by a company that includes  Richard Easton  as a
washed-up poet who befriends Elling and Jeremy Shamos as the
compassionate social worker who oversees the roommates.  Doug Hughes stages Simon Bent’s adaptation of the Norwegian
novels by Ingvar Ambjornsen with crisp simplicity. He’s aided by
Scott Pask’s unfussy, dormitory-like setting, Kenneth Posner’s
bright lighting and Catherine Zuber’s plain duds for the men and
hilariously de trop outfits for Reidun.  Through March 20, 2011 at the Barrymore Theatre, 243 W.
47th St. Information: +1-212-239-6200;
 http://www.telecharge.com . Rating: **1/2  ( Jeremy Gerard  is a theater critic and editor for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 