-- Tokyo Exchange Sees No Value in Taking Over Rivals For Growth, CEO Says
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2010-11-22T06:59:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/tokyo-exchange-sees-no-value-in-taking-over-rivals-ceo-says.html
Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc. 
President  Atsushi Saito  said he doesn’t plan any takeovers even
as Singapore Exchange Ltd.’s $8.3 billion bid for Australia’s
bourse fuels speculation of more mergers.  “We’re not thinking of any mergers or alliances with other
exchanges at present,” Saito, 71, said in an interview in Tokyo
on Nov. 18. The Tokyo bourse will instead focus on overseas
listings and improving trading speed, Saito said, adding that he
has “yet to see any successful deals.” He also said the
exchange is “not rushing” to publicly list its own shares.  Singapore Exchange plans to take over ASX Ltd. as global
rivals form alliances or buy stakes in each other to counter
rising competition from electronic bourses and meet investors’
demands to cut trading costs. The Tokyo bourse, currently vying
with China to be the world’s second-biggest by market value, may
be eclipsed as other exchanges lure more overseas companies.  “There might be something of a case for one-stop
shopping,” said  Nicholas Smith , director of equity research at
MF Global FXA Securities Ltd. in Tokyo. “If a company wants a
second listing, it would list where it wants to raise money and,
unlike in the old days, that really isn’t Japan anymore.”  Overseas Tie-Ups  The Tokyo Stock Exchange’s current ties with overseas
bourses include an alliance with the NYSE Euronext, the Tokyo
AIM joint venture with the London Stock Exchange Group Plc, and
a 4.9 percent stake in Singapore Exchange. The Tokyo bourse has
said it won’t oppose the city-state exchange’s deal with ASX.  Total  market value  in the Japanese exchange’s main section
has dropped 16 percent in the past five years to $3.73 trillion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with
China’s almost 10-fold increase to $3.68 trillion in market
capitalization, the data show.  Growth of a stock exchange hinges on the nation’s economic
state, rather than strategies to pursue acquisitions, Saito
said.  Japan’s economy is forecast to slow to 1.4 percent in 2011
from 3.1 percent this year, according to the median estimate of
11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The government last week
said a recovery is “pausing” and expansion will remain weak
“for a while.”  ‘Japan’s Heyday’  “In Japan’s heyday, the Tokyo Stock Exchange attracted
quality companies and a lot of investors because of the
magnificent economic outlook,” Saito said. “It’s more
important to determine how Japan can revive growth and how
companies will become more competitive in the global playing
field” to attract investors, he said.  The Tokyo bourse also won’t be able to go public in the
current fiscal year because it will probably report declines in
profit and revenue for the year ending March 31, Saito said. The
exchange posted a 24 percent drop in income before taxes to 7.3
billion yen ($87 million) for the six months ended Sept. 30.  “We’re not rushing to list because it’s not like we’re
desperately seeking capital,” Saito said, declining to
elaborate on the timing of the possible sale. “We shouldn’t be
going public in the current state of business: that would be
more harmful to investors. When it’s most appropriate, we will
go public.”  On Oct. 25, Singapore Exchange offered to buy ASX,
Australia’s main bourse, for A$8.4 billion ($8.3 billion) in a
cash and share transaction to compete with Hong Kong and Tokyo.
The combination would create the world’s fifth-largest listed
exchange company.  National Interests  The bid faces scrutiny from the Foreign Investment Review
Board, the Reserve Bank of Australia and the Australian
Securities and Investments Commission, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said
on Oct. 27. Lawmakers including Australian Greens party leader
Bob Brown have said they will block the proposed merger on
concern that it may hurt national interests.  To boost profit, the Tokyo exchange will continue to
improve the Arrowhead stock trading system, which cuts to five
milliseconds the time needed to process orders by speeding up
trades of index futures, Saito said. Increasing the listing of
exchange-traded-funds and luring more overseas companies to go
public on the exchange are also ways to improve earnings, he
said.  “We hope to have more listings next year than in 2010,”
Saito said, declining to give specific targets.  There were 96 ETFs traded on the exchange at the end of
October, up from 86 as of March 31, according to the bourse’s
 website . No foreign companies have gone public on the Tokyo
exchange since November 2007, according to the firm.  About 263 overseas companies, including Chinese firms from
the mainland, have raised HK$891.7 billion ($115 billion) on the
Hong Kong stock exchange since then, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Insider-Trading Problem  Saito also commented on recent criticism from investors
alleging insider trading involving shares of companies that plan
to raise capital with new issuances. He said the bourse will
urge regulators to shorten the time between companies announcing
and pricing share sales.  In Japan, there is a time-lag of weeks from the sale
announcement to when the shares are priced, compared with
several hours in the U.K., Saito said. Japanese regulators are
studying whether to revise rules to implement stricter oversight
on trading before and during share sales.  Tokyo Electric Power
Co.  and  Inpex Corp.  are among companies whose shares plunged
before stock-sale announcements or pricing this year.  “There is only so much that the Tokyo Stock Exchange alone
can do when it comes to implementing new rules, but the recent
insider-trading criticism is something we must resolve as soon
as possible,” Saito said. “Japan has its own unique financing
rules where the entire process takes too long, creating risks,
so I see that as one of the problems.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
 Shingo Kawamoto  in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  