-- Hong Kong Inflation Holds at 2.6%, Forecast to Accelerate as Rents Climb
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2010-11-22T08:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/hong-kong-inflation-holds-at-2-6-forecast-to-accelerate-as-rents-climb.html
Hong Kong’s inflation rate held
above 2 percent for a straight third month in October on higher
rents and food prices.  Consumer prices  increased 2.6 percent from a year earlier,
the same as in September, the city’s government said today on
its website. That was more than the median 2.4 percent estimate
of nine economists in a Bloomberg News  survey .  Hong Kong policy makers have blamed the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s plan to buy $600 billion of Treasury securities for
contributing to price pressures in the city, which maintains a
pegged exchange rate with the American currency. The government
earlier this month raised its full-year inflation forecast
because of a falling dollar and escalating global food costs.  “While a weakening currency exposes the highly import-
dependent Hong Kong economy to imported inflation, inflationary
pressures are also building on rising food and housing prices,”
 Joanne Yim , a Hong Kong-based economist at Hang Seng Bank Ltd.,
said before today’s report.  In an effort to avert a property boom and bust, officials
tightened lending standards in a Nov. 19 announcement that sent
the stock market tumbling today. The Hang Seng index fell 0.4
percent.  Li Ka-shing ’s Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd. fell the most
in six months, and Midland Holdings Ltd., the city’s largest
realtor, plunged the most in more than a decade.  Echo of China  Hong Kong’s inflation battle echoes that of China, where
the highest rate in two years has prompted Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s
government to threaten price controls and release stockpiles of
food reserves.  One-off government measures such as electricity subsidies
and waivers of property rates and public housing rentals might
have distorted Hong Kong’s inflation numbers. Excluding such
effects, inflation was 2.3 percent last month, compared with 2.2
percent in September, today’s report showed.  “Inflation in Hong Kong is likely to go up further in the
near term,” in part as prices climb across the region, the
government said in today’s release.  Hong Kong this month boosted its 2010 inflation estimate to
2.5 percent from an August forecast of 2.3 percent. Economic
growth that reached a 6.8 percent annual pace in the third
quarter has contributed to price pressures, the government said.  The International Monetary Fund said Nov. 18 that higher
rents will probably push up the city’s inflation rate to about 5
percent by the end of 2011. Private home rents rose 15 percent
in October from a year earlier, according to data from  Centaline
Property Agency Ltd.,  the city’s biggest privately held real-
estate broker.  Keeping Peg  Financial Secretary  John Tsang  said yesterday the city
won’t need to change its currency peg over rising risk of an
asset bubble. The city’s interest-rate decisions track those of
the U.S. because of the fixed exchange rate policy since 1983.
He said last week the Fed’s plan had “distorted the market
expectation regarding inflation.”  Three days ago, Tsang raised stamp duties and deposit
requirements, and limited mortgage insurance, the toughest
measures yet to rein in home values that soared 50 percent since
January 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  