-- Hong Kong Brokerages Back Shorter Lunch Break; Employees Oppose the Change
-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n   a n d   H a n n y   W a n
-- 2010-11-23T16:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/hong-kong-brokers-to-lose-two-hour-lunch-as-exchange-extends-trading-times.html
Hong Kong’s stock exchange, which is
cutting its two hour lunch break in half over two years, said a
majority of brokerages back the change, and their employees
oppose it.  In a  survey  released yesterday by  Hong Kong Exchanges &
Clearing Ltd. , 76 percent of the 101 corporate responses backed
an earlier start to afternoon trading with a shorter lunch
break. The 455 individual respondents were 80 percent opposed.  The operator of Asia’s third-biggest stock market said Nov.
22 it will cut the lunch break, in place since the company was
formed in 1986, to 90 minutes from March 7, and to one hour in
March 2012. The manner in which the decision was taken has been
criticized by some brokers as lacking transparency.  “There’s a lack of two-way discussion,” said  Steven Leung , director of institutional sales at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. “If
the result of the consultation had been released when they made
the announcement as supporting data, that would have been more
convincing.”  The change, seven years after a similar move was shelved
amid protests, will see the trading day extended to 5 1/2 hours
by 2012 from 4 hours now. Hong Kong is competing with Shanghai
to be the center for Chinese trading. Exchange Chief Executive
Officer  Charles Li , the bourse’s first mainland Chinese head,
plans to bring the first offerings of yuan-denominated shares to
investors outside the world’s second-biggest economy.  New Hours  After the changes Hong Kong’s stock market will open at
9:30 a.m., instead of 10 a.m., with a break at 12:30 p.m., and
the close at 4 p.m.  “There has been more support for a lunch break of one hour
but implementation in two phases would give the market time to
adapt,” said  Lorraine Chan , a spokeswoman for the exchange on
Nov. 22.  Of corporate respondents, 44 percent backed a 1 1/2-hour
break and 40 percent a one-hour break, according to the
consultation document released yesterday. Backing by individual
respondents was 5 percent and 24 percent respectively.  Hong Kong Exchanges ’ board approved the change after a
consultation with the industry that ended Oct. 29. More than
half the respondents to a separate survey by shareholder
activist and former exchange director  David Webb  said they
favored a one-hour break. Shanghai’s bourse is open from 9:30
a.m. to 3 p.m. with a 90-minute break from 11:30 a.m.  “This process has been conducted behind closed doors,”
said  Charles Crofton-Atkins , an executive director at BTIG Hong
Kong Ltd. “I don’t believe we have received any adequate
responses to the concerns raised during the consultation.”  Previous Attempt Abandoned  Even with the break sliced in half, Hong Kong will be among
a minority of developed-market exchanges that stops in the
middle of the trading day. The main bourses in the U.S., U.K.,
Australia and Germany -- where the trading day is 11 hours --all
operate without a break.  “Hong Kong is a trading hub for four times zones, from
Australia to India, and to compare it to Europe or America is
not comparing like for like,” said BTIG’s Crofton-Atkins.  Singapore is proposing to scrap its 90-minute adjournment,
and the Tokyo Stock Exchange may cut its break to an hour from
90 minutes.  Shares of  Hong Kong Exchanges , the world’s largest publicly
traded bourse operator by market value, soared 27 percent this
year through yesterday, compared with an advance of 4.7 percent
for the  Hang Seng Index.   ‘Good Move’  The longer day is “a good move because it can help the
Hong Kong market move more in line with the mainland China
market,” said  Kenny Tang , executive director at Redford Asset
Management Ltd. in Hong Kong. “The Hong Kong market in the
future is going to serve the mainland China market and provide
some synergies.”  Mainland stocks accounted for 46 percent of the HK$20.64
trillion ($2.66 trillion) capitalization of Hong Kong’s Main
Board at the end of October, exchange data shows, up from 16
percent in 1997, when the U.K. returned Hong Kong to China.  “They are trying to bring it closer in line with the
mainland trading hours,” said  Francis Lun , general manager at
Fulbright Securities in Hong Kong. “Hong Kong’s goal is to
become a center for yuan-denominated products and eventually A-
shares.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lynn Thomasson  in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 