-- Loonie Declines From One-Week High as Risk Aversion Cuts Demand for Crude
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-11-22T22:06:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/loonie-erases-gain-as-investor-risk-aversion-cuts-demand-for-commodities.html
Canada’s dollar fell from the
highest in almost a week versus its U.S. counterpart as a
renewal of risk aversion dimmed demand for assets tied to growth
such as stocks and crude oil, the nation’s largest export.  The currency rose as much as 0.5 percent, then reversed
that gain after Moody’s Investors Service said it may lower
Ireland’s credit rating by more than it previously anticipated.
Economists expect government reports tomorrow to show inflation
and retail sales increasing.  “Softer equities and commodities” are causing the
Canadian dollar to sell off,  Shane Enright , executive director
in Toronto at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC World
Markets unit, wrote in an e-mail. “The markets still have
European concerns, and that’s hurting the pro-risk bloc.”  The Canadian currency dropped 0.2 percent to C$1.0187 per
U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, compared with C$1.0168 on Nov.
19. It appreciated to as much as C$1.0122, the strongest level
since Nov. 16. One Canadian dollar buys 98.17 U.S. cents.  The Canadian dollar is “very comfortable between parity
and C$1.0350 right now,” Enright wrote. “I can’t see either
breaking in a hurry.”  Canada’s legal tender reached parity with the greenback on
Nov. 5 for the first time in three weeks and traded back and
forth through that level in the five sessions through Nov. 11.
Since then, the currency has lost 1.8 percent and is the worst
performer against the U.S. dollar’s 16 most-traded counterparts
except for the Korean won.  Crude Oil  The euro had reached a one-week high versus the greenback
after European Union finance ministers said the Irish aid deal
will create a capital fund for Ireland’s lenders. The MSCI World
Index of stocks advanced as much as 0.6 percent before falling
0.3 percent. Crude oil trimmed a 1.7 percent advance, trading
little changed at $81.60 a barrel.  “The early euro rally on Irish confirmation is not seeing
follow-through,”  Firas Askari , head currency trader in Toronto
at Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital unit, wrote in an e-mail.
“I still like the Canadian dollar on the crosses,” he wrote,
referring to trades involving non-U.S. dollar currencies.  The loonie, as Canada’s currency is known for the image of
the diving bird on the dollar coin, rose 0.1 percent to C$1.3883
versus the euro, the first advance in a week.  Canada’s consumer price  index , a measure of inflation, rose
at a 2.2 percent annual pace in October, from 1.9 percent in
September, according to the median estimate of 22 economists in
a Bloomberg survey. Statistics Canada is due to release the
report tomorrow at 7 a.m. in Ottawa.  Retail sales climbed 0.7 percent in September, compared
with 0.5 percent the month before, the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of 22 economists showed. The statistics agency
will release that report tomorrow at 8:30 a.m.  Government Bonds  Government debt rose, pushing the yield on Canada’s
benchmark 10-year bonds down six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 3.08 percent. The price of the 3.5 percent
security due in June 2020 gained 50 cents to C$103.43.  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said in a speech
today in Oakville, Ontario, the country needs to balance its
budget in order to protect the economic recovery. “I am
determined to see that happen,” Flaherty said. “We must get
our books back into the black to secure our recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  