-- More Voters Say Obama Doesn't Deserve Second Term in Office, Poll Finds
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2010-11-22T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/more-voters-say-obama-doesn-t-deserve-second-term-poll-finds.html
Almost half of voters say President
 Barack Obama  doesn’t deserve a second term, and he is in a
statistical tie with two top possible Republican challengers, a
 Quinnipiac University poll  shows.  By 49 percent to 43 percent, poll respondents say Obama
shouldn’t be re-elected in 2012. If a contest were held today
with Republican rival  Mitt Romney , the former Massachusetts
governor, Obama is supported by 44 percent of those surveyed and
Romney by 45 percent.  In a race with former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee ,
Obama garners 46 percent to Huckabee’s 44 percent. Obama does
the best in a race against former Alaska Governor  Sarah Palin ,
winning 48 percent to 40 percent. The poll has a margin of error
of plus or minus 2 percentage points.  Palin “is very unpopular among independents, and although
she recently said she thought she could defeat Obama, the data
does not now necessarily support that assertion,”  Peter Brown ,
assistant director of the Hamden, Connecticut-based Quinnipiac
University Polling Institute, said in a statement.  Palin responded “I believe so” when asked in an interview
with  Barbara Walters  of ABC News whether she could defeat Obama
in 2012. ABC has released portions of the interview, which is
scheduled for broadcast Dec. 9.  Democrats, by 64 percent to 27 percent, say they don’t want
another member of the party to challenge Obama in a primary
race.  Men Less Supportive  Obama’s support lags among men, with 39 percent saying he
should get a second term. Independents also disapprove, with
only 35 percent saying the president should be re-elected.  “His weakness among independent voters at this point makes
his 2012 election prospects uncertain,” Brown said.  Among the possible Republican contenders, Palin is viewed
most negatively, with more than 50 percent of voters saying they
have an unfavorable opinion of her. By comparison, 25 percent
have an unfavorable opinion of Huckabee and 26 percent of
Romney.  Newt Gingrich  of Georgia, the former Republican speaker
of the House, is viewed unfavorably by 43 percent.  Obama’s approval rating is split at 48 percent favorable
and 48 percent unfavorable.  The telephone poll, conducted Nov. 8-15, surveyed 2,424
registered voters nationwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 