-- Mortgage File Missteps Extend Past Securitization, Cantor Fitzgerald Says
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-11-22T17:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/mortgage-file-missteps-extend-past-securitization-cantor-fitzgerald-says.html
Banks seeking to clean up their
balance sheets by selling U.S.  mortgages  made during the real-
estate lending boom are encountering documentation problems,
Cantor Fitzgerald LP said.  In some cases faulty files are lowering loan prices or
extending the time it takes to complete sales, said  Jason Kopcak , the head of whole-loan trading at the New York-based
broker. Residential and commercial mortgages owned by banks
looking to sell often lack the papers required by buyers,
including documents needed to foreclose, Kopcak said.  “They were never looking to sell the assets,” Kopcak, who
advises banks on loan sales and handles the trades, said in an
Nov. 19 interview at Bloomberg News headquarters in New York.
“It wasn’t just securitizations, it was across the industry.”  U.S. lawmakers last week held two hearings on foreclosure
processes after loan servicers including Ally Financial Inc. and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  halted property seizures following
revelations of so-called robo-signing. The cases involved
employees signing affidavits without verifying their contents.  Bank acquisitions of other lenders are one reason for
incomplete files that may take as long as nine months to resolve
before loans can be sold, Kopcak said. About 2 percent of the
time, complete packages can’t be created, forcing the sales to
be conducted on an “as is” basis at lower prices, he said.  When loans have been securitized, professors and homeowner
attorneys including Shelby, North Carolina, bankruptcy litigator
 O. Max Gardner  III have argued that files can’t be augmented
after the securities were created.  The market for whole mortgages has been little affected by
 foreclosure  issues so far because loan sellers guarantee
complete files. Sales have been steady, with prices down about 1
cent or 2 cents on the dollar, because buyers are anticipating
increased document scrutiny will lead to longer liquidation
times, Kopcak said.  Banks stepped up sales of non-delinquent real-estate debt
in the past two months, seeking to appease regulators or equity
 investors  by cutting their concentrations in certain assets,
Kopcak said. In some cases the institutions are selling to other
banks willing to pay more than face value for mortgages that pay
on time, he said.  “That demand wasn’t there last year,” Kopcak said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net  and;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  