-- Pentagon Sees No Impact for Boeing, EADS After `Error' Shares Tanker Data
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-11-22T22:12:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/pentagon-sees-no-impact-for-boeing-eads-on-tanker-bid-error-.html
Boeing Co.  and  European Aeronautic,
Defence & Space Co.  shouldn’t see any significant fallout from a
 “clerical error” releasing some data on their bids for a $35
billion aerial tanker program, the U.S. Defense Department said.  The Pentagon agrees with the Air Force’s initial assessment
that the unintended sharing of some of the rivals’ information
won’t affect the selection of a winner for the new refueling
aircraft, Colonel  David Lapan , a spokesman, said today in an
interview.  The Air Force disclosed late Nov. 19 that the service
mistakenly provided Chicago-based Boeing and EADS with “a
limited amount” of data on the offers that are now under
government review. The winning bidder probably will be announced
in January, the Air Force has said.  “The department does believe that it was a ‘clerical’
error,” Lapan said. “We are certainly concerned with it, and
the Air Force is looking into it, but we don’t believe there
will be a significant impact.”  Deputy Defense Secretary  William Lynn  and Undersecretary
for Acquisition  Ashton Carter , the Pentagon’s top weapons buyer,
have been briefed on the mistake, Lapan said.  U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  in September 2009
restored the Air Force’s ability to manage the new competition
for tankers after taking away the service’s authority in 2008.  Boeing and EADS, which has headquarters in Paris and
Munich, are vying for a contract to replace 179 of the
Pentagon’s fleet of more than 500 KC-135 tankers. Those jets are
pivotal because the U.S. military depends on inflight refueling
to extend the range of combat and transport planes.  The Air Force responded “promptly” to its mistake with
the bid data,  Sean O’Keefe , chief executive officer for EADS’s
North American operations, told reporters today in Washington.
“It was clear it was an inadvertent release,” O’Keefe said.  The service asked last week for additional information from
EADS and Boeing, so “this process doesn’t look like it is
shutting down any time soon,” O’Keefe said. “They are refining
their assessments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  