-- MPG Office Names Weinstein CEO, Hires Restructuring Adviser to Reduce Debt
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2010-11-22T14:58:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/mpg-office-names-weinstein-ceo-hires-restructuring-adviser-to-reduce-debt.html
MPG Office Trust Inc. , the
California real estate company seeking to reduce debt, named
board member  David L. Weinstein  president and chief executive
officer and hired a restructuring adviser.  Weinstein replaces  Nelson Rising , who resigned earlier this
month over disagreements in strategy. The new CEO will lead the
restructuring of the company’s main downtown Los Angeles
properties and work with lenders and special servicers on its
loans, MPG said in a statement today.  MPG, formerly known as Maguire Properties, has been
reworking loans and selling buildings to reduce debt left over
from its  purchase  of 24 office properties and 11 development
sites from Blackstone Group LP at the market’s peak in 2007. The
first phase of its reorganization is “substantially complete,”
with the elimination of about $2 billion in debt and $150
million in loan guarantees, the Los Angeles-based company said.  Weinstein, a partner at New York-based real estate
investment firm Belvedere Capital, has been an independent
director since August 2008. He will remain on the board’s
finance committee and step down from the audit and the
nominating and corporate governance committees, MPG said.  MPG hired Atalon Management Group LLC, led by Frederick E.
Chin, to advise the company. Chin most recently led efforts to
restructure loans associated with Lake Las Vegas, a 3,600-acre
master-planned community in Henderson, Nevada, MPG said.  Shares of MPG have  tumbled  18 percent since the company
announced Rising’s departure on Nov. 11. The stock lost 7 cents,
or 2.9 percent, to $2.33 at 9:46 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hui-yong Yu  in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  