-- Polish Benchmark Interest Rate to Stay at Record-Low 3.5%, Survey Shows
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2010-11-22T15:41:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/polish-benchmark-rate-to-stay-at-record-low-3-5-survey-shows.html
Poland’s central bank will keep its
 benchmark interest rate  unchanged at a record low for a 17th
month on benign short-term inflation and wage pressures, a poll
showed.  The Monetary Policy Council, which began meeting today,
will leave the seven-day reference rate at 3.5 percent,
according to 21 of 23 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. A
decision will be announced in Warsaw at about noon tomorrow.  “A lack of wage pressures, low inflationary expectations
and the probable postponing of monetary policy tightening by
major central banks after the U.S. Federal Reserve started its
second phase of quantitative easing should provide arguments for
the dovish wing of the council,” said Pawel Kolski, an
economist at Warsaw-based BPH Bank.  Poland has kept its key rate unchanged since June 2009,
after cutting it a combined 2.5 percentage points to help avert
a recession similar to those sweeping Europe. The country, the
only EU member that managed to avoid a recession, will expand at
the rate of 3.5 percent this year, the second fastest pace of
growth this year after Slovakia’s 4.1 percent, according to a
Nov. 18 World Bank report.  Core inflation, which excludes food and fuel prices on
which domestic monetary policy has little influence, remained at
a 34-month low of 1.2 percent in October. Poland’s  inflation 
rate rose to 2.8 percent last month, breaching the central
bank’s 2.5 percent target rate for the first time since March.  Divided Council  Monetary policy makers were divided over whether the
economic expansion may “lead to a gradual rise in wage and
inflationary pressure in the medium term,” according to the
minutes from the last meeting on Oct. 27.  Some argued that the “persistently moderate” economic
expansion, low wage and demand pressures, and the risk of higher
inflows of capital to emerging economies justified keeping rates
unchanged. Higher borrowing costs also may strengthen the zloty
and curb growth, according to a central bank statement after the
last meeting.  The Federal Reserve said on Nov. 3 it will buy an
additional $600 billion of Treasuries through June, expanding
record stimulus to reduce unemployment and keep inflation from
dropping, while most central banks refrain from increasing
rates.  External Factors  “Even in the relatively strong Polish economy, there is an
output gap where private demand, and particularly private
investment, is still weak, and price pressures are essentially a
result of external factors, said Kaspar Richter, senior
economist at the World Bank, on Nov. 18. “So we share the
recent assessment of the central bank to put on hold rate
increases until price pressures are seen coming from inside.”  Third-quarter wages grew an annual 2.9 percent on the year,
slowing for a third consecutive quarter and indicating lack of
domestic demand.  The council shouldn’t hurry with a rate increase and may
keep the rate unchanged tomorrow,  Andrzej Bratkowski , seen by
analysts as a policy hawk, said in a Nov. 15 interview on TVN
CNBC.  Bratkowski had called for a preemptive increase in official
borrowing costs since early this year and voted for a 50 basis-
point rate increase in August, the most recent available vote
breakdown. Since then, central bankers have voted unsuccessfully
to pass a 50-basis point increase.  FRAs  Investors pared their bets that interest rates will rise
according to forward contracts. The one-month forward rate
agreement that traders use to wager on changes in borrowing
costs within a month rose to 3.97 percent, or 11 basis points
above  the 3-month Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate  at 3.86 percent.
The spread has halved since Bratkowski’s comment.  “The latest comment by Andrzej Bratkowski, a previous
proponent of rate hikes, suggests that the council may have to
refrain from hiking rates until further data are released,”
said  Jaroslaw Janecki , chief economist at Societe General in
Warsaw, who has only reversed his rate forecast to
“unchanged.”  The zloty dropped to 3.943 per euro at 3:45 p.m. from 3.933
before the core inflation report at 2:15 p.m. in Warsaw,
unchanged from 3.94 late on Nov. 19 and up from 3.978 on Oct.
28, following the previous rate meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dorota Bartyzel  in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  