-- Portugal Risk Rises After Irish Rescue on ‘Who’s Next?’ Concern
-- B y   B r y a n   K e o g h   a n d   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2010-11-22T12:58:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/portugal-credit-risk-increases-after-irish-rescue-on-who-s-next-concern.html
The cost of insuring against losses
on Portuguese government bonds climbed the most in almost two
months as traders look past the bailout of Ireland to which
country will be next to require assistance.  Credit-default swaps tied to Portuguese debt jumped 29.5
basis points to a one-week high of 447 basis points, the biggest
increase since Sept. 27, according to data provider CMA. The
contracts, which reached a record close of 478 basis points on
Nov. 11, have widened about 148 basis points in the past month.  The cost of Irish swaps rose following an earlier decline
as the government applied for a bailout to help fund itself and
save its banks, following  Greece  in seeking a rescue from the
European Union and the  International Monetary Fund . Investors
are now asking themselves “who’s next? Italy,  Spain  or
 Portugal ,”  Bill Blain , a strategist at Matrix Corporate Capital
LLP in  London , wrote in a client note.  “There is just too much skepticism about the prospects for
the euro,” he wrote. “Too many of the rough edges and
inconsistencies that lie at the heart of the European single
currency have been exposed.”  Credit-default swaps on Ireland climbed 1 basis point to
508 after earlier falling 28.5 basis points to the lowest level
since Oct. 29, while contracts on Greece climbed 36 basis points
to 1,004 basis points, CMA prices show. Italy increased 4 basis
points to 185.5, and Spain was up 7 at 267.  Ireland will channel some of the money from the EU and IMF
to lenders through a “contingent” capital fund, Irish Finance
Minister  Brian Lenihan  told reporters yesterday. The rest of the
package, which Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimates may total 95
billion euros ($130 billion), will help Ireland avoid selling
bonds.  Corporate Swaps  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50 companies with
mostly high-yield credit ratings fell 2.5 basis points to
454.25, according to Markit Group Ltd. The index is a benchmark
for the cost of protecting bonds against default and an increase
signals a deterioration in perceptions of  credit quality .  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings was little changed at 101 basis points,
Markit prices show.  A basis point on a credit-default swap contract protecting
10 million euros ($13.7 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bryan Keogh in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net ;
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  