-- Potash Corp. Plans New Debt Offering to Pay for $2 Billion Share Buyback
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2010-11-22T19:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/potash-plans-benchmark-offering-of-debt-in-two-part-transaction.html
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. ,
the world’s largest fertilizer company, plans to sell $1 billion
of debt to help pay for its planned stock buyback.  The bond offering, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based Potash’s
first in 14 months, includes $500 million each of 7- and 30-year
debt, according to a person familiar with the transaction.  Potash announced the plan to repurchase as much as $2
billion, or about 4.9 percent, of its outstanding shares last
week after BHP Billiton Ltd. withdrew a $40 billion offer to
acquire a controlling interest in the company. Standard &
Poor’s, which affirmed its A- rating on Potash after BHP
Billiton withdrew its takeover offer, lowered its outlook on the
company to negative in a Nov. 18 statement.  “The debt-financed share buyback will lead to a weaker-
than-expected financial risk profile for the rating, with credit
metrics not likely to come in line with the rating until year-
end 2011,” Jatinder Mall, an S&P analyst in Toronto, wrote in
the report.  Moody’s Investors Service affirmed its grade of Baa1, one
step lower than S&P’s rating, and said it had a positive outlook
on the company in a Nov. 19 report.  The offering comprises seven-year notes that may yield 122
basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries and 30-year
bonds that may pay a 152 basis-point spread, said the person,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  Use of Proceeds  Proceeds may be used for general corporate purposes,
including the stock repurchase program, Potash said in a filing
today with the Securities and Exchange Commission that didn’t
specify the size or timing of the offering.  Bank of America Corp., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan
Stanley, Royal Bank of Canada and Scotia Capital are managing
the sale, according to the SEC filing.  Potash will be required to buy back the bonds at 101 cents
on the dollar in the event that the company is acquired and
Moody’s and S&P cut their ratings below investment grade,
according to the filing.  The fertilizer company’s shares rose 2 cents to $140.27 at
1:56 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. BHP
Billiton offered $130 a share to acquire the company.  “The company’s stock is, amazingly, still trading above
the price of the dropped bid from BHP and clearly management
intends to take steps to keep it there, including this
leveraging share buyback,” wrote  Carol Levenson , director of
research at Gimme Credit LLC, in a note to clients today.  Potash last sold debt in September 2009, when it issued
$500 million of notes due in September 2015 and the same amount
of debt maturing in March 2020, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 