-- Gilts Gain as Moody's Irish Downgrade Alert Boosts Demand for Safer Assets
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2010-11-22T17:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/pound-gains-versus-dollar-as-ireland-aid-agreement-boosts-risk-appetite.html
U.K. government bonds rose as
Moody’s Investors Service said it may lower Ireland’s credit
rating by more than it previously anticipated, boosting demand
for the securities as a safe haven.  Moody’s said it would likely downgrade Ireland by several
levels on concerns the anticipated aid plan from the European
Union and the International Monetary Fund will boost the
country’s debt. The nation’s Green Party said it would quit the
government after the next budget, leaving Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  without a majority and facing the prospect of January
elections. German bunds gained, pushing the 10-year note yield
down five basis points. European and U.S. stocks declined.  “What the gilts are doing is tracking the bunds,” said
 Peter Schaffrik , head of European rates strategy at Royal Bank
of Canada Europe Ltd. in London. “Ireland’s got the government
collapsing, we’ve got figures coming out on how much is needed
for the banks, we have the Moody’s announcement and people are
saying maybe it’s not all as well as we thought initially.”  The yield on the 10-year gilt dropped five basis points to
3.33 percent at 5 p.m. in London after earlier trading near the
highest since July 29, according to Bloomberg generic data. The
two-year note yield fell five basis points to 1.03 percent.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  of stocks lost 0.7 percent,
reversing an earlier gain of as much as 0.8 percent.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  pledged
assistance of about 7 billion pounds ($11.3 billion) to help
Ireland shore up its finances. British banks have the world’s
largest quantity of Irish assets, totaling more than $222
billion at the end of the first quarter, according to the Bank
for International Settlements.  Gilts have returned 6.4 percent this year, compared with a
6.9 percent gain for German bonds and a 7.4 percent increase for
U.S. Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  The pound erased earlier gains to trade 0.3 percent lower
at $1.5930. It was little changed at 85.49 pence against the
euro. Sterling declined 0.7 percent against the common currency
last week.  The pound has declined 3.7 percent against a basket of its
developed-country peers this year, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, making it the third-
worst-performing currency, after the euro and Norwegian krone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucy Meakin  in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 