-- Progressive Upgraded, Allstate Cut to `Hold' in Sandler's `Winners-Losers'
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2010-11-22T20:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/progressive-upgraded-allstate-cut-to-hold-in-sandler-s-winners-losers-.html
Progressive Corp.  was raised and
 Allstate Corp.  was cut by Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP, as the
brokerage firm said there will be “winners and losers” in the
improving property casualty market.  Progressive, the fourth-largest U.S. auto insurer, was
raised to “buy” from “hold” by  Paul Newsome , an analyst at
Sandler. He cited strong third-quarter earnings and good
management at the Mayfield, Ohio-based insurer in his rating
change. No. 2 Allstate was cut to “hold” from “buy,” as
Newsome said that the company is “executing less effectively in
the United States.”  Allstate typically gets the largest portion of revenue from
auto insurance and sells most policies through agents.
Progressive increased Internet and phone sales after some
drivers shunned using agents in the U.S. insurance market that
has been in decline for most of the past three years.  Progressive “is an industry winner in a sector we think
will experience a divergence of performance,” Newsome said.  Progressive’s third-quarter profit of 37 cents a share met
the average estimate of 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg as
sales climbed. Northbrook, Illinois-based Allstate’s net income
was 83 cents a share, missing by 13 cents the average estimate
of 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Travelers Corp. , the insurer added to the Dow Jones
Industrial Average in 2009, was cut to “hold” from “buy.”
Newsome said prices for insurance sold to businesses, which have
fallen for the past four years, are expected to drop further in
the rest of 2010 and early 2011.  Progressive  advanced  16 cents to $20.92 at 2:57 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The insurer has climbed
16 percent since Dec. 31. Allstate  dropped  47 cents to $29.86
and is little changed this year. Travelers, based in New York,
dropped 50 cents to $54.99 and has climbed 10 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Doss  in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut in New York at 
 dkraut@bloomberg.net  