-- Prysmian Plans to Buy Draka For $1.16 Billion, Topping Nexans
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2010-11-22T11:21:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/prysmian-plans-to-buy-draka-for-1-16-billion-topping-rival-nexans-offer.html
Prysmian SpA  agreed to buy rival
Dutch cable maker  Draka Holding NV  for 840 million euros ($1.15
billion), topping a competing bid from Nexans SA.  The cash-and-shares offer from Prysmian, the world’s
second-biggest cable maker, values Amsterdam-based Draka at
17.20 euros per share, the companies said in a joint statement
today. That’s 25 percent higher than Draka’s closing price on
Oct. 13, when speculation of a Nexans bid began to circulate.  Nexans, the world’s largest cable maker, along with Milan-
based  Prysmian  and  General Cable Corp. , are seeking to increase
economies of scale and raw-material purchasing power to restore
 margins  hurt by a construction slump in Europe and the U.S. and
counter competition from  South Korean  rivals. Prysmian and Draka
ended a plan to merge in 2009 after failing to agree on terms.  “The Prysmian offer provides an attractive valuation and
represents a unique opportunity for Draka and its stakeholders
to preserve the company’s history, heritage and culture,” Draka
Chief Executive Officer  Frank Dorjee  said in the statement.  The boards of both companies have recommended the offer and
Flint Beheer NV, which owns 48.5 percent of Draka, gave an
irrevocable commitment to tender its shares.  Draka rose 9.3 percent to 16.87 euros at 11:44 a.m. in
Amsterdam. Prysmian fell 2.5 percent to 12.72 euros, while
Paris-based Nexans gained 2.2 percent to 53.30 euros.  Cost Savings  Prysmian will sell  new shares  to fund half of the purchase
of Draka and pay for the rest with available cash and credit
lines. The companies said that the deal will help save about 100
million euros annually within three years in areas including
staffing and procurement, with integration costs estimated at
170 million euros.  “The strong balance sheet of  Prysmian  and the industrial
rationale translate into a positive impact for the group,”
 Francesco Previtera , an analyst at Banca Akros, wrote in a note.
“It’s unlikely Nexans will launch a counterbid on Draka given
that a higher price will soften the value creation
opportunity.”  The bid, to be launched in the first quarter 2011 and
completed in the second quarter, would allow Prysmian to benefit
from Draka’s leading positions in optical fiber in Europe and
China, and in the global cables market for wind towers. The
Italian company would also become the main cable supplier to
planemaker Airbus SAS, and gain market share in energy cables.  Paris-based Nexans offered 15 euros a share for Draka last
month as it sought to increase its market share in Asia and
expand in energy-infrastructure cables. Rating company Standard
and Poor’s said Oct. 21 it may cut Nexans’s ‘BB+’ credit rating
because of the potential purchase.  Draka said in a separate statement today that it formally
rejected Nexans’s 731 million-euro bid after studying the offer
and other options.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maud van Gaal  in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francois de Beaupuy  in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net . 