-- Prysmian Offer for Draka Trumped by $1.4 Billion Offer From Tianjin Xinmao
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2010-11-22T14:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/prysmian-offer-for-draka-trumped-by-1-4-billion-offer-from-tianjin-xinmao.html
Dutch cable maker  Draka Holding NV 
received a 1 billion-euro ($1.37 billion) takeover offer from
China’s Tianjin Xinmao S&T Investment Corp., hours after
agreeing to be taken over by  Prysmian SpA  for 840 million euros.  Tianjin Xinmao S&T said in a statement that it’s offering
20.50 euros per ordinary share of Amsterdam-based Draka, 19
percent more than Prysmian’s bid. Tianjin Xinmao S&T is a unit
of Xinmao Group, which is active in fiber and cable
manufacturing, industrial real estate and wind energy, according
to the statement.  Tapping Xinmao’s access to the Chinese low and medium-
voltage cable market would allow Draka to become the global
leader in optical fiber and cable within three to five years,
Xinmao said. It would also make Draka a top three maker of
“specialty wire” and cables used in the car, aerospace and
equipment-making industries.  Milan-based Prysmian, the world’s second-biggest cable
maker, agreed earlier today to buy Draka for 17.20 euros a share
in a cash-and-stock offer, more than the 15-euro cash offer by
Paris-based Nexans SA that Draka rejected last month. Draka and
Prysmian said before the Xinmao bid that their boards
recommended the Italian offer. Investment company Flint Beheer,
which owns 48.5 percent of Draka, also committed to tendering
its shares.  Asia-Pacific  Xinmao “has submitted to Draka its intention to propose an
offer for the acquisition of all outstanding ordinary shares,”
the Tianjin, China-based company said. The deal would allow the
company to “increase the sales and marketing efforts in the
Asia-Pacific region, as well as establish new production
capability” in China.  Prysmian won’t consider raising its bid, Chief Executive
Officer  Valerio Battista  said on a call with analysts today. The
current offer “is fine,” he said.  Draka rose 26 percent to 19.39 euros at 3:40 p.m. in
Amsterdam. Prysmian fell 5.3 percent to 12.35 euros in Milan,
while Paris-based Nexans gained 4 percent to 54.23 euros.  “If we look at the counter-offer, it’s too early to
comment,” Draka CEO  Frank Dorjee  said on a conference call with
analysts.  “A higher bid is a higher bid,” Tijs Hollestelle, an
analyst at ING Groep NV, said in a phone interview. He expects
Flint Beheer to accept the new offer, adding that “from a
business point of view, a combination with Prysmian is more
attractive considering future synergies.”  Flint Beheer  Dorjee declined to comment on the “irrevocable” support
of Flint Beheer for the Prysmian offer. He confirmed “there’s
an agreement in place” between the  Fentener van Vlissing en
family, which owns Flint Beheer, and Prysmian.  No one at Amsterdam-based Flint Beheer was immediately
available to comment when contacted today.  “We hope to start talks with the company shortly to
further explain the press release we sent out,”  Joseph Krant ,
financial adviser to Xinmao at Catalyst Advisors in Amsterdam,
said in a phone interview.  Krant declined to comment on whether Xinmao would consider
a hostile bid for the Dutch cable maker. He also declined to say
whether there has been any contact with Flint Beheer.  Xinmao would maintain Draka’s “solid base in the
Netherlands for the foreseeable future,” and doesn’t foresee
“any material social consequences” as a result of its offer,
the Chinese company said.  New Shares  Prysmian said earlier today it plans to sell  new shares  to
fund half of the purchase of Draka and pay for the rest with
available cash and credit lines. Draka and Prysmian said the
deal would help save about 100 million euros annually within
three years in areas including staffing and procurement, with
integration costs estimated at 170 million euros.  Prysmian and Draka ended a plan to merge in 2009 after
failing to agree on terms.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maud van Gaal  in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francois de Beaupuy  in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net . 