-- Pummeled Education Stocks May Now Look Appealing: John Dorfman
-- B y   J o h n   D o r f m a n
-- 2010-11-22T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/pummeled-education-stocks-may-now-look-good-commentary-by-john-dorfman.html
Shares in companies that run for-
profit colleges have been smashed this year.  The industry will survive, but not all its members. An
 index  of 13 education companies has declined 32 percent this
year. These institutions may face reduced enrollments because
the federal government is tightening rules for student loans.
Yet some of the stocks have been punished too severely, I
believe.  Apollo Group Inc. , the largest education company in terms
of enrollment, appears attractive to me at the current price of
about $35 a share. The  stock  began this year at about $61, down
from more than $97 in 2004.  Phoenix-based Apollo includes the University of Phoenix
system, which has more than 538,000 alumni, according to the
company’s website. Its students attend classes online or in
sites around the country.  Apollo and its rivals face new federal regulations and
harsh criticism.  Critics say the for-profits recruit students willy-nilly to
snag tuition dollars, regardless of whether applicants have the
skills to handle the coursework.  Most student loans are issued by private companies but
guaranteed by the federal government. That means the U.S.
Treasury is left holding the bill if schools don’t prepare their
graduates to find a job and repay their loans.  Loan Payback  The loan repayment rate is only 36 percent for for-profit
colleges compared with 54 percent at public universities and 56
percent at private nonprofit schools, according to an analysis
of U.S. Education Department data by the  Institute for College
Access and Success , a nonprofit research group.  The repayment rate is basically the percentage of former
students who are up to date in making interest payments on their
loans and are also paying down at least part of the principal.  The  default rate  -- the number of people who gave up on
paying their loans, forcing the federal government to reimburse
the lenders -- was 7 percent in fiscal year 2008. The rate was
about 4 percent for students of private nonprofits, 6 percent
for alumni of public institutions and 11 percent for people who
attended for-profit colleges, according to the Education
Department.  The for-profits say their higher default rates result
because they serve a higher percentage of students from poor
backgrounds, belong to minority groups or have parents who never
attended college.  The for-profits have a point there, but whether they were
greedy doesn’t matter anymore. We are now entering an era of
tighter government spending, and there likely will be less
tolerance for tardy repayments or defaults on student loans.  Revising the Rules  New rules may come from the Education Department, Congress
or both.  Last summer the department  proposed  denying federally
guaranteed loans to students who plan to attend a for-profit
program with a repayment rate of less than 35 percent. The rules
would also impose enrollment growth restrictions on for-profit
schools with repayment rates of 45 percent or less.  Colleges could also maintain their loan eligibility by
demonstrating that graduates met certain debt-to-earnings
ratios.  Congressional Hearings  Congress will hold hearings early next year, and I believe
a bill will pass that resembles the Education Department’s
proposal.  My judgment -- based on cobbling together figures from news
reports, government statistics and brokerage-house reports -- is
that Apollo already exceeds the 35 percent repayment rate
standard and can get to the 45 percent level pretty easily.  By contrast, some competitors may have a hard time living
up to the new standards. For example, I would avoid  Corinthian
Colleges Inc. ’s stock.  Corinthian , based in Santa Ana, California, says it
operates 100 schools in the U.S. and 17 in Canada. In my
opinion, it will have a difficult time consistently exceeding
the 35 percent threshold. Investors may be thinking the same
thing: Corinthian shares are down 66 percent this year.  Corinthian also has another problem. On Nov. 2 it said
students may have to pay higher tuition prices because “a
substantial percentage” of its colleges may be in violation of
an existing federal rule that limits federal student aid to no
more than 90 percent of a college’s revenue.  More Problems  Complicating matters, the new rules would probably apply to
specific programs at an institution, not necessarily to the
institution as a whole.  Career Education Corp ., based in Hoffman
Estates, Illinois, said in August that its culinary and art-and-
design courses “would be more impacted” than its health and
university segments.  Career Education as of Sept. 30 had $284 million in cash
and equivalents and $159 million in short-term investments. This
hoard may help it pay for, and withstand, the transitions ahead.  Apollo Group has almost $1.3 billion in cash and
equivalents.  Another for-profit I like is  DeVry Inc. , with headquarters
in Downers Grove, Illinois. It has a strong reputation in
health-care and professional-development courses. The company
says that 90 percent of its graduates find jobs in their chosen
fields.  DeVry has been public since 1991, has no debt, and has
about $451 million in cash and equivalents. At 11 times
earnings, the stock is more expensive than some peers, but
within my comfort zone.  Disclosure note: I have no long or short positions for
myself or for clients in any of the stocks discussed in this
article.  ( John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in Boston,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  