-- Qantas to Resume Airbus A380 Flights From Nov. 27 After Engine Explosion
-- B y   C h a n   S u e   L i n g   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-11-23T05:57:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/qantas-to-resume-airbus-a380-flights-from-nov-27-after-engine-explosion.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. , Australia’s
biggest carrier, will resume Airbus SAS A380 services on Nov.
27, 23 days after grounding its fleet of superjumbos following a
mid-flight engine explosion.  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Joyce  will be on the first
flight, which will go to London from Sydney via Singapore, he
said at a media briefing today. The carrier will conduct further
inspections with Airbus, regulators and engine-maker  Rolls-Royce
Group Plc  before resuming other routes, it said in a statement.  Qantas has begun modifying as many as 16 Trent 900 engines
following the Nov. 4 blowout that caused the grounding of A380s
representing about 17 percent of its international capacity.
Demand to fly on the airline’s six superjumbos is likely to
withstand the explosion, said  Jason Teh , who helps manage A$3
billion ($3 billion) at Investors Mutual Ltd. in Sydney.  “It’s like if there was a shark attack in the previous
week -- it wouldn’t stop me going into the water the following
week as long the shark is caught,” he said. “You assume that
all airlines will meet strict safety standards.”  The carrier will have four  450-seat  A380s in service before
Dec. 25, including two new ones, Joyce said. The airline is also
due to receive two superjumbos next year. Qantas had been flying
its A380s on long-haul routes to Europe and North America.  ‘It’s So Quiet’  “If the airline has made the assessment that it’s time to
fly, then I would be on that aircraft,” said  Binit Somaia , an
analyst at the Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation in Sydney. “I
would rather fly the A380 anytime. It’s so quiet.”  The carrier has taken the 16 engines identified as having
“a bigger likelihood of having a problem” out of service,
Joyce said. Any necessary changes will be made before they are
put back onto planes, he said.  Joyce said it is too early to estimate the cost of the
disruption caused by grounding the A380s or to comment on
whether the carrier will seek compensation.  Macquarie Group Ltd. said in a note that the cost would
likely be about A$20 million as Sydney-based Qantas “generally
minimized the disruption.” The carrier used Boeing Co. 747s and
other aircraft as substitutes while the A380s were grounded.  Qantas  rose 0.4 percent to A$2.64 at the 4:10 p.m. market
close in Sydney. The stock has lost 8 percent since Nov. 3.
 Rolls-Royce  slumped 9.8 percent in London trading in the period.  Emergency Landing  Qantas, which has never had a fatal jet accident, grounded
its superjumbos after one of the four Trent 900 engines fitted
to an A380 exploded in the skies above Indonesia. The plane made
an emergency landing in Singapore, with the rear covering of an
engine blown off and a wing damaged by shrapnel. None of the 466
people onboard were injured.  The blast, which Rolls-Royce said was caused by an oil
fire, prompted the  European Aviation Safety Agency  to issue an
airworthiness directive to A380 operators with Trent 900 engines
requiring them to inspect turbines at regular intervals.  Singapore Airlines Ltd. , with 11 Trent 900-powered A380s in
its fleet, has replaced three engines. Deutsche Lufthansa AG,
the only other Trent 900 operator, announced plans for its
second swap last week. About 40 Trent 900s worldwide may need
repairs to replace a faulty part, Qantas’s Joyce said Nov. 18.  Emirates Airline, the largest customer for the A380, and
Air France-KLM Group fly superjumbos fitted with engines from a
General Electric Co. and Pratt & Whitney venture.  Rolls-Royce, the world’s second-largest maker of engines,
has said it will miss its 2010 profit target because of the
Trent 900 blowout.  Airbus, which is due to hand over more than 20 A380s next
year, has said deliveries may be disrupted as it works with
Rolls-Royce to help existing customers replace engines. The
planemaker plans to press the London-based engine-maker for
compensation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chan Sue Ling  in Singapore 
 slchan@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  