-- QTel, Princesse to Buy Orascom’s Tunisiana Stake
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-11-22T12:31:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/qatar-telecom-unit-princesse-to-buy-50-tunisiana-stake-for-1-2-billion.html
Qatar Telecom QSC , the country’s
largest company, and Princesse Holding of Tunisia agreed to buy
Orascom Telecom Holding’s 50 percent stake in Tunisiana for $1.2
billion, enabling the Egyptian company to cut debt.  Qatar Telecom, which is looking to expand outside its home
market, said in an e-mailed statement today its unit Wataniya
Telecom signed an accord with a group led by holding company
Princesse to buy the stake. Wataniya already holds 50 percent of
Telecom Tunisie, or Tunisiana, as the North African nation’s
biggest private telecommunications company is called.  The deal will allow Orascom Telecom to cut debt ahead of a
planned $6.5 billion merger between its parent company Weather
Investments SpA and Russia’s  VimpelCom Ltd.  to create the
world’s fifth-largest mobile-phone company by subscribers.
Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris -controlled Weather and
VimpleCom said today that they support the Tunisian deal.  “It was not Tunisia that VimpelCom was seeking out of the
deal with Weather,” said  Alexander Kazbegi , equity analyst at
Moscow-based investment bank Renaissance Capital. “I don’t
think it will make it (the VimpelCom-Weather deal) less
attractive. Sawiris clearly bought some time. He gets cash now.”  Orascom Telecom  rose as much as 5 percent in Cairo trading
and was 2 percent higher at 4.5 Egyptian pounds as of 11:27
a.m., valuing the company at 23.6 billion pounds ($4.1 billion).
 Qtel stock  fell 0.1 percent to 182.3 riyals at 12:26 in Doha.  Some analysts said the deal enhances Sawiris’s position by
showing that he can do deals outside the VimpelCom transaction.  Better Deal  Sawiris “is really trying here to create an alternative to
the VimpelCom deal,” said  Dalibor Vavruska , an analyst at ING
Groep in London. Sawiris may consider whether it’s better to
sell assets “patiently, one by one.”  Orascom is selling the Tunisian holding at a multiple of
6.7 times 2009 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortisation, higher than the 6.2 multiple for VimpelCom deal,
Vavruska said. The numbers were confirmed by VimpelCom.  “Disposal of assets where VimpelCom has the potential to
end up with limited control is in line with our strategy,” said
 Elena Prokhorova , a spokeswoman for Vimpelcom. “In the case of
Orascom’s Tunisian operations, there was no clear path to gain
full operational control.”  Manal Abdel-Hamid, spokesperson for Orascom, couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  Cutting Debt  Proceeds from the sale will be used to repay Orascom
Telecom’s borrowings, reducing the amount of debt that will need
to be refinanced by VimpelCom, Weather Investments and VimpelCom
said in a release today.  Sawiris’s Wind Telecommunicazioni SpA had net debt of 8.29
billion euros ($11.4 billion) as of June 30, while Orascom
Telecom had $4.61 billion.  Increased competition at home is driving Middle Eastern
telephone companies such as Qtel and Emirates Telecommunications
Corp., or  Etisalat , of the United Arab Emirates to expand into
markets in Asia and Africa. In September, Etisalat, offered to
buy a controlling stake in Kuwait’s Zain for about $11 billion.  “Wataniya will finance its portion of the transaction with
a mixture of existing cash and debt, and now will control the
board and management of Tunisiana,” according to Qtel.  The existing management of Tunisiana will be left in place,
a Qtel spokesman said, declining to be identified, in line with
company policy. BNP Paribas SA and Standard Chartered advised
Qtel, he said.  ‘Growth Opportunities’  “Qtel has a strategy of trying to increase its stake in
subsidiaries where it sees strong growth opportunities,” said
 Akber Khan , director at Al Rayan Investment in Doha. “Tunisiana
is the market leader in a growing market with steady profits so
strategically this is a good transaction.”  Tunisiana had more than 5.7 million subscribers at the end
of September, Qtel said. It has more than 50 percent of
Tunisia’s market, according to  the Tunisian company’s website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Browning  at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net ;
Vidya Root at  vroot@bloomberg. net 