-- QR National Rises on Trading Debut After Largest Australia IPO in 13 Years
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-11-22T07:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/qr-national-climbs-on-trading-debut-after-australia-s-second-largest-ipo.html
QR National Ltd., Australia’s
biggest rail-freight company, gained on its Sydney trading debut
after raising A$4.05 billion ($4 billion) in the nation’s
largest initial public offering in 13 years.  The coal-train operator, sold off by Queensland state, rose
3.9 percent to A$2.65 at the 4:10 p.m. close of trading in
Sydney. Institutions paid A$2.55 in the IPO, near the bottom of
the A$2.50 to A$3 price range.  Pension and equity funds and other large investors may buy
shares in anticipation of the rail company joining equity
indexes, said  Chris Weston , an institutional dealer at IG
Markets in Melbourne. QR National’s market value of A$6.5
billion would place it among the 40 largest stocks in the
benchmark  S&P/ASX 200  index, ahead of Qantas Airways Ltd.  “There is certainly a large element of today’s volume
being driven by fund managers buying to top up their
allocation,” Weston said. “There is also an element of more
cautious investors who simply wanted to see how the float went
before buying.”  Queensland will retain as much as 40 percent of the stock
after selling 1.6 billion shares in the IPO. The state,
Australia’s third-most populous, also received an A$80 million
dividend and A$500 million for a debt facility arranged by the
rail operator, Treasurer  Andrew Fraser  said in Brisbane two days
ago.  IPOs Scrapped  “We are well-positioned,” Chief Executive Officer  Lance Hockridge  said on a conference call today. “It is going to be a
growth company as a result of the markets we serve.”  Retail investors bought 34 percent of the shares and
institutional investors 66 percent, the government said. Retail
investors received a 10-cent discount, meaning they paid A$2.45
a share.  After the government stake, the biggest investor in QR
National is Children’s Investment Fund Management U.K. LLP with
about 6.1 percent, according to a filing today.  Completion of the QR National IPO follows at least two
aborted Australian initial share sales in the past six months.  Bilfinger Berger AG, Germany’s second-largest construction
company, pulled the A$1.39 billion initial public offering of
its Australian unit Valemus Ltd. in July, and Karoon Gas
Australia Ltd., an oil and gas explorer, canceled a Brazilian
offering last week, citing an unfavorable market.  Shares of department-store operator  Myer Holdings Ltd. ,
which raised A$2.1 billion in 2009, trade below their offer
price.  Asset Sales  Queensland is targeting A$15 billion from asset sales to
replace lost revenue and regain its AAA credit rating. The state
government said it will sell down its residual stake after the
rail company’s 2012 results.  “These proceeds will now be used to pay off debt and
establish a stronger balance sheet,” Premier  Anna Bligh  said in
a Nov. 20 e-mailed statement. “Now is the right time for QR
National to be backed by private investment.”  The Australian government sold one-third of Telstra Corp.
for A$14.3 billion in 1997, the nation’s biggest public share
sale.  Brisbane-based QR National  operates  700 locomotives, 16,000
freight cars and 2,300 kilometers (1,430 miles) of track across
Australia, according to a share-sale document.  Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch & Co. unit, Credit
Suisse Group AG, Goldman Sachs & Partners Australia Pty, Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc and UBS AG are the QR National offer
managers.  The company expects earnings to surge 75 percent in the
next two years as coal shipments rise and mining companies
expand projects.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization are set to increase 42 percent to A$894 million in
the 12 months ending June 2011, the company said in the IPO
prospectus on Oct. 11. Earnings may rise 23 percent the
following year, the document showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  