-- Quadrangle Said to End New Investing, Focus on Overseeing Current Assets
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2010-11-22T17:40:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/quadrangle-is-said-to-hold-off-on-new-funds-after-rattner-s-sec-settlement.html
Quadrangle Group LLC, the private-
equity firm co-founded by  Steven Rattner , doesn’t plan to raise
a new fund and will focus instead on overseeing existing
holdings, according to a person briefed on the plans.  The firm, whose founder Rattner was the subject of state
and federal investigations of corruption at New York state’s
pension fund, is weighing whether to release investors from
existing commitments or use the money for follow-up investments,
according to the person, who declined to be named because the
firm is private.  The latest fund, named Quadrangle Capital Partners II, ends
its five-year investment period this year and the firm may sell
a minority stake, the person said. Rattner, who left Quadrangle
in February 2009, agreed on Nov. 18 to pay $6.2 million and
accept a two-year ban from associating with broker-dealers or
investment advisers to resolve a Securities and Exchange
Commission probe of kickbacks in connection with the New York
state pension fund.  The New York Post earlier today reported Quadrangle’s plans
to wind down its operations and recast itself in a different
format under a new name. The firm is based in New York.  Quadrangle spokesman Andy Merrill declined to comment.  Rattner accused Quadrangle of trying to shift
responsibility to him after settling investigations. Quadrangle
settled with Cuomo and the SEC in April. Rattner filed a
petition Nov. 19 in New York State Supreme Court to obtain
documents and testimony for an undisclosed arbitration
proceeding he brought Sept. 2 against Quadrangle.  Cuomo on Nov. 18 separately sued Rattner, seeking at least
$26 million and an immediate lifetime ban on him working in the
securities industry in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  