-- Treasuries Rally as Moody's Ireland Outlook Spurs Demand for Safest Assets
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-11-22T22:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/treasuries-decline-as-ireland-bailout-plan-eases-europe-contagion-concern.html
Treasuries rose, pushing down the
10-year note yield down the most in almost a week, after Moody’s
Investors Service said it may downgrade Ireland’s debt by more
than anticipated, increasing demand for the relative safety of
U.S. government securities.  Moody’s Investors Service said it may make a multi-notch
cut in Ireland’s credit rating as the aid plan from the European
Union and the International Monetary Fund threatens to boost the
country’s debt. The Federal Reserve bought $8.3 billion of
Treasuries as part of an asset-purchase program aimed at
stimulating economic growth. Two-year notes yields fell after
higher-than-average bidding at a $35 billion auction of the
securities as part of $99 billion of note sales this week.  “The market has responded cautiously to the financial
support for Ireland and that is being reflected in the stock
market and the flow into Treasuries,” said  Ward McCarthy , chief
financial economist at Jefferies Group Inc. in New York.
Jefferies is one of 18 primary dealers required to bid at
Treasury auctions. “It’s like a never-ending piece of
spaghetti. Nothing so far has addressed the root of these
problems in any one of these countries.”  The  yield  on the 10-year note fell seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 2.8 percent at 5:02 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 2.625
percent security maturing in November 2020 gained 19/32, or
$5.94 per $1,000 face value, to 98 14/32.  Note Sale  Two-year  note yields  fell four basis points to 0.47
percent, the lowest since Nov. 12. The yield on the 30-year bond
decreased four basis points to 4.21 percent after touching 4.17
percent, the lowest since Nov. 9.  “The two-year auction went very well, with yields at
these very high levels,” said  Rohit Garg , an interest-rate
strategist in New York at BNP Paribas SA, a primary dealer.
“The demand for Treasuries in general looks to be good with
yields at very favorable levels and the Fed’s program’s in
place, despite sell-offs of late.”  The Treasury will sell $35 billion in five-year notes
tomorrow and $29 billion of seven-year securities on Nov. 24.  The Fed tomorrow will purchase debt maturing from July 2012
to February 2040. The Fed pledged on Nov. 3 to buy $600 billion
in debt through June to spur growth and inflation while
overnight rates will stay locked at almost zero.  Inflation Watch  Morgan Stanley has moved to “overweight” on Treasury
inflation linked securities from a previous “underweight”
position, according toa research note by  Jeff Applegate , chief
investment officer at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, which
oversees $1.5 trillion in New York.  “QE2 and its potential effects on future inflation
expectations and commodity prices could create an environment
whereby inflation-linked securities outperform their nominal
brethren,” the note said.  Ireland’s aid will “crystallize more bank-contingent
liabilities on the government balance sheet, and increase the
Irish sovereign’s debt burden,” Frankfurt-based Moody’s analyst
 Dietmar Hornung  said in an e-mailed note today. Increases in
state debt “being discussed exceed the expectation we had in
October when we put Ireland’s Aa2 rating on review for
downgrade. A multi-notch downgrade” is “now the most likely
outcome.”  Irish Aid  Ireland yesterday became the second euro-region state to
ask for external aid after surging costs to bail out the
country’s banks pushed up the budget deficit and eroded investor
confidence. The package may total as much as 95 billion euros
($129 billion), further boosting government debt, Moody’s said.  Ireland’s bid for financial aid yesterday prompted Prime
Minister  Brian Cowen  to call elections after support for his
government unraveled. Cowen made the announcement after the
Green Party said it would pull out of his coalition. He said the
vote will come early next year after passage of a 2011 budget.  The two-year note auction drew a  yield  of 0.52 percent,
compared with a forecast of 0.539 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey of seven of the Federal Reserve’s primary dealers. The
bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids
with the amount of securities offered, was 3.7, compared with an
average of 3.253 for the previous 10 sales.  Two-year Treasury notes have outperformed longer-dated
counterparts this month, handing investors a 0.3 percent loss
this month, compared with a 4 percent drop for 30-year bonds,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  “The key this week will be the auctions given the
struggles of recent auctions and the shortened week,” said
 Larry Milstein , managing director in New York of government and
agency debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income
broker and dealer for institutional investors. “The long end
has found a comfort level in the market as the Fed came out and
strongly committed to the QE2 program.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net . 