-- Treasuries Decline as Ireland Rescue Plan Eases Europe Contagion Concern
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-11-22T08:27:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/treasury-notes-fall-as-ireland-s-request-for-aid-damps-demand-for-refuge.html
Treasuries fell, extending a two-
week loss, as Ireland’s decision to seek a rescue for itself and
its banks eased concern the nation’s debt crisis will spread
across Europe.  Bonds also declined as the government prepared to sell $99
billion of notes this week, starting with an auction of $35
billion of two-year securities today. After Irish bond yields
soared in the past month, European authorities pushed Ireland to
seek aid to prevent the crisis that began in Greece this year
from spreading to other euro-area countries such as Portugal.  “It’s good news for the financial markets and bad news for
the Treasury market,” said  Kazuaki Oh’e , a debt salesman in
Tokyo at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, the North American
nation’s fifth-largest lender.  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year note was 2 basis points
higher at 2.89 percent at 8:26 a.m. in London, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The 2.625 percent security due in
November 2020 declined 4/32, or $1.25 per $1,000 face amount, to
97 23/32.  Yields climbed 34 basis points over the previous two weeks.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The euro strengthened for a fourth day against the dollar
and the yen on speculation the funds will help Ireland
restructure its financial industry, curbing a debt crisis that
began this year in Greece.  The 16-nation currency gained 0.5 percent to $1.3737.
MSCI’s  Asia Pacific Index  of shares advanced for a third
session, rising 0.6 percent.  ‘Small Sovereign’  Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said at a press
conference in Dublin yesterday the loan will be less than 100
billion euros.  “A small sovereign like Ireland faced with an outsized
problem that we have in our banking sector, cannot on its own
address all those problems,” Lenihan said.  The two-year notes being sold today yielded 0.54 percent in
pre-auction trading, compared with a record low 0.4 percent at
the previous offering on Oct. 26. Investors  bid  for 3.43 times
the amount on offer last month, above the average of 3.25 for
the past 10 auctions.  Indirect bidders,  the investor category that includes
foreign central banks, bought 40 percent of the notes, versus
the 10-sale average of 38.1 percent.  Two-year Treasuries have handed investors a 0.3 percent
loss this month, versus a 4 percent decline for 30-year bonds,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Shorter-maturity notes tend to track what the Fed does with
its target for overnight loans between banks, while longer-term
bonds are more influenced by inflation.  ‘Extended Period’  The Fed on Nov. 3 repeated its pledge to keep its benchmark
rate at a record low for an “extended period.” The central
bank also announced plans to pump $600 billion into the economy
through June by buying government debt to spur economic growth
and inflation.  The Fed is  scheduled  to purchase $7 billion to $9 billion
of Treasuries maturing from February 2018 to November 2020 today
as part of the program.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year  notes  and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the securities, has widened
to 2.14 percentage points from this year’s low of 1.47 percent
in August. The five-year average is 2.09 percentage points.  China Sales?  Chinese central bank adviser  Li Daokui  said China can
consider selling Treasuries to seek compensation for losses
caused to its foreign exchange investments because of the Fed’s
actions.  The Asian nation could sell some of its Treasury holdings
when the Fed buys the debt, Li said in an interview with state
broadcaster China Central Television.  The Dollar  Index  measuring the currency’s performance
against those of six major trading partners has declined almost
12 percent from this year’s high in June.  Central bank buying will support bonds, analysts at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. led by  Srini Ramaswamy  in New York wrote in
a report Nov. 19. Ten-year yields will fall to 2.25 percent by
year-end, the report said.  “The Fed still has a long way to go with Treasury
purchases,” according to JPMorgan, one of the 18 primary
dealers that are required to bid at the government’s debt sales.  Less Bearish  Fund managers in a survey by Ried Thunberg ICAP Inc., a
unit of the world’s largest interdealer broker, became less
bearish on the outlook for Treasuries through year-end.  Ried’s sentiment index rose to 49 for the seven days ended
Nov. 19 from 46 the week before. A figure less than 50 indicates
investors expect prices to fall.  Treasuries  yielded  less than tax-exempt bonds for the first
time since the financial crisis, a relationship that history
shows doesn’t last, especially as the Fed kindles inflation
expectations.  Investors buying AAA municipal general obligation bonds due
in two years get a yield equal to 116 percent of similar-
maturity Treasuries, Bloomberg Fair Market Value data show. A
ratio above 100 percent means those in the 38.3 percent federal
tax bracket get higher yields plus tax-sheltered income. Before
the credit crisis in 2008, that happened twice in the 20 years
for shorter-maturity debt.  The combination of worsening state and local finances and a
surge in  sales  that included $15.5 billion of offerings last
week, the most in more than seven years, has pushed tax-exempt
bond payouts above Treasuries.  “The value pendulum has swung from Treasuries to munis,”
said  Jonathan Lewis , founding principal of New York-based Samson
Capital Advisors LLC, which manages $7.3 billion. “Municipals
are a good place to park your money and get a yield advantage
that typically wouldn’t be there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 