-- Record U.S. Exports Reflect Midwest Boom With 3.7% Unemployment
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2010-11-22T20:24:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/record-u-s-exports-from-farms-reflect-midwest-boom-with-3-7-unemployment.html
The  unemployment rate  in North
Dakota is 3.7 percent, and “if it wasn’t for cable news, we
probably wouldn’t have any idea that the rest of the country was
any different,” said Doug Johnson, co-owner of crop insurer TCI
Insurance in West Fargo, who added six new employees this year.  As businesses across the U.S. struggle to recover from the
deepest recession since World War II and the national jobless
rate remains stuck at  9.6 percent , Johnson has benefited from
his location in the northern Great Plains, where a boom in
commodities, such as wheat and soybeans, is helping to create
jobs, lift farmers’ incomes and fuel demand for goods ranging
from  Deere & Co.  tractors and  Agco Corp.  combines to dinners at
local restaurants.  The  agricultural Midwest  -- particularly North and South
Dakota, Kansas and Nebraska -- has been leading the U.S.
economic recovery as its banks, businesses and households
avoided the worst of the housing bubble’s collapse and the
financial crisis that followed. Now the region is getting a
further boost from record exports of commodities, driven by
demand in China and Russia and a declining dollar. U.S. farm
shipments next year may surpass the 2008 record of $115.3
billion,  Joe Glauber , the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s chief
economist, said last month.  “This has been the brightest spot in the U.S. economy
throughout the recession, the only part of the country that has
held up reasonably well,” said  Mark Zandi , chief economist at
Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester, Pennsylvania.  ‘Significant Tailwind’  “The rise in commodities prices has been a very
significant tailwind for the entire region,” as strong demand
worldwide drives sales of products, including agricultural
equipment, financial services and fertilizer, he said. “It goes
beyond the farm itself.”  Ray Gaesser, 58, who grows soybeans and corn near Corning,
Iowa, says he installed new drying and grain-handling equipment
this month and may buy tractors, combines or planters next year.  “We are in a cycle that is good for agriculture right
now,” he said. “We are pretty optimistic.”  North Dakota and two other states in the region had the
lowest unemployment rates in the U.S. during September, with
South Dakota at  4.4 percent  and Nebraska at  4.6 percent . These
are also the three states with the largest share of gross
domestic product from agriculture: 10.9 percent for North
Dakota, 9.4 percent for South Dakota and 6.8 percent for
Nebraska, according to data from the Bureau of Economic
Analysis.  Job Creation  North Dakota and Nebraska will help lead the nation in job
creation next year, according to Moody’s, which estimates their
nonfarm payrolls will grow by 1.53 percent and 1.35 percent, the
third and seventh best rates in the country.  “Obviously the economy in North Dakota did not put a stop
to our plans” for expansion, said Johnson, who now employs 23
people at his crop-insurance company.  Farmers have done “extraordinarily well,”  Ann Duignan , an
analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York, said in an
interview. “With high commodities and low inputs, you’re
looking at significant margins and that means a big splurge of
spending into the yearend.”  Duignan recommended farm-equipment manufacturers Agco,
Deere and  CNH Global NV  in a Nov. 9 report to clients. Moline,
Illinois-based Deere, the world’s largest maker of farm
machinery, is “the No. 1 brand of choice in the crop segment”
and best positioned to benefit from the strength in U.S.
agriculture, she said. “They’re the ones who are making the
money.”  Rising Earnings  Deere reported a 47 percent jump in fiscal third-quarter
earnings on Aug. 18 as net income climbed to $617 million,
beating analysts’ estimates. The company  earned  about 65 percent
of its revenue and 80 percent of its operating income from the
U.S. and Canada in 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  CNH, an Amsterdam-based unit of Italian automaker  Fiat SpA 
that makes Case and New Holland farm equipment, got  43 percent 
of its revenue from the U.S. and Canada, while North America
accounted for  22 percent  of Duluth, Georgia-based Agco’s
revenue.  “We’re setting up for a very interesting 2011,” Duignan
said. “Overall it’s going to be a good year for farmers.”  Agriculture fared better than other sectors of the U.S.
economy during the recession, as an expanding world population
and growth in emerging economies supported demand for crops.
China was a net importer of corn last year for the first time
since 1996, even as its government sold state-owned inventories.  Declining Dollar  The U.S. dollar has declined 7.3 percent in the second half
of the year as food prices surged after cold in China, drought
in Russia and parts of Europe, and flooding in Canada damaged
harvests. The spot price of  corn  has gained 46 percent since
July 1,  wheat  is up 28 percent and  soybeans  have risen 25
percent, according to the USDA. The  S&P GSCI Agriculture Index 
added 41 percent, compared with the 17 percent advance in the
broader  S&P GSCI Index  of 24 commodities.  Farmland values also are rising. Land prices in some areas
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City’s district -- which
includes Kansas, Nebraska, Wyoming and parts of Missouri --
increased as much as 12 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier, the biggest jump since the fourth quarter of 2008, the
Fed bank said Nov. 12.  Land Speculation  That may be prompting some speculation, as people see land
as “an inflation hedge,”  Thomas Hoenig , the bank’s president,
said Oct. 25 in a speech in Lawrence, Kansas. Buyers are
thinking “you can’t go wrong with land,” he cautioned. “I
don’t want to see that.”  Farm incomes climbed this year to $77.1 billion, 19 percent
higher than the 2000-2009 average of $64.8 billion, the USDA
forecast in August.  The increase “is absolutely very important to the broader
economy,” said  Ernie Goss , a professor of economics at
Creighton University in Omaha, who conducts monthly surveys of
Midwestern banks and supply managers. “ Truck sales  are up
because farmers are buying trucks. That benefits local auto
dealerships. And that creates spending money at the local Pizza
Hut.”  While agriculture accounts for 1 percent of the more than
$14 trillion U.S. economy, its impact may be 10 times greater
when related businesses such as farm supplies, grain handling
and food making are included,  Jason Henderson , an economist at
the Kansas City Fed, said in an October interview.  Lagging Areas  Other parts of the country are still lagging behind farming
areas, according to  Diane Swonk , chief economist at Mesirow
Financial Inc. in Chicago.  While “the agricultural side of the Midwest is doing
well,” the plains states “are very, very different than the
industrial Midwest,” she said.  Unemployment in Michigan is  13 percent , the second highest
after Nevada at  14.4 percent . The jobless rate in the Detroit
metro area has stalled  above 13 percent  for 21 months.  Consumers in farming areas are in the best shape, according
to an index of financial distress that includes credit, housing,
and employment compiled by Atlanta-based CredAbility, which
provides nonprofit credit counseling. Four of the five states
with the most favorable conditions in the third quarter were
North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska and Wyoming.  That coincides with the  Fed districts  that had the lowest
unemployment rates in September: 7.2 percent for Kansas City and
6.2 percent for the Minneapolis district, which includes the
Dakotas.  ‘Economic Phenomena’  “Some of this relative success can be explained by strong
markets for oil, minerals and agricultural commodities,”
 Narayana Kocherlakota , president of the Minneapolis Fed Bank,
said in a speech today in Sioux Falls, South Dakota. “But it is
also true that many cities in the Ninth District, like  Sioux
Falls , are mostly removed from these economic phenomena and yet
they continue to perform well.”  The Minneapolis bank is studying the reasons for the
district’s success to determine if they could be “replicated at
the national level,” he said.  With incomes climbing, farm-credit conditions improved in
the third quarter, according to a report from the Kansas City
Fed. More district bankers noted higher loan-repayment rates and
fewer loan renewals and extensions, the bank said. Average farm-
loan interest rates fell to 6.7 percent, the lowest since the
survey began in 1976, and collateral requirements eased.  ‘Irrational Exuberance’  “The  housing debacle  and morass was not nearly as
significant in this part of the country,” Goss said. “The
banking problems were not nearly as great. There was irrational
exuberance on the East and West coasts; that was not here.”  Baker Implement Co. , a 150-employee farm-equipment dealer
in Kennett, Missouri, has hired six or seven employees in the
past two years and may add a similar number during the next
year, said President Paul Combs, 45. His business sells
tractors, combines, cotton pickers, sprayers, planters and hay
equipment.  “We are in a boom” as farmers “put money back into our
communities,” he said. “To the extent the agriculture sector
does well, though it is a small part of the economy, it is a big
part of our economy down here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Cleveland at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net 
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  