-- Rescue of Ireland Would Dwarf Greece's Bailout on Cost of Shoring Up Banks
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2010-11-22T11:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/rescue-of-ireland-would-dwarf-greece-s-bailout-on-cost-of-shoring-up-banks.html
Ireland will seek emergency
international aid totaling as much as 60 percent of the size of
its economy, dwarfing the Greek bailout, to save its banks and
bolster its finances.  Ireland will ask for about 95 billion euros ($130 billion)
from the European Union and International Monetary Fund, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. estimates. UniCredit SA put the package at as
much as 85 billion euros, while Deutsche Bank AG sees a 90
billion-euro plan. The 110 billion-euro aid for Greece in May
was the equivalent of 47 percent of its gross domestic product.  The cost of bailing out Ireland will be inflated by the
price of shoring up its banking system, which Goldman puts at
almost a third of the total request. The bursting of the real-
estate bubble in 2008 pushed its banks close to collapse and
plunged the country into recession.  “Good news in the short run does not mean problem
solved,”  Ken Wattret , chief euro-area economist at BNP Paribas
in London, wrote in a note to investors today. “As we saw with
Greece, securing financial support does not eradicate the
underlying problem: the need for multi-year fiscal austerity to
win back the markets confidence over the outlook for the public
finances. That is going to be tough.”  Peripheral Risk  Ireland moved toward accepting a bailout under pressure
from EU and European Central Bank leaders to stem contagion
across Europe’s so-called peripheral markets. The extra yield
investors demand to hold 10-year Irish debt over German bunds
jumped to a record 652 basis points on Nov. 11. Portuguese and
Italian spreads also rose to records this month.  Ireland will tap the 750 billion-euro  European Financial
Stability Facility  set up in May as a financial lifeline for the
rest of the euro region after Greece needed an emergency bailout
of three-year loans from the EU and IMF.  The cost of a bailout on the Irish scale for Portugal, seen
as the next weakest link among the EU’s high-deficit countries,
would cost 100 billion euros, based on a package of 60 percent
of GDP. For Spain, whose banks have also come under strain from
the collapse of its real-estate bubble, a bailout of 60 percent
of GDP would cost 632 billion euros. For Italy, the region’s
second-most indebted nation after Greece, the figure would be
912 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  