-- China Pulls All 29 Workers From Flooded Coal Mine After Daylong Rescue
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-22T08:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/rescuers-at-flooded-mine-in-china-find-no-signs-of-life-evening-news-says.html
All 29 workers trapped in a flooded
coal mine in China’s southwestern province of Sichuan have been
taken to safety, ending a daylong rescue mission, China Central
Television reported.  The miners were wrapped in quilts by paramedics as they
emerged from the pit to the applause of a crowd gathered near
the entrance, the state broadcaster showed. Rescuers took about
an hour between pulling out the first and last worker.  China, holder of the world’s worst mine safety record, has
been merging small mining operations and shutting unlicensed
producers to protect workers. Last year, the government closed
1,088 small coal mines that were deemed unsafe, helping reduce
fatalities by 18 percent to 2,631. That compared with 18 deaths
in mining accidents in the U.S. in 2009.  “There has been an improvement in safety in China since
they started closing some of the smaller mines,” said  Alexander Latzer , head of regional metals and mining research at Daiwa
Securities Capital Markets in Hong Kong. “Local officials are
also held more accountable for mine safety now.”  The flooding in Sichuan occurred two days after an
explosion at a Pike River Coal Co. mine in New Zealand, where 29
men are still trapped underground.  The accident in Sichuan follows the death of 37 miners in a
gas blast in Henan province a month ago. In June, 48 workers
died in a mine explosion at Pingdingshan, also in Henan.  One-Day Ordeal  Thirty-five miners at the Sichuan pit were underground when
the accident happened at 11 a.m. local time yesterday. Thirteen
of them escaped while 22 remained, the official Xinhua News
Agency said earlier today. Seven rescuers, led by an assistant
manager at the pit, got caught in the flood after entering the
colliery to free those trapped, according to Xinhua.  The mine wasn’t producing and was being expanded, Chengdu
Evening News reported. The upgrade would increase the pit’s
annual output capacity to 60,000 metric tons from 50,000 tons.  In Yunnan province, nine people were killed and 48 wounded
on Nov. 18 following an explosion at a makeshift shed at a coal
mine, Xinhua said yesterday, citing local authorities.  The blast was set off by people and was a deliberate act,
Xinhua said, citing the local police. The explosion happened
after a dispute between coal-mine contractors, and 10 people
have been detained since, according to Xinhua.  China accounted almost half of the world’s coal consumption
last year, according to the BP Statistical Review of World
Energy. Chinese demand has more than doubled to 1.5 billion
metric tons in 2009 from 1999, data from the Review show.  -- Chua Baizhen . With assistance from  John Duce  in Hong Kong.
Editors:  Ryan Woo , Amit Prakash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 