-- Roger Federer Says Longer ATP Offseason Is `Good Thing' for Players, Fans
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-11-22T01:07:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/roger-federer-says-longer-atp-offseason-is-good-thing-for-players-fans.html
Roger Federer  said changes to the
men’s tennis calendar that will mean a seven-week offseason
starting in 2012 is a “good thing” for players and fans.  Heeding pleas from athletes including Federer, top-ranked
 Rafael Nadal  and No. 5  Andy Murray , the  ATP World Tour  said
yesterday it will extend the offseason by two weeks from the end
of 2012 to give them more time to rest and recuperate.  “It’s good to have somewhat of a bit of a longer
offseason,” second-ranked Federer told reporters last night
after his opening match at the season-ending ATP World Tour
Finals in London. “In six weeks, you can heal problems,
inflammations, you name it. I definitely think it’s a step in
the right direction.”  The men’s tennis tour is one of the longest in professional
sports, consisting of 62 events in 32 countries from January
until November. This year’s Davis Cup final, which is organized
by the International Tennis Federation, is scheduled Dec. 3-5
and the first tournament on the 2011 calendar starts Jan. 2.  The schedule change was achieved by removing the free week
between the Paris Masters and ATP World Tour Finals in November.
The ATP also rescheduled four late-season events in Bucharest,
St. Petersburg, Vienna and Montpellier, France, to earlier in
the year. That means players will have two extra weeks off
without any tournaments being dropped, said  Adam Helfant ,
executive chairman and president of the ATP World Tour.  “The health and wellbeing of our players is a tour-wide
issue and preserving and extending the playing careers of our
top players is critical for the long-term good of the game,”
Helfant, a former Nike Inc. vice president who joined the tour
at the beginning of 2009, said in a news conference yesterday.  Federer, who won a record-extending 16th Grand Slam singles
title at January’s Australian Open, said a bigger break will
also make the distinction between seasons clearer.  “Just having a bit more of an offseason makes more sense
for everybody,” added Federer, who’s a member of the ATP
Players’ Council alongside Nadal. “Otherwise, it feels like
it’s continuous, which can be confusing for some people. I don’t
think it is, but for the average guy that doesn’t follow tennis
the whole time, it feels like it’s non-stop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at the 02 arena through the London sports desk
at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  