-- Rousseff Said to Plan to Keep Brazil's Central Bank Operational Autonomy
-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 2010-11-22T21:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/rousseff-said-to-plan-to-keep-brazil-s-central-bank-operational-autonomy.html
Brazil’s President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  plans to maintain the central bank’s operational
autonomy and also will keep the position of central bank
president as a Cabinet-level post, said two people familiar
with her decisions.  Rousseff, who succeeds  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva as
president of Latin America’s biggest economy on Jan. 1, will
defer any decision on her pick to head the central bank until
after she meets current chief  Henrique Meirelles , said the
people, who asked to remain anonymous.  “It’s important that Rousseff makes clear and reiterates
her commitment to a floating exchange rate, fiscal austerity and
central bank autonomy, that the bank is free to do what it takes
to control inflation,” said  Elson Teles  chief economist at
Maxima Asset Management SA in a phone interview from Rio de
Janeiro today.  Yields on interest rate future contracts in Brazil rose
across the board today amid speculation that Rousseff will
replace Meirelles and end the central bank’s operational
autonomy, potentially skewing policy in favor of economic growth
at the expense of faster inflation. Rousseff won election on
Oct. 31 in part by pledging to continue Lula’s economic
policies.  The yield on the interest-rate future contract maturing
April 2011, the most active today, rose four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 10.84 percent.  The contracts maturing from July 2013 rose 20 basis points
or more, while those due after July 2016 soared 30 basis points
or more. The real fell 0.4 percent to 1.7216 per dollar.  Meirelles, Mantega  The meeting between Rousseff and Meirelles has yet to be
scheduled, said one of the people familiar with her plans.  Rio de Janeiro-based newspaper O Globo today reported on
its website that Rousseff has ruled out keeping Meirelles on as
the bank’s chief, citing a person close to the president-elect
it didn’t identify.  “The market would be satisfied if the government keeps
Meirelles, but his departure is given as certain,” said Cesar
Trotte, director of management at Maxima Asset Management, which
manages 1 billion reais ($580 million) in Rio de Janeiro.  Rousseff considers the current central bank director for
financial system regulation and organization,  Alexandre Tombini ,
as the “strongest” candidate to replace Meirelles, O Globo
reported, citing the person it didn’t identify.  “The market would have a very good reaction to Alexandre
Tombini, an appropriate name, part of the bank’s staff, in line
with inflation targeting -- it would be as good for the market
as Meirelles continuity,” said Trotte.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  will stay on at his post,
said one of the people familiar with Rousseff’s decision making,
adding that the president-elect has no plans to make any public
announcements today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  