-- Rubber Advances for Third Day as Ireland Seeks Bank Bailout, Tight Supply
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-11-22T07:37:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/rubber-advances-for-third-day-as-ireland-seeks-bank-bailout-tight-supply.html
Rubber advanced for a third day as
the yen weakened against the euro amid optimism that an
agreement to rescue Ireland’s banks will prevent contagion
across European debt markets, while supply remained tight. The
cash price in Thailand climbed to a record.  April-delivery rubber on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange
climbed as much as 2.1 percent to 375.3 yen per kilogram ($4,500
a metric ton) before settling at 369.8 yen. The most-active
contract has climbed 13 percent this month as heavy rain in
Thailand, Indonesia and Malaysia, the top three growers,
disrupted tapping and lowered production.  “Worries over the debt situation in Europe have eased,
improving sentiment and raising optimism that demand for the
commodity will grow,” said  Chaiwat Muenmee , analyst at DS
Futures Co. “The low supply level is also supportive,” he
said.  Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  said on Nov. 21 in Dublin
that he expects talks on the details of financial assistance
from the European Union and the International Monetary Fund for
Ireland to be completed in the “next few weeks.” Finance
Minister  Brian Lenihan  said the loan will be less than 100
billion euros ($137 billion).  The yen depreciated to 114.85 against the euro, compared
with 113.65 at the close of stock trading in Tokyo on Nov. 19. A
weaker yen improves the appeal of yen-denominated contracts.  Cash-Price Record  Investors are still concerned about tight supplies from
Thailand, Indonesia and Malaysia, said Hiroyuki Kikukawa,
general manager of research at Tokyo-based IDO Securities Co.  The cash price in Thailand, the largest exporter, climbed
to a record 132.75 baht ($4.44) per kilogram today as floods
devastated trees, lowering production in the country’s south,
according to the  Rubber Research Institute of Thailand . The
southern provinces account for 68 percent of the country’s total
plantation area.  May-delivery rubber on the Shanghai Futures Exchange
declined as much as 3.5 percent to 33,200 yuan ($5,000) a ton
before closing at 33,215 yuan.  “The upside is limited on concerns over China’s measures
to fight inflation,” Chaiwat at DS Futures said.  China, the biggest buyer, ordered banks on Nov. 19 to set
aside larger reserves for the second time in two weeks. The
latest move to contain excess liquidity came after Premier  Wen Jiabao  held a Cabinet meeting earlier in the week and called for
a crackdown on speculation in agricultural goods, saying price
controls may be needed on “daily necessities.”  China’s natural-rubber inventories rose for an eighth
consecutive week to a seven-month high, gaining 705 tons to
60,996 tons, based on a survey of 10 warehouses in Shanghai,
Shandong, Yunnan, Hainan and Tianjin, the exchange said Nov. 19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  