-- Salman Rushdie Hurls Plot Twists Like Lightning Bolts in `Luka': Books
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2010-11-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/rushdie-hurls-plot-twists-like-lightning-bolts-in-adventure-tale-review.html
Salman Rushdie  has said that seeing
“The Wizard of Oz” made a writer of him. In “ Luka and the Fire
of Life ,” his new children’s book, “The Wizard of Oz” meets “The
Faerie Queen.”  Rushdie grabs everything from everywhere -- cult movies,
epic poems, computer games; Apollonius of Rhodes and
Shakespeare,  Johnny Cash  and  George Harrison ; fantasy, allegory,
homily and nonsense. The plot is a race against time: Twelve-
year-old Luka braves the World of Magic on a quest for the
titular Fire of Life, which he needs to revive his dying father,
the storyteller Rashid Khalifa.  Like Rushdie’s 1990 “ Haroun and the Sea of Stories ,” to
which it forms a pendant, “Luka and the Fire of Life” began as
a tale for one of the author’s own sons. It has a seat-of-the-
pants inventiveness that suggests a clever dad spinning out
“bedtime stories and breakfast sagas and dinner-table yarns.”  That notion is very Rushdie. The narrator of “ Midnight’s
Children ,” his much-acclaimed 1981 novel, more than once
compares himself to Scheherazade.  Like Scheherazade, this dad rattles on with a hint of
desperation, as though the kid might blow up if he were to stop.
Plot twists hurtle at you thick as hailstones. Every paragraph
rockets off in a new direction. And as you feel yourself wearing
down, you may start to suspect that Rushdie is writing for a
specific group of children: the ones with attention deficit
disorder.  Mythology Overload  This kind of writing may indeed captivate tykes who are
more at home playing  iPhone  games than reading. My own eyes
glazed over as the author labored to cram every supernatural
being from every mythology he could Google into his brief book:  “And fat Fa’atiu the Samoan is over there, and bulgy
Buluga of the Andaman Islands is over there, and Ara Tiotio the
Tornado God of Polynesia, and Paka’a from Hawaii. And Ays the
Armenian Wind Demon, and the Vila, the Slav Goddesses, and the
Norse winged giant Hraesvelg ...”  To his credit, he recognizes his tendency to pile it on, or
at least he recognizes that others recognize it --“‘Stop,
please stop,’ Luka begged. ‘It doesn’t matter what they’re
called.’” My guess is that the gentle jibes at the loquacity of
Luka’s storytelling father (when he falls ill the headline is
“No More Blather From the Shah of Blah”) originated in the
Rushdie household.  Insultana of Ott  What’s missing are believable characters. Luka is no
Dorothy (and no  Judy Garland ); he’s your generic plucky lad. The
Insultana of Ott, the intrepid queen who comes to his aid, is
your generic fiery redhead. The evil Captain Aag is your generic
villain.  Will kids who cut their teeth on Harry Potter find anything
here to absorb them? Since Rushdie is a parent and I’m not, I
can only wonder if he’s on to something. But it would take more
magic than he can conjure to extend the spell to grown-ups.  “Luka and the Fire of Life” is from Random House in the
U.S. and Jonathan Cape in the U.K. (218 pages, $25, 12 pounds).
To buy this book in North America, click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 