-- RXR to Buy 1330 Avenue of Americas in Bet on Rising Manhattan Office Rents
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2010-11-22T23:14:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/rxr-to-buy-1330-avenue-of-americas-in-bet-on-rising-manhattan-office-rents.html
Scott Rechler ’s RXR Realty LLC
agreed to buy 1330 Avenue of the Americas, a midtown Manhattan
tower owned until last year by developer  Harry Macklowe , in
anticipation of rising New York City rents.  “We’re believers that  New York  is going to experience an
extremely strong recovery, particularly for trophy assets,”
Rechler said in an interview today. “This building is well
situated to participate in that recovery.”  A partnership led by RXR will pay about $400 million for
the 39-story tower at West 53rd Street, said a person with
knowledge of the transaction, who asked not to be identified
because the sale isn’t yet complete. The seller is Otera
Capital, a unit of Canada’s biggest pension fund manager, Caisse
de Depot et Placement du Quebec.  The sale demonstrates that New York City skyscrapers have
recovered much of their value following  declines  of as much as
50 percent since the credit crisis deepened in September 2008,
said  Peter Hennessy , New York tri-state regional president of
commercial property brokerage Cassidy Turley.  The rapid and sharp value drop that followed the bankruptcy
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the shutdown of credit
markets “was an anomaly,” Hennessy said in an interview.
“You’re now seeing the top end of the market stabilize.”  Macklowe Loss  Otera, which held a mezzanine loan on the property, took
over the building at an April 2009 auction by bidding $100,000
and assuming its $240 million senior mortgage. The tower was one
of at least 12 that Macklowe lost after he couldn’t repay almost
$7 billion of short-term debt he took out on seven Midtown
skyscrapers in early 2007.  Macklowe paid $498 million for 1330 Avenue of the Americas
in 2006. The developer had begun renovating the property in 2007
in anticipation of getting higher rents.  The building “will have space that will become available
to lease in what we believe to be an escalating market,”
Rechler said.  There should be a “spike” in New York office rents in the
next 24 to 36 months, as employment grows and new construction
remains near historic lows, Cushman & Wakefield Vice Chairman
 Josh Kuriloff  said last month.  RXR , based in Uniondale, New York, is paying about $750 a
square foot for the tower, which is on the same block as
Manhattan’s Museum of Modern Art. Tenants include London-based
publisher Pearson Plc, owner of the Financial Times, which
leases about a quarter of the building, according to information
compiled by Bloomberg. The occupancy rate was 70 percent as of
June 20.  The deal is RXR’s second for a Manhattan office tower this
year. In June, Rechler bought a 49 percent stake in 340 Madison
Ave., a 22-story tower between 43rd and 44th streets, in a deal
that valued the property at $570 million.  Francois Gaboury, a spokesman for Montreal-based Otera,
declined to comment on the sale of 1330 Avenue of the Americas.
The Wall Street Journal reported the tentative deal today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David M. Levitt  in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  