-- DAX Index Declines After North Korea Report; Sky Deutschland Shares Drop
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-11-23T16:58:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/sap-sky-deutschland-volkswagen-may-move-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks retreated for a second
day after North Korea lobbed shells at a South Korean island and
concern grew that Europe’s debt crisis will spread.  ThyssenKrupp AG and  Salzgitter AG  fell with metal prices.
Deutsche Bank AG and Commerzbank AG followed European banking
shares lower.  Sky Deutschland AG  sank after the television
operator part owned by  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. said the
nation’s regulator found flaws in its financial statements.  The benchmark  DAX Index  decreased 1.7 percent to 6,705 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt as the index dropped for a
second consecutive day for the first time this month. The German
gauge declined yesterday as investors speculated that a bailout
for Ireland’s banks won’t stop the sovereign-debt crisis from
infecting other European economies. The broader HDAX Index slid
1.8 percent today.  “The market fell because of a mix of reasons: the tensions
in Korea but also the fact that there are too many rumors around
following the Irish bailout,” said  Heinz-Gerd Sonnenschein , an
equity strategist at Deutsche Postbank AG in Bonn.  North Korea sent “several” artillery shells into South
Korea near the two nations’ western border, South Korea’s Joint
Chiefs of Staff said in a statement. South Korea returned fire
with 80 shells and scrambled fighter jets as President  Lee Myung Bak  vowed to respond “sternly.”  Stem Contagion  Spanish and Portuguese government bonds led losses by so-
called peripheral European debt today amid speculation the
countries will struggle to manage their deficits after Ireland
moved to secure a bailout. The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe
Index of credit-default swaps on 15 countries climbed 3 basis
points to a record 180, while contracts insuring Spanish and
Portuguese banks’ riskier subordinated bonds jumped, according
to CMA, a data provider.  Stocks extended declines after a report showed sales of
existing U.S. homes fell more than forecast in October as
foreclosure moratoriums and a lack of credit disrupted the U.S.
housing market.  Purchases decreased 2.2 percent to a 4.43 million annual
rate from 4.53 million in September, the National Association of
Realtors said today in Washington. Economists projected sales
would decline to a 4.48 million pace, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Steelmakers Decline  Salzgitter, the country’s second-biggest steelmaker,
retreated 1.7 percent to 50.07 euros as aluminum, copper, lead,
tin and zinc all fell on the London Metal Exchange.  ThyssenKrupp 
dropped 1 percent to 28.22 euros.  Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank, the country’s largest banks,
declined 2.3 percent to 38.95 euros and 2.2 percent to 5.86
euros, respectively. European banking shares posted the second-
biggest decline among 19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600
Index today, falling 2.3 percent.  Deutsche Post AG  dropped 4.4 percent to 13.06 euros even
after the world’s biggest transporter of air and sea freight by
volume said it aims to grow faster than the market and boost
revenue in the next five years as its logistics and express
operations expand.  K+S AG rose 1.6 percent to 49.02 euros, paring its 2.1
percent decline from yesterday after Europe’s largest potash
producer said it agreed to buy Canada’s Potash One Inc.  Sky Deutschland       Sky Deutschland  sank 5.9 percent to 1.47 euros, the biggest
daily decline in three weeks. BaFin’s findings in the annual
2007 and first-half 2008 statements, if conclusive, may lead to
corrected financial reports, fines and claims for damages, the
company, based in Unterfoehring near Munich, said yesterday in a
statement. Sky Deutschland said the claims are “inapplicable”
and will be legally reviewed. [bn:WBTKR=SGL:GY]   SGL Carbon SE [] lost 3.6 percent to 26.56 euros, the first
drop in five days. The world’s biggest maker of carbon and
graphite products was downgraded to “hold” from “add” at
Commerzbank, which said “uncertainty about pricing persists.”  A report today showed German exports rose 2.3 percent from
the second quarter, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden
said. Gross domestic product gained 0.7 percent when adjusted
for seasonal swings, the office said, confirming a Nov. 12
estimate. In the second quarter, GDP surged 2.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 