-- Saudi King's Travel to U.S. for Medical Treatment Raises Succession Issue
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2010-11-22T17:36:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/saudi-king-travels-to-u-s-for-medical-treatment-raising-succession-issue.html
Saudi Arabian  King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz  left for the U.S. today for medical treatment, raising
the issue of succession in the world’s largest oil exporter.  King Abdullah delegated the management of the affairs of
the kingdom to his half-brother, Crown Prince Sultan bin
Abdulaziz, during his absence, the state-run Saudi Press Agency
said today.  The “medical announcements and the trip to the U.S. have
by virtue of Saudi Arabia’s importance opened the debate on
succession,” said  John Sfakianakis , chief economist at Riyadh-
based Banque Saudi Fransi. “Saudi Arabia wants to continue to
be viewed as stable.”  Prince Nayef , the 76-year-old interior minister, and Prince
Salman, the governor of Riyadh, may be candidates for the throne
in addition to the crown prince. The law stipulates that a
monarch must be a son or grandson of the kingdom’s founder,
Abdul Aziz bin Saud, who died in 1953.  A medical commission “is charged with making sure that the
candidate for the throne and crown prince is in good health,”
 Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Dubai-based
Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis, said in
response to e-mailed questions. “That may be a sticking point
given the health of the first generation contenders.”  Crown Prince Sultan, who has travelled frequently in the
past year for health care, returned to Saudi Arabia yesterday
after spending several months in Morocco, SPA reported. The
crown prince, who was born in 1928, has been defense minister
for almost five decades. In March 2009, King Abdullah appointed
Prince Nayef as second deputy prime minister. Prince Nayef has
filled in for the crown prince during his times abroad.  Share Index  Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index  rose less than 0.1
percent to 6,363.20 in trading in Riyadh today.  “I suspect that there would not be any significant policy
changes in the event of a succession,”  Jarmo Kotilaine , chief
economist at Riyadh-based NCB Capital said in response to e-
mailed questions. “The economic agenda is very well defined and
anchored in the political establishment.”  King Abdullah, who became de-facto ruler in 1996 after King
Fahd was incapacitated from the effects of a stroke, has used
the kingdom’s oil wealth to diversify the economy and improve
education. Unemployment was 10.5 percent in 2009, according to
the Central Department of Statistics and Information.   Oil Prices  The king supported cooperation between oil consuming and
producing countries in 2008 when oil prices peaked at about $147
a barrel. Saudi Arabia has tried to maintain stable oil prices
and raised its production capacity to 12.5 million barrels a
day.  The king traveled to the U.S. to be treated for a back
injury, SPA reported. Physicians advised King Abdullah to rest
after tests last week showed a slipped disc caused a blood clot
that put pressure on some nerves, SPA said on Nov. 19. Health
Minister Abdullah Al Rabeeah said the monarch “is in good
health and in stable condition.” He spoke in an interview with
state television yesterday.  Born in 1924, King Abdullah is the 13th son of King
Abdulaziz, the kingdom’s founder, according to the website of
the Saudi Embassy in Washington.  The Saudi Royal Court announced on Oct. 12 that King
Abdullah, who came to power in 2005, suffered from a herniated
disc and had been advised by doctors to rest.  Since then, the monarch appointed his son, Prince Mutaib,
as head of the National Guard. The king also relieved his 77-
year-old brother, Prince Badr bin Abdulaziz, of his duties as
deputy head of the National Guard at his request for health
reasons, SPA said, citing a royal decree.  “Clearly there are changes afoot,” Karasik said. “It is
important for the succession process to be clear in the current
security environment.”  Under King Abdullah, Saudi security forces have battled al-
Qaeda supporters after a series of attacks against Western
targets. The attacks were viewed as a direct threat to the royal
family.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glen Carey  in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 