-- Senator Seeks Probe of Comcast for Naming NBC Managers Before Deal Cleared
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-11-22T22:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/senator-seeks-probe-of-comcast-for-naming-nbc-managers-before-deal-cleared.html
U.S. Senator  Al Franken , a former
NBC comedian, asked federal officials to investigate whether
 Comcast Corp.  violated antitrust law by naming new managers at
NBC Universal as regulators weigh the purchase.  “Comcast’s actions may constitute ‘gun-jumping’ in
violation of the letter and spirit of federal antitrust law,”
Franken, a Minnesota Democrat, said in a letter to  Christine Varney , the assistant U.S. attorney general for antitrust.
Franken’s office released the letter by e-mail today.  The Justice Department and Federal Communications
Commission are reviewing the purchase announced last December.
It would give Comcast, the largest U.S. cable company, control
of the NBC television network, broadcast stations, cable
channels such as MSNBC and USA Network and a share of the online
site Hulu LLC.  Franken, 59, rose to prominence on the NBC show “Saturday
Night Live.” He has raised campaign money by promoting his
criticism of Comcast’s planned takeover of the network.  Philadelphia-based Comcast last week announced a
“comprehensive restructuring” at NBC Universal by naming 43
managers for the  General Electric Co.  unit, Franken wrote.  Comcast may be seeking to indirectly control NBC “well in
advance of federal approval” and its action may trigger
impermissible exchanges of sensitive information, he wrote.
Comcast “does not have the right to effect that merger absent
explicit federal approval,” Franken wrote.  Transition Planning Common  “Transition and integration planning is common, proper,
and expected,”  Sena Fitzmaurice , a Washington-based spokeswoman
for Comcast, said in an e-mail. “Post-closing management teams
are regularly announced prior to antitrust approval. NBC
Universal has remained in total control of all decision
making.”  Gina Talamona, a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment.  Jeffrey Zucker , chief executive officer of Universal City,
California-based NBC Universal, said Nov. 18 he expects the
takeover to be completed by year-end. Neither regulatory agency
has announced a date for a decision.  Franken was an actor and writer for “Saturday Night Live”
from 1975 to 1980 and from 1985 to 1995. Among his comedy
characters was Stuart Smalley, the self-help guru who ended his
messages with the affirmation, “I’m good enough, I’m smart
enough, and, doggone it, people like me!”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  