-- Shanghai, Beijing's Luxury Home Prices to Pass Hong Kong, UBS's Zhang Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-22T02:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/shanghai-beijing-s-luxury-home-prices-to-pass-hong-kong-ubs-s-zhang-says.html
Shanghai and Beijing’s luxury home
prices may increase 15 percent each year to overtake Hong Kong
in the next five to 10 years, said  Joe Zhang , deputy head of
China investment banking at UBS AG.  China’s tightening measures won’t stop prices from rising
and may only “delay” the gains, he said. Monetary policies may
also be eased over time to avoid a rise in unemployment, said
Zhang, who worked at a property development company in Shenzhen
for three years.  “It doesn’t matter what the government is doing, whether
we have 100 new measures or 10,000 new measures,” Hong Kong-
based Zhang said in an interview Nov. 19. “In the long term,
all these are noises and will disappear, and only one variable
matters -- money supply.”  China, which last month raised interest rates for the first
time in three years, suspended mortgages for third-home
purchases and pledged to speed up trials of property taxes this
year to restrain foreign capital and cool property prices. The
central bank also ordered lenders on Nov. 19 to set aside larger
reserves for the second time in two weeks, draining cash from
the financial system to limit inflation.  China’s M2 , the broadest money supply measure, rose 19.3
percent in October from a year earlier, the most since May. The
 economy  expanded 9.6 percent in the third quarter, three times
the pace of growth in the U.S. and more than Hong Kong’s 6.8
percent gain.  Prices of luxury homes in the Chinese capital and the
financial hub, or the top 5 percent to 10 percent of each market,
will continue to climb as values of mid- and low-end real estate
are also rising, Zhang said. China’s home price rose for a 17th
month in October from a year earlier, gaining 8.6 percent, the
government said.  Controlling Inflation  Hong Kong announced more measures on Nov. 19 to curb
speculation after prices surged more than 50 percent since the
start of last year. The city imposed additional stamp duties and
increased deposits for home purchases, a day after the
International Monetary Fund warned that asset inflation could
derail the city’s economy.  Residential real estate values in Hong Kong have jumped 52
percent since the beginning of 2009 and surpassed a 1997 peak,
according to an index compiled by Centaline Property Agency Ltd.  China is unlikely to introduce further property-specific
measures as the government shifts its policy focus to
controlling inflation, Citigroup Inc. said in a report last week.
More than 1 trillion yuan ($150 billion) would likely go into
other areas if the government screens out property investment
and speculation demand, Citigroup forecast.  There are signs the government measures are starting to
have an effect. The  increase  in October home prices was the
slowest in 10 months, government data showed. Sales volume
dropped 11 percent in October from the previous month, while the
value of transactions fell 7.7 percent.  “Maybe you can’t see the impact in a short period like one
or two years,” Zhang said. “But over a five or 10 year period,
asset prices will be a function of money supply.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  