-- Silver Sales to Jump as Demand Gains, Perth Mint Says
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2010-11-22T07:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/silver-sales-to-surge-as-investors-seek-protection-perth-mint-forecasts.html
Silver-coin sales will climb as
investors seek to protect their wealth from weakening currencies,
according to the Perth Mint, producer of about 6 percent of the
world’s gold bullion.  “There seems to be more upside with silver than gold right
now,” said Ron Currie, sales and marketing director. The
mint, founded in 1899, also wants to sell more gold to China
even as it scales back production rates from the peak levels
seen last year after the 2008 financial crisis, Currie said.  The mint’s outlook adds to signs that global demand for
silver, which trades for about 50 times less than gold per ounce,
will increase. The Royal Canadian Mint said last week that
silver-coin sales will jump more than 50 percent this year. The
Perth Mint may match that gain, Currie said in an interview.  Some customers have moved gold holdings into silver, Currie
said on Nov. 19. There are no fundamentals to the silver market
“but people are buying it,” he said from the mint, which is
controlled by the Western Australian government.  Immediate-delivery silver has surged 64 percent this year,
peaking at $29.36 an ounce earlier this month, the highest price
since September 1980. That’s beaten gold’s 24 percent jump in
2010. Gold traded at a record $1,424.60 an ounce on Nov. 9.  Silver may climb to more than $30 an ounce in 2011 on
investment demand, London-based research firm GFMS Ltd. said in
a report on Nov. 18. The  Dollar Index , a gauge of the U.S.
currency’s value, has dropped about 12 percent since reaching
this year’s high on June 7 on concern that further bond
purchases by the Federal Reserve will debase the currency.  ‘Poor Man’s Gold’  In India, the world’s top gold consumer, there may be
rising demand for silver, which has been “regarded for long as
the ‘poor man’s gold’,” broker Karvy Comtrade Ltd. said in a
note to clients on Nov. 2.  The Perth Mint’s Currie declined to give a total output
figure for coins and bars, or the value of the bullion stored on
behalf of buyers. Investors can opt to buy and store gold at the
mint, or buy coins to hold themselves.  “We’re coming off the highs triggered by the global credit
crisis back to a more normal production status,” said Currie.
Since June, the mint has cut its employees to 250 from 300 and
scrapped an overnight shift, Currie said.  “We won’t reach those highs again unless there’s another
global crisis,” said Currie. “The last month has quietened
down, with some customers selling back because the prices are so
high.” The  mint  had doubled capacity and increased staff
numbers by about 20 percent in the 18 months to June.  China Market  “China is a target market for us” for gold, Currie said.
“Now there’s an opportunity to sell to the banks, because they
have the ability to import gold, we’d like to feed that market.
Delivering to the U.S. and Europe is potentially difficult for
us, but China is much easier.”  Demand for gold in China, the world’s largest producer, may
double in the next decade to as much as 900 metric tons a year
as retail investment and jewelry sales increase, according to a
forecast this month from the World Gold Council.  Western Australia gold production was valued at A$5 billion
($4.94 billion) in the year to June 30, 2009, according to state
government figures. The mint, which processes all the gold mined
in Australia as well as imports of scrap from overseas,
introduced a web-based service last week allowing Australian
customers to buy gold, Currie said.  “The global financial crisis caused a huge interest in
precious metals,” Currie said. “Mums and dads were hedging
their exposure to other investments,” he said. The website-
purchase service will be expanded overseas after February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  