-- Singapore Bonds Draw Funds on Asia Capital Curbs, RBS, Morgan Stanley Say
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 2010-11-22T00:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/singapore-bonds-draw-funds-on-asia-capital-curbs-rbs-morgan-stanley-say.html
Demand for Singapore’s government
bonds may rise as mounting capital controls elsewhere in Asia
drive funds to markets with the fewest constraints, according to
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Morgan Stanley.  Record economic growth, a central bank that favors currency
appreciation and AAA debt ratings add to the appeal, they said.
Indonesia, Taiwan, Thailand and South Korea have all tightened
curbs on foreign investment in their debt markets this year,
seeking to limit inflows that may destabilize their economies.  “Investors view the Singapore dollar as a basket trade for
Asia and they are very comfortable with everything being clear
and transparent here,”  Peter Nielsen , the London-based global
head of markets at Royal Bank of Scotland, said Nov. 19. “So,
we see flows into Singapore and international investors in
Singapore bonds.”  The city-state’s local-currency debt has handed investors a
4.6 percent return this year, the least among Southeast Asia’s
five largest economies, according to HSBC Holdings Plc indexes.
Indonesian and Philippine bonds are the best performers with
respective gains of 23 percent and 12 percent.  Indonesia is preparing to extend a 28-day holding period on
central-bank bills owned by foreigners to curb inflows, Bank
Indonesia said last month. Foreign ownership of the nation’s
sovereign debt has jumped 79 percent to 192.8 trillion rupiah
($21.5 billion) this year, government data show.  Taxes, Limits  Thailand, whose currency is Asia’s best performer of the
year with an 11 percent gain, scrapped in October an exemption
that allowed foreigners to avoid a 15 percent tax on income from
its bonds. South Korea’s government said last week it plans to
reinstate income and capital-gains taxes on overseas investors’
bond holdings, while Taiwan announced on Nov. 9 that global
funds will be allowed to invest no more than 30 percent of their
portfolios in government bonds and money-market products.  Concern that capital flows to emerging markets are surging
have been overstated, though authorities are keeping a “close
eye” on inflows, Ravi Menon, permanent secretary at Singapore’s
trade ministry, said on Nov. 18. The  Monetary Authority of
Singapore  hasn’t had to take “extraordinary measures” against
inflows, Deputy Managing Director Ong Chong Tee said Nov. 18.  5-Year Notes  The yield on Singapore’s 3.25 percent bonds due September
2020 rose two basis points last week to 2.13 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It reached 1.87 percent on Aug.
11, the lowest level since the notes were issued in August 2005.
The rate on benchmark five-year bonds increased 18 basis points
to 1.17 percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Morgan Stanley recommends investors buy the five-year notes
once their yield is between 1.25 percent and 1.5 percent,
predicting bonds worldwide are set for a period of weakness as
money-printing by the U.S. Federal Reserve stokes inflation
globally.  Singapore, which uses its currency rather than interest
rates to manage monetary policy, is “very proactive in
tightening” and so the nation’s dollar is likely to advance,
said  Pieter Van Der Schaft , the Hong Kong-based head of Asian
rates research at Morgan Stanley.  As most Asian debt has rallied this year, “you have to see
continued currency gains to keep people interested in the
bonds,” he said Nov. 19. “And you shouldn’t see too many
capital controls.”  Currency Gains  Singapore’s dollar strengthened 8.2 percent this year to
end last week at S$1.2953 against the greenback. It reached
S$1.2817 on Nov. 4, the highest level in Bloomberg data going
back to 1981. The currency will rise 2 percent to S$1.27 by end
of 2011, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of analysts.  The MAS guides the local dollar within a band against
undisclosed trade-weighted currencies and adjusts the pace of
appreciation or depreciation by changing the band’s slope,
centre or width. The central bank at a twice-yearly policy
review on Oct. 14 said it would steepen the slope and widen the
band, while continuing to seek a “modest and gradual
appreciation.”  Singapore’s consumer prices rose 3.7 percent from a year
earlier in September, the most in 20 months, and economists
surveyed by Bloomberg predict data tomorrow will show a similar
increase for October.  Gross domestic product will expand a record 15 percent in
2010, the trade ministry forecast on Nov. 18. That would be the
fastest pace in Asia, based on International Monetary Fund
estimates published last month.  Foreign Reserves  Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s have both
assigned Singapore their top credit ratings, which may help
attract funds as regional central banks seek to diversify their
foreign-exchange reserves, RBS’s Nielsen said. China has the
world’s largest reserves of $2.65 trillion and central bank
Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said last month securities issued by
smaller countries may be considered as the holdings are
diversified.  “This part of the world is increasingly comfortable in
seeing a larger portion of its investments remaining here,”
Nielsen said. “Part of that is an exchange-rate view. You don’t
want to buy something that will depreciate. The other part is
the kind of growth that we see as wealth multiplies in this part
of the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  