-- Sodexo Seeks to Expand With `Small, Local' Acquisitions, Chief Landel Says
-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 2010-11-22T08:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/sodexo-seeks-to-expand-with-small-local-acquisitions-chief-landel-says.html
Sodexo,  the world’s second-largest
catering company, is seeking “small, local” acquisitions to
expand its facilities management and service-voucher divisions,
Chief Executive Officer  Michel Landel  said in an interview.  “We have reimbursed debt, are financing our growth,
development and investment, paying dividends and looking at
small and medium-sized acquisitions,” Landel said in Paris.  Sodexo is a stronger position to consider purchases after
reducing  net borrowings  to 656 million euros ($904 million) as
of Aug. 31 from 889 million euros a year earlier. That cut the
debt-to-equity ratio to 24 percent from 38 percent. The Issy-
les-Moulineaux, France-based company has bought businesses such
as Germany’s Zehnacker Group in late 2008 to widen its lineup of
services such as health-care and technical-maintenance services.  “Our potential is much bigger than it was before because
we have moved from being a single service provider to being a
comprehensive service-solutions provider,” Landel said.
Companies are looking to reduce costs and outsourcing some
services allows them to make savings, he said.  Some developed markets such as the U.K. are likely to see
slower growth in the next few years because governments are
under pressure to balance their budgets, the CEO said. Emerging
markets such as Latin America and Asia are showing “double-
digit” growth, he also said.  Sodexo is bidding to renew an expired eight-year contract
with the U.S. Marines Corps and expects an answer in the “very
near future,” Landel said, without elaborating. The contract is
worth about $100 million a year. None of Sodexo’s contracts
account for more than 2 percent of sales, he said.  Dividend Growth  The U.S. armed forces may outsource other business, which
the company would be interested in bidding for, Landel also
said, without being more specific.  Dividend  growth will be in line with that of net income and
the payout will be about 50 percent of income, the CEO said.
Sodexo has more than 1 billion euros of cash, though isn’t
planning share buybacks, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Armorel Kenna  in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  