-- Soros Gold Bubble Expanding as ETP Holdings Increase
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n
-- 2010-11-22T16:26:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/soros-gold-bubble-expanding-as-etps-hold-9-years-of-u-s-output.html
Gold’s 23 percent surge this year to
a record is proving no deterrent to  George Soros ,  John Paulson 
and  Paul Touradji , whose investments signal more gains for the
longest winning streak in at least nine decades.  Securities and Exchange Commission filings this month by
Soros Fund Management LLC, Paulson & Co. and Touradji Capital
Management LP listed investments in gold as their biggest
holdings. Exchange-traded products own 2,088 metric tons, equal
to nine years of U.S. mine supply,  data  compiled by Bloomberg
show. Precious metals will produce the best commodity returns in
the next year, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a Nov. 9 report.  The purchases show how investors are snapping up hard
assets as governments and central banks led by the Federal
Reserve pump more than $2 trillion into the world financial
system. Gold in exchange-traded products, as much as half of
which may be held by individual investors according to BlackRock
Inc., is equal to more bullion than the  official reserves  of
every country except the U.S., Germany, Italy and France.  “People who are selling gold here are making a big
mistake,” said  Michael Pento , a senior economist at Euro
Pacific Capital Inc. in New York who correctly predicted gold’s
highs the past two years. “The gold bull market will end when
real  interest rates  become positive and we’re very far away from
that. The Fed believes it’s going to have to print more money to
keep real interest rates from rising and rescue the economy.”  Interest Rates  Gold gained 87 percent since September 2007 when the Fed
began cutting benchmark interest rates and global credit markets
started to falter. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of  shares  is
down 21 percent since then, even after last year jumping 23
percent, the most since 2003. The Fed has kept its benchmark
interest rate near zero since December 2008 and plans to pump
another $600 billion into the economy through June by purchasing
government bonds, a program known as quantitative easing.  The central bank bought $1.7 trillion of securities in a
first phase that ended in March. The  U.S. Dollar Index , tracking
the currency against six counterparts, slumped 8.5 percent in
the third quarter, the most in eight years.  “QE2 just further strengthens the already strong market
for hard assets like gold,” said  Michael Cuggino , who helps
manage $9 billion at Permanent Portfolio Funds in San Francisco,
and has about 20 percent of his assets in gold. “Real short-
term interest rates after inflation are still negative and until
that changes, commodities are going to continue to make higher
highs.”  Record Price  Gold, which doesn’t pay a dividend, reached a record
$1,424.60 an ounce in London on Nov. 9 and was at $1,351.65 at
3:47 p.m. Prices are heading for a 10th consecutive annual gain,
the best performance since at least 1920. The  S&P 500 Index 
returned about 9.5 percent with dividends reinvested, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, and Treasuries returned 7.3
percent by Nov. 19, a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index shows.  Other precious metals have done better this year. Silver
futures rose 61 percent through Nov. 19 and would have to gain
another 85 percent to reach the record $50.35 an ounce reached
in New York in 1980. Palladium advanced 72 percent in London and
would need to add another 60 percent to match the all-time high
of $1,125 an ounce reached in 2001.  Investors bought shares of ETPs representing 1,081 tons of
silver worth $945 million since the end of September, according
to data from four providers compiled by Bloomberg. Gold in ETPs
such as the SPDR Gold Trust, the biggest, fell 9.5 tons.
Investors may have considered silver cheap  relative  to gold and
bet that it would benefit from the economic recovery, said
 Daniel Briesemann , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.  ‘Biggest Drawback’  Industrial applications account for 9 percent of gold
consumption, while for silver it’s about 50 percent of demand,
according to GFMS Ltd., a London-based research firm.  Speculators in Comex gold futures cut their net-long
position, or bets on higher prices, by 11 percent to 218,479
contracts in the week ended Nov. 16,  data  from the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission show. That’s still about 40 percent
more than the average over the last five years.  “The biggest drawback for gold right now is that it’s just
so darn popular,” said  Barry James , who manages $2.2 billion as
chief executive officer of James Investment Research Inc. in
Xenia, Ohio. “Gold has become a fad and there’s a little mania
involved in this rally.”  Soros, who made $1 billion breaking the Bank of England’s
defense of the pound in 1992, described gold at the World
Economic Forum’s January meeting in Davos, Switzerland, as “the
ultimate asset bubble.” Buying at the start of a bubble is
“rational,” he said.  ‘Pretty Ideal’  “It’s all a question of where are you in that bubble,”
Soros, 80, said in a speech at a meeting organized by the
Canadian International Council in Toronto on Nov. 15. “The
current conditions of actual deflationary pressures and fear of
inflation is pretty ideal for gold to rise.”  “The big negative is that too many people know this and a
lot of hedge funds are very heavily exposed,” Soros said.
“Gold has shown tendencies to go parabolic and usually bubbles
tend to end in that parabolic rise before the collapse.”  Gold rose more than eightfold from 1976 to 1980, reaching a
then-record $850, before plunging 67 percent to as low as
$284.25 over the next five years. That peak adjusted for
inflation is equal to $2,266 today, based on a  calculator  on the
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis’ website.  Paulson & Co.  Paulson & Co., which manages $33 billion of assets, is the
largest investor in the SPDR Gold Trust and Johannesburg-based
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd., Africa’s biggest producer, an SEC filing
Nov. 15 and data compiled by Bloomberg show. The New York-based
fund is run by John Paulson, 54, who bet against U.S. mortgage
markets amid the subprime crisis. The company’s funds generated
profits of more than $3 billion in 2007.  Soros Fund Management, which according to Soros’s website
manages about $27 billion of assets, cut its holding in the  SPDR
Gold Trust  in the third quarter, and bought a stake in  iShares
Gold Trust , also backed by bullion. Soros listed NovaGold
Resources Inc., based in Vancouver, and Kinross Gold Corp.,
based in Toronto, among his fund’s 10-biggest holdings in an SEC
filing Nov. 15.  Touradji Capital Management maintained a holding worth
about $88 million in Toronto-based Barrick Gold Corp., the
world’s biggest gold mining company, an SEC filing on Nov. 12
showed. New York-based Paul Touradji, 39, also bought a stake
worth $1.7 million in Phoenix-based Freeport-McMoRan Copper &
Gold Inc., the filing shows.  The data on the holdings reflect the funds’ positions as of
the end of September. Spokesmen for the fund managers declined
to comment.  290 Tons  Investors in options on Comex gold futures are anticipating
the rally will continue. The second-most widely held option
gives holders the right to buy gold at $2,000 by November 2011.  Investors in gold-backed ETPs bought shares representing
290 tons this year, worth $12.6 billion, data from 10 providers
show. Investment overtook jewelry as the biggest source of
demand last year for the first time in three decades and will
retain the top spot this year, according to GFMS, which has a
team of 18 precious metals analysts.  Euro Pacific’s Pento says gold will go as high as $1,800 by
the end of next year. Pento correctly predicted in September
2009 that gold would reach $1,200 before the end of the year and
in July this year forecast $1,400.  Allison Nathan ,  Jeffrey Currie  and other analysts at
Goldman Sachs in London, New York and Hong Kong, are forecasting
$1,650 in 12 months. Precious metals will return 30 percent over
the period, more than energy, industrial metals and agriculture,
they said in a report Nov. 9.  ‘Gold Standard’  “I flagged gold, not as a potential return to the gold
standard, but as an indicator of lack of confidence in the
growth policies,” World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said in
an interview Nov. 10.  One-month implied volatility on the euro against the dollar
climbed to 14.49 earlier this month, the most since June.  “Gold is the preferred currency right now,” said  Ronald Stoeferle , an analyst at Erste Group Bank AG in Vienna who
expects gold to reach $1,600 by June. “The Fed can print and
produce money, but it cannot produce confidence and trust in the
U.S. dollar.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Pham-Duy Nguyen in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  