-- South Africa's Ruling Party Secures Diamond, Mineral Prospecting Rights
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2010-11-22T16:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/south-africa-s-ruling-party-secures-diamond-mineral-rights.html
South Africa’s government has
awarded the ruling African National Congress’s investment arm,
Chancellor House, the rights to prospect for diamonds and other
minerals in the country.  Chancellor has been awarded five of the 25 prospecting
rights it applied for so far, Zingaphi Jakuja, a spokeswoman for
the Department of Mineral Resources, said by phone from the
capital, Pretoria, today. The awards were made since 2004, the
department said in an e-mail, without giving details.  “This is wrong,” the Democratic Alliance said in a
statement yesterday. “It represents a conflict of interest, on
the one hand, and an attempt to use public resources and state
control to the benefit of the ANC on the other.”  The minerals department is obliged by law to award rights
if all criteria are met, regardless of the identity of the
applicant, Jakuja said. Mamatho Netsianda, head of Chancellor
House, didn’t respond to a message left on his mobile phone,
while  Mathews Phosa , treasurer of the ANC, said the party
wouldn’t speak on behalf of its investment arm.  City Press , a Johannesburg-based newspaper, first reported
the awards yesterday.  Concern over mining rights has grown this year as some of
the largest producers challenged issuances.  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd .
is challenging the award of a prospecting permit at its Sishen
iron ore mine to Imperial Crown Trading in court.  Lonmin Plc 
challenged the award of rights to Keysha Investments 220 Ltd. in
an area it claims to have rights.  The Mines Ministry said in August it had found
maladministration and suspended prospecting awards for six
months from September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 