-- Soybeans Rise in Chicago as Dry Weather Threatens Brazil, Argentina Crops
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2010-11-22T16:42:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/soybeans-rise-in-chicago-as-dry-weather-threatens-brazil-argentina-crops.html
Soybean futures rose on speculation
that dry weather will damage crops in parts of Brazil and
Argentina, the two biggest exporters after the U.S.  Fields in South America, some of which have received less
than 30 percent of normal rain since Oct. 1, will continue to be
dry for the next week, increasing stress on newly planted crops,
said  Mike Tannura , president of T-Storm Weather in Chicago. This
year, the region from central Argentina to southern Brazil has
received less rain than at the start of the severe drought two
years ago, Tannura said.  “The dry weather in parts of South America is
intensifying,” said  Mark Schultz , the chief analyst for
Northstar Commodity Investment Co. in Minneapolis. “The market
is adding some weather-risk premium.”  Soybean futures for January delivery rose 15.25 cents, or
1.3 percent, to $12.1675 a bushel at 10:40 a.m. on the Chicago
Board of Trade. The price touched $13.485 on Nov. 12, the
highest since August 2009, as Chinese demand surged.  Farmers in Brazil, the world’s second-largest grower,
planted 61 percent of their planned crop-area as of Nov. 12,
compared with 62 percent a year earlier, research firm Celeres
said last week.  In Argentina, planting was 41 percent completed as of last
week, down from 44 percent a year earlier, the Buenos Aires
Cereals Exchange said on Nov. 18.  La Nina, a weather event that forms in the equatorial
waters of Pacific Ocean, has increased the risk of dry weather
in South America from December to February when soybean plants
start to flower and produce pods, Tannura said.  Last week, prices tumbled 5.3 percent on concern that China
may raise interest rates to slow inflation, curbing demand for
raw materials.  Soybeans are the second-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $31.8
billion last year, government figures show. The country’s corn
crop was worth $48.6 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  