-- Spain, Portugal `Moderately Confident' of Hosting 2018 World Cup, CEO Says
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2010-11-22T23:29:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/spain-portugal-moderately-confident-of-hosting-2018-world-cup-ceo-says.html
The Spain/Portugal bid is
“moderately confident” of winning the right to host the 2018
World Cup, estimating it may get 8 of 22 votes in the first
round of voting, chief executive Miguel Angel Lopez said.  The bid is competing with England, Russia and a joint
Netherlands/Belgium candidature in the Dec. 2 vote in Zurich by
the executive committee of world soccer ruling body FIFA. The
contest will be close, Lopez said.  “It won’t be a big win in our favor or a big loss against
us,” Lopez said in an interview.  The Spain/Portugal bid is third-favorite to get the 2018
event at 7-2 with bookmaker  William Hill Plc  behind Russia and
England at 10-11 and 6-4, respectively. The Netherlands/Belgium
bid is the 50-1 outsider. A success $1 bet on Spain/Portugal
would yield $3.50 plus the original stake.  An investigation into allegations of vote exchanging by
Spain/Portugal and Qatar, one of five countries bidding for the
2022 World Cup, was dropped by FIFA on Nov. 18. The 2022 host
will also be decided on Dec. 2.  FIFA Security Advisor Chris Eaton sent an e-mail to the
Iberian bid in October saying he may need assistance with the
investigation, only to say a week later in another e-mail it
wasn’t necessary, according to Lopez.  “If there was something, they would have done more,”
Lopez said.  FIFA “did what was necessary” with its investigation into
collusion, Claudio Sulser, chairman of FIFA’s ethics committee,
told a Nov. 18 news conference, adding those involved were asked
to submit written statements.  “We looked at the situation, we evaluated the difficulty
of reaching a conclusion and procedural aspects confirmed our
position,” Sulser told reporters.  Probes  In a separate ruling last week, FIFA suspended two
executive committees, Tahiti’s Reynald Temarii and Nigeria’s
 Amos Adamu  after London’s Sunday Times newspaper said the pair
would trade cash for their vote.  Spain/Portugal is counting on the votes of three South
American executives because Latin America “is our natural
territory,” although it doesn’t expect support from three
Europeans including  Michel Platini , president of European ruling
body UEFA, Lopez said.  “They haven’t given us any indication they will” vote for
us, Lopez said. The bid is more optimistic about support from
four Asian executives, he added.  If none of the bids secures an absolute majority in the
first round of voting, the bidder with the least backing will
drop out in subsequent rounds, according to  FIFA rules .  Spain, which won its first World Cup in South Africa in
July, hosted the 1982 edition of the tournament. Portugal hasn’t
organized the event before.  The Iberian bid is asking Real Madrid to let  Cristiano Ronaldo  and  Iker Casillas , the captains of Portugal and Spain,
to attend the vote, Lopez said, adding the club’s Portuguese
coach  Jose Mourinho  might also attend.  Even if they go to Zurich it’s probably be too late to
influence the vote, Lopez said.  “All the fish is sold,” Lopez said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:  Alex Duff  at
   aduff4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  