-- Sri Lanka's Postwar Boom Not Enough to Lure Investors Wary of Corruption
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2010-11-23T06:25:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/sri-lanka-s-postwar-boom-not-enough-to-lure-investors-wary-of-corruption.html
With a postcard view of white sand
and fishermen drawing in nets from the morning catch, the  Chaaya
Blu Hotel  could be mistaken for a resort in Bali or Phuket. In
fact it’s in Trincomalee, Sri Lanka, a country that 18 months
ago saw the bloodiest battles of a three-decade civil war.  “You went out every day not knowing what would happen,”
said  Richard Vokes , the country director for Asian Development
Bank. Vokes used to don a flak jacket and helmet before
traveling the heavily guarded 160 mile (257 kilometer) journey
to the north-eastern city from the capital Colombo.  Since government forces defeated the Tamil Tigers rebels in
May 2009, the sandbags and checkpoints have mostly gone. In the
capital, tourists stroll along the palm-fringed seaside
promenade while locals fly kites in front of Colombo’s British
colonial-era  Galle Face Hotel . Living in Sri Lanka is now “a
very pleasant experience,” said Vokes, whose bank had almost $2
billion in loans to Sri Lanka at the end of 2009.  The Manila-based lender expects Sri Lanka’s economy to grow
as much as 8 percent this year and next. Colombo’s stock market
is the world’s second-best performer in 2010, after Mongolia,
nearly doubling in value. A $1 billion sovereign bond issued in
late September was 6.3 times oversubscribed.  Visits from foreigners have risen 40 percent so far this
year and may top 600,000 for 2010, according to the government,
which aims to raise the number to 2.5 million by 2016, enticing
travelers with white-sand beaches, leopard safaris and mountain
temples.  ‘Closed Shop’  “Sri Lanka has been a closed shop for 30 years,” said
 Joseph Michael Suresh Brito , chief executive officer of Colombo-
based  Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings , which is building a $40
million villa resort on the south coast with Bangkok-based  Six
Senses Resorts & Spas . “People will come with no fear.”  Overseas investors remain concerned about corruption and red
tape. Foreign direct investment fell to $208 million in the
first six months, from $253 million in the same period of 2009.  “There is a lot of renewed interest, but most of it is yet
to be realized,” said Nick Nicolaou, Sri Lanka chief for
London-based bank  HSBC Holdings Plc .  Tourism is one of the top three industries the government
is counting on to reduce Sri Lanka’s reliance on the garment
trade and low-end manufacturing. At least six hotels are in the
works, including a $150 million resort by Hong Kong’s  Shangri-La
Asia Ltd.  on a former military helipad on Colombo’s waterfront.  Resort Refurbishing  John Keells Hotels Plc.  spent $40.5 million refurbishing
the Chaaya Blu and is building a $20 million, 200-room resort in
Beruwala, south of Colombo, said  Krishan Balendra , president of
corporate finance & group strategy at parent company  John Keells
Holdings Plc , Sri Lanka’s largest listed company.  The government is promoting back-office and call-center
operators, which already employ 60,000 and may bring in revenue
of $350 million this year. By 2015 the government hopes business
processing outsourcing, or BPO revenue will reach $1 billion.  “The BPO potential is very high,” says Nicolaou at HSBC,
which employs 1,800 people doing back-office work in Colombo.  Agricultural exports, the third priority, grew 21 percent
in the first eight months of the year, as farms that lay fallow
during the conflict yield crops of rice, lentils, and beans.  Investment Rules  Sri Lanka is also aiming to boost investment flows in and
out of the country, with the government yesterday loosening
foreign-exchange controls. Sri Lankans will be allowed to invest
in shares overseas and foreigners to invest in Sri Lankan
corporate bonds. Authorities said they will reduce levies on
tourism and construction companies.  Overseas investors say the Board of Investment, a
government agency that must approve foreign-funded projects,
makes it difficult to do business in the country.  “It’s fair to say we could improve our services,” said
the board’s chairman, Jayampathi Bandaranayake, adding that the
new focus on priority areas will simplify the approval process
and offer more incentives to investors.  Berlin-based watchdog  Transparency International  ranked Sri
Lanka 91st out of 178 countries on Oct. 26 in terms of
corruption, one spot behind India and 90 places below Singapore.  While Bandaranayake of the BOI acknowledges that corruption
is a problem, he said it’s no worse than in neighboring nations.  In July the European Union rescinded Sri Lanka’s
preferential trade access because of the country’s human rights
record, particularly due to violence in the final weeks of the
war that killed as many as 15,000 civilians.  European Criticism  Presidential spokesman Lucien Rajakarunanayake said human
rights issues are “the highest priority” for parliament and
called the EU conditions “unacceptable.”  Some investors are concerned by the growing power of
President  Mahinda Rajapaksa . After Rajapaksa was elected to a
second term in January and his party swept elections in April,
parliament lifted the two-term limit for the presidency. Three
of Rajapaksa’s brothers hold top government posts and his 24-
year-old son is in parliament.  “We haven’t seen evidence of it yet, but if the family’s
power is used in the wrong way, then we have a big problem,”
said  Mark Mobius , who holds Sri Lankan stocks and bonds as part
of the $33 billion he manages at Templeton Asset Management Ltd.  One country quick to take advantage of the boom is China. A
$455 million loan from the  Export-Import Bank of China  paid for
a 300-megawatt power plant, Sri Lanka’s first coal-fired
facility, at Norochcholai, a coastal village 120 kilometers
north of Colombo. The plant is scheduled to open next year.  Chinese Loans  Another $560 million in loans from China will go toward new
roads, including a 32-kilometer expressway from the capital to
its airport. Chinese companies are building a $1.4 billion port
in Hambantota and a $210 million airport in nearby Mattala.  China Merchants Holdings International Co. , which has
stakes in ports that move about a third of China’s container
traffic, has teamed up with Aitken Spence to build a $450
million container terminal in Colombo port.  “We aim to be among the 10 largest ports in the world by
2020, up from 27th last year,” said Sri Lanka Ports Authority
Chairman Priyath B. Wickrama in his office in a 19th century
warehouse with exposed teak beams, overlooking a 6.8 kilometer
breakwater being built by Seoul-based  Hyundai Engineering &
Construction Co.   Swiss cement maker  Holcim Ltd. ’s Sri Lanka business is up
22 percent this year, thanks to construction of roads, bridges
and buildings in war-ravaged areas like Trincomalee, said Stefan
Huber, Sri Lanka CEO for the Jona-based company.  “There are already a lot of hotel projects like Chaaya
Blu,” he said. “It’s a great time to be here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frederik Balfour  in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at   sfoxwell@bloomberg.net . 