-- Sukuk Drop Most Since May as Ireland Crisis Deters Funds: Islamic Finance
-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 2010-11-22T07:58:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/sukuk-drop-most-in-6-months-on-ireland-crisis-islamic-finance.html
Islamic bonds slumped last week by
the most since May as Ireland sought aid to shore up its banking
system, reducing demand for the yield premium available on sukuk
and damping the outlook for new sales.  Average yields climbed 22 basis points to 4.88 percent,
according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index .
Trading volumes declined because of the holiday in the Persian
Gulf from Nov. 15 to Nov. 18 to celebrate the Muslim festival of
Eid-al-Adha, according to Kuala Lumpur-based CIMB-Principal
Islamic Asset Management Bhd.  Sales of Islamic bonds, which pay asset returns to comply
with the religion’s ban on interest, dropped this year due to
debt restructurings and falling property prices in the Middle
East. The sell-off may persist through to the year-end as
investors seek safer securities on concern European governments
will struggle to finance budget deficits, said  Zeid Ayer , a
portfolio manager at CIMB-Principal Islamic.  “There have been concerns on Europe’s debt and emerging
markets have generally been affected by that,” Zeid, who helps
oversee $1.6 billion of Shariah-compliant assets, said in an
interview on Nov. 19. “I haven’t been active in the past couple
of weeks, partly because of the holidays.”  The  difference  between the average yield for sukuk and the
London interbank offered rate widened eight basis points last
week to 341 basis points, the most since the week ended Oct. 22,
according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index.  ‘Tens of Billions’  The yield  premium  investors demand to hold Ireland’s 10-
year government bonds over German bunds widened to a record 646
points on Nov. 11, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Ireland will accept aid from the European Union and
International Monetary Fund and Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan 
said yesterday the loan will be less than 100 billion euros
($137.5 billion).  “Appetite for risk has turned 180 degrees as we approach
the end of the year,”  Gerald Ambrose , head of Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc’s Malaysian unit, said in an interview from Kuala
Lumpur on Nov. 19. “Definitely, there are more sellers than
buyers.” Aberdeen’s global units oversee more than $243 billion
including Shariah-compliant funds, he said.  Total sales of Islamic bonds dropped 29 percent to $13.7
billion this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales of ringgit-denominated sukuk in Malaysia, the world’s
biggest market, fell 31 percent to 21.4 billion ringgit ($6.9
billion). Offerings from the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council
declined 36 percent to $3.97 billion.  Real Estate Slump  Average yields on sukuk from the GCC, which includes
Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab
Emirates, increased last week. The rate rose 25 basis points to
5.74 percent and has climbed 43 basis points in two weeks,
according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index.   A 50 percent slump in real-estate prices in Dubai, the
Persian Gulf’s financial hub, since 2008 hurt sukuk issuance
from the region. Dubai World said in September it reached an
accord with most of its creditors to restructure $24.9 billion
of debt. Nakheel PJSC, a unit of Dubai World, said on July 14
that a group of its creditors unanimously supported a plan to
alter the terms on $10.5 billion of debt.  Flight to Quality  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due in
June 2015 rose two basis points today to 2.81 percent, extending
last week’s 12-point climb, according to prices provided by
Royal Bank of Scotland Group. It has advanced 48 basis points
from a record low 2.33 percent on Nov. 4. Yields on the Dubai
government sukuk rose four basis points to 6.69 percent. The
difference in yield between Dubai’s notes and Malaysia’s widened
11 basis points in the five days to Nov. 19 to 386.  Shariah-compliant bonds returned 11.6 percent this year,
according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index. Debt
in emerging markets gained 14.4 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Diversified Index shows.  “If news out of Europe continues to be bad, there will be
a natural flight to quality because people want safer assets,”
said Zeid at CIMB-Principal Islamic, a joint venture between
U.S.-based Principal Global Investors and Malaysia’s CIMB Group
Holdings Bhd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net . 