-- Sweden Says $15 Billion Asset Sale to Be Guided by Returns for Taxpayers
-- B y   K i m   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-11-22T13:02:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/sweden-says-15-billion-asset-sale-to-be-guided-by-returns-for-taxpayers.html
Sweden will only move ahead with
plans to divest 100 billion kronor ($14.6 billion) of state
assets if it’s clear a sale will generate the best returns for
tax payers, Financial Markets Minister  Peter Norman  said.  “There is no ideological reason to sell and the only
concern here is the tax payers’ best interest,” Norman said
today in an interview in Stockholm. “If we see that the markets
are good and the companies are ready we will sell -- and we
haven’t ruled out any method.”  Sweden’s debt office this month predicted a lower borrowing
need for the largest Nordic economy, which this year is poised
to deliver the biggest economic rebound in the European Union.
Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  has been able to avoid
austerity measures hampering other EU members as Sweden benefits
from the bloc’s second-smallest deficit after Luxembourg.
The debt office on Nov. 16 said it isn’t expecting any asset
sales until 2012, when it predicts divestments will boost
revenue by 35 billion kronor.  The government plans to sell all or part of its stakes in
 Nordea Bank AB ,  TeliaSonera AB  and wholly owned mortgage lender
SBAB by the end of 2014 and has indicated it may also consider
divesting a minority stake in utility Vattenfall AB. Sweden,
which owns about 20 percent of Nordea and 37 percent of
TeliaSonera, ear-marked the assets for sale four years ago.  Norman, formerly the chief executive officer of Swedish
state-run pension fund AP7, was named financial markets minister
last month, replacing  Mats Odell . Norman said the government is
considering all options for divesting SBAB, including an initial
public offering of shares.  Nordea, the largest Nordic lender, fell 1.2 percent to 70.8
kronor as of 1:42 p.m. in Stockholm, valuing the company at 286
billion kronor. TeliaSonera was 0.6 percent down at 55.70
kronor. Sweden’s benchmark index of the country’s top 30 stocks
has gained 16.5 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kim McLaughlin  in Stockholm at 
 Kmclaughlin6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  