-- Sweden's Borg Says Irish Loan Will Depend On `Credible' Restructuring Plan
-- B y   T o b y   A l d e r   a n d   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2010-11-22T13:52:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/sweden-s-borg-says-irish-loan-will-depend-on-credible-restructuring-plan.html
Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg 
said his country will only provide a loan to Ireland if the euro
member delivers a “credible” restructuring of its public
finances.  “We stand ready to consider a Swedish bilateral loan to
Ireland, but it is very important to underline that this needs
broad political support in the Swedish parliament before we can
go through with such a program,” Borg said in an interview in
Stockholm today. “It also requires that we see a very
sustainable and very credible fiscal restructuring from Ireland
and that they have a bank restructuring that is perceived to be
credible.”  Ireland yesterday became the second euro country to seek a
rescue package from the European Union and International
Monetary Fund as the cost of saving its banks threatened a rerun
of the Greek debt crisis that destabilized the single currency.
Any Swedish contribution would be “relatively limited,” Borg
said at a press conference earlier today.  “What we are talking about is possible bilateral loans and
they would be similar to those given to Iceland and Latvia,”
Borg said. “We’ve lent 4.4 billion kronor ($638 million) to
Iceland, or we’ve reserved that much, and about half has been
utilized. For Latvia we’re talking about 6.8 billion kronor and
nothing has been utilized.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  estimates an Irish rescue package
may total 95 billion euros ($130 billion).  Any bailout package “obviously needs to be credible enough
to clarify that Ireland as a state is out of the market for some
time and also sufficient to recapitalize the banks,” Borg said
in the interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Toby Alder  in Stockholm at 
 talder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  