-- Swiss Stocks Slump Amid Ireland Rescue; Financials, Lonza Slide
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2010-11-22T17:17:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/swiss-stocks-are-little-changed-transocean-climbs-ubs-declines.html
Stocks in Switzerland fell, trimming
last week’s rally for the Swiss Market Index, as Ireland’s
request for a bailout failed to ease concern that Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis will spread further.  UBS AG  and  Credit Suisse Group AG , the nation’s largest
banks, each fell 2.1 percent.  Lonza Group AG  led declines on the
SMI, sinking 4.3 percent. Comet Holding AG surged 8.2 percent as
Vontobel raised its price estimate on the stock.  The SMI  of the biggest and most actively traded companies
fell 0.9 percent to 6,532.64 at the 5:30 p.m. close of trading
in Zurich, after increasing 1.3 percent last week. The gauge has
rallied 9 percent since its low this year in July amid optimism
that the economic recovery will continue as companies reported
better-than-estimated earnings and central banks from Japan to
the U.S. said they will support growth. The broader Swiss
Performance Index dropped 0.7 percent to 5,824.16 today.  “It was no surprise to the market that there was
eventually a rescue package defined over the weekend and it was
already priced in at the end of last week,” said Zug,
Switzerland-based  Oliver Prock , chief executive officer of Salus
Alpha Group AG, which manages over $1 billion of assets.  Ireland became the second euro country to seek a rescue as
the cost of saving its banks threatened a rerun of the Greek
debt crisis that destabilized the currency.  Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  told reporters late
yesterday that Ireland will channel some of the money from the
European Union and International Monetary Fund to lenders
through a “contingent” capital fund. The rest of the package,
which Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimates may total 95 billion
euros ($131 billion), would help Ireland avoid selling bonds.  Big Problem  “The banks were too big a problem for the country,”
Lenihan said in Dublin. “The key issue all the time for the
government is to ensure that we do not have a collapse of the
banking sector.”  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of euro-area
finance ministers, said the rescue will total “less than” 100
billion euros ($137 billion).  A bailout option for Ireland reduces uncertainty and
reinforces the confidence of markets, said Portuguese Finance
Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos in a statement e-mailed
last night. “It is, without a doubt, a positive fact for the
stability of the euro zone,” he said.  Portugal aims to meet a target of cutting its budget
deficit to 4.6 percent of gross domestic product in 2011. The
budget for next year will be approved this week in a final vote
in parliament following an “important” political agreement.  Lenders Retreat  UBS lost 2.1 percent to 16.10 francs, while Credit Suisse
also fell 2.1 percent to 40.14 francs.  Julius Baer Group Ltd. ,
the 120-year old private bank, shed 1.8 percent to 38.91 francs.
Bank stocks were the worst performers in the benchmark  Stoxx
Europe 600 Index  as Bank of Ireland Plc and Irish Life &
Permanent Plc plunged in Dublin trading on concern that a new
state bailout will dilute existing investors’ stakes in the
lenders.  Lonza tumbled 4.3 percent to 80 francs. “If you want
healthcare exposure there are other things of more interest at
the moment,” said  Jacob Thrane , equities analyst at Standard &
Poor’s, in a phone call. Lonza “needs to deliver on internal
optimization and win some more contracts,” said Thrane, who has
a “sell” rating on the stock. The shares have retreated 6.5
percent since Thursday.  Actelion Ltd.  lost 1.6 percent to 55.55 francs after
surging 12 percent last week on speculation of a takeover bid by
Amgen Inc.  Comet, Schaffner  Comet Holding AG , the world’s biggest maker of industrial
X-ray machines, soared 8.2 percent to 205 francs after Vontobel
analyst  Andreas Escher  raised its price estimate 14 percent to
240 francs from 210 francs. Escher has a “buy” rating on the
stock.  Schaffner Holding AG, an electrical components maker,
gained 3 percent to 237.9 francs after announcing it has
received a multi-year order from a “major European automobile
manufacturer.”  “We think Schaffner is realizing only a part of the
substantial growth potential of electrical vehicles and we
expect more contract announcements to follow in the next two
years,” said Helvea analyst  Reto Amstalden  in a research note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Giles Broom  in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 