-- U.S. Office Rebound to Be Delayed by `Shadow' Space, Rosen Says
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2010-11-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/u-s-office-rebound-to-be-delayed-by-shadow-space-berkeley-s-rosen-says.html
The U.S. office sector will be the
slowest to recover as companies absorb empty space and advances
in technology reduce the need for square footage, said  Kenneth Rosen , a professor at the University of California, Berkeley.  Unoccupied “shadow inventory” accounts for 3 percent to 5
percent of total business leases, and that space will be filled
before firms sign new rental agreements, Rosen, chairman of
Berkeley’s Fisher Center for Real Estate and Urban Economics,
said at a conference in San Francisco. Cloud computing and other
tech advances let employees work away from offices, further
reducing space needs, he said.  “Every company has shadow space,” Rosen, who also runs
Berkeley-based hedge fund Rosen Real Estate Securities LLC, said
in an interview yesterday. Most U.S. cities face prolonged
vacancies because of the surplus, excepting Washington, New
York, San Francisco, Boston and parts of the Silicon Valley,
where technology and venture capital spur leasing, he said.  “If you’re in the knowledge-based industries such as VC,
everything ‘green’ and social media, there is a large, growing
demand for space,” Rosen said.  The average vacancy rate in U.S. central business districts
fell to 14.7 percent in the third quarter from 14.8 percent in
the second quarter, Cushman & Wakefield Inc. said last month.
The overall rate including suburban areas rose to 17.5 percent,
the highest since 1993, from 17.4 percent, according to the New
York-based broker.  Prices for  U.S. commercial property  rose in September after
falling to an eight-year low the previous month, Moody’s
Investors Service said yesterday. Demand for the best office
buildings in major markets pushed up the Moody’s/REAL Commercial
Property Price Index 0.3 percent from a year earlier as
investors sought returns higher than fixed income. Prices gained
4.3 percent from August.  Rise in CMBS  The issuance of commercial mortgage backed securities is
likely to increase to $25 billion next year and $60 billion by
2013, driven by investors in highly rated portions who demand
more conservative underwriting and protection, Rosen said. CMBS
peaked at $234 billion in 2007 before the credit bubble burst
and sales plunged 95 percent the following year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Demographic trends, the high cost of new construction and
record home foreclosures make companies that own  apartments  good
investments, according to Rosen. Senior housing is a “sweet
spot,” as are multifamily properties in cities with workers
aged 20 to 34, he said.  Interest rates on 10-year Treasury notes will rise to as
high as 5.5 percent in two to three years, so real estate
investors with good credit and long-term tenants should take
advantage of current low rates, Rosen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Levy  in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  