-- U.S. Stocks Drop Amid Irish Bailout, Fund Raids in Insider-Trading Probe
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   S t a n t o n
-- 2010-11-22T22:17:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/u-s-stock-index-futures-rise-on-ireland-rescue-barrick-merck-advance.html
U.S. stocks fell, ending a three-day
gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, amid speculation an
Irish bailout will fail to stem Europe’s debt crisis and as
federal agents raided hedge funds to probe insider trading.  Bank of America Corp.  and JPMorgan Chase & Co. led a drop
in the Dow Jones Industrial Average, sinking more than 2.2
percent.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  slid the most in six months
after a report the securities firm is also involved in the U.S.
insider-trading investigation.  Hewlett-Packard Co.  rose 1.8
percent ahead of its earnings report.  Amazon.com Inc.  gained 3.4
percent, driving consumer companies higher before the start of
the holiday shopping season.  The  S&P 500  lost 0.2 percent to 1,197.84 as of 4 p.m. in
New York, after rising 1.8 percent over the last three days. The
 Dow  slipped 24.97 points, or 0.2 percent, to 11,178.58.  “There’s still fear of dominoes falling one by one,” said
 Madelynn Matlock , who helps oversee $13.8 billion at Huntington
Asset Advisors in Cincinnati. “Everybody knew that Ireland
would take a bailout. However, you still have the underlying
issues with the whole European debt situation. Even if you have
a better economy, you still have costs associated with getting
rid of these hangovers.”  The  S&P 500  has risen 17 percent from its 2010 low on July
2 as the Federal Reserve prepared to increase asset purchases to
stimulate growth and as quarterly results at companies surpassed
analyst projections. The index fell the most in almost three
months on Nov. 16 amid speculation the debt crisis in Europe is
worsening and concerns that China will act to slow its economy.  Ratings Cut  Moody’s Investors Service said it may cut Ireland’s rating
by more than anticipated as the package, which Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. estimates may total 95 billion euros ($130 billion),
may increase the country’s debt burden as the cost of rescuing
the financial system make it vulnerable to a rerun of the Greek
debt crisis that destabilized the common European currency.  Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  said his government will
resign after passing the country’s budget, responding to calls
from the  Green Party  for January elections amid voter discontent
at his handling of the crisis.  Financial shares had the biggest drop among 10 industries
in the  S&P 500  as the FBI raided the offices of three hedge
funds as part of insider-trading investigations directed by
Manhattan U.S. attorney Preet Bharara, according to a person
familiar with the probes.  Level Global, Diamondback  The offices of Level Global Investors LP and Diamondback
Capital Management LLC in the southern Connecticut cities of
Greenwich and Stamford were searched by officers, the FBI said.
Agents also executed a warrant at Boston-based Loch Capital
Management, according to another person familiar with the
matter. Both people declined to be named because the
investigation is ongoing.  “This FBI probe seems to be gaining some legs,” said  Dan Deming , a trader at Stutland Equities LLC on the floor of the
Chicago Board Options Exchange. “The banking sector is feeling
some heat across the board as the feds seem to be stepping up
their game a little bit. It’s definitely having an impact.”  Bank of America declined 3.1 percent to $11.30. JPMorgan
Chase retreated 2.3 percent $38.51. Goldman Sachs fell 3.4
percent to $161.05, the biggest drop since May 18.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and other
federal officials are nearing the end of a probe into possible
insider-trading networks including consultants, hedge-fund and
mutual-fund traders and investment bankers, the Wall Street
Journal reported on Nov. 19, citing unidentified people familiar
with the situation.  ‘Confidence Game’  One of the focuses of the probe is whether Goldman Sachs
bankers divulged information about health-care acquisitions and
other transactions, the newspaper said.  “The market is in large part a confidence game,” said
 James Gaul , a money manager at Boston Advisors LLC in Boston,
which manages $1.7 billion. “If the perception is that there
are a number of bad actors out there that are fixing the system,
you’re going to get a little bit of confidence coming out.”  U.S. banks could lose more than $100 billion if they are
forced to buy back soured mortgage loans, Barron’s reported over
the weekend. In addition, the Financial Times said the top 35
U.S. banks will be short of between $100 billion and $150
billion after new international capital requirements are
imposed.  The  S&P 500 , which is up 7.4 percent this year, trades at
15 times earnings. The valuation is near the most expensive
level since the end of June.  ‘Overvalued, Overbought, Overbullish’  “The overall climate that I would characterize as
overvalued, overbought, overbullish and coupled with rising
yields, that combination historically has not worked out well
for the stock market,” said  John Hussman , whose $2.33 billion
Hussman Strategic Total Return Funds has beaten 99 percent of
peers in the past five years, Bloomberg data show.  Stocks pared declines amid a rally in technology shares and
companies that rely on consumer discretionary spending.  Hewlett-Packard  rose 1.8 percent to $43.25, the biggest
advance in the Dow average, and extended gains after the close
of regular trading. The largest computer maker forecast first-
quarter profit that exceeded analysts’ estimates as corporations
step up buying of personal computers, printers, servers and
networking gear.  Excluding some costs,  profit  will be $1.28 to $1.30 a share
in the three-month period ending in January.  Sales  will be $32.8
billion to $33 billion. Analysts had  estimated  earnings per
shares of $1.22 and $32.8 billion in revenue, according to
Bloomberg data.  Earnings Scorecard  Earnings per share have topped analysts’ estimates at 76
percent of the 460 companies in the S&P 500 that have reported
quarterly results since Oct. 7, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Net income rose 28 percent as sales increased 8.7
percent in the period.  Amazon.com jumped 3.4 percent to $170.39, leading retailers
up 1 percent collectively, the biggest gain among 24 groups in
the S&P 500.  For the first time since the financial crisis started, U.S.
shares are moving independently of the bond market, a sign that
profits and valuations are guiding investors more than concern
about the economy.  The 30-day  correlation  coefficient measuring how often the
S&P 500 moves in tandem with 10-year Treasury yields fell to
minus 0.42 from a record 0.89 in June, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Readings of 1 indicate prices are moving
together, while zero shows no link and minus 1 means they are
going in opposite directions. Stocks and debt are ending a
lockstep relationship that began in July 2007 and lasted through
the worst recession since the 1930s.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Elizabeth Stanton  in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 