-- Humana to Buy Closely Held Concentra for $790 Million To Add More Services
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2010-11-22T21:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/humana-agrees-to-acquire-health-care-provider-concentra-for-790-million.html
Humana Inc. , the health plan with
the best-performing stock this year, agreed to buy  Concentra
Inc.  for $790 million, expanding into medical services as it
faces funding cuts and regulation from the U.S. health-care law.  The cash deal is expected to close next month and add
slightly to earnings next year, the Louisville, Kentucky-based
insurer said today in a statement. Closely held Concentra, based
in Addison, Texas, generates about $800 million in yearly
revenue from 240 workplace health-care facilities and more than
300 medical centers in 42 states, Humana said.  Insurers want to diversify as the health law squeezes the
profits they can make from selling benefits, and as they prepare
for millions of new customers to be gained from the legislation,
said  Dave Shove , a BMO Capital Markets analyst in New York.
Today’s deal will provide urgent care, wellness programs, and
physical and occupational therapy to 3 million Humana members
near a Concentra center, Humana said in its statement.  “Humana is convinced that there’s going to be more and
more of a retail mindset to health care,” Shove said today in a
telephone interview. “Like all retailers, they want to have
more ways to build a relationship with their consumer and this
is another step in that direction.”  Humana rose $2.31, or 4.1 percent, to $58.34 at 4:01 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest
single-day increase in more than five months. The shares have
gained 33 percent this year,  outperforming  the 5 other members
of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Managed Health Care Index.  Humana Acquisitions  Humana has announced 11 pending or completed acquisitions
in the past five years, with an average price of $234.2 million
and an average premium of 34 percent. Concerta would be the
largest deal in that period, according to Bloomberg data.  Humana said last week that it expects earnings to fall next
year as the health law reduces government spending for private
insurers providing Medicare plans for the elderly. Medicare
premiums accounted for 61 percent of the company’s $31 billion
in  revenue  last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’re looking at the aging of the baby boomer
population” and a projected shortage of primary-care doctors in
the U.S., Jim Turner, a Humana spokesman, said in a telephone
interview. “We just see a greater need for access to the kind
of care that Concentra provides.”  The acquisition gives Humana “both revenue diversification
and opportunities for strategic expansion longer term,” said
 Michael B. McCallister , Humana’s chief executive officer, in the
statement.  Adding Concentra will move Humana back toward its  roots  as
a medical provider and a managed-care company, Turner said.
Humana began as a nursing-home company in 1961 and grew into the
largest owner of U.S. hospitals in the 1980s until that side of
the business was spun off in 1993, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Nussbaum  in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 