-- Mumbai's Second Airport Wins Environmental Approval as Travel Demand Jumps
-- B y   S u b r a m a n i a m   S h a r m a   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2010-11-22T11:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/mumbai-s-second-airport-wins-environmental-approval-as-travel-demand-jumps.html
India’s environment ministry
approved construction of a 150 billion-rupee ($3.3 billion)
airport in  Mumbai , the nation’s financial capital, as rising
wages stoke air travel.  “There will be a huge benefit,” Civil Aviation Minister
 Praful Patel  told reporters in New Delhi today.
“Industrialization, tourism, commerce and of course,
connectivity for the people will grow the economy of the area.”  The second Mumbai airport, in the eastern suburb of Navi
Mumbai, will have a capacity of 10 million passengers a year
when the first phase is completed by 2014, Prithviraj Chavan,
chief minister of Maharashtra state, told reporters at the event.
A private partner will hold a 74 percent stake, according to
Tanaji Satre, managing director of City & Industrial Development
Corp. of Maharashtra Ltd.  Mumbai’s exiting airport also plans to more than double
capacity by 2013 as accelerating growth in Asia’s third-largest
economy boosts travel in a nation already struggling with
airfield overcrowding and flight delays. Domestic air traffic
may surge fourfold to 180 million passengers annually by 2020,
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said July 3.  Mangrove Swamps  The new Mumbai airport was approved after the government
imposed 32 conditions partly to help preserve mangrove swamps,
said Environment Minister  Jairam Ramesh . These included
narrowing the distance between runways to avoid diverting a
river.  The government may take a year to select a private partner
for the project, said Patel. The government gave ‘in-principle’
approval to the Navi Mumbai airport in July 2007, according to
the Ministry of Civil Aviation’s  website .  Mumbai, the capital of Maharashtra, is home to the
country’s central bank and its largest stock exchange. The city
of 18 million also houses the headquarters of  Reliance
Industries Ltd. , India’s biggest company by market value, and of
Tata Group, which controls Jaguar Land Rover.  GVK Group, operator of the existing  Mumbai airport , is
expanding the facility to handle 40 million passengers a year
from about 16 million as of October, said Manish Kalghatgi, a
spokesman.  The government has already approved new airports in Goa,
Maharashtra and Karnataka, and has received proposals for
airports in the states of Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat.  New Delhi’s airport opened a new terminal in July, more
than doubling the facility’s capacity.  GMR Infrastructure Ltd. 
built the terminal in 37 months, faster than the 45 months
Beijing took to complete its terminal ahead of the Olympics.  Boeing Forecast  Boeing Co.  in August raised its 20-year forecast for Indian
aircraft demand by 15 percent and said the nation’s airline
passenger numbers may climb to a record 50 million this year
from 44 million in 2009.  The nation’s Planning Commission said India will need to
spend $1 trillion on highways, ports, airports and utilities
between April 2012 and March 2017, twice the amount it
recommended in the previous five years. At least half the
investment should come from private companies, it said.  Domestic airlines in India carried 42 million passengers
from January through October, 18 percent more than the year-
earlier period,  according  to the Civil Aviation Ministry.  India’s gross domestic product grew  8.8 percent  in the
three months ended in June from a year earlier, the fastest pace
in more than two years. The economy will grow 8.5 percent in the
year ending in March, Prime Minister Singh said last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Subramaniam Sharma  in New Delhi at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net ;
 Siddharth Philip  in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 