-- Hungary May Cripple Independent Budget Watchdog With `Chavez' Spending Cut
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2010-11-22T15:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/hungary-may-cripple-independent-budget-watchdog-with-chavez-spending-cut.html
The Hungarian government’s backing
of a proposal to cut the independent  Fiscal Council’s  funding
would render the budget watchdog unable to effectively oversee
the country’s finances, Merrill Lynch said.  “It’s bad news,”  Raffaella Tenconi , a London-based
economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said in a phone
interview today. “The reduction of the council’s funding limits
its ability to perform its tasks. We view it as a negative
development and one that calls into question Prime Minister
Viktor Orban’s commitment to fiscal prudence.”  The amendment, to the 2011 budget, proposed by a ruling-
party lawmaker, would reduce the council’s budget to 10 million
forint ($50,000) next year from 835.5 million forint. Fidesz
lawmakers, who have a two-thirds majority in the legislature,
will vote in favor of the bill, news website  Index  reported,
citing the party press office.  The Fiscal Council was set up last year to oversee budget
planning and execution after the country’s spending binge forced
it to obtain an  International Monetary Fund -led bailout.
Scrapping the body would be following in the footsteps of
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , said  Gyorgy Kopits , the
Council’s chairman.  The forint fell 0.1 percent to 273.803 per euro by 4 p.m.
in Budapest, declining for a fourth day. The country’s benchmark
BUX stock index fell 0.3 percent to 22,430.81.  Budget Holes  The government’s budget plans, which include temporary
industry-specific taxes and funneling private-pension
contributions to the state, will create a $2.5 billion annual
hole from 2012 unless structural spending cuts are implemented
to balance income tax cuts, the council said today, according to
the Budapest-based newspaper Vilaggazdasag.  The transparency of the budget “significantly deteriorated”
from previous years under Orban, Kopits said on Nov. 10.  “There was only one country in the world where an existing
independent budgetary institution was later scrapped,” Kopits
told the newspaper Vilaggazdasag in an interview published
today. “The name and place: Hugo Chavez, Venezuela.”  The  Economy Ministry  didn’t respond to e-mailed questions
from Bloomberg News on the cabinet’s position about the Fiscal
Council. Ruling party lawmakers in parliament’s Constitutional
Committee today didn’t support the bill to cut the councils’
funding, Index reported.  The bill can still be brought to a vote in the legislature
as long as at least one committee back it. The deadline for this
is Dec. 7, according to parliament’s press office.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  