-- Munis Yielding More Than Treasuries for First Time Since Crisis
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-11-22T13:59:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/munis-yielding-more-than-treasuries-for-first-time-since-crisis-amid-sales.html
Tax-exempt bonds are  yielding  more
than Treasuries for the first time since the financial crisis, a
relationship that history shows doesn’t last, especially as the
Federal Reserve kindles inflation expectations.  Investors buying AAA municipal general obligation bonds due
in two years get a yield equal to 119 percent of similar-
maturity Treasuries, Bloomberg Fair Market Value data show. A
ratio above 100 percent means those in the 38.3 percent federal
tax bracket get higher yields plus tax-sheltered income. Before
the credit crisis in 2008, that happened twice in the 20 years
for shorter-maturity debt.  The combination of worsening state and local finances and a
surge in  sales  that included $15.5 billion of offerings last
week, the most in more than seven years, has pushed tax-exempt
bond payouts above Treasuries. Muni rates rose faster even as
yields on 10-year U.S. notes posted the biggest two-week
increase in almost a year on speculation the Fed will avoid
deflation by purchasing $600 billion of government debt.  “The value pendulum has swung from Treasuries to munis,”
said  Jonathan Lewis , founding principal of New York-based Samson
Capital Advisors LLC, which manages $7.3 billion. “Municipals
are a good place to park your money and get a yield advantage
that typically wouldn’t be there.”  Shifting to Munis  Lewis shifted money to Treasuries from munis eight months
ago when the ratio dropped to as low as 66 percent as the Fed
finished $1.7 trillion in asset purchases in the first leg of
what’s become known as quantitative easing.  General obligation notes rated AAA due in two years yield
0.70 percent, or 0.19 percentage point more than Treasuries.
Over the past 20 years, Treasuries have yielded about 1
percentage point more, according to Bloomberg data.  Losses were magnified by the 6.4 percent average decline in
closed-end municipal-bond funds this month through Nov. 18 as
concern increased that city and state finances are
deteriorating, according to Morningstar. The funds traded at a
0.36 percent premium to net asset values last week, down from
about 0.55 percent a month earlier, according to  Cecilia Gondor ,
a closed-end fund analyst at Thomas J Herzfeld Advisors Inc. in
Miami.  Losses in closed-end funds helped push up rates even on
top-rated issues such as Georgia AAA general obligation bonds
due in two years to 125 percent of two-year Treasuries,
Bloomberg data show. Maryland National Capital Parks & Planning
Commission AAA general obligation bonds due in 2012 yielded as
much as 141 percent of comparable Treasuries last week.  ‘Relatively Cheap’  “I’ve worked in this business for more than 20 years and
ratios getting north of 100 percent of Treasuries happens
infrequently, and doesn’t usually last too long,” said  Robert Millikan , who helps oversee $19 billion as executive director of
Sterling Capital Management Llc in Raleigh, North Carolina.  Fixed-income strategists at New York-based JPMorgan Chase &
Co. said in a report dated Nov. 19 that they raised their
recommendation on tax-exempt munis to “cautiously positive”
from “neutral.” They said all bonds of all maturities are
“relatively cheap.”  The relationship between municipal and government debt has
been distorted by Fed efforts to sustain growth after the
recession ended last year. The central bank has kept its  target
rate  for overnight loans between banks in a record low range of
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 and began spending $600
billion to buy Treasuries on Nov. 12 in its second round of so-
called quantitative easing.  Sales Accelerate  State and local governments issued $351.7 billion in debt
this year, on pace for the most since Bloomberg began keeping
records in 2004.  Sales were boosted by the Build America Bond program, an
initiative of President  Barack Obama  that pays state and local
issuers a 35 percent subsidy of interest expense when they issue
taxable debt. More than $92 billion of the securities have been
sold this year, or 26.2 percent of the total. In the six years
through 2008, taxable securities comprised 5 percent. The
program expires Dec. 31.  Municipal bonds have lost favor as state and local
governments face a record $18.5 billion in budget deficits this
year, according to a National Governors Association  survey .
While the U.S. economy is recovering, more than half the states
have run out of money in unemployment trust funds, financed by
payroll taxes, with the U.S. jobless  rate  holding above 9
percent. States have borrowed $40.9 billion from the federal
government.  Alarm Bells  Harrisburg, the capital of Pennsylvania, is struggling to
avoid bankruptcy, and a South Carolina toll road defaulted on
its debt.  Meredith Whitney , the banking analyst who correctly
predicted Citigroup Inc.’s dividend cut in 2008, said in
September that the U.S. government will face pressure to bail
out struggling states in the next 12 months, joining investor
 Warren Buffett  in raising the alarm about the potential for
widespread defaults in the $2.8 trillion municipal bond market.  Investors withdrew $3 billion from open-end municipal bond
mutual funds in the week ended Nov. 17, the most in almost 19
years, according to Lipper FMI.  “It’s become a negative-feedback loop,”  Thomas Metzold ,
co-director of municipal investments at Boston-based Eaton Vance
Corp., said last week. “Funds have to sell bonds to meet
redemptions, putting pressure on prices, causing more
redemptions.”  Money managers point to a strengthening economy and
recovering tax revenue as signs that municipal yields will fall
below Treasuries. California, Texas, Florida and New York, the
four biggest states, all added jobs last month for the first
time since May.  Concerns Overstated  The gains could help shrink budget deficits that the Center
on Budget and Policy Priorities says will likely total $140
billion in fiscal 2012, as new jobholders boost income- and
sales-tax collections. States’ tax revenue grew about 6 percent
in the three months ended on Sept. 30, the third consecutive
increase, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said Nov. 19.  Concerns about borrowers missing debt payments have been
overstated, according to a  report  by Fitch Ratings on Nov. 16.
Investment-grade municipal default rates were as low as 0.04
percent over the past 10 years, the report said.  “While the incidence of default may increase from
exceedingly low historical levels, defaults will continue to be
isolated situations,” the report said. “There is a long record
of governments making difficult choices to maintain budget
balance while making full and timely debt service payments even
in very stressful financial situations.”  Three-Month High  Ten-year AAA general obligation bond yields reached 2.87
percent last week, according to Municipal Market Advisors data
for that maturity.  Yields  on 10-year Treasuries touched a three-
month high of 2.96 percent and were 2.86 percent as of 7:57 a.m.
in New York.  Municipals are “a good place to pick up yield,” said  Andy Richman , who oversees $10 billion as a strategist in West Palm
Beach, Florida, for SunTrust Bank’s private wealth management
division. “We don’t think there will be massive defaults.”  The ratio of municipal to Treasury yields rose above 100
percent for about three months starting in September 2002 and
April 2003 before declining. In 2003, state and local bonds
returned 6.18 percent, trouncing the 2.26 percent gain for
Treasuries, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  ‘Extremely Low’  “Given the extremely low” Treasury yields, “high quality
munis offer a great alternative for a short-term investor
looking for yield. Period,” said  Gary Pollack , who helps
oversee $12 billion as head of fixed-income trading at Deutsche
Bank AG’s Private Wealth Management unit in New York. Pollack
said he has been buying munis for clients who usually only hold
Treasuries. “Investors are better off in the muni market where
you can get yield at more than 100 percent of Treasuries on an
absolute return basis with similar credit risk.”  Besides munis being undervalued in historical terms, the
world’s biggest money managers say Treasuries are overvalued.
Bond investors expect consumer prices to rise 2.16 percent a
year, based on the  difference  between yields on 10-year
Treasury-Inflation Protection Securities, or TIPS, and similar
maturity Treasuries. That’s up from 1.51 percent in August.  Bill Gross , who oversees the world’s biggest bond mutual
fund at Pacific Investment Management Co. in Newport Beach,
California, says the 30-year bull market in Treasuries is
drawing to a close because yields can’t fall further after the
Fed pushed borrowing rates to all-time lows.  Investors who want to add risk and take advantage of the
muni premium may purchase two-year California notes that yield
1.08 percent, or more than double the 0.51 percent yield on
comparable maturity Treasuries, according to Bloomberg data.  “Treasuries have gotten very expensive,” said  Jeffrey Schoenfeld , a partner and chief investment officer in New York
at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co., which manages $33 billion in
assets. “Quantitative easing has had the effect of pushing down
yields tremendously. Now you are better buying munis than
Treasuries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net . 