-- Murray Opens ATP Finals With Win After Practice Session at Downing Street
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-11-22T01:57:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/murray-opens-atp-finals-with-win-after-downing-street-tuneup-with-cameron.html
A practice session with U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  in the dining room of No. 10 Downing
Street turned out to be a good preparation for  Andy Murray  in
his bid for a first ATP World Tour Finals tennis title.  The Scot yesterday defeated  Robin Soderling  of Sweden 6-2,
6-4 in the opening match at the O2 arena in east London. He
produced 27 winners, compared with 14 for the Swede.  “David Cameron, he was firing balls at me, I couldn’t
believe it,” Murray, 23, said in a televised interview after
beating Soderling in Group B. “Playing tennis in the dining
room at Downing Street was a pretty strange experience.”  Murray and the other seven players from the  ATP Finals 
visited Cameron last week in the leadup to the season-ending
championships. Cameron had borrowed a racket from top-ranked
 Rafael Nadal  of Spain to hit with Murray.  Cameron “is a pretty big tennis fan,” Murray told a small
group of reporters. “He says he plays a couple of times a month
if he gets the chance too. He was explaining that he has had to
change his grip because he grew up playing with wooden rackets
and he is trying to learn how to play topspin.”  Having the U.K. Prime Minister show an interest in tennis
is “great for the sport,” according to  Roger Federer , the
winner of a record 16 Grand Slam singles titles.  “It shows how important this tournament is to the city and
the country,” Federer said. “Mr. Cameron was very excited to
have us there it seemed.”  Today’s Matches  Federer last night opened his bid for a fifth World Tour
Finals title with a 6-1, 6-4 Group B win over Spain’s  David
Ferrer . In Group A matches to be played today, Wimbledon
finalist  Tomas Berdych  of the Czech Republic faces U.S. Open
finalist  Novak Djokovic  of Serbia, while Nadal meets  Andy Roddick  of the U.S. in the evening session.  The year-end tournament, won by Russia’s  Nikolay Davydenko 
12 months ago, has a round-robin format, with this season’s
eight best players divided into two groups of four. Each player
faces the other three in his group, with the top two in each
section moving into the knockout semifinals.  Murray entered the event after a season that began with his
first appearance in the Australian Open final, where he lost to
Federer for the second time in a Grand Slam championship match
after the 2008 U.S. Open.  Murray didn’t win a tournament until the middle of August,
when he beat Federer in Toronto. He clinched his second title of
the year last month in Shanghai, once again beating the Swiss.  Murray Spotlight  Murray, who won six titles last season, said he has got
used to the media attention and pressure that surround his
matches. The last British man to lift the trophy at one of the
sport’s four major tournaments was  Fred Perry  in 1936.  “It doesn’t affect you when you are out on court,” the
Scot said. “It is not a valid excuse for playing badly or well.
I have played Wimbledon five or six times so it is something you
get better at dealing with it the more you do it.”  After making the final in Melbourne, Murray exited the
French Open in the fourth round, was beaten by eventual champion
Nadal in the Wimbledon semifinals and lost in the third round of
the U.S. Open to  Stanislas Wawrinka  of Switzerland.  “It has been a good year, a bit inconsistent,” said
Murray, who is still looking for a fulltime coach after
splitting with Miles Maclagan in July. “The last few months I
feel I have improved a lot in many parts of my game.”  Federer will be Murray’s next opponent in Group B.  “Every time you play against him, it’s tough,” Murray
said. “I need to make sure I practice well, give myself the
best chance to play well. If I do that, I’ll have a chance of
winning.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  