-- PDVSA, Eni Will Invest $17 Billion to Produce, Refine Oil in Orinoco Belt
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 2010-11-22T19:15:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/venezuela-eni-to-invest-17-billion-in-developing-orinoco-crude-reserves.html
Petroleos de Venezuela SA  and  Eni
SpA  said they’ll jointly invest $17 billion to produce and
refine heavy crude in the Orinoco Belt.  The Petrojunin venture will pump as much as 240,000 barrels
a day in the Junin 5 block of the Orinoco and the
Petrobicentenaria venture will build a 350,000-barrel-a-day
refinery to produce mainly diesel for European markets, PDVSA
President Rafael Ramirez said today at a ceremony in Caracas.
The state oil company will hold 60 percent stakes in the
ventures, he said.  “We’ve signed the framework to increase our production in
Venezuela in an important way,” Paolo Scaroni, chief executive
officer of Eni, said today in Caracas. “We’re ready to invest
$7 billion in these projects and this will be one of the most
important countries for our company.”  President Hugo Chavez has signed ventures with oil
companies from Vietnam to Russia to tap heavy crude deposits
that may place the South American country ahead of Saudi Arabia
in terms of reserves. Venezuela expects joint investments of
more than $80 billion in the Orinoco Belt to boost production by
2 million barrels a day by 2015.  PDVSA awarded minority stakes in joint ventures to groups
of companies led by Repsol YPF SA and Chevron Corp. this year in
the Orinoco Belt. Venezuela is the largest oil producer in South
America.  Power Plant  Eni is also working with PDVSA to develop the Perla
offshore gas field that may hold 15 trillion cubic feet of gas,
Scaroni said. The company will pay a $600 million fee to the
government to access the crude reserves and lend the country $2
billion to build a 900 megawatt power plant in Guiria, Scaroni
said.  Eni will invest about $7 billion of the $17 billion
estimated cost of developing the two ventures, Scaroni said. The
refinery should be ready by 2016, he said.  “This will be the first refinery built since the 1950s in
Venezuela,” Ramirez said. “We’re diversifying our markets and
looking towards future oil production.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Rodriguez Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  