-- Waltz Leads in Warsaw Race, Polish Governing Party Wins Local Election
-- B y   N a t h a n i e l   E s p i n o
-- 2010-11-22T14:32:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/waltz-leads-in-warsaw-race-polish-governing-party-wins-local-election.html
Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz , a former
central banker, is set to win re-election as mayor of Warsaw
without a runoff, one of the best results for her Civic Platform
party in local-government elections throughout Poland yesterday.  Gronkiewicz-Waltz won 53 percent support, compared with 24
percent for her closest rival, Czeslaw Bielecki of the Law &
Justice party, according to official returns from 53 percent of
precincts. Civic Platform won 31 percent of the vote for
assemblies in Poland’s 16 provinces, compared with 23 percent
for Law & Justice, the biggest opposition party, the State
Election Commission said on its website today, citing  returns 
from 84 percent of precincts.  Civic Platform’s performance nationwide falls short of the
party’s expectations, said Wawrzyniec Konarski, a political
scientist at Krakow’s Jagiellonian University. Prime Minister
 Donald Tusk ’s party, which supports euro adoption and state
asset sales, had been counting on a result closer to 40 percent
after its main rival Law & Justice lost a half dozen members of
parliament to internal squabbles in recent weeks, he said.  “The Platform has to ask itself why it didn’t do better,”
Konarski said by phone. “For the two main parties, the results
show that they must work very hard to win voters” before
general elections next year.  Peasants Third  The Polish Peasants Party, Civic Platform’s partner in the
ruling coalition, ran third in elections to provincial
assemblies with 15.7 percent, followed by the opposition
Democratic Left Alliance, with 15.3 percent.  Civic Platform is leading in nationwide opinion polls a
year before parliamentary elections are due, with 38 percent in
to an SMG/KRC poll for TVN24 television on Nov. 18. The party’s
candidate  Bronislaw Komorowski  won the presidency in July.  Gronkiewicz-Waltz will face a runoff if her final tally is
below 50 percent. The incumbent mayor, elected in 2006 after
serving as a vice president of the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, campaigned on pledges to
continue building transportation facilities such as the
underground Metro network, after more than doubling the city’s
investment budget to 9 billion zloty ($3.1 billion) a year.  “I’ll say, rather immodestly, that Warsaw needs a good
financial manager,” she said in an interview before the
election. “These are huge investments. You need to be able to
find funds, to create sophisticated financial architecture.”  Radoslaw Markowski , a sociology professor at the Polish
Academy of Sciences, said her popularity was due largely to the
effect of a “low base.”  ‘Nothing Happened’  “Nothing happened for years” and investments were
“paralyzed” under Gronkiewicz’s predecessor,  Lech Kaczynski ,
he said by phone.  In voting elsewhere, independent candidates won or were
leading mayoral elections in nine of Poland’s 18 largest cities.
Civic Platform candidates were ahead in six cities, the
Democratic Left Alliance in two, while Law & Justice’s candidate
won the first round in Lublin, in eastern Poland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nathaniel Espino  in Warsaw 
 nespino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  