-- Wells Fargo, JPMorgan, UBS, SocGen, BP in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-11-22T11:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/wells-fargo-lehman-jpmorgan-ubs-socgen-bp-in-court-news.html
(Corrects to add number of defendants accused of misusing
confidential information in BP lawsuit.)  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  agreed to pay
Citigroup Inc. $100 million to settle claims that the San
Francisco-based bank improperly won bidding to acquire Wachovia
Corp. during the financial crisis.  “We are glad to put this matter behind us, and we look
forward to our two institutions working together constructively
in the future,” Wells Fargo said Nov. 19 in a joint statement
with New York-based Citigroup.  Wells Fargo trumped Citigroup’s $2.16 billion bid for
Wachovia’s banking operations in 2008, by  paying  $12.7 billion
for the Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender in a deal that
required no guarantees from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
The final deal deprived Citigroup of a chance to bolster its
business, which later required a $45 billion government bailout.  The takeover battle spawned lawsuits among the companies.
The settlement resolves “all claims related to this dispute,”
the banks said.  For more, click here.  Lehman U.K. Unit Wins Court Ruling Over $1.5 Billion  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s former U.K. unit won a
court ruling allowing it to keep more than $1.5 billion worth of
securities left in the bank’s accounts when it collapsed more
than two years ago.  Lehman Brothers International Europe, which is liquidating
in London, had asked the U.K. court for direction on whether
five other Lehman units owned any of the securities that had
been bought and sold to one another in a series of internal
transactions.  The case is known as the “Rascals” litigation, for
“Regulation and Administration of Safe Custody and Local
Settlement,” the name of the bank’s internal process for making
accounting entries between LBIE and the affiliates to record
repurchase arrangements.  “The standard Rascals process had the effect of
transferring that beneficial ownership in the securities to
LBIE,” its administrators at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said in
 a statement  Nov. 19. “LBIE retained beneficial ownership of the
securities thereafter.”  Lehman filed for the U.S.’s biggest bankruptcy in September
2008, roiling financial markets and contributing to the worst
economic crisis since the Great Depression. The U.K. unit has
been involved in suits with the parent company in the U.S. and
affiliates throughout Europe over billions in accounts frozen
when the bank collapsed.  The case is In the Matter of Lehman Brothers International
(Europe)(In Administration), case no. 7942/2008, High Court of
Justice,  Chancery Division  (London).  For more, click here.  Ex-SocGen Trader Found Guilty of Stealing Secrets  Former  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  trader Samarth Agrawal was found
guilty of stealing trade secrets related to the bank’s high-speed computer trading software.  A federal court jury in New York delivered the verdict on
Nov. 19 at the end of a two-week trial. U.S. District Judge Jed
S. Rakoff set Agrawal’s sentencing for Feb. 24. He faces a
prison term of as long as four years and nine months.  Agrawal testified, under questioning by his own lawyer,
 Ivan Fisher , that he shared information about  Societe Generale ’s
trading software with a Manhattan hedge fund,  Tower Research
Capital LLC , where he hoped to create a similar system.  Rakoff, who told lawyers he was “puzzled” by Agrawal’s
self-incriminating testimony, said he assumed Fisher was using a
“sympathy defense” on his client’s behalf.  Agrawal was convicted of theft of trade secrets and
transporting stolen property in interstate commerce.  During the trial, Agrawal told jurors his superiors at
Societe General encouraged him to work at home because spending
too many nights and weekends in the office would raise “red
flags” for company security. For that reason, he said, he
printed copies of the computer codes in June 2009 to study at
home.  The case is U.S. v. Agrawal, 10-cr-00417, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Will Ferrell Loses $18 Million Claim Against JPMorgan Unit  A securities arbitration panel rejected an $18 million
claim by a group of investors including actors Will Ferrell and
Larry David against a unit of JPMorgan Chase & Co., ordering
instead that they reimburse the bank for more than $600,000 in
legal costs.  The two, along with Ferrell’s wife, Viveca Paulin, and Los
Angeles business manager Matt Lichtenberg, filed a complaint
against J.P. Morgan Securities with the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. They said that the brokerage, originally a
component of Bear Stearns & Co., made unauthorized investments
in “preferred securities,” which the complaint didn’t specify.  A three-member arbitration panel denied the claim “in its
entirety” Nov. 12, according to documents released by Finra.
The panel told the comedians’ group to pay $600,000 in J.P.
Morgan’s legal costs, adding $22,500 “for discovery abuse and
failure to comply with the forum’s discovery rules and
procedures.” The award documents said the group repeatedly
failed to produce required documentation quickly enough.  The documents said Ferrell and the others accused J.P.
Morgan of engaging in “unauthorized and unsuitable purchases of
unspecified preferred securities with regard to their respective
accounts.”  J.P. Morgan declined to comment on the decision.
Lichtenberg didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Merck Wins Verdict in Suit Claiming Fosamax Defect  Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s Fosamax osteoporosis drug isn’t responsible
for a Florida woman’s dental and jaw problems, a New York jury
found Nov. 19.  Judith Graves sued Merck in 2006, alleging the company
failed to warn doctors and patients that the bone-loss drug was
linked to jaw tissue death. Graves said she developed jaw
problems requiring multiple surgeries after taking the drug.
Merck said her condition was connected to underlying medical
conditions.  “The evidence showed the company acted properly and that
Fosamax did not cause the plaintiff’s dental and jaw problems,”
Mike Brock, Merck’s attorney, said in a statement. “The
plaintiff had multiple medical conditions that can cause people
to develop jaw and dental problems.”  Merck, based in Whitehouse Station, New Jersey, is facing
more than 1,500 claims in federal and state courts alleging
Fosamax defects, the company said. With the Nov. 19 decision,
Merck has won two of the three cases that have gone to a  jury
verdict . In the third case, the jury’s $8 million award was
reduced to $1.5 million last month.  “We are obviously disappointed as every single treating
doctor testified Fosamax caused Mrs. Graves’ osteonecrosis of
the jaw,” her lawyer, Tim O’Brien, said in an e-mail. Graves
will appeal, he said.  The case is Graves v. Merck & Co., 1:06-cv-05513, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Kinder Morgan’s Settlement of Buyout Suits Approved  Kinder Morgan Inc., the Houston-based pipeline company
taken private in a $22 billion leveraged buyout, won approval of
a $200 million settlement of investor lawsuits over the deal.  A state court judge in Topeka, Kansas, concluded Nov. 19
that the agreement resolving shareholders’ complaints about the
2007 buyout was a reasonable resolution of the securities-fraud
cases. Investors alleged they were being shortchanged in the
offer by a group led by co-founder  Richard Kinder  to take the
company private.  “We’re pleased we were able to achieve such a phenomenal
settlement for shareholders,” Randy Baron, a lawyer
representing investors, said in an e-mail. Baron said the accord
is the largest securities-fraud settlement in the U.S. of suits
challenging a buyout. It will provide some investors as much as
$2-a-share more for their Kinder Morgan stock, he added.  Kinder’s group agreed to pay $107.50 a share for Kinder
Morgan’s stock as part of the buyout. The group also assumed $7
billion in debt, bringing the transaction’s value to $22
billion, the largest-ever pipeline acquisition.  “While the company and the investor group believe that the
acquisition of KMI’s public shares was accomplished through a
completely open and fair process and denies all allegations of
wrongdoing, we believe it is in the best interests of all
parties to avoid the expense and uncertainty of continued
litigation,”  Larry Pierce , Kinder Morgan’s spokesman, said in
an e-mail.  The case is In re Kinder Morgan Inc. Shareholders
Litigation, Consolidated Cases 06-C-801, Shawnee County, Kansas,
District Court, Division 12 (Topeka).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Toyota Speed-Up Cases Won’t Be Dismissed, Judge Says  A federal judge tentatively ruled that he will reject most
of  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s first major legal challenge to class-action lawsuits filed against the automaker by car owners over
sudden acceleration.  The car owners’ lawyers provided sufficient evidence to
allow their cases to go forward, U.S. District Judge James V.
Selna in Santa Ana, California, said in a tentative ruling
posted on his court’s website. Selna heard arguments Nov. 19
over Toyota’s motion to dismiss class-action, or group, lawsuits
claiming economic loss linked to sudden acceleration.  “It is true that plaintiffs do not generally allege the
precise dollar value of their losses, but that level of
specificity is not required at this pleading stage,” Selna
wrote in his 63-page ruling. “It is enough that they allege a
tangible loss that can be proved or disproved upon discovery.”  Selna said he would issue a final ruling by the U.S.
Thanksgiving holiday on Nov. 25.  The economic-loss  lawsuits , combined for pretrial filings
and rulings before Selna, claim Toyota drove down the value of
vehicles by failing to fix or disclose defects that triggered
unintended acceleration. Federal suits claiming death or injury
caused by such episodes are also combined in the Santa Ana
court.  Toyota asked Selna to dismiss the car owners’ claim that
the company knew of a defect in the vehicles’ electronic
throttle control system and concealed it from consumers. The
plaintiffs failed to identify an “actual defect,” the company
said in court papers.  Selna said would let this claim go forward. “Plaintiffs’
fraudulent concealment claim pleads particular facts in support
of the defect allegations, and that is all that is required at
this stage,” he wrote in the tentative ruling.  “These rulings are only tentative and come at a stage of
the legal proceedings in which the judge has to accept that what
the plaintiffs allege are true,” said Toyota attorney Lisa
Gilford in an interview after the hearing. “We are confident
that as the facts develop in this case they will show that there
are no defects in these Toyota vehicles.”  The burden “is now squarely on plaintiffs’ counsel to
prove their allegations, and Toyota is confident that no such
proof exists,”  Celeste Migliore , a company spokeswoman, said in
an e-mailed statement. The claim that Toyota’s electronic
throttle control system is defective is “wholly
unsubstantiated,” she said.  “If the judge finalizes these tentative rulings they will
be a substantial victory for the plaintiffs,” consumer lawyer
Steve W. Berman said after the hearing.  The cases are combined as In re Toyota Motor Corp.
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  FDIC Seeks Lawyer Documents as Suits Loom Against Failed Banks  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. has sued one law firm
and threatened to sue another to obtain documents lawyers
received from executives at five banks that have failed since
the onset of the credit crisis.  The FDIC seeks the return of files and records that
officers and directors at the five financial institutions copied
and gave to private lawyers before their banks collapsed,
according to documents in two cases filed in federal court in
Atlanta.  The FDIC is also preparing to file negligence and fraud
suits against executives of failed banks. The FDIC board has
authorized civil suits against more than 80 officers and
directors of failed banks, while the bank regulator and the FBI
are cooperating on about 50 cases of possible criminal
violations involving former and current bank employees and
customers.  “We believe the FDIC’s position that we must return these
documents, which were shared with us by our clients, is
unsupported and unreasonable, and significantly limits our
clients’ abilities to defend themselves effectively,” Mark
Flanagan, managing partner at McKenna Long & Aldridge LLP, which
sued the FDIC on Nov. 17, said in an e-mail. “The resolution of
this issue will have a wide ranging impact on the rights of all
bank officers and directors and the law firms that represent
them.”  McKenna Long’s suit against the FDIC asks the federal court
to determine what should be done with the documents. The firm is
based in Atlanta.  McKenna Long represents executives from four banks that
failed this year: Darby Bank & Trust Co. in Vidalia, Georgia;
McIntosh Commercial Bank in Carrollton, Georgia; Northwest Bank
& Trust in Acworth, Georgia; and K Bank in Randallstown,
Maryland. As part of that representation, the firm says it has
received copies of board and committee minutes, commercial loan
files, and reports prepared by the bank executives.  The FDIC demanded that McKenna Long “immediately return to
the FDIC as receiver all bank records and all copies therof
taken from any failed bank,” according to a Nov. 15 letter from
James M. Barker, managing counsel for the FDIC, court papers
show. The letter said accessing, copying, and removal of the
documents violated the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act. The FDIC
also said the law firm must return any legal fees that were paid
from the banks’ funds.  The cases are FDIC v. Bryan Cave LLP, 10-cv-03666, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Georgia (Atlanta), and
McKenna Long & Aldridge LLP v. FDIC, 10-cv-3779.  For more, click here.  UBS, Ex-Private Banking Clients Sue Over Investments  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s Singapore unit sued two former private banking
clients, saying they failed to pay for investment losses of
S$9.3 million ($7.2 million). The couple countersued, accusing
UBS of negligence in investment advice.  UBS claims Ng Kok Keong and his wife Yow Sin May placed
bets on foreign currencies and failed to pay for a shortfall in
their account, according to court papers filed with the
Singapore High Court. The trial is scheduled to start Nov. 22.  Ng had limited experience in the financial market and
relied on UBS and banker Lily See for advice, according to the
couple’s counterclaim.  See belatedly informed Ng and his wife that money in their
account had dipped below minimum requirements and failed to
close certain trades, causing further losses, the couple claimed
in court papers.  Julie Yeo, a Singapore-based spokeswoman at UBS, said the
company doesn’t comment on ongoing legal issues. The couple’s
lawyer Kelvin Chia also declined to comment. UBS is represented
by Cavinder Bull from Drew & Napier LLC.  The case is UBS AG, Singapore Branch v. Ng Kok Keong & Yow
Sin May S390/2009 in the Singapore High Court.  Societe Generale Says Ex-Client, Suing Over Losses, Knew Risks  Societe Generale SA’s Singapore unit, sued by a former
private banking client for hiding investment losses, said the
legally trained businessman made his own decisions and
understood the terms of the bank’s agreements.  Chan Leong Cheng “held himself out to be a sophisticated
investor who was capable of evaluating the terms, potential
financial consequences and risks of foreign currency trading,”
the unit of France’s second-biggest bank said in its defense
filed with the Singapore High Court Nov. 18.  Chan, a resident of Perth, Western Australia, sued Societe
Generale and two of its executives last month in a bid to
recover $7.9 million of the losses. Chan claimed Senior Director
Liew Marn Leng and her supervisor Lilian Ang made wrong currency
bets which almost depleted his $10 million account and for years
removed pages from his statements to hide the losses.  The case is Chan Leong Cheng vs. Societe Generale Bank &
Trust Singapore Branch, Liew Marn Leng Jenny and Lilian Ang,
S780/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  For more, click here.  BP Ordered to Return Items by Singapore Court in Trader Case  BP Plc (BP/) ’s former head of fuel oil trading Quek Chin Thean
and four other ex-employees won a Singapore court ruling to set
aside a search order, ordering the  oil company  to return all the
items it took.  The Singapore court ruling, part of an ongoing trial
involving the workers, also ordered a separate hearing on costs
and damages to the five people. A sixth person’s application for
the so-called Anton Piller Order to be set aside wasn’t granted,
according to an e-mailed statement released Nov. 19 by the six
former BP oil-trading executives.  “The court’s ruling vindicates their stand that the APOs
were taken out for unlawful reasons, and that the plaintiff had
failed to disclose material facts to the court when the APOs
were obtained in the first place,” they said in the statement.  The London-based oil company sued Quek and five other
former employees. Five of them allegedly wrongfully downloaded
and misused confidential information, including oil-trading
“cheat sheets.” BP accused the group of helping rival Shenzhen
Brightoil Group set up a competing business in Singapore. Quek,
whose official title was head of residues trading, was fired
from BP on July 9.  BP says the latest court order still upholds its request to
protect trade secrets. “The orders reflect the court’s
recognition of the need in this case to protect BP’s
confidential information and to prevent the destruction of
evidence, whilst balancing competing interests,”  Robert Wine , a
spokesman based in London, said in an e-mailed statement.  Quek, Clarence Chang, John Foo and Laura Kuan countersued
BP in August for wrongful dismissal and claimed the company
withheld money owed to them. The group, including former head of
operations Paul John Bradshaw and legal manager Simon Cheong,
has denied misusing any of BP’s trade secrets. They were fired
after the company said it found evidence of wrongdoing. BP
accused five of them, excluding Cheong, of  misusing confidential information.  The case is BP Singapore Pte v. Quek Chin Thean & Ors
S482/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Citigroup Sued in N.Y. for ‘Accelerated’ Foreclosures  Citigroup Inc. was accused of using fraudulent paperwork to
process “accelerated” mortgage foreclosures in a lawsuit filed
in federal court in New York.  “Motivated by speed and profits rather than obligatory
attention to detail, Citi failed to record necessary documents
to legally foreclose,” borrower Brian Costigan said in his
complaint seeking class-action status on behalf of others who
had home loans with the New York-based bank.  The complaint includes claims for breach of contract,
breach of good faith and fair dealing, and fraud against
Citigroup and its mortgage unit, Citimortgage Inc.  Costigan said Citigroup employees submitted fraudulent
affidavits that allegedly proved Citi’s control of a mortgage
and “outsourced tasks” to outsiders without adequate
oversight. He said the bank used “robo signers’ and didn’t
verify amounts borrowed and determine which institutions had a
right to foreclose.  Mark Rodgers , a spokesman for Citigroup, didn’t return a
voice-mail message left at his office after business hours
seeking comment.  The case is Brian Costigan v. Citigroup, 10-CV-8776, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Oracle Rests SAP Case Without Apotheker Evidence  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  rested its copyright infringement damages case
against  SAP AG (SAP)  without showing jurors the full videotaped
deposition of former SAP Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker ,
who is now  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s CEO.  Safra Catz, Oracle’s co-president, testified Nov. 19 in the
portion of the trial in which the Redwood City, California-based
company sought to rebut SAP’s assertions that it should pay no
more than about $40 million in damages. Oracle is seeking at
least $1.7 billion.  Closing arguments are scheduled to begin Nov. 22, after
which the jury will begin deliberations.  Oracle attorney  David Boies  previously said testimony from
Apotheker was important to the case because he was ‘‘at the
center of” the conduct by an SAP unit that illegally downloaded
Oracle software.  Apotheker’s testimony by video “didn’t add anything,”
Boies said in an interview outside the courtroom. The deposition
was taken in 2008 and Apotheker testified about matters that
were “superseded” by agreements SAP made not to contest
liability for the unit’s infringement or that SAP contributed to
the infringement.  Oracle showed a short excerpt of Apotheker’s video during
opening arguments, which can’t be considered as evidence by the
jury.  Oracle was unable to serve Apotheker with a subpoena to
testify at the trial.  The case is Oracle Corp. v. SAP AG, 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  Kissel Loses Bid to Halt Retrial for Husband’s Murder  Nancy Kissel , charged with the 2003 murder of her  Merrill
Lynch & Co. (BAC)  banker husband, will be retried, a Hong Kong judge
ruled, rejecting her application for the proceedings to be
halted.  Judge Andrew Macrae told the media not to report the
details of his ruling. He previously ordered the media not to
report on the details of her application for a stay.  Michigan-born Kissel, serving a life sentence in prison,
would have been released had her application been successful.
Prosecutors charged her again with murder in March after Hong
Kong’s top court overturned her 2005 conviction. The 46-year-old
mother of three’s retrial is set to begin on Jan. 10.  Kissel’s defense lawyer Derek Chan declined to comment.  Hong Kong’s Court of Final Appeal said in February that
Kissel’s conviction was flawed because the judge wrongly allowed
hearsay evidence and prosecutors improperly questioned her
during the 2005 trial. Jurors heard in the three-month trial
that she drugged her husband Robert with a milkshake, bludgeoned
him to death and hid his body in a carpet.  The case is Nancy Ann Kissel and HKSAR, HCCC55/2010, Hong
Kong Court of First Instance.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Court Filings  Ambac Financial Group Most Popular Docket on Bloomberg  Ambac Financial Group Inc., the New York-based holding
company for the Wisconsin insurer, had the most-read litigation
docket on the Bloomberg Law system last week.  The holding company’s Chapter 11 bankruptcy case is In re
Ambac Financial Group Inc., 10-15973,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 