-- Wheat Futures Rise on Signs of Increasing Demand From Egypt for U.S. Grain
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-11-22T22:34:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/wheat-futures-rise-on-signs-of-increasing-demand-from-egypt-for-u-s-grain.html
Wheat futures rose for the third
time in four sessions on signs that demand for U.S. supplies is
increasing from Egypt, the world’s largest importer.  U.S. exporters sold 120,000 metric tons to Egypt for
delivery in the year ending May 31, the Department of
Agriculture said today. Global  inventories  on May 31 may be 12
percent smaller than a year earlier as production dropped
following a drought in Russia and Eastern Europe and wet weather
in Canada.  “The Egyptians are in for U.S. wheat for a dedicated
amount of time, because they’ve essentially run out of other
sources,” said  Mike Zuzolo , the president of Global Commodity
Analytics & Consulting in Lafayette, Indiana.  Wheat futures for March delivery rose 0.5 cent to settle at
$6.845 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade. The
commodity has climbed 3 percent in four sessions and is up 43
percent since the end of June.  Egypt was the 14th-largest  importer  of U.S. wheat in the
year that ended May 31. As of Nov. 11, the country  ranked  third
after Japan and Nigeria. The U.S. is the biggest exporter.  Earlier, prices fell as much as 0.8 percent on speculation
that government data would show improved U.S. crop conditions.
After markets closed, the USDA said 47 percent of the winter
crop was rated good or excellent, up from 46 percent a week
earlier.  “The reports we’re getting are that crop conditions are
good, and not really supportive of higher prices,” said  Larry Young , the president of Covenant Trading LLC in Chicago.  Crops improved in the Midwest, where some areas had as much
as 1.5 inches (3.8 centimeters) of rain in the past week, said
 Drew Lerner , the president of World Weather Inc. in Overland
Park, Kansas.  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  