-- Yield Hunt Means MTS Sets Ruble Record in Junk Maturities: Russia Credit
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2010-11-23T15:42:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/yield-hunt-means-mts-sets-ruble-record-in-junk-russia-credit.html
OAO Mobile TeleSystems , Russia’s
largest mobile-phone company, is setting a record for the
country’s junk bonds by selling debt maturing in seven years,
taking advantage of demand for higher yields.  MTS, as the company is known, received investor orders for
1.6 times the 10 billion rubles ($320 million) of  bonds , which
are ranked one level below investment-grade at BB+ by Fitch
Ratings. The securities are poised to rally when they begin
trading next week, according to  Dmitry Turmyshev , fixed income
analyst at Moscow-based Trust Investment Bank.  With central bank interest rates close to all-time lows,
investors are snapping up fixed-income securities with longer
maturities to gain higher yields. Votorantim Cimentos, Brazil’s
largest cement producer, sold 1 billion Brazilian reals ($579
million) of 2020 bonds last month and Soares Penido Concessoes
SA, a Brazilian highways operator, issued unrated bonds due in
2018 in September.  “The window of opportunity is starting to open for quality
borrowers, including non-state ones with a rating below
investment grade,” said  Igor Sukhanov , managing director and
head of investment banking at Bank of Moscow, the lender partly
owned by the city government. “It’s an achievement for MTS to
be the first company to do this, but it also shows a market
trend.”  MTS’s debt sale comes two months after OAO  Mechel , Russia’s
biggest producer of coal for steelmakers, issued its longest-
dated securities -- a 10-year bond that investors can redeem
after five years through so-called put options. The Moscow-based
company is rated B1 by Moody’s Investors Service, four levels
below investment grade.  ‘Fairly Priced’  Unlike Mechel’s bonds, the notes sold by MTS have no put
option. The MTS notes were priced to yield 8.7 percent, 240
basis points more than the 6.3 percent on the Moscow-based
company’s securities due in four years and puttable in 2011,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The bonds may climb 30 to 40 basis points, or 0.3 to 0.4
percentage point, above their issue price of 100 when they start
trading next week, Turmyshev at Trust said in a phone interview
yesterday.  The bonds are “fairly priced” and are likely to start
trading at about the current level, according to  Elena Kolchina ,
who helps manage $1.5 billion of assets as head of fixed income
products at Renaissance Asset Managers in Moscow. “MTS should
stay in demand.”  Investors are demanding 119 basis points in extra yield to
buy bonds of City of Moscow due in 2017 rather than notes
maturing in 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
difference has narrowed from as much as 132 basis points on
Sept. 30. The gap was as narrow as 86 basis points on May 14.  Russia Post  Investors have been “more receptive to longer maturity
debt recently, which enables the strongest names to offer five-
to-seven year bonds,” said  Nikolay Podguzov , head of fixed
income at VTB Capital, the investment banking arm of Russia’s
second-biggest bank.  Russia Post, the national mail service, plans a debut sale
of 7 billion rubles ($229 million) of five-year bonds, according
to a regulatory statement from the national postal service on
Oct. 21.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian government
debt rather than U.S. Treasuries rose 8 basis points today to
226, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ indexes. The
difference compares with 157 for debt of Mexico, which has the
same Baa1 rating from Moody’s, and 188 for Brazil, which is
rated two steps lower at Baa3.  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 34 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps rose 2.5 basis points to
146 today, according to data provider CMA. Credit-default swaps
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Russia credit-default swaps are 11.5 basis points more
expensive than contracts for Turkey, which is rated four levels
lower at Ba2 by Moody’s. Turkey was 40 basis points above Russia
on April 20.  The ruble weakened 0.7 percent to 31.3 per dollar by the 5
p.m. close in Moscow today. Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs,
which provide a guide to expectations of currency movements as
they allow foreign investors and companies to fix the exchange
rate at a specific level in the future, show the ruble at rate
at 31.6300 per dollar in three months.  ‘Pushing the Envelope’  MTS is rated Ba2 by Moody’s Investors Service and BB by
Standard & Poor’s, both two levels below investment grade.  The company “isn’t as risky as our ratings indicate,”
 Josh Tulgan , director of investor relations and corporate
finance in Moscow, said by telephone yesterday. “We felt that
we would be successful by pushing the envelope and going for
seven-year notes, allowing us focus our resources elsewhere not
to worry about it for seven years.”  While this is “a very good deal” for MTS, duration risk
may be “under appreciated,” said  Maxim Tishin , who helps
manage $350 million of debt at UFG Asset Management in Moscow.
Tishin said he would invest in the bonds if the yield were “at
least 300 basis points wider.”  “Market sentiment in the domestic bond market is
fragile,” VTB’s Podguzov said. “Risk appetite depends on the
external environment, the situation in the local currency market
and the domestic liquidity outlook.”  Bank Rossii left its main interest rates unchanged for a
fifth month in October on concern the country’s economic
recovery may be losing steam. The bank may keep its
“expansionary” policy in the coming months, it said in a
statement on Oct. 29.  The move to extend long-term financing in domestic debt is
a “general trend” across Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan and
Central Europe, said  Marina Vlasenko , a credit analyst at
Commerzbank AG in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Levitov in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 