-- Tyson Foods Will Curb Chicken Productino Next Quarter After `Busted Play'
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-11-22T22:03:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/tyson-foods-will-curb-chicken-productino-next-quarter-after-busted-play-.html
Tyson Foods Inc.  will slash chicken
production after “perfect growing conditions resulted in
heavier weights, and excess pounds on the market,” Chief
Operating Officer  James Lochner  said.  After hot weather caused poultry weights to drop during the
summer, Tyson increased its “live supply” and bought meat on
the market to fill consumer demand, Chief Executive Officer
 Donnie Smith  said on an earnings conference call today. Improved
conditions in the fall then spurred the company to “produce
more pounds than we intended,” Smith said.  “Frankly, we ran a busted play,” Smith said. “So we
pulled another play out of the playbook, and we’re going to cut
our production.”  Tyson will extend cuts into the quarter starting Jan. 2,
after starting to reduce output this quarter, “so that our
inventory is where we want it to be,” Smith said, without
specifying how much production will be eliminated.  Chicken sales in the fiscal fourth-quarter, which ended
Oct. 2, were down 1.1 percent from a year earlier, Springdale,
Arkansas-based Tyson said in a statement today. Total U.S.
poultry production is forecast to jump 1.2 percent in 2011, the
Department of Agriculture said Nov. 9.  Tyson will implement more near-term pricing contracts and
fewer long-term fixed-priced agreements as rising costs of
animal feed create volatility, Lochner said on the call. The
price of corn, a main ingredient in chicken feed, has surged 42
percent since June 30 in Chicago.  “Our teams are actively working on additional improvements
to help offset the challenges they are facing with input
costs,” Chief Financial Officer  Dennis Leatherby  said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Campbell  in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 