-- Hyundai-Kia Beat Toyota in Europe Sales on Demand for ix35 SUVx, Compacts
-- B y   S o o k y u n g   S e o
-- 2010-11-22T10:49:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-22/hyundai-motor-kia-s-combined-automobile-sales-exceed-toyota-s-in-europe.html
Hyundai Motor Group  has surpassed
Toyota Motor Corp. as the largest Asian carmaker in Europe this
year after the Japanese company’s sales tumbled on recalls.  Hyundai Motor Co.  and affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. , South
Korea’s two biggest automakers, boosted Europe sales 4 percent
in the first 10 months to 521,369 vehicles, according to data
released last week by the European Automobile Manufacturers’
Association. Toyota sales, including its Lexus premium brand,
plunged 17 percent to 511,754.  The Seoul-based group has withstood slumping European auto
demand this year as it lures drivers with the ix35 sport-utility
vehicle and the i30 and cee’d compacts. The carmaker has also
won market share in the U.S. from Toyota after the Toyota City-
based company recalled more than 8 million vehicles worldwide
for repairs related to unintended accelerations.  “Hyundai and Kia have clearly benefitted from Toyota’s
massive recalls,” said  Ahn Sang Joon , an auto analyst at Tong
Yang Securities Inc. in Seoul. “They have also expanded their
model lineups in European markets giving more choices to
consumers.”  Overall auto sales in Europe have fallen 5 percent this
year to 11.6 million, according to the automakers group. Nissan
Motor Co. has posted the biggest increase among major brands,
with sales climbing 13 percent.  Hyundai-Kia Share  Hyundai and Kia’s combined market share in Europe totaled
4.5 percent through October, an increase of 0.4 percentage
points from a year earlier. The market share of Toyota, the
world’s biggest automaker, declined to 4.4 percent in the same
period from 5 percent, according to the automakers association.  The Korean automakers’ European sales may climb even more
next year as they are preparing to introduce new models
specifically designed for the region, said  Kim Byung Kuk , a
Seoul-based analyst at Daishin Securities Co.  Hyundai  fell  4 percent to close at 180,500 won in Seoul
trading today, while Kia dropped 2.3 percent to 50,600 won.
Hyundai owns 34 percent of Kia. Toyota gained 1.1 percent to
3,300 yen in Tokyo.  Hyundai  produces i30 compact cars at a plant in the Czech
Republic and Accent small cars in Turkey. Kia makes cee’d
compacts and Sportage sport-utility vehicles in Slovakia.  Hyundai’s U.S. sales have risen 21 percent this year, aided
by a 64 percent jump in demand for the midsize Sonata, while
deliveries of Toyota’s Camry dropped 6.3 percent and demand for
Honda Motor Co.’s Accord fell 3.4 percent.  The Seoul-based automakers’ combined global market share
will climb toward a record 8 percent this year and exceed that
figure next year, Edaily reported last week, citing Hyundai
Motor President  Yang Seung Suk .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sookyung Seo in Seoul at 
 sseo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  