-- `Insane' Interest Rates Spur Mantega to Slash BNDES Funding: Brazil Credit
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2010-12-01T22:56:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/-insane-interest-rates-spur-mantega-to-gut-bndes-funding-brazil-credit.html
Brazil plans to cut funding for its
state development bank by 50 percent next year in an effort to
bring down the world’s second-highest inflation-adjusted
interest rates.  The reduction in loans the government provides to BNDES, as
the bank is known, forms part of a plan to curb public spending,
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said in an interview in Brasilia
yesterday. Mantega, who was kept at his post by President-elect
 Dilma Rousseff , is seeking to cut subsidized lending that helped
push inflation to a five-month high of  5.2 percent  and drive up
local borrowing costs.  The central bank will begin boosting the benchmark interest
rate as soon as its next meeting on Dec. 8 and bring it to about
12.5 percent by the end of 2011, futures trading shows. Brazil,
whose inflation-adjusted rates are second only to Croatia among
46 countries tracked by Bloomberg, is paying 965 basis points
more to borrow locally than abroad. The country’s local debt
yields more than that of Greece and Ireland, which are receiving
aid from the European Union and International Monetary Fund.  “It’s insane when you look at the rates differentials”
between Brazil and Greece,  Pablo Cisilino , who helps manage $20
billion in emerging-market debt at Stone Harbor Investment in
New York, said in a telephone interview. In Brazil, “they have
an issue with real interest rates,” he said.  Rousseff’s government will cut the loans it provides to Rio
de Janeiro-based BNDES from 104.7 billion reais ($61.3 billion)
in 2010. It may also freeze more than 20 billion reais of the
2011 budget, Mantega said. Lending by the bank, which provides
subsidized credit for long-term projects, is contributing to the
fastest  economic growth  in more than two decades.  Overheating  Latin America’s biggest economy will  expand  7.6 percent
this year after shrinking 0.2 percent in 2009, according to the
median forecast in a central bank survey of economists published
Nov. 29.  Policy makers boosted the benchmark overnight lending rate
200 basis points, or 2 percentage points, since April to 10.75
percent to prevent the economy from overheating. International
investors, seeking alternatives to near-zero interest rates in
the U.S., Europe and Japan, have poured money into Brazil’s
fixed-income assets, sparking a two-year, 36 percent rally in
the real that’s helped swell the  current-account  deficit to an
annual record of $48 billion.  Mantega tripled a tax on foreign investors’ purchases of
fixed-income assets in October to stem the real’s advance as
other countries engage in what he has called a “currency war”
to weaken their exchange rates and bolster exports.  ‘Truce’  “It is important to carry out this fiscal consolidation
and help reduce interest rates, because this will end up helping
the currency, too,” Mantega, 61, said. The real is trading at a
“reasonable” level as the European debt crisis brings a
temporary “truce” to the global currency war, he said.  The 965 basis-point gap between Brazilian local bonds due
in 2017 and its overseas debt on Nov. 22 was the biggest in two
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. By contrast, the
yield spread for similar securities issued by Mexico is 261 and
235 for Russia. Brazil’s 10-year bonds yield 59 more than Greek
debt and 309 above Irish securities.  Ireland agreed to an 85 billion-euro ($111.5 billion) aid
package in November while Greece received a 110 billion-euro
rescue in May.  “At this moment there’s an anomaly,”  Michael Roche , an
emerging-market strategist at MF Global Holdings Ltd. in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “Brazil’s domestic rates
are well in excess of even other emerging markets and it’s
proven to be a challenge for them to manage their monetary
domestic affairs because of that.”  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to hold Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 16 basis points to 182 at
5:44 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase Co.  The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell six basis points
to 117, according to data compiled by CMA. Credit-default swaps
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The real rose 0.6 percent to 1.7049 per dollar.  The yield on Brazil’s overnight interest-rate futures
contract due in January 2012 rose 14 basis points to 12.13
percent.  The government’s plan to cut BNDES funding by half is not
enough to help the central bank control inflation, said  Felipe Salto , an economist at Sao Paulo-based research firm Tendecias
Consultoria Integrada.  “Mantega’s fiscal austerity speech doesn’t match with the
possibility of the Treasury lending another 50 billion reais to
the BNDES,” Salto said in a telephone interview. “The burden
of inflation control will continue with the central bank.”  Subsidized Rate  Rousseff, President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s former
cabinet chief, tapped  Alexandre Tombini  to head the central bank
last week. Tombini, who needs Senate confirmation, has served on
the bank’s board since 2005.  BNDES’ lending rate, which is set by the National Monetary
Council that Mantega heads, has been kept at 6 percent since
July 2009.  BNDES granted 171 billion reais of new loans in the 12
months through October, a 33 percent jump over the same year-ago
period, according to the bank’s  website . BNDES more than doubled
lending to Brazilian companies to 137.4 billion reais last year,
exceeding the $72.2 billion lent globally by the World Bank in
the fiscal year ended in June.  Reducing BNDES funding “is what they need to do in order
to reduce real rates,” said Stone Harbor’s Cisilino. “Local
investors in particular will like to see the execution of the
announcements. This is very positive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  