-- `Zombie' Economic Theories Stalk Planet, Threaten More Meltdowns: Books
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2010-12-01T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/-zombie-economic-theories-stalk-planet-threaten-more-meltdowns-books.html
Picture  Ben Bernanke  as a zombie in a
horror film. Staggering slack-jawed through the bullets, he
groans a terrifying phrase:  “Great Moderation, Greeeeeeat Moderaaaaaation!”  Erroneous economic ideas resemble the living dead, writes
 John Quiggin  in his smart new book, “Zombie Economics.” They
are dangerous yet impossible to kill. Even after a financial
crisis buries them, they survive in our minds and can rise
unbidden from the necropolis of ideology.  Consider the undying notion that booms and busts can be
tamed in a New Era of endless prosperity. The latest incarnation
of this zombie idea -- the Great Moderation popularized by
Federal Reserve Chairman Bernanke -- died in a storm of bailouts
and foreclosures. Yet the Great Moderation endures in academia,
says Quiggin, an economics professor at the  University of
Queensland  in Australia.  “Research projects based on explaining, measuring and
projecting the Great Moderation were not abandoned,” he writes.
“The intellectual commitments on which those projects are based
have proved tenacious.”  Quiggin maintains a  blog  offering commentary “from a
social-democratic perspective.” So you know where he’s coming
from. He proves an amiable guide through the graveyard of flawed
concepts and policy prescriptions that lulled investors into
thinking markets were forever infallible and policed themselves.  Mobs of Monsters  Zombie ideas are legion, ranging from trickle-down
economics to Dynamic Stochastic General Equilibrium modeling,
Quiggin says. Taken together, they form a bundle of theories,
policies and catchphrases that he terms “market liberalism,”
seeking a neutral name instead of pejoratives such as
Thatcherism and Reaganism.  “Unlike other monsters like werewolves and vampires,
zombies always come in mobs,” he writes. “Individually, they
seem easy enough to kill, but in a group their strength can be
overwhelming.”  One of the more vulnerable zombies is the strong form of
the Efficient Markets Hypothesis, which postulates that it’s
impossible to beat the market because stock prices already
incorporate all information held by traders. Though this zombie
should have perished in the  dot-com bust , its advocates “went
on as if nothing had happened,” Quiggin says. Only the Great
Credit Crackup drove home the lesson that markets can be
mispriced and downright irrational.  Trickle Down  In the last third of the book, Quiggin’s social-democratic
side comes to the fore as he dissects policies built on the
belief in ever-efficient markets. Trickle-down economics, for
example, assumes that policies helping the wealthy will benefit
everyone else. He rightly challenges that, noting that median
real earnings for U.S. workers lacking a college degree have
 stagnated or declined  since 1974 even as incomes of the most
affluent Americans have soared.  More contentiously, he attacks privatization, though it
becomes clear that he means “comprehensive” privatization --
the conviction that any function now handled by government can
be done better by private companies. Goodbye Social Security,
hello mercenary armies.  What he’s really seeking is a sensible balance between the
public and private spheres: “The mixed economy is back, and
it’s here to stay,” he says.  Financial disasters can make people receptive to economic
revolutions. When the Great Depression discredited laissez-faire
policies,  John Maynard Keynes  seized the day. When the Great
Inflation of the 1970s brought Keynesianism into question,
 Milton Friedman  led the charge. Whither economics now?  Beyond Keynesianism  Quiggin rules out “a simple return to traditional
Keynesian economics and the politics of the welfare state.” He
also chides those who try to absolve Keynesianism of its role in
the Great Inflation.  “It is important to avoid relying on easy excuses, such as
the 1973 oil shock, and to face the fact that the emergence of
stagflation reflected serious failures in the dominant version
of Keynesian macro theories,” he writes.  What he’s groping toward is an economics grounded in
reality. Economists can’t ignore booms and busts; nor can they
dismiss prolonged periods of  unemployment  as aberrations. They
need to recognize how real people behave in an economy enmeshed
in a complex social structure.  A little humility wouldn’t hurt, as Quiggin writes. “The
Global Financial Crisis gives the economics profession the
chance to bury the zombie ideas that led the world into crisis,
and to produce a more realistic, humble and above all socially
useful body of thought.”  Until then, expect endless reruns of “Night of the Living
Dead.”  “Zombie Economics: How Dead Ideas Still Walk Among Us” is
published by  Princeton  (238 pages, $24.95, 16.95 pounds). To buy
this book in North America, click  here .  ( James Pressley  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 James Pressley  in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 