-- Galaxy Leads Casino Operators Higher After Macau Revenue Surge
-- B y   F r a n k   L o n g i d
-- 2010-12-02T03:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/macau-november-casino-gambling-revenue-grows-42-to-2-2-billion.html
Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. ,
part-owned by Permira Advisers LLP, led Hong Kong-listed casino
stocks higher after Macau’s government said casino  revenue  in
the city rose 42 percent last month.  Galaxy  gained as much as 4.8 percent to HK$8.50, the
highest intraday level in two years, before trading at HK$8.45
as of 11:17 a.m. in Hong Kong.  Melco International Development
Ltd. , which has a venture with Australian billionaire  James Packer ’s  Crown Ltd. , climbed as much as 4.2 percent.  Gambling revenue for the six operators of casinos in Macau,
the only place in China where they’re legal, surged 57 percent
to 169.5 billion patacas ($22 billion) in the year through
November, according to  Macau’s Gaming Inspection and
Coordination Bureau . The  economy  of mainland China, where most
of  Macau’s visitors  come from, will probably grow 10 percent in
2010, according to the median forecast of 18 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The former Portuguese colony’s total casino gambling 
revenue was 17.4 billion patacas in November, 9 percent higher 
than estimated by CLSA Ltd. analysts  Aaron Fischer  and  Huei Suen Ng . “While the growth rate is slowing given higher base
comparisons going forward, momentum in terms of absolute gaming
revenue remains solid,” they said in a note to clients.  Billionaire  Stanley Ho ’s  SJM Holdings Ltd. , Asia’s biggest
listed casino operator, rose 1.1 percent to HK$12.32, extending
its gain this year to 188 percent.  Wynn Macau Ltd.  advanced 0.5
percent to HK$16.56.  CLSA Forecast  Sands China Ltd. , the Hong Kong-listed unit of billionaire
 Sheldon Adelson ’s Las Vegas-based company, was halted in Hong
Kong trading pending the release of a statement which the
company said would contain “price-sensitive information.”  CLSA had forecast Macau casino revenue of 15.5 billion
patacas for November, based on its estimates for the first 21
months of the month. “Gaming activity appears to have picked up
later in the month,” the brokerage’s analysts said and they
forecast Macau casino gambling revenue growth of 56 percent
this year.  Visitor arrivals in Macau, the world’s biggest casino hub,
have surged 16 percent this year, with about 53 percent coming
from mainland China, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Mainland China doesn’t include Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan.  MGM Resorts International has a casino venture in Macau
with  Pansy Ho , who is Stanley Ho’s daughter.  Macau surpassed the Las Vegas Strip as the world’s biggest
gambling hub by revenue in 2006, after the city government
ended Stanley Ho’s four-decade gambling monopoly and allowed
the entry of foreign operators.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  