-- Macquarie Group Hires Former Bear Stearns Banker Hassen for Oil, Gas Deals
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2010-12-01T19:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/macquarie-group-hires-former-bear-stearns-banker-hassen-for-oil-gas-deals.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. hired  Thomas Hassen , a former banker at Bear Stearns Cos. and Credit Suisse
Group AG, to be chairman of oil and gas banking as Australia’s
biggest investment bank seeks growth in the U.S.  Hassen, 68, will be based in New York, Sydney-based
Macquarie said today in a statement. Hassen most recently worked
at  Irving Place Capital Management LP , the private-equity firm
that used to be affiliated with Bear Stearns.  Macquarie has been bulking up its North American investment
bank as it seeks to reduce dependence on its infrastructure fund
business. It  bought  Fox-Pitt Kelton Cochran Caronia Waller, a
firm with 267 employees that focuses on financial services, and
real estate specialist Presidio Partners LLC in the past year.  “Energy is a big part of who Macquarie is, and we’re
looking to continue to build on that,” said  Tim Bishop , the
head of Macquarie’s U.S. operations, in an interview. Macquarie
plans to hire more oil and gas bankers, he said, and is looking
to expand in industrials, gaming, lodging and entertainment.  Most of Macquarie’s oil and gas advisory business in North
America comes from the acquisition of Tristone Capital Global
Inc., a Calgary-based energy boutique with 170 employees, in
2009, and Toronto-based Orion Financial Inc. in 2007.  Hassen worked at  Morgan Stanley  for 20 years, rising to co-
head of the energy investment-banking group. He left in 1998 for
Credit Suisse and joined Bear Stearns in 2005. He moved to
Irving Place after the sale of Bear Stearns to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in 2008.  Macquarie is the world’s 22nd-biggest adviser on mergers
and acquisitions this year, with $47.8 billion of transactions,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Morgan Stanley is
ranked first with $407.3 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 