-- Madoff Country-Club Tips Offer Lessons: Susan Antilla
-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 2010-12-01T09:50:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/madoff-country-club-tips-give-timeless-lesson-commentary-by-susan-antilla.html
Investors are still miffed with the
securities industry for the havoc that resulted from the credit
crisis. Financial advisers are somehow escaping that wrath.  At the  annual meeting  of the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association last month,  Kent Christian ,
president of Wells Fargo Advisors Financial Services Group, said
that while investors are down on Wall Street as an industry,
they often express “trust and confidence” when it comes to
their financial advisers.  From what I can tell, Christian is right, and that isn’t
always good news for individual investors. Yet it may explain
the results of some bad choices by people who are too trusting
or too lazy to check a broker’s background.  I’ve been watching in horror over the past year as cases
have come public where financial advisers with blemishes on
their records still managed to win the confidence of investors.  In an arbitration won by actor  Larry Hagman  and his wife in
October, Citigroup Inc. was ordered to pay $1.1 million in
compensatory damages and $439,000 in legal fees related to the
mishandling of the couple’s account by a broker who has seven
customer disputes on her publicly available records with the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority -- excluding the Hagman
case. Citigroup was also ordered to donate $10 million in
punitive damages to charities of Hagman’s choice.  Morgan Stanley Response  The broker,  Lisa Detanna , didn’t respond to telephone
messages at her home and her office, but a Morgan Stanley
spokeswoman,  Christine Pollak , told me on Nov. 29 that Detanna
“will be leaving the firm.”  Citigroup, whose stockbrokers operate in a joint venture
with Morgan Stanley, has filed a petition in California Superior
Court in Los Angeles to have the award nullified.  Finra’s records aren’t perfect: Brokers can get complaints
expunged under some circumstances, and some black marks don’t
show up at all. But this stuff isn’t brain surgery: Look up the
less-than-perfect Finra BrokerCheck, invest two minutes in a
Google search, and visit the “inmate locator” on the website
of the Bureau of Prisons.  The one thing you can probably count on: You’re asking for
trouble if you’re picking a broker based on a tout from your
country-club pals. If you don’t believe me, ask one of the
suckers from  Bernie Madoff ’s old client list.  Avoidable Misfortunes  Most of these misfortunes could have been avoided had
investors done minimal checking:  The Securities and Exchange Commission sued a Newport,
Rhode Island, man in October after he  allegedly  misappropriated
“substantially all” of the money he had obtained from 10
investors who invested in an online medical-registry company he
was pitching.  The investors should be embarrassed. David G. Stern had
been convicted of mail and wire fraud in 2002, serving two years
in prison -- or “a camp,” as he called it in a telephone
interview -- and was  disbarred  as a lawyer by Massachusetts in
1997 after he transferred millions from a client’s trust to a
company he had an interest in.  The disbarment pops up on a two-second Google search. The
 prison record  can be found at  http://www.bop.gov . Stern told me
he didn’t defraud anyone with his medical-registry company and
that “everyone was repaid in full” from his previous legal
difficulties. Maybe so. But wouldn’t it be smart to know about
his past before you signed up to do business with him?  Strippers and Gambling  Then there is Keith Epstein. In a criminal complaint filed
in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan
on Nov. 22, a Federal Bureau of Investigation agent said the
former broker had taken money from mostly elderly investors,
indulging in jaunts at strip clubs, online gambling, and even
handing over signed, blank checks to three exotic dancers.  Ron
Chapman , a Bloomfield Hills, Michigan lawyer who is handling $8
million in claims against Epstein, says one investor entrusted
new money to Epstein as recently as three months ago.  Michigan took away Epstein’s three insurance licenses in
October 2009, describing his actions as “thievery” in a  news
release . Finra barred him from the securities business for two
years beginning Jan. 20, 2009, a lenient temporary ouster
considering they said he’d engaged in “misuse” of investor
money. Why should any broker be let back in once that’s
happened?  Felony Trial  Epstein was arrested in October and awaits trial on four
felony counts in a jail at the Macomb County sheriff’s office.
His criminal lawyer, Eva Tkaczyk of Warren, Michigan, didn’t
return calls.  Mark Kowalsky , a Southfield, Michigan, lawyer
representing him in the civil suits against him, declined to
comment.  Sadly for investors, Finra knew in May 2007 that Epstein
had been put under review by a former employer and then fired,
but it doesn’t shares details like that with the public.  Then there are cases like those of  Irving Stitsky , a man
with a long record of abuses who was barred from the securities
industry in 1998 for his role in the New York securities firm
Stratton Oakmont Inc. In July, federal Judge  Kimba Wood 
sentenced him to 85 years in federal prison for his role in
defrauding more than 250 people in a $23 million real estate
investment.  Stitsky’s New York lawyer,  Denis Kelleher , said Stitsky has
filed a notice of appeal and is “in the process of forming his
brief.” The government said that Stitsky didn’t disclose his
role in the real estate deal to investors. But when you consider
how lax investors can be about checking the people to whom they
entrust their money you have to wonder if it would make any
difference.  Not everyone is as careful as Stitsky about covering his
tracks when he gets back into business after a regulatory tiff.
Still, that makes it worth doing some checking. You should never
be surprised to discover that the adviser who reminds you of
your favorite nephew turns out to be a conman who stayed out of
the headlines because he had a craftier lawyer than you could
ever afford.  ( Susan Antilla , the author of the 2002 book “Tales from
the Boom-Boom Room,” is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  