-- Lagardere in Talks to Sell International Magazines Unit, Including Elle
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-12-01T12:40:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/lagardere-in-talks-to-sell-international-magazines-unit-including-elle.html
Lagardere SCA , France’s biggest
publisher, is in “informal” talks that could lead to the sale
of its international magazine business, whose titles include Car
and Driver and Elle’s foreign editions.  The company wants to “re-center on the geographic zones
where it has critical mass,” a spokeswoman for the magazines
unit, Lagardere Active, said by phone. The discussions are aimed
at finding “possible partnerships” and may lead to joint
ventures rather than an outright sale, she said.  Lagardere, which also publishes Paris Match and  Stephenie
Meyer ’s “Twilight” novels, is looking to focus on its main
publishing businesses. Chief Executive Officer  Arnaud Lagardere 
started preparations for an initial public offering of its 20
percent stake in pay-TV operator Canal Plus France and also aims
to dispose of a 7.5 percent stake in aerospace company EADS NV.  Chief Financial Officer  Dominique D’Hinnin  said in August
that Lagardere, based in Paris, had received interest from
buyers for some or all of its U.S. magazine titles. As part of
any disposal, Lagardere would seek to retain “editorial
control” of Elle, which has more than 40 international
editions, the spokeswoman said today.  Lagardere shares rose as much as 4.9 percent to 29.83 euros
in Paris today, and were up 4.7 percent as of 1:35 p.m.  The Lagardere Active unit  accounted for  about 22 percent of
the company’s sales last year, or 1.7 billion euros.  In addition to publishing, Arnaud has pushed into sports
marketing and athlete representation through a new unit,
Lagardere Unlimited. In May, the company announced the
acquisition of Best, a U.S. sports agency with clients including
basketball player  Rafer Alston . It also took a minority stake in
Saddlebrook, a sports academy in Florida.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 