-- Jobless Aid Begins Expiring as Congress Deadlocks
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2010-12-01T20:34:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/aid-to-u-s-unemployed-begins-to-expire-as-congress-deadlocks-over-cost.html
Thousands of Americans are set to
begin losing  unemployment  benefits after Congress failed to
agree on extending aid to the long-term jobless.  In a replay of a dispute earlier this year, lawmakers are
deadlocked over how to finance an extension even as the aid
starts to lapse. Democrats yesterday offered to extend benefits
for a year, with the $56 billion cost financed with borrowed
money.  Republicans balked, demanding the extension be offset with
savings elsewhere in the government’s budget.  “Do we provide the important benefits by burdening future
generations by adding” to the government’s  budget deficit ,
Senator  Scott Brown , a Republican from  Massachusetts , asked
yesterday.  “Is there a better way? Of course there’s a better way,
especially if we work together,” he said.  About 8,400 Americans will see their unemployment benefits
cut off by the end of this week, according to the Labor
Department. By the end of the third week of December, aid to
1.36 million Americans will be interrupted, the agency said.  The benefits are “needed by families to buy necessities,”
House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  said at a news conference today.
Unemployment insurance “immediately injects demand into the
economy to create jobs,” said Pelosi, a California Democrat.  Tax Cuts  Senator Jack Reed, a Democrat from  Rhode Island , said
yesterday he didn’t understand why some lawmakers object to
extending benefits without offsetting the cost and “at the same
time insist that we provide tax cuts for the very richest
Americans without paying for them.” He was referring to the
impasse over extending tax cuts scheduled to expire at the end
of this year.  Some Democrats, including Senator  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois ,
said an extension of unemployment aid should be included as part
of any deal to extend tax cuts enacted during the administration
of President  George W. Bush .  President Barack Obama and many other Democrats want to
retain tax cuts passed in 2001 and 2003 only on the first
$200,000 annually earned by individuals and the first $250,000
earned by married couples filing jointly. Republicans want tax
cuts extended permanently for all income levels, saying that
allowing any taxes to rise during a fragile economic recovery is
a bad idea.  Boosting the Economy  Though the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  has
called jobless aid one of the best ways of boosting the economy
because the payments support  consumer spending , lawmakers have
struggled to extend the payments amid growing concern over the
deficit. Earlier this year, benefits were interrupted for more
than a month amid a similar dispute over whether to finance an
extension with borrowed money.  Democrats pushed the last extension through with the
support of two Republican senators --  Susan Collins  and  Olympia Snowe  of Maine.  Since December 2007 -- the start of the worst U.S.
recession since the Great Depression -- Congress has extended
the total amount of aid three times so that the unemployed could
receive up to 99 weeks of aid averaging $300 per week. The
government spent about $160 billion on  unemployment benefits  in
the fiscal year that ended Sept 30, or about what it cost to run
the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.  The National Bureau of Economic Research reported earlier
this year that the recession ended in June 2009.  9.6 Percent Unemployment  It is “unclear” whether the aid extensions have
contributed to the  unemployment rate  that stood at 9.6 percent
in October, according to CBO. It said in a Nov. 17  report  that
while aid dissuades some unemployed Americans from searching for
work, it also boosts demand for goods and services, which tends
to boost employment.  The aid extensions have reduced the nation’s poverty rate
in 2009 to 14.3 percent from the 15.4 percent that would have
been otherwise seen, according to CBO report.  Allowing benefits to lapse could hurt companies such as
 Dollar General Corp. (DG) , according to a September research note by
the investment firm William Blair & Company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington D.C. at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  