-- AIDS `Fatigue' May Cause Lack of Funds, Former UNAIDS Head Says
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2010-12-01T07:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/aids-fatigue-may-cause-lack-of-funds-former-unaids-head-says.html
Success in stemming HIV infections
caused “fatigue” toward combating the virus and may result in
reduced funding for treatment and prevention, said the former
executive director of the United Nations’  AIDS  program.  “There is clearly AIDS fatigue,”  Peter Piot , who became
director of the  London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine 
in September, said in a Nov. 25 interview in London. “Things go
by fashion. There’s a paradox that when there’s results, often
political leaders think, ‘OK, great, declare victory, we can
move to the next problem,’ because there are so many problems.
That would be really frightening, with bad consequences.”  AIDS, an immune disease that was first discovered in 1981,
killed 1.8 million people last year, down from a peak of 2.1
million in 2004, according to the UNAIDS annual report last
week. About 2.6 million people worldwide contracted HIV, the
AIDS-causing virus, last year, 19 percent fewer than in 1997,
when the number of new infections peaked, the report said. New
infections declined for a 12th straight year.  More than 1.2 million people began taking anti-HIV drugs in
2009, up 30 percent from a year earlier, said the Geneva-based
agency. About 5.2 million people in low- and middle-income
countries have access to treatments now, according to the
report.  While it’s “a spectacular success,” that more than 5
million people with HIV are being treated with antiviral drugs,
there are 33 million people with HIV in the world, said Piot,
61, who speaks at a conference in London today.  Funding Prevention  AIDS  funding  reached $15.9 billion last year, $10 billion
short of what is needed this year, according to UNAIDS. Funding
for prevention needs to be spent more selectively, Piot said.  “In Latin America, for example, most HIV-prevention
programs are directed towards the general public, people who are
not at high risk and there is not much going on in the gay
community where the problem is,” said Piot. “That’s a waste of
money then. My mother doesn’t need HIV prevention, she’s 87.”  Piot, a Belgium-born doctor and microbiologist, stepped
down as executive director of UNAIDS in 2008 after 13 years as
its head. He co-discovered the deadly  Ebola virus  in 1976.  Three prevention trials in 14 months that have raised hopes
that HIV can be defeated after decades of failed efforts to
develop a vaccine are “semi-breakthroughs,” Piot said.  Gilead Sciences Inc. ’s Truvada, sold since 2004 to subdue
HIV in infected people, cut the risk of contracting the virus by
44 percent, and reduced new infections as much as 73 percent in
those who used it most, according to results published last week
in the  New England Journal of Medicine .  Other research milestones on HIV and AIDS include a study
presented in July that showed a vaginal gel containing Gilead’s
Viread cut infections by 39 percent among women in South Africa.
In September last year, an experimental vaccine cut infections
by 31 percent in a trial in Thailand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Kay  in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  