-- Thailand's Unexpected Rate Rise Puts Onus on Indonesia as Inflation Climbs
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   M a n i s h   M o d i
-- 2010-12-02T04:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/thailand-rate-rise-puts-onus-on-indonesia-as-inflation-quickens.html
Thailand’s unexpected interest-rate
increase may escalate pressure on Indonesia to follow suit after
 inflation  accelerated in the world’s fourth-most populous nation.  Thailand brought to three the number of boosts to borrowing
costs in the Southeast Asian nation this year, matching
Malaysia’s moves. Indonesia, the region’s largest economy, has
yet to take the step, and will probably keep its benchmark rate
at 6.5 percent at a meeting tomorrow, according to all 20
economists in a Bloomberg News  survey .  Indonesia’s performance on inflation will play a part in
helping the country win a higher debt rating, Moody’s Investors
Service said yesterday, a step that may lower credit costs and
spur foreign direct investment in the nation. Thailand, whose
three-year debt yields are less than half Indonesia’s, enjoys an
investment-grade Moody’s rating that’s four steps higher than
its neighbor’s.  “Indonesia is the only major emerging economy in Asia not
to have made a move to normalize policy settings this year,”
said  Brian Jackson , an emerging-market strategist at Royal Bank
of Canada in Hong Kong. “Officials have shown a preference to
use other policy tools to manage liquidity and price pressures.
This approach, however, looks increasingly untenable.”  The  Bank of Thailand  raised the one-day bond repurchase
rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 2 percent yesterday,
saying it will continue to “normalize” borrowing costs amid
increasing inflationary pressures even as the timing for future
moves will be dependent on the economic situation.  Still Relevant  In contrast, Bank Indonesia Deputy Governor  Budi Mulya  said
last week the country’s benchmark rate is “still relevant” for
achieving the central bank’s 2011 inflation target of 4 percent
to 6 percent. The rupiah was little changed at 9,018 a dollar at
10:58 a.m. in Jakarta today.  Indonesia’s economy escaped a recession during last year’s
global slowdown and its expansion has spurred capital inflows,
pushed stocks to a record and lifted the rupiah to a three-year
high. Moody’s yesterday placed the Southeast Asian nation’s Ba2
credit rating on review for a possible upgrade.  The Moody’s “move is well warranted,”  Robert Prior- Wandesforde , Singapore-based head of India and Southeast Asia
economics at Credit Suisse Group AG, said yesterday. “If the
country can keep inflation well contained over the coming year,
then a move to investment grade beckons.”  The  Jakarta Composite Index  has gained 45 percent this year,
boosting stocks of companies including lender PT Bank Central
Asia and noodle-maker PT Indofood Sukses Makmur. The rupiah has
risen 4.1 percent against the dollar.  Inflation Quickens  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  is targeting annual
growth of 6.6 percent on average through the remainder of his
term ending in 2014. Consumer confidence rose in October from
September, with a central bank index measuring expectations
climbing 4.4 points to 112, the highest level since August 2009.  Indonesia’s consumer prices rose 6.33 percent last month
from a year earlier, the Central Bureau of Statistics said
yesterday, beating all estimates in a Bloomberg News survey of
20 economists. The gain compared with a 5.67 percent increase in
October.  “Bank Indonesia will likely remain reactive rather than
pre-emptive,” said  Chua Hak Bin , a director of global research
at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Singapore. “Rising
commodity prices, including both food and fuel, will continue to
intensify inflation pressures in the coming months. Monetary
tightening would likely occur through non-interest-rate measures
as a first resort.”  Irish Bailout  Any rate increase would come at a time when sovereign
credit woes in Europe are re-emerging with Ireland becoming the
second euro country to get a bailout. Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said this week the U.S. economy isn’t growing
fast enough to “materially” reduce unemployment that is above
9 percent.  Thai Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  said today the
central bank’s unexpected rate increase is a concern for
economic growth. Thailand’s economy grew 6.7 percent last
quarter, the slowest pace this year, as exports eased and
agriculture declined.  “We are concerned about the impact from the rate increase
at a time when the economy has started to slow down,” Korn said,
adding that the higher rate will have limited impact on the baht
because the nation’s borrowing costs remain low compared with
others in Asia.  Nations from Japan to the U.S. are adding monetary stimulus
that could increase the risk of an influx of capital into
emerging markets where interest rates are higher.  Bank Indonesia has ordered lenders to set aside larger
reserves, aiming to rein in liquidity without hurting economic
expansion. The central bank unveiled measures earlier this year
to encourage investors to keep their money in the country longer
and reduce volatility in capital flows and the currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  