-- Thailand Unexpectedly Raises Interest Rate to Tame Inflationary Pressures
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2010-12-01T11:31:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/thailand-unexpectedly-raises-interest-rate-a-third-time-to-tame-inflation.html
Thailand unexpectedly raised interest
rates for the third time this year, signaling policy makers view
inflation as a bigger threat than slowing growth. The baht rose.  The  Bank of Thailand  increased the  one-day bond repurchase
rate  by a quarter of a percentage point to 2 percent after
leaving the benchmark unchanged at the previous meeting,
according to a statement in Bangkok today. The decision was
predicted by 5 of 17 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News. The
rest expected no change.  “Inflation pressure, while stable now, is expected to rise
in line with economic growth,” Bank of Thailand Assistant
Governor  Paiboon Kittisrikangwan  said in a news conference in
Bangkok today. “The central bank will continue to normalize the
interest rates.”  Thailand joins South Korea in resuming monetary tightening
as pressure on Asian currencies to strengthen eases, reducing
the threat to exports. The baht fell to a two-month low earlier
this week after the government in October removed a 15 percent
tax exemption for foreigners on income from domestic bonds to
discourage capital inflows and the central bank said in November
it has additional tools available.  “We believe that further tightening is in the pipeline,”
HSBC Holdings Plc economists including Singapore-based  Wellian Wiranto  said in a note after the decision. “The continued rates
normalization, as it takes place today, is a prudent
policymaking move” given the growth outlook and potential
inflationary pressures, the analysts said.  Baht Climbs  After the central bank statement, the baht climbed 0.5
percent to 30.05 per dollar as of 5:52 p.m. in Bangkok, the
biggest gain since Oct. 6, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency has advanced 10.8 percent this year, the
best performance in Asia. Thailand’s  benchmark stock index  rose
1.3 percent at 4:20 p.m.  The Thai currency has declined more than 1.5 percent since
reaching a 13-year high of 29.46 a dollar on Nov. 10 as concern
European nations will struggle to pay their debt encouraged
investors to seek safety in the dollar, cutting demand for
emerging-market assets.  “This is a good opportunity for the central bank to raise
the key rate as the baht pressure has subsided,” said  Benjarong Suwankiri , an economist at TMB Bank Pcl in Bangkok who correctly
predicted a move today. “There are lots of factors that may
boost price pressures. If they don’t do it now, they will find
it a lot harder to speed up raising the rate next year when
economic growth will be slower than this year.”  Exporters Complain  Companies including General Motors Co., Ford Motor Co. and
 Siam Cement Pcl  have said the baht’s strength is a threat to
exports of Thai products, which include cars, rice and
electronics. Bank of Thailand Governor  Prasarn Trairatvorakul 
said last month capital inflows remain “a phenomenon that we
have to be careful of.”  Asked about the risk that a rate increase will lure more
capital that has pushed up the currency, Paiboon said today
interest rates are “not the key factor for capital inflows.”  Asian markets including China, Hong Kong and Taiwan have
introduced measures including higher down payments on loans this
year to cool their property markets amid concerns that asset
bubbles are forming as home prices surge. Thailand imposed new
lending restrictions for some condominium and residential
property purchases as a “preemptive action.”  Negative Rates  Current interest rates are still below inflation levels,
“which will create distortions in market mechanisms, reduce
savings and lead to asset bubbles in the future,” Paiboon said.  “This means, from the authorities’ point of view, that
Thai growth is strong enough to withstand rate increases,” said
 Nalin Chutchotitham , a Bangkok-based analyst at Kasikornbank Pcl.
Elevated private consumption and investment next year may raise
the risk that inflation will accelerate “at a much faster
pace,” Nalin said.  Southeast Asia’s largest  economy  after Indonesia grew 6.7
percent last quarter, the slowest pace this year, as exports
eased and agriculture declined. Thai  export growth  slowed to
15.7 percent in October, the slowest pace in a year, and
 consumer confidence  fell in October for the first time in six
months.  “With the economy recovering, the authorities are
normalizing the policy stance, winding back fiscal deficits and
beginning to raise interest rates,” the International Monetary
Fund said today in a  report . “Since policy rates are far from
neutral, significant adjustments will eventually be needed.”  Rates May Rise Further  The central bank expects economic growth to accelerate to
as much as 8 percent this year, the fastest pace in 15 years,
before slowing to between 3 percent and 5 percent next year.  “Current rates are not appropriate” for these levels of
growth, Paiboon said. “Still, we will have to look at the
timing of the rate adjustment as the global situation is highly
uncertain.”  The bank has said  core inflation , which it uses to guide
policy, may reach the upper end of its target range of as much
as 3 percent next year. The government plans to increase state
employee’s salaries next year.  Overall inflation  was unchanged at 2.8 percent last month,
the commerce ministry said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  