-- United Technologies CEO Sees Decade-Long Engine Effort Pay Off
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2010-12-02T01:11:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/airbus-s-neo-lands-pratt-back-in-biggest-engine-market-boosts-ge-safran.html
United Technologies Corp.  Chief
Executive Officer  Louis Chenevert  was president of the Pratt &
Whitney unit when he promised in 1999 that a new geared turbofan
would return the company to the biggest airline market.  The decision yesterday by Toulouse, France-based Airbus SAS
to offer Pratt & Whitney’s engine, now called the PurePower, on
the upgraded A320 jet may prove him right.  “It’s a nice victory to see recognition that the strategy
you put in place -- if you live long enough -- comes true,”
Chenevert said in an interview, adding that he’s confident the
engine will perform. “I’ve been with the company 18 years, most
of them at Pratt, and there was a strategic challenge. I’d say
we’ve answered the strategic challenge in a big way now.”  The PurePower returns Pratt & Whitney to the market for
narrow-body aircraft engines that it makes on its own. Until
now, it has been a member of a consortium making engines for the
A320. Three decades ago, the company took a pass on the
bestselling  Boeing Co. 737.   The PurePower will compete with the Leap-X from CFM
International, a joint venture of bigger rival  General Electric
Co.  and  Safran SA .  Airbus’s decision to offer the PurePower “is an important
strategic turning point for Pratt,” said  Jeffrey Sprague , an
analyst at Vertical Research Partners in Stamford, Connecticut,
who follows both GE and United Technologies. “They still have
to execute and compete, but the 20-to-30 year story of secular
decline at Pratt commercial has come to an end.”  Revenue Stream  United Technologies shares closed yesterday at their
highest price in three years. The Hartford, Connecticut-based
company  rose  $2.99, or 4 percent, to $78.26 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE
 gained  47 cents, or 3 percent, to $16.30. Safran climbed 4.7
percent, to 25.28 euros in Paris.  Developing a new jet engine, which can cost more than $1
billion, offers decades-long revenue streams to manufacturers
from maintenance and parts. Pratt & Whitney spent more than that
over the decade it developed the PurePower. It previously
stumbled in its effort to tap the market, when the PW6000 engine
failed to attract sales on the A318 model.  “We have not dropped the geared fan technology,”
Chenevert said in a 1999 interview. “We are proving we are not
prisoners of our past and will compete in the marketplace going
forward.”  The PurePower engine uses a gear to slow the outer fan of
the engine, increasing fuel efficiency and reducing noise. CFM’s
Leap-X concentrates on improvements in the engine’s core, or hot
section.  CFM’s Leap-X  CFM’s offering for the Airbus will help cement its leading
position, President  Eric Bachelet  said in an interview. The
venture already makes the sole power plant for Boeing’s 737 and
offers an engine for existing Airbus narrow-body models.  “The choice by Airbus of the Leap-X validates the
technology choices and options put on the engine, and that’s a
very good thing,” Bachelet said. “Second, it increases the
number of applications for this engine and it improves the
business case.”  In 2010, CFM expects to produce 1,275 engines, both
commercial and military, and 1,400 in 2012, said  Jamie Jewell , a
company spokeswoman. The A320 and 737 are twin-engine models
that seat about 125 to 185 people. List prices for each plane
range from about $65 million to $95 million, depending on the
version. GE Aviation is the world’s biggest jet-engine maker,
followed by London-based  Rolls-Royce Group Plc  and Pratt &
Whitney.  Competing Engine  Pratt & Whitney and Rolls-Royce currently offer a competing
engine on existing A320 models via a venture called
International Aero Engines. Rolls-Royce has decided not to offer
an engine for the Airbus’s upgraded line of aircraft,  Andrew Shilston , the company’s chief financial officer, said yesterday.  “We found the business case unappealing,” Shilston told
investors at the Credit Suisse Aerospace & Defense Conference in
New York. “We have other options that look to be more
profitable.”  Montreal-based  Bombardier Inc.  has opted to use the Pratt &
Whitney geared turbofan on its new 110-seat CSeries jet, while
Commercial Aircraft Corp. of China, or Comac, will offer the
Leap-X on its new narrow-body aircraft, the C919.  “What they’re doing is upgrading their existing airplane
with a new engine, which does help, but it still really can’t
compete with a new CSeries,”  Gary Scott , who runs Bombardier’s
commercial aerospace division, said in an interview yesterday.
“We’re delighted, actually, that Airbus has endorsed the geared
turbofan and our engine selection.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 