-- Airbus Plan for A320 Engine Puts Pressure on Boeing to Upgrade Its 737 Jet
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   J u l i a n n   N e h e r
-- 2010-12-01T21:16:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/airbus-s-plan-for-new-a320-engine-puts-pressure-on-boeing-to-upgrade-737.html
Airbus SAS ’s move to offer new
engines for its A320 aircraft series is set to intensify
competition with  Boeing Co.  in the biggest part of the civil-
aviation market.  Airbus unveiled its decision today after the two companies
circled each other for months over which would act first on a
new single-aisle jet or upgraded engines. Boeing isn’t
committing yet to a new engine for its 737 or a replacement
aircraft,  Nick West , a spokesman said in an e-mail.  Success in selling narrow-body jets determines the
industry’s pecking order because Airbus and Boeing derive most
of their  earnings  from the planes. Analysts are now watching for
the response from Chicago-based Boeing, which was leapfrogged by
Airbus in 2003 as the global leader in airliner deliveries.  “We do not look for a formal announcement as Boeing
prefers to leave its options open,”  Julian Mitchell , a Credit
Suisse analyst in New York, said in a note today. Instead,
Boeing is likely to unveil an all-new successor to the 737 “in
2-3 years’ time,” Mitchell wrote.  Airbus said it will make available two new engine choices
on the A320 to increase fuel efficiency by 15 percent, and can
start delivering the new versions starting in early 2016. Making
the changes will probably cost no more than $2 billion, Airbus
predicts, a fraction of the money a new  aircraft  would devour.  Twin-Engine Rivals  Both the A320 and 737 are twin-engine models that seat
about 125 to 185 people. List prices for each plane range from
about $65 million to $95 million, depending on the version. A
successor to the A320 won’t come before the middle of the next
decade because materials won’t be advanced enough before then to
justify the development expense, Airbus has said.  Boeing last month began testing small tweaks to its
existing 737 that will make the plane 2 percent more fuel
efficient by the middle of next year.  “If indeed the Airbus product offering offers a 15 percent
more fuel efficient aircraft, then Boeing has to respond,”
 Henri Courpron , chief executive officer of Los Angeles-based
 International Lease Finance Corp ., the largest lessor by the
value of its aircraft portfolio, said in an interview.  Unlike the A320, the Boeing 737 now only comes with a
single engine option, made by the CFM International joint
venture of  General Electric Co.  and Safran SA.  ‘95 Percent Chance’  “There’s a 95 percent chance that Boeing, too, decides to
re-engine,” said  Yan Derocles , an analyst at Paris-based Oddo
Securities, who advises investors to buy  shares  of Airbus parent
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. “They don’t have any
other choice. They can allow themselves six months or so to see
what response Airbus gets before making a definitive decision.”  Fitting different engines under a 737’s wing would be more
challenging for Boeing because the aircraft already sits so
close to the ground that the landing gear would need to be
redesigned to allow enough clearance.  Boeing is “happy” to await engine developments from GE
and Pratt & Whitney since it has an order backlog of more than
2,100 of its latest-model 737s, said  Peter Arment , a Gleacher &
Co. analyst. The planemaker “wants a bigger and much more
capable narrow-body aircraft, which can only come from a clean-
sheet design,” he said in a note.  ‘Not as Compelling’  Jim Albaugh , CEO of Boeing Commercial Airplanes, said in an
interview in October that the business case for new engines “is
not as compelling as we’d like to see,” even after customers
including Southwest Airlines Inc. and  Ryanair Holding Plc  urged
manufacturers to offer options to increase fuel efficiency.  “We expect that Boeing will have to respond, although
Boeing has been very negative about the likelihood of it re-
engining the 737,” said  Douglas Harned , a New York-based
analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., in a note today.
“Despite Boeing’s objections, we continue to see the best
option for Boeing as re-engining.”  Harned recommends buying Boeing shares, as do the analysts
at Gleacher and Credit Suisse.  Airbus made its name with the A320, introduced in 1988 with
novelties such as fly-by-wire electronic handling. The 737
entered commercial service in 1968 and is the world’s most
widely flown airliner.  EADS gained 22 cents, or 1.3 percent, to 17.48 euros in
Paris. Boeing rose $1.95, or 3.1 percent, to $65.72 at 4:02 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrea Rothman  in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
 Juliann Neher  in Washington at 
 jneher1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net 
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  