-- U.S. Sued by Harvard Law Students Over Intrusive Airport Scans, Pat-Downs
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2010-12-02T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/airport-scanners-enhanced-patdowns-bring-lawsuit-by-massachusetts-pair.html
The U.S. government was sued in
federal court in Boston by two Harvard University law students
who claim their constitutional rights were violated by “nude
body scanners” and “enhanced pat-downs” at airports.  Jeffrey Redfern, 27, and Anant Pradhan, 23, who are members
of the law school’s class of 2012, said the security measures
taken at airports are “intrusive” and violate the Fourth
Amendment of the U.S. Constitution, according to their complaint
filed Nov. 29.  The students, who said they are regular travelers who use
Boston’s Logan International Airport, seek a declaration that
mandatory screening using the enhanced measures is
unconstitutional and a ban on the techniques “without
reasonable suspicion or probable cause.”  More than 400 body scanners, which are designed to detect
non-metallic weapons beneath clothing, have been installed in at
least 70 U.S. airports. Fewer than 50 were in use a year ago,
the Transportation Security Administration has said.  The TSA has accelerated adoption of the scanners since a
Northwest Airlines passenger tried to blow up a flight to
Detroit on Dec. 25 by igniting explosives in his underpants. The
bomb failed to fully detonate.  The scanners in use at airports produce images of the nude
body. Travelers who don’t want their bodies scanned can receive
an “enhanced pat-down” by airport security staff.  Pradhan, traveling from Boston to Dallas on Nov. 24, and
Redfern, flying to Washington from Logan on Nov. 17, opted out
of the scanners and were given pat-downs, according to the
complaint.  ‘Genitals and Buttocks’  “Plaintiffs found the process highly intrusive, including
touching, better described as prodding and lifting of the
genitals and buttocks,” they said in the suit.  Named as defendants were  Janet Napolitano , Secretary of
Homeland Security, and  John Pistole , administrator of the TSA.  Amy Kudwa , a spokeswoman for the Department of Homeland
Security, declined to comment and referred calls to the TSA.
Sterling Payne, a spokeswoman for the TSA, declined to comment
on pending litigation.  “I don’t think Anant and I want to enter the public fray
any more than we have to --especially during finals period,”
Redfern said yesterday in an e-mail.  “We honestly don’t have much to say that would be of
general interest,” he said. “So much has been said about this
issue in the last month, and while we think we have some solid
legal theories, they would be terribly boring to anyone but a
lawyer.”  The case is Redfern v. Napolitano, 10-cv-12048, U.S.
District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Donald Jeffrey  in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Dolmetsch  in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 