-- Malaysia Leads Asian Mergers Rebound After Easing Takeover, Property Rules
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2010-12-02T06:54:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/malaysia-leads-asian-m-a-rebound-as-najib-eases-takeover-rules.html
Malaysia is the fastest growing
market for mergers and acquisitions in the Asia-Pacific region
as companies seize on record valuations and relaxed takeover
rules to catch up with rivals in India and Singapore.  Acquisitions of Malaysian companies almost tripled so far
this year compared with all of 2009 to $21.3 billion, the
highest in three years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
In November alone, Malaysian real estate developers announced
three mergers worth almost a combined $3 billion.  “This is a year of M&A for Malaysia,” said  Chay Wai Leong ,
managing director of Kuala Lumpur-based RHB Investment Bank Bhd.,
the top-ranked adviser on takeovers of Malaysian companies this
year, according to Bloomberg data. “The sentiment is good and
there is a recognition of the need for scale.”  The deal rebound came after Prime Minister  Najib Razak  last
year eased rules governing takeovers, initial public offerings
and property purchases as Malaysia faced its first economic
contraction in a decade. Najib, 57, is pushing for consolidation
after finding during a 2009 trip to New York that the relatively
small size of Malaysian companies deterred U.S. investors.  Malaysian mergers have outpaced investment in the Asia-
Pacific region, where the $435 billion of deals announced in
2010 marks a 7 percent gain from last year, Bloomberg data show.  Carlyle Group, the world’s second-largest private equity
company, made a 1.9 billion ringgit ($602 million) takeover
offer for Malaysian fast-food chain operator  QSR Brands Bhd. ,
according to a statement on Nov. 25 by Kulim Malaysia Bhd.,
QSR’s biggest shareholder. Kulim rejected the bid on Nov. 29.  ‘Off the Radar’  Domestic consolidation has powered Malaysian deals this
year, with mergers between local companies accounting for about
three-quarters of total acquisitions, Bloomberg data show. The
country’s main stock  index  closed at a record 1528.01 on Nov. 10,
and today gained 0.8 percent in Kuala Lumpur at 2:47 p.m. local
time.  Even after the  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index  rose 18
percent this year, the average company on the gauge has a market
value of $4.9 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s
60 percent smaller than in neighboring Singapore and 57 percent
below counterparts in  India . All three countries’ benchmarks
include 30 stocks.  “The consolidation is partly driven by the need to boost
capacity,” said  Tengku Zafrul Tengku Abdul Aziz , chief
executive officer of Maybank Investment Bank Bhd. in a telephone
interview. “You need scale to compete in Malaysia and to go
abroad. Malaysian companies have fallen off the radar of foreign
investors for years because they are too small.”  Property Deals  Malaysian tycoon  Jeffrey Cheah  said on Nov. 24 that he’s
merging  Sunway Holdings Bhd.  and Sunway City Bhd., two property
and construction companies he controls, in a transaction valued
at $2 billion. IJM Land Bhd. and Malaysian Resources Corp Bhd.
earlier said they planned to swap shares valued at $2 billion,
while state-controlled UEM Land Holdings Bhd. made a $447
million bid for  Sunrise Bhd.   “When you have a bigger sized company, of course you can
take in bigger jobs and bigger projects,” Sunway’s Cheah told
reporters on Nov. 24.  RHB Capital Bhd. ’s RHB Investment Bank overtook CIMB Group
Holdings Bhd. to become the No. 1 adviser on acquisitions of
Malaysian companies for the first time since at least 2005,
working on $11.5 billion of deals, Bloomberg data show. RHB
ranked 7th last year. CIMB, the country’s biggest bank by market
value, has arranged $11.2 billion worth of deals, the data show.  Banks ‘Flush’  Adding to the M&A surge, quantitative easing by the U.S.
Federal Reserve has resulted in money flowing into Asia,
boosting  share  prices and making deals more attractive for both
buyers and sellers, said  Ho Weng Yew , Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc’s head of banking in Malaysia.  “It’s pent-up demand,” Ho said in a telephone interview.
“There haven’t been that many M&A deals in the last three years.
Liquidity is not a problem to finance transactions. Asian banks
are still very flush.”  Foreign direct investment in Malaysia tumbled 81 percent to
$1.4 billion in 2009, according to the United Nation’s World
Investment Report. Since Najib’s New York trip in November last
year, the government has announced an economic transformation
program and liberalization measures, including steps to roll
back some policies that favored the country’s ethnic Malays and
indigenous people.  Najib also dropped a requirement that the country’s Foreign
Investment Committee must approve all acquisitions by overseas
companies.  Malaysia attracted 5.1 billion ringgit of foreign direct
investment in the first quarter of this year, almost matching
the total for 2009, International Trade & Investment Minister
 Mustapa Mohamed  said in July. The government forecasts economic
growth of up to 7 percent in 2010, the fastest pace in a decade.  “This is perhaps the beginning of a private sector
transformation program, catalyzed by what the government has
been doing,” CIMB Chief Executive Officer  Nazir Razak  said in a
text message to Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Barry Porter  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
 Chong Pooi Koon  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser in Hong Kong at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  