-- Allergan Lap-Band Effective in Treating More Obese People, FDA Staff Says
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2010-12-01T21:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/allergan-lap-band-safe-for-use-in-broader-population-group-fda-staff-says.html
Allergan Inc. ’s Lap-Band weight-loss
device is safe and effective in more obese people than it’s now
approved to treat, U.S. regulators said.  Clinical trials showed the Lap-Band improved health-related
quality of life in patients who aren’t so obese as current
users, the Food and Drug Administration said today. Approval
would make Lap-Band available, for instance, to a 5-foot-9 inch
man who weighs 203 to 236 pounds, compared with the current
minimum of 270 for that height.  The adjustable silicon band helps people lose weight by
reducing the amount of food their stomachs can hold. Allergan,
the Irvine, California-based maker of the wrinkle smoother
Botox, seeks clearance to sell the device for obese people with
lower body mass indexes than the “severely” obese, whom the
 FDA approved  the device to treat in 2001.  Surgically implanting the Lap-Band “resulted in
statistically significant decreases in all measures of weight
loss,” FDA reviewers said in today’s  report . More than 65
percent of trial participants lost at least half their excess
weight within 12 months.  About 220,000 people in the U.S. underwent weight-loss
surgery last year, according to the  American Society for
Metabolic & Bariatric Surgery , a Gainesville, Florida-based
doctors’ organization. Being overweight costs Americans as much
as $150 billion a year from ills such as diabetes, heart disease
and cancer, as obese people carry almost $1,500 more in yearly
medical expenses, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, based in Atlanta, said in a report in August.  No Deaths  No deaths or “unanticipated adverse events” occurred with
the Lap-Band, the report showed. Most side effects were mild,
and “only 2.3 percent were severe,” the FDA staff said.  Outside advisers to the agency are scheduled to meet Dec. 3
to evaluate the findings and vote on whether benefits of
expanded use outweigh any potential risks.  The FDA will ask the advisers to discuss whether clinical
trial participants sufficiently represented patients in the U.S.
who would be eligible to receive the device. Most U.S. patients
in the study were white women, according to the report.  Allergan’s obesity products generated $258 million in
revenue last year, mostly from Lap-Band sales. Approval for
wider use may help boost sales to $390 million in 2016,  Louise Chen , an analyst with Collins Stewart LLC in New York, said Nov.
30 in a research note. Revenue may climb to $500 million if
unemployment decreases and consumer spending rises, she said.  Laparoscopic Incisions  Allergan rose 19 cents to $66.46 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock climbed 13 percent
in the 12 months through yesterday.  The Lap-Band is implanted around the upper part of the
stomach through laparoscopic incisions that are less invasive
than gastric-bypass or stomach-stapling surgeries. The device is
approved for people who are at least 100 pounds (45 kilograms)
 overweight , have a body mass index of at least 40, or have a BMI
of at least 35 with obesity-related conditions such as heart
problems.  A BMI of 40 is about equivalent to a 5-foot 9-inch (175-
centimeter) person who weighs 270 pounds, according to the U.S.
 National Institutes of Health , based in Bethesda, Maryland. The
index, used to estimate what constitutes a healthy weight based
on an individual’s height, is weight in pounds times 703 divided
by the square of height in inches.  Targeting Adolescents  The expanded use, if approved by FDA, would let Allergan
market the device for patients with a body mass index of at
least 35, and people with a BMI of at least 30 who have obesity-
related conditions. A person who is 5 feet, 9 inches tall would
weigh about 236 pounds with a  BMI of 35 , and 203 pounds if the
BMI is 30, according to the NIH.  “The approval and launch of a new indication for Lap-Band
is good” for Allergan, “but uptake may be slow given the high
unemployment rate,” Chen said in yesterday’s note. The company
“will also have to work with payers on reimbursement if the new
indication is approved,” she said.  Allergan also is seeking FDA clearance to market the Lap-
Band to obese adolescents. The agency hasn’t scheduled an
advisory panel meeting on that proposal. Allergan acquired the
product in March 2006 when it completed the purchase of Inamed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Molly Peterson  in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 