-- Alvin Ailey Honors Joan Weill's Service, Luring Sandy Weill to Dance Group
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2010-12-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/alvin-ailey-honors-joan-weill-s-service-sandy-weill-s-support.html
Tonight  Joan H. Weill , who hung up
her ballet shoes long ago, will be honored for her decade-long
patronage of the  Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater .  “Judith inspired me,” Weill said in a phone interview,
referring to the company’s head,  Judith Jamison . “When they
asked me to join the board, one of the things I asked was do I
get to meet Ms. Jamison? That was very important to me.”  The building that houses the Ailey company is named after
Weill. Her love of the art form helped nudge her billionaire
husband, Citigroup Inc. Chairman Emeritus  Sanford “Sandy” Weill , to become a supporter. Over the years, the couple has
donated between $30 million and $35 million to the nonprofit.  Weill said that while she’s aware her philanthropy has
helped put the nonprofit on solid footing, it was the legendary
choreographer Ailey who laid the foundation for its success. The
organization, which has an annual operating budget of $29
million, is led by Executive Director  Sharon Gersten Luckman .  Ailey, who died in 1989, created the dance group in 1958 to
combine modern dance with ballet, jazz and African ethnic
rhythms and concepts. Jamison, who joined the company in 1965,
succeeded him as artistic director.  “It all started with Mr. Ailey, because he was really the
visionary,” she said. “He started the arts and  education 
programs and outreach programs before they had a name.”  ‘Hunt’ Premiere  At tonight’s event, the Ailey company will perform the
premiere of “The Hunt,” a modern ballet for six men
choreographed by artistic director designate  Robert Battle , who
will succeed Jamison in 2011. Also on the bill is a new
production of Ailey’s “Cry,” and the 50-year-old classic
“Revelations,” accompanied by the a cappella group  Sweet Honey
in the Rock .  Sandy Weill will serve as co-chairman, along with his
daughter,  Jessica Bibliowicz , chief executive of National
Financial Partners Corp.; Simin and  Herb Allison Jr ., former
U.S. assistant secretary of the Treasury; Kathryn and  Kenneth Chenault , American Express Co.’s chief executive officer; and
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. President  Gerald L. Hassell  and
his wife, Agnes; and lawyer  Samuel “Sandy” Lindenbaum  and
wife, Linda.  Building Project  Weill said one of her proudest accomplishments is
overseeing the fundraising and construction of the $54 million,
77,000-square-foot  Joan Weill Center for Dance , the Ailey
company’s home, which opened in 2005. The Weills gave Ailey $15
million toward the project.  “This building sort of grounded us,” said Weill, who
studied dance and piano as a child growing up in New York and
California. “Art museums have a home, and dance companies
really didn’t until we built this building.”  Weill, a  Brooklyn College  graduate, met her husband on a
blind date before he got his degree from Cornell University in
1955. When they married, they started out “with absolutely
zero,” she said. Sandy Weill started work as a $35-a-week
runner for Bear Stearns Co. in 1955 and went on to become co-
chairman and CEO of Citigroup Inc. in 1998.  “We’re passionate about what we do,” she said about their
philanthropy. “It’s not just about writing a check. It’s about
really giving your time and yourself to the organization.”  To contact the writer on this story:
 Patrick Cole  in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 