-- AngloGold Seeks to Dig World’s Deepest Mines, Curb Worker Deaths
-- B y   R o n   D e r b y
-- 2010-12-01T08:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/anglogold-to-dig-world-s-deepest-mines-curb-deaths-as-production-dwindles.html
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. , the third-
largest producer of the metal, plans to dig the world’s deepest
mines in South Africa, where shrinking reserves and stoppages
after fatal accidents pushed output to the lowest in a century.  AngloGold has brought together a group including General
Electric Co. to figure out how to reach gold in excess of 5
kilometers (3.1 miles) down, or more than a kilometer lower than
any other mine, Chief Executive Officer  Mark Cutifani  said. At
the same time it aims to use more machinery to curb fatalities.  “We’re putting the foundations in place for the future,
for the next 30 to 40 years in the South African gold
industry,” he said in an interview in Johannesburg yesterday,
adding the plans may take 5 to 10 years to complete.  South African producers have failed to benefit fully from
record gold prices as they dig further to reach dwindling ore,
pay higher labor and energy costs, and are forced to halt output
following fatal accidents. More than 54,000 miners have been
killed in the past century in South Africa’s gold mines, which
are the deepest and among the most dangerous in the world.  AngloGold has the potential to mine an extra 100 million
ounces of gold by excavating down, Cutifani said. “Even if we
get 50 percent of that, it means there is another 30 years of
those ounces” for the company to extract, he added. The company
expects to produce 4.5 million ounces this year.  The company’s Mponeng operation in South Africa is the
deepest mine in the world at about 4 kilometers, while the
country’s output last year was the lowest since 1907.  Boost Mechanization  “As a union, our worry with deep-level mining is safety of
our workers,”  Lesiba Seshoka , a spokesman for the National
Union of Mineworkers, said by mobile phone yesterday. “The
deeper you go, the more dangerous. As long as they can do it
safely, we are happy. They must let us know how.”  South Africa began suspending mining operations following
fatal accidents after deaths rose more than 10 percent in 2007
to an estimated 221. Last year, 167 miners lost their lives,
according to the NUM, the country’s biggest union.  AngloGold will boost mechanization, previously opposed by
some union members because of the threat to jobs, as the company
seeks to prevent the risk of increased deaths.  “We wouldn’t be going deeper with the expectation that
more people are going to die,” Cutifani said. “One of the
safety imperatives is to remove people from areas where
accidents are most likely to occur.”  AngloGold, which has about a quarter of its assets in South
Africa, is also seeking to reduce the size of its workforce to
lower production costs as labor unions demand wage increases at
several times the rate of inflation.  More Than Needed  During South Africa’s white rule, which ended in 1994,
companies took advantage of cheap black labor, meaning the
country’s mines use more workers. Underground seams are also
more labor-intensive than surface operations, with AngloGold
employing more than 63,000 staff, compared with the 11,900 at
 Barrick Gold Corp ., the world’s biggest producer.  “We probably have more people than we need but we’ve made
a commitment to try and size operations over time sensitively,”
Cutifani said. South Africa, the continent’s largest economy,
had an unemployment rate of 25.3 percent in the third quarter.  South African gold output peaked at more than 1 million
kilograms in 1970, the Johannesburg-based Chamber of Mines says.  Gold may rise above $1,500 an ounce, from about $1,390 now,
as global central banks print money to buoy their economies,
Cutifani said. “The most significant hard currency is gold. I
could easily see gold going beyond $1,500 an ounce,” he said.  Harmony Gold Mining Co., Africa’s third-largest producer,
doesn’t plan to join AngloGold in digging deeper than its 3.6
kilometer Kusasalethu mine. “I am sure that there is more ore
further down but at the moment we have no plans to go there,”
CEO  Graham Briggs  said in an interview yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  