-- Manufacturing Expands in U.S., China, Europe as Recovery Gains Traction
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2010-12-01T16:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/manufacturing-expands-in-u-s-china-europe-as-recovery-gains-traction.html
Manufacturing in the U.S., Europe and
China grew in November, a sign that the global recovery is
gaining traction as the year draws to a close.  Manufacturing in the U.S. expanded for a 16th straight
month in November, the Institute for Supply Management reported
today. U.K. manufacturing growth unexpectedly accelerated to the
fastest in 16 years in November, while China’s output grew at a
faster pace for a fourth month, separate reports showed.  Manufacturers such as Stuttgart, Germany-based  Daimler AG ,
Bath, England-based  Rotork Plc  and Midland, Michigan-based  Dow
Chemical Co.  remain at the forefront of the recovery as growing
demand abroad fuels  exports  and companies invest in  new
equipment . Asian demand for consumer goods has contributed to
higher global output, said  John Silvia , chief economist at Wells
Fargo Securities LLC in Charlotte, North Carolina.  “Manufacturing has led in part because of inventory
rebuilding and the need for consumer durables, especially in
Asia,” said Silvia, a former congressional economist. “There
is a global economic recovery in place. This should add
confidence to the sustainability of global recovery.”  The global economy will expand 4 to 5 percent this year,
International Monetary Fund Chief Economist  Olivier Blanchard 
said last month. The probability of the global economy
contracting in 2011 is about 2 percent and in the U.S. it is
about 10 to 15 percent, he said.  The U.S. economy grew at a 2.5 percent rate in the third
quarter, according to revised Commerce Department data Nov. 23,
compared with 1.7 percent in the second quarter. Employment in
the U.S. rose in October for the first time in five months, the
Labor Department reported Nov. 5.  Regaining Momentum  “The economy seems to be regaining some momentum,” said
 Russell Price , a senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc.
in Detroit. “Inventories are still in pretty good shape, so any
gains at the consumer level should translate into improving
activity at the manufacturing level.”  Risks to global growth remain, including the European debt
crisis and continued weakness in U.S. housing. Real-estate
prices in 20 U.S. cities rose in September at the slowest pace
in eight months, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index.  The housing concerns aren’t derailing manufacturers. The
ISM’s factory index was 56.6 in November, little changed from
the five-month high of 56.9 in October. The figure compared with
a median estimate of 56.5 in a  Bloomberg News survey  of 83
economists. Readings greater than 50 signal growth.  Global Gains  A gauge of U.K. manufacturing growth based on a survey of
companies by Markit Economics and the Chartered Institute of
Purchasing and Supply rose to 58 from 55.4 in October. The
median forecast of 24 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for 54.7. A measure above 50 also indicates expansion.  In Europe, manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in
four months in November, led by Germany, the region’s largest
economy. A gauge of manufacturing in the 16-nation euro area
rose to 55.3 from 54.6 the prior month, London-based Markit
Economics said today.  China’s  manufacturing  grew at a faster pace for a fourth
straight month in November. The Purchasing Managers’ Index rose
to 55.2 from 54.7, China’s logistics federation said on its
website today.  The Chinese picture of stronger manufacturing and climbing
prices was repeated across Asia in reports released today by
HSBC and Markit for India, South Korea and Taiwan.  ‘Going Gangbusters’  India needs to keep tightening monetary policy, HSBC
economist  Leif Eskesen  said, commenting on PMI data showing the
nation’s fastest manufacturing growth in six months. Taiwan had
its first expansion in four months and South Korea, too,
switched from a contraction.  Dow, the world’s second-biggest chemical company, said
yesterday that fourth-quarter sales are matching those of the
prior three months, led by demand for materials used in
electronics.  Electronics demand is “going gangbusters,” and commodity
plastics and chemical sales are still strong,  Bill Weideman ,
chief financial officer, said in an investor presentation.
“Overall demand is very solid.”  General Motors Co.  is among those companies boosting
production and hiring. The maker of the Chevrolet Volt gasoline-
electric car plans to add 1,000 engineers in Michigan to help
expand the automaker’s lineup of electric-drive vehicles. The
hiring will increase GM’s workforce of electric-vehicle
engineers by 50 percent to about 3,000, said  Rob Peterson , a
spokesman for the Detroit company.  “Globally, the manufacturing sector continues to lead in
most of these economies,”  Norbert Ore , chairman of the U.S. ISM
factory survey, said in a conference call from Atlanta. “It
apparently has the ability to continue for the foreseeable
future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  