-- Manufacturing in U.S. Probably Grew for 16th Month
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-12-01T11:21:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/manufacturing-in-u-s-probably-grew-in-november-as-economy-gained-traction.html
Manufacturing in the U.S. probably
expanded for a 16th consecutive month in November, a sign the
world’s largest economy is gaining traction as the year draws to
a close, economists said before reports today.  A reading of 56.5 is projected for the Institute for Supply
Management’s  factory index , little changed from the five-month
high of 56.9 in October, according to the median estimate of 82
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Readings greater than 50
signal growth. Other reports may show  construction spending  fell
and company payrolls increased.  Manufacturers such as Dow Chemical Co. remain at the
forefront of the expansion as growing demand abroad fuels
 exports  and companies invest in  new equipment . Holiday sales
gains indicate factories stand to benefit further from a pickup
in consumer spending that would allow the recovery to become
more broad-based.  “The economy seems to be regaining some momentum,” said
 Russell Price , a senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc.
in Detroit. “Inventories are still in pretty good shape, so any
gains at the consumer level should translate into improving
activity at the manufacturing level.”  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s report is due at 10 a.m. New
York time. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 54 to
58.1.  Manufacturing in Europe  In Europe, manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in
four months in November, led by Germany, the region’s largest
economy. A  gauge  of manufacturing in the 16-nation euro area
rose to 55.3 from 54.6 the prior month, London-based Markit
Economics said today.  China’s  manufacturing  grew at a faster pace for a fourth
straight month in November. The Purchasing Managers’ Index rose
to 55.2 from 54.7, China’s logistics federation said on its
website today.  While U.S. manufacturing grows, a slump in home sales
following the expiration of a buyer tax incentive is depressing
construction.  Spending  on all projects dropped 0.3 percent in
October, the third decline in four months, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed before the Commerce
Department’s figures at 10 a.m.  Another report today may show U.S. companies last month
added the most jobs since the recession began in December 2007.
Employment rose by 70,000 in November, ADP Employer Services
will report at 8:15 a.m., according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Obama and CEOs  As part of an effort to reach out to some of the nation’s
largest employers, President Barack Obama met with  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc.  Chief Executive Officer Mike Duke at the White House
on Nov. 29. The meeting is one of a series of sessions aimed at
soliciting the views of companies, with the goal of spurring the
recovery and adding jobs.  Dow Chemical Co. , the world’s second-biggest chemical
company, said yesterday that fourth-quarter sales are matching
those of the prior three months, led by demand for materials
used in electronics.  Electronics demand is “going gangbusters,” and commodity
plastics and chemical sales are still “strong,”  Bill Weideman ,
chief financial officer of the Midland, Michigan-based company,
said in an investor presentation broadcast on the Internet.
“Overall demand is very solid.”  GM Hiring  General Motors Co.  is among those companies boosting
production and hiring. The maker of the Chevrolet Volt gasoline-
electric car plans to add 1,000 engineers in Michigan to help
expand the automaker’s lineup of electric-drive vehicles. The
hiring will increase GM’s workforce of electric-vehicle
engineers by 50 percent to about 3,000, said Rob Peterson, a
spokesman for the Detroit company.  Shares of manufacturers have increased more this year than
the broader indexes. The Standard & Poor’s  Supercomposite 
Industrial Machinery Index has climbed 34 percent through
yesterday, while the  S&P 500  has gained 5.9 percent.  Most gauges of regional manufacturing improved last month,
including a Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia survey that
showed factories in the area  expanded  at the fastest pace this
year. The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said
yesterday that its  business barometer  rose last month to the
highest level since April.  Auto Sales  Automakers including Ford Motor Co. and GM are among
manufacturers seeing increased demand. Ford’s sales in October
rose 15 percent from a year earlier to 157,935, the Dearborn,
Michigan-based company said in a statement. Sales at GM climbed
3.5 percent to 183,759.  The world’s largest economy grew at a 2.5 percent annual
pace from July through September, more than previously
calculated, as Americans boosted their spending, the Commerce
Department said last week. Consumer purchases, which account for
70 percent of the economy, rose at a 2.8 percent rate, the most
since the final three months of 2006.  Holiday sales are stronger as well. The average shopper in
the U.S. spent $365.34, or 6.4 percent more, over Thanksgiving
weekend than last year as more people picked up jewelry and
toys, the National Retail Federation said Nov. 28. Retailers
lured people into stores with promotions like  Wal-Mart Stores 
Inc.’s $5 Barbie and J.C. Penney Co.’s $10 diamond-accented
earrings.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  