-- Apple IPhone Most Wanted U.S. Smartphone, Nielsen Says
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-12-01T21:19:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/apple-iphone-is-most-desired-phone-in-u-s-beating-android-nielsen-says.html
Apple Inc. ’s iPhone is the most
desired device among users shopping for smartphones, beating the
BlackBerry and Google Inc.’s Android as consumers prepare for
the holiday season, according to Nielsen Co.  In a survey of U.S. shoppers looking for a smartphone, 30
percent said they wanted to buy an iPhone, according to a
 Nielsen  survey from August through October. Phones running
Google’s Android software placed second with 28 percent.  Apple is battling increasing competition from Android,
which became the most popular smartphone operating system among
new buyers in the U.S. this year. To expand the iPhone’s
availability, Apple plans to start selling the device at  Verizon
Wireless , the biggest U.S. wireless provider, next year, people
familiar with the companies’ plans have said. AT&T Inc. is
currently the only U.S. carrier offering the iPhone.  Android and Cupertino, California-based Apple are
increasingly dominating the U.S. smartphone landscape, winning
market share from other mobile-phone makers. About 13 percent of
shoppers said they wanted a BlackBerry, from  Research In Motion
Ltd. , and 6 percent were looking for a Microsoft Corp. Windows
Mobile phones.  Almost a third of U.S. mobile subscribers had a smartphone
at the end of October, Nielsen said. Of those, 27.9 percent
owned an iPhone, 27.4 percent had a BlackBerry and 22.7 percent
had an Android device.  Apple rose $5.25 to $316.40 in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading 
at 4 p.m. New York time. The shares have climbed 50 percent this
year. Google, based in Mountain View, California, rose $8.64 to
$564.35 and RIM fell 1 cent to $61.82.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  