-- Argentina, China Resolve Soyoil Rift, China May Buy Corn, Dominguez Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-01T13:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/argentina-china-resolve-soyoil-rift-china-may-buy-corn-dominguez-says.html
Argentina’s Minister of Agriculture
 Julian Dominguez  said China has normalized soybean oil trade
between the nations, and the first batch is expected to arrive
in December or January.  The two countries are “relieved” the soybean oil dispute
is resolved, he said at a press briefing in Beijing today.  China halted shipments from Argentina, the world’s largest
exporter, in April because of trade disputes ranging from
textiles to kitchen products. The Asian nation bought 250,000
metric tons of soybean oil from South America in October after
profits from importing the commodity rose, industry information
website Grain.gov.cn said by e-mail on Oct. 27.  Those purchases were for delivery in March to May, with the
place of origin Argentina, and Brazil as an option, said the
site, which is owned by the China National Grain & Oils
Information Center. The new orders lifted total purchases that
month to 400,000 tons, it said.  Argentina, the world’s second-largest  corn  shipper, expects
China to agree to buy the grain in the first half of next year,
Dominguez said today.  China, the second-biggest consumer, has made no commitment
yet to import, he said. Argentina may have 20 million tons of
surplus corn next year, he said.  Corn, Beef  Argentina is in talks with China on a so-called sanitary
protocol that would allow it to export the grain to the Asian
nation, the South American nation’s Ministry of Agriculture said
Nov. 12. It expects to speed up discussions with China next year
to become an alternative supplier, the ministry said, without
providing further details. China’s Minister of Agriculture  Han Changfu  held talks with Dominguez last month in Argentina.  China has bought about 1.5 million tons of the grain from
the U.S. this year, the most since about 1995, as the government
sought to cool local prices that surged about 27 percent in the
year to the start of November, when the government began a
crackdown on inflation. Prices of corn in Chicago surged about
53 percent in that period partly on expectation China needed to
boost imports to meet demand.  The Asian nation also signed protocols yesterday with
Argentina on conditions for importing deboned beef, barley and
dairy products from the Latin American nation, the state-owned
newspaper China Quarantine News reported on its website today.  The agreements were inked between  Zhi Shuping , director of
the General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection
and Quarantine, and  Dominguez , according to the newspaper.  The media office of the State Administration of Grain in
Beijing couldn’t be reached for comment outside office hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Bi  in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Kohn at 
 tkohn@bloomberg.net  