-- At Summit, Clinton Calls for Increased OSCE Involvement in Afghanistan
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-12-01T10:46:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/at-summit-clinton-calls-for-increased-osce-involvement-in-afghanistan.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
called on the Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe to play a greater role in Afghanistan, describing
instability in the nation as “dangerous” to Central Asia and
the 56-nation group as a whole.  Some 40 OSCE states contribute to the U.S.-led coalition in
Afghanistan, “but the OSCE itself should play a greater role”
to improve border security, counter illicit trafficking, boost
legitimate trade, and promote economic development, Clinton said
at a meeting in Astana, Kazakhstan. “Insecurity anywhere in the
OSCE region is a challenge for all of us.”  Clinton delivered her remarks at the first OSCE summit in
11 years, attended by heads of government and foreign ministers,
many of whom were mentioned in State Department cables released
this week by WikiLeaks.org. This is her first stop on a three-
nation tour of Central Asia, after which she will attend a
security conference in the Persian Gulf.  Clinton laid out three priorities for the Vienna-based
OSCE, including greater involvement in Afghanistan. The
organization should also do more to respond to crises within
member states, Clinton said.  “It is encouraging that Russia also recognizes the need to
improve on our existing capacity,” Clinton said. “And we are
working to find a framework that will allow for timely,
impartial OSCE reporting during emergencies like those we have
seen in Georgia and Kyrgyzstan.”  Russia routed Georgian forces in a five-day war over the
breakaway region of South Ossetia in August 2008. Ethnic
violence in Kyrgyzstan left at least 251 people dead and forced
400,000 people to flee their homes in June, according to
government estimates.  Georgian Sovereignty  The OSCE should work on conflict prevention, Clinton said,
beginning with Georgia, “whose sovereignty and territorial
integrity the United States strongly supports.”  Clinton singled out Russia in several comments, indicating
that the U.S. opposes some of Russia’s positions.  Russia has made proposals that would weaken the human
rights dimension of the OSCE’s mission, and it refused to allow
the OSCE to remain in Georgia unless it treats South Ossetia as
a stand-alone entity, Clinton said.  The OSCE closed its 200-strong mission in Georgia at the
end of 2008 as Russia refused to extend its mandate after the
war. While Russia recognized South Ossetia and Abkhazia, another
Georgian region, as independent countries after the conflict,
Georgia still claims sovereignty over the territories.  OSCE in Georgia  “It is regrettable that a participating state has proposed
to host a mission, and the OSCE has not been allowed to
respond,” Clinton said. “We here at this table must let this
organization do its job and restore a meaningful OSCE presence
to Georgia.”  Clinton called on “all parties to fully respect and
implement the August and September 2008 cease-fire
arrangements” between Russia and Georgia.  While the cease-fire agreement required forces to withdraw
to pre-conflict positions, Russian troops remain in Abkhazia and
South Ossetia. Russia says the forces are based in the regions
under treaties between Russia, Abkhazia and South Ossetia “in
full compliance with the norms of international law.”  Clinton also called on the leaders gathered in Astana to
renew the OSCE’s commitment to the idea that democracy, human
rights, and fundamental freedoms for individuals creates more
stable and secure states.  Those principles “face serious challenges,” Clinton said.
“Regional crises and transnational dangers threaten our people.
Democracies are under pressure, and protracted conflicts remain
dangerously unresolved.”  For that reason, she said she was calling for “a forward-
looking framework for action that translates Helsinki principles
into concrete steps to advance security in all its dimensions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  