-- Tata Motors' Nano Sales Plunge in November as Customers Lack Loan Options
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2010-12-01T14:41:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/tata-motors-nano-model-sales-plunge-85-as-customers-lack-acces-to-loans.html
Tata Motors Ltd. ’s sales of Nano
plunged 85 percent in November to 509 units, the lowest since
the car’s debut last year, as customers faced difficulty in
accessing loans to purchase the world’s cheapest car.  Tata Motors is hiring more sales people at dealerships and
working with banks to help buyers get loans, the automaker said
in an e-mail response to Bloomberg News today.  Chief Executive Officer  Carl-Peter Forster  said last month
that that a lack of financing options available to buyers was
causing a slump in Nano sales. Banks are reluctant to lend to
many low-income customers on concern that they may default,
while instances of some Nanos catching fire may have also
deterred buyers, said  Mahantesh Sabarad , a Mumbai-based analyst
with Fortune Equity Brokers (India) Ltd.  “The product has had a difficult time in terms of its
perception ever since those fire incidents came in,” Sabarad
said. “A lot of people bought the car in the initial sales
period for its novelty factor and didn’t go for loans.”  The automaker, also the owner of Jaguar Land Rover,
increased the price of the Nano by 9,000 rupees ($198) in
October, after raising as much as 4 percent in July. Sales of
the car had begun at prices ranging from 123,360 rupees to
172,360 rupees in New Delhi.  “The profile of such customers who are desirous of the
Tata Nano is that of a two-wheeler purchaser or those who do not
own any personal mobility at all,” Ashmita Pillay, a corporate
communications manager at Tata Motors, wrote in the e-mail.
“Many of them do not know driving.”  Record Every Month  Demand for the  Nano  has declined since July’s dispatch of
9,000 cars while car sales in India, Asia’s second-fastest
growing major economy, rose to a record every month since then
through October.  Tata Motors  sold more than 70,000 Nanos since deliveries
began in July last year. The company selected the first 100,000
customers through a lottery from the 206,703 orders it got in
the initial sales period in April the same year.  Total sales at Tata, also India’s biggest truckmaker, rose
1 percent to 54,622 vehicles in November, the company said in a
statement today.  Tata Motors  rose  4.2 percent to 1,286.75 rupees at the 3:30
p.m. close of trading in Mumbai today. The benchmark Sensitive
Index of the Bombay Stock Exchange gained 1.7 percent.  Additional Protection  The company said last month it would retrofit Nano cars
with additional protection in the exhaust and electrical systems
after some of them caught fire earlier this year. Investigations
concluded that the reasons for the fire were ‘specific’ to the
cars involved in the incident, Tata said.  The automaker opened a new factory for the 624-CC Nano in
the western Indian state of Gujarat in June. The plant with a
capacity to build 250,000 cars a year is fully operational, Tata
Motors said last month.  Tata Motors currently sells the car in 12 Indian states as
it worked through the initial orders and ramped up production.
The company had to abandon a near-complete factory in West
Bengal in 2008 because of farmers’ protests over land
acquisition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  