-- Tate Modern Got Donation From Oman’s Sultanate, Serota Reveals
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2010-12-01T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/tate-modern-got-donation-from-oman-s-sultanate-director-serota-reveals.html
Tate Modern , the London museum which
is seeking to raise funds for a 215 million pound ($333 million)
new wing, has received a donation from the Sultanate of Oman.  “It was quite a modest contribution, of a few million,”
 Nicholas Serota , Tate director, said in an interview yesterday.
He said the gift was part of a total already announced by Tate,
amounting to about half of the cost. Asked if Oman planned to
give more, Serota wouldn’t comment, saying it was too soon to
detail any new funding.  Tate said last week it was sending six masterpieces to
Muscat for exhibition at the Sayyid Faisal bin Ali Museum
through Jan. 25, 2011. The loans -- which include works by
J.M.W. Turner, John Constable,  Thomas Gainsborough  and George
Stubbs -- were made as  Queen Elizabeth II  traveled to Oman to
meet its ruler,  Sultan Qaboos .  “The little exhibition we made was in recognition of the
sultan’s accession to the throne 40 years ago: The queen was
making a visit to recognize the same fact,” said Serota, who
was in Oman himself on Nov. 26, showing the works to the British
monarch and the sultan.  Serota spoke in an interview yesterday after a press
briefing at Tate Britain, the sister museum across the river
from Tate Modern, which is planning its own redesign.  Newest Donors  Serota said in September that his team had raised “roughly
half” the cost of redeveloping Tate Modern, a converted power
station opened in 2000. He would not name the newest donors, and
said he would announce its inaugural program in the spring of
2011. He said “people with money” were more willing to talk to
him than they had been last year.  The September 2008 failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
and the global recession have made it tough to raise funds for
capital projects.  Tate aims to open the new wing in time for the  2012 London
Olympic  Games. An early glass design by Herzog & de Meuron --
architects of the original Tate Modern -- was discarded and
replaced by a brick polygon that will sit beside the existing
building.  Of the money already raised for the new wing, 50 million
pounds are coming from the U.K. government.  To contact the writer on this story:
 Farah Nayeri  in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 