-- Australia May Help Smaller Bank Firms Expand, Boost Competition, Age Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2010-12-01T22:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/australia-may-help-smaller-bank-firms-expand-boost-competition-age-says.html
Australia may revive part of a
government guarantee on funding for smaller lenders to help spur
competition in the nation’s banking industry, The Age newspaper
reported, without saying where it got the information.  Credit unions, building societies and regional banks may be
given access to the wholesale guarantee as part of Treasurer
 Wayne Swan ’s package of banking reforms to be released this
month, the newspaper said. Other measures may include further
support for the nation’s securitization market and helping
credit union customers to use Australia Post branches for
deposits and withdrawals, The Age wrote.  Bank of Queensland Ltd., Bananacoast Community Credit Union
Ltd. and Members Equity Bank Pty Ltd. were among regional or
smaller lenders that raised money under the original wholesale
 guarantee , which was introduced to ease funding pressures after
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008
sparked a global credit freeze. The program was closed to new
issuance on March 31 after Swan said banks no longer needed the
backing to attract wholesale funding.  Adam Collins, spokesman for Swan, said by phone today that
the government plans to release details of the reforms this
month and won’t speculate on the contents before then.  Australia guaranteed A$144.9 billion ($140.2 billion) of
debt under the guarantee arrangement as of October, according to
information on a federal  website .  Lenders have paid A$2.2 billion in fees in return for the
backing, which allows them to sell bonds using Australia’s AAA
sovereign rating, the website states. Banks rated AA- and above
 pay  70 basis points per year on their guaranteed debt to the
government, while lenders rated A+ to A- pay 100 basis points
and those with lower ratings, or no rating, pay 150 basis points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 