-- Australian Shift to Thrift May Give Stevens Cause to Pause: Chart of Day
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   D a n i e l   P e t r i e
-- 2010-12-01T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/australians-thrift-broadens-rba-rate-pause-scope-chart-of-day.html
Higher savings in Australia may bring
consumers the added return of a central bank more willing to
delay interest-rate increases, said economist  Stephen Roberts  at
Nomura Australia Ltd.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows how the savings rate tracked
changes in borrowing costs before and after the financial crisis.
Yesterday’s government report on gross domestic product showed
savings as a share of disposable income climbed to 10.2 percent
in the third quarter from 8.9 percent three months earlier.  “This suggests the household sector has been a lot more
cautious than we had previously believed and may give the RBA
more of a window to pause rates,” Roberts said. The central
bank “will still want to be pre-emptive, but it gives them a
chance to stagger the next rate hike or two,” he said.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  boosted the overnight cash rate
target a month ago by a quarter percentage point as mining
investment, job growth and overseas demand propel the economy.
He has lifted the benchmark lending rate seven times since
October 2009, to 4.75 percent, in the steepest round of
increases by a member of the Group of 20.  Stevens highlighted in a speech this week in Melbourne that
the savings rate has climbed from minus 1 percent five years ago
and said “more cautious behavior by households” isn’t
“unwelcome.”  Australia’s savings rate has averaged about 3 percent in
the past decade, and its renewed increase at a time of economic
expansion means less cash adding to price pressures. The RBA
governor is trying to prevent inflation from accelerating during
the country’s biggest mining-investment boom in more than a
century. “With the stimulus from the terms of trade and the
likely investment build-up, the economy can cope with more
saving by households for a time,” he said in his speech.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at   mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Petrie  in Sydney at 
 dpetrie5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  