-- Australia's Economy Expanded 0.2% in Third Quarter, Less Than Estimates
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-12-01T02:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/australia-s-economy-expanded-0-2-in-third-quarter-less-than-estimates.html
Australia’s economy expanded at half
the pace economists  forecast  in the third quarter as
construction fell and a stronger currency contributed to the
biggest drop in exports in more than seven years.  Gross domestic product advanced 0.2 percent from the second
quarter, the worst performance since a contraction at the end of
2008, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 21 economists was for a 0.4
percent gain from the previous period, when GDP rose 1.1 percent.  Australia’s dollar slid to a 10-week low against its U.S.
counterpart after today’s release, paring an advance for the
year that’s eroded export competitiveness. The slowing indicates
little immediate need for the  Reserve Bank of Australia to add
to the seven rate increases since October 2009 that have hurt
business confidence and reined in an expansion in housing.  “Consumers and business are holding onto the cash until
the economic recovery gains traction,” said Savanth Sebastian,
an economist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia in Sydney. “The
double-digit household savings ratio and weak private-sector
investment outside the mining sector adds weight to this.”  The Australian dollar slid as low as 95.37 U.S. cents, the
lowest level since Sept. 24, and fetched 95.57 U.S. cents as of
1 p.m. in Sydney. The S&P/ASX 200 index of stocks retreated 0.3
percent to 4,572.90.  Exports, Construction  Exports fell 2.4 percent in the quarter, the steepest drop
since the second quarter of 2003, subtracting 0.6 percentage
point from GDP, today’s report showed. Construction declined 0.9
percent from the prior quarter.  Household spending increased 0.6 percent, adding 0.3
percentage point to GDP growth, the report showed.  The economy grew 2.7 percent from a year earlier, the
report showed. Economists had forecast a 3.4 percent expansion.  A private report earlier today showed Australian
manufacturing contracted in November for a third month as the
nation’s surging currency eroded demand for exports and higher
borrowing costs curbed consumer spending.  The manufacturing index fell to 47.6 from 49.4 in October,
the Australian Industry Group and PricewaterhouseCoopers said in
a survey released in Canberra today. A number below 50 indicates
contraction. Capacity utilization fell to 74.6 percent from a 2
½-year high of 77.4 percent, the report showed.  Bank Lending  The RBA said in a release yesterday that loans provided by
Australian banks and finance companies rose 0.1 percent in
October from the previous month, when they were flat. Lending to
companies fell 0.8 percent from September and 3.2 percent from a
year earlier, the central bank said.  Australian business confidence fell for a second month in
October as conditions deteriorated to the weakest in more than a
year on declining profitability for retail and construction
companies, according to a private monthly survey released Nov. 9.  Growth may accelerate after the nation’s employers  added
106,200 jobs  from July through September, the biggest increase
in four years. That helped strengthen the local currency 15
percent against the U.S. dollar in the third quarter, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Exports account for about one-
fifth of the country’s GDP.  Exports ‘Softened’  “Exports growth softened but followed an exceptionally
strong performance in the second quarter,”  Matthew Circosta , an
economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney, said before the report.
“Shipments of coal and iron ore to China slowed as the Chinese
scaled back steel production.”  In testimony last week to lawmakers in Canberra, Governor
 Glenn Stevens  reiterated the central bank’s outlook for growth
of about 3.5 percent in 2011 and 2012. He signaled interest-rate
policy was appropriate for now, adding “it would take only
pretty moderate growth in the second half of the year to achieve
that forecast for 2010.”  RBA policy makers expect annual growth to accelerate,
boosted by projects such as BG Group Plc’s $15 billion liquefied
natural gas venture in Queensland, generating 5,000 construction
jobs and potentially stoking inflation pressures.  BG, Chevron Corp., Royal Dutch Shell Plc and ConocoPhillips
are among energy companies investing about A$200 billion in
proposed LNG projects in Australia.  “On all the indications available, we are living through an
event that occurs maybe once or twice in a century,” Stevens
said in an address to a Committee for Economic Development of
Australia event in Melbourne two days ago. “We obviously have
to be wary of overheating.”  A report yesterday showed Australian home-building
approvals snapped a six-month decline in October. The number of
permits granted to build or renovate houses and apartments
surged 9.3 percent from September, the Bureau of Statistics said
in Sydney. That exceeded the median forecast for a 1.4 percent
gain in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  