-- Hawaiian Air May Add Asian Destination, Chief Executive Dunkerley Says
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 2010-12-01T17:31:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/hawaiian-air-may-add-asian-destination-chief-executive-dunkerley-says.html
Hawaiian Airlines , which began its
first flights to Japan last month, may add another Asian
destination next year, possibly in the same country, Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Dunkerley  said in an interview.  The destination would be in addition to service the
Honolulu-based carrier plans to begin Jan. 12 to Incheon, South
Korea, Dunkerley said today. Hawaiian’s options for next year
also include adding flights to South Korea, he said.  “Expansion into Asia is a strategy,” Dunkerley said. “We
clearly want to, and intend to, build a sort of brand image,
name recognition, in these markets. That becomes progressively
easier the more service that you put into these markets.”  U.S. carriers have been adding flights to Asia, lured by
expanded airport access and travel growth. Asia-Pacific traffic
grew 10.4 percent through September from last year, outpacing a
6.7 percent gain in North America and 4.4 percent in Europe,
according to the  International Air Transport Association .  Hawaiian Holdings Inc. ’s Hawaiian,  Delta Air Lines Inc.  and
 AMR Corp. ’s American Airlines won permission to fly to Tokyo’s
Haneda airport this year under an “Open Skies” agreement
between the U.S. and Japan. Haneda is 10 miles south of Tokyo,
while the city’s main airport, Narita, is about 44 miles away.  Haneda flights connecting Honolulu so far are “working out
better than we anticipated,” Dunkerley said. The flights are
more than 80 percent full, and Haneda enjoys a fare premium over
Narita, though Dunkerley said he was unable to be specific.  “Assuming everything continues to go as well as it looks
now, I think you can expect to see one to two new Asia
destinations per year,” he said. “That’s where the growth is.
That’s where the people who are likely to travel live.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  