-- Tax-Exempts Suffer Biggest Monthly Drop This Year: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l   a n d   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 2010-12-01T17:13:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/tax-exempt-bonds-suffer-worst-month-of-2010-as-yields-climb-muni-credit.html
Tax-exempt bonds had their worst
monthly returns of 2010 as rising U.S. Treasury yields and
record state and local fixed-rate debt sales sparked withdrawals
from mutual funds investing in municipal securities.  Tax-free holdings lost 2.29 percent in November, the third
consecutive monthly drop and the longest slide since 2004,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Municipal Master
Index, which accounts for price changes and interest income.
Mutual funds investors pulled $5.4 billion of muni assets within
two weeks last month, according to  Lipper FMI , a research firm.  States and municipalities borrowed about  $55.6 billion  last
month, the most since at least 2003, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. About $53.7 billion was sold in October, the
second-most on record. The volume jump fed into price declines
as mutual funds had to sell holdings to cover investor
redemptions, said  Guy LeBas , chief fixed-income strategist at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  “First it’s a little bit of supply shock,” LeBas said.
“Then that coincides with withdrawals from funds, which
triggers forced selling, which triggers another round of
declines.”  Mutual-fund investors unloaded $2.27 billion of municipal
assets in the week ended Nov. 24, according to Lipper. It
followed a week in which investors withdrew more than $3.1
billion, the most since January 1992, according to  Tom Roseen ,
senior analyst at Lipper in Denver.  Yields Rise  Yields on top-rated tax-exempts due in 10 years climbed
about 55 basis points, or 0.55 percentage point, from Nov. 8 to
Nov. 18, according to a  Bloomberg Valuation index . Yields rose
to 2.8 percent yesterday from 2.53 percent on Oct. 29.
November’s total return is the worst since a 2.51 percent loss
in October 2009, Merrill’s index shows.  Yields on  10-year Treasuries  surged from a monthly low of
2.46 percent on Nov. 4 to a high of 2.96 percent on Nov. 16,
Bloomberg data show. Treasuries generated losses for a second
straight month, losing 0.68 percent.  Both Build America and comparably rated corporate bonds of
a similar maturity recorded losses for a third straight month.
The Build Americas returned minus 2.15 percent while the company
debt had minus 0.88 percent, according to Merrill indexes. Build
America yields rose about 21 basis points last month to  6.07
percent  yesterday, according to a Wells Fargo index.  Chicago Prices  Chicago, the nation’s third most-populous city, is selling
more than $800 million this week. Chicago was offering 30-year
Build Americas to investors yesterday at a yield spread of 320
basis points above  30-year Treasuries , according to a person
with direct knowledge of the deal. That would be a yield of
about 7.33 percent, based on Treasury rates yesterday.  The issue, which prices today, had been postponed last
month as the city waited for “a more opportune time to access
the lowest possible rates,” Pete Scales, a spokesman for Chief
Financial Officer  Gene Saffold , said at the time.  Moving the deal may not have benefited the city, which will
likely pay more in spread, said  Richard Saperstein , who helps
oversee $4 billion of municipal bonds for the Treasury Partners
Practice at  HighTower Advisors LLC  in Chicago.  “They’ve encountered this year-end problem where we have a
large supply of BABs and a steepening of the yield curve and
it’s having a dual impact,” he said.  Extra Yield  The extra yield investors demand for Build Americas above
30-year Treasuries was  195 basis points  yesterday, down 1 basis
point from a three-month high on Nov. 29, according to the Wells
Fargo index. The daily average for the week of Nov. 8, when the
Chicago deal was originally slated, was about 184 basis points,
Bloomberg data show.  Yields on 30-year Treasuries have declined in the last two
weeks to  4.11 percent yesterday  from 4.29 percent on Nov. 17,
Bloomberg data show.  Chicago’s Scales wasn’t available for comment yesterday.  Munis have returned 4.38 percent since the start of the
year, with Treasuries bringing in 7.85 percent, Merrill indexes
show. Build Americas have gained 10.2 percent, with the
corporate index providing 12.8 percent.  The four asset classes have all rallied in the last week,
and that’s likely to continue as the European debt crisis and
tensions in Asia lead investors to seek less risky assets, LeBas
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandra Harris  in New York at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  