-- Fed Withholds Collateral Data for $885 Billion in Financial-Crisis Loans
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2010-12-02T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/taxpayer-risk-impossible-to-know-for-some-fed-financial-crisis-programs.html
The Federal Reserve withheld details
on individual securities pledged as collateral by recipients of
$885 billion in central bank loans, denying taxpayers a measure
of the risks they faced from its emergency aid.  The central bank yesterday released  data  on 21,000
transactions from $3.3 trillion in emergency lending to stem the
financial crisis. July’s Dodd-Frank law required the Fed to
disclose the names of borrowers, the size and interest rates of
loans, and “information identifying the types and amounts of
collateral pledged or assets transferred.”  For three of the Fed’s six emergency facilities, the
central bank released information on groups of collateral it
accepted by asset type and rating, without specifying individual
securities. Among them was the Primary Dealer Credit Facility,
created in March 2008 to provide loans to brokers as Bear
Stearns Cos. collapsed.  “This is a half-step,” said former Atlanta Fed research
director  Robert Eisenbeis , chief monetary economist at
Cumberland Advisors Inc. in Sarasota, Florida. “If you were
going to audit the facilities, then would this enable you to do
an audit? The answer is ‘No,’ you would have to go in and look
at the individual amounts of collateral and how it was broken
down to do that. And that is the spirit of what the requirements
were in Dodd-Frank.”  Fed spokeswoman  Susan Stawick  in Washington declined to
comment.  Public Disclosure  The public disclosure of the lending data should have been
prevented because it could spur runs on the banks listed, said
 Darrell Duffie , a finance professor at Stanford University.  “That’s a very destructive process,” he said. Still, with
the data released, “if you’re justified in getting the
information, then you’re justified to get enough information to
judge the risk the Fed took,” he said.  Under its definition of the “ratings unavailable”
category for collateral posted under the PDCF, the Fed said that
“in some limited cases, ineligible collateral was pledged, but
it was reviewed with the clearing banks for exclusion from
future pledges.” The central bank didn’t elaborate.  The secrecy surrounding Fed bailouts led lawmakers to
demand disclosure after the central bank approved aid dwarfing
the federal government’s $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief
Program.  Collateral Pledged  The loans extended to primary dealers under the PDCF by the
New York Fed were recourse loans, meaning the potential
liability of borrowers who defaulted was greater than the value
of the collateral pledged, according to the Fed. Primary dealers
are the firms authorized to deal in government securities
directly with the Fed. At its peak, borrowing under the facility
came to about $156 billion.  It is “specifically impossible” to know how much risk
taxpayers were taking by looking at pools of collateral grouped
by asset class and rating, said  Sylvain Raynes , a principal at
R&R Consulting in New York and co-author of “Elements of
Structured Finance,” published in May by Oxford University
Press.  “I need to know the individual composition because a $2
billion pool can be one asset of $2 billion, which would be very
risky, or 2,000 assets of $1 million each, and that’s not risky
at all,” Raynes said. “The spirit of Dodd-Frank was not
respected, and they used the vagueness in the wording of the law
to weasel out of fulfilling their duty to the American people.”  Corporate Debt  Over the life of the PDCF, $1.5 trillion of collateral with
“ratings unavailable” was pledged, according to the  Fed data .
That’s larger than the $1.39 trillion of municipal debt pledged.
Corporate debt posted totaled $2.35 trillion.  A total of $8.95 trillion was lent over the life of the
PDCF, backed by $9.67 trillion in collateral.  The Fed released details identifying thousands of
transactions including bonds bought under its mortgage purchase
program and asset-backed commercial paper pledged under its
Asset-Backed Commercial Paper Money-Market Mutual Fund Liquidity
Facility.  The central bank also omitted details on individual
securities pledged as collateral under its Term Auction Facility
and its Term Securities Lending Facility, which was announced on
March 11, 2008, as the first program under which the Fed planned
to lend to non-bank dealers.  The Fed authorized its New York branch to establish the
PDCF on March 16, 2008, the same day it made commitments to
convince  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  to buy troubled dealer Bear
Stearns. A run on New York-based Bear Stearns was seen as
threatening the stability of global markets, and the PDCF for
the first time allowed dealers to borrow on a collateralized
basis from the New York Fed.  Lehman Collapse  In September that year, as  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. 
was on the brink of filing for bankruptcy, the PDCF was expanded
to accept all types of collateral pledged in tri-party repo
deals, including high-yield, high-risk securities and equities.
The previous program only accepted investment-grade debt
securities.  The first peak of PDCF lending occurred in April 2008 at
nearly $40 billion, according to the New York Fed. As financial
markets improved, banks reduced their balance-sheet risk and the
PDCF pricing became less attractive, usage of the facility fell
off and stopped in mid-July that year.  Borrowing then leapt to over $140 billion in mid-September
2008 from no activity the previous week, according to the New
York Fed. The program ended Feb. 1 this year.  Under the TSLF, dealers could swap investment-grade
securities, including mortgage bonds, for U.S. Treasuries for 28
days. Usage peaked at $235.5 billion in October 2008, and the
program was also closed in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  