-- BA's Paris Unit Says Business Travel, Beyonce to Spur Fleet Plan
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-12-01T11:15:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/ba-s-paris-unit-says-business-travel-beyonce-to-spur-fleet-plan.html
British Airways Plc ’s OpenSkies
luxury-travel unit may boost its four-plane fleet to 20 aircraft
in coming years as business travel rebounds and it rents jets to
VIP clients such as singer Beyonce and soccer club Real Madrid.  Paris-based  OpenSkies  is filling 80 percent of seats on its
main New York route and will boost occupancy in 2011 by selling
tickets through BA’s American Airlines ally and Iberia Lineas
Aereas de Espana SA of Spain, with which the U.K. company is
merging, Chief Executive Officer  Dale Moss  said in an interview.  “I don’t want to scare any competition when I say 15 or 20
aircraft, but if we got that it would be great,” Moss said. “The
market will snap back to its former state at some point, though
it has yet to do that, so we’re not in a hurry. What’s most
interesting now are the opportunities with American and Iberia.”  OpenSkies, which began flying in June 2008, three months
before the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., offers
business berths and flat beds in 84-seat  Boeing Co. 757s  served
by four cabin attendants. Moss says the carrier has a 29 percent
share of the Paris-New York premium-travel market and a load
factor in the “high 50s to mid 60s” on its second route to
Washington, with a third service likely to begin in 2011.  ‘Limited Damage’  “I’m quite well disposed to the model, it has potential,”
said  Doug McNeill , an analyst at Charles Stanley Securities in
London. “It makes sense for British Airways to place small bets
on this. If it goes wrong, the damage will be limited.”  British Airways was trading up 1.6 percent at 259.7 pence
as of 11:03 a.m. in London, snapping three days of declines.  Moss said any additional planes will also be 757s, the
world’s longest single-aisle model, of which Boeing sold more
than 1,000 examples, the last in 2005. 757s recently retired by
British Airways and sold for freighter conversion had a
different layout and weren’t suited to OpenSkies, he said.  “We like another version of this aircraft, with a different
door configuration and a different galley configuration that
enables us to get more seats on this airplane,” he said.  Collaboration with American Airlines, the No. 3 U.S.
carrier, and Madrid-based Iberia is likely to be in the form of
code-sharing, which would allow OpenSkies to sell seats via the
larger companies’ sales networks as if they were its own.  “Codeshares will enable us to raise awareness in the
marketplace and engage in more segments,” Moss said on Nov. 29
after addressing the Future of Air Transport debate in London.  Geneva, Dubai  OpenSkies, which operates out of  Paris’s Orly airport , has
carried 200,000 people since it began flying, 80,000 of them in
the past 12 months. Numbers will grow once the market returns to
“normalized” levels, which is unlikely before 2012, he said.  The carrier said in June it was looking at adding a third
route and studying the feasibility of flights serving Geneva,
Milan, Dubai, Montreal and Boston. That’s “more likely now to
be next year,” with another north Atlantic service favored,
though Dubai hasn’t been ruled out, Moss said in the interview.  The premium-only layout used by OpenSkies has also prompted
top-end customers to block book aircraft, with the charter
market accounting for 10 percent of sales, the executive said.  VIP Passengers  Clients have included Grammy-award winning singer  Beyonce Knowles , Spanish soccer team Real Madrid and AC Milan of Italy,
and French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde , who hired a plane
to take a trade delegation to China.  Moss said OpenSkies has settled on a double-daily service
to New York as the optimum given current levels of demand and is
cautious about flooding the route after scrapping flights from
the U.S. city to Amsterdam last year as global travel slumped.  “We did have three services a day to New York but the
market had softened and we found the sweet spot was two,” he
said. “Do I envisage a greater frequency there? Sure, when the
market is right.”  McNeill of Charles Stanley said OpenSkies and a business-
only British Airways service from London City airport to New
York have benefited from the examples of premium-class trans-
Atlantic trailblazers MAXJet Airlines Inc., Eos Airlines and
Silverjet Plc, which failed between December 2007 and May 2008.  “It’s not unusual for the pioneers of a concept to
struggle to make money only for the second generation to
commercialize it successfully,” said the analyst, who rates
British Airways stock “hold” following its 37 percent gain so
far this year. “That is what BA is doing with OpenSkies and its
London City operation.”  Regular seats on OpenSkies flights are as much as 50
percent less costly than business seats on a regular airline,
with flat-bed berths 20 percent cheaper, according to Moss.  The chief competitor to OpenSkies is Air France, which said
yesterday it will introduce Airbus SAS’s A380 on its Washington
route next June. It already flies the superjumbo to New York.  Air France-KLM Group spokesman  Nicolas Petteau  in Paris
declined to comment on the BA unit’s expansion plans yesterday. 