-- BofA’s ‘Sloppy’ Prime Mortgages Add to Pressure for Buybacks
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-12-01T05:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/bank-of-america-s-sloppy-prime-mortgages-increase-pressure-for-buybacks.html
Bank of America Corp. , battling
demands for almost $13 billion of refunds from mortgage
investors, reported that the fastest-growing group of claims
involves loans to people with the best credit scores.  Claims for refunds on prime mortgages surged 150 percent to
$3.6 billion in the first nine months of 2010, the Charlotte,
North Carolina-based bank said last month in its quarterly
report. Claims on subprime loans, made to borrowers deemed more
likely to default, were little changed at $579 million. Mortgage
investors can demand refunds from a bank if a loan was based on
faulty data about the home or borrower.  Overdue  prime mortgages set a record this year, opening
more loans to scrutiny for defects that could entitle investors
to a buyback. The Congressional Oversight Panel  said  last month
that too many repurchases could rattle the financial system, and
Bank of America’s stock dropped 27 percent this year through
yesterday, partly on concern that $4.4 billion of reserves
stockpiled to cover such costs won’t be enough.  “It was just a very sloppy process” that wasn’t confined
to subprime loans, said  David Havens , an analyst at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in New York. “Overlooking bits and pieces of the
underwriting process can come back to hurt you, because
investors sold a faulty bill of goods want to recover losses.”  The ultimate cost to the industry could range from
$54 billion to $106 billion, according to a Nov. 29 report from
 Paul Miller , the banking analyst at FBR Capital Markets.  Spreading Demands  The jump in refund claims, mostly from Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac, may signal that repurchases tied to prime loans
will spread to the rest of the industry, according to  Christine Clifford , vice president of Access Mortgage Research &
Consulting Inc. in Columbia, Maryland. With the U.S.  jobless 
rate stuck above 9 percent for 18 months, more of the most
creditworthy borrowers will miss payments, she said.  “When there is a default, Fannie and Freddie are more
likely to audit the loan,” said Clifford, a 27-year veteran of
the business. “This is a big problem and I don’t think it’s
contained.”  Bank of America, the biggest by assets in the U.S., is the
only firm among the  top four  home lenders to disclose the credit
quality of loans tied to the refunds, also called putbacks.
Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said on Nov. 4 that
any losses will be “manageable through earnings in the next
couple of years.”  Disputed Claims  Putback claims on prime loans are surging because of
stepped-up demands from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the
government-owned mortgage companies, which buy  mostly  prime
loans, according to  Thomas Lawler , a former portfolio manager at
Fannie Mae and now an economic consultant. Investors in so-
called private-label mortgage securities, which are backed by a
greater percentage of lower-rated loans including subprime,
haven’t been as successful. That may change if the investors get
better organized, Lawler said.  When banks sell mortgages to investors or bundle them into
securities, they typically offer “representations and
warranties,” in which they guarantee that information backing
the loans is accurate. Examples include borrowers’ income and
the appraised worth of the home. If the data is proven wrong,
the bank may buy back the loan or reimburse investors for the
lost value.  Moynihan, 51, said last month that the bank was engaged in
“hand-to-hand combat” to fend off buyback demands from Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac as well as bond insurers and private
investors who also want to return loans to the company.  Putback Tally  Pending putback claims rose to $12.9 billion by Sept. 30
from $7.7 billion at the end of 2009, Bank of America said.
Requests from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac on loans created in
2007, at the peak of  home prices , fueled much of the rise as
those mortgages had higher delinquency rates, the bank said.  Prime loans made up 28 percent of outstanding claims at
Sept. 30, compared with 19 percent at the end of 2009, according
to the Bank of America  filing . Demands tied to loans that were
deemed Alt-A, a designation in between prime and subprime,
climbed 74 percent to $3.5 billion. Claims on home-equity loans
rose 50 percent to $3.4 billion, while demands linked to “pay
option” loans, in which borrowers can typically choose to make
smaller initial payments than with fixed-rate mortgages,
expanded 24 percent to $1.4 billion.  In addition to the $4.4 billion already reserved, Bank of
America has said it expects to set aside about $500 million each
quarter to cover valid claims for the next few years. The
industry probably will be fully reserved for putbacks by the end
of 2012, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by  Kian Abouhossein 
said in a Nov. 12 note.  Countrywide’s Role  More than half of the claims at Bank of America stem from
mortgages created by Countrywide Financial Corp., acquired in
2008, said  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for the bank. The
demands are mostly tied to loans made from 2004 to 2008, when
the industry’s underwriting standards were more lax, he said.  “You had a lot of limited-documentation loans from
Countrywide that were classified as prime but weren’t really
prime products,” said  Christopher Thornberg , principal at
Beacon Economics LLC in Los Angeles. “Just because you were
prime from a credit standpoint doesn’t mean you were being
truthful about other parts of your credit profile.”  The lender is examining every disputed mortgage to
determine why it soured and whether the firm is at fault,
Dubrowski said. The bank will “act responsibly” and repurchase
the loan in cases where there were valid defects, he said.  Causes Differ  “The question becomes, what led to that loan not
performing as expected?” Dubrowski said. “Was it the economy?
Did the person lose his or her job and stop making the payments?
Was there some external event that triggered that loan to stop
performing, or was it an underwriting or documentation defect?”  Bank of America’s $12.9 billion in claims represents the
unpaid principal balance of mortgages where a buyback demand is
pending. Actual losses typically have been smaller because some
claims turn out to be invalid, according to a Bank of America
 presentation  to investors on Nov. 4. Even among loans that are
repurchased after defects are found, losses can be trimmed by
seizing the collateral.  To illustrate the point, the bank said cumulative claims
from government-sponsored enterprises on $1.2 trillion of
mortgages originated from 2004 to 2008 have amounted to
$18 billion. Of those claims, $11.4 billion were resolved, with
losses totaling $2.5 billion as of Sept. 30. Bank of America
estimated it’s about two-thirds of the way through the claims it
will ultimately receive from the GSEs.  Congressional Pressure  Janis Smith , a spokeswoman for Washington-based Fannie Mae,
and  Michael Cosgrove  of McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac
declined to comment. Fannie and Freddie don’t detail putback
requests by credit quality.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, created by Congress to boost
U.S. homeownership by buying mortgages, were seized in September
2008. With more than $150 billion in taxpayer funds already
spent on bailing out the two firms, lawmakers are pressing them
to shift more of the burden back to the banks that created
defective loans.  In an August letter to President  Barack Obama ,
Representative  Barney Frank , the Massachusetts Democrat who
leads the House Financial Services Committee, said the battle to
get refunds “should be fought with every tool.”  Pacific Investment Management Co., BlackRock Inc. and the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York are seeking to force Bank of
America to repurchase soured mortgages packaged into about
$47 billion of bonds by Countrywide, people familiar with the
matter have said. Bond insurers including  MBIA Inc.  have turned
to lawsuits to seek recovery from lenders.  Bearing Costs  The industry’s losses from putbacks may total about
$52 billion and will be borne mostly by Bank of America,
JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo & Co. and Citigroup Inc., according
to a Nov. 16  report  from the Congressional Oversight Panel. The
four banks have already booked $11.4 billion in costs and
reserved a total of about $10 billion for coming expenses, the
panel said.  Prime putback demands probably increased at Bank of
America’s rivals because Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are the main
source, said  Mark Calabria , director of financial-regulation
studies at the Cato Institute, a policy research group in
Washington.  Tom Kelly  of JPMorgan, Vickee Adams of Wells Fargo
and  Mark Rodgers  of Citigroup declined to comment.  Systemic Risk  Rising defaults and their potential to create more putbacks
caught the attention of the Congressional Oversight Panel, which
said in its  report  that Bank of America could suffer “disabling
damage” to its capital if reserves are inadequate. Bank of
America got $45 billion in U.S. bailouts during the financial
crisis, which has since been repaid, and Moynihan said when he
accepted the CEO job last year that his goals include ensuring
the bank will never again need government help.  The panel, whose mission is to monitor financial markets
and regulators, said the U.S. Treasury Department “has claimed
that based on evidence to date, mortgage-related problems
currently pose no danger to the financial system, but in light
of the extensive uncertainties in the market today, Treasury’s
assertions appear premature.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 