-- Banks Bailed Out With Government Funds Must Restructure Under EU Measure
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2010-12-01T13:58:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/banks-might-be-weaned-off-government-aid-by-2012-under-european-union-plan.html
Lenders must draw up restructuring
plans starting next year in return for government capital
injections or asset transfers to so-called bad banks under
European Union measures announced today.  Every bank in the EU “having recourse to state support in
the form of capital or impaired asset measures will have to
submit a restructuring plan,” the  European Commission  said in
an e-mailed statement. Until now “this was limited to
distressed banks.”  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s competition commissioner, said
the measure is part of a plan to phase out crisis aid rules for
banks, “to prepare a gradual return” to normal market
functioning. “The remaining risk of renewed stress is a valid
reason to proceed with care and caution,” he said.  Banks in the 27-nation EU used around 1.1 trillion euros
($1.44 trillion) of state loans or guarantees last year, the
commission said today. The EU’s antitrust agency, which checks
whether subsidies distort competition in the region, granted
approval for the measures as part of its response to the biggest
financial crisis since the Great Depression.  EU policymakers are trying to wean banks off government
help to avoid harming competition. Almunia extended the crisis
rules into 2011, telling reporters he hoped to end them in a
year’s time or “when normal conditions come back.” That could
see new state aid guidelines for the financial industry starting
on Jan. 1, 2012, he said.  Saber Rattling  Tougher conditions for bailing out banks are a way for
politicians to “rattle the sabers and make sure they can say
the banks have a way out of government support longer term,”
said  Christopher Wheeler , a banking analyst with Mediobanca SpA
in London.  Europe’s debt crisis has also forced the European Central
Bank to extend unlimited lending to euro-area banks into 2011,
postponing its exit from the so-called non-standard measures.
The ECB is seeking to reduce commercial banks’ reliance on its
extra funding, introduced to help battle the financial crisis,
and see them return to the interbank market.  The commission has already sought divestments to compensate
for the state help that banks received.  Commerzbank AG  last year
agreed to sell off some 45 percent of its balance sheet,
including a commercial-property unit, and to suspend dividend
payments to win EU approval for a taxpayer-funded rescue.  Lloyds, RBS  Lloyds Banking Group Plc , Britain’s biggest mortgage
lender, had to sell insurance units and some branches and Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc pledged to reduce its balance sheet
by 40 percent and to sell more than 300 branches, insurance
units and other assets in return for receiving state aid.  While EU regulators want bank investors to take on some of
the costs of a bailout, Almunia said he was not able to
“establish a general rule with precise conditions for burden-
sharing” that would require bank bondholders to contribute.
Each decision had to be case by case, he said.  Almunia said yesterday he’s in “difficult” negotiations
with  WestLB AG  and Bayerische Landesbank, two lenders owned by
German regions, over their restructuring plans. He must also
approve the restructuring of 42 others, including Anglo Irish
Bank Corp. which Ireland nationalized in 2009 and Allied Irish
Banks Plc, the country’s second-largest bank.  Increased Fees  Antitrust regulators have signaled they may further
increase fees that banks pay for state guarantees on their
borrowings from mid-2011.  The guarantees help lenders obtain funding, providing a
backstop for creditors and bondholders. Governments set the
fees, which can’t fall below a minimum level determined by the
EU’s executive arm.  Spanish and Irish lenders including Allied Irish and Anglo
Irish are covered by state guarantees until June. 30. Ireland’s
so-called Eligible Liabilities Guarantee, covers 147 billion
euros of liabilities, including 116 billion euros of deposits,
as of Sept. 30, according to the National Treasury Management
Agency.  In Germany, Commerzbank, Aareal Bank AG and IKB Deutsche
Industriebank AG are among several banks using guarantees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 