-- Bank of Japan May Prove Wrong on '11 Deflation-End Call, Board Member Says
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2010-12-01T05:53:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/bank-of-japan-s-suda-sees-low-chance-of-beating-deflation-in-fiscal-2011.html
Bank of Japan board member  Miyako Suda  said the nation probably won’t overcome deflation in the
year starting April, an outlook that conflicts with the central
bank’s forecast of moderate inflation in the year.  “Chances of overcoming negative core  consumer prices  in
the next fiscal year aren’t high,” Suda said in a speech in
Yamagata, northern Japan, today, referring to the 12 months
starting April. “It will take a while to beat deflation.”  Suda, the board’s longest-serving member whose term expires
in March, refrained from offering any proposals to beat more
than a decade of price declines. The central bank in October cut
its  interest rates  to close to zero and created a 5 trillion-yen
($60 billion) fund to buy government and corporate debt as well
as riskier instruments including exchange-traded funds.  “Given that Suda is a relatively hawkish member of the
board, the fact she said prices will keep falling suggests the
BOJ may delay ending its comprehensive easing program,” said
 Naoki Iizuka , a senior economist at Mizuho Securities Co. in
Tokyo. “There’s no way the conditions necessary for price
increases will be set in fiscal 2011.”  Suda is the first board member to indicate deflation may
linger beyond next year since the BOJ policy board forecast in
October that core consumer prices will rise 0.1 percent in
fiscal 2011. Prices by that measure, which excludes fresh food,
fell 0.6 percent in October, the 20th straight drop.  The rebasing of the price index next August also lowers
chances of overcoming price declines, Suda said. The statistics
bureau will reshuffle the basket of goods used to measure CPI, a
move that Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimates may lower the
inflation rate by 0.4 percentage point.  Risks Linger  Suda said that risks for the economy may linger as the
yen’s advance against the dollar clouds the outlook for growth.
Reports in the past week have shown  exports  rose at the slowest
pace this year and  factory production  declined for a fifth month,
evidence that points to the economic expansion weakening in the
final quarter of 2010.  “Given the strong yen and deterioration in corporate and
consumer sentiment, there’s a high risk that the temporary
weakening in the economy will be sustained,” Suda said.  BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  said this week that
expanding the bank’s asset-buying program is a “probable
option” if the bank needs to ease monetary policy further.  Suda later told reporters that the central bank is aware it
may need to diversify the assets purchased in the 5 trillion-yen
fund to avoid exerting too much influence over specific markets.  Foreign-Currency Assets  Asked whether those purchases could include foreign-
currency assets, Suda said the chances were “extremely low, but
not zero.” She added such buys could be interpreted as a form
of currency intervention.  The bank in October pledged to maintain ”virtually zero”
interest rates until an outlook emerges for sustained price
increases. Board members say they consider inflation stable in a
positive range of up to 2 percent, with their median estimate at
1 percent.  “The Bank of Japan will remain under pressure to ease
further given the economic outlook is murky,” said  Masamichi Adachi , senior economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo.
“Japan’s economy is in a soft patch with a risk of a delayed
recovery because the impact of the strong yen will weigh more on
growth from this quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Toru Fujioka  in Yamagata at
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  