-- Belarus Pledges at Summit to Eliminate Highly Enriched Uranium Stockpiles
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-12-01T14:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/belarus-pledges-at-summit-to-eliminate-highly-enriched-uranium-stockpiles.html
Belarus will eliminate its stocks of
highly enriched uranium by the next Nuclear Security Summit in
2012, Foreign Minister  Sergei Martynov  said today.  The U.S. will provide technical and financial support to
help Belarus complete the project as quickly as possible,
Martynov said during an appearance with Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  at an  Organization for Security and Cooperation
in Europe  meeting in Astana, Kazakhstan.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  has made non-proliferation a
priority for his administration, with the aim of securing
stockpiles of highly enriched uranium, some of which can be used
to make weapons, and converting international reactors to less-
enriched fuel.  Ukraine, another former Soviet republic, agreed to get rid
of its stocks of highly enriched uranium by 2012 during the 47-
nation Nuclear Security Summit hosted by Obama last April in
Washington.  The same month, Belorussian President  Alexander Lukashenko 
said his country had “hundreds of kilograms of what is
basically weapons-grade and lower-enriched uranium.” The
country used the material for research purposes, Lukashenko
said, according to the Russian news service Interfax.  Agendas Coincide  Belarus wasn’t invited to the April summit after the
government made clear it wouldn’t relinquish its uranium stocks,
a State Department official said on condition of anonymity. The
only other nations not invited were Iran and North Korea.  Lukashenko’s government agreed to change its position after
further talks with the U.S., the official said.  Belarus agreed to send about 220 kilograms (485 pounds) of
uranium to Russia, where it will be diluted for use as fuel in
nuclear power plants, the official said. The country plans to
have its first reactor in operation by 2018, with a second going
online in 2020.  The deal helps Belarus, which depends on Russia for most of
its energy needs, diversify supplies, while furthering the U.S.
goal of reducing nuclear stockpiles, the official said.  Belarus has as much as 370 kilograms of highly enriched
uranium, at least 40 kilograms of which is enriched to 90
percent, according to research by the James Martin Center for
Nonproliferation Studies and the  Nuclear Threat Initiative , a
Washington-based policy group founded by  Ted Turner  and former
Republican Senator  Sam Nunn .  Uranium enriched to more than 80 percent is weapons-grade.  The James Martin Center is the largest U.S. nongovernmental
organization devoted exclusively to research and training on
nonproliferation issues. It is a graduate school of Middlebury
College in Vermont.  Clinton and Martynov pledged to work together on nuclear
security and security upgrades at the Belarus Joint Institute
for Power and Nuclear Research. Clinton also welcomed
indications that South Korea will invite Belarus to the 2012
Nuclear Security Summit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Astana, Kazakhstan at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  