-- Betfair Plans Web Gambling on Horses in California as State Law Lifts Ban
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2010-12-01T14:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/betfair-plans-web-betting-on-horses-in-california-as-online-ban-is-lifted.html
Betfair Group Plc , a British online-
gambling company, is wagering that it can revitalize
California’s slumping horseracing industry.  The London-based company, which has spent a decade bringing
legal sports betting to the Web, set its sights on California
after the state passed a bill in September allowing horse
betting through online exchanges.  Betfair has opened an office in San Francisco, where it’s
likely to more than quadruple its workforce next year to about
100, said  Stephen Burn , the company’s global director of racing.
California’s law, the first in the nation to legalize so-called
exchange wagering, takes effect in May 2012.  “There’s potentially massive upside there for us,” said
Burn, 48, who moved to the state from England a year ago. “We
don’t share the doom and gloom that other people have been
coming up with about U.S. horseracing.”  California gamblers are currently limited to pool betting,
where money wagered on a horse is shared by the people who win.
Exchange wagering works like a stock exchange, letting a racing
fan bet on a horse to win or lose -- even after the race has
started -- with the odds changing in real time. As the developer
of the exchange, Betfair gets a commission on every wager.  Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  and the California
legislature are counting on the law to help save the state’s
struggling horse tracks. In the past decade, the amount bet on
races has dropped about 10 percent, and attendance at tracks
tumbled by more than a third.  Multibillion-Dollar Company  Betfair says it’s in a unique position to benefit from the
law because it has an online exchange designed for horseracing
and can work with regulators to ensure bets follow the rules.
While lots of other sites provide online betting, many focus
more on poker or other card games and aren’t legal in the U.S.  Founded in 1999, Betfair’s exchange lets Internet users
worldwide bet on sporting events, including horseracing. Most of
its 3 million customers are outside the U.S.  Betfair first sold shares to the public in October and is
valued at about 1.4 billion pounds ($2.2 billion) on the London
Stock Exchange. Horseracing accounts for about 35 percent of
revenue, according to Burn. The company reported a 13 percent
increase in fiscal  2010 sales  to 340.9 million pounds.  It entered the U.S. in January 2009 with the $50 million
purchase of Los Angeles-based TVG, a TV network and betting site
that operates in states where gambling on horseracing is legal.
About 350 of Betfair’s 2,000  employees  work for TVG.  San Francisco Office  While the acquisition of TVG gave Betfair a foothold in
California, the company sees a bigger opportunity in exchange
wagering, which it popularized in countries such as the U.K.,
Italy and Australia. It has 20 employees in San Francisco and
expects to hire as many as 80 more by the middle of next year,
mostly working on exchange technology, Burn said.  The company may face competition in California. Companies
such as  Churchill Downs Inc. , which hosts the Kentucky Derby,
have expressed interest in the market.  Exchange wagering attracts younger, more technology-savvy
bettors than traditional pools betting, Burn said. About 80
percent of TVG’s customer base is over the age of 50, while 80
percent of Betfair’s users are under 50, he said.  The new measure was unanimously supported by the  California
Horse Racing Board , which regulates gambling on the sport.
Chairman  Keith Brackpool  says California has fallen behind
states that have slot machines and casino games at tracks.  Because California has no racetrack-casino combinations,
known as racinos, the industry is bringing in less revenue,
which means less prize money, poorer horses and a reduction in
total betting.  ‘Best Chance’  “You have this paradox now where tiny little tracks are
offering big prize money because they’re all subsidized through
the slot operations,” said Brackpool, who is also chief
executive officer of  Cadiz Inc. , a Los Angeles company that owns
thousands of acres of California desert. “This is our best
chance of bringing in a new audience.”  Attendance at California tracks tumbled to 6.7 million last
year from 10 million in 2000, according to data from the state-
run racing board. The amount wagered dropped 9.1 percent to
$3.67 billion, and commissions fell 14 percent to $146.5 million
from $171.1 million.  Bay Meadows  in San Mateo, the track where Seabiscuit won
twice in the 1930s, closed in 2008, making way for a residential
and commercial district.  Churchill Downs  The new rules don’t go into effect until mid-2012 because
the state wanted to let regulators establish procedures and give
companies time to build their technology. The bill has a clause
that allows it to expire in May 2016 if it proves unpopular.  Churchill Downs  CEO  Robert Evans  cited the California
legislation in a conference call last month. The Louisville,
Kentucky-based company is looking for ways to profit from online
gaming, he said.  “The industry is hoping that the growth of the online
space is going to help offset the decline of traditional on-
track betting,” said  Anil Gupta , an analyst at Imperial Capital
in Los Angeles.  Betfair CEO  David Yu  says his company will spend the next
year working closely with regulators to ensure that new laws are
clear to consumers and to establish a system that pumps enough
revenue into the state and the horseracing industry.  Regulation Wanted  “We like to see well-regulated markets,” Yu said in an
interview in San Francisco. “You should have regulation that
protects consumers, and there should be a tax framework in
place.”  Following Sacramento’s lead, the New Jersey Senate passed a
bill last month to legalize exchange wagering. The law, still
awaiting the governor’s signature, may take effect by the middle
of 2011 -- a year earlier than in California. Betfair is hoping
more states enter the fray to create a bigger market, with more
tracks and customers.  “The more liquidity you get, the more attractive the
markets become, and you have this snowball effect,” Burn said.
“We can build the exchange for all of America and operate it
from California.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ari Levy  in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  