-- Bill Clinton, David Beckham Back U.S. Bid to Host Soccer World Cup in 2022
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-12-01T00:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/bill-clinton-david-beckham-back-u-s-bid-to-host-soccer-world-cup-in-2022.html
The U.S. bid to host the 2022 World
Cup has the backing of former president  Bill Clinton  and ex-
England soccer captain  David Beckham . Tomorrow, the group needs
to win over members of the sport’s governing body.  At stake is about $5 billion, what the American delegation
estimates holding the world’s most-watched sporting event is
worth. FIFA will vote on the host countries for the 2018 and
2022 events in Zurich on Dec. 2.  The U.S.’s two-year campaign may hinge on the abilities of
Clinton, 64, and actor  Morgan Freeman , 73, to convince the 22
men who sit in the decision making committee during final
presentations today. The American bid is behind Qatar, at odds
of 4-5, and Australia at 5-2 at U.K. bookmaker Ladbrokes.com,
which rates the U.S. a 3-1 shot. That means a successful $1 bet
would bring in $3 plus the original stake.  Qatar “has been getting increasing support,” said Alex
Donohue, a spokesman for Ladbrokes. “People see the Gulf states
as having plenty of money to invest in the infrastructure to
stage a World Cup and they’re football-mad there.”  Sunil Gulati , who runs the sport’s governing body in
America, and U.S. national team captain  Landon Donovan , will
also lead the American fight.  “When you hear (President Clinton) talk about the game,
the power of the game, the connection of that to the things he
spends every day thinking about and trying to change I couldn’t
do it justice,” Gulati told reporters yesterday. “I’d let him
do that.”  Final Presentations  The delegation makes its final presentation to FIFA’s
Executive Committee at 5 p.m. local time. The panel will decide
a day later between the offer and those from Australia, Qatar,
Japan and Korea. It will also vote on where the 2018 tournament
will be staged. Russia is favorite for the earlier event, at 1-3
at William Hill Plc, followed by England at 10-3, Portugal/Spain
at 9-2 and Belgium and Holland at 25-1.  The decision about where to take sport’s most-watched event
after Brazil in 2014 has been marred by a corruption
investigation that led to the suspension of two voters and
allegations of rule-breaching vote-sharing agreements.  The U.S. hasn’t been implicated in any of the controversies
and was ranked as the only bidder in the 2022 competition
estimated to be able to reach revenue targets set by FIFA,
according to a confidential report prepared for the governing
body by McKinsey & Co. Still, Gulati said it wasn’t easy to
predict what would happen in the secret vote.  Roller Coaster  “We’re feeling good about things,” he said. “It’s roller
coaster: You can feel good right now but who knows.”  Jack Warner , head of CONCACAF, the governing body that
includes North America, said yesterday that the region’s three
votes will go in favor of the U.S. after speaking to President
 Barack Obama .  The U.S. committee has lined up meetings between Clinton
and backers of the bid in a final effort to solidify their
support. He will also meet officials that U.S. officials think
can be last minute converts to the bid’s merits.  A majority vote is required to decide the host. If that
isn’t immediately attained, the lowest-scoring bids are
eliminated in further voting rounds.  Counting against the U.S. may be that it, just like Japan
and Korea, hosted the tournament before. Qatar and Australia are
first time bidders. The 1994 event in the U.S. still holds the
record for the highest attendance of any World Cup, despite only
having 24 teams rather than the current 32 took part.  Donovan, 28, said he’ll use his memories of that event to
remind FIFA what kind of an impact a U.S. World Cup can have.  “My story can be replicated and duplicated if we get the
World Cup in 12 years and I want to give that opportunity to
another kid to be in my position like I was in 1994,” said
Donovan, a forward with Major League Soccer’s Los Angeles
Galaxy.  Beckham Support  David Beckham, a teammate of Donovan’s in Los Angeles, gave
his support to the U.S.’s bid yesterday.  “I’ve lived in America now for four years and I’ve seen
how the game’s been growing,” said Beckham, in Zurich to speak
on behalf of England’s 2018 bid. “I’ve seen the interest in the
game so without a doubt they can host the World Cup. I’ve loved
my time there.”  FIFA’s technical reports praised the American bid for its
stadiums and infrastructure. Yet, with such a small pool of
voters, personal relationships are likely to be just as crucial
in determining the final result.  “We know all of these people they’re friends,” said
Gulati. “In some cases very close friends, in others we don’t
know as well. So it’s very hard because it’s also true for some
of the other people that are also bidding. So in the end you’re
going to have to disappoint some friends.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Zurich at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  