-- Blockbuster Plans to Reject 18 Store Leases Across U.S., Abandon Property
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2010-12-01T16:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/blockbuster-plans-to-reject-18-store-leases-across-u-s-abandon-property.html
Blockbuster Inc. , the world’s largest
movie-rental company, will reject leases and close 18 stores
across the U.S., according to court papers. Separately, the
company reported a net loss of $36.5 million for the six weeks
ending Oct. 31.  Leases in states including Florida, California, Georgia and
Illinois are being abandoned as of yesterday, under a court
order allowing the bankrupt company to reject unexpired leases,
Blockbuster lawyers said in papers in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
New York.  Chief Executive Officer  James W. Keyes  said in September he
would evaluate “every single store” as the company reorganizes
to compete with rivals providing movies online and by mail.  The 25-year-old Dallas-based company filed for bankruptcy
Sept. 23 after losing sales to Netflix Inc.’s Web and mail-order
movie service and Coinstar Inc.’s Redbox DVD rental kiosks.  According to an operating report filed yesterday in court,
revenue was $177.8 million for Sept. 23 to Oct. 31, and cash and
cash equivalents were $52.2 million.  Blockbuster’s deadline for filing a Chapter 11 plan was
extended two weeks to Dec. 15, according to a regulatory filing
yesterday.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton R. Lifland  has approved a
creditors’ request to investigate the October 2009 refinancing
of Blockbuster’s senior notes, the negotiation of the plan
support agreement and alternative proposals made to the company.  Pre-Bankruptcy Events  Creditors can seek documents in an investigation of events
before the company’s bankruptcy, including the involvement of
investments by  Carl Icahn , the billionaire chairman of New York-
based Icahn Enterprises LP.  Blockbuster filed under Chapter 11 of the bankruptcy code
with the support of lenders who held 80 percent of its secured
notes and agreed to finance operations in bankruptcy.  Icahn Partners LP was one of the lenders, which also
included Monarch Capital Master Partners LP and Owl Creek Asset
Management LP.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tiffany Kary  in New York bankruptcy court
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 