-- Boeing Sees `More Adding Than Subtracting' in Defense as Budget Tightens
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2010-12-01T22:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/boeing-sees-more-adding-than-subtracting-in-defense-as-budget-tightens.html
Boeing Co. , the second-biggest
defense contractor, plans to grow through smaller acquisitions
in new industries and by boosting international sales, even as
U.S. military spending declines.  “I’d like to build out additional capacities and get more
balance,”  Dennis Muilenburg , president of the company’s defense
unit, said in an interview today at Bloomberg’s headquarters in
New York. “It’s more about adding than subtracting.”  Boeing Defense Systems has  bought  10 companies in three
years to expand in unmanned systems; intelligence, surveillance
and reconnaissance; computer networks; and logistics services.
Chicago-based Boeing will stick with that strategy rather than
seeking to join with a similar-sized rival because mergers in
the past two decades have shrunk the industry, Muilenburg said.  “I don’t see large-scale consolidation,” he said. “In
some cases our customers are left with a single or two suppliers
at the prime level. Even in the second and third tier, the
number of competitors is dwindling.”  Boeing is second only to  Lockheed Martin Corp . in military
sales, with $33.7 billion in 2009 revenue, compared with $34.1
billion for the company’s commercial-airplanes business.  The company will have to look to countries such as India
for sales growth as U.S. military spending will be unchanged or
even drop slightly over the next five years, Muilenburg said.
Foreign contracts make up about 18 percent of Boeing’s defense
sales and will grow to 25 percent in five years, he said.  ‘Extended’ Decline  A decline in U.S. defense budgets may persist “for an
extended period of time given the history of decade-long
cycles,”  Noah Poponak , a  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . analyst in
New York, wrote yesterday in a note to clients.  With the Pentagon pushing contractors to take on more risk
in the form of fixed-price orders, defense companies’ profit
margins may also decline, wrote Poponak, who has a  buy rating  on
Boeing.  Annual sales growth will exceed 10 percent in cyber-
security, the focus of about half of Boeing’s recent purchases,
Muilenburg said. He said he would continue to look for
“selective, niche” takeover targets.  “Our focus on the acquisition side has been on how we can
execute our business strategy and provide capabilities that fill
out that strategy,” Muilenburg said.  Delays on Boeing’s 787 Dreamliner, which is almost three
years behind schedule, isn’t affecting the defense unit’s
ability to expand through acquisitions, Muilenburg said. Defense
acquisitions help the company, and corporate support has been
“rock solid,” he said.  Boeing  rose $1.95, or 3.1 percent, to $65.72 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
gained 21 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gopal Ratnam  in New York at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
 Susanna Ray  in New York at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  