-- Merrill, BofA Sold $22.9 Billion of Commercial Paper to Fed in October '08
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g   a n d   J a m e s   S t e r n g o l d
-- 2010-12-01T21:55:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/bofa-merrill-sold-22-9-billion-of-commercial-paper-to-fed-in-october-08.html
Bank of America Corp.  and Merrill
Lynch & Co. sold $22.9 billion of commercial paper to the
Federal Reserve in October 2008, days after the two companies
received $25 billion in U.S. bailout funds.  The Fed bought $7.96 billion of three-month notes from
Merrill on Oct. 27, then purchased $14.9 billion from Bank of
America two days later, according to data on the Commercial
Paper Funding Facility. The transactions were disclosed today
when the Fed, under orders from Congress, named firms that
received $3.3 trillion in aid to stem the financial panic.  The purchases add to the tally of bailouts for Bank of
America, the biggest U.S. lender by assets, which took $45
billion from the Troubled Asset Relief Program. The Charlotte,
North Carolina-based bank agreed to buy Merrill in September
2008, accepted a combined $25 billion in TARP funds the next
month, and needed another $20 billion to complete the purchase
in January 2009 as losses surged at the New York-based broker.  “Commercial paper is the glue that holds the credit
markets together,” said  Tony Plath , a finance professor at the
University of North Carolina at Charlotte. “At that time, none
of the securities companies could roll over their short-term
 debt  because the market wasn’t receptive. The Fed kept the
crisis from ruining the entire credit market.”  Aid Repaid  Investor demand for commercial paper, an unsecured short-
term loan typically issued to finance inventories and accounts
receivable, evaporated in mid-2008 amid concern that the largest
U.S. banks might fail. U.S. officials responded with expanded
bank deposit insurance, loans, debt guarantees and capital
injections.  “The funding and guarantee programs were an example of a
successful government initiative at no taxpayer expense,” said
 Robert Stickler , a bank spokesman, in an e-mailed statement.
“The programs enabled the U.S. financial system to continue to
operate, preventing a recession from becoming much more
severe,” he said. “We have repaid, with interest, all of the
borrowings except some of those whose terms have not expired.”  Bank of America was also among the top borrowers from the
Term Auction Facility, one of the Federal Reserve’s first and
longest-lasting efforts to combat the financial crisis. Bank of
America had three loans for $15 billion each outstanding as of
Jan. 15, 2009, according to the Fed documents.  More Borrowing  On top of that, Bank of America and Merrill Lynch borrowed
from the Term Securities Lending Facility, which provided
longer-term funding. On March 27, 2008, Bank of America borrowed
$7 billion from the Fed’s TSLF in exchange for $8.39 billion of
collateral that included $6 billion of agency-backed mortgage
debt and $2.37 billion of non-agency-backed mortgage debt.  That same day, Merrill Lynch borrowed $10 billion from the
TSLF in exchange for $11.97 billion in collateral.  A day earlier, analyst  Meredith Whitney  cut earnings
estimates for the largest U.S. banks by an average of 84 percent
and predicted quarterly losses at Citigroup Inc. Merrill Lynch
and UBS AG. Whitney, who then worked for Oppenheimer & Co., now
heads her own advisory company.  The bank and Merrill tapped the facility more than 50 times
between March 2008 and March 2009, while a unit of Countrywide
Financial Corp. used it 10 times. Bank of America acquired
Countrywide in July 2008.  Bank of America’s shares gained 35 cents, or 3.2 percent,
to $11.29 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange  trading . The
shares have declined 25 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net ;
 James Sterngold  in New York at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Green at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 