-- Toronto-Dominion, Bombardier, Enbridge, Valeant: Canadian Equity Preview
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2010-12-02T14:32:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/bombardier-toronto-dominion-valeant-canadian-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies may
have  unusual  moves in  Canadian trading . Stock symbols are in
parentheses.  Bombardier Inc.  (BBD/B CT): The world’s third-biggest
civil-aircraft manufacturer posted third-quarter earnings
excluding some items of 8 cents a share, missing the average
analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey by a penny.  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce  (CM CT): Canada’s fifth-
largest bank by assets reported fourth-quarter profit that fell
22 percent to C$500 million, or C$1.17 a share.  Enbridge Inc.  (ENB CT): Canada’s largest pipeline company
raised its quarterly dividend by 15 percent to 49 cents a share
as of the dividend payable on March 1.       Gildan Activewear Inc.  (GIL CT): The clothing maker with
operations in the U.S., Haiti and Central America initiated a
quarterly dividend of 7.5 cents a share and said it intends to
buy back up to 1 million shares.       SXC Health Solutions Corp . (SXC CT): The provider of
pharmacy benefit management services and health-care information
technology said it agreed to buy MedfusionRx LLC for $100
million in cash.  Talisman Energy Inc.  (TLM CT): The Calgary-based oil and
gas company got a C$3.85 billion ($3.78 billion) revolving line
of credit for general corporate purposes, according to a person
familiar with the deal.  Toronto-Dominion Bank  (TD CT): The country’s second-biggest
bank reported fourth-quarter profit of C$1.38 a share, missing
the average profit estimate among 16 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey of C$1.46 a share, excluding certain items.  Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc.  (VRX CT):
Canada’s largest drugmaker said the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration declined to approve ezogabine, an epilepsy
medicine developed with GlaxoSmithKline Plc, in its current
form. The companies said they believe the FDA’s concerns can be
addressed.       Viterra Inc.  (VT CT): Canada’s biggest grain handler
announced an annual dividend of C$0.10 a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang at   ihwang7@blooomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  