-- Bombardier Says New Airbus Plane Model Won't Affect CSeries Production
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2010-12-01T21:35:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/bombardier-s-scott-says-airbus-neo-validates-cseries-engine.html
Airbus SAS’s decision to move ahead
with its new NEO narrow-body model “doesn’t really change”
customer interest in  Bombardier Inc.’s  new CSeries model and
validates the Montreal-based planemaker’s choice of engine
offering, an executive said.  “What they’re doing is upgrading their existing airplane
with a new engine, which does help, but it still really can’t
compete with a new CSeries,”  Gary Scott , who runs Bombardier’s
commercial aerospace division, said in an interview today.
“We’re delighted actually that Airbus has endorsed the geared
turbofan and our engine selection.”  Bombardier, which reports third-quarter results tomorrow,
uses Pratt & Whitney’s geared turbofan as the sole engine on the
all-new CSeries, slated to debut at the end of 2013. The model,
which starts at 110 seats, aims to compete with Airbus’s smaller
models, a market Bombardier projects at about 6,000 aircraft.
Scott said the company should win about half of that market.  Airbus’s announcement intensifies competition with  Boeing
Co. , whose 737 is the world’s best-selling aircraft. Boeing
isn’t committing yet to a new engine for its 737 or a
replacement aircraft,  Nick West , a spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “We always assumed -- assumed -- Airbus and Boeing would
build all new airplanes. So our business case hasn’t changed in
that regard,” Scott said  Twin-Engine Models  Existing narrow-bodies, including the current A320 and 737,
are twin-engine models that seat about 125 to 185 people. List
prices for each plane range from about $65 million to $95
million, depending on the version.  “Airbus’s decision validates the Pratt engine,” said
 Henri Courpron , chief executive officer of aircraft-lessor
International Lease Finance Corp. “It’s good news, as it puts
Bombardier at the forefront of what’s becoming a new standard in
terms of efficiency -- and Bombardier’s plane will be available
before.” Still, now the CSeries will have another platform to
compete with, he said.  Bombardier remains in “advanced discussions” with a
handful of customers, Scott said. He declined to say orders may
be announced by the end of this year.  “We like to set these arbitrary dates, ‘by the end of the
year,’” he said. “Contract negotiations don’t march to
arbitrary dates. They finish when they finish. I would say we
look forward to new orders in the not-too-distant future.”  Economic conditions are the main driver of airline choices,
and airlines are in a “much better mood” Scott said.  “The economy and the health of the airlines is the No. 1
one issue,” Scott said. “Fortunately, the economy has been
moving in the right direction for a while.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  