-- Buyers Pass Up $5 Trillion Bargain of Future: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2010-12-01T22:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/buyers-pass-up-5-trillion-bargain-of-future-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
Frustration reigns as North Korea
acts like a 2-year-old having an epic tantrum.  South Koreans are perturbed by their government’s impotence
in the face of deadly attacks. Americans are bitter that one
option to curb  Kim Jong Il ’s nuclear program is worse than the
next. Japanese believe they are a target. Chinese are losing
patience with their erratic and bellicose ally.  We haven’t seen anything yet. Irritation will rise once
world leaders discuss money. Recent tensions brought the issue
of Korean reunification to the fore as rarely before. The real
questions are: How much will it cost and who will pay? They are
big ones and they aren’t getting enough attention.  The price tag will be $2 trillion to $5 trillion over 30
years, says  Peter Beck , a senior fellow with the Atlantic
Council in Washington. A South Korean presidential committee
puts it between $322 billion to $2.1 trillion, but come on. The
costs of German reunification -- about $2 trillion and counting
-- suggest even $5 trillion is optimistic.  It’s not a matter of whether the world is willing to bear
the cost. It must. North Korea is too nuclear to fail and a
stable peninsula is absolutely in the best interest of the
global economy. It’s among the biggest risks hanging over
markets. In a sense, peace would be, well, priceless.  Serious Money  In practical terms, though, meshing the two Koreas together
could cost more than Japan’s current annual economic output. It
could cost more than double China’s currency reserves, six times
U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s $787 billion stimulus package and
45 times Ireland’s bailout.  We’re talking serious money here -- far beyond anything the
International Monetary Fund and World Bank could cough up. The
thornier issue is who pays. Picking up the check seemed easier
before the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.
Since then, governments borrowed massively, U.S. unemployment
skyrocketed, Europe’s debt crisis mushroomed and Japan’s
deflation worsened.  In a more perfect world, we would look to Asia’s most
developed economy. Yet Japan faces daunting limitations --
namely, a debt that is 200 percent of gross domestic product.
The U.S. has similar constraints and the trajectory of its
policies augurs ill for increased spending abroad.  China? It faces huge challenges in the years ahead and
committing hundreds of billions of dollars to Korea would be
unpopular in Beijing. Like Japan, China’s aging population will
strain government coffers. China isn’t a big fan of a unified
Korea anyway, as it would remove a key buffer between it and the
U.S.  Paying the Bill  South Korea’s $833 billion economy, meanwhile, can only
afford so much.  “Reunification is something hardly anyone in South Korea
wants right now,” says  Bradley Martin , author of “ Under the
Loving Care of the Fatherly Leader .” “That’s not only because
of the enormous expense, but also because Southerners’
experience receiving some 20,000 North Korean defectors shows
that putting the two divergent streams of Korean culture back
together is going to be a huge challenge as well.”  The idea that reunification will go smoothly is fanciful.
Will the South’s nouveau riche accept lower living standards to
absorb the North’s huddled masses? President  Lee Myung Bak  has
proposed a unification tax. South Korean GDP also will take a
sizeable, and still unknowable, hit.  Social cohesion is a big imponderable. Once Internet
connections sweep the North, won’t folks there bristle at the
South’s  wealth ? And then there’s what to do with the North’s 1
million-plus soldiers. Given how disastrous dissolving Iraq’s
military turned out to be, this will have to be handled wisely.
This, too, won’t be cheap.  German Example  Many look to Europe for clues on what lies ahead. It’s a
dubious comparison. East Germans were far more connected to the
global economy than North Koreans. Poverty is much worse in
North Korea. And it won’t enjoy a common market of the kind East
Germans were able to tap into after 1990.  The challenges run far beyond those faced by Germany. Even
high-end estimates for reunification only get the North’s  per
capita income  to 80 percent of the South’s. Really, we could be
talking about $6 trillion or $8 trillion to finish the job.  Perhaps Kim’s regime is banking on a sticker-shock dynamic.
It may be betting that once the true costs are tallied, world
leaders will balk and try to put it off.  Rising Costs  That would suit China just fine, even if there are
indications it’s getting fed up. A leaked Feb. 22 diplomatic
cable  provided  to the Guardian newspaper by  WikiLeaks.org  said
young Chinese Communist party leaders don’t see North Korea as a
reliable ally and some officials think Korea should be unified
under the South.  Getting there will require big money. The longer the
process is delayed, the more antiquated North Korea’s economy
becomes relative to the South’s and the more expensive the
process will be. A unified Korea is a wise investment, yet we
need to think long and hard about how to finance it. The time to
start planning is now.  ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 William Pesek  in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  