-- Calls Mount for Release of Ivory Coast Vote Results
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2010-12-01T22:02:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/calls-mount-for-ivory-coast-results-three-days-after-presidential-election.html
Calls on  Ivory Coast’s  election
commission to release results from this week’s presidential
runoff mounted, a day after a member of the body halted an
announcement of the partial count.  United Nations Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon  “urges the
Independent Electoral Commission to announce the provisional
results of the second round of the presidential election without
delay, today,” according to a statement published on the UN’s
website. The European Union’s foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  called for the release of the results “by this evening in
accordance with the agreed schedule,” in an e-mailed statement.  Opposition leader  Alassane Ouattara  said the lack of
results left the country in a “state of uncertainty,”
according to a statement given in Abidjan and confirmed by his
spokeswoman, Massere Toure.  Ouattara, a former prime minister, is contesting incumbent
President  Laurent Gbagbo  to lead the world’s top cocoa grower.
The election is meant to be a key step in uniting the nation,
which was left split between a rebel-held north and government-
controlled south after a 2002 uprising.  ‘Great Concern’  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said it is “essential”
that the commission release results by the deadline of tonight,
three days after the ballot, according to a statement on his
website. German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said the
delay “causes us great concern,” according to Deutsche Presse-
Agentur. On Nov. 29, the commission released results from
Ivorians who voted overseas, which showed Ouattara leading with
60 percent, and Gbagbo obtaining 40 percent.  A press conference held by Bamba Yacouba, a spokesman for
the commission, was thrown into disarray yesterday when another
member of the commission halted the event, saying the results
about to be released for three regions were not valid.  Yacouba refuted the claim made by Tokpa Behi Etienne,
saying the votes had been confirmed. The commission was due to
begin releasing results again today in Abidjan, though most
journalists were prevented from entering the agency’s
headquarters. A night time curfew was extended to Dec. 5,
according to a statement read on state-owned broadcaster
 Radiodiffusion Television Ivoirienne . If results aren’t released
by midnight they will be confirmed or otherwise by the
Constitutional Council, according to Agence France-Presse, which
said the council is headed by an ally of Gbagbo.  Cocoa deliveries have been slowed by the political unrest,
Minnetonka, Minnesota-based Cargill Inc.’s spokesman  Mark Klein 
said today. The price of beans for December delivery declined
$46, or 1.7 percent, to $2,726 as of 4:30 p.m. in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pauline Bax  and  Olivier Monnier  in Abidjan via Accra at
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 