-- Calpers Strips LaSalle of Industrial Real Estate Portfolio, Adds GI, RREEF
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2010-12-01T20:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/calpers-strips-lasalle-of-industrial-real-estate-portfolio-job.html
The California Public Employees
Retirement System replaced  LaSalle Investment Management  as
manager of $1.96 billion of its industrial real estate, handing
the work over to GI Partners LLC and RREEF Investment GmbH.  Calpers, as the largest U.S. public pension is known, said
today in a statement that GI Partners will manage the fund’s
$1.9 billion in North American assets of CalEast Global
Logistics. RREEF will manage Calpers’ $60 million of CalEast
European industrial assets.  The fund, with investment assets of about $216 billion, is
restructuring its real estate division after the value of those
holdings fell 11 percent in the past fiscal year through June.
The Sacramento-based pension plan provides retirement benefits
to about 1.6 million people.  Stefanie Murphy, a LaSalle spokeswoman in Chicago, said the
investment manager doesn’t comment on client relationships. The
company is a unit of Chicago-based  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.   GI Partners is a Menlo Park, California-based private
equity firm. RREEF is the real estate investment-management
business of Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank AG ’s asset management
division.  The plan dropped a unit of  BlackRock Inc.  in October as the
manager of its $1 billion of holdings in residential apartment
buildings. Calpers took that step after it was forced to write
off a $500 million investment with BlackRock in New York City’s
Stuyvesant Town-Peter Cooper Village through a partnership with
Tishman Speyer Properties LP.  Calpers also wrote off a $970 million investment in the
past fiscal year tied to the Newhall Ranch project north of Los
Angeles. The developer, LandSource Communities Development LLC,
entered Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization after failing to
restructure debts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael B. Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 