-- Cameron Backs King as WikiLeaks Cites BOE Chief's Concern on Inexperience
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2010-12-01T18:03:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/cameron-says-king-doing-good-job-as-wikileaks-cites-claim-of-inexperience.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  backed
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  today after WikiLeaks
published a cable by the U.S. ambassador citing the central bank
chief’s concerns that the U.K. premier lacked experience.  Cameron “thinks he’s doing a good job,” his spokesman,
 Steve Field , told reporters today in London. “The issue of
confidence simply does not arise. My experience is the Bank of
England governor makes lots of statements on economic policy.
That’s what you’d expect.”  The support for King, 62, caps a week of focus on the
governor’s role in Britain’s political system. Policy maker  Adam Posen  said on Nov. 25 he was “uncomfortable” with the bank’s
support for Cameron’s deficit reduction plans and former finance
minister  Alistair Darling  cautioned the bank this week against
getting too close to any political party. Former central bank
policy maker  David Blanchflower  today called on King to quit.  U.S. Ambassador  Louis Susman  wrote to Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  that in a Feb. 16 meeting with the governor,
before the U.K. election in May, “King expressed great concern
about Conservative leaders’ lack of experience,” the Guardian
reported on its website yesterday, publishing the memo obtained
by the WikiLeaks website. Cameron was leader of the opposition
at the time.  A Bank of England spokesman said in a telephone interview
today that the governor has a very effective working
relationship with both the prime minister and Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne .  Confidential Cable  King “opined that party leader David Cameron and Shadow
Chancellor George Osborne have not fully grasped the pressures
they will face from different groups when attempting to cut
spending,” the Guardian cited Susman’s confidential diplomatic
cable as saying.  Before the election, King lobbied publicly for a
“credible” plan to curb the U.K.’s  biggest peacetime deficit .
On May 12, after Cameron’s Conservatives formed their coalition
with the Liberal Democrats, the governor said he was “very
pleased” with the new government’s budget-cutting proposals.  Posen told a panel of lawmakers led by Conservative  Andrew Tyrie  that he was uncomfortable with the central bank’s backing
of government spending cuts in its Inflation Report in May. He
said the support was “too political, too much of a statement.”  “The bank must think long and hard about what it says,”
Darling wrote in the Financial Times on Nov. 29. “To become
identified with one political party would be fatal to its
reputation. It is imperative that the independence of the bank
remain absolute.”  Bank’s Autonomy  The central bank won autonomy in setting monetary policy in
1997. Bank and government officials tended to refrain since then
from commenting on each others’ policies. The bank’s authority
has become entangled with government funding plans since policy
makers began a program in March last year to buy gilts to stoke
economic recovery.  Blanchflower, who was on the bank’s rate-setting panel from
June 2006 to May 2009, wrote today on the  Guardian’s website 
that King should resign over his remarks on the public finances.
The Bank of England spokesman declined to comment on the
remarks.  “It’s the compromise of the independence of Bank of
England that’s the issue,” Blanchflower, who is a columnist for
Bloomberg News, said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “It’s
been an ongoing issue for some time, and I think this is the
final straw.”  When Blanchflower was on the Monetary Policy Committee,
“we were told very sensibly that we should stay out of party
political issues,” he said. “That advice was given directly to
me by the governor himself, so it’s rather a surprise that he
doesn’t follow that advice.”  Were politicians from opposing parties to seek the
governor’s opinion, “it’s very hard for him to give them advice
that they would trust,” Blanchflower said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling in Paris at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  