-- CFTC Refers Forged Comment Letters to Justice Department
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2010-12-01T17:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/cftc-refers-forged-comment-letters-on-trading-rule-to-justice-department.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission has referred forged comment letters it received on a
proposed derivatives trading rule to the Justice Department,
CFTC chairman  Gary Gensler  said today.  A Boston-based public relations firm, the Dewey Square
Group, confirmed yesterday that it had been hired to send
comment letters to regulators on behalf of a client it wouldn’t
identify. The firm said it didn’t know that the letters were
fraudulent and blamed a subcontractor, Little Rock, Arkansas-
based Goggans Inc.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. was among the financial companies
that lobbied Congress on the issue raised in the letters,
ownership of derivatives clearinghouses, during the debate over
the Dodd-Frank financial regulatory overhaul last year. Nasdaq’s
chief spokesman said yesterday that the company would have no
comment on whether it had hired Dewey Square.  Bloomberg News reported Nov. 29 that forged comment letters
purportedly from an  H.J. Heinz  Co. executive, a Burger King Co.
franchise and at least five other Arkansas-based officials or
businesses were sent to the CFTC.  “We have removed the identified letters from the comment
files and have referred the matter to the Justice Department,”
Gensler said in remarks prepared for a meeting of the commission
today. “We are working to ensure the integrity of the
process.”  False Statements Act  The letters violate the federal False Statements Act, said
Ronald M. Jacobs, an attorney at  Venable LLP . The act makes it a
felony to send false statements to regulators.  “It would pretty clearly apply to a forged comment letter
to a government agency, and so there are fines and prison terms
that could be associated with that crime,” Jacobs said.  Dewey Square Group ran a multistate grassroots advocacy
campaign and hired Goggans to help build support,  Ginny Terzano ,
principal of Dewey Square, said yesterday. Dewey Square hired
Goggans between the middle of October and the middle of
November, she said.  “Dewey Square had no reason whatsoever to believe that the
letters were not authentic and had no knowledge that they were
in fact unauthorized until questions were raised in media
accounts,” Terzano said in a statement.  The forged letters were sent by a contractor for Goggans,
said Miles Goggans, the firm’s founder.  ‘Cartels’  The fraudulent letters to the CFTC were critical of banks
for their “cartel-like control” of the $583 trillion swaps
market. The letters were in response to a CFTC proposal to limit
conflicts of interest in clearinghouses and trading platforms in
the swaps market. Dewey Square said some letters also were sent
to the Securities and Exchange Commission, which is considering
similar rules.  Nasdaq, which is a majority owner of a swap clearinghouse,
International Derivatives Clearing Group LLC, hired  Michael Oxley , former chairman of the House Financial Services
Committee, in November 2009 to lobby on legislation sponsored by
Representative  Stephen Lynch , a Massachusetts Democrat, to cap
ownership stakes in clearinghouses, according to congressional
records.  Michael Greenberger, a University of Maryland law professor
and former CFTC official, said Nasdaq made it clear during the
debate over Dodd-Frank that it wanted to see limits on banks’
ownership of clearinghouses.  ‘Big Financial Question’  “They clearly were in favor of a more free and open control
of these institutions,” Greenberger said. “This is a very big
financial question as to who is going to claim victory in the
fight over the way Dodd-Frank will be implemented.”  Nasdaq company declined to discuss whether it had hired
Dewey Square. “We have no comment on this,”  Frank De Maria ,
senior vice president of corporate communications at Nasdaq,
said in an e-mail yesterday.  Terzano said in an interview that Dewey Square does not
disclose its list of clients. “Dewey Square works for many
coalitions, nonprofits, businesses and organizations,” she
said.  In a separate statement, Goggans said he had been unaware
of the forgeries.  “This action was the sole doing of a subcontractor of mine
who has worked for me only this past year,” Goggans said. “I
deeply regret what this has done to these Arkansas businesses
and individuals, and deeply regret that this inexcusable conduct
occurred in the course of work I performed for Dewey Square, a
firm that has the highest standards of professionalism and
ethics.”  Former Senate Aide  According to his website, Goggans was an aide to former
Arkansas Senator  David Pryor , a Democrat, working on agriculture
issues. Goggans’s site includes a photo of him standing next to
Pryor’s son, incumbent Arkansas Senator  Mark Pryor , in hunting
gear at what is described as an east Arkansas dove hunt.  The site says Goggans has been lobbying since 1993. “A
single word describes our attitude about relationships and our
success,” the site says. “Trust.”  The fraudulent letters were among more than 150 comments
sent to the CFTC on the swaps clearinghouse proposal, which
stems from the Dodd-Frank finance-regulatory overhaul enacted in
July.  Identical Language  The letters contained nearly identical language and
included signatures from Arkansas public officials, including
Dallas County Sheriff Donny Ford and Washington County Judge
Marilyn Edwards.  Edwards has turned the matter over to the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, said George Butler, the civil attorney for
Washington County. Butler said falsifying letters from a public
official is a felony under Arkansas state law.  “It does appear to constitute forgery,” he said.  Political campaigns, public relations firms and consultants
sometimes use form letters to generate apparent grassroots
support for their points of view from individuals, small
businesses and citizen groups.  A case of fraudulent letters surfaced a year ago during the
debate over energy and climate change legislation. U.S.
Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat, said at
a hearing on Oct. 29, 2009, that his investigators found more
than a dozen forged letters sent to U.S. lawmakers as part of a
campaign run by the Washington-based political consulting firm
Bonner & Associates, under contract with the American Coalition
for Clean Coal Electricity.  Legal Exemption  No charges have been filed in the matter. Jacobs, who
advised the ACCCE at the time, said the False Statements Act
exempts letters sent to Congress.  The derivatives rule in question was proposed in October by
CFTC commissioners, who requested public comments by Nov. 17.
The CFTC must complete a rulemaking by Jan. 14.  Derivatives are financial contracts whose value is derived
from stocks, bonds, loans, currencies and commodities, or linked
to specific events such as changes in interest rates or the
weather.  The Dodd-Frank law aims to move over-the-counter swaps
trades to clearinghouses, in order to reduce risk in the
financial system by requiring parties to post collateral. The
law directs regulators to write rules for the clearinghouses to
limit conflicts of interest.  Restricted Companies  The CFTC’s proposed regulation would allow clearinghouses
to choose between two types of ownership restrictions. Under the
first, there would be a 20 percent cap on a clearinghouse
member’s equity stake or voting control and a 40 percent cap on
the collective stake that members and restricted non-member
companies could hold in one clearinghouse.  The restricted companies would include bank holding
companies with at least $50 billion in assets, non-bank
financial companies supervised by the Federal Reserve, swap
dealers, major swap users and their affiliates.  The second option would impose a 5 percent cap on the
ownership stake and control any clearinghouse member or non-
member could have. The second option wouldn’t include an
aggregate cap.  The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association,
which represents banks, securities firms and other companies,
said in a Nov. 12 comment letter to the CFTC and the SEC that it
does not believe there is a requirement in the law for
regulators to impose aggregate ownership limits.  ‘Beyond What Is Necessary’  The proposed regulations “go beyond what is necessary to
effectively mitigate conflicts of interest, and would have the
effects of limiting access to necessary capital and stifling
innovation,” the association said in the letter.  Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News, intends to register
as a swap execution facility,  Ben Macdonald , global head of
fixed income at Bloomberg LP, said in a Nov. 17 comment letter
to the CFTC on the proposed regulation. The Bloomberg LP letter
doesn’t comment specifically about the proposed ownership limits
for clearinghouses.  The seven forged public comment letters identified by
Bloomberg News oppose the second part of the proposal.  To contact the reporters on this story: Silla Brush in
Washington at   sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
 Clea Benson  in Washington at 
 Cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Lawrence
Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  