-- Chavez Vows to Lead Effort to Replace Homes Lost to Venezuela's Flooding
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2010-12-01T23:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/chavez-says-homeless-can-stay-in-presidential-palace-correct-.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  said
he would personally take charge of making sure Venezuelans who
have been made homeless by torrential rains would receive a
proper home.  “You can call this Plan Chavez,” he said in comments
carried on state television as he visited an emergency shelter
set up for displaced people in Caracas’s military fort. “I am
putting my name and life on this plan.”  Chavez today received 60 people whose homes were destroyed
by landslides and invited them to stay in the Miraflores
presidential palace for a year as they await homes.  The self-declared socialist revolutionary called for other
public buildings to be used to shelter families from the rains
that have left 25 people dead and 5,600 displaced. A further
56,000 people have suffered losses, and harvests have been
damaged across the country.  “These people shouldn’t leave here until they have their
own apartment,” Chavez said on state television today. “You
won’t leave here for another year.”  Chavez said he had ordered an adjacent palace, the vice
presidential offices and  state television  headquarters to
receive more families for a few days.  Venezuela has been battered by weather this year after a
severe drought led to electricity rationing as water levels in
reservoirs behind hydroelectric dams dropped. The country is now
in the grip of a La Nina weather cycle, which brings heavy rains
to northeastern South America.  Chavez has declared a state of emergency in the capital
Caracas, and the states of Miranda, Falcon and Vargas. He also
closed schools in half of the country until Dec. 6.  Vegetable Crops  Rains have destroyed vegetable crops in the South American
nation and the government may import food from Colombia to
supply the market through the holiday season, Vice President
 Elias Jaua  said today on state television.  Corn, rice and coffee harvests were unaffected by the
storms, he said. The Agriculture Ministry continues to evaluate
damage to cacao and plantain farms in Miranda state, according
to Jaua.  Venezuela, which has the highest inflation rate of 78
countries tracked by Bloomberg, may see consumer prices surge as
damaged crops affect food supplies,  Alejandro Grisanti , an
economist at Barclays Capital in New York said in a phone
interview.  “There should be an inflationary impact from the rains as
shortages push up prices in the short term,” Grisanti said.
“We’ll have to wait to evaluate the overall damage and see if
there will be any effect on growth.”  Rationing  The electricity rationing earlier this year hurt
manufacturing and output at the country’s largest steel mill,
deepening the country’s  recession  that has seen gross domestic
product contract for six consecutive quarters.  Petroleos de Venezuela SA  repaired units at the 310,000-
barrel-a-day Cardon refinery at the Paraguana complex and is
beginning to restart operations after an electrical storm halted
refining on Nov. 29, the company said today in a statement on
its website.  The refinery won’t return to full service until as late as
Dec. 9, PDVSA said on Nov. 29.  While Caracas’s international airport remains open, the
country’s largest port in Puerto Cabello is running at reduced
capacity and highway transport to distribute imported goods is
delayed because of blocked roads, Emilia Peraza, a director at
the  Consecomercio  trade chamber, said.  Mudslides north of Caracas killed hundreds of people in
December 1999 after torrential rains caused rivers to overflow
their banks and swept communities in Vargas state into the
Caribbean Sea.  “It would be nice for people to share some of their
yearend bonuses as a donation and to do volunteer work,” Chavez
said, in reference to aid efforts. “We need to pull out all of
the love for our people who have been abandoned by capitalism
during 100 years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Charlie Devereux  in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  