-- China's Manufacturing Expands Faster Than Forecast as PMI Advances to 55.2
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-01T08:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/china-s-manufacturing-expands-faster-than-forecast-as-pmi-advances-to-55-2.html
China’s  manufacturing  grew at a
faster pace for a fourth straight month in November, indicating
the economy can withstand higher interest rates as price
pressures escalate.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to 55.2 from 54.7 in
October, China’s logistics federation said on its website today.
That was more than the 54.8 median estimate of 14 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. A PMI released by HSBC Holdings Plc
also jumped.  Today’s  reports  showed input prices surging, reinforcing
the case for the central bank to boost borrowing costs again
after it lagged behind counterparts from Malaysia to South Korea.
Concern that monetary tightening will hamper corporate profit
growth spurred an 8 percent sell-off in China’s benchmark stock
index in the past month.  “The risk of a sharp growth deceleration has abated, but
all signs are suggesting that inflation may surprise on the
upside,” said  Tao Dong , a Credit Suisse AG economist in Hong
Kong. He called input-price data “alarming.”  The logistics federation’s PMI showed the strongest reading
in seven months, while the measure released by HSBC and Markit
Economics was at an eight-month high of 55.3.  The  Shanghai Composite Index  closed 0.1 percent higher,
rising for the first day in four.  Strength in Asia  The Chinese picture of stronger manufacturing and climbing
prices was repeated across Asia in reports released today by
HSBC and Markit for India, South Korea and Taiwan.  India needs to keep tightening monetary policy, HSBC
economist  Leif Eskesen  said, commenting on PMI data showing the
nation’s fastest manufacturing growth in six months. Taiwan had
its first expansion in four months and South Korea, too,
switched from a contraction.  In contrast, an Australian measure slid, a report by the
Australian Industry Group and PricewaterhouseCoopers showed
today. In the U.S., manufacturing growth likely slipped from a
five-month high, according to economists’ median estimate ahead
of today’s release of the Institute for Supply Management’s
factory index.  The Chinese reports bolstered economists’ forecasts for
higher rates. Credit Suisse said today that an increase is
likely to come around Dec. 13, when the government will announce
the latest price data.  Surging Prices  In October, the Chinese  central bank  pushed the one-year
lending rate to 5.56 percent, the first increase since 2007. In
comparison, South Korea has moved twice this year, Malaysia
three times and India six.  Ben Simpfendorfer , an economist for Royal Bank of Scotland
Plc, said that rising inventories shown in today’s data may
signal that companies will end restocking, easing producer-price
pressures and causing a “modest” slowdown in economic growth
in the first quarter.  The logistics federation’s index of input costs rose to
73.5, the highest level since June 2008. The HSBC report showed
that manufacturers increased output prices by the most since
data began in 2004.  Cement prices have climbed to a record, the state-run China
Daily reported today. Consumer prices may have climbed 4.8
percent in November after October’s 4.4 percent gain, which was
the biggest in 25 months, according to China International
Capital Corp.  Slowing Growth  McDonald’s Corp. , the world’s largest restaurant chain,
increased prices in China on Nov. 17 to offset rising costs.
Kweichow Moutai Co., China’s biggest liquor maker by market
value, may raise prices by as much as 24 percent this month,
according to a report by Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.  Zhang Liqun , a senior researcher at the State Council’s
Development Research Center, said that while PMI data shows an
“improved economic climate,” the nation’s expansion will
continue to moderate. Leaders meeting in Beijing later this
month to set economic policy will gauge the risk of the debt
crisis in Europe, China’s biggest market, cutting export demand.  Bank of America-Merrill Lynch said today’s data supported
its forecasts for the Chinese economy to expand at a 9.3 percent
annual pace this quarter and 10.3 percent for the full year.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said export orders and “continued
strength” in credit and money-supply growth even after
tightening measures may have bolstered both PMIs.  Wen’s Campaign  Premier  Wen Jiabao  announced Nov. 17 a package of measures
to counter inflation, from the threat of price caps for “daily
necessities” to pledges to maintain the food supply by selling
state reserves. Chinese futures for commodities including cotton,
sugar, rice and natural rubber have climbed to records in the
past two months.  The government’s campaign to rein in money supply and cool
prices also included two reserve-ratio increases for lenders
last month, which drained cash from the financial system.  At the same time, the central bank has limited increases in
the yuan that could help to counter  inflation . While officials
allowed appreciation of about 1.8 percent against the dollar in
September, since then gains have been about 0.3 percent.  Nomura Holdings Inc. said this week that China is in “a
solid growth phase” even as inflation concerns rise. Citigroup
Inc. said that while inflation, mainly driven by food and global
 commodity  costs, is “a critical policy worry,” the economy is
not overheating as it did in 2007-08.  Cotton, Steel  The National Development and Reform Commission said
yesterday that nationwide price controls aren’t needed yet.  In the PMI surveys, purchasing managers cited price gains
in agricultural goods, cotton and raw materials including fuel
and steel. Spot prices of power-station coal at Qinhuangdao port,
a Chinese benchmark, rose to a two-year high this week.  Manufacturing growth accelerated even amid a diesel
shortage and shutdowns at steelmakers and aluminum smelters as a
result of a government energy-efficiency campaign. Officials are
also trying to cool the real-estate market.  Economic growth  slowed to a 9.6 percent annual pace in the
third quarter from 11.9 percent in the first three months of
this year. Even as the expansion moderates, China is set to
overtake Japan this year to become the world’s second-biggest
economy.  The government-backed PMI, released by the Beijing-based
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing and the National
Bureau of Statistics, covers more than 820 companies in 20
industries, including energy, metallurgy, textiles, automobiles
and electronics. The HSBC survey covers more than 430 firms.  -- Li Yanping ,  Zheng Lifei ,  Nerys Avery . With assistance from
William Bi, Baizhen Chua,  Jay Wang  and  Marco Lui . Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Ken McCallum .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net ;
Li Yanping in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  