-- China's Gree May Build U.S. Air-Conditioner Factory to Challenge Carrier
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-02T08:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/china-s-gree-may-build-u-s-air-conditioner-factory-to-challenge-carrier.html
Gree Electric Appliances Inc. ,
China’s largest air-conditioner maker, may build a U.S. plant to
raise its international profile and compete against  United
Technologies Corp. ’s Carrier unit.  Gree , which made the cooling units for some stadiums in
this year’s World Cup soccer tournament in South Africa, makes
its products in China, Brazil, Pakistan and Vietnam. It’s
conducting studies and may set up a factory in the U.S. within
three years as  sales  rise, Gree President  Dong Mingzhu  said.  “Many Chinese companies are afraid of setting up factories
in the U.S.,” Dong, 56, said in a Nov. 28 interview at the
company’s headquarters in the southern Chinese city of Zhuhai.
“As a company with high-end technology, we think it’s worth
exploring if we want to become a global company.”  Former leader  Deng Xiaoping ’s abandonment of hard-line
communism for market reforms in 1978 fueled more than three
decades of export-led, 10 percent annual growth that turned
China into the world’s largest exporter. Now, Chinese companies
are expanding overseas to tap new markets as competition
intensifies at home.  “If  Gree  wishes to continue its growth, they will have to
expand into markets outside China,” said Chen Jun, a Beijing-
based analyst at research company All View Consulting.
“Countries in North America and Europe will generate higher
profit when their economies recover from recession.”  Outside China  Haier Group Corp. , the Qingdao, China-based maker of
washing machines and refrigerators, set up a factory in South
Carolina in 1999. The closely held appliance maker bought 20
percent of New Zealand’s Fisher & Paykel Appliances Holdings
Ltd. last year and has said demand in Japan, its third-biggest
market, will help sustain earnings expansion.  Gree  fell 1.1 percent to 17.78 yuan at the 3 p.m. close in
Shenzhen, after earlier gaining as much as 2 percent. The stock
has declined 7.8 percent this year, compared with a 13 percent
drop for the benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index .  GD Midea Holding Co. , a Foshan, southern China-based maker
of household appliances, has gained 5.4 percent in the same
period, while  Qingdao Haier Co. , a Shanghai-traded unit of Haier
Group, advanced 3 percent.  U.S. sales for  Gree  have risen an average 20 percent over
the past five years, Dong said in Zhuhai, a city in Guangdong
province, the manufacturing hub that’s adjacent to Hong Kong.  ‘Certain Level’  “Demand in the United States has reached a certain
level,” said  Dong , named among China’s 40 most influential
people in 2009 by Businessweek. “Although manufacturing costs
are relatively high in the U.S., especially labor costs, we
believe there are other favorable factors, such as policy and
infrastructure.”  Gree ’s sales have expanded for five consecutive quarters,
surging 81 percent in the three months ended September,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales had declined for
three quarters through June 2009.  Overseas sales accounted for 15 percent of total revenue in
2009, compared with 24 percent in the previous year, according
to Bloomberg data.  In the U.S.,  Gree  will compete against Carrier, the world’s
largest maker of air conditioners with 2009 sales of $11.4
billion. Osaka-based  Daikin Industries Ltd. , the world’s second-
largest air-conditioner maker, got more than 60 percent of its
sales last fiscal year from outside Japan, with the Americas
region accounting for 11 percent of total revenue.  Largest Distributor  Gree, which sold shares to the public in Shenzhen in 1996,
is the biggest distributor of air conditioners in China with
27.5 percent of the market, according to research by Euromonitor
International. It’s followed by  GD Midea  with 21 percent and
Haier with 11.1 percent.  Third-quarter net income surged 73 percent from a year
earlier to 1.32 billion yuan ($198 million) at Gree, boosted by
government subsidies to consumers and increased exports, the
company said Oct. 21. Sales reached 44.2 billion yuan in the
first nine months, exceeding the total for 2009.  Fourth-quarter results would be “even better,” said Dong,
who joined  Gree  in 1990 as a sales manager, without elaborating.
Sales of central air conditioners, used mainly in commercial and
office buildings and which provide wider margins than household
models, may account for 50 percent of total sales in three to
four years from the current 15 percent, she said.  “I think  Gree  will see its name shine not just in China,
but also globally in five years,” said Dong.  -- Michael Wei . Editors:  Chua Kong Ho ,  Frank Longid ,  Lena Lee .  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Wei in Beijing at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  