-- China Coal-Bed Gas Costlier Than U.S. to Drill, Standard Chartered Says
-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 2010-12-01T09:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/china-coal-bed-gas-costlier-than-u-s-to-drill-standard-chartered-says.html
Extracting unconventional gas from
coal seams in China is likely to be more expensive than in the
U.S. because alternative drilling techniques are required,
according to Standard Chartered Plc.  Companies must spend more to extract gas from China’s coal
seams because they need to drill horizontal wells, costing about
$2.3 million each, in a larger area and through dense deposits,
 Han Pin Hsi , a Singapore-based analyst, said in a report dated
yesterday. U.S. explorers use vertical wells, costing about one-
third of horizontal ones, with the fuel concentrated in deeper,
smaller areas at a higher permeability.  “Due to geological differences, current economically
viable vertical-well technology used in the U.S. is unsuitable
for deployment in China,” Han said. “High permeability is
required for gas to flow to the surface and low permeability in
the China coal bed results in higher extraction costs.”  A typical coal-bed methane project in China, after
including state incentives, should be able to generate an
internal rate of return of 17 percent, according to the report.
That compares with a cost of capital of about 12 percent.  To calculate the return, the bank used a finding and
development cost of $1.27 per thousand cubic feet, a selling
price of $6.55, and an estimate for drilling a horizontal well
at $2 million, it said.  Different Course  China will take a different course from the U.S. in
unconventional gas development because of “unique” geological,
technical and commercial reasons,  Gavin Thompson , director of
China gas research at Wood Mackenzie Ltd., said last month.  The fuel source may account for more than a quarter of the
China’s gas supplies by 2030, China National Petroleum Corp.
said Nov. 19.  Gas trapped in shale, coal seams and impermeable sandstone,
collectively known as unconventional gas, boosted proved
reserves in the U.S. last year to the highest level since 1971,
the Energy Department said yesterday. Reserves increased 11
percent to 284 trillion cubic feet, the department said in a
report.  -Editors: Alexander Kwiatkowski, Clyde Russell  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dinakar Sethuraman in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 