-- Lau’s $16.7 Million Birds Lift Christie’s to Record
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2010-12-02T14:50:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/chinese-estates-chairman-lau-buys-imperial-censers-for-hk-129-5-million.html
Hong Kong billionaire  Joseph Lau ’s
HK$129.5 million ($16.7 million) purchase of two pairs of
imperial crane statues lifted  Christie’s International  to its
highest Hong Kong auctions total, driven by Chinese buyers.  Christie’s sold HK$3.18 billion of art and collectibles
over a week, including yesterday’s HK$1.13 billion auction of
Chinese antiques. The London-based company’s total in Hong Kong
kept it just ahead in the region from  Sotheby’s , which held its
own record HK$3.09 billion sale in the city in October.  “There are some very aggressive bids out there,” said
Johnny Chong, 50, a Hong Kong-based collector who paid HK$1.2
million for a Qing dynasty imperial edict with a HK$60,000
presale top estimate on behalf of a mainland collector. “Prices
are mostly at the high end of expectations. But if you see
something you really want, you just have to bite the bullet.”  The autumn sales by the two biggest auction houses in Hong
Kong, the world’s third-biggest auction market after New York
and London, show the strength of demand for luxury items in
Asia.  London-based Christie’s had estimated the week’s sale at
the  Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre  would total more
than HK$1.7 billion. The company had predicted yesterday’s sale
would fetch at least HK$555 million.  Lau’s imperial cloisonne enamel double crane censers, or
incense burners, were estimated to sell for as much as HK$120
million. They are from the Fonthill House collection of Alfred
Morrison, a 19th-century English collector of Chinese art,
according to Christie’s.  Warhol Purchase  Lau, who controls  Chinese Estates Holdings Ltd.  and had a
$6 billion fortune in February according to Forbes Asia, paid
$17.4 million in November 2006 for “Mao,” one of  Andy Warhol ’s
portraits of the late Chinese leader  Mao Zedong , a record at
that time.  The five-feet-high imperial cranes Lau bought yesterday may
have been commissioned by Qing Dynasty Emperor Qianlong while he
was still a prince as a birthday gift for his father, according
to  Christie’s .  The week of luxury buying ended today with a daylong sale
of watches that added HK$103 million to Christie’s total,
compared with an estimate of HK$70 million. The most expensive
timepiece was a Patek Philippe minute repeater that sold for
HK$5.5 million to an Asian collector, Christie’s said.  White Moonflask  Yesterday’s other highlights included a pink-enameled blue
and white moonflask from the Qianlong period that sold for
HK$123.9 million, while a yellow-ground famille rose vase from
the Jiaqing period (1796-1820) fetched HK$90.3 million. Both
items went for more than three times their top estimates. About
85 percent of the lots sold yesterday went to buyers from China,
Hong Kong or Taiwan, Christie’s said.  “If China’s economy keeps growing at its current pace,
antique prices will only go up over the next 30 years,” said
Chong, who had kept his paddle up throughout the bidding battle
for the Jiaqing-period scroll.  Chong said the buyer will donate the scroll, together with
a bronze seal he bought at yesterday’s auction for HK$47,500, to
a museum in Liaocheng in his home province of Shandong.  The Nov. 30 sale of classical and modern Chinese paintings,
including works by Fu Baoshi and  Zhang Daqian , brought in HK$669
million, 91 percent more than a year earlier and more than
double the company’s estimate of HK$260 million.  Pink Diamond  The day before, Christie’s jewelry department all wore
something pink for the HK$179.9 million sale of a 14.23 carat
pink diamond, the highest auction price for a diamond in Asia.
The jewelry sale was Christie’s biggest worldwide, totaling
HK$612.6 million.  That followed three days of sales of Asian contemporary and
Chinese 20th-century art that broke more than a dozen artist
records, including those for Bali-based German painter Walter
Spies and Chinese expatriate Sanyu, whose “Potted Chrysanthemum
in a Blue and White Jardiniere” fetched HK$53.3 million.  Christie’s art sales include a buyer’s premium of 25
percent on the first HK$400,000, 20 percent up to and including
HK$8 million, and 12 percent of the remainder. Estimates are for
the hammer price, which doesn’t include the commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
 Sonja Cheung  in Hong Kong at 
 scheung58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 