-- China's Opposition Stalls UN Talks on Condemning North Korea Nuclear Work
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-12-01T19:51:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/china-s-opposition-stalls-un-talks-on-condemning-north-korea-nuclear-work.html
China’s opposition has stalled
negotiations on a statement by the  United Nations  Security
Council condemning North Korea’s expanding nuclear program and
its attack on a South Korean island, Japan’s ambassador said.  “The Chinese have always been resistant” to directly
accusing North Korea of wrongdoing, Ambassador  Tsuneo Nishida 
said in an interview. “This is always the argument.”  As the Security Council remains deadlocked, President
 Barack Obama ’s top military adviser called on China to use its
influence to persuade North Korea to end its “deeply
destabilizing behavior” and the U.S. prepared for high-level
talks next week with South Korea and Japan.  The diplomatic efforts show the challenges the U.S. and its
allies confront in easing tensions in Korea without China’s
intervention. “China shares a relationship with the North that
is not matched anywhere else in the world,” Admiral  Michael Mullen , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said at the
Center for American Progress in Washington today.  “Given the aid and support China has provided to North
Korea over the years, there’s significant leverage they could
apply to avoiding escalation and improving this troubling
situation,” Mullen said.  Foreign Ministers Meet  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  will meet in Washington
on Dec. 6 with South Korean Foreign Minister  Kim Sung Hwan  and
Japanese Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara , the State Department
announced. The meeting “demonstrates the extraordinarily close
coordination” among the countries and their “commitment to
security on the Korean peninsula and stability in the region,”
the State Department said.  Wu Bangguo , chairman of the Standing Committee of China’s
National People’s Congress, and  Choe Tae Bok , head of North
Korea’s Supreme People’s Assembly, met in Beijing today, China’s
official Xinhua News Agency reported. Wu and Choe, who have met
three times this year, pledged to “cement legislative ties”
between the two countries, Xinhua said, without mentioning the
current tensions.  While Nishida said he didn’t “dare to say” talks in New
York were dead on having the Security Council’s 15 member
governments collectively respond to North Korea’s actions,
British and Russian envoys said an accord wasn’t likely.  “It doesn’t look like it,” Russian Ambassador  Vitaly Churkin  said, citing “some problems” in private bilateral
talks that followed North Korea’s announcement of a new plant to
enrich uranium and a Nov. 23 artillery attack on the South
Korean island.  No ‘Weak Response’  “We are not prepared to have a weak response by the
council,” U.K. Ambassador  Mark Lyall Grant  said. “There are
serious violations on the nuclear side, and the shelling should
be condemned if we are to make any statement at all.  “It is disappointing because the Security Council ought to
be in a position to respond to these sorts of incidents that are
clearly a threat to international peace and security,” Lyall
Grant said. “But the  Security Council  operates by unanimity
when it comes to these kinds of statements and there wasn’t
any.”  It took the Security Council almost four months earlier
this year to agree on a response to the March 26 sinking of the
South Korea warship Cheonan that didn’t explicitly condemn North
Korea. The statement condemned the attack without accusing North
Korea and took “note” of North Korea’s denial of complicity.  A multinational investigation reported in June that a North
Korean-made torpedo caused the sinking, killing 46 sailors.  ‘Stakes Are Going Up’  “They sank a ship, killed 46 sailors, they killed four
Korean citizens the other day,” and showed foreign experts a
uranium enrichment facility, Mullen said. “The ante is going up
and I think the stakes are going up, and I think the stakes in
terms of stability in the region are going up.”  Yang Tao, political director of China’s mission to the UN,
said his government was still considering proposed language of a
Security Council statement on the latest incidents and that
consultations haven’t ended.  Yang said in an interview yesterday that China favors
handling tensions on the Korean peninsula in the format of the
six-party talks that include China, Japan, South Korea, North
Korea, Russia and the U.S. China has called for an “emergency”
meeting of that group.  The U.S., Japan and South Korea haven’t agreed to China’s
proposal, saying they want to see more concrete action by North
Korea to dismantle its nuclear program before restarting the
talks. Churkin said Russia was open to the six-party proposal,
calling it a “positive” initiative by China.  “Beijing’s call for consultations will not substitute for
action,” Mullen said. “I do not believe we should continue to
reward North Korea’s provocative and deeply destabilizing
behavior with bargaining or new incentives.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  