-- China's Stocks Rise as Manufacturing Growth Signals Economy's Resilience
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-01T07:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/china-s-stocks-fluctuate-as-manufacturing-growth-fuels-tightening-concerns.html
China’s stocks  rose for the first
time in four days as faster-than-estimated manufacturing growth
signaled tightening policies haven’t curbed economic growth.  Huaneng Power International Inc. surged the most in six
weeks, leading gains for electricity producers, after the
Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to 55.2 in November from 54.7 in
October. China Vanke Co. rose 1.1 percent as home prices
rebounded.  Harbin Pharmaceutical Group Co.  and  Shanghai Fosun
Pharmaceutical (Group) Co.  paced declines for health-care stocks
on speculation cuts in drug prices may hurt earnings.  “The manufacturing number shows the economy is still
healthy,” said Deng Changrong, a strategist at Huaxi Securities
Co. in Shenzhen.  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, climbed 0.1 percent to 2,823.45 at the
3 p.m. close, with 482 stocks gaining and 380 declining. The CSI
300 Index was little changed at 3,136.02.  China’s manufacturing grew at the fastest pace in seven
months in November, indicating the economy can withstand higher
interest rates as price pressures escalate. The PMI figure was
more than the 54.8 median estimate of 14 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Huaneng Power, China’s largest electricity producer, gained
1.2 percent to 5.89 yuan. China Yangtze Power Co., the nation’s
biggest hydro dam operator, advanced 1.9 percent to 7.71 yuan.  Today’s manufacturing report also showed a measure of input
prices climbed the most since 2008, reinforcing the case for the
central bank to boost borrowing costs again after it lagged
behind counterparts from Malaysia to South Korea.  Inflation Boost  “China equities correlate positively with inflation,”
 Erwin Sanft , head of China and Hong Kong research at BNP Paribas,
said in e-mailed comments. “This relationship appears stronger
than in developed markets although it has not been tested at
high levels of inflation.”  Sanft  recommended bank and property developers, saying
large companies may benefit from further fund inflows. China
posted its largest weekly inflows in the week to Nov. 24 since
September, EPFR Global said in an e-mailed statement.  Vanke, the nation’s largest developer, added 1.1 percent to
8.22 yuan. Poly Real Estate Group Co., the second biggest,
increased 0.9 percent to 12.23 yuan. Home prices in 100 Chinese
cities rose 0.8 percent in November from a month earlier, SouFun
Holdings Ltd. said in an e-mailed statement.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the biggest
lender, increased 2.1 percent to 4.29 yuan, the first gain in
six days. China Construction Bank Corp. rose 1.7 percent to 4.70
yuan.  ‘Good’ Data  Manufacturing growth may not boost stocks as the “good”
economic data could persuade policymakers to further tighten
monetary policy to fight inflation,  Ting Lu , economist at Bank
of America-Merrill Lynch, said in a report to clients.  The People’s Bank of China raised lenders’ reserve
requirements for the fifth time this year on Nov. 19, a month
after increasing its benchmark interest rate for the first time
since 2007.  Consumer prices  in October were 4.4 percent higher
than a year earlier. The government’s full-year inflation target
is 3 percent.  China’s inflation for November likely accelerated to 4.7
percent year-on-year, which may mark the “short-term peak,”
Credit Suisse Group AG said in a report today. Inflation will
accelerate again to hit 6.2 percent mid-2011, with the year-
average forecast at 5 percent, as food, commodity and service
prices increase, economist  Dong Tao  said in the report.  The central bank will “probably” raise interest rates
around Dec. 13, when the November inflation data are scheduled
to be announced, the report said. Tao said he predicts interest
rates to increase by about 150 basis points by end-2011.  Drugmakers Drop  Two-year contracts that exchange the central bank’s  one-
year deposit rate  for a fixed payment climbed 58 basis points to
3.4 percent, the biggest monthly advance since April 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Over the past two
months Standard Chartered Plc and Credit Agricole SA doubled
projections for the number of increases in the deposit rate by
mid-2011 to four.  A gauge tracking health-care companies on the CSI 300
extended declines, falling 1.7 percent, the most among the 10
industry groups. Harbin Pharmaceutical slid 1.8 percent to 24.47
yuan. Shanghai Fosun retreated 2.2 percent to 14.20 yuan.  China is slashing the price of drugs made by Roche Holdings
AG and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. by about a third, part of
government efforts to rein in health-care costs and cool the
fastest inflation in two years.  -- Irene Shen . Editor:  Allen Wan ,  Richard Frost   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Irene Shen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3049 or
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  