-- Anglo American, Xstrata Talks to Continue at Strike-Hit Collahuasi Mine
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2010-12-02T01:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/collahuasi-copper-mine-is-far-from-wage-deal-chile-union-says.html
Wage talks between union leaders and
company representatives at Anglo  American Plc  and  Xstrata Plc’s 
Collahuasi venture will extend into a fourth day in a bid to end
a strike at the world’s third-biggest copper mine.  “Negotiations will continue tomorrow,” union President
Manuel Munoz told reporters as he left the negotiating room at a
hotel in the northern Chilean city of Iquique.  The  Collahuasi  strike became the longest recorded at a
major Chilean copper mine after surpassing a 26-day stoppage at
BHP Billiton Ltd.’s Escondida in 2006. While the company is
using non-union workers and contractors to help run the mine,
prospects of an output cut helped drive copper to a London Metal
Exchange record last month.  A third day of mediated negotiations ended today without an
agreement. Earlier workers protested in downtown Iquique,
hurling rocks at police vans and lighting fires.  “Collahuasi deeply regrets the riots in Iquique while the
negotiating team is seated at the table in search of a solution
to the strike,” Bernardita Fernandez, a company spokeswoman,
said by e-mail.  Company and union representatives returned to the
negotiating table Nov. 29 after individual negotiations failed
to garner enough acceptances under Chilean law to end the
strike. Chile’s Work Inspectorate issued a resolution last week
for talks to resume.  Tear Gas  Police in Iquique fired water cannons and tear gas today at
a group of more than 50 protestors who were dressed in the
union’s official black jackets and chanted “miners of Chile.”
Workers protested because the company continues to send non-
union staff to operate the mine, the union said on its website.  Collahuasi produced 535,000 tons of copper last year, or
3.5 percent of global output, according to Standard Bank Plc.
Global copper supply may tighten in the short term if the strike
doesn’t end soon, Commerzbank AG said in a report. The mine
continues to operate normally amid the strike, Fernandez said.  Copper for delivery in three months rose 3.3 percent to
$8,633 a metric ton in London at 12:22 p.m. New York time.  Anglo American and Xstrata each own 44 percent of
Collahuasi. A group led by  Mitsui & Co.  holds the remainder.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nathan Crooks  in Iquique at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
 Matt Craze  in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  