-- Construction Spending in U.S. Unexpectedly Climbs on Residential Projects
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-12-01T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/construction-spending-in-u-s-unexpectedly-climbs-on-residential-projects.html
Construction spending in the U.S.
unexpectedly rose in October, lifted by the biggest gain in
residential projects in six months.  The 0.7 percent  increase  matched the previous month’s gain
and brought spending to $802.3 billion, Commerce Department
figures showed today in Washington. The  median  estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg survey called for a 0.3 percent drop.  Non-residential construction is still getting some help from
ongoing projects such as new roads and bridges using funds
available as part of the federal stimulus effort. Homebuilding is
likely to face more hurdles as sales and prices plunged following
the end of a tax credit for buyers.  “Projects that form part of the fiscal stimulus have
generated increases in public construction spending,”  Paul Dales , a U.S. economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in Toronto,
said before the report. Even so, “residential and commercial
real estate investment is unlikely to contribute to GDP growth on
a sustained basis for some time yet.”  The median forecast was based on 53 projections in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Estimates  ranged from a drop of 1 percent
to an increase of 1.2 percent. September’s gain was revised up
from a previously reported 0.5 percent increase.  Construction spending decreased 9.3 percent in the 12 months
ended in October.  Private construction spending advanced 0.8 percent.
Homebuilding outlays increased 2.5 percent, while private non-
residential projects fell 0.7 percent, led by a plunge in factory
construction.  Government Spending  Spending on public construction rose 0.4 percent from the
prior month. Federal spending increased 0.9 percent to $33
billion, the highest level since records began in 1993.  Lower prices and borrowing costs near a record low have
failed to prevent a slump in home sales since July, the month
after homebuyers were originally required to close deals in order
to get the tax incentive of as much as $8,000. Purchases of new
houses and previously-owned properties both fell in October,
reports showed last month.  Builders are pulling back. Housing  starts  in October fell to
an annual rate that was the slowest since a record low reached in
April 2009, a Commerce Department report showed on Nov. 17.
Permits, a sign of future activity, rose, signaling home
construction may not fall much further in coming months.  D.R. Horton Inc., the second-largest U.S. homebuilder by
revenue, expects 2011 to be “challenging” for the industry,
Chief Executive Officer Donald Tomnitz said on a Nov. 12 earnings
conference call.  Beazer Homes USA Inc. , an Atlanta-based builder
of homes for first-time buyers, also is cautious.  Unemployment, Foreclosures  “Sustained high unemployment levels and the overhang of
foreclosures make it very difficult to predict when and to what
extent the housing market will recover,”  Ian McCarthy , chief
executive officer of Beazer, said on a conference call with
analysts on Nov. 5.  Government agencies are under pressure to cut spending. New
Jersey Governor Chris Christie stopped construction of a Hudson
River rail tunnel he said taxpayers couldn’t afford. He canceled
the $9.8 billion tunnel, the country’s largest federally
supported infrastructure project, on Oct. 27. New Jersey already
faces a $10.5 billion budget deficit next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  