-- Copper Premium on LME Climbs to Two-Year High as Firm Dominates Stockpile
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n   a n d   J a e   H u r
-- 2010-12-01T11:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/copper-premium-on-lme-climbs-to-two-year-high-as-firm-dominates-stockpiles.html
The copper premium for immediate-
delivery on the London Metal Exchange climbed to the highest
level in more than two years as data showed one unidentified
company owned most of the stockpiles monitored by the bourse.  A company held between 50 percent and 79 percent of LME
copper stockpiles from Nov. 22 through to Nov. 29, the latest
exchange data show. The cash contract advanced to a premium of
$74 a metric ton over the benchmark three-month delivery today,
the highest level since October 2008, signaling shrinking supply
in nearby futures.  “It could be an investor holding a large position for
financial gain, or it could well be material that has been
stockpiled in readiness for a launch of an exchange-traded
fund,”  Alex Heath , head of industrial-metals trading at Royal
Bank of Canada Europe Ltd., said by phone from London today.  JPMorgan Chase & Co, BlackRock Inc. and ETF Securities Ltd.
said in October they are preparing to introduce exchange-traded
funds backed by copper, providing investors access to the metal
in the form of an equity-like product.  BlackRock is registering shares equal to 121,200 tons, the
New York-based company said in an Oct. 26 filing. The firm and
ETF Securities said LME warrants, or documents showing ownership
of stockpiles, can be used instead of physical metal.  Dwindling Supply  Inventories of copper, used in everything from laptops to
jetliners, shrank this year as demand recovered, pushing prices
to a record $8,966 a ton on Nov. 11. Global demand will outstrip
production by 250,000 tons next year, the first shortage since
2007, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc commodity
analysts led by  Nick Moore .  Stockpiles monitored by the exchange declined 29 percent
this year to 354,850 tons, the lowest level since October 2009.
Canceled warrants, or the amount booked for delivery out of the
warehouses, rose to 31,975 tons from 2,625 tons at the beginning
of this year, leaving deliverable inventories of 322,875 tons.
In October 2008, when the cash premium was about the current
level, deliverable stockpiles were below 230,000 tons.  “Given the current stockpile level, the market is
anomalously tight,”  Leon Westgate , an analyst at Standard Bank
Plc, said by phone from London. That was deterring traders from
taking bearish bets, he said. A situation where nearby contracts
are at a premium to more distant ones is known as backwardation.  Exchange Rules  “Someone appears to have been trying to squeeze the
market,”  Hwang Il Doo , a senior trader at Korea Exchange Bank
Futures Co. in Seoul, said today by phone. “This may help push
the three-month price higher.”  Backwardation traditionally attracts more inventories into
the LME warehouses as traders want to benefit from the cash
premium. “It’s not going to happen this time, as there’s not
much metal around,” said Heath.  Under  LME rules , a firm holding 50 percent to 79 percent of
the deliverable stockpiles has to lend the metal to buyers at no
more than 0.5 percent of the cash price for a day.  Liz  Milan,
managing director for LME Asia in Singapore, declined to comment.  The borrowing fee for next-day delivery, the so-called tom-
next spread, was at a discount of 50 cents per ton per day at
yesterday’s close, unchanged for the past three trading days. An
increase in the fee would indicate tightening supply.  Nickel, Aluminum  One unidentified company also held between 40 percent and
49 percent of nickel stockpiles as of Nov. 29, and another had
80 percent to 89 percent of aluminum alloy inventories, LME data
show. Stockpiles of nickel total 131,802 tons and of aluminum
alloy 72,220 tons, according to the exchange.  Last year, an unidentified firm held more than 90 percent
of tin inventories in LME warehouses during the second half of
the year, causing the cash price to trade as high as $730 a ton
over the benchmark three-month contract in September.  The three-month copper price added $134, or 1.6 percent, to
$8,494.50 a ton at 11:13 a.m. London time today, taking this
year’s advance to 15 percent.  New York copper for January delivery traded at $3.8755 a
pound today, about the same as the most-active March contract at
$3.8780. Near-dated contracts were mostly at a discount to more
distant ones on the Shanghai Futures Exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chanyaporn Chanjaroen  in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net  or;
 Jae Hur  in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 Jpoole4@bloomberg.net  