-- Corn, Soybeans Rally as China Growth May Spur Demand for U.S. Crop Exports
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2010-12-01T20:42:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/corn-soybeans-rally-as-china-growth-may-spur-demand-for-u-s-crop-exports.html
Corn futures jumped the most in six
weeks and soybeans rose to a two-week high on speculation that
China will boost imports to slow domestic food-price inflation.  Argentina expects China to agree on buying corn in the
first half of 2011, Minister of Agriculture Julian Dominguez
said. China normalized soybean-oil trade between the nations,
and the first shipment is expected to arrive in December or
January, Dominguez said. The Asian nation is the second-biggest
producer of corn and the largest importer of soybeans and
cooking oils.  “Chinese demand should increase,” said  Mark Schultz , the
chief analyst for Northstar Commodity Investment Co. in
Minneapolis. “The deals are just another sign that supplies of
food in China are getting tight.”  Corn futures for March delivery rose 22.25 cents, or 4.1
percent, to close at $5.6625 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade, the biggest gain since Oct. 20. In
November, the price fell 6.5 percent, the first drop since May.  Soybean futures for January delivery rose 40 cents, or 3.2
percent, to $12.83 a bushel. Earlier, the price reached $12.84,
the highest since Nov. 16. The commodity climbed to a 26-month
high of $13.485 on Nov. 12.  China’s moves to curb food-price inflation may not
“negatively impact” the country’s demand for grains and
oilseeds, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a report.  Demand Gains  Rising meat consumption will support prices for feed grain
and soybeans as China’s economy expands in 2011 and 2012,
Goldman said. Steps to increase domestic-crop production may not
change “China’s large import needs” because increased
urbanization will limit farm expansion, the bank said.  Improving economies in China and India, the two most-
populated countries, will support agricultural prices,  Richard Feltes , a vice president at R.J. O’Brien & Associates in
Chicago, said in a report.  China’s manufacturing grew at a faster pace for a fourth
straight month in November, indicating the economy can withstand
higher interest rates as price pressures escalate. India’s
economy grew more than economists estimated last quarter, adding
to evidence of strengthening domestic demand.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $48.6 billion in
2009, government figures show, followed by soybeans at $31.8
billion. The U.S. is the world’s biggest grower and exporter of
both crops.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 