-- Japan Likely to Scale Back Plan to Cut Corporate Taxes on Deficit Concern
-- B y   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i
-- 2010-12-01T04:33:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/corporate-tax-cut-may-be-less-than-5-points-vice-minister-igarashi-says.html
Japan may scale back a plan to cut
the  corporate tax rate  by 5 percentage points because of concern
it will increase the government’s deficit, a move that could
limit growth in companies’ profits and investment.  At this stage, even a cut of that magnitude in the
effective rate “is difficult,” Vice Finance Minister  Fumihiko Igarashi  said yesterday in Tokyo after a meeting of the
government tax panel. “We’ll consider a reduction that’s within
the scope of the revenue that can be secured.”  Japan’s effective corporate tax rate is about 40 percent,
one of the highest among Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development nations. A tax cut that isn’t large will cap
companies’ profit gains in the short term and may prompt them to
move out of Japan seeking lower costs in the longer term, said
 Naoki Iizuka , senior economist at Mizuho Securities Co.  “5 percentage points is still a very small cut -- what’s
really necessary is a cut of about 15 percentage points,” said
Iizuka. “If the government can’t manage to cut the rate by even
5 percentage points, there’s no point to pursuing this at all.”  Corporate executives including  Hiromasa Yonekura , head of
the business lobby Keidanren, have called for a tax cut to make
companies more competitive against international rivals. Slowing
global demand, sluggish exports due to a strong yen and expiring
government stimulus measures prompted companies including  Toyota
Motor Corp.  to reduce production in October.  Lost Revenue  The Finance Ministry has calculated that a 5 percentage
point company tax cut will decrease revenue by between 1.4
trillion yen to 2.1 trillion yen ($25 billion). The ministry has
pushed for measures to lower Japan’s public debt, which is about
twice the size of its annual gross domestic product.  The Trade Ministry, which has proposed a cut of around 5
points, has said that the lost revenue can be made up in coming
years. A ruling Democratic Party of Japan project team has
called for a corporate tax cut that isn’t offset by widening the
tax base, to ensure economic growth.  The Finance Ministry has proposed ending a naphtha tax
waiver and tax breaks on corporate research and development to
make up for the lost income. Trade Minister  Akihiro Ohata  said
last month he’s “firmly” opposed to taxing naphtha, saying
that other countries don’t tax it either.  Japanese companies have also been hit by more than a decade
of deflation. Price declines weigh on companies’ earnings.  Deflation End  Bank of Japan board member  Miyako Suda  said the nation
probably won’t overcome deflation in the year starting April, an
outlook that conflicts with the central bank’s forecast of
moderate inflation in the year.  “Chances of overcoming negative core  consumer prices  in
the next fiscal year aren’t high,” Suda said today in a speech
in Yamagata, northern Japan. “It will take a while to beat
deflation.”  Suda said that risks for the economy may linger as the
yen’s advance against the dollar clouds the outlook for growth.
Reports in the past week have shown  exports  rose at the slowest
pace this year and  factory production  declined for a fifth month,
evidence that points to the economic expansion weakening in the
final quarter of 2010.  “Given the strong yen and deterioration in corporate and
consumer sentiment, there’s a high risk that the temporary
weakening in the economy will be sustained,” Suda said.  Strong Yen  Exporter earnings are threatened by the yen’s strengthening
of more than 10 percent this year.  Nikon Corp. , the Japanese
maker of cameras, lenses and chip-making equipment, this month
cut its full-year operating profit and revenue forecasts, citing
a stronger yen.  Asian Development Bank President  Haruhiko Kuroda  said that
while the strong yen won’t affect exports right away because of
a time lag in the impact, it will hit company profits and
spending plans by reducing overseas earnings in yen terms.  “Yen appreciation instantly affects the profit situation
of the corporate sector,” Kuroda said today at a news
conference in Tokyo. “That would affect significantly plant and
equipment investment by the corporate sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kyoko Shimodoi  in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  