-- Crime-Plagued Camden, New Jersey, Wants Union Deal to Stem Police Firings
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-12-01T22:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/crime-plagued-camden-new-jersey-wants-union-deal-to-stem-police-firings.html
Mayor  Dana Redd  of Camden, New
Jersey, the nation’s second most-dangerous city, asked unions
for concessions to scale back her plan to eliminate 25 percent
of the workforce, including half the police department.  Redd, a Democrat in her first term, has called for firing
383 city workers -- including 180 in the police department -- to
help close a $26.5 million deficit. Council President Francisco
“Frank” Moran said the governing body has scheduled an
emergency meeting tomorrow to approve the terminations, which
are scheduled to begin Jan. 18.  As many as 58 police officers slated to be fired may be
kept on duty if unions agree to a full menu of concessions, said
City Attorney  Marc Riondino . Camden is coping with a loss of $8
million in state aid after Governor  Chris Christie  cut funding
to municipalities this fiscal year, Redd said in August.  “My door remains open to having any meaningful discussions
about concessions, including how we each can work together to
save jobs, particularly in police and fire,” Redd told
reporters today in her City Hall office. “I sleep here every
night. I grew up in this city. I am aware of what’s going on.
Unfortunately, we have fiscal realities.”  Camden, a city of about 80,000 people across the Delaware
River from Philadelphia, last month was ranked as the second-
most dangerous city by  CQ Press , a Washington-based publisher of
books and periodicals on politics and government. About one-in-
three residents live below the federal poverty limit, according
to U.S. Census data.  Civilian employees have already given up 20 percent of
their salaries through unpaid furloughs and will begin paying
more for health insurance, the mayor said.  Karl Walko, head of Council No. 10, a public-employee union
representing city civilian workers, didn’t immediately return a
phone call seeking comment. John Williamson, president of the
city’s police union, wasn’t immediately available for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 