-- Crude Oil Gains as Chinese Economic Growth Counters Europe Debt Concern
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2010-12-01T13:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/crude-oil-gains-as-chinese-economic-growth-counters-europe-debt-concern.html
Oil rose, trimming the biggest
decline in almost two weeks, on signs of accelerating growth in
China and shrinking fuel inventories in the U.S.  Futures gained as much as 1.7 percent after a report showed
Chinese manufacturing expanded at the fastest rate in seven
months in November. U.S. government data today may show oil
stockpiles declined 1.15 million barrels last week. Crude
advanced as the dollar declined for the first time in four days,
increasing the appeal of commodities to investors.  “Sentiment for oil is getting better, with U.S. data quite
supportive on the demand side and Chinese figures stronger than
expected,” said  Hannes Loacker , an analyst at Raiffeisen Bank
International AG in Vienna. “But with the possibility of
further rate hikes in China, prices will likely be capped at $90
this year.”  The January contract rose as much as $1.48 to $85.59 a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange and was at $85.47 at
1:30 p.m. London time. Brent crude for January settlement rose
as much as $1.61, or 1.9 percent, to $87.53 a barrel on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in London. Oil has risen 7.7 percent so
far this year in New York and 12 percent in London.  China’s Purchasing Managers’ Index increased to 55.2 from
54.7 in October, according to the country’s logistics federation
today. That was higher than the 54.8 median estimate of 14
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Europe’s Debt  Oil prices slumped 1.9 percent yesterday as concern mounted
that Europe’s debt crisis is spreading to countries including
Spain, Portugal and Italy. It was the biggest one-day decline
since Nov. 17. The European Union approved an 85 billion-euro
($111 billion) rescue package for Ireland Nov. 28.  The region’s debt woes have depressed the  euro  against the
dollar, limiting the appeal of commodities priced in the U.S.
currency. The European currency was at $1.3105 today, up 0.9
percent, as the greenback fell against all but one of its 16
major peers.  “China’s economy will continue to expand as much as
possible, and in five years their oil consumption will be much
bigger,” said  Tetsu Emori , a commodity fund manager at Astmax
Ltd. in Tokyo. “The market is more focused on the dollar and
the euro and worried about the credit issues in Europe.”  An Energy Department report today  may show  U.S. crude and
distillate fuel stockpiles declined last week. Oil capped its
third monthly increase in November, climbing 3.3 percent.  U.S. inventories of distillates, which include heating oil
and diesel, dropped 1.1 million barrels, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of analysts before today’s report. The
industry-funded American Petroleum Institute yesterday said they
climbed 224,000 barrels.  Supplies of crude declined 1.15 million barrels, according
to the median of 16 responses in the survey. The API yesterday
said they dropped 1.14 million barrels.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  