-- Crude Oil Gains as Chinese Economic Growth Counters Europe Debt Concern
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 2010-12-01T07:48:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/crude-oil-trades-above-84-as-chinese-growth-counters-europe-debt-concerns.html
Oil rose, trimming the biggest
decline in almost two weeks, as signs of accelerating economic
growth in China, the world’s biggest energy consumer, countered
concerns that Europe’s debt crisis is worsening.  Futures gained as much as 0.6 percent after a report showed
Chinese manufacturing expanded at the fastest rate in seven
months in November. Crude also advanced as the dollar declined
for the first time in four days, increasing the appeal of
commodities to investors. U.S. government data may show oil
stockpiles shrank last week.  “China’s economy will continue to expand as much as
possible and in five years their oil consumption will be much
bigger,” said  Tetsu Emori , a commodity fund manager at Astmax
Ltd. in Tokyo. “Currently the market is more focused on the
dollar and the euro and worried about the credit issues in
Europe.”  The January contract rose as much as 51 cents to $84.62 a
barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange
and was at $84.57 a barrel at 3:40 p.m. Singapore time.
Yesterday, futures lost 1.9 percent, the biggest one-day decline
since Nov. 17.  China’s Purchasing Managers’ Index increased to 55.2 from
54.7 in October, according to the country’s logistics federation
today. That was more than the 54.8 median estimate of 14
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Europe’s Debt  Oil prices slumped yesterday as concern mounts that
Europe’s debt problems are spreading to countries including
Spain, Portugal and Italy. The European Union approved an 85
billion-euro ($111 billion) rescue package for Ireland Nov. 28.  The crisis has depressed the  euro  against the dollar,
limiting the appeal of commodities priced in the U.S. currency.
It was at $1.3038 today, up 0.4 percent, as the greenback fell
against all but one of its 16 major peers.  Oil also advanced before an Energy Department report that
 may show  U.S. crude and distillate fuel stockpiles declined last
week. Oil capped its third monthly increase in November,
climbing 3.3 percent. Prices are up 6.6 percent this year.  U.S. inventories of distillates, which include heating oil
and diesel, dropped 1.1 million barrels, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of analysts before today’s report. The
industry-funded American Petroleum Institute yesterday said they
climbed 224,000 barrels.  Supplies of crude declined 1.15 million barrels, according
to the median of 16 responses in the survey. The API yesterday
said they dropped 1.14 million barrels.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  Brent crude for January settlement rose as much as 62
cents, or 0.7 percent, to $86.54 a barrel on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange in London. It dropped 1.6 percent to $85.92
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net ;
 Ann Koh  in Singapore at   akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  