-- Deficit Panel Offers Cuts in Social Security, Taxes Amid Doubts on Passage
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2010-12-01T19:27:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/cuts-in-social-security-income-taxes-part-of-obama-s-debt-panel-proposals.html
The leaders of President  Barack Obama ’s debt-reduction commission unveiled a revised $3.8
trillion savings plan as panel members signaled reluctance to
reach a consensus to cut benefits and eliminate  tax  breaks.  The proposal released today would reduce income tax rates,
impose spending caps and salary freezes on the federal
government and cut health-care costs. Similar to a draft version
released Nov. 10, it recommends cutting Social Security and
Medicare and a payroll tax holiday.  “The era of  debt  denial is over, and there can be no
turning back,” co-chairmen  Erskine Bowles , a former chief of
staff to President  Bill Clinton , and Republican former Wyoming
Senator  Alan Simpson  said. “We sign our names to this plan
because we love our children, our grandchildren, and our country
too much not to act while we still have the chance.”  Prospects for approval are dim even as concern mounts over
the U.S.’s $13.7 trillion national debt and $1.3 trillion
deficit this year. Republicans will take control of the House in
January, making a political agreement with Obama and the
Democratic-dominated Senate less likely.  A panel vote set for today was delayed until Dec. 3. Bowles
said yesterday he didn’t know if members will reach agreement on
the proposal, which includes scaling back such popular tax
breaks as the home-mortgage interest deduction. Agreement from
14 of the commission’s 18 members is needed to send a plan to
Congress for a vote on whether to put it into effect. A failure
to get 14 votes would kill the plan.  ‘Very Small Changes’  Representative  Jan Schakowsky , an Illinois Democrat on the
commission, said she will vote against the new proposal because
it contained only “very small changes” from the previous
draft. “I don’t see how I can” support it, she said in an
interview.  Republican Representatives  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin and  Jeb Hensarling  of Texas said the plan doesn’t do enough to address
rising health-care costs. “I don’t know if you’re going to get
my vote,” Hensarling said. Yesterday, Ryan said he probably
wouldn’t vote for the proposal.  Retiring Senator  Judd Gregg , a New Hampshire Republican,
was among five members, addition to the two co-chairmen, saying
they will vote in favor. “It represents a step forward that we
urgently need,” he said in a statement.  Senator  Kent Conrad , a North Dakota Democrat who heads the
Budget Committee, said he will vote yes, as did commission
member  David Cote , chairman of Honeywell International Inc.;  Ann Fudge , former chief executive officer of Young & Rubicam Inc.,
and former Congressional Budget Office Director  Alice Rivlin .  ‘Very Hopeful’  “I remain very hopeful that in the next 48 hours
colleagues will reflect and decide to support this effort,”
said Conrad.  Unchanged from the previous draft are proposals to raise
taxes and fees by $1 trillion over the next nine years.
Discretionary spending would be cut by $1.67 trillion while
mandatory programs would be pared by $556 billion. The
government would balance its budget in 2035.  The proposal would cut Medicare by more than $400 billion.
It targets provisions in the administration’s health-care
overhaul establishing a long-term care insurance program, while
proposing tougher restrictions on war funding and other types of
“emergency” spending. Total savings would amount to $3.885
trillion over the next nine years, up slightly from the previous
draft’s $3.831 trillion.  Gregg said it’s vital that the government get the deficit
under control.  ‘Tough Decisions’  “The job of governing right now is getting our fiscal
house in order,” Gregg said on Bloomberg Television today.
“This is a blueprint for making those tough decisions.”  Still,  Stan Collender , a former congressional budget aide
and managing director of Qorvis Communications in Washington,
said the plan has little chance of approval. “The mantra for
next year is gridlock, stalemate and shutdown,” he said.  Senator  Dick Durbin  of Illinois, the second-ranking
Democrat and a member of the commission, said, “I can’t believe
I volunteered for this root canal.” He said a proposal to raise
the Social Security retirement age was “acceptable” though he
wasn’t ready to say whether he would support the full plan.  The proposal would reduce the deficit to 2.3 percent of
gross domestic product by 2015.  The previous draft by Bowles and Simpson had sparked
instant opposition from Democrats, some Republicans and groups
such as the Mortgage Bankers Association and the Aerospace
Industries Association. Democratic House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  of
California called the targeting of Social Security and Medicare
“simply unacceptable.”  Social Security  On Social Security, the report proposes gradually moving to
a formula that slows future benefit growth, particularly for
higher earners.  Currently, initial benefits are calculated using a three-
bracket formula with an annual cap at $106,800. The commission
recommends gradually transitioning to a four-bracket formula
that would remove the current cap to tax all income above
$102,000 at 5 percent.  Social Security would create a new special minimum benefit
of no less than 125 percent of the poverty rate in 2017 and
gradually increase the retirement age to 68 by 2050 and 69 by
2075. It would include a hardship exemption for those who can’t
work beyond age 62 and don’t qualify for disability.  Discretionary spending would be frozen at 2011 levels and
then require “serious belt-tightening” to begin in 2012,
followed by substantial cuts in 2013.  Tax Holiday  The proposal for a payroll tax holiday was first offered by
Rivlin to appeal to Democrats concerned about cutting government
benefits as the economy continues to  shed jobs .  The plan establishes a firewall between security and non-
security spending, requiring equal percentage cuts from both
sides. The security category covers all defense spending
including homeland security, nuclear weapons, veterans and
international affairs, with the exception of war spending.  A 15-cent-per-gallon gas tax to fund the transportation
trust fund would also be implemented.  Cuts to government  budgets  would reduce congressional and
White House spending by 15 percent, saving $800 million in 2015.
Salaries for members of Congress would be frozen for three
years, as would those for federal workers and Defense Department
civilians.  The proposal would overhaul income taxes by cutting back or
eliminating various tax breaks and using the revenue to lower
rates and reduce deficits. Income tax rates could be as low as 8
percent, 14 percent and 23 percent. The plan also offers
different options for retaining popular items like the child tax
credit.  Mortgage Interest  One alternative includes a 12 percent non-refundable tax
credit available to all taxpayers on their home-mortgage
interest with no credit for interest from a second residence.  The co-chairmen also said Congress should consider a
temporary suspension in 2011 of one side of the Social Security
payroll tax, financed by transfers from general revenue. This
would cost $50 billion to $100 billion in lost revenue.  Collender said the committee chairmen “decided this was
the best they could do and they would go out in a blaze of glory
rather be timid and come out with a vanilla plan.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net ;
 Heidi Przybyla  in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  