-- Datang’s Renewable Energy Unit Said to Start IPO Sale
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-01T09:33:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/datang-s-renewable-energy-unit-said-to-start-ipo-sale-update1-.html
China Datang Corp.’s renewable energy
unit will start taking orders for stock in its Hong Kong initial
public offering tomorrow, seeking to raise HK$6.8 billion ($876
million) in the sale, two people familiar with the matter said.  Some 2.14 billion shares in  China Datang Corp. Renewable
Power Co.  will be offered for HK$2.33 to HK$3.18 apiece, said
the people, who declined to be identified before an announcement.  The world’s largest polluting nation wants at least 15
percent of its energy to come from renewable sources including
wind by 2020. Datang Corp. Renewable is targeting capacity of at
least 20,000 megawatts in 10 years by developing wind, solar and
biomass projects, according to the  company .  China Everbright Ltd., UBS AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Credit
Suisse Group AG and Macquarie Group Ltd. are managing Datang
Corp. Renewable’s share sale. Huang Yuan, a spokesman for China
Datang, the nation’s second-largest power producer, couldn’t be
immediately reached at his office for comment.  A record $49 billion was raised in Hong Kong through
initial public offerings so far this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. China Datang’s bigger domestic rival
China Huaneng Group Corp. plans to raise as much as $1.3 billion
in the initial public offering of its renewable energy unit in
Hong Kong, according to a term sheet sent to investors Nov. 29.  China erected more wind turbines in 2009 than any other
country and may install a record 18 gigawatts of wind-power
capacity this year, Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates show.
China Datang is planning a 200-megawatt wind farm in Inner
Mongolia province, the local government said on Aug. 28.  -- Fox Hu  in Hong Kong, and  Wang Ying  and  Eva Woo  in Beijing.
Editors:  Ryan Woo ,  Tan Hwee Ann .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net 
Eva Woo in Beijing at 
 ewoo9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 