-- Denmark’s TDC Said to Attract Orders for All Shares in Offering
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2010-12-01T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/denmark-s-tdc-said-to-have-orders-for-all-shares-in-2-4-billion-offering.html
TDC A/S , Denmark’s biggest phone
company, has attracted orders for all 210 million shares on sale
in its stock offering, according to two people with direct
knowledge of the matter.  The banks managing the offering started taking orders
yesterday and plan to complete the sale on Dec. 8, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private. TDC’s owners, a group of five private equity firms, are
offering the shares for 47 kroner to 56 kroner each, the company
said on Nov. 25. It may sell another 31.5 million shares through
an overallotment option if demand is sufficient, bringing the
total offering to as much as 13.5 billion kroner ($2.4 billion).  Apax Partners LLP,  Blackstone Group LP ,  KKR & Co. , Permira
Advisers LLP and Providence Equity Partners Inc. acquired their
88 percent stake in TDC in 2006 in a transaction worth about
$15.3 billion, including net debt.  Lasse Bastkjaer Jensen , a spokesman for TDC, and  Charles Chichester , a spokesman for the group of private equity firms,
both declined to comment.  The buyout firms are selling a stake as investors seek
dividend yields from European telecommunications stocks after
years of rapid growth and overseas acquisitions. TDC’s Chief
Executive Officer  Henrik Poulsen  has promised to return 80
percent to 85 percent of free cash flow to investors in
dividends. The Copenhagen-based company plans to pay a  dividend 
of 4.35 kroner a share in 2011.  Share Buyback  TDC also plans to buy back as much as 9 billion kroner of
stock from all shareholders. The buyout firms will retain a
stake of as much as 60 percent after the share sale and buyback,
Poulsen said in a conference call last week.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , Morgan Stanley and SEB AB are
managing the share sale as global coordinators, while  Deutsche
Bank AG  and UBS AG are also acting as bookrunners.  TDC attracted the orders as  European stocks  rebounded from
an eight-week low with their biggest gain in three months.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  surged 2 percent yesterday amid
speculation that European Central Bank policy makers may step up
measures to contain the region’s debt crisis. TDC advanced 1.25
kroner, or 2.5 percent, to 52.25 kroner in Copenhagen trading,
valuing the company at 51.8 billion kroner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zijing Wu  in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 