-- Deripaska Said to Offer $2 Billion for Norilsk's Stake in Power Generator
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2010-12-01T08:48:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/deripaska-offers-2-billion-for-norilsk-stake-in-generator.html
OAO EuroSibEnergo , the utility owned
by billionaire  Oleg Deripaska , offered $2 billion in cash to  OAO
Norilsk Nickel  for its controlling stake in Russian power
generator OAO OGK-3, according to a document.  EuroSibEnergo is ready to buy Norilsk’s 79 percent in
Moscow-based OGK-3, according to Andrei Likhachev, chairman of
the utility’s Cyprus-based parent company EuroSibEnergo Plc.
Likhachev commented in a Nov. 30 letter to Norilsk Chairman
 Vasily Titov  and Chief Executive Officer  Vladimir Strzhalkovsky ,
a copy of which has been obtained by Bloomberg News.  A deal would scupper Norilsk’s plan to swap OGK-3 shares
for those of OAO Inter RAO UES, a state-run utility chaired by
Russia’s energy policy chief and Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin . Instead, EuroSibEnergo, with OGK-3 capacity, would
become Russia’s biggest power utility in advance of a Hong Kong
initial public offering in 2011.  “EuroSibEnergo’s offer naturally looks superior to the
deal with Inter RAO, as it is willing to pay all cash,” Troika
Dialog analyst  Mikhail Stiskin  said in a note to investors today.
The main risk to the bid is Deripaska’s battle for control of
Norilsk with rival shareholder  Vladimir Potanin  and the miner’s
management, Stiskin said.  Andrei Petrushinin , a spokesman for EN+ Group, the holding
company for EuroSibEnergo and Deripaska’s 48 percent stake in
United Co. Rusal, declined to comment as did Norilsk spokeswoman
 Maria Uvarova  when contacted in Moscow.  The bid, which didn’t specify a stock price, equates to
1.673 rubles a share compared with OGK-3’s close yesterday of
1.675 rubles. It’s priced in line with OGK-3’s average weighted
price of 1.671 rubles over the past six months.  OGK-3, which operates six power plants in Russia including
two coal-fired plants near the Chinese border, rose as much as
4.2 percent today, trading up 2.6 percent at 1.718 rubles at
11:31 a.m. in Moscow. The generator is up 17 percent this year.  Deripaska, Potanin  Both Deripaska and Potanin have called for Norilsk to sell
its stake in OGK-3 and other electricity assets. Russian state-
run utility OAO Inter RAO UES said Oct. 18 that it sought to
offer its shares for Norilsk’s stake in OGK-3. OGK-3 fell as
much as 2 percent after the statement by Inter RAO, which is
chaired by Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s deputy  Igor Sechin .  Norilsk was offered 15 percent of Inter RAO in exchange for
an 83 percent stake in OGK-3, two people familiar with the
matter said Oct. 20. Rusal and Potanin each own 25 percent of
Norilsk, with the latter last month making an offer to buy out
the aluminum maker’s stock for $9 billion. Deripaska called the
bid “a joke,” in a Nov. 13 interview.  Siberian Plants  OGK-3, which buys 1 million metric tons of coal a year from
EuroSibEnergo, has two power stations located in east Siberia,
near the Chinese border. That would fit with EuroSibEnergo’s aim
to export power to China, a trade that would first require five
years preparation to set up electricity transit infrastructure,
according to estimates made by EN+ head of strategy Dmitry Yudin
at a September briefing.  The two companies would have combined revenue of 111.5
billion rubles ($3.5 billion) and net income of 23.6 billion
rubles. The combined power capacity would be 27,800 megawatts.  “The acquisition could have a rather significant synergy
effect given the fact that OGK-3 operates 1,500 megawatts of
coal-fired capacity in Siberia, which could potentially be
supplied with coal from EurosibEnergo’s coal mining assets,”
UralSib Financial Corp. analysts led by Matvey Taits said today
in a note to investors. “It could result in a substantial
increase in OGK-3’s profitability through an improvement in
fixed cost efficiency.”  EuroSibEnergo has already tied up with China Yangtze Power
Co., the nation’s biggest hydro dam operator, to build 10,000
megawatts of hydro and thermal power capacity, with a plan to
sell some of the electricity to China. The Chinese utility will
also likely buy shares in a planned initial public offering of
EuroSibEnergo next year, people familiar with the matter said
Nov. 30.  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:
 Yuriy Humber  in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  