-- Deutsche Bank, Credit Suisse Lead Traders of Fed's Mortgage-Backed Bonds
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-12-01T20:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/deutsche-bank-credit-suisse-lead-traders-of-fed-s-mortgage-backed-bonds.html
Deutsche Bank AG  and  Credit Suisse
Group AG  led bond dealers that entered contracts to buy and sell
government-backed mortgage securities to the Federal Reserve as
the central bank acquired $1.25 trillion of the  debt  beginning
in January 2009.  The purchases, aimed partly at bolstering the housing
market by lowering financing  costs , represented the largest
portion of an unprecedented $1.72 trillion in debt-buying by
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s Fed during its first round of
quantitative easing. The central bank announced a second round,
dubbed QE2, last month.  The Fed released the names of counterparties, purchase
prices and other information about its mortgage-bond program
today to meet disclosure requirements in July’s Dodd-Frank
financial-oversight law. Lawmakers including  Bernard Sanders , a
Vermont Independent and self-declared socialist, and  Jim DeMint ,
a South Carolina Republican advocate for Tea Party candidates,
called for greater openness.  “We see this not as the end of a process but really a
significant step forward in opening the veil of secrecy that
exists in one of the most powerful agencies in government,”
Sanders, who authored the legislation’s provisions on Fed
transparency, told reporters Nov. 17.  Bear Bailout  In a July interview about the central bank’s 2008 bailout
of Bear Stearns Cos., in which the Fed gained stakes in riskier
real-estate debt that lacks government backing, Sanders said
that “the American people have a right to know what the Fed is
doing with trillions of their taxpayer dollars.” The central
bank never took credit risk with its purchase of so-called
agency mortgage securities, a Fed official said yesterday.  Purchases of mortgage-backed securities, or MBS,
“supported mortgage and housing markets, lowered longer-term
interest rates, and fostered economic growth,” the Fed said in
a  statement  today.  The central bank announced its plan to buy the securities
in November 2008, when deleveraging by debt funds and financial
companies curbed demand for even the safest securities. Bonds
explicitly guaranteed by the U.S. through federal agency Ginnie
Mae traded at  yields  more than 1 percentage point higher than
the average premium over benchmark rates during the previous
five years.  Largest Counterparties  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ’s collapse two months earlier
had roiled housing and credit markets, leading the Fed to expand
the limits and types of its emergency aid for companies and
markets, which peaked at $3.3 trillion. Home prices around 20
large U.S. metropolitan areas, which had fallen almost 26
percent from a 2006 peak through November 2008, extended
 declines  to nearly 32 percent before bottoming the following
May, according to S&P/Case-Shiller index data.  The Fed’s next largest counterparties in its mortgage-bond
program were  Morgan Stanley  and Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill
Lynch unit, the Fed data show. All the brokers were among the
so-called 18 primary dealers that trade directly with the
central bank.  Renee Calabro , a spokeswoman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Bank,  Mark Lake , a Morgan Stanley spokesman in New York, and
 Robert Stickler , a spokesman for Charlotte, North Carolina-based
Bank of America, declined to comment on the mortgage-bond
program.  Gobbled Up  “Although Credit Suisse did not participate in most of the
Federal Reserve’s emergency programs, our roles in the Term
Securities Loan Facility and the MBS Buyback program reflected
our duty as a primary dealer and our desire to help maintain
liquid markets during one of the most volatile periods in the
global markets in decades,” the Zurich-based bank said in a
statement sent by  Steven Vames , a spokesman, who declined to
comment further.  The Fed’s purchases, which began in January 2009 and
gobbled up almost a quarter of the more than $5 trillion market,
had little effect on overall trading volumes. Trading averaged
about $300 billion daily as the central bank was buying,
compared with about $275 billion over the previous five years
and almost $310 billion since, Fed  data  show. The week before
the Fed’s announcement, volume averaged $252.3 billion, as
markets for other mortgage debt were essentially shut.  The program, which was initially announced as a $500
billion plan on Nov. 25, 2008, grew by $750 billion as the Fed
sought to inject more money into the economy. While the
initiative officially ended in March, the Fed didn’t stop
entering contracts to buy and sell debt until June.  Market Shortages  During that period, in response to shortages in the market,
the central bank continued to offset some of its outstanding
contracts to purchase home-loan securities with agreements to
sell the debt. At the same time the Fed entered into new
contracts to take other types of securities or buy the same
bonds later when more might be available.  The Fed’s trading totaled $2.45 trillion, including $1.85
billion of purchase contracts and $600 billion of sales
contracts, according to the data. Deutsche Bank handled $410.8
billion of the trades; Credit Suisse was responsible for $383
billion; Morgan Stanley transacted $280 billion and Merrill
Lynch traded $244.6 billion.  Unlike with its purchases of  Treasuries  and so-called
agency debentures, the central bank didn’t announce publicly
when it would buy specific home-loan bonds, and it didn’t open
auctions to any primary dealer offering the best price.  Electronic Platforms  Instead, when the Fed sought the securities, guaranteed by
government-backed entities led by Washington-based  Fannie Mae ,
the central bank would announce its intentions via private asset
managers on electronic platforms, according to people who
participated in the program. They declined to be identified
because they weren’t allowed to talk publicly.  In these announcements, the central bank would specify the
amount and type of bonds it was seeking, and would typically put
only four dealers in competition with each round of buying, the
maximum allowed by the trading platform, the people said. The
central bank rotated among different groups of four, though not
in a way meant to be regular or provide completely equal
opportunities to all dealers as it sought to deal with the most
active firms in the market, they said.  Jeffrey V. Smith, a spokesman for the New York Fed,
declined to comment on the procedures.  “It sounds like they made an effort” to avoid overpaying
dealers “but unless they disclose the prices and someone can
then match those to prices on similar issues over that period of
time, it’s going to be hard to tell,” said former Atlanta Fed
research director  Robert Eisenbeis , now chief monetary economist
at Cumberland Advisors Inc. in Sarasota, Florida.  Dealers Profit  Even with daily price information, gauging whether the Fed
overpaid would require knowing the exact time of day of
transactions, which the central bank didn’t release, as well as
market prices at those times.  No matter what, sellers to the Fed could profit: Typically,
brokers offer to buy agency mortgage securities for 1/64th or
1/32nd of a cent on the dollar less than they offer to sell
them, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. On $1.25 trillion
of debt, those bid-ask spreads translate to $195 million to $390
million, respectively. While dealers risk losses if values fall
as they carry bonds in inventory, dealers can also profit on the
interest paid on the securities they hold.  The Fed’s mortgage buying initially relied on units of four
private money managers: Pacific Investment Management Co.,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., BlackRock Inc. and Wellington
Management Co. In August 2009, the Fed said it was dropping
Pimco and Goldman and downgrading BlackRock to an administrative
role.  ‘Intended Effect’  Representative  Patrick Murphy , a Pennsylvania Democrat,
last year unsuccessfully sought reports to Congress on the
potential conflicts of interest within those asset managers,
whose activities were also further detailed in today’s
disclosures, as the Fed said which handled particular trades.  In an October 2009 speech, Bernanke listed the mortgage-
bond buying among programs that were “having their intended
effect.” Interest rates on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages,
“which responded very little to our cuts in the target federal
funds rate, have declined about 1.5 percentage points since we
first announced MBS purchases in November, helping to support
the housing market,” he said.  Average 30-year mortgage rates fell to a then-record low of
4.71 percent in December 2009 before climbing and then
retreating again to 4.17 percent early last month.  ‘Major Success’  The effects of the mortgage-bond buying weren’t as large as
they appeared,  John B. Taylor  and Johannes C. Stroebel,
economics professors at Stanford University in Stanford,
California said in a December 2009,  paper . The decline in
mortgage rates instead could be seen as reflecting lower concern
that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac would default on their
obligations and a decrease in interest-rate  volatility  and other
causes of prepayment risk, they wrote.  “The program was a major success and kept home prices from
really collapsing,” said  Scott Simon , the mortgage-bond head at
Newport Beach, California-based Pimco, in March. Simon wasn’t
part of the unit hired by the Fed.  Pimco’s  Total Return Fund , the world’s biggest bond fund,
dropped its mortgage-securities holdings as the Fed bought; the
share of its investment in them declined to less than 20 percent
by the program’s end, from 86 percent in February 2009,
according to its website. Such reductions led to investors
bolstering other markets, ranging from high-yield corporate
bonds to non-guaranteed mortgage securities, according to
analysts including at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  