-- Developing World Draws Investors, Pimco’s Gross Says
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-12-01T14:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/developing-world-to-continue-to-draw-investment-gross-says.html
Bill Gross , manager of the world’s
largest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said
investors will flock to emerging markets until developed nations
compete better by making more goods and making them better.  “The smart money will continue to move offshore to Asia,
Brazil and other developing economies, both in asset and in
currency space,” Gross wrote in his monthly  investment  outlook
posted on Newport Beach, California-based Pimco’s website today.
“In the meantime, our unemployed will continue to fill out
forms and stand in line.”  The unemployment  rate  has remained near a 26-year high for
the past three months. Reports on Dec. 3 may show nonfarm
payrolls rose by 145,000 in November and an unemployment rate
unchanged at 9.6 percent, according to Bloomberg surveys. Pimco
has championed the idea of the new normal, in which investors
will receive lower-than-historically average returns as global
growth slows and the influence of the U.S. is diminished.  Many policies in the U.S. and Europe will only temporarily
bolster consumption while failing to address the fundamental
problems of developed economies, Gross wrote. “Politicians and
respective electorates focus on taxes or healthcare when the
ultimate demon is a lack of global demand and the international
competitiveness to thrive.”  The U.S. economy grew at a 2.5 percent annual rate in the
third-quarter, a Commerce Department report showed Nov. 23. It
emerged from a  recession  after having four consecutive quarters
of negative growth beginning in third quarter 2008.  ‘Shining Hill’  “Lost in the policy debate surrounding the elections and
the subsequent demonization of the Federal Reserve’s
Quantitative Easing (’QE2’) policies has been any recognition of
why we no longer live on  Ronald Reagan ’s shining hill or how we
might possibly reclaim higher ground,” Gross wrote, a month
after the central bank announced a $600 billion asset purchase
program Nov. 3 to boost economic growth.  “The constructive way is to stop making paper and start
making things,” Gross wrote. “Replace subprimes, and yes,
Treasury bonds with American cars, steel, iPads, airplanes, corn
-- whatever the world wants that we can make better and/or
cheaper. Learn how to compete again.”  Pimco began offering equity funds in April to allow
customers to diversify holdings as the global economy changes
and areas such as emerging markets outperform developed regions.  The Washington-based International Monetary Fund said on
Oct. 6 that developing nations will grow 6.4 percent next year,
almost three times the pace projected for industrialized
economies including Europe and the U.S.  Fund Assets  The $256 billion Total Return Fund managed by Gross held 12
percent of its assets in emerging market debt in September and
October, the highest since at least September 2006. The fund’s
investment in government-related securities was lowered in
October to 28 percent, from 33 percent the previous month,
according to data published Nov. 16 on Pimco’s  website .  Pimco doesn’t comment directly on monthly changes in its
portfolio holdings.  Gross said in his November investment outlook that a
renewal of asset purchases by the Fed will likely signify the
end of the 30-year  bull market  in bonds.  The  Total Return Fund , also the world’s biggest mutual
fund, handed investors a gain of about 8.48 percent in the past
year, beating about 70 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Pimco, a unit of Munich-based insurer
Allianz SE, managed $1.236 trillion of assets as of September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  