-- L.A. Dodgers Owner Frank McCourt Says Divorce Settlement Mediation Failed
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2010-12-01T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/dodgers-owner-mccourt-ex-wife-fail-to-settle-divorce-battle-over-team.html
Los Angeles Dodgers owner  Frank McCourt  and his ex-wife,  Jamie McCourt , failed to reach an
agreement in their divorce dispute over who will control the
Major League Baseball team, a lawyer for Frank McCourt said.  Frank McCourt accepted a proposed settlement by a mediator,
according to an e-mailed statement by his lawyer, Marc Seltzer.
Both sides had until yesterday to accept the proposal and the
mediator, Los Angeles Superior Court Judge  Peter Lichtman , has
declared the parties to be at impasse, Seltzer said.  “Frank fully supported the mediation process in the hopes
that it would result in an agreement that would bring long-
awaited closure to this matter,” Seltzer said. “We can only
conclude that Jamie rejected Judge Lichtman’s settlement
proposal and is allowing this matter to drag on further.”  The couple was officially divorced Oct. 26, after almost 31
years of marriage. They went to trial in September over the
validity of a postnuptial agreement they signed in 2004 when
they moved to Los Angeles from Boston. Jamie McCourt disputes
the enforceability of the agreement that Frank McCourt says
makes him the sole owner of the baseball team.  California Superior Court Judge Scott M. Gordon, who
presided over the nonjury trial, will rule by the end of
December on the validity of the postnuptial agreement.  ‘Confidentiality’  “We believe that the Court ordered complete
confidentiality regarding the settlement proposal and everything
related to it,” Michael Kump, a lawyer for Jamie McCourt, said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “We believe it would be a
violation to say anything about the proposal or anything related
to it.”  The $421 million acquisition of the Dodgers from  Fox
Entertainment Group Inc.  was completed Feb. 13, 2004. The team
is now worth about $727 million, according to Forbes. Jamie
McCourt testified in September that it was “preposterous” that
she knowingly would have given up her rights to the Dodgers in a
divorce.  Frank McCourt has argued that his wife sought the property
agreement because she wanted to shield the homes that were in
her name from liabilities he assumed to acquire the team,
including $330 million in new debt. The couple held the homes in
Jamie McCourt’s name and businesses in Frank McCourt’s name
before they moved to California.  The case is McCourt v. McCourt, BD514309, Los Angeles
County Superior Court (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 