-- Dollar Defying Skeptics as Best-Returning Asset
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-12-01T12:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/dollar-proves-best-returning-asset-in-november-defying-bernanke-skeptics.html
The dollar proved to be last month’s
best investment, beating stocks, bonds and commodities,
confounding officials around the world who said Federal Reserve
policies would debase the U.S. currency.  The  U.S. Dollar Index , which tracks the currency against
those of six major U.S. trading partners including the euro, yen
and pound, rose 5.09 percent in November. The  Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index  of 19 commodities was little
changed. The  MSCI All Country World Index  of stocks fell 2.2
percent after accounting for reinvested dividends. Bonds lost
1.1 percent including reinvested interest as measured by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Index.  While German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s decision to pump $600 billion into
the world’s largest economy by purchasing Treasuries was
“clueless,” rising bond  yields  and signs of economic recovery
increased the allure of U.S. assets. The gain in the Dollar
Index brought its advance for the year to 4.4 percent, trailing
the 5.3 percent rally in bonds, 5.5 percent for stocks and 6.4
percent jump in commodities prices.  “Strong U.S. economic figures have helped the dollar,”
said  Masataka Horii , one of four managers for the $35.9 billion
Kokusai Global Sovereign Open fund in Tokyo, Asia’s biggest bond
fund. Global Sovereign Open’s dollar-denominated holdings
account for 22 percent of its total, the second-biggest position
behind the 28 percent devoted to euro assets, he said.  Job Growth  U.S. central bank policy also revived speculation that
inflation will accelerate at the same time that growing concerns
about Europe’s sovereign debt damped demand for bonds and
equities. The Labor Department may say in two days that American
employers added jobs for a second month in November, according
to the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The U.S. and the European economies will recover next
year,” Horii said in an interview. “The dollar and the euro
will start getting more attractive.”  Intercontinental Exchange Inc.’s Dollar Index rose to
81.290 yesterday from 77.266 at the end of October. Last month’s
gain was the biggest since the measure jumped 5.8 percent in
May. The index declined 0.4 percent at 7:43 a.m. in New York,
the first drop in four days, amid speculation European Central
Bank policy makers meeting tomorrow may signal their willingness
to act to prevent the spread of the region’s debt crisis.  Of the 16 most-traded currencies, the greenback had its
steepest gain against the euro, strengthening 7.43 percent,
followed by a 7.37 percent gain versus Denmark’s krone and 6.17
percent to Norway’s krone, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Money Printing  America’s currency rose even as Japan Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said Nov. 4 the U.S. was pursuing a “weak-dollar policy”
through its plan to buy Treasuries. Chinese central bank adviser
 Xia Bin  said the same day the Fed’s policy amounted to
“uncontrolled” money printing.  Speculation the Fed’s purchases of Treasuries would succeed
in avoiding deflation and bolstering the recovery pushed U.S.
government bonds lower, driving the 10-year  yield  to as high as
2.96 percent on Nov. 16 from 2.6 percent at the end of October.  The average yield to maturity on the more than 19,400 bonds
in the Bank of America Merrill Lynch index rose to 2.54 percent
from 2.27 percent on Oct. 31. Last month’s decline was the
biggest since the index tumbled 1.5 percent in April 2004.  German bunds lost 0.2 percent, U.S. government bonds fell
0.7 percent and Japanese debt dropped 1.2 percent.  Irish Bonds  Ireland’s bonds slumped 11 percent, the biggest monthly
decline since the Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes began in
1988. The nation sought an 85 billion euro ($110 billion)
bailout from the European Union and International Monetary Fund,
becoming the second country after Greece to seek aid.  Corporate fixed-income securities from the U.S. to Europe
and Asia declined 1 percent on average. The extra yield
investors demand to own the debt instead of benchmark government
bonds widened to 1.77 percentage points from 1.64 on Oct. 31.  “The euro-zone problem is an issue causing risk
aversion,” said  Walter De Wet , head of commodity research at
Standard Bank Plc in London, a unit of South Africa’s largest
lender.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies commodities index ended
November at 301.41, after reaching a 25-month high of 320.38 on
Nov. 9. Wheat was the worst performer, declining 9.3 percent,
followed by a 8.9 percent drop in corn and a decline of 7.1
percent for orange juice.  Cheaper Alternative  Silver futures traded in New York led commodity gains in
November, rallying 14 percent because the metal is a cheaper
alternative to gold for investors and jewelers, De Wet said.
 Gold  rose to a record $1,424.60 on Nov. 9, before ending the
month at $1,386.02.  “The downside is likely to be limited from here” for
commodities, De Wet said, forecasting the Fed’s stimulus package
and Chinese demand will boost prices into next year. He favors
gold, copper and palladium for the next 6 to 12 months.  Stocks  around the world snapped a two-month gain as
Europe’s debt crisis and China’s anti-inflation measures curbed
demand for equities. The People’s Bank of China raised its
benchmark lending and deposit rates in October for the first
time since 2007.  The MSCI All Country World Index fell after returning 3.6
percent in October and 9.6 percent in September, the biggest
back-to-back monthly gains since soaring 23 percent in April and
May 2009.  Growth Outlook  “We should get some recovery in share markets,” said
 Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head of investment strategy at AMP
Capital Investors Ltd., which manages about $93 billion and is a
unit of AMP Ltd., Australia’s second-largest asset manager.
“There’s nothing I see to indicate a return to recession.”  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said Nov. 18 the global economy will expand 4.2 percent next
year instead of the 4.5 percent predicted in May. Growth will
recover to 4.6 percent in 2012, the Paris-based group said in
its semi-annual Economic Outlook.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225  Stock Average returned 8 percent in
November to 9937.04, the best gain among the world’s biggest
equity markets, based on data compiled by Bloomberg. Shares
advanced as the yen at a two-month low against the dollar
improved the outlook for export earnings.  Komatsu Ltd., the world’s second-largest maker of
construction equipment, Fast Retailing Co., Japan’s biggest
clothing chain operator, and TDK Corp., the world’s largest
manufacturer of magnetic heads for disk drives, each returned
more than 17 percent.  Global Equities  The  Euro Stoxx 50 Index , a measure of equities in nations
using the euro, slumped 6.4 percent including reinvested
dividends as Ireland accepted the bailout of its banking
industry. Concern the debt crisis will spread to other countries
sent Spain’s IBEX 35  Index  down 14 percent and the  FTSE/ASE 20
Index  of Greek stocks to an 10.2 percent loss.  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  fell for the first time in
five months, losing 5.3 percent. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index 
of U.S. shares returned 0.01 percent, after rising for two
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 