-- Drugmakers Negotiating With U.K. Over Pricing Changes
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2010-12-01T13:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/drugmakers-in-war-dance-with-u-k-government-over-value-based-pricing.html
Drugmakers are negotiating with the
U.K. over changes to the pharmaceutical pricing system, which
expires in 2014, as the government seeks to rein in the cost of
the state-run  National Health Service .  Companies are also weighing proposals to change the way
they market medicines to the NHS, the world’s largest public
health system, as decisions on purchasing will shift to local
groups of doctors from an independent agency.  The changes will increase patient access to new drugs in
the NHS and ensure that funds are spent on products that show a
benefit, the government said. Negotiations with the government
may end up delaying the introduction of new treatments,
drugmakers said. Marketing to local doctor groups to be formed
under the plan may increase companies’ costs, said  Alan Maynard ,
a health economist at the  University of York .  “Pharma is going to have to reorientate its marketing and
that’s going to be very expensive,” Maynard said in an
interview. “This current war dance that is going on will not
necessarily end up being all that beneficial for them.”  Founded in 1948, the NHS employs 1.7 million people. Only
the Chinese People’s Liberation Army, the  Wal-Mart Stores Inc .
supermarket chain and the Indian Railways employ more, according
to the NHS  website . The service is the government’s second-
largest expenditure, at an  estimated  104 billion pounds ($161
billion) for 2010-2011. About a fifth of that is used to pay for
drugs and other supplies.  Value-Based  The government  proposed  in July that costs should be based
on the value the treatments provide to patients, setting off
negotiations with the industry. Under the existing system,
companies set the price and then submit clinical data to an
agency that decides whether the drug is a cost-effective use of
NHS funds.  Companies receive a 17 to 18 percent return on NHS sales
under that system, known as the Pharmaceutical Price Regulation
Scheme, according to the  Association of the British
Pharmaceutical Industry .  “The pharmaceutical industry has argued that the PPRS
gives them the greatest flexibility and is a system that they
will prefer to continue with,” said  David Webb , a professor of
therapeutics and clinical pharmacology at the  University of
Edinburgh .  Eli Lilly & Co.  warned the  Department of Health  in July
that the move to value-based pricing may lead to delays in drugs
being introduced to the market, according to minutes obtained by
Bloomberg News under a Freedom of Information Act request.  Possible Delays  “Just by having a price negotiation it could lead to
delays in access versus the current approach,” Rick Ascroft,
director of corporate affairs at Lilly U.K. who attended the
July meeting, said in a phone interview yesterday. “While the
goal of the system is to improve access, at least upfront it may
actually do the opposite.”  The introduction of value-based pricing would make the
decisions of the  National Institute for Health and Clinical
Excellence , the agency that weighs whether a treatment is cost-
effective, “somewhat redundant,” Under Secretary of State for
Health  Earl Howe  was cited as saying in the  Pharma Times  on Oct.
26. NICE’s recommendation or rejection of a drug governs NHS
purchasing decisions.  U.K. Secretary of State for Health  Andrew Lansley  declined
to be interviewed by Bloomberg News, Department of Health
spokesman Kirsty Gelsthorpe said, citing consultations with
industry over the changes that are expected before the end of
the year.  NICE’s Role  “It seems that we’re not going to, after 2013, recommend
to the NHS in the terms we have,” NICE Chief Executive Officer
 Andrew Dillon  said today at a Financial Times conference in
London. In an interview with Bloomberg News, he said, “We are
certainly going to be there as a major part of the new system.”  Under the new proposals, the 145 managing regional  Primary
Care Trusts  will be replaced by 2014 by local doctor groups,
also known as GP consortia, who will decide which drugs to
purchase for patients.  “We’re facing a completely different environment for sure
within the next couple of years,” said  Richard Barker , director
general of the Association of the British Pharmaceutical
Industry. “The industry needs to remake its marketing and sales
to both build relationships as these new entities come into
existence.”  The proposals may set in place anything between 200 to 500
new consortia, according to Lilly’s Ascroft.  ‘Horse Manure’  “I imagine they are pulling their hair out over the idea
of marketing to GP consortia,” Maynard said. Doctors
“appreciate someone like NICE, which is the international
benchmark with its transparency and methods, coming along and
saying ‘this is horse manure’ or ‘this is a good drug’ because
it takes the burden off them.”  Prime Minister David Cameron’s government on Oct. 20
announced the country’s deepest budget reductions ever, cutting
almost 500,000 public-sector jobs. The U.K. aims to eliminate a
156 billion-pound budget deficit after the worst recession since
World War II. Spending on the NHS, which Cameron has pledged to
protect, will increase by 0.4 percent in real terms.  In the last decade, NHS funds had an annual increase of 7
percent above inflation, said  John Healey , health spokesman for
the opposition Labour Party. Even then, drug spending “had to be
brought under some sort of control,” he said.  “The concept of value-based pricing has an intellectual
attraction, but is a leap in the dark at a time when finances in
the NHS have not been this tight since a period in the 1950s,”
Healey said in an interview in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Kay  in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  