-- E.ON Sells $4.5 Billion Gazprom Stake to VEB, Market
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2010-12-01T17:35:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/e-on-plans-to-sell-4-5-billion-gazprom-stake-to-russia-s-veb-open-market.html
E.ON AG  agreed to sell its 3.5
percent stake in  OAO Gazprom , the world’s biggest gas producer,
for 3.4 billion euros ($4.5 billion) to cut debt.  Russia’s state development bank VEB will buy 2.7 percent,
the rest has been sold on the open market. The sale will help
E.ON to raise 15 billion euros in asset sales by the end of
2013, Chief Executive Officer  Johannes Teyssen  said today in a
statement on the company’s website.  E.ON, Germany’s biggest utility, plans to maintain its
partnership with Gazprom and projects in Russia as it raises
funds to pay debt and make new strategic investments. The
minority stake was “non-strategic,” Teyssen said last month.  “E.ON and Gazprom have close commercial ties, a
friendship, this is not ending,”  Theo Kitz , an analyst with
Munich-based Merck Finck & Co., said by phone. “It will be a
big step toward E.ON’s goal to sell assets.”  E.ON will book a gain of about 2.5 billion euros from the
gain, according to the statement.  Gazprom shares rose 4.7 percent to close at 182.67 rubles
in Moscow, the highest price since April 15. That values the
company at $137 billion.  Positive for Gazprom  “Everyone was concerned that the shares will be sold on the
open market,”  Alex Fak , an analyst at Troika Dialog in Moscow,
said by phone. “The fact that 2.7 percent was sold to VEB is
positive for Gazprom stock.”  E.ON shares rose 1.5 percent to close at 22.43 euros in
Frankfurt, the biggest advance since Nov. 18.  The agreement is signed, VEB chief  Vladimir Dmitriev , told
reporters in Moscow, declining to comment on the price. E.ON
will transfer the stake and receive the payment this month, the
German utility said.  E.ON’s Ruhrgas unit reduced its stake to 3.5 percent from
about 6.5 percent last year in exchange for a stake of 25
percent minus three shares in a Gazprom unit developing the
Yuzhno-Russkoye gas field in western Siberia. Ruhrgas became the
first Western company to take a direct stake in Gazprom when it
acquired 2.5 percent in 1998, according to its  website .  E.ON in Russia  “The sale of our Gazprom stake does not alter our Russia
strategy,” Teyssen said. “E.ON will remain an active investor
in Russia in both power and gas.”  Besides working with Gazprom in Yuzhno-Russkoye, E.ON
Ruhrgas holds 15.5 percent of the Nord Stream venture that is
building a gas pipeline from Russia to Germany across the Baltic
Sea, and E.ON controls the OGK-4 power utility in Russia.
 Burckhard Bergmann , former CEO of E.ON Ruhrgas, has been on
Gazprom’s board since 2000.  “I am sure we will continue our successful cooperation
after E.ON exits as a shareholder,”  Sergei Kupriyanov , a
Gazprom spokesman, said today by telephone. “We started a
number of joint projects in gas production and transportation,
in which we will remain partners.”  E.ON Ruhrgas imports most of its gas from Gazprom, while
the utility is developing a profitable power generation business
in Russia, Kitz said.  E.ON, which has its headquarters in Dusseldorf, is looking
at expansion outside of Europe, where utilities face stagnant
demand and levies from governments that want to plug deficits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Shiryaevskaya  in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  