-- Ecopetrol Invited by Reliance, ONGC Videsh to Explore in India
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2010-12-02T03:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/ecopetrol-invited-by-reliance-ongc-videsh-to-explore-in-india.html
Ecopetrol SA , Colombia’s state-
controlled crude producer, has been asked by  Reliance Industries
Ltd.  of India and ONGC Videsh Ltd. to jointly develop oil and
gas blocks in the South Asian country.  “Reliance and ONGC Videsh are already doing business with
Ecopetrol in Colombia,” Juan Alfredo Pinto Saavedra, Colombia’s
ambassador to India, said in an interview in Mumbai yesterday.
“Now they have asked Ecopetrol to come to India with them. And
we say, why not?”  India is offering 34 oil and gas exploration blocks in its
ninth round of auctions as it steps up efforts to boost output
to help meet demand in Asia’s second-fastest growing major
economy. The auction began on Oct. 15 and will close on March 18.  Bogota-based Ecopetrol acquired a 20 percent stake in two
exploration areas in Colombia operated by a unit of  Reliance
Industries , India’s largest company by market value, Reliance
said in December 2009. The companies have an agreement to
explore deepwater blocks in the Latin American nation.  ONGC Videsh, a unit of India’s biggest energy exploration
 company , has interests in five exploration blocks in Colombia
and holds 50 percent in Mansarovar Energy Colombia Ltd., a
venture between it and a Sinopec Group unit, according to its
website.  ONGC Videsh’s director of exploration,  Joeman Thomas ,
couldn’t be reached late yesterday on his office telephone in
New Delhi. Reliance spokesman  Manoj Warrier  declined to comment.  Ecopetrol currently doesn’t have any stakes in exploration
blocks in India.  India received $14 billion of bids in the previous eight
rounds of auctions and is expecting increased demand in its
latest offering, Oil Minister  Murli Deora  said Oct. 18.  The government is offering eight deep-water areas, seven
shallow-water blocks and 19 onshore.  A planned integration of stock exchanges in Colombia, Chile
and Peru could prompt further investment in the region by the
Indian companies, Saavedra also said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pratish Narayanan  in Mumbai 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell@bloomberg.net . 