-- Ecopetrol Record Bond Sale Fuels Biggest Colombia Debt Slump in Two Years
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2010-12-01T19:46:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/ecopetrol-record-bond-sale-fuels-biggest-colombia-debt-slump-in-two-years.html
Ecopetrol SA’s  record local bond sale
sparked the biggest slump in Colombian bonds in two years as
investors pared government debt holdings to free up cash for the
state-run oil company’s offering.  Colombia’s peso-denominated debt lost 2 percent in
November, double the 1 percent decline in emerging-market local
government debt, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co’s GBI-EM Broad
Index. The selloff, the worst since a 3.3 percent slide in
October 2008, breaks an eight-month rally that drove yields on
the government’s benchmark bonds due in 2020, known as TES, to a
record low of 6.97 percent on Nov. 8.  Ecopetrol’s sale today of 1 trillion pesos ($514 million)
of inflation-linked bonds lured investors seeking higher-
yielding alternatives to government debt as the economy picks
up, said Felipe Gaviria, chief investment officer at ING
Pensiones y Cesantias. Ecopetrol’s seven-year debt yielded 330
basis points above inflation. Government bonds of similar
maturity, known as TES-UVR, yield 315 basis points above
inflation.  “Corporate bonds have become competition” for government
debt, Gaviria, said in a telephone interview from Bogota before
the debt sale results were announced. “We’ve had a large amount
of corporate debt sales in a short period. If you want to buy
corporate bonds, you have little choice but to sell TES.”  Debt Yields  Ecopetrol, based in Bogota, sold five-year securities to
yield 2.8 percentage points above inflation, Chief Executive
Officer  Javier Gutierrez  told reporters today in Bogota. The oil
producer also sold 10- and 30-year debt to yield 3.94 and 4.9
percentage points above inflation, respectively, he said.
Investor demand for the securities totaled 3.01 trillion pesos.  The offering will help push Colombian corporate debt sales
this year to 13.1 trillion pesos, almost matching last year’s
record 13.4 trillion pesos, according to Bogota-based Alianza
Valores.  Yields on the government’s fixed-rate bonds due in 2020
rose 59 basis points, or 0.59 percentage point, in November to
7.59 percent after declining 204 basis points over the previous
eight months as the central bank cut the benchmark  lending rate 
to a record 3 percent to bolster growth. The bonds’ price fell
4.84 centavos in the month to 122.652 centavos per peso.  The yield fell nine basis points today to 7.50 percent at
2:36 p.m. New York time. The Colombian peso rose 0.6 percent to
1,932.50 per U.S. dollar from 1,944.15 yesterday.  Grupo Aval Sale  Fixed-rate government securities have also underperformed
on speculation heavier-than-normal rains in the South American
country will fuel inflation by damaging crops and driving up
food prices. Economists forecast annual inflation quickened to a
13-month high of 2.5 percent in November, according to the
median estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Finance Minister  Juan Carlos Echeverry  said as recently as
Nov. 19 that he expects  annual inflation  to end this year close
to 2 percent and hold at that level in 2011. Consumer prices
rose 2.3 percent in the 12 months through October, within the
central bank’s target of 2 percent to 4 percent.  Colombian government bonds also fell last month as concern
the sovereign debt crisis is spreading in Europe eroded demand
for emerging-market debt.  Correval SA and Valores Bancolombia SA managed the
Ecopetrol sale. The 1 trillion pesos sold surpasses the previous
Colombian record of 750 billion pesos by  Grupo Aval Acciones y
Valores SA , the nation’s biggest financial holding company, in
December 2009.  Investment Plan  Ecopetrol is turning to the local debt market for the first
time since 1998 to help finance record investment amid rising
oil demand in China, Gutierrez said in an interview in New York
last month.  Ecopetrol plans to invest more than $80 billion through
2020 to finance exploration projects in Colombia and expansion
in neighboring Peru and Brazil. The company is seeking to boost
output to 1 million barrels a day by 2015 from 632,000 barrels a
day in the third quarter.  Expectations of rising crude prices as well as Ecopetrol’s
plan to raise production make the bonds attractive, said  Daniel Lozano , an analyst at Medellin-based brokerage Serfinco SA.  Moody’s Investors Service rates Ecopetrol Baa2, the second-
lowest investment grade rating. Standard & Poor’s rates
Ecopetrol BB+, one level below investment grade. Both Moody’s
and S&P rate Colombia’s foreign debt one level below investment
grade with a positive outlook.  ‘Not Much Upside’  More than 60 percent of the corporate bond sales this year
are from companies in the financial industry, according to
Lozano. Banks will benefit from the expanding economy as demand
for loans rises, Lozano said. He predicts the economy will grow
4.4 percent this year after expanding 0.8 percent last year.  Banco de Occidente SA issued 360 billion pesos of
securities last week, including five-year debt to yield 3.15
percentage points above inflation, while Banco Davivienda SA,
Colombia’s third-biggest bank, sold 500 billion pesos of bonds
in October including five-year bonds to yield 3.14 percentage
points above inflation.  ING’s Gaviria said the pension fund, the country’s fifth
biggest, has sold some TES to “make room” for the Ecopetrol
sale and planned on buying the securities if prices were
attractive. Gaviria’s pension funds managed 11.3 trillion pesos
as of August, including 3.9 trillion pesos of TES bonds,
according to the most recent data published by the financial
regulator.  “There’s not much upside on TES,” Gaviria said. “You get
real returns, and inflation is apparently under control, but
that’s about it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Jaramillo  in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  