-- Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood Quits Election Runoff, Claiming `Violations'
-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m   a n d   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a
-- 2010-12-01T16:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/egypt-s-muslim-brotherhood-quits-election-runoff-claiming-violations-.html
Egypt’s main opposition group, the
Muslim Brotherhood, said it’s withdrawing its candidates from
runoffs in parliamentary elections, which it claims were rigged.  The Islamist group said in a statement on its website that
it was pulling out of a second round of voting on Dec. 5, “in
protest to violations and riggings.” The Brotherhood, which is
outlawed by the government and fields its candidates as
independents, failed to win any seats in the first round.  The ruling  National Democratic Party  has denied charges of
rigging the vote. The Obama administration was “disappointed”
by “the numerous reported irregularities at the polls,”
National Security Council spokesman  Mike Hammer  said yesterday.  The party of President  Hosni Mubarak  won 209 of the 221
seats decided in the voting on Nov. 28, according to official
results released yesterday on the website of the electoral
commission. The results tighten the ruling party’s grip on power
in Egypt, a U.S. ally, as it prepares for next year’s
presidential election, which may see the first change in
leadership in three decades.  The NDP fielded more than 800 candidates for 508
parliamentary seats. The Brotherhood lost 62 of the 88 seats it
held in the outgoing parliament and won’t contest the remainder.  “They were surprised by the extent to which they were
barred from the elections,” said Issandr El Amrani, a Cairo-
based independent political analyst. “I can understand them
thinking, ‘Why go through another round of this charade?’ They
are going to have to take a step back and reconsider their
strategy. There’s a longstanding debate about participation that
will re-emerge.”  Government Response  “We are prepared to answer any criticisms, internal or
external, about the election,” Prime Minister  Ahmed Nazif  told
reporters in Cairo today. Egypt’s government invalidated results
from 1,053 ballot boxes due to charges of vote-rigging, Sameh El
Kashef, spokesman for the commission, said at a press conference
late yesterday.  Mubarak , in power since 1981, hasn’t announced whether he
will run for another six-year term. Opposition groups, including
the Brotherhood, have said that the president is grooming his
son  Gamal , a senior NDP official, to succeed him. Both men deny
this.  The lack of a designated successor to Mubarak, 82, has
fueled concern that a succession crisis may lead to political
unrest. That could endanger foreign investment needed to create
jobs and accelerate growth in the most populous Arab country.
When the president underwent surgery to remove his gallbladder
in March, investors dumped Egyptian shares and the benchmark
 EGX30 index  lost 6.7 percent in a week.  ‘Numerous’ Violations  The election saw a number of violations including vote-
rigging, violence and obstruction of opposition candidates, a
coalition of Egyptian human rights groups said yesterday.  New York-based  Human Rights Watch  said it had received
reports of “numerous” violations during the vote. These
included authorities detaining journalists and preventing the
staff of opposition candidates from entering 30 polling stations
the group visited, it said in a statement distributed to
reporters Nov. 29 in Cairo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abdel Latif Wahba  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 