-- Emerging-Market Stocks Rise Most in 11 Weeks on China Output, U.S. Jobs
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2010-12-01T14:36:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/emerging-market-stocks-rise-most-in-two-weeks-after-china-output-expands.html
Emerging-market stocks rose the most
in 11 weeks, currencies strengthened while borrowing costs fell
as better-than-estimated reports on Chinese manufacturing and
U.S. jobs eased concern the global economy is slowing.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  climbed 2 percent to
1,097.39 at 9:17 a.m. in New York, heading for its biggest gain
since Sept. 13. The extra yield on emerging-market governments’
dollar bonds over U.S. Treasuries dropped 19 basis points to
2.59 percentage points, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index
showed. India’s rupee, the Philippine peso and South Africa’s
rand strengthened at least 0.9 percent versus the dollar.  The MSCI gauge rebounded from its biggest monthly slump
since May after China’s logistics federation reported
manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in seven months in
November, while ADP Employer Services said companies in the U.S.
added 93,000 workers to payrolls. European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled that leaders may step up
their response to the region’s debt crisis.  “The manufacturing numbers in China came out stronger than
expected, things are actually not as bad as people believe it to
be,” said  Choo Swee Kee , who manages about $222 million as
chief investment officer of TA Investment Management Bhd. in
Kuala Lumpur. “The U.S. is also coming along fine.”  The MSCI Emerging Markets gauge lost 2.7 percent in
November amid speculation that higher interest rates in China
and Europe’s debt crisis will curb economic growth. Benchmark
equity indexes in 14 of 19 emerging markets open for trading
climbed more than 1 percent today.  Manufacturing Growth  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Hong Kong-traded
shares advanced 1 percent after the logistics federation’s
Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to 55.2 from 54.7 in October.
That was more than the 54.8 median estimate of 14 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. A PMI released by HSBC Holdings Plc
also jumped.  U.S. employment increased by the most since November 2007,
after a revised 82,000 rise in October that was almost double
the initial estimate, according to the figures from ADP. The
median projection of 40 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
called for a 70,000 gain last month. Small firms added more
workers than at any time since the recession began in December
2007.  The Markit iTraxx SOVX CEEMEA Index of credit-default swaps
for emerging Europe, the Middle East and Africa fell to 223.28
today from 230.5 yesterday, according to CMA prices. A decrease
in the gauge signals investors’ perception of credit quality is
improving.  Trichet told lawmakers yesterday that he didn’t believe
that financial stability in the euro zone “could really be
called into question,” stoking speculation policy makers
meeting tomorrow may indicate their willingness to curb the
spread of the region’s debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  