-- Emerging-Market Stocks Rise Most in 11 Weeks on China Output, U.S. Jobs
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2010-12-01T15:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/emerging-market-stocks-rise-most-in-11-weeks-on-china-output-u-s-jobs.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, with the
benchmark index headed for its biggest gain in 11 weeks, after
faster China manufacturing growth and rising U.S. consumer
sentiment bolstered confidence in the global recovery.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  climbed 2 percent to
1,097.6 as of 10:28 a.m., its first gain in four days. The gauge
was poised for its steepest rally since Sept. 13 Indonesia’s
Jakarta Composite index jumped 2.5 percent, the most since Sept.
15, while benchmark gauges for Hungary, the Czech Republic,  and
Russia advanced at least 2 percent. Stocks in India, South Korea
and Taiwan gained at least 1 percent.  “The manufacturing numbers in China came out stronger than
expected, things are actually not as bad as people believe it to
be,” said  Choo Swee Kee , who manages about $222 million as
chief investment officer of TA Investment Management Bhd. in
Kuala Lumpur. “The U.S. is also coming along fine.”  China’s  manufacturing  grew at a faster pace for a fourth
straight month, indicating the economy can withstand higher
interest rates as price pressures escalate, according to the
Purchasing Managers’ Index for November.  The Institute for Supply Management’s factory index
showed manufacturing in the U.S. expanded for a 16th consecutive
month in November. ADP Employer Services said companies added
93,000 jobs in November, more than economists had forecast.  The MSCI Emerging Markets gauge lost 2.7 percent in
November, the biggest monthly retreat since May amid speculation
China will increase interest rates and that Europe’s debt crisis
will spread.  China, India Stocks  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, added 0.1 percent. Huaneng Power
International Inc., China’s biggest electricity producer, gained
2.8 percent after saying it won approval for a non-public issue
of 1.5 billion A shares.  India’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index gained 1.7
percent, the most since Nov. 22. Suzlon Energy Ltd., India’s
largest maker of wind turbines, surged 8 percent after its
German unit won a supply contract in the U.K., while  JSW Steel
Ltd. , the third-largest producer of the alloy, gained 7 percent
after it was raised to “buy” from “neutral” at Nomura
Holdings Inc.  First Financial Holding Co.  surged 6.9 percent, leading
banking stocks higher in Taipei, after the Commercial Times
reported that local banks made a record pretax profit in the
first ten months of 2010. The Taiex Index gained 1.8 percent.  Bovespa, Baht  Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index rose 1.8 percent, snapping a
four-day decline. State oil producer  Petroleo Brasileiro SA 
gained the most in a week as crude climbed.  Usinas Siderurgicas
de Minas Gerais SA , Brazil’s second-biggest steelmaker, headed
to the largest jump in three weeks after a report said Brazil
car sales may reach the second-highest level on record in
November.  Thailand’s baht gained 0.5 percent to 30.05 per dollar, the
biggest rally in six weeks, while onshore interest-rate swaps
climbed to a three-week high after the central bank unexpectedly
raised interest rates.  Policy makers increased the one-day bond repurchase rate by
a quarter of a percentage point to 2 percent, a decision that
was predicted by only five of 17 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The Bank of Thailand left borrowing costs unchanged
at the previous meeting in October after lifting rates twice
this year previously.  Currencies elsewhere also gained, with the South Korean won
strengthening by 0.7 percent against the dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  