-- Europe Manufacturing Grows at Fastest Pace in Four Months, Led by Germany
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2010-12-01T09:37:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/europe-manufacturing-grows-at-fastest-pace-in-four-months-led-by-germany.html
Europe’s  manufacturing industries 
expanded at the fastest pace in four months in November, led by
Germany, the region’s largest economy.  A gauge of manufacturing in the 16-nation euro area rose to
55.3 from 54.6 in the previous month, London-based Markit
Economics said today. It had previously reported an increase to
55.5 in November. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  Germany has powered the region’s recovery as global demand
boosted sales at companies from  Daimler AG  to  BASF SE . The
European Commission said on Nov. 29 that while German growth
will outpace the euro region’s expansion this year, the
economies of Ireland, Spain and Greece may continue to shrink.  “Euro-zone economic activity lost momentum in the third
quarter and it seems likely to be relatively muted over the
coming months,” said  Howard Archer , chief European economist at
IHS Global Insight in London. “Tightening fiscal policy across
the region, high unemployment, recurring sovereign-risk problems
and slower global activity are serious threats.”  New orders at manufacturers rose at the fastest pace since
July and payrolls increased for a seventh month, Markit said.  ‘Less Rosy’  In Germany, the  manufacturing gauge  rose to 58.1, a three-
month high, from 56.6 the previous month, below an initial
estimate of 58.9. France’s indicator increased to a 10-year high
of 57.9 from 55.2, while the Italian gauge fell to 52 from 53.  Europe’s so-called peripheral nations continued to
struggle. Ireland’s index was 51.2, while Spanish manufacturing
stagnated and Greece’s contracted.  Beyond Germany and France, “conditions are far less rosy
in other parts of the euro zone,” said Markit Chief Economist
 Chris Williamson .  A Chinese  manufacturing gauge  rose more than economists
forecast in November, according to a report from the logistics
federation today. A PMI released by HSBC Holdings Plc also
jumped. In the U.S., the Institute for Supply Management’s
factory index probably declined to 56.5 from 56.9, according to
the median of 82 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Euro-region  growth  may weaken to 1.5 percent next year from
1.7 percent in 2010 as governments cut spending to reduce budget
deficits, the Brussels-based commission said this week. On Nov.
28, Ireland became the second euro nation to receive external
aid as officials sought to prevent a debt crisis from spreading.  Some companies have trimmed costs to revive earnings.
 ThyssenKrupp AG , Germany’s largest steelmaker, said yesterday
that it returned to profit in the fiscal year through September
after selling divisions and reducing its workforce. Euro-region
 unemployment  rose to 10.1 percent in October, the highest in
more than 12 years.  Markit said on Nov. 4 that a euro-area  services gauge  rose
to 55.2 in November from 53.3 in the previous month, while a
 composite index  increased to 55.4 from 53.8 in October. Markit
will release final figures for both indicators on Dec. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  