-- Debt Crisis Spreading to the Heart of Europe as Belgium Bond Yields Surge
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2010-12-01T10:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/european-contagion-spreads-to-region-s-core-as-belgian-bond-yields-surge.html
Europe’s sovereign crisis is
spreading to the heart of the 16-nation bloc as investors
question Belgium’s ability to cut the euro region’s third-
highest debt load, overshadowing its economic performance.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Belgian 10-year
bonds instead of benchmark German bunds of similar maturity has
more than doubled in the past four months and widened to 139
basis points yesterday, the most since at least 1993. The
Italian spread climbed to a euro-era high of 186 basis points.  The European Union’s 85 billion-euro ($111 billion) rescue
package for Ireland has failed to quell market turmoil as
investors shift their focus from peripheral states to countries
such as Belgium, whose capital of Brussels is home to the EU’s
political institutions. While the country’s economy has been
among the region’s growth drivers this year, inconclusive
elections have left it without a government, raising concerns on
its budget outlook.  “Belgium has moved to the foreground as investors ask
themselves ‘who’s next?’ to ask for help,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Groep NV in Brussels and a former
European Commission official. “While there’s little reason for
concern based on economic fundamentals, the country’s debt level
and political uncertainty added to speculation. Spreads are
already at stress levels.”  Belgium’s yield premium is still lower than those of the
euro region countries most threatened by the debt crisis.
Spain’s spread was at 262 basis points today, Ireland’s was at
659 basis points and Greece’s premium was at 911 basis points.  Unconvinced  Six months after the Greek rescue exposed flaws in the
euro’s makeup and fueled doubts whether 16 countries belong in
the same currency union, investors remain unconvinced.  Greek Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  last month
was forced to announce additional austerity measures, and Irish
Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  has pledged to cut spending by 6
billion euros in 2011 to push down the region’s largest deficit.  In Belgium, seven political parties involved in coalition
talks are still sparring over whether to grant more fiscal
autonomy for the country’s regions. Its public debt is
approaching 100 percent of gross domestic product and 65 billion
euros of bonds and bills are due to mature next year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Belgium’s borrowing costs for 10-year bonds rose to the
highest level in nine months in a sale of debt on Nov. 29. The
treasury sold 945 million euros of bonds due September 2020 to
yield 3.72 percent, the most since 3.76 percent in an auction of
same-maturity debt on Feb. 22.  ‘Self-Fulfilling Prophecy’  “Markets are going from the ones which look really
vulnerable to the ones which are slightly vulnerable,” said
 Nick Kounis , chief euro-region economist at ABN Amro NV in
Amsterdam. “If you’re worried about a country and you don’t
want to buy its bonds, its debt-servicing costs will shoot up.
There’s a high degree of self-fulfilling prophecy.”  The average interest rate Belgium pays on its outstanding
bonds is about 3.7 percent with an average maturity profile of 6
1/2 years, Jean Deboutte, director of strategy, risk management
and investor relations at the Brussels-based debt agency, said
by telephone on Nov. 29. That’s about 20 basis points more than
generic bond yields in the secondary market, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Debt-Strapped Nations  Belgium’s 10-year yield premium over German bunds narrowed
to 127 basis points today. Credit-default swaps on Belgian
government bonds fell to 196.6 from a record 204.9 yesterday,
according to CMA data.  The European Commission’s Nov. 29 forecasts show Europe’s
sixth-largest economy may outpace the euro region and expand 2
percent this year and 1.8 percent in 2011, helping push down the
budget deficit. Gross debt may still reach 100.5 percent of GDP
next year, exceeding the EU’s 60 percent limit of GDP.  While EU officials agreed on a mechanism to smooth bond
restructurings after 2013, investors are speculating that debt-
strapped nations won’t be able to cut deficits fast enough.  “The market is nervous to an extent that any country with
a high debt level or a high budget deficit is being punished by
investors,” said  Christoph Weil , a senior economist at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “European leaders are still
underestimating the market dynamics.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
 John Martens  in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 