-- European Banks Dominated Use of Fed's Commercial-Paper Program Amid Crisis
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2010-12-01T23:55:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/european-banks-dominated-use-of-fed-s-commercial-paper-program.html
The U.S. subsidiaries of European
financial institutions, led by Zurich-based  UBS AG  and Brussels-
based  Dexia SA , were some of the largest users of a government
program to provide emergency short-term funding to companies
during the credit crisis.  Six European banks were among the top 11 companies that
sold the most debt overall -- a combined $274.1 billion -- to
the Commercial Paper Funding Facility. UBS sold $74.5 billion,
the most of any of the borrowers, according to data made public
today by the Federal Reserve. The largest U.S.-based user was
insurer  American International Group Inc ., at $60.2 billion.  The $74.5 billion represents total sales by UBS over the
life of the program. The bank’s CPFF borrowings peaked at $37.2
billion, an amount the company rolled over, or re-sold at
maturity, once, according to  Karina Byrne , a UBS spokeswoman.
Other companies also rolled over debt in the program.  Byrne said the bank’s tapping the Fed fund “should be seen
in the context of our overall desire to maintain flexibility and
diversification in our funding sources, even during the
crisis.” She said the company’s use of all the central bank
programs “was relatively modest.”  The CPFF was the only Fed effort during the crisis that
lent directly to non-financial companies, including  Harley-
Davidson Inc . in Milwaukee. None of the debt purchased
defaulted, and the Fed earned $6.1 billion in interest income
and usage fees through CPFF, according to the central bank.  Dexia’s $53.5 Billion  The Fed released the details to meet disclosure
requirements in the Dodd-Frank financial-oversight law signed by
President  Barack Obama  in July. The central bank has never
before revealed transaction-level aspects of its lending.  Dexia tapped CPFF for $53.5 billion. Other European users
included Barclays Plc in London at $38.8 billion; Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc at $38.5 billion; and Paris-based Natixis at
$27 billion.  “Given the importance of Natixis in the U.S., it was, for
us, natural that we participate in this program like all the
banks,” said  Victoria Eideliman , a spokeswoman for
Natixis, in a phone interview. “When we participated, the
liquidity situation was very tense.”  The Fed listed borrowing for Paris-based BNP Paribas at
$41.8 billion, which includes funding to Fortis Bank, which
joined the French company in 2009.  Extra Liquidity  “BNP Paribas Fortis has not needed any extra liquidity
assistance from any Federal Reserve program for almost one
year,” the company said in a statement.  RBS has repaid the Fed with interest, said Michael
Strachan, a spokesman for the bank.  Mark Lane  of Barclays
declined to comment.  Ulrike Pommee  of Dexia didn’t return a
message.  The Fed started the special fund on Oct. 27, 2008, to
unlock the flow of commercial paper, short-term notes companies
sell to raise cash for day-to-day expenses such as payroll and
rent. The market -- at the time was valued at $1.4 trillion --
had seized up after the Sept. 15 bankruptcy of investment bank
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc . and the subsequent run by
investors on money market funds, the largest collective buyers
of commercial paper.  ‘Enormous Jolt’  During the initial week of the program’s operation, the
amount of outstanding commercial paper rose for the first time
in seven weeks. That provided “an enormous jolt of not just
liquidity but stimulus to the economy,” Tom Sowanick, chief
investment officer at Clearbrook Financial LLC in Princeton, New
Jersey, said in an Oct. 30, 2008, Bloomberg Television
interview.  Harley-Davidson participated in the CPFF program to help
fund its consumer-finance unit, which supplies loans and
insurance to its dealers and customers,  Bob Klein , a spokesman,
said in an interview.  Fed data also show funds went to Caterpillar Financial
Services. The leasing arm is the guarantor of commercial paper
issued by about 20 dealers, said  Jim Dugan , a spokesman for
Peoria, Illinois-based Caterpillar Inc., the world’s largest
maker of construction and mining equipment.  “This is very different than other corporate entities”
that took funds, Dugan said.  Administered by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the
fund purchased approximately $740 billion of debt over its life,
according to Fed data. Holdings  peaked  at $350 billion in the
week ended Jan. 22, 2009.  Cheaper Financing  The Fed bought 90-day debt at rates below those demanded by
private investors, initially paying 1.88 percent for unsecured
and 3.88 percent for asset-backed commercial paper. The rates
were 1.15 percent and 3.15 percent, respectively, when the fund
expired on Feb. 1.  Commercial paper, usually an unsecured promissory note
maturing in one to 270 days, can provide cheaper financing than
a line of credit from a bank. Maturities average 30 days,
according to the Fed. Financial institutions typically issue
collateralized, or asset-backed, commercial paper.  There was $1.05 trillion in outstanding commercial paper,
not seasonally adjusted, in the U.S. as of Nov. 17, according to
central bank data.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Christopher Condon  in
Boston at   ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
 Bradley Keoun  in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Voskuhl at 
 jvoskuhl@bloomberg.net  