-- Euro Rises on Prospect ECB May Take Steps to Contain Sovereign Debt Crisis
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-12-01T22:05:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/euro-rebounds-versus-dollar-yen-on-speculation-month-s-sell-off-overdone.html
The euro rallied versus the dollar
and yen for the first time in four days as speculation increased
the European Central Bank may signal tomorrow its willingness to
step up efforts to curb the spread of the region’s debt crisis.  The shared currency reached the day’s high after Reuters
reported the U.S. would back increasing the size of the European
Union’s rescue pool through the commitment of more money from
the International Monetary Fund. A U.S. official denied the
report. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said yesterday in
Brussels he didn’t believe the region’s financial stability was
in question and signaled more bond purchases were possible.  “This is very beneficial for the euro,” said  Jessica Hoversen , a Chicago-based analyst at the futures broker MF
Global Holdings Ltd. “The selloff was broad in the euro, and
you have to anticipate the fact that the ECB is going to act.”  The euro rose 1.2 percent to $1.3139 at 5 p.m. in New York,
from $1.2983 yesterday, when it touched $1.2969, the lowest
level since Sept. 15. It climbed as high as $1.3182. The
currency dropped 6.9 percent in November, the biggest monthly
loss since May.  The shared currency climbed 1.8 percent to 110.58 yen, from
108.65 yesterday. The dollar appreciated 0.6 percent to 84.19
yen, from 83.69.  Dollar Index Falls  The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
six trading partners including the euro and yen,  fell  for the
first time in four days, even as the Federal Reserve’s Beige
Book business survey said the economy gained strength across
much of the U.S. The index declined 0.6 percent to 80.685.  Stocks climbed after data showed manufacturing expanded in
China, the U.S. and Europe. The  MSCI World Index  gained 1.9
percent and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 2.2
percent. The Reuters-Jefferies  CRB Index  of raw materials surged
2.5 percent.  South Africa’s rand appreciated against most of the
dollar’s 16 major counterparts as commodities gained. It climbed
as much as 1.4 percent to touch 7.0008 per greenback, the
strongest level in a week.  Other currencies tied to growth such as the Canadian and
Australian dollars strengthened as data showed Chinese
manufacturing expanded more than forecast. China’s  Purchasing
Managers’ Index  climbed for a fourth month in November, reaching
55.2 from 54.7 in October, according to a logistics federation
report. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey was 54.8.  Canadian, Australian Dollars  The Canadian currency jumped 0.9 percent to C$1.0170 per
U.S. dollar and the Aussie rose 1 percent to 96.81 U.S. cents.  Spanish 10-year government bonds rose, snapping an 11-day
decline and pushing yields down 22 basis points to 5.28 percent
on speculation the ECB may move to curb debt-crisis contagion.
It was the biggest drop on a closing basis since May. Portuguese
two-year debt  rose , sending the yield as much as 24 basis points
lower to 4.59 percent.  The ECB’s Governing Council will meet tomorrow amid
speculation it will again delay its exit from emergency
liquidity measures. Economists forecast policy makers will keep
the benchmark interest rate at 1 percent.  “I don’t believe that financial stability in the euro zone
could really be called into question,” Trichet told lawmakers.
The ECB’s bond program is “ongoing” and “we will see what we
decide.”  Speculation the debt crisis will spread to Portugal and
Spain grew after an 85 billion-euro ($112 billion) aid package
led by European Union governments and the International Monetary
Fund was authorized on Nov. 28 for Ireland.  Bailout Fund  In May, European officials set up a 750 billion-euro
bailout fund with IMF support after Greece’s budget-deficit
emergency. On the same day, the ECB took the unprecedented step
of agreeing to buy government bonds to try to restore normal
functioning on Europe’s bond markets.  The euro briefly extended gains after Reuters reported,
citing an unnamed U.S. official, a bailout-fund expansion would
be Europe’s decision. A U.S. official in Washington told
Bloomberg the U.S. is not discussing extra IMF money for Europe.  “What we’re seeing is a heightened degree of volatility,
pretty sharp intraday moves in both directions considering
what’s been going in Europe with the ECB,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency strategy at Wells Fargo & Co. in
New York.  The dollar is benefiting from Europe’s woes, while the U.S.
economy is in a “gradual state of repair” and should avoid
falling back into recession, said  Richard Fisher , president of
the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. He spoke to reporters today
after a speech in Killeen, Texas.  Bullish on Euro  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. forecast the euro will climb to
$1.50 by the end of 2011.  “Despite the improving U.S. growth picture, we continue to
forecast a decline in the U.S. dollar on a broad basis, although
we have tempered the path of decline somewhat on the back of our
increased optimism on U.S. growth,” Goldman economists led by
 Dominic Wilson  wrote in a report to clients today.  The dollar fell versus most major peers even as the
Institute for Supply Management’s factory index showed U.S.
manufacturing expanded for a 16th straight month in November.  In U.S. central bank’s Beige Book, five Fed banks said the
economy grew “at a slight to modest” rate, five others reported
a “somewhat stronger pace” and two said conditions were “mixed.”  European manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in four
months in November. A factory gauge of the euro area rose to
55.3 from 54.6 in October, London-based Markit Economics said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  