-- European Snow May Disrupt Travel for Third Day After London City Shutdown
-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n   a n d   R e n e e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2010-12-01T02:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/europe-braces-as-another-wintry-day-of-cold-and-snow-is-forecast.html
Air services across Europe may be in
for a third day of disruptions, with snow and bad weather
threatening more flight cancellations and delays like those that
hit airports yesterday, including in Frankfurt, London,
Amsterdam and Edinburgh.  The runway at London’s City Airport was closed for most of
yesterday and is unlikely to open again until at least 6:30 a.m.
today, spokeswoman Geraldine Nolan said by telephone late
yesterday.  Frankfurt Airport is experiencing delays and flight
cancellations because of the weather, according to its website.
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG  has had flights delayed and canceled in
Frankfurt and Munich as a result of the snowfall, the airline
said on its website.  Cold temperatures and snow are forecast for Germany today
and tomorrow, according to AccuWeather.Com. The earliest
widespread snowfall of a British winter since 1993 led to “icy
roads and heavy snow” across most parts of the country, the  Met
Office  said on its website, and cold conditions are expected to
continue in the center and the northeast of the U.K. today.  London Gatwick Airport said it canceled 10 of 575 scheduled
flights yesterday. Edinburgh Airport was open after shutting in
the morning “due to heavy snowfall,”  BAA Airports Ltd.  said on
its website. Passengers at London’s Stansted airport were
advised to contact their airline before travelling. Some flights
were also stopped out of Amsterdam airport.  Finland Strike  Flight services in Europe have also been disrupted as
flight attendants in Finland started an open-ended strike in a
work-rules dispute.  Finnair Oyj  said it will cancel more than
half its flights, and  SAS Group ’s Blue1 unit will cut at least
20 percent of services after the Finnish Cabin Crew Union
stopped work yesterday.  Weather disruption could cost the U.K. economy 1.2 billion
pounds ($1.9 billion) a day, as supply services are affected and
shopping disrupted in the run-in to Christmas, according to  RSA
Insurance Group Plc , the U.K.’s biggest non-life insurer by
market value.  “If the weather continues for the next two weeks, as the
Met Office is predicting, this figure will quickly spiral to
more than 12 billion pounds, dwarfing the hit we took in
January,” RSA Director David Greaves said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  “The origins of the winds are from Russia and Siberia, so
it’s pretty cold,” said Met Office spokesman Barry Gromett
yesterday. Many areas today will be “blanketed in snow.”  Gas Costs  U.K. power for next-day delivery rose to its highest level
in 22 months Nov. 29 as natural gas costs increased and the
weather conditions boosted demand.  National Grid Plc , the U.K.’s gas and power network
manager, said demand rose 5 percent to 435 million cubic meters
in the 24 hours through 6 a.m. yesterday, 90 million more than
normal for the time of year. That’s the highest gas usage since
Jan. 13.  Natural gas is used to heat about 80 percent of homes and
businesses and to generate about half of the country’s
electricity. The U.K. is Europe’s biggest gas user.  Heavy snowfall in central France cut power to as many as
25,000 households Nov. 29 as Electricite de France SA, Europe’s
biggest operator of nuclear reactors, asked customers to limit
use amid a cold snap expected to last a week.  -- With assistance by  Alan Purkiss ,  Lars Paulsson ,  Catherine Airlie  in London,  Oliver Suess  in Munich,  Cornelius Rahn ,  Mike Gavin  in Frankfurt,  Holger Elfes  in Dusseldorf,  Fred Pals  in
Amsterdam,  Rodney Jefferson  in Edinburgh,  Tara Patel  in Paris,
 Ola Kinnander  in Stockholm,  Kati Pohjanpalo  in Helsinki.
Editors:  John Simpson , Ben Livesey  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Renee Lawrence  in London at 
 rlawrence7@bloomberg.net 
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Jordan  in London at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net . 