-- Europe's Stability Fund May Sell 8 Billion Euros in Bonds Early Next Year
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-12-01T11:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/european-emergency-aid-fund-plans-bond-sale-for-irish-rescue-regling-says.html
Europe’s financial backstop set up to
provide emergency loans to indebted nations plans to sell as
much as 8 billion euros ($10.5 billion) in debt in January to
fund aid to Ireland, Chief Executive Officer  Klaus Regling  said.  The European Financial Stability Facility may issue between
5 billion euros and 8 billion euros of bonds, Regling said at an
event in Singapore today. Most of the bonds will probably be
sold in Europe, while Asian and Middle East investors are also
interested, he said, adding that he doesn’t see much demand in
the U.S.  “I have talked to around 150 of the largest investors”
about the bonds, Regling said. “Most will be taken up in
Europe, not so much in the U.S., because the U.S. is running a
current-account deficit so they need their own financing.”  European authorities approved an aid package for Ireland on
Nov. 28 when it became the second euro-area nation after Greece
to seek financial help. The assistance followed a surge in bond
spreads among Europe’s so-called peripheral nations that raised
concerns the debt crisis may spread across the currency region.
The EFSF’s contribution to Ireland amounts to 17.7 billion
euros, excluding bilateral loans from the U.K., Sweden and
Denmark, according to a Nov. 28 statement issued in Brussels.  For Asian and Middle Eastern buyers, the EFSF will be a
“new way to diversify for investors who are looking for high-
quality triple-A assets,” Regling said. “That’s why they are
quite interested in this.”  The yield on EFSF bonds will be a “little bit” above that
of German bunds, Europe’s benchmark, Regling said. It will be an
“average” of Europe’s AAA-rated nations, he said, mentioning
Germany, France, Austria and the Netherlands.  ‘Tension’  While there is “continued uncertainty and tension,” it is
“wrong” to say Europe is “disintegrating, the euro about to
disappear,” he said.  The premium investors charge to hold  Irish 10-year debt 
over bunds was at 659 basis points today after widening to a
euro-era record 680 basis points yesterday. The yield spread for
 Portugal  narrowed to 408 basis points from 430 basis points
yesterday. It reached a record 484 basis points on Nov. 11.  “Europe has taken action over recent months to tackle
sovereign-debt issues in the euro zone and it has shown that it
is serious about the protection of the euro,” Regling said.
Rising bond spreads in some euro nations may have reflected a
“flight to safety based on overall market uncertainty,” and
people should be “very cautious” about interpreting these as
an increasing risk of default, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  