-- European Stocks Surge Most in Three Months; BHP, Santander Jump
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-12-01T17:19:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/european-u-s-stock-index-futures-rise-bhp-billiton-rio-tinto-may-gain.html
European stocks  jumped by the most in
three months, rebounding from an eight-week low, amid
speculation European Central Bank policy makers may step up
measures to contain the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group soared more than 3
percent as Chinese manufacturing expanded for a fourth month.
Banco Santander SA and Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA led a rally
in banks as European bond risk fell from record levels.
 Carrefour SA  plunged the most in seven months after the world’s
second-largest retailer cut its earnings forecast.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  soared 2 percent to
267.11 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, the biggest gain since
Sept. 1. The gauge had retreated for the past three days as a
European Union-led bailout of Ireland failed to reassure
investors that the debt crisis won’t spread.  “Given the severity of recent declines it’s not surprising
to see a bounce today,” said  Ioan Smith , a London-based
director at Knight Capital Europe Ltd. “The focus very much
remains on what’s happening in bond markets. It’s all about what
the ECB does next. This is a big moment for the market, it will
go a long way in determining what happens next year.”  The euro rose against the dollar and the yen on speculation
ECB policy makers will again delay their exit from emergency
liquidity measures at tomorrow’s meeting of the Governing
Council in Frankfurt.  Benchmark Indexes  National benchmark indexes advanced in all 18 western
European markets, with gauges in Spain, Italy and Greece rising
more than 2 percent. Portugal’s  PSI-20  rallied 3 percent even as
Standard & Poor’s said it may cut the nation’s credit rating.  BHP Billiton, the world’s largest mining company, gained
3.4 percent to 2,363 pence as copper led base metals higher on
the LME. Rio Tinto advanced 3.1 percent to 4,207 pence. Xstrata
Plc jumped 5.8 percent to 1,367 pence.  China’s  Purchasing Managers’ Index  for November rose to
55.2, the fastest pace in seven months, from 54.7 in October,
according to the China Federation of Logistics & Purchasing. The
result was more than the 54.8 median economist forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Santander, Spain’s largest bank, surged 7.2 percent to 7.82
euros and BBVA climbed 7.3 percent to 7.59 euros. EFG Eurobank
Ergasias SA, Greece’s second-largest lender, rallied 11 percent
to 4.28 euros and Italy’s Banca Carige SpA increased 6.5 percent
to 1.6 euros.  Banks Gain  A  gauge of European bank stocks  climbed the most in four
months as Portugal and Ireland led a decline in the cost of
insuring against losses on government and corporate bonds in
Europe. Contracts on Belgium, Italy, and Spain also fell from
record levels, helping to push down the region’s benchmark index
of sovereign swaps from an all-time high.  Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann 
said investors’ mistrust of Spain was unjustified and problems
in the banking industry are “manageable.”  Porsche SE  climbed 6.2 percent to 61.43 euros after
investors approved plans for a 5 billion-euro ($6.5 billion)
stock sale to reduce the sports-car maker’s debt as it prepares
to combine with Volkswagen AG, Europe’s largest carmaker.  VW preferred shares gained 3.2 percent to 127.80 euros.  Royal Philips Electronics NV rose 3.3 percent to 21.49
euros after the world’s biggest lighting company confirmed its
 forecast  for 2010 earnings before interest, taxes, and
amortization.  U.K. Insurers  Prudential Plc climbed 5.5 percent to 599 pence, pacing a
rally in U.K. insurers, after saying it plans to double profit
in Asia by 2013.  Separately, the Nikkei newspaper reported that MS&AD
Insurance Group Holdings Inc. is seeking to acquire a U.K.
insurer, citing an interview with  Yasuyoshi Karasawa , president
of the unit.  Aviva Plc, the U.K.’s second-biggest insurer, rose 4.1
percent to 369.2 pence and Legal & General Group Plc increased
3.5 percent to 94.6 pence.  De La Rue Plc  soared 10 percent to 637 pence, the biggest
gain in seven years, after the Financial Times cited a BofA
Merrill Lynch report giving the world’s biggest printer of
banknotes a “fair value” of as much as 830 pence a share.  Sage Group Plc, the U.K.’s largest software maker, gained
5.3 percent to 271 pence after full-year profit beat analyst
expectations.  Rival  Micro Focus International Plc  advanced 8.5 percent to
359.4 pence as Jefferies Group Inc. upgraded the shares to
“hold” from “underperform,” citing “a period of sustained
underperformance.”  Bwin, PartyGaming  Bwin Interactive Entertainment AG and PartyGaming Plc, the
online gambling companies that are in the process of merging,
climbed 8.4 percent to 35.05 euros and 7.5 percent to 252 pence,
respectively.  Carrefour posted the biggest decline in the Stoxx 600,
plummeting 5.6 percent to 32.90 euros, the biggest drop since
May. The retailer cut its 2010 profit forecast for the second
time in two months, citing increased writedowns in Brazil and
lower-than-expected demand in Europe.  Analysts at Deutsche Bank AG and Barclays Plc lowered their
 recommendations  for Carrefour’s shares to “hold” and “equal
weight,” respectively. Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and
Citigroup Inc. reduced their share-price estimates.  Thomas Cook Group Plc fell 4.5 percent to 178 pence.
Europe’s second-biggest tour operator posted a full-year loss of
2.6 million pounds ($4 million) as the shutdown of European
airspace after a volcanic eruption disrupted travel business and
led to one-time costs.  Numis Securities lowered its recommendation for the  tour
operator  to “hold” from “add.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 