-- Euro Holds Gain on Speculation ECB Will Take Steps to Counter Debt Crisis
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-12-01T23:46:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/euro-holds-gain-on-speculation-ecb-will-take-steps-to-counter-debt-crisis.html
The euro held yesterday’s biggest
gain in six weeks against the dollar on speculation European
Central Bank policy makers will today announce steps to stem the
region’s debt crisis.  The shared currency maintained its advance versus the yen
as the head of Europe’s rescue fund said it plans sell as much
as 8 billion euros ($10.5 billion) in debt to finance aid to
Ireland. The dollar traded near a two-month high against the yen
after the Federal Reserve said yesterday the economy gained
strength across much of the U.S. as hiring improved.  “The markets are expecting the ECB to do something,” said
 Khoon Goh , head of market economics and strategy at ANZ
National Bank Ltd. in Wellington. “The euro seems to be
supported, but it needs some concrete action coming from the ECB
and other officials to say the right things.”  The euro traded at $1.3127 as of 8:41 a.m. in Tokyo from
$1.3139 in New York yesterday, when it climbed 1.2 percent, the
most since Oct. 20. The common currency was at 110.49 yen from
110.58. The dollar bought 84.18 yen from 84.19 yen.  The ECB’s Governing Council will meet today amid
expectations it will again delay its exit from emergency
liquidity measures. Economists forecast policy makers will keep
the benchmark interest rate at 1 percent.  ‘Financial Stability’  “I don’t believe that financial stability in the euro zone
could really be called into question,” Trichet told lawmakers
this week. The ECB’s bond program is “ongoing” and “we will
see what we decide.”  The European Financial Stability Facility may issue between
5 billion euros and 8 billion euros of bonds in January to fund
aid to Ireland, Chief Executive Officer  Klaus Regling  said
yesterday.  Speculation the debt crisis will spread to Portugal and
Spain grew after European authorities approved an 85 billion-
euro aid package for Ireland on Nov. 28 when it became the
second euro-area nation after Greece to seek financial help.  The assistance followed a surge in bond spreads among
Europe’s so-called peripheral nations that raised concerns the
debt crisis will worsen across the currency region. The EFSF’s
contribution to Ireland amounts to 17.7 billion euros, excluding
bilateral loans from the U.K., Sweden and Denmark, according to
a Nov. 28 statement issued in Brussels.  Spain’s 10-year government bonds rose yesterday, snapping
an 11-day decline and pushing yields down 21 basis points to
5.29 percent on speculation the ECB may move to curb debt-crisis
contagion. The drop was the biggest on a closing basis since May.
Portuguese two-year debt also  gained , sending the yield eight
basis points lower to 4.74 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Tokyo at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 