-- Ex-Citi Property Banker to Raise $350 Million for Indian Real Estate Fund
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 2010-12-01T05:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/ex-citi-property-banker-to-raise-350-million-for-indian-real-estate-fund.html
Ravi Hansoty , the former head of the
Asia-Pacific region at  Citi Property Investors , plans to raise
as much as $350 million by the end of next year for an India
property fund.  The fund aims to buy land to build apartments and hotels in
India as early as June, said Hansoty, who left  Citigroup Inc. ’s
real estate asset management unit in November. Hansoty said he
will set up his company in Mumbai and may relocate from Hong
Kong after he stops accepting new money from investors.  Hansoty aims to take advantage of increasing demand for
housing in one of Asia’s fastest growing economies. Eight funds
are raising $1.6 billion to invest in India, London-based
research firm  Preqin Ltd.  said in a November report, while an
estimated 38 million homes are needed in the nation of 1.2
billion people by 2030, according to San Francisco-based
McKinsey Global Institute.  “Home ownership is extremely low in India,” said Hansoty
in a telephone interview from Hong Kong yesterday. “There is
significant demand that is going to come online in the future
for housing needs.”  Development projects will be done with joint-venture
partners who would be responsible for building the apartments
and hotels, Hansoty said.  Total real-estate transactions in India rose 17 percent in
the nine months ended Sept. 30 from a year earlier, according to
 Real Capital Analytics Inc. , a New York-based property-data
provider.  Hotel Demand  The fund will seek to develop hotels and buy existing ones
amid rising demand for business and leisure travel in the
country, Hansoty said.  Fairmont Raffles Holdings International plans to add six
hotels under its Swissotel brand in India in the next five years
to tap the growing demand for business travel in the country,
Aiden McAuley, vice president of Asia-Pacific region for
Swissotel Hotels & Resorts, said Nov. 22.  The occupancy rate for hotels in India rose 7.8 percent
last year because of domestic demand, according to a report by
 HVS , a global hospitality consultancy. Revenue per available
room more than doubled to 4,177 rupees ($91) from 1,889 rupees
in the last decade, the report showed.  The segment that offers the best opportunity is the one for
hotels in the $100 to $150 per night price range because they
never existed in India until recent years, Hansoty said.  ‘Plenty of Opportunity’  “In that segment, there are very few hotels which have
branded, meaning you have a recognized brand which one can
relate to and have a chain of these hotels across India,”
Hansoty said. “Given the size of the country, there is plenty
of opportunity to do that in multiple cities.”  While with Citi Property, Hansoty invested in five hotels
in India under the Aloft brand, part of White Plains, New York-
based  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. , he said. Two
were completed this year and the rest are due to be completed
next year, he added.  The fund may also invest in real-estate companies that have
recently been listed and haven’t performed well, and developers
whose shares had dropped, Hansoty said.  “There may be some opportunities to go back and work with
those companies to recapitalize their balance sheet,” he said.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Realty  Index , which tracks the
nation’s 13 developers, rose 3.2 percent as of 10:46 a.m. local
time, compared with a 1 percent gain by the benchmark Bombay
Stock Exchange Sensitive Index.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Realty Index dropped 22 percent
in November to the lowest in more than a year. Stocks were
weighed as India’s Central Bureau of Investigation probed
whether preferential treatment was given to developers.  Betting on Growth  Only two out of five Indian real estate companies that
listed their shares since the beginning of this year traded
above its opening price, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The fund, which has a target return of about 20 percent,
will have a three-year investment period and aims to exit the
investments over the following five years, Hansoty said.  India’s gross domestic product expanded 8.9 percent in the
three months ended September from a year earlier, exceeding 8
percent growth for a third straight quarter, a government report
showed yesterday.  “When we look at the GDP growth for India, there are
probably very few countries in the world which are growing at a
rate of about 7 percent in an economy that is sizeable enough to
have an impact,” said Hansoty, who oversaw property investments
in Asia worth about $3 billion at Citigroup, Morgan Stanley and
The John Buck Company. “Here is a market where you have
everything sitting at the right place if you are looking for
long-term growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kathleen Chu  in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  