-- Failed Reserve Primary Tops Users of Fed's Aid to U.S. Money Market Funds
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2010-12-01T23:24:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/failed-reserve-primary-tops-users-of-fed-s-aid-to-u-s-money-market-funds.html
Reserve Primary , the money-market
mutual fund whose September 2008 collapse helped freeze global
credit markets, was the biggest user of a government-backed
program that enabled the industry to meet investor withdrawals
during the financial crisis.  Vanguard Group Inc. and Legg Mason Inc. were the only
money-fund providers among the industry’s top 10 that didn’t
utilize the Federal Reserve’s Asset-Backed Commercial Paper
Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility, or AMLF, according
to data released today by the U.S. central bank. Funds run by
JPMorgan Chase & Co. sold $17.7 billion in asset-backed
commercial paper to banks under the program, more than any
family except Reserve.  The Fed opened the program on Sept. 19, 2008, when prices
for commercial paper plunged following the bankruptcy of
investment bank  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc . and as investors
fled money-market funds that held corporate debt. The AMLF,
administered by the Boston Fed, peaked at $152 billion in
purchased assets on Oct. 1, 2008, and ended Feb. 1, 2010.  The Dodd-Frank financial regulatory overhaul approved by
Congress in July required the Fed to release information about
its lending programs. The central bank has never before made
public specific, transaction-level detail about its lending.  Reserve Primary sold $19.4 billion in holdings while it was
being liquidated. JPMorgan’s $132.3 billion Prime Money Market
Fund, the largest money-market mutual fund, sold the next
highest amount at $15.6 billion. Funds provided by Bank of New
York Mellon Corp. under the Dreyfus brand were the third-largest
family of users, selling $16.7 billion.  Fidelity Funds  Funds operated by Fidelity Investments, the largest
provider of U.S. money-market mutual funds, sold $5.4 billion in
holdings.  Frank Bonanno, a spokesman for New York-based Reserve
Management Corp., didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for New York’s
JPMorgan Chase & Co., declined to comment.  Rebecca Katz, a Vanguard spokeswoman, said the firm decided
before global credit markets froze to stop buying asset-backed
debt.  “We had concerns that even the superior programs might
have problems rolling over their paper, and therefore had ceased
purchasing them,” she said.  Mary Athridge , a Legg Mason spokeswoman, declined to
comment. The firm’s money funds are sold under the Western Asset
brand name.  Under the program, the Fed lent money to U.S. banks and
branches of foreign banks that used the cash to buy
collateralized debt at face value from money-market funds. The
program allowed funds, which held $3.4 trillion in assets, to
meet redemptions without being forced to sell holdings into a
plummeting market for commercial paper. Banks weren’t required
to repay the Fed loans if the debt they purchased defaulted.  $230 Billion Withdrawn  Two days after Lehman filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 15,
2008, Reserve Primary, which held debt from the bank, became the
second money fund in the industry’s 40-year history to saddle
investors with a loss. Worried that losses would affect other
funds, investors withdrew $230 billion from money funds in the
week ending Sept. 19.  Commercial paper fell further as investors, including money
funds, rushed for the safety of Treasury securities. Declining
prices pushed some funds to the edge of collapse as they sold
securities at a loss to fund customer withdrawals. A loss
representing more than 0.5 percent of a fund’s net assets causes
the share price to drop from $1, the industry’s fixed standard,
to 99 cents.  Putnam Investments LLC closed its $12.3 billion
institutional Putnam Prime Money Market Fund, whose holdings
hadn’t suffered any default, on Sept. 18, 2008, to prevent its
collapse under withdrawal requests. Closing the fund gave
Boston-based Putnam seven days to fulfill redemptions. Within a
week it sold the fund to Pittsburgh’s  Federated Investors Inc .,
the third-largest money-market mutual fund provider, according
to Crane Data LLC in Westborough, Massachusetts. Federated
promised to honor withdrawals.  Fund companies have since worked to create an industry-
funded emergency liquidity bank for money funds that would
operate similarly to the AMLF.  The proposed facility, outlined in a March 15 speech by
 Paul Schott Stevens , president of the Washington-based
Investment Company Institute, would protect money funds that
invest in corporate debt. It would step in to buy securities at
face value in the event of a financial crisis. As a bank, the
proposed facility would ultimately have access to the Fed’s
discount lending window.  Commercial paper typically represents an unsecured
promissory note maturing in 1 to 270 days. Maturities average 30
days, according to the Fed. Banks and other financial
institutions typically issue asset-backed commercial paper.  There was $387.6 billion in outstanding asset-backed
commercial paper in the U.S. as of Nov. 17, Fed data show. On
Sept. 17, 2008, the last reporting date before the AMLF began
operating, there was $711.9 billion.  Money funds held $2.8 trillion in assets as of Nov. 30,
according to research firm iMoneyNet Inc., also in Westborough.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  