-- Fed Names Recipients of $3.3 Trillion in Crisis Aid
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2010-12-01T18:52:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/fed-names-recipients-of-3-3-trillion-of-aid-during-u-s-financial-crisis.html
The Federal Reserve, under orders
from Congress, today named the counterparties of about 21,000
transactions from $3.3 trillion in aid provided to stem the
worst financial panic since the Great Depression.  Bank of  America Corp.  and  Wells Fargo & Co.  were among the
biggest borrowers from one program, the Term Auction Facility,
with as much as $45 billion apiece. Some aid went to U.S. units
of foreign institutions, including Switzerland’s  UBS AG ,
France’s Societe Generale and Germany’s  Dresdner Bank AG . The
Fed posted the data on its  website  to comply with a provision in
July’s Dodd-Frank law overhauling financial regulation.  “We owe an accounting to the American people of who we
have lent money to,” Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  said
today in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays
Advantage,” with  Kathleen Hays . “It is a good step toward
broader transparency.”  Even so, the release may heighten political scrutiny of the
central bank already at its most intense in three decades. The
Fed’s Nov. 3 decision to add $600 billion of monetary stimulus
has sparked a backlash from top Republicans in Congress, who
said in a Nov. 17 letter to Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  that the
action risks inflation and asset-price bubbles.  “These disclosures come at a politically inopportune
moment for the Fed,”  Sarah Binder , a senior fellow at the
Brookings Institution in Washington whose research focuses on
Congress’s relationship with the Fed, said before the release.
“Just when Chairman Bernanke is trying to defend the Fed from
Republican critics of its asset purchases, the Fed’s wounds from
the financial crisis are reopened.”  Six Programs  The information, which also includes the amounts of
transactions and interest rates charged, spans six loan programs
as well as currency swaps with other central banks, purchases of
mortgage-backed securities and the rescues of Bear Stearns Cos.
and  American International Group Inc.   The data detail the breadth of central bank support that
reached beyond banks to companies such as General Electric Co.,
which accessed a Fed program 12 times for a total of $16 billion
in commercial paper. Lawmakers demanded disclosure, over the
Fed’s initial objections, as U.S. central bankers pushed beyond
their traditional role of backstopping banks. The Fed bought
short-term IOUs from corporations, risky assets from Bear
Stearns and more than $1 trillion in U.S. housing debt.  Need for Liquidity  “Consistent with what we said at the time, we participated
in the program to support investors’ need for liquidity during
the financial crisis and to manage the company’s commercial-
paper maturity profile,” said  Russell Wilkerson , a GE
spokesman.  Companies’ participation in the programs “reflected the
severe market disruptions during the financial crisis and
generally did not reflect participants’ financial weakness,”
the Fed said today in a statement in Washington. “The Federal
Reserve followed sound risk-management practices in
administering all of these programs” and incurred no credit
losses, the statement said.  At Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Wall Street’s most profitable
securities firm, borrowing from the Primary Dealer Credit
Facility peaked at $24 billion in October 2008. “Without
question, direct government support was critical in stabilizing
the financial system, and we benefitted from it,” Chief
Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  said in January 2010.  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman in New York,
said today that the Fed’s actions “were very successful.”  Dollar Squeeze  The presence of foreign banks in the program underscores
the squeeze in dollar liquidity after the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. on Sept. 15, 2008. UBS, Switzerland’s
largest bank, was the biggest borrower from the Commercial Paper
Funding Facility, tapping the program 11 times for $74.5
billion.  The emergency programs included the Term Asset-Backed
Securities Loan Facility, which has supported billions of
dollars in credit to small businesses, credit card borrowers,
and students, and the Term Auction Facility, which helped banks
get cheaper funding.  Bernanke pushed the boundaries of the Fed’s powers, using
section 13(3) of the Federal Reserve Act, which allowed the
central bank to aid non-banks under “unusual and exigent
circumstances.” In some facilities, the Fed engaged in non-
recourse lending, meaning it loaned against collateral alone and
took a greater risk of loss.  ‘Risk Exposures’  “By moving into the world of non-recourse loans, they
started to accept risk exposures that the private sector was no
longer capable of maintaining,” said  Lou Crandall , chief
economist at Wrightson ICAP LLC in Jersey City, New Jersey.
“That effectively turned the Fed into an asset warehouse.”  Congress excluded one Fed lending program from disclosure,
the  discount window , which is the subject of a 2008 lawsuit
filed by Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News, against the
central bank. A group of banks is appealing to the Supreme Court
over lower-court decisions ordering the Fed to identify loan
recipients. The program peaked at $110.7 billion in October
2008.  “We see this not as the end of a process but really a
significant step forward in opening the veil of secrecy that
exists in one of the most powerful agencies in government,”
Senator  Bernard Sanders , the Vermont Independent who wrote the
provision on Fed disclosure, said to reporters Nov. 17.  Request Rebuffed  Sanders said he was motivated to use legislation to force
the Fed to reveal borrowers after Bernanke rebuffed his request
to identify the firms.  “Given the size of these commitments, it is
incomprehensible that the American people have not received
specific details about them,” Sanders said in a letter to
Bernanke on Feb. 4, 2009.  “The Federal Reserve does not release specific information
regarding the borrowings of individual institutions from our
lending facilities,” Bernanke said in a reply to Sanders. “The
approach is completely consistent with the long-standing
practice of central banks.”  A year after his 2009 correspondence with Sanders, Bernanke
said in House Financial Services Committee testimony the Fed
would agree to reveal the names of borrowers of emergency
facilities with a “sufficiently long” lag. Once again, he said
that the confidentiality of the  discount window  “must be
maintained.”  Today’s information relates to aid from Dec. 1, 2007,
through July 21, 2010, when President  Barack Obama  signed Dodd-
Frank into law. The act also requires the Fed, after a two-year
delay, to identify firms that, following the law’s passage,
borrow through its discount window and participate in its
purchases or sales of assets such as mortgage-backed securities
and Treasuries.  Emergency Powers  The Dodd-Frank legislation has also limited the Fed’s
emergency lending powers from now on to programs with broad-
based eligibility, curtailing bailouts of individual
institutions.  “You have to balance the different considerations,” said
 Roberto Perli , managing director at International Strategy &
Investment Group in Washington and a former Fed Board staff
member. “They crossed a line, but what would have been the
alternative? You can’t have a huge run on money funds. The
situation was very delicate. The alternative would have been a
lot worse.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  