-- Fed Emergency Borrowers Ranged From GE to McDonald’s
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2010-12-02T01:58:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/fed-crisis-borrowers-ranged-from-bank-of-america-to-mcdonald-s.html
The Federal Reserve’s emergency
lending during the financial crisis spanned the global economy,
from the largest U.S. financial firms to community banks, hedge
funds and a fast-food company.  The Fed, in compliance with orders from Congress, today
named recipients of $3.3 trillion in emergency aid. Among them
were U.S. branches of overseas banks, including Switzerland’s
UBS AG; corporations such as General Electric Co. and McDonald’s
Corp.; and investors like Pacific Investment Management Co. and
computer executive  Michael Dell .  Lawmakers demanded disclosure, over the Fed’s initial
objections, as U.S. central bankers pushed beyond their
traditional role of backstopping banks to stem the worst
financial panic since the Great Depression. The Fed posted the
data on its  website  to comply with a provision in July’s Dodd-
Frank law overhauling financial regulation.  “Perhaps most surprising is the huge sum that went to bail
out foreign private banks and corporations,” Senator  Bernard Sanders , the Vermont Independent who wrote the provision on Fed
disclosure, said in a statement today. “As a result of this
disclosure, other members of Congress and I will be taking a
very extensive look at all aspects of how the Federal Reserve
functions.”  Political Scrutiny  The release will heighten political scrutiny of the central
bank already at its most intense in three decades. The Fed’s
Nov. 3 decision to add $600 billion of monetary stimulus has
sparked a backlash from top Republicans in Congress, who said in
a Nov. 17 letter to Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  that the action
risks inflation and asset-price bubbles.  “We owe an accounting to the American people of who we
have lent money to,” Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  said
today in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays
Advantage,” with  Kathleen Hays . “It is a good step toward
broader transparency.”  The information, which also includes the amounts of
transactions and interest rates charged, spans six loan programs
as well as currency swaps with other central banks, purchases of
mortgage-backed securities and the rescues of Bear Stearns Cos.
and  American International Group Inc.   The U.S. subsidiaries of European financial institutions,
led by Zurich-based UBS and Brussels-based Dexia SA, were some
of the largest users of a Fed program providing emergency short-
term funding to companies. The biggest U.S.-based user was
bailed-out insurer American International Group Inc., at $60.2
billion.  Bayerische Landesbank  Another program aimed at banks, the Term Auction Facility,
helped New York units of non-U.S. firms. For example, Munich-
based Bayerische Landesbank borrowed $7 billion in December
2008, while Seoul-based Shinhan Financial Group Co. used $100
million in February 2010.  The data detail the breadth of central bank support that
reached beyond banks to companies such as GE, which accessed a
Fed program 12 times for a total of $16 billion in commercial
paper. The Fed bought short-term IOUs from corporations, risky
assets from Bear Stearns and more than $1 trillion in U.S.
housing debt.  “Consistent with what we said at the time, we participated
in the program to support investors’ need for liquidity during
the financial crisis and to manage the company’s commercial-
paper maturity profile,” said  Russell Wilkerson , a GE
spokesman.  Market Disruptions  Companies’ participation in the programs “reflected the
severe market disruptions during the financial crisis and
generally did not reflect participants’ financial weakness,”
the Fed said today in a statement in Washington. “The Federal
Reserve followed sound risk-management practices in
administering all of these programs” and incurred no credit
losses, the statement said.  At Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Wall Street’s most profitable
securities firm, borrowing from the Primary Dealer Credit
Facility peaked at $24 billion in October 2008. “Without
question, direct government support was critical in stabilizing
the financial system, and we benefitted from it,” Chief
Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  said in January 2010.  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman in New York,
said today that the Fed’s actions “were very successful.”  Bernanke pushed the boundaries of the Fed’s powers, using
section 13(3) of the Federal Reserve Act, which allowed the
central bank to aid non-banks under “unusual and exigent
circumstances.” In some facilities, the Fed engaged in non-
recourse lending, meaning it loaned against collateral alone and
took a greater risk of loss.  Dollar Squeeze  The presence of foreign banks in the program underscores
the squeeze in dollar liquidity after the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. on Sept. 15, 2008. UBS, Switzerland’s
largest bank, was the biggest borrower from the Commercial Paper
Funding Facility, tapping the program 11 times for borrowings
that peaked at $37.2 billion.  The Fed determined that McDonald’s, while not listed as a
borrower under the CPFF, benefited from the program as a
“parent/sponsor” of Golden Funding Corp., which sold a total
of $203.5 million in commercial paper.  The designation is incorrect, McDonald’s spokeswoman  Heidi Barker Sa Shekhem  said in a statement. “McDonald’s Corp. was
erroneously listed by the Federal Reserve Bank as a recipient of
federal funds during the financial crisis of 2008,” she said.  Emergency Programs  The emergency programs included the Term Asset-Backed
Securities Loan Facility, which has supported billions of
dollars in credit to small businesses, credit card borrowers,
and students, and the Term Auction Facility, which helped banks
get cheaper funding.  Pimco, the world’s largest bond fund, tapped the TALF 96
times between April 2009 and March 2010 for a total of $7.25
billion, making the Newport Beach, California-based firm one of
the largest borrowers under the program, which was different
from most of the others in that the Fed had to entice firms to
participate. Dell’s MSD Capital LP was among investors that
included hedge funds and pension plans, according to the data.  In the TAF, Bank of America had loans for $45 billion
outstanding from the facility as of Jan. 15, 2009, while Wells
Fargo had loans for $45 billion on Feb. 26, putting them at the
top of the borrowers’ list.  Congress excluded one Fed lending program from disclosure,
the  discount window , which is the subject of a 2008 lawsuit
filed by Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News, against the
central bank. A group of banks is appealing to the Supreme Court
over lower-court decisions ordering the Fed to identify loan
recipients. The program peaked at $110.7 billion in October
2008.  Force the Fed  Sanders said he was motivated to use legislation to force
the Fed to reveal borrowers after Bernanke rebuffed his request
to identify the firms.  “Given the size of these commitments, it is
incomprehensible that the American people have not received
specific details about them,” Sanders said in a letter to
Bernanke on Feb. 4, 2009.  “The Federal Reserve does not release specific information
regarding the borrowings of individual institutions from our
lending facilities,” Bernanke said in a reply to Sanders. “The
approach is completely consistent with the long-standing
practice of central banks.”  Reveal Names  A year after his 2009 correspondence with Sanders, Bernanke
said in House Financial Services Committee testimony the Fed
would agree to reveal the names of borrowers of emergency
facilities with a “sufficiently long” lag. Once again, he said
that the confidentiality of the  discount window  “must be
maintained.”  Today’s information relates to aid from Dec. 1, 2007,
through July 21, 2010, when President  Barack Obama  signed Dodd-
Frank into law. The act also requires the Fed, after a two-year
delay, to identify firms that, following the law’s passage,
borrow through its discount window and participate in its
purchases or sales of assets such as mortgage-backed securities
and Treasuries.  The Dodd-Frank legislation has also limited the Fed’s
emergency lending powers from now on to programs with broad-
based eligibility, curtailing bailouts of individual
institutions.  “You have to balance the different considerations,” said
 Roberto Perli , managing director at International Strategy &
Investment Group in Washington and a former Fed Board staff
member. “They crossed a line, but what would have been the
alternative? You can’t have a huge run on money funds. The
situation was very delicate. The alternative would have been a
lot worse.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  