-- Fed to Name Recipients of $3.3 Trillion in Aid During Crisis
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2010-12-01T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/fed-will-name-recipients-of-3-3-trillion-in-emergency-aid-during-crisis.html
The Federal Reserve, under orders
from Congress, plans today to identify recipients of $3.3
trillion in emergency aid the central bank provided as it fought
the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  The Fed intends to post the data on its website at midday
in Washington to comply with a provision in July’s Dodd-Frank
law overhauling financial regulation. The information spans six
loan programs as well as currency swaps with other central
banks, purchases of mortgage-backed securities and the rescues
of Bear Stearns Cos. and  American International Group Inc.   The disclosures may heighten political scrutiny of the
central bank already at its most intense in three decades. The
Fed’s Nov. 3 decision to add $600 billion of monetary stimulus
has met with backlash from top Republicans in Congress, who said
in a Nov. 17 letter to Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  that the action
risks inflation and asset-price bubbles.  “It is quite conceivable it is going to stir up the
political pot,” said  Ward McCarthy , chief financial economist
at Jefferies & Co. Inc. in New York. “But political criticism
isn’t going to prevent them from doing what they need to do. An
important part of being a Fed official is to understand whatever
you do is going to come under scrutiny.”  The data will probably show the magnitude of central bank
support to companies including Bank of America Corp. and  General
Electric Co.  after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
spurred a surge in private borrowing costs. Lawmakers demanded
disclosure after the Fed approved aid dwarfing the federal
government’s $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program.  Discount Window  Congress excluded one Fed program from disclosure, the
discount window, which is the subject of a 2008 lawsuit filed by
Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News, against the central
bank. A group of banks is appealing to the Supreme Court over
lower-court decisions ordering the Fed to identify loan
recipients. The program peaked at $110.7 billion in October
2008.  “We see this not as the end of a process but really a
significant step forward in opening the veil of secrecy that
exists in one of the most powerful agencies in government,”
Senator  Bernard Sanders , the Vermont Independent who wrote the
provision on Fed disclosure, said to reporters Nov. 17.  U.S. central bankers stepped outside of their traditional
role as a lender of last resort to banks as credit markets
nearly ground to a halt in the wake of Lehman’s bankruptcy on
Sept. 15, 2008. Bernanke pushed the boundaries of the Fed’s
powers, using section 13(3) of the Federal Reserve Act, which
allowed the central bank to aid non-banks under “unusual and
exigent circumstances.”  Commercial Paper  Over time, the Fed would provide financing for such diverse
borrowers as U.S. corporations who needed to sell commercial
paper and to money managers who wanted to invest in consumer
auto loans.  Today’s information relates to aid from Dec. 1, 2007,
through July 21, 2010, when President  Barack Obama  signed Dodd-
Frank into law. The act requires the Fed, after a two-year
delay, to identify firms that, following the law’s passage,
borrow through its discount window and participate in its
purchases or sales of assets such as mortgage-backed securities
and Treasuries.  The Dodd-Frank legislation has also limited the Fed’s
emergency lending powers from now on to programs with broad-
based eligibility, curtailing bailouts of individual
institutions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Craig Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 