-- Yellen Sees Need to Address `Unsustainable' Budget to Protect Economy
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 2010-12-01T16:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/fed-s-yellen-says-u-s-must-address-unsustainable-budget-path.html
Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said the U.S. must address its budget deficit to protect
the nation’s economy from risks including a slowdown in growth.  “Charting a sensible course for the federal budget is an
essential but formidable task for U.S. policy makers,” Yellen,
64, said in a speech in New York today. “If current policy
settings are maintained, the budget will be on an unsustainable
path,” and “a failure to address these challenges would expose
the United States to serious economic costs and risks.”  While the Fed’s program to purchase $600 billion of
Treasuries through June will help stimulate growth, it is
“hardly a panacea” and would benefit from fiscal support,
Yellen said.  The Fed faces some of its bitterest political criticism in
three decades following its Nov. 3 decision to purchase the
securities. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and other Fed officials
have defended the decision to buy about $75 billion in
securities a month through June to combat too-low inflation and
a jobless rate that’s stuck near 10 percent.  Yellen said she “strongly supported” the Fed’s bond
purchase program, known as quantitative easing, because it will
be “helpful in strengthening the recovery.” The unemployment
rate is “likely to remain high for some time” and underlying
inflation is below the Fed’s mandate, she said.  Reason to Act  Disinflation is “highly undesirable and it’s part of our
motivation to act,” Yellen said in response to audience
questions. While the risk of outright deflation is not “very
great at all” and a “tail risk,” disinflation is “a
problem,” she said.  The consumer-price index increased by 1.2 percent in the 12
months ended in October. Most members of the Federal Open Market
Committee consider an inflation rate of 2 percent consistent
with their goal of price stability, Yellen said.  “A fiscal program that combines a focus on pro-growth
policies in the near term with concrete steps to reduce longer-
term budget deficits could be a valuable complement to our
efforts,” Yellen said.  The Congressional Budget Office estimated in August that
the deficit this fiscal year will exceed $1 trillion for a third
time. The budget shortfall will amount to 7 percent of the
nation’s gross domestic product, the nonpartisan agency’s semi-
annual budget report projected.  Tightening fiscal policy “prematurely” would damage an
economy that “continues to be impaired by the lingering effects
of the financial crisis,” Yellen said.  ‘Credible Plan’  “We need, and I believe there is scope for, an approach to
fiscal policy that puts in place a well-timed and credible plan
to bring deficits down to sustainable levels over the medium and
long terms while also addressing the economy’s short-term
needs,” Yellen said.  The Fed’s bond purchase program has been criticized by
officials in countries including China and Germany. A letter
from 23 people, including former Republican officials and
economists, urged the Fed to end the program early, asserting
that it will cause prices to surge.  Yellen said she is “confident” that the central bank has
“both the commitment and the tools” to remove stimulus from
the economy when necessary to “maintain price stability and
keep inflation expectations well anchored.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  