-- Fed's Lacker Says Inflation `Hysteria' Over Monetary Stimulus Is Overblown
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 2010-12-01T02:18:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/fed-s-lacker-says-concern-u-s-stimulus-will-spark-inflation-is-overblown.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said concern that U.S. monetary
stimulus will lead to a surge in inflation is overblown.  “There’s a little bit of hysteria out there” among
critics of Fed policy, Lacker said today in remarks during a
panel discussion in New York. While there are “upside risks”
during the “recovery phase,” the Federal Open Market Committee
is “definitely cognizant of that risk.”  Lacker said he expects to see inflation “gradually
firming” to a range of 1.5 percent to 2 percent.  The Fed faces some of its bitterest political criticism in
three decades following its Nov. 3 decision to purchase $600
billion in Treasury securities. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and
other Fed officials have defended the decision to buy about $75
billion in securities a month through June to combat too-low
inflation and a jobless rate that’s stuck near 10 percent.  Directors at Fed district banks saw “considerable slack”
in the U.S. economy in the weeks before the central bank’s Nov.
3 decision, the Board of Governors in Washington said today. The
bond purchase program, known as quantitative easing, has been
criticized by officials in countries including China and
Germany.  Representative  John Boehner , nominated to be speaker of the
U.S. House, and three other Republicans sent Bernanke a letter
Nov. 17 expressing “deep concerns” about a policy they said
risked weakening the dollar and fueling asset bubbles. A letter
from 23 people, including former Republican officials and
economists, urged the Fed to end the program early, asserting
that it will cause prices to surge.  ‘Uncharted Territory’  “We’re in uncharted territory on policy,” said Lacker,
who has led the Richmond Fed since 2004. “The recovery phase is
the most delicate part of monetary policy,” requiring the right
timing for the “withdrawal of monetary stimulus,” Lacker said.  “We’ve missed sometimes in the past” and other times
“we’ve done pretty well,” he said. Fed presidents rotate
voting on monetary policy with Lacker next voting in 2012.  Lacker said Nov. 14 that the central bank may need to
tighten monetary policy even with the U.S. unemployment rate
elevated to avoid sparking inflation similar to the 1970s.
Today’s monetary policy might benefit from a review of the 1960s
and 1970s, when a focus on unemployment led to an acceleration
in inflation, Lacker said.  Lacker said in October that another round of asset
purchases “would be a hard case to make” with economic growth
in line with his outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  