-- Fed Says U.S. Economy Gains Strength in Most Regions
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2010-12-01T19:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/fed-says-economy-gained-strength-in-10-of-12-regions-as-hiring-improved.html
The Federal Reserve said the economy
gained strength across much of the U.S. as hiring improved,
manufacturing expanded and retailers anticipated a stronger
holiday shopping season.  Five Fed banks, including Boston and San Francisco, said
the economy grew “at a slight to modest” rate, while five
others, including New York and Chicago, reported a “somewhat
stronger pace of economic activity.” Conditions were reported
as “mixed” in the Philadelphia and St. Louis regions.  The report, based on anecdotal information, signals an
improvement in the economy after sluggish growth in the summer
prompted the Fed last month to announce $600 billion in asset
purchases to help cut  unemployment  persisting near 10 percent.  The positive outlook from 10 banks contrasts with the
October report in which eight Fed banks, including San Francisco
and Chicago, reported growth. At the time, the Philadelphia and
Richmond Fed banks said their economies were “mixed” while the
Cleveland region “held steady” and the Atlanta district
“remained slow.”  The Beige Book report released today reflects information
collected on or before Nov. 19 and summarized by the Cleveland
Fed. The survey will be considered by Federal Open Market
Committee policy makers before their next meeting on Dec. 14,
when they will review their asset purchase program.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 2.1 percent to
1,204.93 at 2:10 p.m. in New York trading. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year note increased 15 basis points to 2.948
percent.  Political Backlash  The Fed’s Nov. 3 decision to undertake new bond purchases
sparked a political backlash. Last month, two Republicans,
Tennessee Senator  Bob Corker  and Indiana Representative  Mike Pence , proposed removing the Fed’s full employment mandate to
focus the central bank on stable prices alone. Corker plans to
introduce legislation next year.  At its November meeting, the Fed said “the pace of
recovery in output and employment continues to be slow” and
that household spending remains constrained by “high
unemployment, modest income growth, lower housing wealth, and
tight credit.”  “Hiring activity showed some improvement across most
Districts,” the report said today, adding that “employers are
waiting for clearer signals of expanding business prospects
before adding significantly to payrolls.”  The Labor Department will report Dec. 3 that the economy
added 145,000 jobs in November, according to the median forecast
of a Bloomberg survey of 80 economists. The unemployment rate
will remain unchanged at 9.6 percent, they estimate.  Improved Spending  Eight Fed districts reported improving retail spending.
Boston, Cleveland, St. Louis and Richmond said results were
mixed. “Expectations for the holiday shopping season were
generally positive,” the report said.  Consumer confidence rose in November to the highest level
in five months, the New York-based Conference Board said this
week.  The average shopper in the U.S. spent 6.4 percent more over
Thanksgiving weekend than last year as more people picked up
jewelry and toys at the start of the holiday season. About 212
million shoppers went to stores and websites over the weekend,
on average spending $365.34, according to the National Retail
Federation.  “Housing markets remain depressed, with several Districts
reporting further weakening during the past six weeks,” the Fed
said.  Purchases Dropped  Last month the National Association of Realtors said home
purchases dropped 2.2 percent to a worse-than-expected annual
rate of 4.43 million. Sales of new homes remain depressed as
well, the Commerce Department said last month. New home sales in
October of 283,000 at an annual rate were only slightly higher
than the all-time low of 275,000 in August.  Wage pressures were “contained” and prices “were fairly
stable across Districts despite rising input costs, especially
for agricultural commodities, metal, and fuel,” the Fed said.  The Fed’s preferred gauge of inflation, the personal
consumption expenditures index, excluding food and energy, rose
0.9 percent in October from a year earlier, the lowest rate of
inflation in data going back to 1960. Including food and energy,
prices rose 1.3 percent, below the goal of “2 percent or a bit
below” that Bernanke expressed in an October speech in Boston.  Favorable weather helped boost farm incomes and the energy
sector expanded, the Fed said, noting an increase activity in
drilling rigs in the Atlanta, Kansas City and Dallas districts.  Rising Prices  Rising crop prices have supported the economy in much of
rural America, as harvest profits allow farmers to invest in new
equipment. The  spot price of corn  has risen 50 percent since
July 1, according to the USDA. The S&P GSCI Agriculture Index
 added 43 percent , compared with the 19 percent advance in the
broader  S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodities .  Farmland values also are rising. Land prices in some areas
of the Kansas City Fed’s district increased as much as 12
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, the biggest
jump since the fourth quarter of 2008, the Fed bank said Nov.
12. The Chicago Fed reported Nov. 18 that land prices rose 10
percent from a year earlier.  The strength in crops has been good news for companies like
Deere & Co., the world’s largest farm-equipment maker, which
reported on Nov. 24 that third quarter sales gained 35 percent
to $7.2 billion from $5.33 billion a year earlier, largely due
to gains in agricultural machinery sold to U.S. farmers.  “Manufacturing activity continued to expand,” in most
districts, the report said. New York was the only district where
activity weakened, and Dallas said conditions were mixed.  Factory production rose 0.5 percent, after manufacturers
churned out more automobiles, computers and appliances in
October. The gain followed a 0.1 percent increase in September
that was previously reported as a drop, according to a report
last month from the Federal Reserve, as manufacturing remains a
strength for the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  