-- Fiat Turns to Natural Gas for U.S. as Toyota, GM Go Electric
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2010-12-02T16:55:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/fiat-s-marchionne-bets-on-natural-gas-for-u-s-as-gm-toyota-go-electric.html
 As  Sergio Marchionne  brings back
 Fiat SpA  to the U.S. after nearly three decades, he may add
another Italian speciality: the natural gas engine.  Marchionne, who is chief executive officer of Fiat and
Chrysler Group LLC, says natural gas engines offer a better way
to cut emissions because they’re cheaper than competing
technologies. He also argues electric cars, which General Motors
Co. and Toyota Motor Corp. are betting on, present “too many
obstacles” such as the recharge time for batteries.  “Natural gas is very suitable for the U.S.,” Constantinos
Vafidis, who oversees transmission and hybrid development at
Fiat’s research center in Turin, Italy, said in an interview.
“Especially for public services and goods transportation, where
vehicles are refueled from a central base.”   Fiat  is the market leader in Europe in natural-gas engines,
with an 80 percent share of methane-powered cars and 55 percent
of light commercial vehicles. Bolstering Marchionne’s view, the
U.S. has the natural-gas supply for the engines after becoming
the world’s largest producer last year.  “Fiat will use its technological leadership in natural
gas, in a region discovered to have huge reserves,” said
Giuliano Noci, a professor at the MIP management school of
Milan’s Polytechnic university. “It’s almost a mandatory
strategy. Fiat should lead the natural-gas car market as it’s
far behind in the electric vehicle sector.”  Shares Advance  Fiat rose 14 cents, or 1.1 percent, to 13.48 euros in Milan
trading today. The  stock  has gained 32 percent this year,
valuing the Turin-based company at 16.2 billion euros ($21.4
billion).  Natural gas  is a “more affordable solution ” as it’s less
expensive to produce, transport and distribute compared with
other fuel sources,  Alfredo Altavilla , who heads Fiat’s Iveco
truck unit, said in September. The additional cost for an engine
using natural gas is $3,000, compared with $3,300 for diesel and
$8,000 for an electric hybrid, he said.  Fiat sold 127,000 methane-powered cars in Europe last year,
including versions of the Panda compact and Ducato van, helped
by government incentives. The U.S. last year overtook Russia as
the world’s largest producer of natural gas, as output of gas
trapped in shale rock rose to 10 percent of total U.S. supplies
from 2 percent in 1990.  “We’ve had contact with the U.S. and Canadian
governments,” said Lucio Bernard, director of Fiat Powertrain.
The two countries have become more interested “after the recent
discoveries of shale-gas reserves in the region.”  Sales Goal  While Italy’s natural-gas vehicle market is one of the most
robust in the world, with more than 800 fueling stations across
the country, the market is still in its infancy in the U.S. GM
just began selling vehicles with natural-gas engines in the
country this year for fleet buyers.  Honda Motor Co.  is currently
the only automaker selling cars with compressed natural gas
engines to retail customers in the U.S.  Fiat and Chrysler, which is joining the  natural-gas
vehicles association  in Washington, are currently studying
whether to sell natural-gas vehicles in the U.S., the two
carmakers said. Fiat will re-enter the U.S. next year, and
targets sales of 50,000 of the 500 compact in the market.  “We’re always looking at alternative propulsion systems
and how to reduce our dependency on foreign oil, so this is one
thing we are looking at,” Chrysler spokesman  Vince Muniga  said.  GM and Toyota are focusing on hybrid electric vehicles as
their alternative to conventional gasoline engines. Detroit-
based GM started production of the $41,000 gasoline-electric
Chevrolet Volt Nov. 30 and forecasts sales of 10,000 of the cars
next year and 45,000 in 2012.  Refueling Stations  Toyota  is the maker of the world’s first mass-produced
hybrid car, the Prius, which went on sale more than a decade
ago. Chrysler is also developing an electric version of the  Fiat 
500 to begin selling in the U.S. in 2012 for city driving.  While recharging stations for electric-car batteries
present an infrastructure challenge, locations for refueling
natural gas vehicles are also limited. There are 1,300 stations
in the U.S. for the 110,000 vehicles using natural gas, the
International Association for Natural Gas Vehicles said. That
compares with 160,000 gasoline stations, the Petroleum Marketers
Association of America said.  The lack of methane fueling stations in the U.S. has
limited these vehicles primarily to government and corporate
fleets that can return to a central location to refill.  “That is where the industry is primarily putting its
emphasis right now,” said Richard Kolodziej, president of
Natural Gas Vehicles for America. Natural gas is about $1 less
on average than a gallon of gasoline, he said.  Targeting Trucks  Marchionne, who plans to raise his Chrysler stake to 35
percent by the end of 2011 from 20 percent, last year separated
the Ram and Dodge brands to create a standalone truck unit. His
five-year plan for Chrysler includes bringing large- and small-
commercial vans to the U.S. in 2012 under the Ram brand based on
Fiat’s trucks platforms.  “That gives them the freedom to introduce Iveco products
into the Chrysler lineup,” said  Phil Gott , an IHS Automotive
analyst in Lexington, Massachusetts. “The target customer would
be the heavy duty fleets, they could cut their fuel costs in
about half,” he said of natural gas engines.  The U.S. currently ranks 14th in the world in sales of
natural gas vehicles, while Italy is sixth, according to the
International Association for Natural Gas Vehicles. Pakistan
ranks No. 1 with 2.3 million vehicles and 3,068 fueling
stations. Marchionne hopes to boost the U.S. figure.  “Fiat’s technological leadership in compressed natural gas
in Europe is a key asset for the U.S. natural gas-vehicle
market,” the CEO said this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tommaso Ebhardt  in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Higgins  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 