-- Fannie, Freddie Defend Foreclosures Amid Criticism
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2010-12-01T21:14:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/foreclosures-should-not-pause-during-loan-workouts-freddie-mac-aide-says.html
Federal regulators and lawmakers
pressed mortgage guarantors  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  to
suspend foreclosure proceedings while distressed borrowers seek
new mortgages.  Acting Comptroller of the Currency  John Walsh  testified at
a Senate Banking Committee hearing today that his agency is
directing national servicers to suspend foreclosures for
borrowers who are actively seeking to qualify for loan
modifications.  Dual-track processing is “unnecessarily confusing for
distressed homeowners,” Walsh told the committee, which held
its second hearing since allegations of shoddy or fraudulent
foreclosure practices arose in September.  Government-controlled Fannie and Freddie, taking
congressional questions on the dispute for the first time,
insisted that borrowers and lenders both benefit from the dual
track process of pursuing foreclosure and loan modification at
the same time.  Freddie Mac  Executive Vice President  Donald Bisenius  said
that the dual-track process minimizes losses, protects
communities from blight and ultimately helps borrowers.  ‘Drag On’  “It is not in the borrower’s interest for the process to
drag on indefinitely,” Bisenius said. “The longer the
borrower’s delinquency goes uncured, the farther behind he or
she gets, and the harder it becomes to bring the loan current.”  A foreclosure can cost $30 to $40 a day, or as much as
$15,000 a year, Bisenius said.  Congress is examining the foreclosure process after  Ally
Financial Inc. ’s GMAC Mortgage unit,  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and
 Bank of America Corp . temporarily halted home seizures in
September amid claims that legal documents were mishandled.  State attorneys general and federal regulators are
investigating mortgage companies for their reliance on “robo-
signers,” employees who signed off on thousands of foreclosure
affidavits without reviewing the underlying facts.  At the hearing, lawmakers questioned bank regulators about
what actions they have taken to ensure that home seizures are
fair and legal. They also criticized dual-track processing as
confusing and sometimes unfair.  ‘Stonewalled’  “Countless constituents have told us stories of being
stonewalled by banks for very long periods of time, of not being
told the reasons for their rejection of their modification
request, of significant delays caused by banks losing their
paperwork, and trial modifications canceled with no rationale,”
said Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat. “That just
can’t continue to happen.”  Federal Reserve Board Governor  Daniel K. Tarullo  called the
system “literally a race between foreclosure and modification”
and called for national standards on loan servicers.  The Fed’s preliminary review of the problem suggests
“significant weaknesses” in loan servicing and foreclosures,
Tarullo said.  “The problems are sufficiently widespread that they
suggest structural problems in the mortgage servicing
industry,” he said. “It has now become evident that
significant parts of the servicing industry also failed to
handle foreclosures properly.”  ‘Quite Significant’  The Fed also has told the largest banks to estimate their
liability for failed mortgages as part of a capital review,
Tarullo said. Investor demands that banks buy back improperly
issued mortgages “could be quite significant,” he told the
committee.  Attorneys general, consumer advocates and congressional
lawmakers have said that problems in the housing system are
complicated by the fact that delinquent homeowners seeking to
renegotiate their loans through government- or bank-sponsored
programs such as the  Home Affordable Modification Program  are
often surprised and confused to discover that their foreclosures
haven’t been suspended.  Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae and other purchasers of home loans,
including the Association of Mortgage Investors, said the dual-
track system balances the interests of everyone involved.  “While we believe that borrowers who already are under
significant stress arising from their financial situations
should not be subjected to needless confusion, we also believe
that unnecessary delays in an already lengthy foreclosure
process would be counterproductive,” Bisenius said.  His comments were echoed by  Terry Edwards , executive vice
president at Fannie Mae. The two mortgage companies are
controlled by the U.S. government and have been surviving on
taxpayer aid since 2008.  Further in Arrears  “The longer the process takes, and the further in arrears
the borrower becomes, the less likely it is that the borrower
will succeed with a modification and the greater potential there
is for loss to Fannie Mae and the U.S. taxpayer,” Edwards said.  The average foreclosure takes 449 days, Bisenius said,
which provides sufficient time to explore alternatives. The
company and its servicers suspend foreclosures when a loan
workout, short sale or other option becomes viable, he said.  Freddie Mac of McLean, Virginia, and its Washington-based
rival  Fannie Mae  purchased or guaranteed 70 percent of new
mortgages in the third quarter.  The U.S. Treasury Department took control of the two
companies in 2008 after losses on subprime loans pushed them to
the brink of collapse. Since then they have drawn more than $150
billion in aid to remain solvent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;
 Meera Louis  in Washington at 
 Mlouis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 