-- Ex-JPMorgan Banker Pleads Guilty to Rigging Bids on Municipal Bond Deals
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2010-12-01T14:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/former-jpmorgan-banker-admits-rigging-bids-on-municipal-bond-investments.html
A former  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  banker
pleaded guilty to rigging bids for municipal-bond investment
contracts, becoming the eighth person to admit joining the
biggest conspiracy in the $2.8 trillion market’s history.  James L. Hertz , whom the Justice Department said worked for
a Manhattan-based financial institution that it didn’t name,
acknowledged bid-rigging and fraud conspiracies yesterday,
according to a department news release. He agreed to cooperate
with prosecutors. Hertz, 53, of Cranford, New Jersey, worked at
New York-based JPMorgan from 1994 through 2008, according to
records filed with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  “Hertz and co-conspirators designated in advance which co-
conspirator provider, either his employer or another financial
institution, would be the winning bidder for certain investment
agreements or other municipal finance contracts,” the Justice
Department said.  Former bankers at  Bank of America Corp.  and  UBS AG  have
pleaded guilty to cheating taxpayers by conspiring with brokers
to pay states and local governments below-market rates on
investments purchased with bond proceeds. One branch of the
conspiracy stretched from California to Pennsylvania and
included more than 200 deals involving about 160 state agencies,
local governments and nonprofits.  Cities Swindled  Municipalities may have lost more than $1 billion because
of bid-rigging, said Steven Feinstein, a finance professor at
Babson College in Wellesley, Massachusetts.  In January 2007, Bank of America reached an amnesty
agreement with the Justice Department’s Antitrust Division. It
reported its own illegal activity and agreed to assist
prosecutors. It has given investigators documents, e-mails and
recordings of phone calls, court records show.  Three former executives of Los Angeles-based investment
broker CDR Financial Products and another three employees of a
General Electric Co. unit were indicted and have pleaded not
guilty, according to court records. U.S. prosecutors named
former bankers at  Citigroup Inc.,   Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 
 Wachovia Corp . and eight other banks as unindicted co-
conspirators.  In September 2008, JPMorgan said it would stop selling
derivatives -- financial instruments whose value is tied to
another security -- to municipal borrowers. The bank has
disclosed in company filings that it’s facing a civil suit by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission related to
municipal-bond investment contracts and derivatives.  Parking Cash  A JPMorgan spokeswoman,  Jennifer Zuccarelli , said the bank
is co-operating with the Justice Department and it fired Hertz
in 2007, after he failed to assist the company with its own
probe into the dealings of the municipal derivatives unit.  The criminal investigation centers on investments that
municipalities buy with money raised through bond sales. The so-
called guaranteed investment contracts let them earn a return
until the cash is needed for schools, roads or other public
works. The U.S. Treasury Department encourages competitive
bidding to ensure that localities get market rates.  Prosecutors have said that favored bankers got inside
information from brokers who handled the bidding so they could
carve up the market. In some cases, bankers admitted paying
kickbacks to brokers.  He is one of five former JPMorgan bankers who received
letters informing them that they’re targets of the Justice
Department probe, according to employment records filed with
regulators.  Broker E  Hertz received tips from a Minnesota-based person
identified only as Broker E who worked for local governments,
according to the charges. The information about competitors’
bids allowed Hertz to alter his offers to win contracts,
prosecutors wrote.  He conspired with another bank, identified as Financial
Institution A, to fix prices and submit intentionally losing
bids to give the appearance of a legitimate auction and comply
with U.S. Treasury regulations, according to court documents
released today.  In 2001, Hertz competed for a derivative contract with an
unnamed state university that would go to the firm allowing the
school to pay the lowest interest rate, according to the
charges. Hertz initially told Broker E he would accept 4.029
percentage points.  The co-owner of the broker handling the bid signaled that
Hertz could raise his offer to 4.039, which Hertz did, the court
papers said. He got the deal.  In another transaction based on the lowest price a town
could pay for a portfolio of securities, the broker, after
collecting other bids, advised Hertz to raise his bid by $5,000.
He did so and won the contract, according to the charges.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 