-- France Wants Tighter Regulations for Solar Energy, Industry Minister Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-12-01T16:31:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/france-wants-tighter-regulations-for-solar-energy-industry-minister-says.html
France’s solar industry needs to be
more tightly regulated, Industry Minister  Eric Besson  said ahead
of a meeting that may decide policy on the expanding sector.  Targets for increasing output need to be balanced against
the “uncontrolled rise in electricity bills,” Besson said
today at a press conference in Paris. He confirmed a solar
policy meeting will take place tomorrow with Prime Minister
 Francois Fillon .  France’s solar industry has come under scrutiny in recent
months as capacity expanded while subsidized tariffs remained
relatively high. The government cut the so-called feed-in tariff
for solar power twice this year to counter what it called a
speculative bubble. A policy overhaul may include an annual
capacity growth cap of 500 megawatts, the government has said.  “The industry is under pressure,” Jean-Philippe Roudil,
head of the Syndicat des Energies Renouvelables, an industry
group, said by telephone. Reports of further rate cuts for solar
power are “rumors” and the government tomorrow will likely
announce more consultations with industry, he said.  The cost of solar power for state-controlled utilities is
projected to rise to 915 million euros next year from 128
million euros in 2010, according to figures published yesterday
by the country’s energy regulator. A tax that is supposed to
compensate mostly  EDF  for the higher costs of renewable energy
has been insufficient since 2009, resulting in a shortfall for
EDF of 1.4 billion euros last year and an estimate of more than
1 billion euros this year, the regulator said.  Cost to Consumers  Feed-in tariffs require utilities to buy electricity from
renewable sources at more than the standard rate. EDF, France’s
former power monopoly, pays more for solar power than for the
nuclear power it produces at 58 reactors and what it can buy on
European spot electricity markets. The added cost is passed on
to consumers through the tax.  The government is preparing to cut the price EDF pays for
solar energy about 10 percent and cap the annual volume of
installations, Les Echos reported yesterday, citing people it
didn’t identify. Besson today declined to comment on the report.  The regulator estimates that EDF will pay an average of 546
euros a megawatt-hour for solar power in 2011. This compares
with estimated spot market power prices of 55 euros.  France will have 860 megawatts of photovoltaic capacity
installed and connected to the grid at the end of 2010 and a
total of 2,150 megawatts by the end of next year, according to
the regulator.  “We think projects in the pipeline amount to less,”
Roudil said. His group is recommending modifying solar power
rates according to installed capacity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  