-- FTC Backs `Do-Not-Track' Option for Web Browsing to Protect User Privacy
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2010-12-01T19:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/ftc-backs-do-not-track-option-for-web-browsing-to-protect-user-privacy.html
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission
called for a do-not-track option for online browsing and pressed
advertisers to make their data practices clearer for consumers,
in staff recommendations on privacy.  The report released today, which the agency has been
preparing for the past year, is aimed at providing a framework
for improving privacy as consumers shop and communicate using
the Internet. Data are sometimes collected online “in an
irresponsible or even reckless manner,” according to the
report.  “Technological and business ingenuity has spawned a whole
new world,” FTC Chairman  Jonathan Leibowitz  said on a
conference call with reporters. “The FTC wants to ensure that
this thriving marketplace is built on sound privacy practices
and consumer choice.”  The do-not-track proposal is aimed at online advertisers’
practice of recording consumers’ movements on the Internet,
compiling a profile of their preferences in order to target them
for marketing. The most practical way to give consumers options
is through a setting on the computer browser signaling their
choices for collecting and using data, according to the report.  Companies may be unwilling to embrace such a proposal given
the potential to sell products to people based on their
interests, said  Lisa Sotto , a privacy lawyer with Hunton &
Williams in New York who advises companies on advertising, data
and security matters.  “Issue-based advertising really is the holy grail for
marketers,” said Sotto. “The ability to speak directly to an
audience that is most receptive to your message is very
exciting. The idea that people may be able to turn off in droves
is a difficult pill to swallow.”  Online Ad Revenue  Online advertising revenue swelled to $12.1 billion in the
first half of 2010, up 11 percent from the same period a year
earlier, according to the  Interactive Advertising Bureau  and
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  A coalition of online marketers and advertisers opposes a
federally managed system or a law that would dictate a do-not-
track framework and recently introduced a self-regulatory
initiative they say is a step in the right direction.  “Industry needs to redouble its efforts in self
regulation,” said Mike Zaneis, senior vice president and
general counsel of the Interactive Advertising Bureau, which
represents more than 460 sellers of online advertisers and is
part of the self-regulatory initiative led by the American
Association of Advertising Agencies and the American Advertising
Federation for a total of 5,000 marketers.  Industry-Led Effort  Zaneis said 58 companies started complying with an opt-out
icon introduced last week letting consumers say they don’t want
to be tracked and 30 more companies are ready to add the symbol
on their websites. “We don’t think a do-not-track law is
necessary,” Zaneis said.  Proposals letting online users tell Internet sites not to
collect and analyze information about them based on their online
history are backed by consumer groups. The idea is based on the
do-not-call register the FTC set up in 2003 that lets consumers
block telemarketing calls at home.  “Some consumers are troubled by the collection and sharing
of their information,” the staff said in the report. “Others
have no idea that any of this information collection and sharing
is taking place.” Some “may view it as worthwhile,” according
to the report.  The FTC report also calls for industry to provide
prominent, simple and clear privacy notices and allow consumers
to review the data they have collected about them.  ‘Step Up’  “Industry must step up to the plate,” Leibowitz said.
“The value of industry doing something itself is that they can
move more quickly than legislation.” The FTC doesn’t currently
have a position on the do-not-track measure, he said.  The do-not-track plan is a partial solution, said  Susan Grant , director of consumer protection at the Consumer
 Federation of America , which represents more than 300 national,
state and local consumer groups.  “It doesn’t resolve all the issues raised by behavioral
advertising, but it would give people more control over the
collection and use of their information until we can hash out
the rest of the complex issues that would be involved in getting
some baseline privacy regulation,” Grant said.  Chris Soghoian, a privacy and security researcher, said
opt-out proposals can be tricky with strong solutions likely to
be opposed by industry.  Advertiser Acceptance  “There’s a difference between ‘do not track’ and ‘do not
use,’” Soghoian said today at a privacy conference organized by
Consumer Watchdog in Washington. “Even if you opt-out, the
advertisers still track you around the Web. I don’t think the ad
networks are going to accept any kind of strong opt-out
mechanism without having their arms twisted.”  David Vladeck , director of the FTC Bureau of Consumer
Protection, said today that the agency doesn’t have authority to
manage and enforce do-not-track, which would require an act of
Congress.  “There are ways we can coax, cajole and charm industry,
but I don’t believe the FTC has the existing authority to
mandate a do-not-track system,’” Vladeck said, speaking at the
privacy conference in Washington today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  