-- Gazprom, CNPC Circle Kazakhstan's Oil Fields `Like Vultures,' Leak Shows
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2010-12-01T08:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/gazprom-cnpc-circle-kazakh-fields-like-vultures-leak-shows.html
China National Petroleum Corp. and
OAO Gazprom were ready to scoop up Kazakh oil assets in January
if ventures led by Eni SpA and BG Group Plc collapsed, a U.S.
 diplomatic cable  posted on WikiLeaks.org shows.  U.S. Ambassador  Richard E. Hoagland  sent the cable on Jan.
25 after a private dinner with Maksat Idenov, then the first
vice president of state-owned oil and gas producer KazMunaiGaz
National Co., at the Radisson Hotel in Astana, Kazakhstan’s
capital, according to the leaked document.  “Idenov alleged that Gazprom and China National Petroleum
Company ‘continue to circle like vultures,’ hoping that the
Kashagan and Karachaganak consortia will implode, and then they
can pick up the pieces,” Hoagland said in the cable. “‘Won’t
happen on my watch!’ Idenov vowed.”  KazMunaiGaz increased its interest in Kashagan, the world’s
fifth-largest oil field, to 16.8 percent in 2008, equal to the
stakes held by Eni, Exxon Mobil Corp., Royal Dutch Shell Plc and
Total SA, after cost overruns and delays in the start of
production. The government is investigating allegations of tax
avoidance and illegal oil pumping at Karachaganak, Kazakhstan’s
only major oil project without state participation.  Rome-based Eni, Italy’s largest oil and gas company, is the
lead partner in developing the Kashagan field. Eni and Reading,
England-based BG jointly oversee the Karachaganak project.  Eni asked for questions to be submitted to Rome-based
spokesman  Filippo Cotalini , who didn’t respond to e-mailed
messages.  Neil Burrows , a spokesman for BG, didn’t return a call
seeking comment.  Idenov Resigns  Sergey Kupriyanov , a spokesman for Moscow-based Gazprom,
Russia’s state-controlled gas export monopoly, declined to
comment on the cable. Phones at CNPC’s office in Almaty,
Kazakhstan, weren’t answered during working hours yesterday.
Beijing-based CNPC is China’s biggest oil company.  Idenov , a 43-year-old former regional vice president for
Shell, resigned from KazMunaiGaz in May. He led the 2008 talks
that resulted in Eni and its partners paying increased royalties
from Kashagan and ceding shares in the project to KazMunaiGaz.
Calls to Idenov’s mobile phone weren’t answered.  Galym Tumabayev, a spokesman for KazMunaiGaz in Astana,
declined to comment.  WikiLeaks, a nonprofit group that releases information the
government wants to keep confidential, has begun posting what it
says are more than 250,000 U.S. State Department documents
written from December 1966 to February 2010.  State Department spokeswoman  Nicole Thompson  declined to
confirm any information in the documents released by WikiLeaks,
saying it was the agency’s policy not to comment on specific
leaked materials. John Larsen, a spokesman at the U.S. embassy
in Astana, didn’t respond to a message left at his office.  The Hoagland cable was posted yesterday on the website of
the London-based Guardian, one of five newspapers that received
advance access to the documents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nariman Gizitdinov  in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  