-- Gilts Decline as Speculation of ECB Bond-Market Support Saps Safety Demand
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2010-12-01T17:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/gilts-decline-as-speculation-of-ecb-move-saps-safety-demand.html
U.K. government bonds fell as gains
in stock markets and speculation the European Central Bank may
take additional steps to contain the sovereign-debt crisis
reduced the appeal of British assets as a haven.  Ten-year gilts snapped three days of gains as a report
showed faster-than-forecast British manufacturing growth this
month. European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
yesterday signalled that investors are underestimating his
institution’s determination to bolster financial stability. The
benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  of stocks gained 2.2 percent, rising
for the first time since Nov. 25.  “There’s still appetite for risk,” said  Matteo Regesta ,
an interest-rate strategist at BNP Paribas SA in London. “There
was a strong rally in gilts yesterday, so it’s no wonder”
investors are reducing their positions today, he said.  The 10-year gilt yield gained 13 basis points to 3.36
percent at 4:40 p.m. in London. The two-year gilt  yield  rose
eight basis points to 0.98 percent, after falling as much as
nine basis points yesterday to the least since Nov. 10. The 4.5
percent security maturing March 2013 fell 0.19 or 1.9 pounds per
1,000-pound ($1,562) face amount, to 107.85.  German bunds, perceived to be the safest securities in
Europe, also dropped as a report showed the country’s retail
sales jumped in October by the most in almost three years.  The pound lost 0.8 percent to 84.911 pence per euro and was
little changed at $1.5568.  Trichet Comments  The ECB’s Governing Council will meet tomorrow amid
speculation it will again delay exiting emergency liquidity
measures. All 52 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg expect the
central bank to leave its key interest rate unchanged at 1
percent.  “I don’t believe that financial stability in the euro zone
could really be called into question,” Trichet told lawmakers
in Brussels yesterday.  Gilts outperformed their European counterparts and the
pound advanced against the euro this week as Ireland’s 85
billion-euro ($111 billion) aid package failed to ease concern
that the euro-area’s debt crisis will worsen.  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to hold 10-
year gilts instead of similar maturity bunds narrowed to 59
basis points today. It dropped to 55 basis points yesterday, the
least since Oct.26.  The 10-year Italian bond yield fell 17 basis points to 4.53
percent today, narrowing the yield premium investors demand to
hold the securities instead of benchmark bunds to 173 basis
points. The yield on similar-maturity Spanish debt fell 24 basis
points to 5.29 percent, narrowing the yield spread to 251 basis
points from 283 basis points.  British Manufacturing  Britain’s currency has gained 0.1 percent in the past
month, compared with a 3.3 percent decline by the euro,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes,
which track the performance of a basket of 10 currencies.  An index of U.K. manufacturing growth rose to 58 in
November from 55.4 the previous month, Markit Economics and the
Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply said in a statement
in London today. That was the highest reading since May. A
measure above 50 indicates expansion.  Losses by gilts may be limited as other data signals the
U.K. economic recovery is losing steam, making it likely the
central bank will keep its main interest rate at a record low
and maintain its asset-buying program at 200 billion pounds.  The average  price  of a U.K. home dropped by 0.3 percent in
November, a report by Nationwide Building Society showed. From a
year earlier, prices increased 0.4 percent, slowing from 1.4
percent growth in October, the nation’s biggest customer-owned
lender said in an e-mailed statement today.  “We expect gilts to make further significant gains in
early 2011 as the economy starts to face stronger headwinds,”
 David Page , fixed-income strategists at Lloyds TSB Corporate
Markets in London, wrote in a note today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  