-- Glaxo, Valeant Epilepsy Medicine Rejected by FDA for `Nonclinical' Reasons
-- B y   D a v i d   O l m o s   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2010-12-02T00:51:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/glaxo-valeant-epilepsy-medicine-rejected-by-fda-for-nonclinical-reasons.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc  and  Valeant
Pharmaceuticals International Inc. ’s experimental epilepsy
drug was rejected by U.S. regulators for “nonclinical”
reasons, the companies said.  Glaxo, based in London, and Valeant, based in Mississauga,
Ontario, are evaluating the Food and Drug Administration’s
decision not to approve the medicine, ezogabine, the companies
said today in a statement. Glaxo, the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker,
bought global marketing rights to the product from Valeant in
2008. The FDA on Aug. 30 had delayed a decision.  The experimental drug was aimed at the estimated 30 percent
of patients who can’t control seizures with current epilepsy
medicines, leading to disability and an unsatisfactory quality
of life, Glaxo and Valeant said. More than 2 million people in
the U.S. have been diagnosed with  epilepsy  or have suffered from
an unprovoked seizure, according to the National Institute of
Neurological Disorders and Stroke, based in Bethesda, Maryland.  The companies “believe that these items can be addressed”
and “are working for a timely response to the FDA as soon as
possible in 2011,’ Glaxo and Valeant said in the statement.  Sales Estimate  Ezogabine has the potential to generate annual sales of
more than $600 million, according to analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. If approved, Glaxo’s sales of the drug, called
retigabine outside the U.S., would be 334.5 million pounds
($532.8 million) in 2014, according to the average  estimate  of
two analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Two analysts projected the
product would have brought in $117.9 million in revenue for
Valeant that same year.  Valeant  shares  fell 2.9 percent to $26.15 at 6:33 p.m. in
extended trading after closing up $1.05, or 4 percent, to
$26.92, in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Robin Gaitens , a Glaxo spokeswoman, declined comment beyond
the companies’ statement on the FDA action.  Ezogabine acts on the brain’s potassium channel,
controlling nerve cells so they don’t become over-stimulated and
cause a seizure. Most current drugs regulate sodium or calcium
channels.  An FDA advisory panel concluded Aug. 11 that ezogabine
worked as an add-on treatment and that bladder blockage, a side
effect seen in studies, can be controlled by monitoring
patients.  The treatment was linked in studies to cases of urinary
retention, an inability to empty the bladder, which may cause
infections or permanent bladder and kidney damage. While most
cases were reversible, FDA staff called it a ‘‘significant
safety issue” in a report released before the panel meeting.  The FDA is asking for “some end-of-approval type
requirements,” Laura Little, a spokeswoman for Valeant, said in
a telephone interview. She declined to elaborate on those
requirements and said the companies anticipate gaining U.S.
clearance for the treatment in the first quarter of 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net ;
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  