-- Global Rice Output Forecast Cut by UN on Drought, Flooding in Top Shippers
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2010-12-01T02:25:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/global-rice-output-forecast-cut-by-un-on-drought-flooding-in-top-shippers.html
Global rice production will be 6.5
million metric tons smaller than previously estimated as crops
around Asia “deteriorated” because of droughts and flooding,
the United Nations said.  Rough-rice production will be 697.9 million tons, or 465.4
million tons of milled grain, smaller than the 704.4 million
tons estimated in June, the UN Food & Agriculture Organization
said in a  report  yesterday. That’s the agency’s third output
forecast reduction since April.  The FAO trimmed its harvest estimates for China and India
because of a combination of drought and floods. Still, global
output will be the highest on record, it said.  The export price for  Thai rice , the benchmark for Asia, has
gained 20 percent from this year’s low in July as flooding in
Pakistan, Thailand and Vietnam, the three biggest exporters,
damaged crops, while hot weather curbed yields in the U.S.  The FAO Rice Price  Index , which tracks 16 export prices
from the world’s biggest shippers, surged 50 points since June
to 260 points in November, the highest in at least a year, as
prices of Thai and Vietnam rice gained.  “International rice export prices will be heavily
influenced by the arrival of newly harvested supplies from 2010
main paddy crops in major northern hemisphere countries,” the
FAO said. “Government policies will continue to play an
important role in determining the direction” of prices, it said
in the report.  The FAO’s estimates compare with the U.S. Department of
Agriculture’s forecast for 451.4 million tons of global milled
rice output, and a supply deficit of 1.1 million tons, the first
deficit in four years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  