-- Global Stocks to Rise 15% Next Year as `Air Comes Out of Gold,' RCM Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-01T00:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/global-stocks-to-rise-15-in-2011-beating-bonds-gold-rcm-s-ceo-says.html
Global stocks  may rally as much as 15
percent next year, outperforming bonds and precious metals,
according to  Udo Frank , chief executive officer of RCM Capital
Management LLC.  “2011 will be a positive year for the global economy and
equities as an asset class,” Frank, 51, said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s Shanghai office. “We see double-digit gains for
global equities. It could be around 15 percent.”  RCM, which has $146 billion under management and is a unit
of Allianz Global Investors, joins UBS AG in predicting gains
for world stocks in 2011. Global equities are likely to
outperform other securities as corporations add leverage,
correlations fall and the risk that political actions will
derail the global recovery eases, UBS said yesterday.  Frank predicts “balanced” gains for equities in the U.S.,
Europe and the emerging markets as world economic growth
quickens from this year’s levels and corporate earnings grow at
a “double-digit” pace. Stocks will also outperform other asset
classes as investors turn away from gold and other precious
metals after they surged to record highs this year, he said.  “We see the air coming out of gold and precious metals,”
Frank said. “Valuation-wise, equities haven’t been as inflated
as bonds and commodities.”  Spot gold has gained 25 percent this year, reaching a
record $1,424.60 an ounce on Nov. 9. U.S. Treasuries have
returned 7.4 percent this year, compared with a 3.5 percent gain
for the MSCI All-Country World Index, the benchmark index for
shares in emerging and developed nations. Stocks gained
worldwide after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
suggested on Aug. 27 that he was prepared to use a technique
known as quantitative easing to drive down interest rates to
spur economic growth.  ‘Good Shape’  While the U.S. economy won’t return to “trend growth” any
time soon, consumers are “feeling more confident” and
employment data will improve, Frank said.  “The U.S. economy is in the process of healing,” he said.
“Growth in emerging markets is in solid footing and the core of
Europe is in reasonably good shape. The three key drivers of
world growth are in reasonably good shape.”  Among emerging markets, China’s stocks will rise next year,
Frank said. The risks for the equity market will increase from
the end of 2011 as the government tightens monetary policy to
slow growth and move its economy away from exports to one based
on consumption, he said.  Frank said he has a “small preference” for Europe and the
emerging markets over the U.S. as European Union states, led by
Germany, “step up and move in a coordinated fashion” to
prevent the region’s debt crisis from spreading. Portugal is now
most at risk, he said, after EU finance ministers gave Ireland
an 85 billion-euro package ($111 billion) this month to rescue
its banks and bolster government finances, the second bailout of
a euro nation after Greece in May.  “There will be a coordinated response to what Europe is
prepared to do if one of its member states in trouble,” Frank
said. “We are getting there very quickly.”  -- Irene Shen . With assistance from Inyoung Hwang in New York.
Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Richard Frost   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Irene Shen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3049 or
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  