-- Goldman Sachs's Emergency Loans From Fed Surpassed $24 Billion Amid Crisis
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2010-12-02T00:07:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/goldman-sachs-emergency-fed-loans-topped-24-billion-in-crisis.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , which
rebounded from the financial crisis to post record profit last
year, was a regular borrower from two emergency Federal Reserve
programs in 2008 and early 2009, new  data  show.  The firm borrowed from the Fed’s Term Securities Lending
Facility most weeks from March 2008 through April 2009, data
released by the Fed today show. Two units of the New York-based
firm borrowed as much as $24.2 billion from the Fed’s Primary
Dealer Credit Facility in the weeks after Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy in September 2008, the data show.  Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein , 56, was quoted by
Vanity Fair last year as saying the company might have survived
the credit crisis without government help. The firm’s president, Gary Cohn , was more definitive, according to the magazine: “I
think we would not have failed,” he was quoted as saying. “We
had cash.”  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , who was president of
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York during 2008 and 2009, has
disputed such an assessment.  “None of them would have survived,” without government
help, Geithner said in an interview last December with Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt .”  Bear Stearns  Goldman Sachs took a $100 million overnight loan from the
Primary Dealer Credit Facility on March 18, 2008, the day after
the facility was created in the wake of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ’s
rescue of Bear Stearns Cos. At the time, spokesman  Michael DuVally  said his firm was “testing” the facility and would use
it “if doing so makes sense from an economic and funding
diversification point of view.”  The firm didn’t borrow any more from the PDCF until Sept.
15, the day that Lehman Brothers filed the largest bankruptcy in
U.S. history. On that day Goldman Sachs borrowed $2.5 billion at
a 2.25 percent interest rate and furnished the Fed with $2.68
billion of collateral. The firm doubled the amount it borrowed
to $5 billion on Sept. 19 and doubled it again to $10 billion on
Sept. 22, when Goldman Sachs’s London subsidiary also took its
first PDCF loan of $250 million.  Peak Borrowing  At the peak, Goldman Sachs borrowed $24.2 billion on Oct.
15, which included $18 billion for the firm’s U.S. broker-dealer
and $6.2 billion for the firm’s London division, the data show.
The peak borrowing came two days after the U.S. Treasury
Department assembled executives from nine of the country’s
biggest financial firms and told them they’d be provided with
capital injections from the government, with Goldman Sachs
receiving $10 billion from the Troubled Asset Relief Program.  In its quarterly  filings  with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, Goldman Sachs didn’t disclose that it
borrowed from the PDCF.  The firm also borrowed from the Term Securities Lending
Facility, which offered longer-term funding than the PDCF’s
overnight loans. On March 28, 2008, Goldman Sachs borrowed $7
billion from the Fed’s TSLF in exchange for $8.42 billion of
collateral that included $3.5 billion in agency-backed mortgage
debt and $4.9 billion of non-agency backed mortgage debt. Before
the loan was scheduled to mature on April 25, Goldman Sachs
borrowed an additional $4 billion on April 11 and $223 million
on April 18.  Largest Loans  The two largest TSLF loans to Goldman Sachs were $7.5
billion on Dec. 4, 2008, and the same amount on Dec. 31, 2008,
the data show. The firm also didn’t disclose its TSLF borrowing
in its quarterly SEC filings, although it provided data on its
borrowing to the U.S. Treasury.  When the loans from the PDCF and the TLSF are combined, the
firm’s total borrowing from the Fed peaked at $35.39 billion on
Oct. 21 and Oct. 22, 2008, the data show.  DuVally, the spokesman in New York, declined to discuss the
borrowing and the firm’s decision not to disclose it, beyond a
statement responding to today’s release of Fed data.  “In late 2008, many of the U.S. funding markets were
clearly broken,” he said. “The Federal Reserve took essential
steps to fix these markets and its actions were very
successful.”  Goldman Sachs didn’t borrow as much as some of its rivals,
while it borrowed more than others.  Morgan Stanley , which was
the second-biggest U.S. securities firm after Goldman Sachs
before the two firms converted into banks in September 2008,
borrowed as much as $100.5 billion at its peak on Sept. 29,
2008, the data show. That includes $61.3 billion of loans from
the PDCF and $39.2 billion from the TSLF, the data show.  JPMorgan Chase  The borrowing occurred “during a time of immense financial
turmoil throughout the banking sector and the broader market,”
Morgan Stanley said in a statement.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the second-biggest U.S. bank by
assets, borrowed $3 billion from the Primary Dealer Credit
Facility on Sept. 15 and as much as $5 billion from the TSLF on
Oct. 17, the data show.  “We did not need the liquidity or funding” on the day of
Lehman’s bankruptcy, said  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan
spokeswoman. As Lehman’s collapse triggered broader financial
turmoil, “we had been encouraged by our regulators to use their
facilities when it was helpful to the marketplace and to remove
any stigma,” she said.  Even as JPMorgan borrowed less from those two programs than
Goldman Sachs or Morgan Stanley, it was borrowing from a
different Fed program that neither Goldman Sachs nor Morgan
Stanley tapped. JPMorgan Chase and its Chase Bank USA subsidiary
borrowed from the Term Asset Facility, which was established in
December 2007 to provide term loans to depositary institutions.  JPMorgan has previously said that it borrowed from the
Fed’s discount window without disclosing how much. Data on
discount window borrowing isn’t public.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 