-- Google Goes Where Obama Can't on Worker Pay: Chris Farrell
-- B y   C h r i s   F a r r e l l
-- 2010-12-01T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/google-goes-where-obama-can-t-on-worker-pay-commentary-by-chris-farrell.html
On Nov. 29, President  Barack Obama 
announced a two-year pay freeze for non-military federal
workers. And on Dec. 3 the government probably will say that the
U.S. unemployment rate is stuck at 9.6 percent, according to the
median estimate of 57 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News,
which will translate to anemic pay gains.  Not at  Google Inc.  The search-engine behemoth, looking to
stem the defection of key workers to other hot Silicon Valley
employers, announced last month that its workforce of about
22,000 employees will get a 10 percent wage hike starting in
2011. (Imagine, when will the average employee feel it’s a
reasonable gamble to walk into the boss’ office and demand a 10
percent raise or threaten to walk?)  “Google has to preempt the desire for its talented
employees to seek work elsewhere,” says  Richard Florida ,
director of the  Martin Prosperity Institute  at the University of
Toronto. “I’ve seen talented employees flee the previous
employer of the moment for the next employer of the moment --
just ask Microsoft.”  With about $33 billion in cash and short-term investments,
and a  stock-market capitalization  of almost $180 billion, Google
can afford to throw money and shares at its employees. Yet the
significance of Google’s across-the-board pay raise extends far
beyond corporate competition. It reflects a war for brains and
talent that is heating up throughout the information technology
ecosystem.  Scrambling for Position  Web-based search-engine companies, mobile Internet
providers, application developers, wireless companies and other
innovative communication firms are jockeying for position in
growing, and profitable, markets. And while the implosion of
housing, the bank bailouts, and the divisive politics of fiscal
and monetary policy received most of the headlines since 2007,
those years also marked the acceleration of the information-
intensive creative economy.  Google’s  growth  and shared prosperity serve as a
punctuation point. “I have been convinced for some time that we
are going through a major restructuring of the economy that is
much bigger than the difficult time we are going through right
now,” says  Erik Brynjolfsson , director of the MIT Center for
Digital Business.  Certainly, compared with most parts of the economy,
innovation is flourishing in the communications and information
ecology. Think  Apple Inc.  and apps.  Amazon.com Inc.  and online
retailers.  Payrolls Expand  That growth is showing up in jobs and wages. From October
2009 to October 2010, the number of jobs in computer systems
design and related services rose by 7.5 percent, according to
the  Bureau of Labor Statistics . Telecommunications employment
was up (0.9 percent), as was data processing, hosting and
related services (0.5 percent), computer and peripheral
equipment (0.7 percent), and communication equipment (0.7
percent).  The split shows up in geography as well. Workers in the
most cosmopolitan cities are seeing wage gains. For instance,
the average weekly wage increase for all private industry
workers in the U.S. from the first quarter of 2009 to the first
quarter of 2010 was 1 percent, according to the BLS. Yet average
weekly wages in tech-heavy San Francisco over the same time
period increased 5.4 percent. The gain in information-rich
Washington was 2.8 percent. New York City saw an 11.9 percent
increase, with the biggest pay earned in finance (22.7 percent)
and professional business services (10.9 percent).  ‘Knowledge Work’  “This isn’t about information technology,” says  Paul Saffo , a long-time Silicon Valley consultant and a managing
director at Discern Investment Analytics. “This is about
knowledge work.”  It’s intriguing to note that almost a century ago another
pay raise signaled a coming transformation of the U.S. economy.
Henry Ford announced on Jan. 5, 1914, that he would double his
factory workers’ wages to $5 a day. (He also reduced daily hours
worked from 9 to 8.)  Ford Motor Co. , like Google, had good
business reasons for its move: The Model-T assembly line was a
brutal place and in 1913 Ford had to hire 50,448 people to
maintain a workforce of 13,623, according to  Richard Tedlow ,
business historian at the Harvard Business School.  Paying workers a better wage than they could get elsewhere
encouraged loyalty. But the $5 wage also marked the passage
toward a mass-production economy where factory workers were
working class on the job but middle class at home, once they
shared in the remarkable productivity bounty of manufacturing.
And since smokestack America was such a dominant part of the
economy, the benefits spilled into industries outside
manufacturing.  Creative Class  Fast forward to today: The wealth of the emergent knowledge
economy or creator economy is largely being pocketed by
employers and employees in the creative industries. It’s a
growing sector of the economy with knowledge work or creative
work -- people who are paid to think -- including everyone from
software programmers to scientists to graphic designers.  According to Florida, the creative class made up 32 percent
of the American workforce in 2009, up from 29 percent in 1998.
In contrast, service jobs -- typically low-paying work --
comprise about 45 percent of the workforce.  It’s an open question as to whether America will persist as
a house divided between a relatively well-off knowledge sector
elite and everyone else. There’s no doubt that the knowledge
economy is one of the few bright spots in the private-sector
labor market and is giving a lift to a struggling economy.  ( Chris Farrell  is a Businessweek.com columnist. A version
of this column appears on Businessweek.com. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Chris Farrell at   cfarrell@mpr.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Daniel Beucke at   dbeucke@bloomberg.net  