-- Google Is Said to Be Opening E-Book Store Next Year, Taking On Amazon.com
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2010-12-01T14:38:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/google-is-said-to-be-opening-online-store-for-electronic-books.html
Google Inc. , stepping up competition
with Amazon.com Inc., will open an online store for electronic
versions of books in the U.S. this year and internationally in
2011, according to a person familiar with the company’s plans.  The Mountain View, California-based company is working with
book publishers to sell hundreds of thousands of e-books, said
the person, who asked not to be identified because details of
the project haven’t been made public.  Google aims to use its position as the world’s most popular
search engine to erode  Amazon ’s dominance of e-books, while
Apple Inc. harnesses the iPad tablet and iTunes online store to
make its own inroads. The competition means  Amazon ’s share of
digital books will decline to 35 percent over the next five
years from 90 percent in early 2010, New York-based analysts at
Credit Suisse Group AG estimated in February.  With  Google ’s effort, each publisher is negotiating
different revenue-sharing arrangements, though all of them will
keep the majority of the money from each sale, the person said.  Michael Kirkland, a spokesman for Google, confirmed the
company’s plan to start an online bookstore this year. He
declined to comment further about the project.  Google Books, a separate initiative to scan books and offer
publishers ways to sell them online, has been held up in court
until a settlement with publishers is approved.  Unfair Advantage?  An accord between Google, the Authors Guild, and other
authors and publishers would resolve a 2005 lawsuit that claimed
Google infringed copyrights by making digital copies of books
without permission. In February, the U.S. Justice Department
recommended altering the agreement. The agency argues that
Google will gain an advantage over competitors.  Amazon.com, Microsoft Corp., AT&T Inc., and the governments
of Germany and France also objected to the agreement, saying it
would give Google unfair control over digitized works.  Google  rose $12.06, or 2.2 percent, to $567.77 at 9:36 a.m.
New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The  shares  had
declined 10 percent this year before today.  The Wall Street Journal reported on the e-book store
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Douglas MacMillan  in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 