-- Icahn Extends Lions Gate Tender Offer, Adds Legal Victory as a Condition
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2010-12-01T02:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/icahn-extends-lions-gate-tender-offer-adds-legal-victory-as-a-condition.html
Carl Icahn  extended his hostile
takeover bid for  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp.  and made it
conditional on winning a legal fight to stop director  Mark Rachesky  from voting some shares.  The offer of $7.50 a share was extended from the Dec. 2
deadline until Dec. 10, Icahn said today in an e-mailed
statement. A judge must grant a preliminary injunction blocking
the vote by then for the offer to be valid, Icahn said.  Icahn, 74, is trying to reverse the effect of an equity-
for-debt swap in July that increased Rachesky’s stake by about
16 million shares to almost 29 percent. Icahn, who owns about 33
percent of the stock, has argued in lawsuits that management
conspired with large shareholders to thwart his bid.  Lions Gate, distributor of the “Saw” horror films and
 Tyler Perry  comedies, will hold its annual shareholder meeting
on Dec. 14 in Los Angeles. Icahn has proposed five nominees to
the board.  In his statement today, Icahn said he removed two previous
conditions, one that at least 50.1 percent of shares be tendered
and the other that Rachesky give up the extra shares.  Icahn’s stake in Vancouver-based Lions Gate was cut from
almost 38 percent in July, when the film and TV studio issued
new stock to Rachesky. The two sides have tussled in courts in
the U.S. and Canada.  Lions Gate, run from Santa Monica, California, fell 23
cents, or 3.1 percent, to $7.21 today in New York Stock Exchange
composite  trading . The shares have gained 24 percent this year.  Peter Wilkes , a Lions Gate spokesman, declined to comment.
Icahn didn’t immediately return a call to his New York office
after regular business hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  