-- Tiger Woods Says Family Will Play Biggest Role in 2011 Scheduling Choices
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2010-12-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/tiger-woods-says-family-will-play-biggest-role-in-2011-scheduling-choices.html
Tiger Woods  said he’ll look at his
commitments to his children before deciding which U.S. PGA Golf
tournaments to play in 2011 other than the four major
championships.  Woods said PGA Commissioner  Tim Finchem  has asked him to
play more events during the 2011 season as the world’s top golf
circuit nears the end of its television contracts.  While Woods went winless this season for the first time in
14 years as a professional, his efforts to win won’t override
his desire to be with his two children as he adjusts to life as
a single father. Woods and  Elin Nordegren  share custody
following their divorce.  “There are a lot of things that we’re trying to adapt to,
our new living conditions,” Woods said during a news conference
yesterday at Sherwood Country Club in Thousand Oaks, California,
site of this week’s  Chevron World Challenge . “That’s most
important. We’re trying to figure all that out, and then
obviously I still want to play golf at a high level and win golf
tournaments. It’s about getting a balance and trying to find
what the right balance is going forward.”  Having Finchem pressure him to play more events isn’t new,
said Woods, whose 281-week run atop the Official World Golf
Ranking ended Nov. 1, with England’s  Lee Westwood  taking over.  “He’s done that every year since he’s been a
commissioner,” said Woods, whose last PGA Tour win came at the
2009 BMW Championship, 14 months ago. “So that subject hasn’t
changed.”  More Events  Golf World magazine on Nov. 23  reported  that Finchem is
“reaching out to Woods to play more than he normally does” in
the first quarter of the season.  Finchem is under pressure to improve television ratings
prior to April’s Masters Tournament as the tour begins to
negotiate new television contracts, the magazine reported,
citing people it didn’t identify. The tour’s network television
agreements expire after the 2012 season.  “I’ve read that and it surprised me,” Woods’s agent, Mark
Steinberg, said in an interview. “I talk to Tim and the tour
every week, so I was surprised by that as well.”  Steinberg said Woods’s family will be a big factor in his
2011 playing schedule.  “We haven’t finalized the whole schedule yet, but we’re
getting pretty close,” Steinberg said. “There’s a new dynamic
to factor in and that’s the children.”  Endorsement Talks  Off the golf course, Steinberg has been trying to rebuild
Woods’s brand. Over the past six weeks, the agent said he’s had
discussions with companies about endorsement agreements with
Woods, who lost sponsors including Accenture Plc and  Procter &
Gamble Co. ’s Gillette razors following a November 2009 car
accident that led to his admission of extra-marital affairs.  “The response has been very encouraging,” Steinberg said.
“A number of the companies that I’ve talked to are interested
in hearing about the redemption side of things and about how he
has gone through the rehabilitation process.”  Steinberg said he’s finalizing an endorsement agreement
with an Asian-based company and also is close to getting a
sponsor for Woods’s golf bag. Woods’s charitable foundation has
been on his bag since General Motors Co.’s Buick brand ended its
agreement with the player in 2008.  Steinberg declined to identify the companies he’s spoken
with or the industries they’re in.  “It’s too premature to get in depth about any of them,”
Steinberg said. “Companies we have done business with in the
past, regardless of where the company is based, they do business
almost all over the world. I would expect that to be the case.”  While a recent poll said Woods’s endorsement future hinges
on his ability to win again, Steinberg said a survey conducted
by Woods’s IMG management agency revealed that the golfer has
strong appeal, regardless of how many titles he wins.  “We went to a very targeted demographic and the feedback
that we got was quite strong,” Steinberg said. “There was a
very positive response as to how companies would view an
association with Tiger. I can’t say that I was surprised, but
it’s still refreshing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Michael Buteau  in
Thousand Oaks, California, at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  