-- Indonesia's Credit Rating Put on Review for Possible Upgrade, Moody's Says
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2010-12-01T10:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/indonesia-s-credit-ratings-on-review-for-possible-upgrade-moody-s-says.html
Indonesia’s credit rating may be
raised by Moody’s Investors Service as growth and improving debt
levels prompt upgrades of emerging markets. Stocks and the
rupiah rose.  Moody’s today placed the Southeast Asian nation’s debt on
review for a possible upgrade after raising Indonesia’s credit
rating outlook to positive in June, it said in a statement. The
company has a Ba2 grade on Indonesia’s local- and foreign-
currency debt after its last upgrade of the country to two
levels below investment grade in September 2009.  “Indonesia’s  economic resilience  is accompanied by
sustained macroeconomic balance,” Moody’s said. “The economic
policy framework remains increasingly well positioned to deal
with evolving macroeconomic challenges and potential shocks.”  Emerging-market nations from China to Brazil and Turkey are
winning upgrades or positive outlooks on their sovereign
rankings, highlighting the relative strength of developing
economies amid soaring debt burdens in advanced nations from
Greece to Japan.  Indonesia currently shares the same rating as Turkey and
Bangladesh. A one-step upgrade will rank it alongside Greece,
Egypt and Colombia.  The  Jakarta stock index  closed up 2.5 percent to 3,619.09,
rising the most among Asia-Pacific benchmark indexes, while the
rupiah gained 0.2 percent to 9,019 per dollar.  Ireland’s Woes  Ireland, which became the second euro-area country to get a
bailout, saw its debt rating lowered two steps by Standard &
Poor’s on Nov. 23. S&P yesterday said it placed Portugal’s long-
term and short-term foreign and local currency sovereign credit
ratings on “CreditWatch” with “negative implications,”
reflecting its inability to reduce its current-account deficit.  Moody’s raised China’s debt rating to its fourth-highest
level of Aa3 on Nov. 11. A day later, S&P boosted the credit
ranking of the Philippines to the highest in more than seven
years.  Fitch Ratings increased the outlook on Turkey’s BB+ local
and foreign currency bond ratings to positive from stable last
week, while S&P said Brazil’s credit level may be raised because
of its strong growth and a “well capitalized” banking sector.  S&P lifted Indonesia’s sovereign credit rating to BB from
BB- on March 12, two levels below investment grade, with a
positive outlook. Fitch Ratings on Jan. 25 raised its rating to
one step below investment.  ‘Well Warranted’  The Moody’s “move is well warranted in our view,” said
 Robert Prior-Wandesforde , head of India and Southeast Asia
economics at Credit Suisse in Singapore. “If the country can
keep inflation well contained over the coming year, then a move
to investment grade beckons.”  “The review will have a positive impact on Indonesia,”
said  Destry Damayanti , an economist at PT Mandiri Sekuritas in
Jakarta. “This affirms the confidence existing investors have
in Indonesia and it will make new investors confident as well.
If Indonesia is rated investment grade, it will attract foreign
direct investment, not just to the financial market.”  Indonesia’s economy escaped a recession during last year’s
global slowdown and its expansion has spurred capital inflows,
pushed stocks to a record and lifted the rupiah to a three-year
high.  “The recent improvement in Bank Indonesia’s foreign
currency reserve position coupled with continuing reduction in
the government’s debt burden are reducing risk perceptions and
encouraging greater inflows of foreign direct investment and
long-term capital,” said  Aninda Mitra , lead sovereign analyst
for Indonesia at Moody’s.  Interest Rates  The nation’s economic recovery “is being sustained
alongside well managed external accounts and reasonably good
inflation fundamentals,” Mitra said.  Bank Indonesia has refrained from raising interest rates
from a record low this year, delaying an increase that could
attract more funds at a time when emerging markets are luring
investors away from developed economies.  Inflation accelerated in November, to an annual pace of
6.33 percent, the Central Bureau of Statistics said today,
breaching the central bank’s target range of 4 percent to 6
percent for 2010 and 2011. The  benchmark rate  of 6.5 percent is
“still relevant” for achieving the central bank’s inflation
goal next year, Deputy Governor  Budi Mulya  said Nov. 24.  Political Risk  “Amidst growing inflows of foreign portfolio investment,
monetary stability alongside ongoing policy flexibility are
enabling Indonesian authorities’ to gradually deepen money
markets and heighten financial absorption capabilities,” Mitra
said.  The key risk to Indonesia’s rating outlook is in the
country’s political system, where opposition from coalition
partners has slowed government efforts to implement economic
changes, Moody’s said.  “However, this has not yet impacted overall policy
management capabilities or near-term economic prospects,” Mitra
said. “If bank supervision is constrained by political
interference or poor governance, the risk of a shock to the real
economy or to the government’s contingent liabilities could
rise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  