-- Inflation at 30% Drives $4.6 Billion in Local Debt Sales: Argentina Credit
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n   a n d   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2010-12-01T03:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/inflation-at-30-drives-4-6-billion-in-local-debt-sales-argentina-credit.html
Argentine inflation of almost 30
percent will drive local governments to borrow 18.4 billion
pesos ($4.6 billion) next year to pay for rising wages and
budget deficits.  Provincial financing needs will jump from 17.3 billion
pesos this year as salaries increase an average of 20 percent in
2011, according to research firm  Economia y Regiones . Municipal
deficits will climb 38 percent to 9.9 billion pesos next year,
equal to 0.6 percent of gross domestic product, the firm says.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimates inflation is 25 percent,
while Economia y Regiones says it will be 26 percent in 2011.
The government reported a rate of 11.1 percent in October, the
fastest inflation in Latin America after Venezuela. Government
wages account for more than half of provincial budgets and
municipalities will step up spending ahead of October elections,
said  Veronica Sosa , an analyst at Buenos Aires-based Economia.  “Inflation, to the extent that it so greatly outpaces
economic growth, runs up spending more than the benefit it
delivers on increased tax revenue,” said  Patricio Esnaola , who
analyzes regional governments at Moody’s Investors Service in
Buenos Aires. “The result is more pressure, greater financing
needs.”  Provinces are increasing debt sales as borrowing costs fall
and record-low interest rates in the U.S. and Europe fuel demand
for Argentine bonds.  Yields Fall  Average yields  on government dollar bonds sank 278 basis
points since February to 9.24 percent after President Cristina
Fernandez de Kirchner swapped $12.2 billion of defaulted notes
in June. Argentine government bonds yield 406 basis points, or
4.06 percentage points,  more than  Brazilian dollar debt,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The capital city of Buenos Aires and the provinces of
Buenos Aires, Cordoba and Chubut are selling almost $2 billion
of bonds this year in international markets. The city also wants
to sell $500 million in bonds overseas in the first quarter of
2011 and is seeking a loan of about $1.4 billion from the
Export-Import Bank of China to help pay for a new subway line.  Felisa Stangatti, the spokeswoman at the Buenos Aires
province Economy Ministry, didn’t return a call seeking comment.  Local government tax revenue may increase 27 percent, while
spending rises 28 percent, Sosa said in a telephone interview.
Economia y Regiones is led by  Rogelio Frigerio , a former Economy
Ministry secretary. Founded in 1999, the research institute
focuses on regional economies and their relation to the central
government.  Municipalities are also seeing a decline in financing from
the federal government, Sosa said.  Debt Financing  “Most of the financing will be through debt because the
nation practically cut its financial assistance programs” to
the provinces, Sosa said. “While close to 10 billion pesos was
financed by the nation in 2009, this year that amount will be
sought in the market.”  Fernandez is spurning the overseas bond market, instead
relying on $6.6 billion of central bank  reserves  to help meet
this year’s financing needs. The president plans to use another
$7.5 billion of reserves next year and the government expects to
meet its needs without selling bonds in 2011, Finance Secretary
Hernan Lorenzino said in a Nov. 17 interview.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose 27 basis points to 582
yesterday, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. data.  Paris Club Talks  The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps rose 36 basis points to
739, according to data compiled by CMA. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities
or the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  Warrants linked to economic growth fell 0.18 cent to 13.01
cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The peso declined 0.1 percent to 3.9847 per dollar.  Demand for Argentine bonds may rise if the country is
successful negotiating the repayment of about $6.7 billion of
debt to the Paris Club group of creditor nations, said Christian
Cavanaugh, who oversees 850 million pesos at RJ Delta, a unit of
Raymond James Financial Inc., in Buenos Aires.  Fernandez announced plans last month to negotiate with the
group and Economy Minister Amado Boudou said Nov. 24 that he
plans to travel to Paris as soon as Dec. 9 to start talks.  “If Argentina strikes a deal with the Paris Club that
should favor new issuances from Argentine companies and
provinces,” Cavanaugh said. “The provinces want to raise money
and the market is waiting to finance them.”  IMF Moves  RJ Delta started a fund in September that primarily invests
in provincial and municipal debt, Cavanaugh said.  Argentina asked the International Monetary Fund last month
to help revamp the national consumer price index amid investor
concern government data doesn’t reflect the true inflation rate.  The pricing index has been questioned by private economists
and politicians, including former Economy Minister Roberto
Lavagna and Vice President Julio Cobos. They say the government
has underreported the rate since January 2007, when then-
President Nestor Kirchner shuffled national statistics agency
personnel.  Rising prices will weigh on provincial budgets next year,
Economia’s Sosa said.  “Inflation increases spending because salaries account for
a heavy proportion of the budgets,” she said. “Also 2011 is an
electoral year, so we expect more public works and plans the
provinces have that will increase spending more than income.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 Abenson9@bloomberg.net ;
 Camila Russo  in New York at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  