-- Insider-Trading Case Middleman Mined Taiwan for Tips, U.S. Says
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s ,   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2010-12-01T03:40:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/insider-trading-case-middleman-used-network-of-taiwan-contacts-u-s-says.html
Don Chu spent years building
technology contacts in his native Taiwan before a hedge fund
manager with a history of insider trading secretly recorded him
at the behest of the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation.  Chu, 56, a onetime employee at AT&T’s Bell Laboratories,
worked for Taiwanese firms including  CyberTan Technology Inc. 
and  Z-Com Inc.  before joining  Primary Global Research LLC . PGR
connects investors with industry experts who provide insight
into a specific market. One client was Spherix Capital LLC, a
hedge fund where  Richard Choo-Beng Lee  used secret tips to trade
stocks, according to Lee’s guilty plea last year.  Lee helped the FBI tape Chu in a probe of insider trading
by hedge funds including Galleon Group LLC, the first such case
where wiretaps were used.  Raj Rajaratnam , Galleon’s co-founder,
is the central figure in an investigation that has led to 14
guilty pleas, including Lee’s. The tapes that Lee made, and
other evidence, led to Chu’s arrest Nov. 24 on charges he helped
pass along inside data such as earnings estimates.  Chu, a naturalized U.S. citizen since 1987, helped
employees of U.S. companies  Broadcom Corp.  and Sierra Wireless
Inc. pass inside financial data in Taiwan to PGR clients and
also helped  Atheros Communications Inc.  workers leak
confidential information, according to an FBI complaint. He
worked at PGR for seven years and was its “bridge to Asia
experts and data sources,” according to the company. PGR fired
him after his arrest. He’d been set to fly Nov. 28 to Taiwan.  “If I was a company insider that did business with Chu,
I’d expect to be contacted by the FBI,” said Stuart Slotnick, a
white-collar criminal defense lawyer at Pittsburgh’s  Buchanan
Ingersoll & Rooney PC  who isn’t involved in the investigation.  U.S. Crackdown  The U.S. crackdown on insider trading since the arrest of
Rajaratnam a year ago has targeted hedge fund executives and
corporate officials. The ex-Galleon chief has denied wrongdoing
and faces trial next month in Manhattan federal court.
Prosecutors said he earned millions of dollars by trading on
secret inside tips. Lee’s partner at San Jose, California-based
Spherix,  Ali Far , also pleaded guilty in the Galleon probe.  That investigation, originally based on two connected
insider trading rings, has expanded with the Chu arrest to a
third phase involving expert-network firms such as PGR. Dan
Charnas, a spokesman for Mountain View, California-based PGR,
and Chu’s attorney James DeVita declined to comment.  C.L. “Dave” Liu “maintains PGR’s highest level
relationships in Taiwan and China” and serves on the boards of
technology companies, according to the company’s 2009 posting.
Michael Fu, the chief technology officer, “has extensive
technical and managerial expertise in the semiconductor and
electronic design automation industries,” according to the
posting.  Bell Labs  Before joining the networking firm, Chu spent more than 10
years at Bell Labs and helped start “numerous” companies,
including Z-Com, a Hsinchu, Taiwan-based wireless equipment
maker, according to his company biography from 2009.  Z-Com’s founder and chief executive officer,  John Shieh ,
said he hired Chu around 1998 as vice president of product
development. The two had met in the mid-1980s when they worked
at Bell Labs, Shieh said in an interview. Chu stayed at Z-Com
for about three years before returning to the U.S. to have
surgery for a stomach problem, according to Shieh.  PGR’s description of Chu as having started Z-Com was
incorrect, said Shieh, who founded the company in 1995. Z-Com
had 139 workers at the end of June, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “I was his boss,” Shieh said. “He accomplished the
things that I asked him to do in product development.”  Surprised  Shieh said he was surprised to learn of Chu’s arrest.  “He came back to Taiwan and was doing some consulting,”
he said. “He was involved in market information.”  Chu also served as chief technology officer and senior vice
president of  AboCom Systems Inc. , and chief technology officer
and U.S. general manager of  CyberTan , according to a PGR
biography on its website. Both firms are based in Hsinchu.  “He was very nice and a gentleman,” said AboCom
spokeswoman Candy Chou. She said she was “a bit surprised” at
the arrest of Chu, who she said worked at the company for about
a year until 2006 or 2007. CyberTan spokeswoman Lynn Kuo said
Chu worked at the company for “a few months” and left by 2005.
Kuo said the company no longer has business ties to Chu.  Primary Global described itself in a February 2010
statement as “a leading independent investment research firm
providing institutional money managers and analysts with market
intelligence through a global network of industry experts.”  Specialties  The sectors it covers are technology, health care,
financial services, media and Internet, real estate, alternative
energy, retail, and energy and industrials.  Some of its co-founders have worked at U.S. and Taiwanese
companies. PGR Chief Executive Officer  Unni Narayanan  held “key
management positions” at Intel Corp. and spent “several
years” at  IBM Corp. , according to a 2009 website posting by
PGR.  Amy Kircos, a spokesman for Santa Clara, California-based
Intel, and IBM spokesman  Ari Fishkind , didn’t have immediate
comments.  Liu, a former faculty member at the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology in Cambridge and the University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign, agreed to Narayanan’s request in 2003 to list
him on Primary Global’s website as a consultant to “lend him
some so-called reputation,” Liu said in an interview.  Liu said he did “nothing, honestly nothing,” for PGR for
the few years he remained listed as a consultant. Liu, Fu and
Narayanan aren’t accused of any wrongdoing.  Narayanan was one of Liu’s students at the University of
Illinois during the 1990s. The two haven’t been in contact for
“quite a while,” Liu said. He added that he drew a “token”
salary from Primary Global for a few years before ending the
relationship two years ago.  Taiwan Chip Designer  Liu is an independent director of  United Microelectronics
Corp. , the world’s second-largest contract maker of chips,
Powerchip Semiconductor Corp., Taiwan’s largest memory-chip
maker, and  Mediatek Inc. , Taiwan’s largest chip designer. Liu
said he didn’t want to help PGR in improper ways.  “I know my reputation, and I am extremely, extremely
careful about what I say and what I do,” Liu said. “That’s
exactly the reason I would not want to talk much.”  The criminal complaint against Chu said Lee and his co-
workers at Spherix Capital worked with PGR since late 2008.
PGR’s consultants at public companies gave inside information to
the hedge fund, according to the government.  ‘Market-Moving Events’  “There is probable cause to believe that Chu promotes the
firm’s consultation services by arranging for firm consultants
to provide material, nonpublic information regarding certain
public companies’ releases of significant financial information
or other market-moving events,” according to federal
prosecutors.  Chu is charged with one count of conspiracy to commit
securities fraud and one count of conspiracy to commit wire
fraud. He faces as long as 25 years in prison if convicted of
wire-fraud conspiracy. He was released on a $1 million personal
recognizance bond and ordered to surrender his passport.  Chu and his wife, Elinor, bought a home in Somerset, New
Jersey, in 2008 for $445,000, according to public real estate
records. They took out a $356,000 mortgage. At PGR, Chu earned
$6,000 a month and the firm covered his expenses, according to
the complaint.  Lee already knew Chu when he began cooperating in the
expanding Galleon probe in April 2009 at the behest of FBI
Special Agent B.J. Kang. Chu e-mailed inside information on June
19, 2009, to Lee about projected second-quarter earnings at
Atheros, the government said in court papers.  Chu allegedly left a voice-mail for Lee about Atheros’s
earnings on July 14, 2009, a week before the company was
supposed to release its second-quarter results.  Wi-Fi Networks  Atheros, based in Santa Clara, California, sells chips used
in Wi-Fi networks that provide short-range wireless Internet
connections. It also makes semiconductors for Bluetooth wireless
networks and chips used in global-positioning system, or GPS,
equipment. Greg Wood, a spokesman for Atheros, said the company
“will cooperate fully in any government investigation.”  On July 21, 2009, Lee got earnings information about an
unidentified technology company traded on the New York Stock
Exchange that was supposed to release its second-quarter
earnings that day, according to the complaint. The company was
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. , the Wall Street Journal reported.  “It’s a matter of public record that we announced our
earnings on that date,” said  Mike Silverman , a spokesman for
AMD. “It would be inappropriate for us to comment on what
appears to be an ongoing investigation. If we were to receive
any inquiries, we would of course cooperate with any
investigation.”  CC-1  The inside information came from an individual referred to
in court papers as CC-1, who was paid $200,000 by PGR from
January 2008 to last March, according to U.S. prosecutors.  In a meeting with Lee on Aug. 4, 2009, Chu allegedly said
his best Broadcom contact was a director-level employee in
charge of China. Lee told Chu that CC-1 gave him second-quarter
numbers, and “it’s like on the spot,” the U.S. said.  Chu responded: “On the spot. All depends on the person.
It, some guys willing to talk, some are not,” the U.S. said in
court papers.  Lee asked if “you guys” were “nervous,” and Chu said,
according to the complaint: “I’m nervous.”  He then warned that Lee should be careful because some
calls were recorded. Chu cautioned Lee about the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, saying the agency had become “too
strong.”  “In Asia, the SEC can’t do too much there,” he said.  Broadcom  Irvine, California-based  Broadcom , the biggest maker of
chips for television set-top boxes, said it has been in contact
with the U.S. government and is cooperating with an insider-
trading investigation.  Bill Blanning , a spokesman for Broadcom, said in an e-
mailed statement that none of the employees referred to in the
Chu criminal complaint are executive officers at the company.  Kang, the FBI agent, met with Chu on Nov. 21, the U.S.
said.  Chu told Kang that during meetings in Taiwan, a Sierra
Wireless employee gave inside financial data to hedge fund
clients, according to the complaint. Sharlene Myers, a
spokeswoman for the Richmond, British Columbia-based company,
said the employee referred to “is not a director or officer of
Sierra” and that the company intends to cooperate with the U.S.  Chu also claimed that a Broadcom employee met with the
founder of a New York-based hedge fund and disclosed inside
financial data, the government said.  “Certain hedge funds” asked PGR consultants about their
companies’ earnings data before their release, prosecutors said
in the complaint, adding that some of Chu’s contacts in Taiwan
provide revenue numbers to hedge funds.  “Some firm consultants will talk about their companies’
revenue numbers,” according to the complaint. “Some do not.”  The case is U.S. v. Chu, 10-Mag-2625, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Voreacos  in U.S. District Court in Newark, New Jersey, at
   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 David Glovin  in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Culpan  in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 