-- Intel, Nvidia Are Seeking Settlement of Chip Dispute
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2010-12-01T21:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/intel-nvidia-are-said-to-discuss-settlement-of-technology-sharing-dispute.html
Intel Corp.  and Nvidia Corp. are in
talks aimed at settling a legal dispute over the use of each
other’s technology, two people familiar with the matter said.  The people, who asked not to be identified because the
talks are private, wouldn’t outline settlement terms.  Nvidia, a maker of graphics chips, accused its larger rival
in March 2009 of breaching a contract that let the companies use
each other’s capabilities. A month earlier, Intel had asked a
judge to say the cross-licensing agreement between the two
companies was no longer valid.  Settlement of the lawsuit and counterclaim would let the
companies avoid a possibly lengthy trial and give Intel access
to the graphics capabilities it needs to compete with Advanced
Micro Devices Inc., said  Uche Orji , an analyst at UBS AG in New
York. Intel may also have to pay a settlement, Orji said.  “Given the current regulatory backdrop, we expect Intel to
avoid the public scrutiny of a trial that could cloud its access
to Nvidia’s graphics and parallel computing patents, and may
therefore settle with Nvidia,” Orji wrote in a research report.  The trial had been scheduled to begin Dec. 6 in Delaware
Chancery Court in Wilmington, Delaware. The companies canceled
the court date this week.  Gregory Williams , a  lawyer  at Richards Layton & Finger who
represents Nvidia, and  Martin Lessner , who works on behalf of
Intel at  Young Conaway Stargatt & Taylor , didn’t return messages
seeking comment after business hours yesterday.  Intel rose 32 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $21.48 at 4 p.m. in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. It has gained 5.3 percent this
year. Nvidia rose 60 cents, or 4.4 percent, to $14.21. Shares
have fallen 24 percent this year.  Legal Wrangling  The dispute began when Intel, the world’s largest
chipmaker, asked a Delaware judge to declare that a licensing
agreement between the Santa Clara, California-based companies
doesn’t cover future products.  Nvidia filed a countersuit alleging breach of contract and
seeking a termination of Intel’s right to use some Nvidia
patents.  The case is Intel Corp. v. Nvidia Corp., CA4373, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  