-- Investors Should Avoid `Oversold' Developers in India: Technical Analysis
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2010-12-01T05:44:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/investors-should-avoid-oversold-developers-in-india-technical-analysis.html
Investors should avoid getting
“stuck” in Indian developers even as the property index
extended the biggest advance in more than six months yesterday,
according to IIFL Private Wealth Management Ltd.  The Bombay Stock Exchange  Realty  Index of 13 property
stocks climbed 2.8 percent to 3,007.80 as of 11:12 a.m. in
Mumbai, extending yesterday’s 5.7 percent advance, the most
since May 10. Stocks rebounded following a decline last week as
Indian authorities arrested eight executives including
Ramachandran R. Nair, chief executive officer of  LIC Housing
Finance Ltd. , amid an alleged bribery investigation.  The index is trading below its 200-day  moving average  of
3,415.31 for an 11th day, which IIFL said is a sign of weakness.
The benchmark Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index has been
above its 200-day moving average since June 10, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, based on the technical indicator
that tracks a security’s price over a period of time.  Property stocks “made lower lows than what they made the
previous time the market corrected,” said  Anu Jain , vice
president at Mumbai-based IIFL. “That’s a sign these stocks are
far weaker than the market.”  The Central Bureau of Investigation is probing whether
preferential treatment was given to developers. LIC Housing
Finance, the property financing arm of India’s largest insurer,
is at the center of the investigation.  ‘Stay Away’  The realty index dropped to its lowest in a year on Nov.
26, driving its  relative strength  indexes to 17.81. RSI indexes
are based on share movements in the previous 14 days and
readings of 30 or less indicate to some analysts that stocks are
set to rise. The relative strength index climbed to 33.89 today.  “It’s a badly oversold sector so it’s just bouncing
back,” Jain said. “I would stay away from the sector. It will
give sharp bounces which look interesting but one can get stuck
very fast.”  Within the industry, the trend lines are all broken, and
the only one showing some resilience is  DLF Ltd. , the nation’s
biggest developer, she said.  Housing Development & Infrastructure Ltd.  increased 4.5
percent to 197.9 rupees.  DLF  advanced 2.2 percent to 313.5,
while  Unitech Ltd. , the second-largest developer, climbed 2.1
percent.  DB Realty  added 5 percent.  Anjani Kumar Singh, a lawyer representing one of the
arrested, has said all eight have opposed the investigating
agency’s custody and will base their defense on the report
filed.  IIFL has a “buy” rating on Godrej Properties Ltd. and
Oberoi Realty Ltd. because they don’t have a working capital or
cash flow problem, Jain said.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a
security, commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pooja Thakur  in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  