-- Nokia, HTC Overturn Two-Thirds of IPCom Mobile Phone Patent
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2010-12-01T17:10:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/ipcom-wins-court-backing-for-part-of-mobile-phone-patent.html
Nokia Oyj  and  HTC Corp.  said they won
part of a bid to overturn a mobile-phone patent that
intellectual property holding company  IPCom GmbH & Co.  relies on
in litigation against the two device makers.  Germany’s Federal Patent Court in Munich today struck down
about two-thirds of the patent, upholding one portion. Nokia and
HTC had asked the court to totally void the patent in the
country.  IPCom, based in Pullach, Germany, is seeking to force Nokia
and HTC to pay royalties for a portfolio of mobile technology
patents it acquired from  Robert Bosch GmbH  in 2007. Nokia
overturned some IPCom patents in a U.K. court and lost a bid to
invalidate another patent at the European Patent Office.  “This is a great victory for us,” HTC’s German lawyer,
Martin Chakraborty, said after the ruling. “The part that’s
left for IPCom now won’t help them much in the case pending in
civil court against us.”  The court said in the ruling about the cost of litigation
that IPCom lost two thirds of the case and prevailed in one
third. The ruling can be appealed.  “I can say now that our only task here was to determine
who will appeal,” presiding Judge Wolfgang Gutermuth said after
the delivering the ruling. “We know that this case will move up
to Germany’s top civil court.”  Patent Protection  IPCom changed its strategy during the case and had given up
some claims about what the patent protects. At a hearing today
before the ruling, the court said it was unlikely to uphold the
protection IPCom had sought at an Oct. 27 session. After IPCom
lawyers narrowed the patent claims, the court backed that part.  “It’s a very positive ruling for IPCom because the patent
is now valid,” IPCom Managing Director Christoph Schoeller said
in an e-mailed statement. “We hope the civil litigation based
on that patent will now come to a conclusion we’ve been fighting
for years. Nokia and HTC haven’t paid a cent for using the
patents for years.”  The court agreed with Nokia’s view that the patent was
invalid as granted and found most of IPCom’s amended claims also
to be invalid, Nokia spokesman  Mark Durrant  said in a e-mailed
statement. The one patent claim which has survived so narrows
the patent as to require the re-examination of any alleged
infringement, he said.  Nokia  rose 3.3 percent, or 23.5 euro cents, to 7.35 euros
at the close of trading in Helsinki.  IPCom has filed separate infringement suits in German
courts to stop the handset makers from selling products in that
country. Some of the suits were put on hold while patent
authorities and patent courts rule on the validity of the
intellectual property.  IPCom won an infringement case against HTC in a Mannheim
court based on the patent in today’s case. That suit is on
appeal. Chakraborty said he is now optimistic he will win the
appeals case.  Today’s cases are: BPatG, 5 Ni 67/09 (EU) and 5 Ni 77/09
(EU). The patent is: EP 1186189 (DE 500 14321).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Munich via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 