-- Iran Calls Nuclear Physicist's Killing Terrorism, Notes `Western Silence'
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d ,   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f   a n d   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2010-12-01T16:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/iran-calls-nuclear-physicist-s-killing-terrorism-notes-western-silence-.html
Iranian Foreign Minister  Manouchehr Mottaki  said the killing this week of a physicist working on the
country’s nuclear program was a “terrorist” operation.  Mottaki, speaking to reporters today in Kuwait City, said
“Western countries’ silence on the killing raises questions.”
Iran has blamed the U.S. and Israel for Majid Shahriari’s
death in the Nov. 29 bombing in Tehran. A second blast that day
injured Fereydoun Abasi, a physicist from the same university.
Another scientist was killed in the city in January in an attack
Iran also attributed to the U.S. and Israel.  International sanctions have increased pressure on Iran
over its nuclear program, which the U.S. and allies say may be
disguising weapons development. The injured scientist, also
known as Abasi-Davani, was linked to the program in a 2007
United Nations resolution that imposed one of four sets of UN
sanctions on Iran over the nuclear work.  Iran’s atomic development will be discussed when the
country returns to talks Dec. 6 and 7 in Geneva with a European
Union-led group that includes the U.S., China, Russia, France,
the U.K. and Germany. Mottaki said he hopes for “serious”
talks during the meeting and that while his country supports the
discussions, it shouldn’t have to “compromise” on its rights.  The purpose of next week’s “talks will be to underscore
the concerns of the entire international community about Iran’s
intentions,” U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said today
during visit to Kazakhstan.  ‘All Options’  Iran says its nuclear program is for civilian purposes,
such as generating electricity. Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said that Iran should know that “all options are on
the table” to halt the program.  After Iran blamed the U.S. and Israel for the attacks on
the scientists, an Israeli official, speaking on condition of
anonymity because of the sensitivity of the matter, said Israel
has a longstanding policy of not commenting on such allegations.  Accusations of U.S. involvement are “absurd,” White House
spokesman  Tommy Vietor  said on Nov. 29. “We have pursued
peaceful and diplomatic means to deal with Iran’s nuclear
program,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Fiona MacDonald  in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net ;
 Dahlia Kholaif  in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net ;
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net  