-- Irish Loan From London Pains Belfast Republicans Ruing ‘Empire’
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2010-12-01T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/ireland-loan-from-london-pains-belfast-republicans-ruing-days-of-empire-.html
Dan Murphy spent almost eight years
in jail for bombing a British Army base in Belfast, part of his
 fight  to sever the U.K.’s ties with Ireland.  Now, the former member of the Irish Republican Army is
trying to come to terms with the British government’s
involvement in this week’s European Union-led bailout of
Ireland, the country he wants to be part of. The offer by the
U.K. of 3.25 billion pounds ($5.1 billion) in aid to Ireland is
“humiliating, embarrassing,” he said.  “Not in a billion years did I think that the British would
be bailing out Ireland,” Murphy, 53, said at a centre for
former IRA prisoners in west Belfast. “It’s as though we are
going back to the days of the empire.”  The role of Britain in the rescue of Ireland’s collapsed
economy is resonating in Belfast as well as Dublin as economic
ties between the two countries are underscored almost 90 years
since Irish independence and the division of the island.  British banks were on the hook for $222 billion in loans to
Ireland as of March 31, more than any other country, according
to the Bank for International Settlements in Basel, Switzerland.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said on
Nov. 22 when announcing plans to help Ireland that the country
accounts for 5 percent of the U.K.’s goods sold abroad and 40
percent of Northern Ireland’s exports. It was in Britain’s
“national interest” to help,  he told parliament .  ‘Love, Hate’  “There is a love-hate relationship between Britain and
Ireland,” said  Vani Burooah , professor of economics at the
University of Ulster. “Whereas Irish people wouldn’t support
England in a football match, they recognize they are mutually
dependant economically. The relationship is very deep.”  Northern Ireland remained part of the U.K. when Ireland won
independence in 1922. It has a population of 1.8 million people
compared with 4.2 million in Ireland.  Three years ago, the province was forging a closer economic
alliance with Ireland, with the promise of banking jobs moving
to Belfast from Dublin. There was a boom in the local property
market, and peace had held for a decade after 30 years of
terrorist violence in the era known as “The Troubles.”  Since then, unemployment in Northern Ireland has doubled,
house prices have sunk by 43 percent, and the U.K. government is
cutting spending in the region by 4 billion pounds over four
years. Then Ireland, crippled by its banks, was forced to seek a
bailout from the EU and International Monetary Fund to the tune
of 67 billion euros ($87 billion).  ‘Selling Out’  “This European loan, this English loan, it’s selling
yourself out all over again,” said Joe Doherty, 55, who was
released from prison in 1999 after serving almost 20 years for
shooting dead a British soldier. “I find it embarrassing to
take the British money. We’ve been fighting to get them out.”  The offer of the loan from London shows a new “maturity”
in the relationship between Britain and Ireland, Irish Finance
Minister  Brian Lenihan  said Nov. 22. Some in Lenihan’s own
Fianna Fail party criticized the U.K.’s offer of aid as
lawmakers lamented a loss of economic sovereignty as the main
cost of Ireland’s rescue.  “This is our worst day, our lowest day,” Fianna Fail
lawmaker Ned O’Keefe, told broadcaster  RTE  on Nov. 19. “It’s
said that the U.K. chancellor is now offering us money, I never
believed I’d see that.”  Less than a week later, Fianna Fail lost an election for a
vacant parliamentary seat in Donegal to nationalist party  Sinn
Fein , formerly the political wing of the IRA.  Bombs, Boom  As the IRA fought a three-decade long  conflict  to end
British rule in Northern Ireland, the south joined the EU and
blossomed into the fastest-growing economy in Europe. The
“Celtic Tiger” emerged thanks to investment from companies
such as computer maker  Dell Inc . and drug producer  Pfizer Inc .  In the decade through 2006, Ireland’s economy grew at an
average annual rate of about 7 percent, the fastest among
countries that adopted the euro.  Ireland was one of the founding members of the common
currency in 1999, a year after the Good Friday Peace Agreement
formally ended the conflict in Northern Ireland that claimed the
lives of more than 3,500 people, half of them killed by
republican terrorists trying to unite Ireland.  For Murphy, who was born and lives on Belfast’s republican
stronghold of the Falls Road, the bailout is a sign that his
dream isn’t going to happen anytime soon.  ‘Celtic Kitten’  “I certainly would have looked elsewhere rather than take
a loan from the British,” he said, just yards from a 20 foot-
high street mural celebrating Irish rebels. “The south has
taken the money, and sure, in 10 years they might have their
Celtic kitten back again.”  Osborne, who became chancellor in May after the
 Conservative Party  won the U.K. election, said this week
Britain’s loan to Ireland will be denominated in pounds and the
rate of interest will be similar to those of the IMF and EU.  Kelvin Boyes, 38, who owns a photographic agency in
Belfast, said the U.K. isn’t obliged to provide aid.  “The U.K. isn’t part of the eurozone, so I don’t see why a
contribution should be made,” he said.  The Conservatives, known as Tories and traditionally the
most supportive of maintaining Northern Ireland’s U.K. link, are
held with special enmity by republicans. They were previously
known as the Conservative and Unionist Party.  The IRA bombed the Conservative Party’s conference in
Brighton, England, in 1984, almost killing then British Prime
Minister  Margaret Thatcher . They gained power this year under
Prime Minister  David Cameron , albeit in a coalition.  “That it’s a Tory government makes it even worse,” said
Murphy, who was sentenced to 15 years in jail in 1976, the year
the U.K. was forced to turn to the IMF for an  emergency loan . He
served half his sentence under a law that allowed paramilitary
prisoners to halve their jail term. “The bailout reeks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Colm Heatley  in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  