-- Sovereign Debt Losses Extend to Highest-Rated European Bonds: Euro Credit
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-12-01T11:43:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/irish-contagion-spreads-to-less-risky-bond-markets-euro-credit.html
Bailouts for Ireland and Greece and
speculation that Portugal and Spain may need aid are prompting
investors to shun some of Europe’s highest-rated bonds.  The cost of insuring German debt against default rose
yesterday to the highest since May. The yield on 10-year French
securities climbed to as much as 3.247 percent, the most in more
than in six months, and the extra yield, or spread, investors
demand to hold 10-year Belgian bonds instead of similar-maturity
German bunds climbed to the most since at least 1993.  “More rescuing means a bigger bill for everyone and this
partly explains the pressure on yields in some countries,
including Germany,” said  Elwin de Groot , a senior market
economist at Rabobank Groep in Utrecht, Netherlands. “Now we
have the deal with Ireland, there’s speculation about whether we
should rescue Portugal or even Spain after that. That’s creating
an environment in which there’s going to be risk transfers.”  Ireland’s decision on Nov. 28 to accept an 85 billion-euro
bailout ($111 billion) failed to end the spread of the European
debt crisis, fueling investor concern about the willingness and
ability of Europe’s stronger nations to foot the price of future
rescues. The cost of insuring Portuguese, Spanish and Italian
bonds climbed to records, as investors bet the EU’s 750 billion-
euro financial lifeline may not be enough to ward off defaults,
undermining confidence in euro-denominated debt.  Standard & Poor’s said it may cut Portugal’s credit ratings
on concern that the government has made little progress on
boosting economic growth to offset the effect of budget cuts.  Portuguese Auction  The country sold 500 million euros of 12-month bills today,
issuing them at an average yield of 5.281 percent, up from 4.813
percent at the previous auction on Nov. 17, data from the
country’s debt agency showed. The auction attracted bids for 2.5
times the amount offered, compared with a bid-to-cover ratio of
1.8 in November.  French and German bonds declined relative to U.S. and U.K.
counterparts this week. The debt underperformed even after the
Irish rescue and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  toned down calls for bondholders to
take losses in future restructurings. Some investors shifted
from euro-region debt to seek refuge in gilts on the prospect
that further bailouts may cause a splintering of the euro area.  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year French
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries surged 11 basis points since
the end of last week to 39 basis points on Nov. 29, the most
since July 2009, based on  closing prices . The spread between
yields on U.K. 10-year bonds and bunds, Europe’s benchmark
government securities, has narrowed by almost half since May and
was at 56 basis points as of 11:23 a.m. in London.  Fewer Euro Members  “There’s a perceived risk that there could be a credit
redistribution from weaker credits to the stronger ones,” said
 David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in
London. “This risk hasn’t been priced in to a large extent.”  Spain and Portugal will likely follow Ireland in tapping
the EU’s fund and the region’s inability to fund future bailouts
will probably force some of the 16 euro nations to abandon the
currency within five years,  Mohamed El-Erian , the chief
executive officer at Pacific Investment Management Co., said in
an interview on CNBC yesterday.  Concern that countries such as Germany may balk at funding
future aid packages intensified on Nov. 16 after Austrian
Finance Minister  Josef Proell  said he may withhold the country’s
share of the bailout for Greece if the government didn’t comply
with financial targets.  Top Credit Ratings  Austrian, Belgian, Dutch and French bonds fell on Nov. 25
after European Central Bank council member  Axel Weber  said a day
earlier that if necessary, governments can increase the size of
the euro area’s bailout fund that Ireland is the first nation to
tap.  Klaus Regling , who runs the largest part of the fund, told
Bild-Zeitung in an interview published that day the package was
big enough for all member states.  “That was the first time that the euro-debt crisis turned
into a negative for the core European bond markets,” said
 Marius Daheim , a senior fixed-income strategist at Bayerische
Landesbank in Munich. “Smaller core countries such as the
Netherlands and Austria in particular might be vulnerable
because of that.”  Austria, France and the Netherlands have the top Aaa rating
from Moody’s Investors Service, while Belgium is ranked one step
lower at Aa1, the same as Spain. Ireland’s grade is one level
below that at Aa2, down from Aaa as recently as July 2009.  S&P said yesterday it placed Portugal’s A-long-term and A-2
short-term foreign and local currency sovereign credit ratings
on “CreditWatch” with “negative implications.”  Backstop Size  “Policies the government has pursued have done little to
boost labor flexibility and productivity,” S&P’s report said.
“We project that the economy will contract by at least 2
percent in 2011 in real terms.”  The EU-International Monetary Fund backstop announced in
May won’t be enough should Spain need help and policy makers are
too divided to agree quickly on ways to shore up the financial
program, according to  Robin Marshall , a director of fixed income
at Smith & Williamson Investment Management.  “There was a feeling the fund was large enough to cope
with likely smaller countries, and then you come to this issue
of a large one like Spain where the banking system exposure and
the whole size of the economy makes it look inadequate,” said
Marshall, who helps manage about $20 billion in London. “The
size of the fund wouldn’t matter so much if there was a clear
willingness or agreement among policy makers that if necessary
they could expand it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  