-- Andrew Stein Pleads Guilty to Misdemeanor Charge of Failing to Pay Taxes
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-12-01T19:42:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/misdemeanor-charge-filed-against-ex-manhattan-borough-president-stein.html
Former Manhattan Borough President
 Andrew Stein  pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge of failure
to pay income taxes for 2008 and according to a prosecutor faces
up to 12 months in prison.  Stein, who also served as New York City Council President
from 1985 to 1994, was arrested in May along with investment
adviser  Kenneth Ira Starr , charged with committing a tax crime
and with lying to investigators. Stein wasn’t charged in Starr’s
investment-fraud scheme.  The former office-holder today admitted one count of
failing to pay his taxes knowing that he “had taxable income in
excess of $1 million for such year,” according to the charging
document.  “I was wrong, your honor,” Stein told U.S. Magistrate
Judge  Ronald Ellis . Stein said he filed his tax return and never
paid the taxes due.  “I stupidly did not pay the taxes for that year, and I
take full responsibility for it,” he said.  “You should have been setting money aside to pay your
income taxes, and instead you spent money on other things?”
Ellis asked, after a prosecutor said Stein had to acknowledge
that he acted willfully and intentionally.  “Yes, yes, sir,” Stein said. “It was wrong. It was 100
percent wrong not to pay it and I’m sorry. I filed correctly. I
had responsibility for it. I intended to pay some part of it.
It’s absolutely correct that I did not pay.” He added later,
“I was 100 percent wrong and 100 percent sorry.”  Felony Punishment  Assistant U.S. Attorney  William Harrington  said conviction
of a felony tax charge would have exposed Stein to as long as 37
months in prison. He faces as long as one year in prison when he
is sentenced March 1 under the plea agreement, the prosecutor
said in court.  “We have had time to evaluate the defendant and the
circumstances of the crime,” Harrington said. “I do think he’s
not a risk of flight.” The government didn’t object to Stein’s
being released today on his own recognizance.  Starr, the investment adviser, routed investor funds to
entities including Wind River LLC, a shell company created by
Stein, according to the complaint filed in May.  Stein was originally charged with two felonies: making
false statements in an IRS filing and making a false statement
to federal investigators for when questioned about Wind River.  At a bail hearing in May, Harrington said prosecutors were
probing Stein’s use of Wind River before coming across Starr’s
alleged fraud. He said investigators questioned Starr about
Stein before beginning to suspect that Starr broke the law.  Starr, 66, whose celebrity clients included actors
 Sylvester Stallone  and  Wesley Snipes , pleaded guilty in
September to defrauding his clients out of as much as
$50 million. He faces as long as 151 months in prison when he is
sentenced Feb. 2.  The case is U.S. v. Stein, 1:10-cr-01171, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 