-- U.S. Economy: Factories Expand, Companies Add Workers
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-12-01T21:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/ism-index-of-manufacturing-in-u-s-declined-to-56-6-in-november-from-56-9.html
Manufacturing in the U.S. expanded
for a 16th consecutive month in November and companies increased
payrolls, signs of growing confidence in the economic recovery.  The Institute for Supply Management said its  factory index 
was little changed at 56.6 after a five-month high of 56.9 in
October. A reading higher than 50 signals growth. Businesses
added 93,000 workers to payrolls in November, the most in three
years, according to ADP Employer Services.  Stocks rallied across the globe after reports showed
industrial strength extending to China and Europe, spurring
orders at companies such as Dow Chemical Co. Holiday sales gains
indicate factories stand to benefit further from a pickup in
consumer spending that would allow the recovery to become more
broad-based.  “Businesses are starting to feel better about the outlook
and so they’re willing to spend more on investment as well as to
hire,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont
Securities LLC in Stamford, Connecticut. “We had strong growth
early in the year, a little bit of a hiccup in the middle and
now things are starting to come back again.”  The Federal Reserve said today the economy gained strength
in 10 of 12 districts as hiring improved, manufacturing expanded
and retailers anticipated a stronger holiday shopping season.
Five Fed banks, including Boston and San Francisco, said the
economy grew “at a slight to modest” rate, while five others,
including New York and Chicago, reported a “somewhat stronger
pace of economic activity.”  Survey Median  A factory index reading of 56.5 was forecast for November,
according to the median projection in a Bloomberg News survey of
83 economists. Estimates for the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s
gauge ranged from 54 to 58.1. Figures from China and Europe
showed similar strength.  In Europe, manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in
four months in November, led by Germany, the region’s largest
economy. A  gauge  of manufacturing in the 16-nation euro area
rose to 55.3 from 54.6 the prior month, London-based Markit
Economics said today.  China’s  manufacturing  grew at a faster rate in November for
a fourth straight month. The Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to
55.2 from 54.7, China’s logistics federation said on its website
today.  Global Recovery  “Globally, the manufacturing sector continues to lead in
most of these economies,”  Norbert Ore , chairman of the ISM
factory survey, said in a conference call from Atlanta with
reporters. “It apparently has the ability to continue for the
foreseeable future.”  U.S. stocks jumped, with the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index 
gaining the most in three months. The S&P 500 increased 2.2 
percent to 1,206.07 at the 4 p.m. close in New York. The
benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell, pushing up the yield 
to 2.97 percent from 2.80 percent late yesterday.  The report from ADP Employer Services also showed the
increase in October payrolls was almost double the initial
estimate. Small companies in November added more workers than at
any time since the last recession began in December 2007.  “There’s just a feeling that maybe we’ve turned a corner”
in the labor market,  Joel Prakken , chairman of Macroeconomic
Advisers LLC, which produces the figures with ADP, said in a
conference call with reporters. “It looks to me as if hiring is
beginning to pick up. I do expect these employment numbers to
get firmer” in 2011, he said.  More Needed  Hiring may need to accelerate further to bring down an
 unemployment rate  hovering near a 26-year high of 10.1 percent.
A Labor Department report in two days will show companies added
155,000 workers last month, while the jobless rate held at 9.6
percent, according to the survey median.  As part of an effort to reach out to some of the nation’s
largest employers, President  Barack Obama  met with  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc.  Chief Executive Officer  Mike Duke  at the White House
on Nov. 29. The meeting is one of a series of sessions aimed at
soliciting the views of companies, with the goal of spurring the
recovery and adding jobs.  Dow Chemical, the world’s second-biggest chemical company,
said yesterday that fourth-quarter sales are matching those of
the prior three months, led by demand for materials used in
electronics.  ‘Going Gangbusters’  Electronics demand is “going gangbusters,” and commodity
plastics and chemical sales are still “strong,”  Bill Weideman ,
chief financial officer of the Midland, Michigan-based company,
said in an investor presentation broadcast on the Internet.
“Overall demand is very solid.”  The ISM’s measure of  new orders  index eased to 56.6 from
58.9, while the  production index  fell to 55, the lowest level
since June 2009, from 62.7.  The employment gauge was little changed at 57.5 from 57.7,
and the index of export orders dropped to 57 from 60.5.  The world’s largest economy grew at a 2.5 percent annual
pace from July through September, more than previously
calculated, as Americans boosted their spending, the Commerce
Department said last week. Consumer purchases, which account for
70 percent of the economy, rose at a 2.8 percent rate, the most
since the final three months of 2006.  Holiday sales are stronger as well. The average shopper in
the U.S. spent $365.34, or 6.4 percent more, over Thanksgiving
weekend than last year as more people picked up jewelry and
toys, the National Retail Federation said Nov. 28.  The recent gains in demand, from consumer spending to
business investment, prompted economists at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. today to boost U.S. growth forecasts. The economy will
expand 2.7 percent in 2011, up from the previous forecast of 2
percent, the group headed by  Jan Hatzius  in New York said in an
e-mail.  A Commerce Department report today showed  construction
spending  unexpectedly increased in October, lifted by the
biggest gain in residential projects in six months. The 0.7
percent increase matched the previous months’ gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  