-- Italian, Spanish, Irish Government Bonds Gain, Bunds Drop Before ECB Meets
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-12-01T16:55:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/italian-spanish-irish-10-year-treasury-bonds-rise-yield-spreads-narrow.html
Italian, Spanish and Irish 10-year
bonds rose relative to similar-maturity German government debt
as traders speculated the European Central Bank may announce
steps tomorrow to stem the spread of Europe’s fiscal crisis.  Bunds  slid as stocks rose amid signs the global economic
recovery is holding up. Demand fell at a German sale of
4.13 billion euros ($5.4 billion) of five-year notes, while
yields climbed at a Portuguese auction of bills. ECB President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  signalled yesterday investors are
underestimating policy makers’ determination to shore up the
region’s stability after the bonds of high-deficit euro-area
nations slumped.  “Markets are reacting to the comments by Trichet that
there could potentially be more substantial support from the
ECB,” said  Steven Mansell , director of interest-rate strategy
at Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. in London. “There’s a broad-
spread compression of spreads against Germany.”  The yield on 10-year bonds sold by Italy, Europe’s biggest
bond market, dropped 17 basis points to 4.53 percent as of
4:43 p.m. in London, narrowing the extra yield investors demand
to hold the securities instead of benchmark bunds by 26 basis
points to 173 basis points. The yield earlier fell to as low as
4.48 percent, the biggest drop since May 10, when the European
Union and the International Monetary Fund announced a backstop
for ailing nations worth about $1 trillion.  “I can see there being lots of willing sellers to the ECB
at these levels,” Mansell said.  The bund yield advanced 10 basis points to 2.77 percent.
The 2.5 percent security maturing in January 2021 fell 0.83, or
8.30 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 97.64. The five-year
note yield rose nine basis points to 1.77 percent.  Record Levels  Stocks and the euro gained for the first time in four days
and Treasuries declined amid optimism the recovery will be able
to survive the debt crisis that ravaged Europe’s bond markets
and weakened the 16-nation currency. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index
climbed 2 percent and the euro rose 0.6 percent to $1.3066.  Concern the European crisis will force more nations to
accept aid deepened this week after Ireland followed Greece in
requesting a bailout. Ireland’s rescue includes loans from the
European Financial Stability Facility at a rate of around 6.05
percent a year.  Declines in bonds from Italy, Spain and Belgium yesterday
pushed the yield premiums for the nations’ 10-year bonds to
euro-era records over bunds. Spanish 10-year securities rose on
just two days last month.  Irish Yields Drop  The ECB bought Irish and Portuguese bonds today, according
to at least two traders with knowledge of the transactions, who
declined to be identified because the deals are confidential.
Central banks bought Irish government bonds yesterday in bigger
amounts than they typically do, two people said then.  The Irish 10-year yield plunged 31 basis points to 9.13
percent. Portugal and Ireland led a decline in the cost of
insuring against losses on European government debt today, while
credit-default swaps on Belgium, Italy, and Spain also fell from
record high levels. Belgian 10-year  yields  were little changed
at 4.01 percent.  The yield on similar-maturity Spanish debt fell for the
first day in 12, tumbling 24 basis points to 5.33 percent,
reducing the yield spread to bunds to 252 basis points, from 283
basis points.  The ECB’s Governing Council will meet tomorrow amid
speculation it will again delay its exit from emergency
liquidity measures. All 52 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
expect the central bank to leave its  benchmark interest rate 
unchanged at an all-time low of 1 percent.  ‘Cheeky Buyer Moment’  “I don’t believe that financial stability in the euro zone
could really be called into question,” Trichet told lawmakers
in Brussels yesterday. Observers “are tending to underestimate
the determination of governments.”  “If the ECB spends even a little money now, it could
easily break the log-jam in spreads and tighten them,”  Bill Blain , a strategist at Matrix Corporate Capital LLP in London,
wrote in a client note today. “We’re approaching a cheeky buyer
moment here. We are not saying it’s a long-term investment, but
short term the market does look due some upside.”  Portuguese 10-year bonds advanced, with the yield pushed
down 30 basis points to 6.77 percent.  Standard & Poor’s yesterday put Portugal’s sovereign-debt
ratings on “CreditWatch” with “negative implications.”
Portuguese Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  said his country does
not need any aid, Diario Economico reported, citing comments he
made following a meeting with exporters in Lisbon.  ‘No Place to Hide’  The nation’s borrowing costs increased as it sold 500
million euros of 12-month bills, with yields rising to 5.281
percent from 4.813 percent at a Nov. 17 auction.  “There is no place to hide left for Portugal on the yield
curve,” said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist at
Commerzbank AG in London. “Yields are at levels that the market
is viewing as unsustainable. This should in the end increase the
pressure for Portugal to go for a bailout.”  Germany sold 4.13 billion euros of five-year debt, less
than the maximum 5 billion on offer, for an average yield of
1.73 percent.  “The overall bid fell short of the targeted amount,” said
Schnautz. “When the results were released we got another leg
lower” in bund prices, he said.  Signs of global economic strength helped curb demand for
German bonds. The Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said
today retail sales in the country increased by the most in
almost three years in October.  Europe’s  manufacturing industries  expanded at the fastest
pace in four months in November, led by Germany. A gauge in the
16-nation euro area rose to 55.3 from 54.6 in the previous
month, London-based Markit Economics said. It had previously
reported an increase to 55.5 in November. A reading above 50
indicates expansion.  China’s manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in seven
months in November, according to a report today. U.K.
manufacturing last month increased to the fastest pace in 16
years, separate data showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  