-- Mitsubishi’s Oakajee Needs Better Plan, Barnett Says
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2010-12-01T09:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/mitsubishi-s-oakajee-infrastructure-needs-better-plan-state-premier-says.html
Japan’s  Mitsubishi Corp.  and
Australia’s  Murchison Metals Ltd. , building a A$4 billion ($3.83
billion) iron ore rail and port development, need a better plan
for the project’s ownership to facilitate its funding, Western
Australian Premier  Colin Barnett  said.  “The participants in it need to get better organized in
terms of their corporate structure,” Barnett said in an ABC
Radio interview today. “Work out the ownership structure, and
the funds will flow.”  Oakajee Port & Rail Pty, jointly owned by Mitsubishi and
Murchison, on Nov. 4 delayed the start of the project by as many
as six months. The project may be redesigned to exclude
Mitsubishi and Murchison, which are also partners in the area’s
Jack Hills magnetite iron ore project, and to bring in Chinese
infrastructure builders, analyst Peter Strachan said.  “That would be a really good, logical outcome,” Strachan,
who heads Perth-based independent advisory firm StockAnalysis,
said today by phone. “There’s a mismatch of skills and funding.
Barnett’s trying to bang their heads together and get a more
sensible structure.”  Murchison Chairman  Paul Kopejtka  was traveling overseas
and was unavailable for comment, according to his office today.  “We’re not in a position to comment on this coverage,”
Mitsubishi said in an email response to queries from Bloomberg
News. “Through our joint ventures we continue to make every
possible effort to drive forward the feasibility studies of
these projects.”  Boardroom Talks  The terminal project near Geraldton, 430 kilometers (267
miles) north of the Western Australia capital, Perth, will allow
users to export 45 million metric tons of iron ore a year from
the Midwest region.  “There’s a lot of effort going on in boardrooms here and
overseas to better align the partners in this project so those
that are good at mining can concentrate on that and those that
are infrastructure developers and funders can concentrate on
that,” Barnett said. “I’m allowing a bit of time here for the
players to sort that out.”  Mitsubishi, Japan’s largest trading company by market value,
and Perth-based Murchison needed to raise about A$3 billion to
fund construction, Oakajee Port & Rail said in March 2009.
Government funding, split between the state and federal branches,
was initially to total A$678 million.  A Western Australian parliamentary report into the
development suggested the state government could be forced to
provide additional funding, the Australian Financial Review
reported yesterday.  “Can Mitsubishi fund the project? Of course they can,”
Barnett said. “Murchison, a small Australian mining company
producing small tonnages of iron ore; can they match a A$4
billion investment? I don’t know. That’s the question in the
market place.”  Chinese companies are in a better position to fund the
project than Murchison, he said, without naming any potential
investors. “So what I’m trying to do is align the various
partners with their capacity to actually fund their fair share
of the project.”  Mitsubishi and Murchison are also partners in Crosslands
Resources Ltd., which is developing the Jack Hills project in
Western Australia’s Midwest region and intends to use Oakajee’s
transport infrastructure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 