-- J&J-Merck Recall 12 Million Mylanta Bottles on Labels
-- B y   D a v i d   O l m o s
-- 2010-12-01T23:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/j-j-recalls-twelve-liquid-mylanta-products-over-labeling-problem.html
A unit of  Johnson & Johnson  and  Merck
& Co.  has recalled 12.3 million bottles of Mylanta in the U.S.
and Puerto Rico because the labels failed to inform consumers
about the alcohol content of the products, regulators said.  An internal review found the labels didn’t contain
information that alcohol was an ingredient in flavoring agents
for the over-the-counter medicines that relieve heartburn and
indigestion, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration said in a
Nov. 29 notice posted today on its  website . Flavoring agents may
contain less than 1 percent of alcohol, the notice said.  J&J, the world’s largest health-care products company,
announced Nov. 24 it was recalling 9.3 million bottles of
Tylenol cold treatments over labeling information on alcohol
content. In April, more than 40 types of New Brunswick, New
Jersey-based J&J’s children’s over-the-counter liquid medicines
were recalled, forcing a suspension of production at a plant and
reducing 2010 sales about $600 million, the company said in
July. The U.S. House Oversight and Government Reform Committee
has been investigating J&J’s handling of the April recall and a
separate incident involving Motrin tablets.  “It is unlikely that use of these products will cause
either alcohol absorption or alcohol sensitivity-related adverse
events,” the FDA notice said.  Mylanta, Alternagel  The current recall involves 12 liquid versions of Mylanta
and about 84,750 bottles of Alternagel, a heartburn medicine,
manufactured by Johnson & Johnson-Merck Consumer Pharmaceutical
Co. at a plant in Lancaster, Pennsylvania,  Marc Boston , a J&J
spokesman said in an interview. The unit is a joint venture of
New Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J and Whitehouse Station, New
Jersey-based Merck.  J&J rose 87 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $62.42 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . Merck gained 59
cents, or 1.7 percent, to $35.06.  Products will be recalled from retail and wholesale
locations, and consumers can continue to use the medicines,
Boston said in an e-mail. The recall was not related to any
safety problems with the drugs, he said.  The labeling on the products will be updated to include
information about the presence of alcohol, J&J said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  