-- Japan's Bonds Fall as Stocks Gain, Benchmark Yields Reach Five-Month High
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2010-12-02T06:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/japan-s-government-bonds-may-fall-on-stocks-weaker-yen-amid-u-s-recovery.html
Japanese  bonds  fell, pushing
benchmark yields to the highest level in five months, as a rally
in stocks and optimism the U.S. recovery is gaining momentum
damped demand for the safety of government debt.  Ten-year bond futures snapped a three-day gain after
Treasuries dropped yesterday and economists said a U.S. report
tomorrow will show employers added jobs for a second month.
Bonds also declined as the yen traded near a two-month low
versus the dollar, improving the outlook for Japanese exporters.  “Expectations are mounting for U.S. jobs data,” said
 Shinji Nomura , chief debt strategist at Nikko Cordial Securities
Inc. in Tokyo. “The yen is trading at the current level, thanks
to an optimistic shift in the U.S. economy. Ten-year yields may
climb to as high as 1.40 percent by year-end.”  The yield on the 1.2 percent bond due December 2020 that
was auctioned yesterday rose three basis points to 1.2 percent
as of 3:21 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s
largest interdealer debt broker. The yield is at the highest
level since June 22.  Ten-year bond futures for December delivery dropped 0.39 to
140.94 at the afternoon close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Should Nomura’s yield forecast prove accurate, investors
who buy today will incur a 1.7 percent loss, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Stocks, Yen  Demand for debt waned as stocks rallied around the world.
The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  rose the most in two weeks,
advancing 1.8 percent.  The yen traded at 84.11 per dollar today after declining to
84.41 on Nov. 29, the lowest level since Sept. 27. A weaker yen
boosts the value of overseas income at Japanese companies when
converted into their home currency.  U.S. payrolls rose by 145,000 in November after increasing
by 151,000 the previous month, according to a Bloomberg News
survey before tomorrow’s Labor Department report.  “U.S. economic data have been good since October as the
Federal Reserve tries to boost inflation expectations,” said
 Makoto Noji , a Tokyo-based strategist at Mizuho Securities
Research & Consulting Co., a unit of Japan’s second-largest
banking group. Low bond yields “can’t be justified,” he said.  Noji correctly predicted in October that Japan’s 10-year
yields would increase to 1.2 percent by the end of the year. The
yields have climbed from 0.82 percent on Oct. 6, which was the
lowest since July 2003.  The decline in bonds was tempered on speculation 10-year
yields at the highest since June will encourage investors to buy.  “When yields approach 1.2 percent, investors may find it a
good time to buy bonds on dips, especially new 10-year
securities,”  Kazuhiko Sano , chief strategist at Tokai Tokyo
Securities Co., wrote today in a note to clients.  An auction of 10-year bonds yesterday drew bids for 2.41
times the amount on offer, the lowest so-called bid-to-cover
ratio since July 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 