-- Japan May Raise GDP Estimate After Capital Spending Rose in Third Quarter
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2010-12-02T07:04:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/japan-s-capital-spending-increases-for-first-time-in-more-than-three-years.html
Japan’s economy probably grew faster
last quarter than the government initially estimated, analysts
said after a report showed companies boosted spending for the
first time in more than three years.  Gross domestic product  expanded an annualized 4.2 percent
in the third quarter, compared with a preliminary reading of 3.9
percent, according to the median forecast of 10 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. A Finance Ministry report today
showed  capital spending  excluding software rose 4.8 percent, a
figure that will be used to calculate revised GDP due Dec. 9.  The rebound in business investment may not be strong enough
to counter slowing growth in  exports , which pulled Japan out of
its deepest postwar recession in 2008-2009. The yen’s 10 percent
advance against the dollar this year is threatening the profits
of exporters and eroding the competitiveness of Japanese
companies aboard.  “Japan’s capital investment is rising at an extremely slow
pace,” said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , a senior economist at Itochu
Corp. in Tokyo, who forecasts the economy will contract this
quarter. “It’s hard for companies to anticipate any robust
demand at home and the yen’s strength is clouding the outlook
for exports.”  The preliminary report released last month showed the
third-quarter growth was led by private consumption, which
accounted for about 60 percent of GDP. Households rushed to buy
cars before the end of the government’s subsidy program and
smokers stocked up before an Oct. 1 tobacco-tax increase.  Not Strong Enough  “Today’s report confirms that capital spending has
remained relatively strong, but in the long run, this economic
recovery hasn’t been strong enough to enable more aggressive
increases in capital spending,” said  Hiroshi Miyazaki , chief
economist at Shinkin Asset Management Co. in Tokyo.  Government data so far for October have provided early
signs that the country’s economy will likely shrink this quarter.
Industrial output had the biggest drop since February 2009 and
the  jobless rate  unexpectedly climbed.  Retail sales  declined for
the first time this year, while export growth slowed.  Japan’s GDP is expected to contract at a 0.9 percent
annualized pace in the three months through December, according
to a survey of 42 economists by the Japanese government-
affiliated Economic Planning Association.  Prolonged Deflation  “A gradual recovery may continue for capital spending, but
companies probably can’t be positive about their sales outlook
because of prolonged deflation,” said  Yuichi Kodama , economist
at Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co., Japan’s third-biggest life
insurer. “In that sense, any recovery in capital spending won’t
be strong enough to become the driving force for the recovery.”  A rebound in earnings driven by corporate cost cuts and
demand in emerging nations has been tempered by the yen’s
advance, which is eroding the competitiveness of Japanese
exporters overseas.  Sales  rose 6.5 percent in the third quarter, slowing from
20.3 percent in the previous three months, while  profits  climbed
54.1 percent after a 83.4 percent increase in the second quarter,
today’s report showed.  Rohto Pharmaceutical Co. , a Japanese drugmaker, last month
cut its full-year profit forecast, citing the strong yen.  Nikon
Corp. , a maker of cameras, lenses and chip-making equipment,
lowered its full-year operating profit and revenue forecasts
because of the currency’s advance.  Stimulus Package  The Japanese parliament passed on Nov. 26 an extra budget
to fund Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s stimulus package aimed at
fighting deflation and combating the stronger yen. To foster
growth, the Bank of Japan cut its benchmark interest rate and
created an asset-purchase fund to buy government and corporate
debt and assets such as real estate investment trusts and
exchange-traded funds in October.  Kubota Corp. , Asia’s largest farm equipment maker, said
last month that first-half profit rose 33 percent on increased
sales in the U.S., Europe and Asia outside Japan.  Bridgestone Corp. , the world’s largest tiremaker, said in
October that it will invest 24 billion yen to increase
production capacity for large tires and steel cords for vehicles
used by construction and mining companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  