-- JPMorgan Begins Trial to Hold Onto $4 Billion of Disputed WaMu Securities
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-12-01T21:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/jpmorgan-begins-trial-to-hold-onto-4-billion-of-disputed-wamu-securities.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  began a court
fight for control of $4 billion in securities it claims to have
acquired with the purchase  Washington Mutual Inc. ’s bank for
$1.9 billion in 2008.  JPMorgan wants U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Mary F. Walrath  in
Wilmington, Delaware, to rule that investors got preferred stock
in WaMu in exchange for the debt-like, trust-preferred
securities when WaMu’s bank was seized by regulators. The Office
of Thrift Supervision ordered the exchange to ensure that WaMu’s
bank kept control of the securities, according to court records.  Walrath said she will rule on whether that exchange
actually took place when she decides to approve or reject
Seattle-based WaMu’s bankruptcy liquidation plan. Walrath will
start a hearing on the plan tomorrow.  The judge today questioned one of the arguments of hedge
funds claiming to own $1.1 billion of the securities. The funds
said they still own the debt-like investments because WaMu
didn’t create, register and deliver the stock they were supposed
to get in exchange for the trust-preferred securities.  “That makes no sense,” Walrath told attorney  Robert J.
Stark , who is representing hedge fund managers including Black
Horse Capital LP and Lonestar Partners LP.  JPMorgan argued that the exchange took place even though
investors still have physical possession of the paper securities
and never received stock certificates.  ‘Automatic’ Exchange  “The exchange was automatic as of the day the OTS said it
should happen,” JPMorgan attorney  Stacey Friedman  told Walrath,
referring to the Office of Thrift Supervision.  New York-based JPMorgan is the second biggest U.S. bank by
assets behind Bank of America.  Investors bought the securities from a WaMu affiliate
knowing that under certain circumstances the investments would
be exchanged for WaMu stock, Friedman said in court.  The hedge funds sued JPMorgan trying to win control of the
securities, which entitle the owner to payments backed by
$13 billion of mortgages.  The securities are part of a settlement between WaMu and
JPMorgan that is at the heart of the $7 billion repayment plan
that Walrath will consider approving later this week.  WaMu agreed to drop claims against JPMorgan and the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. over the seizure of its bank in return
for part of about $10 billion in cash and tax refunds.  WaMu filed for  bankruptcy  on Sept. 26, 2008, the day after
its banking unit was taken over by regulators and sold to
JPMorgan. Before it failed, Washington Mutual Bank had more than
2,200 branches and $188 billion in deposits.  Each Side’s Aim  The hedge funds asked Walrath to rule that the trust-
preferred securities were never exchanged for stock. JPMorgan is
asking her to rule that the exchange did take place. Whoever
wins that dispute would be considered the owner of the
securities, which entitle the owner to regular payments from the
$13 billion of mortgages.  The bankruptcy case is In Re Washington Mutual Inc., 08-
12229, and the securities lawsuit is Black Horse Capital LP v.
JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, 10-51387, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 