-- Kaiser-Era Law Leaves A-Tec Bondholders Out in Cold in Austrian Insolvency
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2010-12-01T08:24:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/kaiser-era-law-leaves-a-tec-bondholders-out-in-cold-in-austrian-insolvency.html
Bondholders owed 309 million euros
($403 million) by insolvent Austrian industrial company  A-Tec
Industries AG  are being penalized by an 1874 law that was
designed to protect them.  Austria’s  Bond Curator Law , enacted under Kaiser Franz
Joseph, rules that bondholders are represented exclusively by
court-appointed “curators,” or trustees, in insolvencies.
Created to offer investors a swift settlement of claims after
the 1873 stock market crash that spread from Vienna to financial
centers around the world, the law is now denying bondholders a
say in A-Tec’s restructuring and direct access to information
about the process.  A-Tec’s case shines a spotlight on the deficiencies of the
seldom used law in a country where insolvencies involving
corporate bonds are rare. Austria missed a chance to amend the
rules when it revamped its insolvency procedures this year,
according to  Susanne Kalss , a law professor at the  Vienna
University of Economics and Business .  “It is obvious that this law doesn’t really fit into
modern-day legal practice,” she said in a Nov. 25 interview.
The reform “would have been an opportunity to also update the
Curator Law, but it simply wasn’t on anyone’s radar because it’s
so rarely invoked.” Since the 1990s, there have been no more
than eight cases involving the law, she said.  ‘Frustrated’  A-Tec, whose holdings range from copper producers to
builders of power plants, filed for insolvency Oct. 20 after
efforts by the Vienna-based company to refinance a bond failed.
Its biggest unit, AE&E, followed on Nov. 24. The insolvency is
Austria’s third-biggest in post-war history.  “Our clients are clearly frustrated and disappointed,”
said  Louise Verrill  of law firm  Brown Rudnick LLP , which
represents a majority of holders of the  two convertible bonds  A-
Tec has sold. “If the current situation is any guide, the
treatment of bondholders in an insolvency in Austria places debt
investors at a significant disadvantage compared to other
international markets.”  Holders of A-Tec’s two convertible bonds, which mature in
May and October 2014, and of a bond that matured on Nov. 2 and
wasn’t redeemed because of the insolvency filing, are the
company’s biggest creditors, with 309 million euros in
liabilities between them, including accrued interest on coupon
payments, according to court filings by the bond trustees.  Owes  A-Tec also owes about 50 million euros to creditors
including suppliers and tax authorities, according to  Hans-Georg Kantner , a representative of credit protection association
Kreditschutzverband von 1870, who is also the spokesman of A-
Tec’s creditor committee.  As much as 300 million euros would come due if guarantees
to its subsidiaries were drawn, said Kantner, whose creditor
committee is advising the restructuring administrator.  Calls and an e-mail to Claudia Mueller-Stralz , a
spokeswoman for A-Tec, weren’t returned.  Similarly to other European countries, Austrian firms favor
bank loans to debt securities, which were equivalent to 19
percent of the country’s gross domestic product at the end of
June, compared with 28 percent in the U.S., according to  data 
from the Bank for International Settlements.  Under Austrian law, A-Tec’s bondholders would salvage at
least 30 percent of their claims through the method of debt
restructuring under self-administration chosen by the company.
Failure to work out a deal would result in straight insolvency
proceedings, with the aim of liquidating the company as swiftly
as possible for the maximum gain.  Maximum Return  The group of convertible bondholders represented by Brown
Rudnick have hired Lazard Ltd. to help them make an independent
assessment of what the company’s assets are worth and how best
to maximize the returns for debt investors.  They want the investment bank to have access to relevant
information on A-Tec, including inter-company loans and a
valuation of the company that Deloitte & Touche LLP auditors
will be presenting in December, Verrill said.  While the trustees for the bonds have agreed to allow
elected bondholder representatives to examine the Deloitte
valuation, there is no legal basis for this and it is merely a
gesture of good will, Verrill said. Bondholders also aren’t
involved in drawing up the restructuring plan, she said.  The  1874 law  was deemed “progressive” at the time of its
inception, said Kalss, who specializes in capital markets. “It
created a quick and efficient way to settle bondholder claims,”
she said. During the period of economic expansion known as the
Gruenderzeit, “infrastructure investments, in particular
railroad construction, were largely financed via bonds,” she
said.  Panic  The rise of the rail system fuelled the growth as
businesses flourished and their founders became rich overnight.
The expansion ended abruptly with the Vienna stock market crash,
spreading panic through global financial markets.  After the crash “the focus of the Curator Law clearly was
on what we today would call retail investors,” said Kalss. “It
certainly was a very paternalistic law, aiming at asserting
claims for the bondholder and not by the bondholder.”  A-Tec’s  management  has until Jan. 20 to win creditor
approval for its debt restructuring. If it fails, an insolvency
administrator takes over the process. A creditor meeting to vote
on the restructuring plan is scheduled for Dec. 29.  At the creditor meeting, the bondholders will be
represented by the trustees appointed by Vienna’s Commercial
Court:  Georg Freimueller ,  Ulla Reisch  and  Susi Pariasek .  The trustees have been liaising closely with elected
bondholder representatives and the cooperation is working very
smoothly, said Pariasek, who has been put in charge of the
October 2014 convertible bond.  In addition, the trustees will hold a meeting on Dec. 22 to
gauge bondholder sentiment on the restructuring plan. Any
decision they make will require approval from the curator court,
said Pariasek. The nomination of trustees makes sense as the
bonds are still being traded and the bondholder structure is
constantly changing, she said.  “The law may be old, but it is not obsolete,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Boris Groendahl  in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
 Zoe Schneeweiss  in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  