-- Aussie Falls Most in a Month Versus Kiwi as Data Points to Slowing Growth
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2010-12-02T05:35:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/n-z-dollar-trades-near-two-month-low-on-home-prices-aussie-pares-gains.html
Australia’s dollar slid against all
of its major peers after data showed retail sales unexpectedly
declined and imports slumped to the least since February.  The so-called Aussie slid the most in four weeks against
New Zealand’s kiwi dollar as today’s economic reports damped
demand for assets in the larger South Pacific nation. Traders
are betting the Reserve Bank of Australia will raise its  target
rate  by 19 basis points over the next 12 months, down from 43
basis points two weeks ago, according to a Credit Suisse Group
AG index based on swaps prices.  There was “very weak consumer spending over the past few
months in Australia, so that’s certainly weighing on the
Aussie,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency strategist at
Westpac Banking Corp. in Singapore. The kiwi “may do a little
bit better today on the back of some Aussie-kiwi selling.”  Australia’s dollar fell 0.4 percent to 96.41 U.S.
cents as of 4:32 p.m. in Sydney from the close in New York. It
reached 95.37 cents yesterday, the lowest since Sept. 24, before
rallying 1 percent, the sharpest gain since Nov. 18.  New Zealand’s dollar climbed 0.7 percent against the
Aussie, set for the largest daily gain since Nov. 4. The kiwi
advanced 0.3 percent to 75.10 U.S. cents.  Retail sales in Australia fell 1.1 percent in October, the
Bureau of Statistics said today. That compared with the 0.4
percent increase estimated by economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. Total exports rose 1 percent in October while imports
fell 3 percent.  Data yesterday showed Australia’s economy expanded 0.2
percent in the third quarter from the earlier period, the worst
performance since a contraction at the end of 2008.  Summer Drought  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  of shares climbed 1.4 percent
today after the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index surged the most in
three months. The  Reuters/Jeffries CRB Index  of 19 raw materials
jumped 2.5 percent yesterday.  Gains in New Zealand’s currency were limited after
Agriculture Minister David Carter said the nation’s largest
dairy-farming region may face a summer drought for a second
year, potentially affecting economic growth. The risk of a
significant drought in the North Island provinces of Waikato and
Northland was “very high” owing to abnormally dry
conditions, he said today in an interview from Christchurch.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 