-- Nakheel, National Commercial Plan Sukuk Sales After Slump: Islamic Finance
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2010-12-01T11:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/nakheel-national-commerical-plan-sukuk-sales-after-slump-islamic-finance.html
National Commercial Bank, Saudi
Arabia’s largest lender and Dubai developer Nakheel PJSC are
among five borrowers in the Persian Gulf that may offer Islamic
bonds next year after sales dropped 40 percent in 2010.  Companies in the region announced this quarter plans to
sell as much as $3 billion of sukuk, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Five companies in the Gulf raised $4 billion
through Islamic bonds this year, down from the $6.7 billion
raised in 2009 by seven issuers, the data show.  “There is a good opportunity to take advantage of the
liquidity level among Islamic investors, which has remained high
due to the shortage of sukuk sales this year,”  Mohammed Dawood ,
Dubai-based director of debt capital markets at HSBC Holdings
Plc, the second-biggest underwriter of sukuk this year, said in
a telephone interview Nov. 28. “We have a number of mandates
for the first half of next year for this region and beyond.”  Persian Gulf companies plan to tap the Islamic debt market
after state-owned Dubai World’s agreement with creditors to
alter terms on $24.9 billion of debt boosted confidence. Ernst &
Young LLP estimates assets held by Shariah-compliant funds are
at around $52.3 billion. Global sales of sukuk slumped 31
percent this year as concern about defaults prompted investors
to demand higher returns from property-related issuers. Islamic
debt, which pays asset returns to comply with the religion’s ban
on interest, is often linked to real estate.  Islamic bonds from Gulf Cooperation Council nations
returned 11.5 percent this year, according to the HSBC/ NASDAQ
Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index . The GCC comprises Saudi Arabia,
Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Oman and Bahrain. Bonds
in developing markets returned 12.8 percent, JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s  EMBI Global Diversified Index  shows.  Dubai, Etisalat  Dubai’s government hired CIMB Investment Bank Bhd., a Kuala
Lumpur-based unit of  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd ., the world’s top
sukuk arranger this year, to manage a sale of between $1 billion
and $1.5 billion of Islamic securities in Malaysia, a person
with knowledge of the plan said Nov. 24.  Emirates
Telecommunications Corp. , the U.A.E.’s largest telephone
company, will borrow as much as $8 billion by issuing Islamic
and non-Islamic debt, the company said Nov. 11.  Managers of Islamic endowments with $105 billion in assets
are seeking to diversify from bank deposits, providing Shariah-
compliant funds with the chance to capture new business, Ashar
Nazim, Manama-based executive director and head of Islamic
financial services for Ernst & Young, Bahrain, said Nov. 9.
These “largely untapped” endowments have as much as $40
billion of cash parked at commercial banks, he said.  ‘Crowded’ Market  Issuers from emerging markets, including China Investment
Corp. and Petroleos Mexicanos, raised $665 billion from bond
offerings this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That compares with $633 billion sold in all of 2009.  “If the conventional market becomes crowded with issuers,
the marginal Islamic investor base may become more significant
to companies that aren’t Shariah-compliant but can still issue
sukuk,”  Khalid Howladar , a Dubai-based senior credit officer at
Moody’s Investors Service, said in an e-mailed response to
questions on Nov. 28 from London.  Investors pulled money out of emerging-market bond funds in
the week ended Nov. 24, snapping a 25-week run of net inflows,
according to data from Boston-based EPFR Global released Nov.
29. Ireland joined Greece in the past week in accepting European
Union-led bailouts and North Korea shot artillery shells at a
South Korean island, killing four people and prompting
retaliatory fire.  No ‘Huge Boom’  “I don’t feel like we’re going to see a huge boom of sukuk
issuance,” next year,  Lilian Le Falher , the Manama-based head
of treasury, financial institution syndication and asset
management at Kuwait Finance House Bahrain BSC said in an
interview yesterday. “There are a lot of people that are keen
and ready to go but there’s still a lot of nervousness in the
market and you need to have the right deal.”  The average yield on sukuk sold by Gulf Cooperation Council
issuers jumped 10 basis points yesterday to 5.95 percent,
climbing for an eighth day,  according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai
GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index.  Yields advanced four basis points
last month, the first increase since May.  The yield on Dubai’s 6.396 percent sukuk due November 2014
rose eight basis points to 6.89 percent today, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The difference in yield between Dubai’s notes
and Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due June 2015 rose
eight basis points to 406.  Seeking Mandates  National Commercial Bank, Saudi Arabia’s biggest lenders,
plans to sell its first Islamic bond in the second quarter,
Executive Vice President Abdulrazzak Elkhraijy said in an
interview in Manama, Bahrain, on Nov. 22. Nakheel, the developer
of palm-shaped islands off Dubai’s coast, may issue a sukuk to
trade creditors in the first quarter,  Faisal Mikou , executive
vice president at the Investment Corp. of Dubai, said in Dubai
on Nov. 28.  QInvest LLC, a Qatari Islamic investment bank, is in
discussions with a borrower in the Gulf nation to arrange the
sale of an Islamic bond in the first half of next year, Chief
Executive Officer  Shahzad Shahbaz  said Nov. 28. Paris-based
Credit Agricole SA is working on two or three sukuk from GCC
countries,  Simon Eedle , global head of Islamic banking at the
bank, said Nov. 23.  Irish Crisis  Noor Islamic Bank , a lender controlled by Dubai’s
government, is working on two sukuk sales for the first quarter
and may underwrite four to five Islamic debt offerings in 2011,
Chief Executive Officer  Hussain Al Qemzi  said on Nov. 23 in an
interview in Manama, Bahrain.  “As soon as this dust from the Irish crisis settles, the
market will be very vibrant and you will see more GCC companies
coming to the market,”  Naeem Ishaque , senior manager of the
international division at Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank PJSC, the
U.A.E.’s second-biggest bank complying with Shariah-banking
rules, said in a telephone interview from Abu Dhabi Nov. 29.
“Those who didn’t tap the market in the first go will
definitely come back.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dana El Baltaji  in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net 
 Haris Anwar  in Dubai on 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  