-- Rothschild Plays Strongest Suit With Coal Mining Deal
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   S i m o n   C a s e y
-- 2010-12-01T17:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/nat-rothschild-plays-his-strongest-suit-with-3-billion-commodities-deal.html
One of the most successful trades at
Atticus Capital LP, where  Nathaniel Rothschild  was co-chairman,
was an investment in U.S. mining company Phelps Dodge Corp. The
future 5th Baron Rothschild says he now plans to build one of
the world’s largest coal producers.  A member of the Rothschild lineage that helped bankroll
Britain’s war against Napoleonic  France , he’s leading a $3
billion takeover that will create the biggest exporter of coal
to  China .  Rothschild is leveraging his name, more than a decade of
hedge-fund experience and a network that reads like a Who’s Who
of commodities. He’s friends with Ivan Glasenberg, head of the
biggest commodity trader Glencore International AG; advises
Russian aluminum billionaire Oleg Deripaska; and is on the board
of Peter Munk’s  Barrick Gold Corp ., the largest gold miner.  “There’s no global coal company today,” Rothschild, 39,
says in an interview. “There’s not a Barrick Gold in coal.
That’s where the opportunity is.”  Rothschild -- who likes to be called Nat -- had been
searching for a natural-resources acquisition since  Vallar Plc ,
the  investment company  he founded, raised 707 million pounds
($1.1 billion) in an initial public offering in London in July.
The transaction announced Nov. 16 will combine Vallar, 25
percent of Indonesian coal producer PT Bumi Resources and 75
percent of PT Berau Coal Energy.  “My plate is pretty full,” says Rothschild. “The only
slight kind of stress is on my travel schedule and my social
life, which is non-existent.”  Atticus Career  Rothschild has “the nerve to call up anyone and what’s
interesting is he’s taken seriously,” says Michael Rawlinson, a
banker who met Rothschild in  New York  in the 1990s and is now
head of resources at Liberum Capital Ltd. in London. “Ivan
Glasenberg or Oleg Deripaska, they’ve come from nothing,” he
says, “they are not impressed by posh blokes.”  Before setting up Vallar, Rothschild worked at hedge-fund
firm Atticus Capital LP in New York, which generated almost $7
billion for investors. Most of the Atticus funds were wound up
last year after founder Timothy Barakett decided to spend more
time with his family.  Rothschild says his work at Atticus “immersed” him in
commodities, which became his “strongest suit.” He also got to
know some of the industry’s most influential people.  “He has an unparalleled range of contacts,” says Munk,
Barrick’s founder and chairman. “Certainly being a Rothschild
does help, but opening a door, if you’re an idiot, it’s a single
event. He has shown a talent.”  Eton, Oxford  Rothschild, whose main residence is in Klosters,  Switzerland , is the only son of U.K. financier Lord Jacob Rothschild, the 4th Baron Rothschild, a former banker and modern
art collector.  He attended Eton, the English private school that counts 19
British prime ministers as former pupils, and is dating Princess
Florence von Preussen, the great-great-granddaughter of the last
German Emperor Kaiser Wilhelm II, according to the U.K.’s  Daily
Mail .  After studying history at Oxford University, Rothschild
joined  Lazard Ltd ., having been introduced to the world of
finance during trips with his father to New York to meet the
business elite.  “I was exposed at a very, very early age to a lot of these
big Wall Street tycoons,” he says.  Dinner With Deripaska  On one visit, father and son met Eric Gleacher, whose
investment bank Gleacher & Co. was two floors below the
Rothschild family office on Madison Avenue. Gleacher offered
Rothschild a job as an analyst, and it was there that he met
Harvard Business School graduate Barakett. Rothschild joined him
the following year as Atticus’s second employee.  The hedge fund, named after Atticus Finch in Harper Lee’s
novel To Kill a Mockingbird, was an activist shareholder,
pressing copper producer Phelps Dodge to return cash to
shareholders and find a buyer.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
Inc .’s 2007 acquisition of Phelps returned a $520 million gain,
Rothschild says.  While at Atticus, Rothschild established his relationship
with Deripaska. They first met in Paris in 2002 at a meeting
where “the average age was considerably older than our average
ages,” he says. “We ended up going out and having dinner.”  Rothschild chairs the board of  EN+ Group Ltd. , the holding
company through which Deripaska controls assets including
Moscow-based United Co. Rusal, the largest aluminum maker.    Los Angeles  Meeting  Since the Vallar IPO, he says he’s looked at potential
deals with OAO Polyus Gold,  Russia ’s largest producer of the
precious metal, and Moscow-based iron-ore miner OAO
Metalloinvest.  It was in Los Angeles in October that he met for the first
time with Nirwan Bakrie, one of the Bakrie family, which
controls Bumi, Indonesia’s largest coal producer. The three-way
merger will create a “resources champion” in  Indonesia ,
according to Vallar. The country is the world’s biggest exporter
of power-station coal.  “Indonesia is a sleeping giant,” Rothschild says. “One
scratches one’s head to think why isn’t there a mining champion
out there already and hopefully we are in the process of
showcasing one in the years ahead.”  The new company, Bumi Plc, will trade in  London  using
Vallar’s listing there, and plans to almost double coal
production from mines in Indonesia to 140 million metric tons a
year by 2013.  “To be able to do an IPO without having any assets, he has
to be somebody,” Indra Bakrie, who will be Bumi Plc’s chairman,
says of Rothschild. “I wish I could do that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:  Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey in New York at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 