-- National Bank of Canada's Increased Dividend May Placate Investor Concerns
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-12-01T21:23:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/national-bank-of-canada-s-payout-resumption-may-appease-dividend-investors.html
National Bank of Canada ’s first
quarterly dividend increase in about three years may placate
investors looking for dividend growth at other Canadian lenders,
analysts said. The stock had its biggest gain in three months.  The Montreal-based bank lifted its dividend by 4 cents, or
6.5 percent, to 66 cents a share, according to a statement
yesterday after markets closed. It was the first increase in two
years for any of Canada’s six main banks.  “With ‘dividend fever’ seemingly once again taking hold of
the (National) quote in recent days, the market should be
placated” by the increase, said  Sumit Malhotra , an analyst at
Macquarie Capital Markets in Toronto.  The dividend was raised after fourth-quarter profit topped
analysts’ estimates. Net income for the period ended Oct. 31
climbed to C$287 million ($280 million), or C$1.66 a share, from
C$241 million, or C$1.39, a year earlier. National, the first
lender to report fourth-quarter results, was forecast to earn
C$1.57 a share, based on a Bloomberg survey of eight analysts.  National Bank’s increase surpassed the  Bloomberg Dividend
Forecast  of 64 cents a share. The forecast is based on company
guidance, analysts’ estimates and other factors. Other Canadian
lenders may raise their payouts this quarter or next year, after
the country’s financial-services regulator in September told
banks they no longer need “increased conservatism” in capital
management.  Leading Edge  “We need one or two quarters of clarity with regards to
the final stages of” new capital rules by the Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision, National Bank Chief Financial Officer
 Patricia Curadeau-Grou  said today in a telephone interview. “We
should be in a better position then to give you some indication
in regards to further dividend increases.”  National Bank rose C$1.98, or 2.9 percent, to C$69.82 at 4
p.m. in trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange, the biggest gain
since Aug. 27. Other bank shares also rose.  Before one-time items, National Bank earned C$1.63 a share,
topping the C$1.55-a-share average  estimate  of 12 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg news. Revenue was little changed at almost
C$1.1 billion.  The results include a C$15 million charge for severance pay
in the investment-banking unit, where profit fell 29 percent to
C$104 million. National Bank is “repositioning” its investment
bank to target equity sales in industries such as energy and
mining. The move included cutting about 35 jobs.  Cost Control  “There’s a renewed focus for all the markets where we are
participating,” Curadeau-Grou said. “The intent here was to be
prudent and impose some kind of a cost control in terms of our
strategic management.”  The changes at National Bank Financial aren’t related to
any pending acquisition,  Ricardo Pascoe , executive vice
president of the financial markets unit, told investors on a
conference call today.  Personal and commercial banking profit rose 34 percent to
C$145 million as loans rose, while wealth-management earnings
climbed 19 percent to C$31 million. For the year, National Bank
earned a record profit of C$1.03 billion, up 21 percent from
C$854 million in fiscal 2009.  Other Banks  “Based on this result, the market will raise its
expectations for all banks, (Royal Bank of Canada) in
particular,” Cormark Securities analyst  Darko Mihelic  said
today in a note to investors.  Toronto-Dominion Bank and Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce are scheduled to report results tomorrow, followed by
Royal Bank of Canada and Bank of Nova Scotia on Dec. 3. Bank of
Montreal and Canadian Western Bank release results Dec. 7 and
Laurentian Bank reports Dec. 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sean B. Pasternak  in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 