-- AT&T, Comcast Face New Web Rules as Agency Sets Vote
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-12-01T22:18:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/net-neutrality-vote-by-u-s-fcc-set-for-december-after-year-of-conflict.html
A U.S. regulator said he’d press to
pass Internet-service rules for companies led by  AT&T Inc.  and
 Comcast Corp. , setting up a clash with Republican lawmakers who
told him Americans recently voted against expansive government.  Federal Communications Commission Chairman  Julius Genachowski  today asked the agency to vote Dec. 21 to bar
Internet-service companies from blocking or slowing Web users’
access to lawful content and applications. The net-neutrality
rules “ensure that the Internet remains a powerful platform for
innovation and job creation,” Genachowski said in a speech in
Washington.  Genachowski, a Democrat appointed by President  Barack Obama , proposed net-neutrality rules in September 2009, and
debate has expanded to involve Congress, courts and companies.
Proponents including technology companies said regulations are
needed to keep the Internet free of restrictions, while
opponents such as telephone and cable companies said rules
aren’t needed and may stifle investment.  “If last month’s election told us anything, it’s that
Americans are exasperated by the explosive growth of
government,” Representative  Eric Cantor  of Virginia, the
House’s No. 2 Republican, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Imposing net-neutrality requirements would significantly harm
a key industry by shackling it with unnecessary and anti-
competitive regulations.”  ‘Clearest Winners’  Senator  Kay Bailey Hutchison  of Texas, the top Republican
on the Commerce Committee, which oversees telecommunications
policy, said she would “explore all options” to keep the FCC
from instituting the regulations. Republican Representative
 Marsha Blackburn  of Tennessee in an interview on Bloomberg
Television said the FCC had a “hysterical approach” and aims
to put a “chokehold” on the Internet.  Time Warner Cable Inc. ,  Cablevision Systems Corp.  and
telephone companies are among the “clearest winners” under
Genachowski’s proposal because it averts the prospect of harsher
regulation and clears a path for flexible pricing for high-speed
Internet service, Paul Gallant, a Washington-based analyst with
MF Global, said in an interview.  “Those are very welcome developments for Comcast, Time
Warner Cable and Cablevision,” he said.  The FCC recognizes “the importance of business
innovation” including usage-based pricing, Genachowski said in
his speech.  Good for Stocks  Share prices “will respond well” if cable operators adopt
usage-based pricing, charging more to customers who gulp data,
for instance by downloading videos, and less to attract lighter
Web users,  Craig Moffett , a New York-based analyst with Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. Inc., said in a note to investors today.  The regulations would give Internet-service providers
flexibility to deal with congestion or harmful traffic,
Genachowski said. Wireless networks would be subject to
different regulations that include a no-blocking rule, and the
FCC would “be prepared to step in” to deal with anti-
competitive behavior, he said.  AT&T, the largest U.S. telephone company, and  Verizon
Communications Inc.  said the issue should be left to Congress.  The FCC should make “any rules it adopts interim, rather
than permanent,” Verizon Executive Vice President  Tom Tauke 
said in an e-mailed statement.  “We are pleased that the FCC appears to be embracing a
compromise solution,”  Jim Cicconi , AT&T senior executive vice
president, said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Careful, Balanced Approach’  Comcast Executive Vice President David Cohen said in an e-
mailed statement, “The careful and balanced approach laid out
by the chairman today has our support.”  Charlie Ergen , chief executive officer of  Dish Network
Corp. , which provides on-demand movies to subscribers using
Internet lines, in a statement called Genachowski’s proposal “a
solid framework for protecting the open Internet.”  Verizon rose 34 cents to $32.35 at 4:01 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. AT&T advanced 49 cents to
$28.28. Comcast rose 80 cents, or 4 percent, to $20.83 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading.  Genachowski said his rules build upon a proposal made in
September by Representative  Henry Waxman , a California Democrat,
who suggested less-stringent rules for the mobile Web than for
service delivered over wires.  Net neutrality encompasses the idea that Internet-service
providers can’t interfere with content they deliver to
subscribers, or favor their offerings. Technology companies
backing regulations include search company  Google Inc. ,
Internet-retailer  Amazon.com  and Dish.  Managing Traffic Growth  Cable and phone companies that provide Web service say
rules may make it difficult to manage the growing traffic on
their networks and would limit investment in Internet capacity.
AT&T and Verizon, the majority owner of the largest U.S. mobile
provider, Verizon Wireless, have told the FCC that rules aren’t
needed for wireless networks.  Google and Verizon, the second-largest U.S. phone company,
struck a compromise in August that didn’t call for rules on
wireless Internet service. The proposal wasn’t adopted by
officials.  Obama, as a candidate, made net neutrality a campaign issue
and has called himself a “big believer” in the approach.  Democratic lawmakers released a letter yesterday urging
Genachowski to act on Web regulations this year to ensure “that
the Internet remains an open network.” The letter was signed by
Senators  John Kerry  of Massachusetts,  Byron Dorgan  of North
Dakota and  Ron Wyden  of Oregon.  Three Votes Needed  The regulations need three votes to pass at the FCC, where
two Democrats join Genachowski to form the agency’s majority.  “I strongly oppose this ill-advised maneuver,” Robert
McDowell, one of two Republican commissioners, said in an e-
mailed statement. “Such rules would upend three decades of
bipartisan and international consensus that the Internet is best
able to thrive in the absence of regulation.”  Commissioner  Meredith Attwell Baker , a Republican, said the
agency doesn’t have authority to act and called Genachowski’s
proposal “a mistake.”  Genachowski said he had abandoned his proposal to put
Internet service under the regulatory regime used for telephone
service -- a prospect opposed by companies that said such a move
might lead to rate regulation.  Not applying rules for telephone companies would benefit
AT&T, Comcast, Verizon, Time Warner Cable and Cablevision,
Gallant said in a Nov. 19 note to clients.  Telephone regulation offered a way to reclaim authority
undermined by a U.S. court, Genachowski said in May. Judges
ruled in April the FCC lacked authority to punish Comcast for
interfering with subscribers’ Web traffic.  “I am satisfied that we have a sound legal basis” for
proceeding without using telephone rules, Genachowski said
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  