-- New Zealand Pauses to Remember 29 Miners Killed in Pike River Explosion
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2010-12-02T03:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/new-zealand-pauses-to-remember-29-miners-killed-in-pike-river-explosion.html
New Zealand paused for a two-minute
silence today to remember the 29 Pike River miners presumed
killed by explosions at a West Coast mine last month.  Prime Minister  John Key  asked the country to observe a
moment of silence at 2 p.m. local time which marked the start of
a remembrance service near Greymouth, the South Island town
about 50 kilometers (30 miles) south of Pike River. The service
was held at the Omoto Racecourse which opened in 1867, almost 20
years after coal was first discovered in the area.  Pike River Coal Ltd. , the mine’s owner, is yet to determine
what caused an explosion on Nov. 19 that cut off communication
with the workers underground. Police declared them to be dead
five days later after a second explosion ended all hopes of a
rescue. Rescuers are now trying to douse a coal fire caused by a
fourth blast that’s prevented recovery of the miners’ bodies.
They ranged in age from 17 to 62.  “Your men were our men,” Key said at the service. “And
even if many of us know them only as names, and faces and
stories, their deaths touched our lives.”  Messages of support from around the world were read by
Anand Satyanand, New Zealand’s Governor-General. They included
notes from Britain’s Queen Elizabeth II and Prince William and
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton .  The service was attended by government officials from New
Zealand and outside the country, including  Martin Ferguson ,
Australia’s minister of resources and energy, and British High
Commissioner Victoria Treadell, according to a statement.  Mine Investigation  Key said on Nov. 29 that a Royal Commission will probe the
causes of the Pike River blasts. A separate enquiry will conduct
a safety audit of New Zealand’s underground coal mines. While
the mines will stay open during the audit, Pike River is likely
to stay closed for some time, he said.  “What happened at Pike River has become a fresh, new, raw
part of the story of New Zealand,” Key said at the service.  Rescuers deployed a jet engine at around 10 p.m. yesterday
in an attempt to extinguish the Pike River fire, according to a
police statement today. The operation will continue until air
sampling indicates the mine is inert, the statement said.  “We have a long way to go before the environment will be
safe enough to send a recovery team into the mine,”
Superintendent Gary Knowles said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  