-- New York, Northeast Air Traffic Delayed by Weather
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2010-12-01T20:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/new-york-northeast-air-traffic-delayed-as-wind-rain-sweep-through-region.html
Air traffic in New York and the
Northeast is being delayed five hours or more as high winds and
rain sweep through the area.  Some arriving flights at LaGuardia Airport were as much as
5 hours and 22 minutes late because of winds, according to the
Federal Aviation Administration website. Newark Liberty
International Airport in New Jersey is experiencing delays of 4
hours and 31 minutes for some inbound traffic.  As of 2:30 p.m., 122 flights were canceled along the U.S.
East Coast. LaGuardia had the most with 37, followed by Newark
with 22, according to Flight Stats Analytics, a Portland,
Oregon-based company that tracks aviation data.  The traffic delays came as a severe thunderstorm warning
was issued for eastern New York, including Manhattan and Long
Island, much of New Jersey and eastern Pennsylvania, according
to the weather service. The storms are capable of producing
winds as intense as 60 mph (97 kph).  Wind advisories extend as far north as the Canadian border
and into Connecticut and Massachusetts. Winds of 35 mph with
gusts of 50 mph can be expected, according to the advisory.  “If you are traveling through the advisory area keep a
firm grip on the wheel, especially for those driving high-
profile vehicles,” the weather service said. “Persons in the
advisory area should secure all loose objects.”  Train Delays  Travel was further disrupted as Amtrak and New Jersey
Transit suspended service into and out of New York’s Penn
Station because of problems with overhead wires in New Jersey
and in the Bronx, according to a statement. Traffic resumed by
mid-afternoon.  Earlier today, Amtrak restored service to its Keystone
Route in Pennsylvania after the weather damaged overhead wires
there, according to a railroad statement.  Heavy rain is forecast to fall in New York into tonight.
About 0.6 inch was reported in Central Park by late morning as a
wave of heavy rain was moving in from the west, said Matt
Scalora of the weather service office in Upton.  Flood advisories were posted for the lower Hudson Valley
and northeastern New Jersey, where the wind was blamed for
downed trees and an overturned shipping container in Elizabeth,
he said.  John F. Kennedy International Airport reported delays of
nearly three hours and 56 minutes for some flights and
Philadelphia International Airport had waits of almost 90
minutes for some arriving flights, according to the FAA.  New Jersey’s Teterboro Airport was reporting delays of
about two hours, while some flights into Boston’s Logan
International Airport were held up for an hour, the FAA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  at 
 Bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  