-- New Jersey Turnpike Outlook Revised to Negative on Toll Transfer Concerns
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-12-01T23:16:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/new-jersey-turnpike-may-reallocate-1-25-billion-from-canceled-rail-tunnel.html
The  New Jersey Turnpike Authority ’s
credit outlook was lowered to negative from stable by Moody’s
Investors Service, which noted the “siphoning” of toll money
for projects outside the system.  The revision affects $8.2 billion in debt. Moody’s affirmed
the authority’s A3 rating, four levels above non-investment
grade. The firm released the report today in connection with the
agency’s $1.5 billion sale of Build America Bonds scheduled for
Dec. 6.  The authority, which oversees the New Jersey Turnpike and
the Garden State Parkway, provides about $26 million a year to
support general transportation expenses. It was scheduled to pay
$1.25 billion toward the Hudson River commuter-rail tunnel that
Governor  Chris Christie  canceled Oct. 27. Transfers from the
toll roads are likely to increase amid state budgetary
pressures, Moody’s said.  “The authority’s level of autonomy and the siphoning of
enterprise revenues for non-turnpike system purposes are areas
of increasing concern,”  Maria Matesanz  and Richard E. Donner,
both Moody’s analysts, said in the report.  The Turnpike retained it’s A+ rating, fifth highest, and
stable outlook from Standard & Poor’s, the company said today.
S&P cited the turnpike’s low tolls and stable operations.  Tom Feeney, a spokesman for the authority, said the agency
disagreed with the Moody’s revision.  “Moody’s has a generally negative perspective on the
economy of New Jersey and the region, and their rating reflects
that,” Feeney said by e-mail.  Hudson Tunnel  The $1.25 billion scheduled to go to the Access to the
Region’s Core, or ARC, rail tunnel will be used instead for
roads and other projects outside the system, the authority
reported in bond documents related to the Dec. 6 deal.  The authority expects to spend at least $295 million a year
on “non-turnpike system purposes” from 2012 through 2017,
including the $195 million it had promised to spend annually on
the tunnel, the Build America Bond documents say.  The turnpike generates about $960 million a year in tolls,
according to the documents. That’s scheduled to rise to $1.5
billion after a 50 percent toll increase on Jan. 1, 2012.  Alternative Funding  Christie, a Republican who became governor in January, is
looking for ways to pay for highways and mass transit without
support from the Transportation Trust Fund Authority, which has
reached its borrowing capacity. Critics including Democratic
Assemblyman  John Wisniewski , chairman of the Assembly
Transportation Committee, say Christie killed the project to
free money for a trust-fund replacement.  “The state’s budgetary pressures, structural deficit and
transportation funding shortfalls make it likely the authority
will continue to be tapped to pay for transportation projects
and non-turnpike system maintenance,” the Moody’s analysts said
in the report.  The turnpike’s estimate of 6 percent annual growth in toll
revenue through 2020 may be “optimistic given the current
sluggish economic recovery in the state,” Donner and Matesanz
said. They said the turnpike could be downgraded if revenue
falls short of projections and debt-service coverage declines.  The acknowledgment of plans to divert the tunnel spending
to other projects off the turnpike is “very significant,”
 Martin Robins , founding director of the  Alan M. Voorhees
Transportation Center  at Rutgers University, said in an
interview yesterday.  Past Precedents  “Historically, only turnpike projects have been funded
with turnpike tolls,” said Robins, who was the original New
Jersey Transit representative on the tunnel project. The tunnel
“was one of a few exceptions to the rule -- by far the largest
exception.”  The turnpike authority will get the $1.25 billion meant for
the tunnel from $4.4 billion of bonds to be sold in various
amounts from 2012 to 2018, the official statement for next
week’s Build America Bond sale says.  Most of the money will be for capital projects on the two
highways the authority runs: the 122-mile (203-kilometer)
turnpike and 173-mile parkway, the statement says. The tunnel
money will go elsewhere.  “The state continues to deliberate and evaluate options
with respect to the future funding of the state’s transportation
needs,” the offering statement says. “There can be no
assurance the authority will not be requested to make payments
in connection with any such purposes.”  Cancellation Complications  Christie killed the $8.7 billion tunnel on Oct. 27, saying
New Jersey taxpayers might be responsible for cost overruns he
estimated could reach $5 billion.  New Jersey  gave up $3 billion
in federal grants when the project was killed. It’s also been
billed $271 million to reimburse the U.S. Transportation
Department for federal money spent.  The Transportation Trust Fund Authority issues $1.6 billion
of debt a year. After July, all the $895 million in annual gas
taxes and other revenue it gets for the next 31 years will be
needed for payments on $12 billion of outstanding debt, bond
documents show.  Christie is awaiting a report before the end of the year
from state Transportation Commissioner  James Simpson  on
strategies for replacing the fund’s support.  The governor has always suggested the tunnel money would be
used for other transportation work if the rail project was
canceled, his spokesman,  Michael Drewniak , said yesterday.  “It’s obviously going to be put to use someplace,” he
said.  The Assembly’s Wisniewski said he’ll ask lawmakers to
review whether the turnpike is authorized to use toll money for
projects unrelated to the highways it manages.  “In government,” he said, “you can’t do a bait and
switch.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  