-- Nigeria to Charge Dick Cheney in Pipeline Bribery Case
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2010-12-01T22:03:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/nigeria-to-file-charges-against-former-u-s-vice-president-over-bribery.html
Nigeria will file charges against
former U.S. Vice President  Dick Cheney  and officials from five
foreign companies including  Halliburton Co.  over a $180 million
bribery scandal, a prosecutor at the anti-graft agency said.  Indictments will be lodged in a Nigerian court “in the
next three days,” Godwin Obla, prosecuting counsel at the
 Economic and Financial Crimes Commission , said in an interview
today at his office in Abuja, the capital. An arrest warrant for
Cheney “will be issued and transmitted through Interpol,” the
world’s biggest international police organization, he said.  Peter Long, Cheney’s spokesman, said he couldn’t
immediately comment when contacted today and said he would
respond later to an e-mailed request for comment.  Obla said charges will be filed against current and former
chief executive officers of Halliburton, including Cheney, who
was CEO from 1995 to 2000, and its former unit  KBR Inc. , based
in Houston, Texas;  Technip SA , Europe’s second-largest oilfield-
services provider;  Eni SpA , Italy’s biggest oil company; and
Saipem Construction Co., a unit of Eni. Obla didn’t identify the
former officials whom he said held office when the alleged
bribes were paid.  Last week,  Nigeria  arrested at least 23 officials from
companies including Halliburton, Saipem, Technip and a former
subsidiary of  Panalpina Welttransport Holding AG  in connection
with alleged illegal payments to Nigerian officials. Those
detained were all freed on bail on Nov. 29.  Liquefied Natural Gas  Authorities in the West African nation are probing
Halliburton, Saipem and Technip for the alleged payment of $180
million in bribes to win a $6 billion liquefied natural-gas
contract. Panalpina is being investigated for illegal payments
it allegedly made to Nigerian customs officials on behalf of
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc .  “Eni confirms its availability to cooperate with the local
authorities in the ongoing investigations, as it has done in the
past with Italian and U.S. authorities,” Gianni Di Giovanni,
spokesman for the company, said in an e-mailed statement today.  Christophe Bélorgeot, who is listed on Technip’s website as
a spokesman for the company, didn’t answer his phone when called
today. No one answered the phone at Halliburton’s Nigerian
office when called for comment. A person who answered a call to
Halliburton’s Houston office said no one was available to
comment. Teresa Wong, Halliburton’s spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Heather Browne , a spokeswoman for KBR, said by e-mail the company has no
comment.  Bush’s Running Mate  Cheney, 69, left Halliburton in 2000 to become U.S.
President  George W. Bush ’s running mate and then vice president.
He formed the company’s KBR Inc. unit after acquiring Dresser
Industries Inc. in 1998.  The plans to file charges against Cheney were reported
earlier today in the Lagos-based Guardian newspaper.  Femi Babafemi , a spokesman for the commission, confirmed the plans to
file charges when contacted by phone today in Abuja. He wouldn’t
comment any further.  Nigeria charged a former aide of President  Olusegun Obasanjo  with six counts of money-laundering on Oct. 13 in
connection with the alleged payment of bribes.  KBR and Halliburton agreed to pay $579 million in February
2009 for bribery payments in Nigeria that stretched from 1994 to
2004.  ‘All Potential Claims’  Technip took a charge of 245 million euros ($342 million)
related to its stake in TSJK and discussed “resolution of all
potential claims” with the U.S. Justice Department and the
Securities and Exchange Commission, the Paris-based company said
on Feb. 12. TSJK was a group of international companies
comprising Technip, Snamprogetti SpA, a unit of Eni, KBR and  JGC
Corp.  of Japan.  Panalpina, Royal Dutch Shell and five oil-services
companies agreed to pay $236.5 million to resolve a U.S. probe
of overseas bribery, the  Justice Department  said on Nov. 4. The
bribes were paid to expedite the import of goods and equipment,
avoid customs duties on imported goods, extend drilling
contracts and lower tax assessments, according to the Securities
and Exchange Commission.  Nigeria is Africa’s biggest crude producer and the fifth-
biggest source of U.S. oil imports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisha Bala-Gbogbo  in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at   dmbachu@bloomberg.net . 