-- Nigeria's Amcon to Sell $16.6 Billion of Bonds to Fund Toxic Debt Purchase
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2010-12-01T15:42:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/nigeria-s-amcon-to-sell-16-6-billion-of-bonds-to-fund-toxic-debt-purchase.html
The state-owned Asset Management
Corp. of Nigeria, or Amcon, said it plans to sell 2.5 trillion
naira ($16.6 billion) of three-year, zero-coupon bonds to
finance the purchase of toxic debts from  banks .  The first tranche of the bonds will be sold by Dec. 31, the
company’s managing director, Mustafa Chike-Obi, said in an
interview in the commercial capital, Lagos, today. Most of the
bonds will be sold by the end of March next year, he said.  The debt purchases will help the banking system, which
almost collapsed in 2008 after extending billions of dollars in
loans to investors in the stock market, to resume lending to
companies and revive economic growth. The central bank fired the
chief executive officers of eight lenders last year and bailed
out the industry with $4.1 billion.  The market will determine the value of the zero-coupon
bonds and therefore, how much Amcon raises in funds, Chike-Obi
said. The central bank said in a statement on Nov. 9 that Amcon
would buy 2.2 trillion naira of bad debts from the banks, more
than a previous forecast of $10 billion naira.  When the bonds expire in three years, Amcon will sell
seven-year, coupon-bearing bonds, Chike-Obi said. The company’s
major activities will be concluded within 10 years, he said.  Valuation  Amcon valued loans backed by  shares  in listed companies at
about a 60 percent premium on the 60-day average price of those
shares as of Nov. 15, Chike-Obi said.  The reason for the premium was because shares are probably
undervalued at the moment, he said. Nigerian banks are trading
at 1.2 times their book value, the difference between a
company’s assets and liabilities, compared with a historical
average of 2.  “So the valuation derives from trying to get the 1.2 close
to 2 times book,” he said. “We think it’s fair, it’s
consistent, it’s transparent.”  Amcon is acquiring all loans for share purchases provided
by Nigeria’s 24 banks and the non-performing loans of the
rescued banks, Chike-Obi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vincent Nwanma  in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  