-- New York City Off-Track Betting to Shut Down This Week Without Rescue
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-12-01T21:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/nyc-off-track-betting-to-shut-down-this-week-unless-legislation-approved.html
New York City Off-Track Betting
Corp., the bankrupt operator of horse-race gambling sites, plans
to shut down in two days unless the state Senate passes
legislation to keep it in business.  OTB’s board of directors voted today to approve a closing
plan, said Jessica Bassett, a spokeswoman for New York Governor
 David Paterson . The closing would lead to the loss of as many as
800 employee jobs, she said.  “They don’t have enough money to get through December,”
Bassett said.  OTB, which is trying to restructure in bankruptcy, pressed
lawmakers at a special session this week to pass legislation it
needs to continue operating. The state Assembly passed the bill
yesterday. The Senate didn’t take up the measure and must
approve it by Dec. 3 to avert a shutdown, according to Bassett.  “I ask and urge the good men and women of the New York
Senate, to come back by Friday and approve the plan that the
Assembly approved so we don’t have to go ahead with the
closing,” board Chairman  Larry Schwartz  at a meeting after an
executive session.  OTB “intends to discontinue all business operations and
shut down each and all of its facilities” on Dec. 3, OTB Chief
of Staff Sylvia Hamer wrote to Mayor  Michael Bloomberg 
yesterday. “The corporation will have exhausted all
unrestricted funds available to continue its operations beyond
that date unless circumstances materially change.”  A copy of Hamer’s letter was provided by Paterson’s office.  Smaller Payments  The proposed state legislation would reduce or eliminate
certain payments OTB makes, according to a summary of the
measure filed with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan. It
would also prohibit OTB from filing another Chapter 9 bankruptcy
petition and require its annual budget to be independently
reviewed by the state budget director.  “Right now, there are concerns with the legislation
proposed by the governor, and if he wants to secure passage, he
will have to secure 32 votes among the 61 members of the Senate
before the bill can be acted on,”  Austin Shafran , spokesman for
the Senate Majority Conference, said today in an e-mailed
response to questions.  Bankruptcy Plan  OTB’s bankruptcy plan depends on passage of the
legislation. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Martin Glenn  in Manhattan
said in a written order today that OTB could send the plan to
creditors for a vote.  Richard Levin , OTB’s bankruptcy attorney, told Glenn at a
hearing yesterday that the corporation won’t seek creditor
support for the plan if the legislation fails. Levin declined to
comment today.  OTB, which filed for bankruptcy in December 2009 after
years of loses, receives a percentage of total dollars wagered
through its services and makes distributions to the state, local
governments and various horse racetracks. For the year ending
March 31, OTB had an operating loss of $37.2 million after
making the required payments, it said in court papers.  The case is In re New York City Off-Track Betting Corp.,
09-17121, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;  Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at
   bmcgrail@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 