-- Obama Said to Reject Drilling Off the Atlantic Coast, Florida
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2010-12-01T17:54:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/obama-administration-said-to-reject-drilling-in-gulf-off-florida-s-coast.html
The Obama administration has reversed
a decision to allow oil and natural-gas drilling in the eastern
Gulf of Mexico and off part of the Atlantic coast following the
 BP Plc  spill, an administration official said.  President  Barack Obama  won’t support new drilling in those
areas in the administration’s next five-year plan for offshore
exploration, according to the official familiar with the
administration’s decision who spoke today on condition of
anonymity before a planned announcement. Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  may discuss the decision on a conference call with
reporters later today.  Obama in March proposed drilling off the Atlantic coast
from south of Delaware and in the eastern Gulf of Mexico 125
miles (201 kilometers) off the west coast of Florida. Less than
a month after the announcement, BP’s Macondo well blew out,
killing 11 workers on a drilling rig and setting off the worst
U.S. offshore oil spill.  “I don’t think anyone is moving into this area anytime
soon anyway,”  Allen Good , an equity analyst at  Morningstar Inc .
in Chicago, said in a phone interview today. “The concerns are
with the speed future licenses will be approved in the areas
they are drilling in right now,” such as the Gulf off the
Louisiana coast, he said.  Obama’s proposal before the BP spill had included drilling
50 miles off the Virginia coast, in what would be the first
offshore Atlantic oil and gas sale in more than two decades.
Former President  George W. Bush  removed a presidential
moratorium on offshore drilling in 2008, and Congress let a ban
expire.  “Today’s reported announcement by the Obama administration
that the eastern Gulf of Mexico, Atlantic, and Pacific coasts
will be excluded from the upcoming five-year offshore
exploration plan represents a major step backward for the
security of America’s energy future,” Karen Harbert, president
of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s Institute for 21st Century
Energy said in a statement. The Washington-based chamber is the
largest U.S. business lobbying group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  