-- Obama Confers With Powell in Bid to Push Russia Arms Pact Through Congress
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-12-01T21:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/obama-confers-with-powell-in-bid-to-push-russia-arms-pact-through-congress.html
President  Barack Obama  sought to keep
pressure on the Senate to ratify a nuclear arms treaty with
Russia, bringing former Secretary of State  Colin Powell  to the
White House for a discussion about national security.  After their meeting in the Oval Office, both Obama and
Powell told reporters that ratification of the treaty is
necessary for the nation’s security and to maintain good
relations with Russia.  “Now it’s time to get this done,” Obama said. “It is
important for us to make sure we complete the evaluation
process, we finish the debate and we go ahead and finish this up
before the end of the year.”  Ratification of the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, or
START, has stalled in the Senate with Republicans saying there
isn’t enough time before the end of the year to address all of
their concerns about the accord while also working on extending
Bush-era tax cuts and legislation to keep the government funded.  Obama praised Powell’s “unparalleled” experience in
national security issues. Before serving as secretary of state
for President  George W. Bush , he was chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, the nation’s highest military position.  Importance of Treaty  “Colin is one of a number of former national security
advisers, secretaries of defense, secretaries of state, from
both Democratic and Republican administrations that have
emphasized how important it is to get this done,” Obama said.
“He understands, as so many others understand, a world without
binding U.S.-Russia arms control treaties is a more dangerous
world.”  Last month, Obama met at the White House with  James Baker ,
President  George H.W. Bush ’s secretary of state;  Henry Kissinger , secretary of state under Presidents  Richard Nixon  and
 Gerald Ford ; and  Madeleine Albright , President  Bill Clinton ’s secretary of state.  The treaty limits each side’s strategic warheads to no more
than 1,550, from 2,200 allowed previously, and sets a maximum of
800 land-, air- and sea-based launchers.  “The world has benefited by having fewer of these horrible
weapons,” Powell said. “New START continues this process.”  Each of the last three arms-reduction treaties was ratified
with more than 90 votes. The previous treaty expired in
December.  U.S.-Russia Cooperation  Obama said that ratifying the treaty will improve U.S.
relations with Russia that have already been bolstered by
cooperation between the two nations on dealing with Iran and
U.S. operations in Afghanistan.  Obama and Powell also said that a failure to ratify the
treaty would hold up new verification procedures for the U.S.
and Russia to monitor each other’s nuclear arsenals.  “When you have uncertainty in the area of nuclear weapons,
that’s a much more dangerous world to live in,” Obama said.  Senator  Mark Kirk , a newly elected Republican from
Illinois, said there isn’t enough support for the treaty for it
to be ratified. Ratification requires the votes of 67 Senators
in the 100-member body.  Only two Republicans have publicly backed ratification.
Democrats control the chamber 58-42.  “They don’t have the votes,” Kirk said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  