-- Mobius Says `Consumers Are Back' as U.S. Shopping Drives Stocks
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2010-12-01T17:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/mobius-says-consumers-are-back-as-u-s-shopping-drives-stocks.html
Rising confidence among U.S.
consumers will help drive global economic growth and spur a
“secular bull market” in developing-nation stocks, investor
 Mark Mobius  said.  “The consumers are back,” Mobius, who oversees about $34
billion as executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets
Group, said in a phone interview today. “There’s still an
incredible amount of economic activity taking place, more in
emerging markets, but it’s also true in the U.S.”  The Conference Board’s  index of U.S. consumer sentiment 
rose in November to the highest level in five months, while
figures from ADP Employer Services today showed companies
boosted payrolls by more than economists’ estimated ahead of the
holiday-shopping season. A Brazilian gauge of consumer
confidence jumped to a record last month. Companies that sell
discretionary consumer goods have  led gains  in global equities
this year, according to  MSCI Inc . indexes.  “The airports are packed with people travelling and
shopping,” said Mobius, who spoke after reaching Hong Kong from
Dubai. “You see that everywhere you travel.”  The Conference Board’s sentiment index increased to 54.1,
exceeding the median forecast of 53 in a Bloomberg News survey,
figures from the New York-based research group showed yesterday.
Companies in the U.S. boosted payrolls by 93,000 in November,
the most since November 2007 and propelled by increased hiring
at small businesses, ADP Employer Services said today.  In Brazil, the Getulio Vargas Foundation’s seasonally
adjusted consumer-confidence index rose to 125.4 in November,
highest since at least 2005, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The MSCI All-Country World Consumer Discretionary Index has
climbed 21 percent this year, compared with a 5.2 percent gain
in MSCI’s gauge of global shares.  “I never believed in a double dip” recession, Mobius
said. “It’s just not in the cards.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 