-- Tokyo Electric Unit Plans 50% Expansion in Wind, Solar Capacity
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2010-12-01T02:17:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/tokyo-electric-s-eurus-unit-plans-50-expansion-in-wind-solar-capacity.html
Eurus Energy Holdings Corp. , a unit
of  Tokyo Electric Power Co. , may invest as much as 100 billion
yen ($1.2 billion) to expand wind and solar energy generation by
more than half and meet rising demand for cleaner power.  Japan’s biggest wind farm operator plans to increase output
from renewable energy projects by 1,000 megawatts from 1,950
megawatts in the U.S., Asia and Europe in five years,  Tetsuro Nagata , president and chief executive officer, said in an
interview in Tokyo yesterday.  “In the coming few years, the U.S. will be the most
attractive market” after President  Barack Obama  called for more
investments in renewable energy, Nagata said. The company may
invest in wind farms in states including Texas, Oregon,
Washington, Oklahoma and Colorado that often experience strong
winds, he said.  Tokyo Electric plans to invest as much as 3.5 trillion yen
in low-carbon energy, including wind, solar and nuclear
generation, by 2020. Eurus Energy, which is 60 percent owned by
Asia’s biggest utility, will lead Tokyo Electric’s  development 
of wind and solar power projects.  New projects will be financed with 25 billion yen that
Eurus Energy raised in February from Tepco and its other
shareholder,  Toyota Tsusho Corp. , an affiliate of Toyota Motor
Corp., Nagata said. The company will seek project finance for
the remainder, he said.  “We may be able to borrow three to four times” the equity
amount, depending on bank approvals, Nagata said.  Solar Plans  The company, which is named after Eurus, the Greek god of
the east wind, has 587 megawatts of  capacity  in the U.S., 726
megawatts in Europe and 636 megawatts in Asia, Nagata said.  Solar power will account for about 10 percent of the
increase in output while the rest will be generated from wind
power, Nagata said.  Eurus Energy and NRG Solar, a unit of  NRG Energy Inc. , said
in September they will operate a 45-megawatt solar power project
in California. The project, which Eurus says will cost $220
million, is expected to start supplying power in June 2011.
Pacific Gas & Electric Co. signed a 20-year contract to buy
power from the development.  In Asia, where Eurus Energy has wind firms in Japan and
South Korea, government aid for renewable energy and
infrastructure is needed, Nagata said.  Thailand, the Philippines, and Taiwan, which have many
locations with good winds, will be attractive markets if
governments support projects, Nagata said.  Eurus Energy will today start operation of a 46-megawatt
wind farm in Fukushima prefecture north of Tokyo, Nagata said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tsuyoshi Inajima  in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
 Yuji Okada  in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash in Singapore at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 