-- Honda, Nissan, Hyundai U.S. Sales Climb; Toyota Drops on Recall Fallout
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2010-12-02T03:55:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/honda-nissan-hyundai-u-s-sales-climb-toyota-drops-on-recall-fallout.html
Hyundai Motor Co. , the fastest
growing mass-market auto company in the U.S., posted a 45
percent sales gain last month on the strength of its Sonata
sedans and Genesis luxury cars as  Toyota Motor Corp.  missed out
on resurgence in demand.  Hyundai’s sales grew to 40,723 vehicles in November, a
record for the month. Toyota’s sales fell 3.3 percent, the sole
decline among major automakers, and second consecutive monthly
drop for the world’s largest car company.  Honda Motor Co. ’s
sales rose 21 percent and  Nissan Motor Co. ’s grew 27 percent.  “Sonata has done phenomenally in the midsize car
segment,” said  Jeff Schuster , director of forecasting at
researcher J.D. Power & Associates in Troy, Michigan. “Camry
and Corolla really underperformed last month, which I think has
to do with very competitive vehicles.”  Hyundai’s gains came as industrywide sales increased 17
percent in November, led by demand for pickups, crossovers
vehicles and other light trucks. Seoul-based Hyundai’s surge
this year coincided with Toyota’s efforts to reassure U.S.
buyers about its quality after record recalls and the
strengthening of the nation’s currency to a 15-year high against
the dollar, which trims the competitiveness of its exporters.  12.3 Million Rate  Toyota fell 0.5 percent to 3,295 yen in Tokyo as of 12:36
p.m. Honda rose 2.1 percent and  Nissan  gained 2.5 percent.
Hyundai Motor  shares  fell 0.6 percent in Seoul.  Industrywide light-vehicle sales continued at an annualized
12.3 million rate for a second month, the fastest pace since the
U.S. government’s “cash for clunkers” program in 2009, said
Autodata Corp. Asia-based brands boosted sales 16 percent to
400,358 vehicles, trailing the industry’s 17 percent increase.
As a result, Japanese and South Korean carmakers’ market share
fell 0.5 percentage point to 45.8 percent, Autodata said.  Among the U.S.-based makers, GM reported an 11 percent
sales gain,  Ford Motor Co.  posted a 24 percent increase and
Chrysler Group LLC said it had a 17 percent advance.  Toyota sold 129,317 Toyota, Lexus and Scion vehicles last
month, down from 133,700 a year earlier. The Toyota City, Japan-
based company’s decline was led by its top-selling Camry and
Corolla cars, down 24 percent and 26 percent, respectively.  “Toyota used to be the default brand choice, but now
consumers are looking around, checking out Hyundai and Kia and
liking what they see,” said  Rebecca Lindland , an industry
analyst with IHS Automotive. “Market share is up for grabs.”  Camry, Corolla Drop  The drop for midsize Camrys and Corolla small cars was the
result of tougher competition and a decision to reduce sales to
fleets, said U.S. Group Vice President  Bob Carter .  “We had a significant decline in fleet volume for the
month, in fact it was the lowest level of the year,” he said in
a conference call yesterday. Sales to fleets, which tend to be
less profitable, fell 58 percent, accounting for just 6 percent
of Toyota’s U.S. deliveries last month, Carter said.  To boost sales in December, the company has begun a year-
end campaign that will focus mainly on no-interest loans and
discounted leases, he said.  Toyota’s market share for the month was 14.8 percent, down
from 17.9 percent a year earlier, according to Autodata.  The company is repairing more than 8 million vehicles this
year to fix problems relating to unintended acceleration and has
continued to recall Lexus and Toyota models for other defects.  “There’s still lingering concern, some impact Toyota is
feeling from its recalls,” J.D. Power’s Schuster said.  ‘Brand Perception’  Sales at Hyundai, South Korea’s largest automaker,
increased from 28,045 a year earlier. Sales surged 72 percent
for the Sonata sedan, while Tucson crossover volume more than
tripled.  Kia Motors Corp. , partly owned by Hyundai, reported a 48
percent gain to 26,601 vehicles for the month, on higher sales
of Soul wagons and Sorento SUVs.  “Brand perception has improved fast in the U.S. after
Hyundai and Kia started to sell new models that have improved
quality,” said  Cho Soo Hong , an analyst at Woori Investment &
Securities Co. in Seoul. “The global financial crisis and
Toyota’s recalls also helped speed up narrowing the gap between
consumers’ perception and actual quality improvement made in
Hyundai and Kia cars.”  Hyundai’s market share grew to 4.7 percent, from 3.8
percent a year earlier. In the year’s first 11 months Hyundai’s
U.S. sales rose 23 percent, the biggest gain among high-volume
brands.  Hyundai, Kia  Combined sales in the U.S. for Hyundai and Kia, which share
vehicle platforms, powertrains and a chairman, top those of
Nissan’s this year through November, at 819,250 compared with
814,840 for Nissan. If the lead continues in December that would
rank the partner companies sixth in U.S. sales volume for the
first time, behind GM, Ford, Toyota, Honda and Chrysler.  Japanese automakers are also hampered by the strong yen.
The currency has risen 11 percent against the dollar in 2010
compared with a 1.1 percent rise for the won. A stronger
currency reduces the competitiveness of exports and the yen-
value of profit made outside Japan.  Operating profit at Toyota, which exports a higher ratio of
vehicles than Nissan or Honda, is cut by 30 billion yen ($357
million) for each one yen appreciation of the Japanese currency
against dollar.  Honda, based in Tokyo, delivered 89,617 Honda and Acura
brand vehicles, an increase from 74,003 a year ago. Sales rose
37 percent for the revamped Odyssey minivan and 31 percent for
the compact CR-V crossover. The Accord car, Honda’s top-selling
U.S. model, had a 10 percent increase. The company’s Acura brand
had a 22 percent increase, aided by higher sales of TSX and TL
sedans and MDX SUVs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at   kinoue@bloomberg.net  