-- One Killed, Several Hurt in Protest in Sudan's Darfur, United Nations Says
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2010-12-01T21:24:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/one-killed-in-protest-in-sudan-s-darfur-united-nations-says.html
At least one person was killed
and several injured at a protest in  Sudan ’s western region
of Darfur, the joint  United Nations  and African Union
peacekeeping mission said.  The incident took place today when gunfire broke out
during a protest in the town of Zelengi in West Darfur
state, the mission said in an e-mailed statement. It
occurred as a delegation of mediators in the Darfur peace
process was holding a meeting with civil society
representatives, the mission said.  “As the party departed the protests turned violent,”
the statement said. The delegation was led by Qatari
Foreign Minister  Ahmed bin Abdulla Al-Mahmoud  and the
peacekeeping mission’s chief mediator,  Djibrill Bassolé ,
the mission said.  Sudan’s two main rebel groups, the Sudan Liberation
Movement faction and the Justice and Equality Movement,
have halted peace talks with the Sudanese government. They
accuse the government of violating previous  agreements  and
demand that armed pro-government militias be disarmed.  Sudan’s army has been fighting rebels in Darfur since
2003, when insurgents took up arms, accusing the government
of neglecting the region.  The conflict has led to the death of as many as
300,000 people, mainly due to illness and starvation, and
forced about 2.7 million people to flee their homes,
according to UN estimates. The Sudanese government has put
the death toll at about 10,000.  The  International Criminal Court  has issued arrest
warrants for Sudanese President  Umar al-Bashir , accusing
him of responsibility for genocide and war crimes in
Darfur. He denies the charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maram Mazen  in Khartoum via the Cairo newsroom at
   mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 