-- Hong Kong Stocks Advance, Reversing Declines; Developers Climb on Sales
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2010-12-01T09:09:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/hong-kong-stocks-fall-on-china-tightening-europe-debt-concerns.html
Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  rose to
the highest level in more than a week, as Wharf Holdings Ltd.
gained after it bought land, and China-based developers climbed
after Guangzhou R&F Properties Co. said sales more than doubled.  Wharf Holdings, owner of two of Hong Kong’s largest
shopping centers, surged 7.1 percent after saying it bought two
plots of land in China. Guangzhou R&F Properties, the No. 1
real-estate company in the southern Chinese city, jumped 5.4
percent after contracted sales in November more than doubled.
 China Shenhua Energy Co. , the nation’s biggest coal producer,
advanced 2 percent after its parent said coal liquefaction
production will increase.  “Valuations are pretty reasonable, and corporate growth
outlook is still relatively strong in Hong Kong,” making the
market attractive, said  Alex Au , managing director of Richland
Capital Management Ltd. in Hong Kong, which oversees $300
million of assets. “Property stocks in China have gone down to
a low level, and some people are bargain hunting.”  The  Hang Seng Index  rose 1.1 percent to 23,249.80, the
highest close since Nov. 22. The gauge earlier fell as much as
0.7 percent. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  of so-called
H shares of Chinese companies gained 1 percent to 12,949.85.  Wharf Holdings soared 7.1 percent to HK$55.90, the  biggest
gain  in the Hang Seng Index, after saying it bought two plots of
land in China’s Jiangsu province. The 1.12 billion yuan ($168
million) purchase will bring Wharf’s land reserve in China to
more than 110 million square feet, it said.  Guangzhou R&F Properties  China-based developers rose, even amid China monetary
policy tightening concerns, as Guangzhou R&F Properties said
contracted sales in November jumped 103 percent to 4.4 billion
yuan from a year earlier boosting optimism that other developers
will also report higher sales. Guangzhou R&F Properties gained
5.4 percent to HK$10.88.  Erwin Sanft , head of China and Hong Kong research at BNP
Paribas, recommended property developers in a Bloomberg
Television interview, saying large companies may benefit from
further fund inflows.  China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. , controlled by the
nation’s construction ministry, rose 3 percent to HK$15.36, and
China Resources Land Ltd., a state-controlled developer,
advanced 1.9 percent to HK$14.18. Bank of China Ltd., the
nation’s fourth-largest lender by market value, rose 1.4 percent
to HK$4.22.  China Shenhua  China Shenhua Energy Co. , a coal company, advanced 2
percent to HK$33.30 after the parent company’s technology
development department said Shenhua Group Corp.’s coal
liquefaction production may reach 3 million metric tons a year
by 2015. Output this year is estimated at 649,000 tons this year,
data on the company’s website show. Shenhua Group, the parent
company, is China’s sole producer of fuels from coal.  The  Hang Seng Index  posted its first monthly decline in
three yesterday as the threat that Europe’s debt crisis will
spread and expectations China will increase interest rates
overshadowed optimism about rising U.S. spending. Shares in the
gauge trade at an average 14.7 times  estimated earnings ,
compared with about 17.2 times at the start of the year.  China-based banks declined earlier as the country’s fastest
manufacturing growth in seven months raised concern the
government will introduce further measures to contain inflation.
A  measure of banks  dropped as much as 0.8 percent before closing
0.8 percent higher.  China’s  manufacturing  accelerated in November, indicating
the economy can withstand higher interest rates as price
pressures escalate. The Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to 55.2
points, beating the 54.8 median estimate of 14 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “The manufacturing number shows the economy is still
healthy and that will give the government some confidence to
push out more cooling measures,” said Deng Changrong, a
strategist at Huaxi Securities Co. in Shenzhen, China. “The
market will face downward pressure in the coming few months.”  More than four stocks rose for every one that fell on the
45-member Hang Seng Index. Futures on the gauge gained 1 percent
to 23,265.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 