-- Prostate Cancer Risk Is Lower in Men With Long Index Fingers, Study Finds
-- B y   M a r t h e   F o u r c a d e
-- 2010-12-01T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/long-index-finger-means-lower-risk-of-prostate-cancer-u-k-study-finds.html
Men with long index fingers are at
lower risk of prostate cancer, a study found.  Scientists in the U.K. who compared the hands of 1,500
prostate cancer patients and 3,000 healthy men found that those
whose index was longer than their ring finger were 33 percent
less likely to develop the potentially fatal disease.  “Relative finger length could be used as a simple test for
prostate cancer risk,” said Ros Eeles, one of the study’s lead
authors and a researcher who investigates links between genetic
makeup and tumors at London’s Institute of Cancer Research, in a
statement. The study was published in the  British Journal of
Cancer  today.  Finger length is set before birth, influenced by the level
of sex hormones babies are exposed to in the womb, researchers
from the  ICR  and the University of Warwick in Coventry, England,
said in the statement. A longer index finger points to less
testosterone, which may protect against cancer later in life,
they said.  “Our study indicates it is the hormone levels that babies
are exposed to in the womb that can have an effect decades
later,” Ken Muir of the  University of Warwick , the study’s
other lead author, said in the statement. “As our research
continues, we will be able to look at a further range of factors
that may be involved in the makeup of the disease.”  Scientists from  Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine 
and the U.S. National Institute of Aging in 2004 found that men
with high blood levels of  testosterone  were at increased risk of
prostate cancer.  In the study published today, more than half of the men had
an index shorter than the ring finger. Those whose two fingers
were about equal had a similar prostate cancer risk, the
researchers found.  Prostate Action and Cancer Research UK funded the study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marthe Fourcade at 
 mfourcade@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  