-- 
World May Return to Recession as Mideast Conflict Stokes Oil, Garner Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-23T08:48:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/morgan-stanley-s-garner-targets-19-emerging-market-stocks-gain-next-year.html
The global economy may tip back into
recession if oil prices reach $120 because of unrest in the
Middle East and North  Africa , according to Morgan Stanley.  Oil prices jumped to the highest in more than two years in
New York as Libya’s violent uprising threatened to disrupt
exports from Africa’s third-biggest supplier and spread to other
crude-producing nations in the Middle East. Crude for April
delivery gained as much as 0.7 percent to $96.08 a barrel in  New
York . Oil has rallied 9.2 percent since Jan. 24, the day before
the first anti-government protests erupted in Egypt.  “If you go above $120 on a sustainable basis, you will
have a meaningful shortfall in global growth relative to what
the current consensus expects,”  Jonathan Garner , Morgan
Stanley’s chief Asia and emerging-market strategist, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview in Hong Kong.  Garner joins economists at Mirae Asset Securities in saying
another jump in oil prices could stall global growth. Political
unrest that has swept from  Tunisia  to Yemen, Algeria, Bahrain
and  Iran  in the past four weeks is fanning oil’s advance at a
time when the world economy is emerging from the deepest
recession in more than 50 years.  The global economy can withstand the surge in oil prices so
long as the increase proves short-lived, the International
Monetary Fund’s No. 2 official said yesterday, echoing Deutsche
Bank AG and Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Libya Violence  “It’s unlikely it would make a substantial change in the
global economic outlook,”  John Lipsky , the IMF’s first deputy
managing director, told Bloomberg Television’s “Inside Track.”  Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  vowed to fight a growing
rebellion until his “last drop of blood,” as parts of the
capital of Tripoli resembled a war zone and some of his
followers and troops defected to the opposition.  “You’ve got to be concerned, particularly because of the
effect on the oil price,” Bill Belchere, global chief economist
at Mirae, said Feb. 21 in an interview with Bloomberg Television.
“If you have the oil price spike up another $20 to $30, you can
re-enter another global recession again.” Oil settled at $86.20
on Feb. 18, the previous trading day.  --Allen Wan, Susan Li in  Hong Kong . With assistance from Simon
Kennedy and Lizzie O’Leary. Editors: Reinie Booysen, Richard Frost  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  