-- Morgan Stanley Said to Sell Its 34.3% CICC Stake to TPG, Singapore's GIC
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n   a n d   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2010-12-02T04:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/morgan-stanley-said-to-sell-its-34-3-cicc-stake-to-tpg-singapore-s-gic.html
Morgan Stanley  is selling its 34.3
percent stake in  China International Capital Corp.  to  Kohlberg
Kravis Roberts & Co. , TPG Capital, Singapore’s Great Eastern
Holdings Ltd. and the island nation’s sovereign-wealth fund,
four people with direct knowledge of the deal said.  Morgan Stanley plans to sell stakes of about 10 percent
each to TPG and  KKR , and about a 5 percent stake to Great
Eastern, the insurer controlled by Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp.,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the
matter isn’t public. Government of Singapore Investment Corp.
will buy the remainder, the people said. The 34.3 percent stake
is valued at about $1 billion, two of the people said.  The sale will end  Morgan Stanley ’s 15-year involvement in
CICC, the first Sino-foreign investment bank and the top-ranked
underwriter of share sales in the country. The U.S. firm, which
ceded management control of CICC a decade ago, plans to form a
partnership with Shenzhen-based China Fortune Securities Co.  CICC is 43.35 percent owned by  Central Huijin Investment
Ltd. , the investment arm of China Investment Corp., the nation’s
$300 billion sovereign fund, according to CICC’s website. GIC
and closely held Mingly Corp. each own 7.35 percent while China
National Investment & Guaranty Co. has 7.65 percent.  A shareholder of Shenzhen-based China Fortune Securities Co.
said this week it approved a plan by the Chinese brokerage to
set up a venture with Morgan Stanley.  Blocked Purchase Plan  Great Eastern  was originally in discussions with CICC to
buy Morgan Stanley’s entire stake and the plan was blocked by
Chinese regulators, said one of the people.  It’s Morgan Stanley’s second attempt to dispose of the
holding in CICC. Talks with leveraged-buyout firms fell apart in
early 2008 on disagreements about price, according to a South
China Morning Post report at the time.  Morgan Stanley invested $35 million in CICC when it was
established in 1995. It ceded management control in 2000 and
CICC is now run by  Levin Zhu , the son of former Chinese Premier
 Zhu Rongji . Singapore’s GIC also bought CICC shares in 1995 and
has been one of the founding shareholders, according to CICC’s
website.  The Chinese government allowed Morgan Stanley to invest in
CICC in return for the expertise required to build China’s first
investment bank.  Elaine La Roche , the last Morgan Stanley-
appointed head of CICC, stepped down in June 2000.  Regulator’s Approval  Mark Lake , a Morgan Stanley spokesman, declined to comment.
TPG spokesman  Owen Blicksilver  and  Kristi Huller  of KKR declined
to comment. Great Eastern spokeswoman  Tan Seck Geok  didn’t
return telephone messages left outside of normal business hours
in Singapore and an e-mail seeking comment wasn’t immediately
answered.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission said in a Nov.
29  statement  on its website that it approved CICC’s application
for a shareholding change involving a more than 5 percent stake,
without elaborating.  Under Chinese regulations, a foreign firm can own as much
as 33 percent of a stock and bond underwriting venture with a
local partner. Morgan Stanley was barred from setting up such a
company because of its ownership of CICC.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG
are among non-Chinese investment banks that have underwriting
ventures in China, the world’s biggest market for initial public
offerings.  CICC has been the top underwriter of stock sales on China’s
two exchanges for four of the past five years, and is on course
to keep the No. 1 position in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. UBS Securities Co. is the biggest foreign-backed
underwriter in 18th place, the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Will McSheehy at 
 mcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 