-- Orleans Homebuilders Wins Approval of Restructuring Plan to Cut Debt
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2010-12-01T18:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/orleans-homebuilders-wins-court-approval-of-reorganization-plan.html
Orleans Homebuilders Inc. , the 92-
year-old Bensalem, Pennsylvania-based homebuilder, won court
approval of its restructuring plan cutting its debt by more than
half to less than $200 million.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Peter J. Walsh  gave the company
approval after wording changes were made to the turnaround plan,
according to court documents filed today in Wilmington,
Delaware.  “All of the impaired voting classes voted overwhelmingly
to accept the plan,”  Joel Levitin , a lawyer for the homebuilder
told Walsh at a hearing yesterday, when they were seeking
confirmation of the recovery plan.  Secured lenders with claims of about $145 million will get
all of the reorganized company’s equity, for a projected
recovery of 67 percent to 87 percent, according to the plan. The
lenders also have a claim of about $113 million that will get
nothing.  Unsecured creditors, which voted 98.6 percent in support of
the plan, are expected to get about 3 to 5 cents on the dollar.
The creditors, owed about $166 million, will share a $6 million
fund, according to court papers. They will also get any
recoveries from lawsuits and proceeds from home sales once the
lenders have been paid.  Current stockholders won’t get anything under the plan and
the shares will be canceled.  Orleans abandoned a $170 million sale to competitor  NVR
Inc.  to pursue a restructuring plan with a majority of its
secured creditors. The resulting plan reduces its debt from more
than $400 million to less than $200, according to an Aug. 12
statement.  The company will use a $155 million financing package to
fund its exit from bankruptcy, according to court documents. The
company will borrow a $125 million term loan and a $30 million
revolving credit facility. The homebuilder may have more than
$40 million in liquidity upon exiting bankruptcy, Levitin said
at the hearing.  Orleans Homebuilders, which has been building homes in
Pennsylvania and New Jersey for more than 90 years, was founded
by Alfred P. Orleans in 1918, according to its  website . The
company started expanding in 2000 and builds condominiums,
townhouses, and single-family homes in New York, Illinois,
Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Virginia, Florida and North and South
Carolina.  The company listed about $440 million in  assets  and about
$498.8 million in debt as of Dec. 31 according to a statement
filed March 1, the same day it sought bankruptcy protection. The
builder was forced to seek bankruptcy after failing to win the
unanimous consent required from its 17 lenders to extend the
maturity of its $350 million loan.  The case is In re Orleans Homebuilders Inc., 10-10684, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Bathon  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 