-- Osborne Says Irish Government Should Decide its Own Budget, Corporate Tax
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2010-12-01T23:41:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/osborne-says-irish-government-should-decide-its-own-budget-corporate-tax.html
Ireland’s politicians should
determine their country’s corporate tax rate without pressure
from other countries, U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said.  Ireland, which will receive an international rescue package
led by European Union governments and the International Monetary
Fund, may face demands for wide-ranging restrictions on economic
policy, including abandoning its 12.5 percent corporate-tax
regime. The U.K. offered a 3.25 billion-pound ($5.1 billion)
bilateral loan to its neighbor, citing economic ties.  “The Irish have got some very difficult decisions about
their budget deficit, and that should be a decision for the
elected Irish government and the Irish parliament, not a
decision for the British government or the German government or
anyone else,” Osborne told CNBC television in an interview
broadcast today.  Irish unemployment more than doubled in the past two years
as the economy shrank, banks and builders cut jobs and a housing
boom ended, pushing the budget deficit to around 12 percent of
gross domestic product this year. Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan 
will outline a budget on Dec. 7, the first step in a four-year
plan to cut the deficit to 3 percent of GDP by 2014.  The U.K. government plans to cut its business tax rate at a
time when it is cutting spending and raising taxes, Osborne
said, which shows his country’s “determination to be the go-to
place for investment in the world.”  British people support spending cuts because they
understand their country’s fiscal situation, Osborne said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  