-- Motorola Gains After Setting Jan. 4 Date for Split
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2010-12-02T01:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/motorola-jumps-after-announcing-jan-4-date-for-company-to-split-in-two.html
Motorola Inc. , the U.S. maker of
mobile phones and two-way radios that plans to split in two,
climbed the most in more than two months after saying it will
complete the move on Jan. 4 and issue new shares.  Motorola investors will get one share of Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc., the new company built around the handset unit,
for every eight shares they now own, the company said yesterday.
Immediately afterward, it will swap seven old shares of Motorola
for one new share in the remaining company, boosting the stock’s
value by a proportional amount to lift its marketability.  The phone and television set-top box businesses that make
up Motorola Mobility will remain under co-Chief Executive
Officer  Sanjay Jha . Co-CEO  Greg Brown  will run Motorola
Solutions, which will house the company’s remaining businesses
including bar-code scanners, walkie-talkies and other emergency-
communication equipment.  Motorola, based in Schaumburg, Illinois, rose 35 cents, or
4.5 percent, to $8.01 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading, the most since Sept. 13. The  shares  have
climbed 3.2 percent this year. Motorola Solutions will trade
under the ticker symbol MSI starting Jan. 4, and Motorola
Mobility will use the symbol MMI.  Likely Loss  Motorola Mobility expects to post a loss at its mobile-
devices unit in the first quarter, though it will be
“significantly improved” from a year earlier, Jha said today
at a technology conference in Scottsdale, Arizona. He said he
expects the company to be in a “very narrow range around break-
even” in the  first quarter  as performance at its set-top box
business improves.  There are no changes to its fourth-quarter forecast and a
target of 12 million to 14 million phone shipments for the
period still ‘feels right,” he said.  Motorola Mobility plans to introduce tablet devices with 7-
inch and 10-inch screens as both formats are “quite
meaningful,” Jha said. Apple CEO  Steve Jobs  said in October
that devices like Research In Motion Ltd.’s planned 7-inch
BlackBerry PlayBook are “dead on arrival” because they are too
small to compete with the iPad, which has a 9.7-inch screen.  Jha didn’t elaborate today on when Motorola’s own tablet is
likely to come out. He said in an October interview that he’s
“very happy with the progress” the company is making in
building its own device, and it’s planning to release a tablet
early next year.  “The tablet represents a growth opportunity for us but not
for every company,” Jha said. “Software differentiation is
going to be very important.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  