-- Tax-Cut Negotiators Urge Delay of Vote Pending Bipartisan Talks
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r
-- 2010-12-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/house-to-take-vote-tomorrow-on-middle-class-tax-cuts-democrat-hoyer-says.html
The U.S. lawmakers selected to
negotiate with the Obama administration on extending all or some
of the Bush-era tax cuts said congressional leaders should drop
plans to hold votes until the negotiators can meet.  Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, and Representative
 David Camp , a Michigan Republican, said holding votes right away
on extending lower tax rates for the first $250,000 of income,
as President  Barack Obama  has proposed, would be premature.  Camp, who will be chairman of the House Ways and Means
Committee starting in January, and Baucus, chairman of the
Senate Finance Committee, were appointed yesterday as
congressional delegates to the talks. Obama named Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and Office of Management and Budget
Director  Jack Lew  as the administration’s representatives.
Arizona Senator  Jon Kyl , the chamber’s No. 2 Republican, and
Maryland Representative  Chris Van Hollen , a member of the House
Democratic leadership, complete the group.  The negotiators will hold their first meeting today, the
Treasury Department said.  “I think it’s important to have that meeting first to see
where we are” before any votes, Baucus said yesterday. Camp
agreed, saying “it seems to me we ought to be given a chance”
to begin talks on the tax cuts.  Brokering a Deal  Obama appointed Geithner and Lew to broker a deal with
lawmakers that seeks to avoid expiration of all of the 2001 and
2003 tax cuts on Dec. 31. Obama and many Democrats want to
retain the lower rates for individuals with an annual income of
$200,000 or less and married couples earning no more than
$250,000 a year. Under the president’s proposal, the lower rates
would expire for incomes above those figures.  Republicans support extending the tax cuts permanently for
all income levels.  House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat whose
party loses control of the chamber next month, previously said
that she was planning a vote for this week on Obama’s proposal.  Senate Democrats had been planning a vote on the same
legislation by next week, Baucus said earlier this week.
Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, yesterday would
not say whether that vote would be delayed.  Democratic leaders face some pressure from their caucus to
hold the vote as a means of testing Republican mettle to oppose
legislation that would retain lower rates for middle-income
taxpayers.  “I myself, I’m not talking about compromise,” said
Senator  Jeff Merkley , an Oregon Democrat. “I think we should go
to the floor and have the vote on $250,000.”  Seeking a Vote  In the House, Massachusetts Democrat  Richard Neal  said he
also was eager for a vote. Neal is challenging Michigan
Representative  Sander Levin  for the top Democratic spot on the
tax-writing Ways and Means Committee.  “I think we’re near the big moment,” Neal said. “I think
both sides want to get a vote up on the board.”  Van Hollen said the House may still vote tomorrow before
adding that “things can change around here quickly.”  Obama appointed Geithner and Lew yesterday after meeting
for almost two hours with Republican and Democratic
congressional leaders at the White House. The president said
both sides agree that action is needed to extend tax cuts to
middle-income families before the end of the year, even as they
remain divided on tax rates for the wealthiest Americans.  “There must be some sensible common ground” to resolve
differences on taxes, Obama said. He said he appointed Geithner
and Lew “to break through this logjam.”  Tax Puzzle  Negotiators must confront six pieces of a tax puzzle to
complete their work. Besides the issue of the extension of lower
income tax rates, they must decide whether to keep the 15
percent tax rate on most dividends and long-term capital gains
or to let them revert to higher levels. They also must resolve a
decade-long dispute over the appropriate level of taxation on
estates worth $1 million or more.  Soon-to-expire tax incentives for parents, married couples
and low-income workers also are in the mix, as is action to roll
back a $66 billion increase in the alternative minimum tax in
place for this year. Lawmakers are struggling to restore dozens
of business-related tax breaks that expired at the end of 2009,
including a research credit claimed by more than 6,000
companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  