-- U.K. House Prices Fall to Nine-Month Low as Supply Rises, Nationwide Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-12-01T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/house-prices-decline-to-nine-month-low-as-supply-climbs-nationwide-says.html
U.K. house prices  fell to a nine-
month low in November as more people tried to sell their homes,
a report by Nationwide Building Society showed.  The average  cost  of a home dropped by 0.3 percent from
October to 163,398 pounds ($255,000), the lowest since February,
Britain’s biggest customer-owned lender said in an e-mailed
statement today. From a year earlier, prices increased 0.4
percent, the least since September 2009.  “Much of the weakness in property values since the spring
has been driven by a return of sellers to the market,”
Nationwide Chief Economist  Martin Gahbauer  said in the
statement. Still, “there is little evidence to suggest that
house-price declines are likely to accelerate.”  Recent reports suggest Britain’s housing market is
faltering. Consumer confidence declined as the government
detailed plans for the biggest fiscal squeeze since World War
II, while  mortgage  approvals fell to an eight-month low in
October. The Treasury’s fiscal watchdog this week cut its
economic growth forecast for 2011 and said the U.K. faces a
“sluggish” recovery.  The outlook for Britain’s recovery has caused a split among
Bank of England policy makers, with one arguing for higher
interest rates to curb inflation and another for more stimulus
to boost  economic growth . Officials this month left the
emergency bond purchase plan at 200 billion pounds and kept the
key interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent.  Falling Prices  Other reports have also shown home values are declining. A
report by Hometrack Ltd. this week showed that house prices fell
for a fifth month in November. The Land Registry said last week
prices dropped in October.  Consumer confidence  unexpectedly fell
to a four-month low in November, a report by GfK NOP Ltd. showed
yesterday.  Nationwide cautioned that there aren’t factors to suggest
that the housing-market downturn will intensify.  “There is little to indicate that these sellers need to
achieve a sale urgently for financial or economic reasons, which
means that the downward pressure on house prices is only
modest,” Gahbauer said.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said on Nov. 29
that Britain’s economic recovery is “on track.” The Office for
Budget responsibility forecasts that about 330,000 government
jobs will be axed by 2015, 160,000 fewer than thought in June,
and the loss will be more than offset by the creation of about
1.5 million private-sector jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  