-- Overweight People, Not Just Obese, More Likely to Die Sooner, Study Says
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 2010-12-01T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/overweight-people-not-just-obese-more-likely-to-die-sooner-study-says.html
People who are overweight or obese
are more likely to die sooner from varying causes than those
with healthy weight, according to the first government study to
pinpoint risks from findings on 1.5 million white Americans.  Women who never smoked and were classified as merely
 overweight  and not obese -- a 5-foot 5-inch female weighing 150
to 179 pounds -- had a 13 percent greater risk of dying sooner
than normal weight peers, the research found. Women who were
obese -- 5-foot 5-inches and more than 180 pounds -- had a 44
percent higher risk. The results for men were similar.  Two-thirds of Americans and at least half the people in
many developed countries are now considered overweight or obese,
according to the authors. Previous studies have documented
higher death rates in the obese, while being inconclusive about
the risks of being overweight. The research, published in the
 New England Journal of Medicine , pooled the results of 19
studies and excluded smokers to provide precise estimates of
increased death risks.  “Both overweight and obesity are associated with increased
all-cause mortality,” wrote the authors led by Amy Berrington
de Gonzalez at the National Cancer Institute. “The results of
our analysis are most relevant to whites living in affluent
countries.”  The researchers restricted their analysis to participants
who were non-Hispanic whites and said similar studies were under
way in other populations.  Body Mass Index  The analysis looked at people’s  body mass index , or BMI, a
measure of weight based on height. The authors identified a
sweet spot that they found was healthiest, a BMI between 20 and
24.9. To be in that category, people who are 5-feet 5-inches
tall should weigh between 120 and 149 pounds and people who are
5-feet 10-inches should weigh 140 to 173 pounds. Weighing more
than that puts people into the overweight category and starts
increasing their risk of health problems that can lead to death.  The death rate increased the most, by 88 percent, in the
severely obese whose BMI is 35 or higher. In the U.S., 17
percent of women and 11 percent of men are severely obese.  For this analysis, researchers looked at 19 studies. The
people involved had a median age of 58 and were followed for a
median of 10 years to record deaths from all causes. Those who
smoked or had pre-existing illness such as heart disease or
cancer were excluded to eliminate the influence of those factors
on their risk of death, the authors said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 