-- Lowe’s Recalls 11 Million Shades on Strangling Risk
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2010-12-01T17:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/lowe-s-recalls-11-million-window-shades-after-near-strangulation-incidents.html
Lowe’s Cos. , the second-largest U.S.
home-improvement retailer, recalled 11 million Roman shades and
roll-up blinds after reports of two near-strangulations, the
U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission said.  The CPSC said  Lowe’s , based in Mooresville, North Carolina,
will recall all brands it sells of the two types of window
coverings, totaling about 6 million Roman shades and 5 million
roll-up blinds. Consumers should stop using the products
immediately and obtain free repair kits, it said.  Lowe’s is joining a recall orchestrated by the CPSC in
December 2009 that covered more than 50 million Roman and roll-
up blinds, also because of strangulation hazards, the agency
said. That recall, one of the CPSC’s largest, covered all such
products sold at retailers including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ,
Williams-Sonoma Inc.’s Pottery Barn outlets and  Restoration
Hardware Inc.   Strangulations can occur when a child plays with loose
cords, wrapping them around his neck, the agency said. Roman
shades, which are drawn up from the bottom into a series of
folds, have an inner cord on their back side that’s hazardous,
the agency said. Roll-up blinds have a lifting loop that can get
loose.  The CPSC’s action last year covered all Roman shades and
roll-up blinds sold in the U.S., including those sold at Lowe’s,
 Karen Cobb , a company spokeswoman, said by telephone. Lowe’s
added its name in the announcement today to underscore the
strangulation risk, she said.  Safety Awareness  “This is not something Lowe’s had to do, it’s something
Lowe’s chose to do,” Cobb said. “We wanted to make sure
customers are inspecting window coverings in their homes. This
is another way of adding awareness.”  The Roman blinds recalled today were sold at Lowe’s stores
and on the company’s website from 1999 through June, the CPSC
said. The roll-up blinds were sold from 1999 through January
2005. The coverings sold for between $10 and $1,800.  In July, a 4-year-old boy in Lexington, South Carolina,
suffered rope burns to his neck after becoming entangled in a
Roman shade cord, the agency said. A 2-year-old boy in Arvada,
Colorado, was found with a cord wrapped around his arm and neck
in November 2009, it said.  No incidents have been reported with roll-up blinds, the
CPSC said.  Consumers can get free repair kits from the  Window Covering
Safety Council  by calling 1-800-506-4636 or visiting its
website,  http://www.windowcoverings.org .  U.S. regulators received reports of five deaths and 16
near-strangulations in Roman shades since 2006 and three deaths
involving roll-up blinds since 2001, the CPSC said in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Plungis  in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  