-- Toyota Must Face Class-Action Suits Over Vehicles' Lost Value, Judge Rules
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 2010-12-01T07:29:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/toyota-loses-bid-to-dismiss-acceleration-class-actions-update1-.html
Toyota Motor Corp. , the automaker
that recalled more than 8 million vehicles related to sudden
acceleration problems, must face class-action lawsuits filed by
car owners claiming economic losses, a U.S. judge ruled.  The car owners’ lawyers provided sufficient evidence to
allow their cases to go forward, U.S. District Judge  James V. Selna  in Santa Ana, California, said yesterday, making final a
tentative ruling issued Nov. 19. Toyota sought dismissal of the
suits, contending the plaintiffs failed to plead specific losses
or identify an actual defect.  “It is true that plaintiffs do not generally allege the
precise dollar value of their losses, but that level of
specificity is not required at the pleadings state,” Selna said
in yesterday’s ruling. “The court is convinced that a safety
consideration as fundamental as whether a car is able to stop
when the brakes are applied is material to consumers.”  The economic-loss  lawsuits , combined for pretrial filings
and rulings before Selna, claim Toyota drove down the value of
vehicles by failing to fix or disclose defects that triggered
unintended acceleration. Federal court lawsuits claiming death
or injury caused by such episodes are also combined in the Santa
Ana court.  In September 2009, Toyota announced a recall of 3.8 million
Toyota and Lexus vehicles, saying floor mats might jam
accelerator pedals. The company, based in Toyota City, Japan,
later recalled vehicles over the pedals themselves.  ‘Merits’ Unaddressed  “Importantly, this ruling does not address the merits of
plaintiffs’ allegations and does not consider any evidence,”
 Celeste Migliore , a Toyota spokeswoman, said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement.  “At this early stage, this analysis by the court requires
a basic assumption that the plaintiffs’ allegations are true,
even though they are unproven,” she said. “The burden is now
squarely on plaintiffs’ counsel to prove their allegations and
Toyota is confident that no such proof exists.”  The lawsuits are “based on a wholly unsubstantiated claim
that there is a defect in Toyota’s electronic throttle control
system that causes unintended acceleration,” Migliore said.
“No credible scientific theory or proof has been advanced to
support the allegations in their consolidated complaint.”  Selna rejected Toyota’s request to dismiss a claim that the
company knew of a defect in the vehicles’ electronic throttle-
control system and concealed it from consumers.  ‘Sufficiently Alleged’  “Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged that Toyota had
exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to plaintiffs
and actively concealed those facts,” Selna wrote.  Toyota also had said the consumers couldn’t sue for losses
on vehicles that hadn’t experienced a sudden, unintended
acceleration defect.  “The court agrees with plaintiffs that experiencing an SUA
defect is not required for standing,” Selna said.  Selna dismissed the consumers’ claim of unjust enrichment,
finding it wasn’t a proper cause of action under California law.
He also dismissed some warranty claims, including one alleging
that Toyota’s advertising created an express warranty.  “We are pleased that the Court found that specific
categories of plaintiffs’ claims for express warranty based upon
alleged design defect, unjust enrichment and revocation of
acceptance, as currently pled, should be dismissed,” Migliore
said.  Steve W. Berman , co-lead counsel for consumers in the case,
said in a statement that he looked forward to moving forward
with a case that is very important to Toyota owners.  “We believe -- and intend to prove -- that Toyota knew the
gravity of this issue, and failed to warn consumers, or take
action to address the serious problem of unintended
acceleration.”  The cases are combined as In re Toyota Motor Corp.
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Bill Callahan  in San Diego at 
 callahan@san.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 