-- Pentagon Won't Pay More for Lockheed's $92 Million JSF, Weapons Buyer Says
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-12-01T21:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/pentagon-unhappy-with-cost-of-lockheed-f-35-weapons-buyer-says.html
The Pentagon won’t pay more for
 Lockheed Martin Corp.’s  Joint Strike Fighter, which has almost
doubled in cost to $92 million a jet, the defense acquisitions
chief said today.  “We’ve got to get the cost growth under control,”  Ashton Carter  said today at a conference in New York. “Those who work
on the Joint Strike Fighter know full well that is the
expectation. I believe it is something that can be done, but I
am not happy with the situation we find ourselves in.”  The original estimate of the F-35’s cost, in 2002, was $50
million a plane. The higher expense “may drive away
customers,” Carter said.  The Pentagon now projects the program, which includes
models for use by the U.S. Navy, Air Force and Marines, will
have a combined cost of $382 billion.  Carter is leading a review of development delays and the
program manager, Vice Admiral David Venlet, is conducting a so-
called technical baseline assessment, which a Pentagon spokesman
called a “deeper dive so as to avoid future surprises about
this program.”  Neither the U.S. House nor the Senate has completed action
on the fiscal  2011 defense budget  that requested about $6.8
billion in production funds for 43 aircraft. The full House
passed a policy bill in May that restricts funding for 13 of the
43 requested jets until the Pentagon certifies that flight-test
goals are met.  ‘Difficult Stage’  The F-35, already about four years behind schedule, “is
at that stage that is always difficult, the transition from
development to production,” Carter said. It’s particularly
challenging since there’s substantial overlap between
construction and testing, he said.  “The inevitable consequence is that we discover things in
test that have to be fixed,” Carter said. “You try to manage
that.”  The Pentagon has maintained an option to purchase more  F-
18s , built by Boeing Co., if development of the F-35 falters.
The number of F-18s was reduced in 1997 during the F-35’s early
development, and Boeing eventually lost the competition to build
that aircraft to Lockheed.  Chicago-based Boeing monitors the F-35’s progress and can
supply more F-18 Super Hornets or  F-15 Strike Eagles  to the
military if needed,  Dennis Muilenburg , head of Boeing’s defense
unit, said in a New York interview. The Super Hornet has a per-
unit cost of less than $50 million and cutting-edge technology,
he said.  “We know our customers have significant challenges right
now on how they fit the capability they need into a limited
budget,” Muilenburg said. “If there’s a desire to increase the
size of the Super Hornet fleet, we are well prepared and
equipped to do that.”  Lockheed Martin climbed $1.36, or 2 percent, to $69.40 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange  composite trading . Boeing
 gained  $1.95, or 3.1 percent, to $65.72.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gopal Ratnam  in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  