-- Isabella Rossellini, Perry Farrell Brave Hordes at Art Basel Miami Beach
-- B y   L i n d s a y   P o l l o c k
-- 2010-12-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/perry-farrell-rossellini-brave-hordes-at-art-basel-miami-beach.html
New York art collector Richard
Ekstract is one of the 40,000 revelers, wranglers and would-be
aesthetes seeking the warmer latitudes of the ninth annual Art
Basel Miami Beach art fair this week.  The trade show features more than 250 international dealers
and first dibs go today to invited VIPs. Lesser mortals have
Dec. 2-5 to embellish their personal Xanadus.  “You try to go and pray you don’t buy anything,” Ekstract
said ahead of the show.  The sprawling Miami Beach Convention Center holds the main
event, with 15 satellite fairs in its orbit. Specialties include
Middle Eastern art (Zoom), West Coast dealers (Aqua) and
graffiti and street art (Graffiti Gone Global).  When culture cloys, there are plenty of amusements.
 Isabella Rossellini  will be screening a series of witty short
videos about animal sex in the lobby of the Wolfsonian design
museum.  Julian Schnabel  has teamed up with Maybach, the luxury
marquee of  Daimler AG , and will unveil his “Queequeg -- the
Maybach Sculpture.”  Rocker  Perry Farrell  will slough off some of his 51 years
to perform at the  Bardot nightclub .  “The entire world of fashion, architecture, you name it,
all want to feed off of the contemporary art world,” said art
adviser Candace Worth. “Everyone has an angle and reason to be
here.”  Heat and Crowds  I queried a few Art Basel-bound regulars to find out why
they brave the heat and crowds.  “I’ve always been interested in anything with a cord, plug
or battery,” said Tulsa, Oklahoma, collector George Kravis II,
who sold his radio stations 12 years ago and now chases design
objects dating from 1900 to the present.  The philanthropist, brother of financier  Henry Kravis , will
attend the fair with a group of Tulsa collectors, including Rand
Suffolk, director of the Philbrook Museum of Art, where Kravis
recently donated 250 works from his design collection and has
been a trustee for more than 40 years.  The Design Miami fair is “my main interest now,” said
Kravis, who also visits the Wolfsonian museum and Miami’s
pastel-hued Art Deco architecture. His collection, which he
stores at home and in a Tulsa warehouse, includes vintage vacuum
cleaners, a clock by American design guru Paul Frankl, mid-
century furniture plus Bakelite radios.  Others look for the undiscovered. “There are so many
people you know at the main fair, and everyone tries to schmooze
you,” said Ekstract, a retired magazine publisher and
entrepreneur.  Newbie Artists  He finds refuge at the smaller outposts featuring newbie
artists. “I’m looking for something that charges me, that sends
me up,” he said.  The odds are tough, he concedes. “Nine out of ten artists
are never heard from again.”  Ana Sokoloff, a contemporary art adviser with a Latin
American specialty, will be making the rounds with clients from
Brazil, Argentina, Peru, Colombia, Venezuela and Mexico. Their
wish lists include names like Dan Graham and sculptor Thea
Djordjadze. For Sokoloff, the fair is “95 percent work and five
percent sleep,” she said. “I try not to go to parties. I don’t
really enjoy the bad service you get because Miami is
overwhelmed.”  Recession Helps  Augusto Arbizo, director of Manhattan’s Eleven Rivington
gallery, participates in the beachside NADA fair, for younger
dealers showing plenty of work priced below $10,000.  Already, a fleet-footed collector couple have reserved
three large-scale painted plywood panels by artist Michael
DeLucia, which Arbizo will give their debut at the fair.  His prediction? Art will be better than ever: the recession
pushes art quality up.  “When the attention is not on the market, artists go back
to their studios,” said Arbizo. “They hunker down and make
good work.”  At the other end of the dollar spectrum, there is New York
dealer James Cohan, who is presenting installations priced at
$10,000 to $400,000 by artists including Yinka Shonibare,
Trenton Doyle Hancock and Folkert de Jong.  “It’s important to show the best, and not necessarily the
most easily consumable,” said Cohan.  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Lindsay Pollock  in New York at  lindsaypollock@yahoo.com ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 