-- Philips Forecasts Full-Year Loss at Television Unit on Lower Prices
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2010-12-01T08:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/philips-forecasts-full-year-loss-at-television-unit-update1-.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV ,
Europe’s biggest maker of consumer electronics, said its
television business will post a full-year loss because of price
declines and a delay in a Chinese licensing agreement.  The division’s loss before interest, taxes and amortization
will total 2 percent to 3 percent of sales, with revenue
amounting to about 3 billion euros ($3.9 billion), the
Amsterdam-based company today said in a statement. The
manufacturer had forecast earlier that the unit would break
even. Philips maintained its companywide full-year forecast.  “High stock levels in retail and strong price erosion”
for television sets, along with an “unforeseen” postponement
in a brand-licensing agreement with TPV Technology in China will
cause the loss at the television business, the company said.  Philips said in October that it was “cautious” about
revenue development in fourth quarter, citing “patchy”
consumer sentiment. Revenue at the consumer-lifestyle division,
which makes electric shavers and televisions, was hurt by “weak
demand” in some markets in the third quarter.  Philips  rose  as much as 35 cents, or 1.7 percent, to 21.14
euros as of 9:12 a.m. in Amsterdam trading. The stock has gained
2.2 percent this year.  Licensing Production  The company has limited losses from television activities
by contracting out production to other companies, including
Osaka, Japan-based Funai Electric Co., covering the North
American market, and Videocon Industries Ltd. in India. Philips
said it expects to complete the planned agreement with TPV by
the end of this year.  “We will further strengthen our sector’s position in
emerging markets and will continue to take action to bring our
television business to profitability,”  Pieter Nota , head of the
consumer lifestyle division, said in the statement.  Philips said it’s sticking to a group forecast for earnings
before interest, taxes and amortization to significantly exceed
10 percent of sales. The outlook includes the loss at the
television division.  TV accounted for 37 percent of the  consumer lifestyle
division’s sales  in the 12 months through September, a decline
from 51 percent in 2000. TV operations generated 13 percent of
group sales compared with 25 percent in 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maud van Gaal  in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  