-- Philips Moves Domestic Appliances Headquarters to Shanghai in China Push
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2010-12-01T12:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/philips-moves-domestic-appliances-headquarters-to-shanghai-in-china-push.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV ,
Europe’s biggest maker of consumer electronics, will move the
headquarters of its domestic appliances business to Shanghai
early next year to spur revenue growth in China and the region.  “One of the first decisions I took was taking domestic
appliances’ leadership to Shanghai,” said  Pieter Nota , who two
months ago took over as head of the consumer lifestyle unit that
makes shavers, televisions and coffeemakers. “As we see the
center of gravity for growth in domestic appliances will be in
China and India, it makes sense to have the leadership in China
and have a leader from Asia.”  Philips in September set a target for earnings per share to
increase at twice the rate of sales until 2015 as the company
focuses on more profitable lighting and medical products and
faster growing markets including India and Brazil. The
Amsterdam-based company’s consumer lifestyle unit aims to expand
in skincare, domestic appliances and health-related products,
segments expected to grow faster than the economy.  “Spending power is set to explode, especially in China,”
Nota said at an investor event in Amsterdam today. Nota, who
took over from  Andrea Ragnetti , previously held marketing jobs
at  Beiersdorf AG  and Unilever Plc. in countries including the
U.K., Poland and Germany.  Philips shares  rose  2.9 percent to 21.40 euros at 1:49 p.m.
in Amsterdam, extending the gain this year to 3.5 percent. The
stock has still declined 3 percent since Nov. 26 after Chief
Financial Officer  Pierre-Jean Sivignon  unexpectedly announced
his resignation.  Middle Class  The urban middle class in emerging markets is growing by 12
percent annually, and is set to comprise more than  200 million
households  by 2015 while personal debt of consumers in those
regions is low compared with developed markets, Philips said.  The company, founded in the Netherlands in 1891 as a maker
of carbon-filament lamps, will step up the consumer lifestyle
unit’s investments in local marketing, design and innovation
capabilities in emerging markets, it said today. Philips aims to
get at least 40 percent of group sales from markets including
China, India and Brazil by 2015.  The domestic appliances business accounted for 17 percent
of consumer lifestyle sales in the 12 months through September.  Philips said in October it was “cautious” on revenue
development in the last three months of the year, citing an
unpredictable economy and “patchy” consumer sentiment. Revenue
at the consumer lifestyle division was hurt by “weak demand”
in some markets in the third quarter.  Full-Year Results  Third-quarter sales excluding acquisitions, disposals and
currency shifts fell 5 percent to 2.09 billion euros ($2.74
billion). The TV unit had a loss before interest, taxes and
amortization of 31 million euros.  Philips today said it expects full-year group earnings
before interest, taxes and amortization to “significantly
exceed” 10 percent of sales. The outlook includes a loss at the
TV division, which was earlier forecast to break even.  “Confirmation of the full-year targets despite a loss in
the TV business is somewhat positive,” said  Daniel Cunliffe , a
London-based analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. The
maintained outlook “does not change our view here: we still see
limited upside potential as headwinds build in Healthcare and
Consumer Lifestyle.”  The company today said predicted its TV business will post
a full-year loss because of price declines and a delay in a
Chinese licensing agreement.  Television Business  The division’s loss before interest, taxes and amortization
will total 2 percent to 3 percent of sales, with revenue
amounting to about 3 billion euros, Philips said in a statement
today. It previously forecast that the unit would break even.  “High stock levels in retail and strong price erosion”
for television sets, along with an unforeseen postponement in a
brand-licensing agreement with TPV Technology in China will
cause the loss at the television business, the company said.  Philips has limited losses from television activities by
contracting out production to other companies, including Osaka,
Japan-based Funai Electric Co., covering the North American
market, and Videocon Industries Ltd. in India. Philips said it
expects to complete the planned agreement with TPV by the end of
this year.  TV is forecast to be “above break-even” in 2011, helped
by the licensing agreements in India and China and cost cuts,
Nota said today.  TV accounted for 37 percent of the  consumer lifestyle
division’s sales  in the 12 months through September, a decline
from 51 percent in 2000. TV operations generated 13 percent of
group sales compared with 25 percent in 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maud van Gaal  in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  