-- Pimco, Magnetar Tapped Federal Reserve's TALF Program as Bond Sales Froze
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   R i c h a r d
-- 2010-12-02T00:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/pimco-magnetar-tapped-federal-reserve-s-talf-program-as-bond-sales-froze.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
manager of the world’s largest bond fund, was among firms that
tapped a Federal Reserve lending program aimed at restoring the
flow of credit to consumers and small businesses, according to
data released today by the New York arm of the central bank.  Pimco, based in Newport Beach, California, borrowed from
the government’s Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility 96
times between April 2009 and March 2010 for a total of $7.26
billion. FrontPoint Strategic Credit Investments LLC and
Magnetar Funding II LLC also turned to the program for cash. A
provision in the Dodd-Frank financial reform law passed in July
required the data about borrowing be made public.  Federal officials created TALF in November 2008 to allow
investors to borrow as much as 95 cents of every dollar they
held in Fed-approved asset-backed securities. The plan pumped
money into a market that bundles consumer, small business and
commercial real estate debt together into bonds for sale to
investors so lenders would make additional credit available. At
its peak, TALF’s outstanding loans totaled $42.5 billion.  “As of September 30, 2010, more than 60 percent of the
TALF loans have been repaid in full, with interest, ahead of
their legal maturity dates,” the Fed said in a statement
accompanying the TALF data. “All loans that have not been
repaid in full early are current in their payments of principal
and interest and no collateral has been surrendered in lieu of
repayment.”  Collateral Option  Participants had the option of turning the securities they
used as collateral over to the Fed if the value of the
investments fell.  Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for Pimco, didn’t return a
call seeking comment.  Magnetar Capital LLC, the hedge fund which profited from
bets against mortgage securities during the financial collapse,
participated in the program through Magnetar Funding II, which
borrowed about $1.05 billion through seven TALF transactions.  “Magnetar participated in the program on the same terms as
the hundreds of other participants in the TALF program, by
Magnetar providing ‘first loss’ risk capital in these markets,”
 Steven Lipin , a spokesman for the Evanston, Illinois-based firm,
said in an e-mail.  FrontPoint Partners, a hedge fund unit of New York-based
Morgan Stanley, used the facility 48 times through its
FrontPoint Strategic Credit Investments for a total of $1.09
billion.  Support The Government  “On behalf of clients, FrontPoint was an early participant
in the government TALF program,”  Steve Bruce , a spokesman for
the firm said in an e-mailed statement. “With our clients, we
were able to support the government in this important
initiative.”  The California Public Employees’ Retirement System borrowed
at least $5.4 billion under the program. The pension fund then
invested in securities backed by Citibank Inc. credit card
receivables.  The Fed started TALF in part to provide low-cost funding
for investors who wanted to buy asset-backed securities.  Ellen Hughes-Cromwick , Ford Motor Co.’s chief economist, cited the
program for helping revive auto sales.  AAA rated bonds backed by automobile loans and maturing in
three years were trading at yields of 600 basis points more than
the London interbank offered rate when the Fed created TALF. The
spread was up from 90 basis points, 0.9 percentage points, at
the beginning of that year.  The government expanded the program in February 2009 to
allow investors to use the money to purchase commercial
mortgage-backed bonds packaged before the financial crisis. The
securities could be bought in the secondary market as long as
the buyer obtained them through an arm’s-length transaction with
an unrelated seller, according to the New York Fed’s Web site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Richard  in New York at 
 crichard5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  