-- PineBridge Investments Plans $480 Million CLO in First Since AIG Spinoff
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2010-12-01T20:43:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/pinebridge-investments-plans-480-million-clo-in-first-since-aig-spinoff.html
PineBridge Investments is in the
market with a collateralized loan obligation targeted at about
$480 million, according to three people familiar with the
discussions.  It is the first CLO from the manager since it completed its
separation from  American International Group Inc.  in March.
PineBridge will manage the fund that is being created from a
group of loans held by a separate investor, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the terms are private.  The market for CLOs is beginning to open with $2.6 billion
of deals backed by widely syndicated loans completed this year.
The market had $91.1 billion of issuance at its peak in 2007,
according to Morgan Stanley data. GSO Capital Partners LP, the
credit investment arm of Blackstone Group LP, Oak Hill Advisors
LP and WCAS Fraser Sullivan Investment Management LLC are all in
the market raising funds.  CLOs are a type of collateralized debt obligation that pool
high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into securities of
varying risk and return.  The fund, Plymouth Rock CLO, is split between a $298
million piece rated AAA by Standard & Poor’s and a $92 million
slice graded BBB+, according to an S&P report that didn’t name
the manager or purpose of the deal. The CLO also includes a
$90.36 million piece of preferred shares. It may price as early
as this week, one of the people said. Bank of America Corp. is
arranging the sale.  The private investment firm Pacific Century Group purchased
PineBridge from AIG. New York-based PineBridge has $83 billion
in assets under management, which includes $5.5 billion in
leveraged loans, as of Sept. 30, according to its  website .  Astrid Egerton-Vernon, a spokeswoman for PineBridge, and
Danielle Robinson, a Bank of America spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  