-- Poland Faces Highest Yield in Seven Months at Auction on Europe's Crisis
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-12-01T09:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/poland-faces-higher-borrowing-costs-at-2-year-bond-sale-on-europe-crisis.html
Poland faces the highest borrowing
costs in at least seven months at today’s bond auction as the
Europe Union’s worsening debt crisis drives investors from the
newest member states.  Poland will offer as much as 4 billion zloty ($1.28
billion) of notes maturing in January 2013, the Finance Ministry
said. The yield is likely to be at least 4.8 percent, according
to predictions from analysts at PKO Bank Polski SA, ING Bank
Slaski SA, Societe Generale SA, Bank Handlowy SA, a unit of
Citigroup Inc., and Pekao SA. That compares with 4.595 percent
at the previous sale of two-year notes on Oct. 6 and would be
the highest since May 5, when the yield was 4.802 percent.  The government abandoned initial plans to offer five-year
bonds in today’s auction as  yields  surged to the highest level
since February. It earlier postponed a sale of yen-denominated
debt set for this year because of the “volatile debt market.”
The zloty tumbled to the lowest level in more than four months
this week as an 85 billion-euro ($111 billion) rescue package
for Ireland failed to halt a decline in Portuguese, Spanish and
Hungarian bonds.  “The situation in Europe is casting a pall over the entire
market although the shorter end has suffered the least,” said
 Miroslaw Budzicki , a Warsaw-based analyst at PKO. “It’s no
wonder that the ministry decided against the five-year debt
because this bond may not have found the buyers in this
environment.”  Projections  PKO predicts an average yield between 4.82 percent and 4.83
percent, while ING Bank Slaski sees it in a 4.80 percent to 4.83
percent range. Societe Generale projects it will reach 4.81
percent and Bank Handlowy expects a yield of about 4.80 percent.
Bank Pekao forecasts a 4.85 percent yield. All of the banks
surveyed are among 12 primary dealers at the Finance Ministry’s
debt auctions.  The yield on the country’s  five-year bonds  rose 33 basis
points to 5.54 percent in November, or triple the 11 basis-point
increase for  two-year debt  to 4.89 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  International investors have raised their holdings of
shorter-dated debt in November and “slightly reduced” their
positions in longer maturities,  Piotr Marczak , the head of the
Finance Ministry’s public debt department, wrote in a e-mailed
response to questions from Bloomberg News on Nov. 29. He cited
“reduced expectations” for rate increases as a reason for a
shift in investors’ preference.  ‘Modest’  “Given recent global sentiment and the approaching of the
year-end, we expect demand from international investors to be
modest” at the auction,  Esther Law , senior emerging-market
strategist at Societe Generale in London, wrote in a note to
clients today.  International investors didn’t augment their holdings of
Polish domestic bonds in October for the first time since March,
according to Marczak. They bought a total of 44.9 billion zloty
of bonds in the first 10 months of the year.  The central bank left the  main interest rate  at a record
low for a 17th month at the meeting on Nov. 23. The likelihood
of a change faded as core inflation, which excludes food and
fuel prices, remained at a 34-month low and council member
 Andrzej Bratkowski  said before the meeting it was “too late”
for a preemptive move. He voted for a 50 basis-point increase at
the meeting in August.  Inflation  Adam Glapinski , another central banker who previously
supported a rate rise, was quoted by PAP newswire on Nov. 26 as
saying that a strong zloty “acts stronger and faster” in
fighting inflation than interest-rate changes. Three-month
forward-rate agreements, contracts used by investors to bet on
changes in interest rates, dropped to 4.19 percent today from as
high as 4.32 percent on Nov. 12. The contracts are trading 31
basis points above the three- month Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate 
of 3.88 percent.  Poland’s  annual inflation  rate probably held steady at a
nine-month high of 2.8 percent in November, the Finance Ministry
said in an e-mailed estimate today. The country’s manufacturing
industry grew for a fourth month in November as new orders grew
the fastest since May 2004, HSBC Holdings Plc said today. A
report yesterday showed the  economy  expanded at an annual rate
of 4.2 percent in the third quarter, the fastest pace in two
years.  “People are searching for a safe haven and find it in the
two-year segment especially after interest rate expectations
have shifted to next year,” said  Arkadiusz Urbanski , an analyst
at Bank Pekao SA.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  