-- Portugal Borrowing Costs, Demand Rise at Bill Auction on Bailout Concern
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-12-01T12:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/portugal-borrowing-costs-demand-rise-at-bill-auction-on-bailout-concern.html
Portugal’s borrowing costs increased
at an auction of 500 million euros ($655 million) of 12-month
bills today amid mounting concern the nation may follow Ireland
in asking for a bailout.  The securities, due Nov. 18, were issued today at an
average yield of 5.281 percent, the country’s debt management
agency said. That compares with an average yield of 4.813
percent at a previous sale of 12-month bills on Nov. 17. The
auction attracted bids for 2.5 times the amount offered,
compared with a bid-to-cover ratio of 1.8 in November. The
agency had set an indicative amount of 500 million euros for the
auction.  “Yields are at levels that the market is viewing as
unsustainable,” said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist
at Commerzbank AG in a telephone interview today. “This should
in the end increase the pressure for Portugal to go for a
bailout.”  Standard & Poor’s warned yesterday it may cut Portugal’s
credit rating on concern the country may have to seek a bailout
as the contagion from Europe’s sovereign debt crisis spreads
through the region.  Portugal has all the conditions to continue to finance
itself in the market, Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  said Nov. 26.
Portugal has completed this year’s bond sales and doesn’t face a
redemption until April.  The spread on Portugal’s 10-year bonds over German bunds
was at 405 basis points today, after hitting a euro-era record
of 484 basis points on Nov. 11.  Budget Gap  Portugal plans to cut state workers’ wages and raise taxes
to convince investors it can narrow the euro region’s fourth-
biggest budget gap after Greece’s debt crisis led to a surge in
borrowing costs for high-deficit nations. Ireland on Nov. 21
became the second euro country after Greece to seek a bailout.  The planned spending cuts for next year are set to be the
biggest since at least 1978, according to EU statistics office
Eurostat. The austerity measures may hurt Portugal’s  economic
growth , which has averaged less than 1 percent a year in the
past decade.  The government is counting on exports such as paper and
wood products to support expansion. The budget forecasts GDP
growth of 0.2 percent in 2011, slower than this year’s estimated
1.3 percent pace.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anabela Reis  in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  