-- Postbank Agrees to Sell Indian Unit to Dewan-Led Group for $238 Million
-- B y   J a n n   B e t t i n g a
-- 2010-12-01T16:47:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/postbank-plans-to-sell-indian-mortgage-lending-subsidiary-to-dewan-housing.html
Deutsche Postbank AG , the German
lender being acquired by  Deutsche Bank AG , agreed to sell its
Indian mortgage-lending unit to a group led by  Dewan Housing
Finance Ltd.  for as much as 10.8 billion rupees ($238 million).  The Bonn-based lender will sell its Deutsche Postbank Home
Finance Ltd. division for 10.5 billion rupees to 10.8 billion
rupees, Postbank said in a statement distributed by the DGAP
newswire today. The deal is expected to boost net income by a
“mid-double-digit million-euro” amount, the German bank said.  The purchase will increase Dewan’s outstanding loans by
more than 40 percent, helping narrow the gap with larger rivals
including Housing Development Finance Corp. Postbank is selling
the unit to focus on German retail lending, its main business.  The disposal is scheduled to close in the first quarter of
2011, subject to approval by the National Housing Bank, India’s
supervisory authority, Postbank said today.  New Delhi-based Deutsche Postbank Home Finance had
outstanding loans of 48 billion rupees as of Sept. 30, and
profit of 390 million rupees for the previous six months, Crisil
Ltd., the Indian arm of Standard & Poor’s, said Oct. 21. The
unit has a market share of 1.5 percent to 2 percent, it said.  Dewan Housing posted a profit of 1.09 billion rupees for
the six months ended Sept. 30, while its outstanding loan book
was at 111.45 billion rupees, according to an  investor
presentation  on its website.  Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank said this week that it raised
its stake in Postbank to about 52 percent following an offer to
buy shares from minority investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jann Bettinga  in Frankfurt at 
 jbettinga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 