-- Power Shortage in Poland Drives Prices Above Germany's: Energy Markets
-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i   a n d   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 2010-12-01T17:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/power-shortage-across-poland-drives-prices-above-germany-s-energy-markets.html
Poland’s electricity is becoming more
expensive than Germany’s as the country fails to build enough
plants to meet demand, threatening to make eastern Europe’s
biggest economy dependent on power imports.  Prices in  Poland  traded as much as 2.47 euros ($3.25) a
megawatt-hour higher than in Germany on Nov. 8, the biggest
premium since April, compared with an average discount of 1.42
euros this year, according to broker data on Bloomberg. The
next-year contract traded above its western neighbor’s on 32 of
the past 40 days, the data show.  An economy growing at more than twice the euro-region
average, coupled with power-plant construction that’s lagging
behind demand, is bolstering Polish prices, increasing its
attraction for exporters. At the same time Germany is facing an
electricity glut that may deepen until 2013 as it builds solar
and wind plants to meet pollution targets, according to UBS AG.  “Poland is an island in Europe because it doesn’t have
overcapacity,” said  Pawel Smolen , the Berlin-based head of
strategy for Vattenfall Europe AG, a unit of the Nordic region’s
biggest utility. The global economic “crisis has not curbed
demand and as a result the country may face capacity shortages
given a lack of advanced investment projects,” he said.  Polish power for delivery next year traded at 193 zloty
(49.07 euros) a megawatt-hour on Nov. 8, when the comparable
German contract was 46.60 euros a megawatt-hour, according to
broker data. Bloomberg tracks power prices from brokers
including GFI Group Inc., ICAP Plc and Spectron Group Ltd.
German electricity was 22 euro cents more expensive on Nov. 25.  Polish Power Rising  Electricity demand in Poland jumped 4.2 percent in the
first 10 months of this year, compared with the same period in
2009, according to PSE Operator SA, the Konstancin-Jeziorna-
based grid operator. Demand will keep increasing in 2011, Fitch
Ratings said at a Nov. 15 presentation in Warsaw.  Polish exports of electricity to Germany, Sweden, the Czech
Republic and Slovakia fell 40 percent between 2006 and 2009,
according to PSE. Imports from the same countries rose 55
percent in the same period.  Poland will build 860 megawatts of lignite coal-fired
capacity next year and decommission 206 megawatts, according to
data from PSE and  PGE SA , the country’s largest utility. No new
hard coal or gas-fired plants are scheduled to come online
before 2014, while PGE plans to decommission a further 412
megawatts by 2013, the Warsaw-based company said in October
2009.  Aging Plants  Seventy percent of Poland’s coal-fired power plants are
more than 30 years old, according to  Krzysztof Zmijewski , an
adviser to the Polish government and former chief executive
officer of PSE.  “In the long run, Polish power prices will be rising as
new capacity won’t come on line as fast as demand is likely to
grow,” said  Michal Czaplinski , a power trader at GDF Suez SA in
Brussels. “In the short run, the spread may keep shifting from
negative to positive given the high volatility of German prices
and the relatively stable Polish prices,” he said by e-mail.  Poland, the only European Union country not to slide into
recession in 2009, said yesterday that  gross domestic product 
grew 4.2 percent in the third quarter, the fastest pace in two
years. That compares with 1.9 percent for the 16-member euro
region. The zloty strengthened 2.8 percent versus the euro in
the six months through the end of October, boosting the
country’s power prices when converted into the single currency.  German Renewables  Germany is building more power plants even as it closes
some of its oldest facilities to counter excess supply, Deutsche
Bank AG analysts including Paris-based  Mark Lewis  and London-
based  Martin Brough  said in a Nov. 17 report. The nation may
start 39,000 megawatts of fossil-burning plants and renewable
energy units by 2014 to 2015, while closing more than 20,000
megawatts of coal and natural gas-fired plants, they said.  “In the next two to three years German power prices may
not be rising given new capacity that will come on line,
sluggish power demand and the extension of life span for nuclear
power plants,” Jacek Kawalczewski, associate director at Fitch
Ratings, said in an interview in Warsaw on Nov. 15.  Profits that E.ON AG and RWE AG get at coal-fired power
plants in Germany have fallen to the lowest level since at least
September 2007, when taking into account the price of power,
fuel and emissions costs in 2011. The return was  2.16  euros a
megawatt-hour today, compared with an average of 6.77 euros in
the past year.  ‘Suffering From Overcapacity’  “Germany, along with other markets in northern Europe, is
suffering from overcapacity, while demand still hasn’t
recovered,” said Smolen at Vattenfall. “As a result, margins
on power generation are either low or sometimes negative” in
Germany, he said.  The Polish government and EU haven’t yet agreed on how many
carbon emission permits generators will need to buy if they
build new plants, creating another risk for local investment in
capacity.  Under the EU’s Emission Trading System, Poland’s old and
inefficient power plants get permits for free, and will keep
benefitting from them after 2012. New units that could emit less
carbon will be barred from free allowances.  “There’s a concern that subsidized output from old
generators will be cheaper than electricity from new plants,
which as a result will be producing less and their economics
will suffer,” Smolen said. “In consequence, investment
projects are too uncertain and don’t get completed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  