-- Premji Pledges $2 Billion of Wipro Shares to Charity
-- B y   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2010-12-02T11:22:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/premji-pledges-1-95-billion-wipro-stake-to-charity-update1-.html
Azim Premji , chairman of  Wipro Ltd. ,
plans to transfer shares valued at 90.7 billion rupees ($2
billion) to a trust and use the dividends to fund philanthropic
work in India.  Premji, ranked the third-richest Indian with a net worth of
$17.6 billion by Forbes India in September, will transfer 213
million shares to an “irrevocable trust,” Wipro said in a
statement to the Bombay Stock Exchange yesterday. The transfer
will be completed by Dec. 7, the company said.  Premji is increasing his social and not-for-profit
activities amid a call by  Warren Buffett  to fellow billionaires
to give more of their wealth to charity. Premji’s trust is
expected to increase its work “significantly” over the next
few years, according to India’s third-largest software exporter.
The trust may get 852 million rupees in dividend next year,
 Bloomberg Dividend Forecast  shows.  “The annual dividend is a good sum and sufficient enough
to run the yearly operations,” said Sachin Mulay, a spokesman
for Wipro. The money will be used to run the Azim Premji
Foundation and the Azim Premji University, he said.  Buffett said in August that he will hold more dinners in
the U.S. to encourage fellow billionaires to pledge part of
their fortunes to charity. He’ll also ask wealthy Chinese and
Indian businesspeople to give some of their money away as part
of the Giving Pledge, he had said.  Reducing Poverty  The chief executive of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. , whose
fortune was estimated by Forbes magazine at about $45 billion,
has pledged to donate the bulk of his wealth to the Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation, the world’s largest philanthropic
organization, with goals including the reduction of poverty and
disease and the improvement of U.S. education.  Gates said in Beijing Sept. 30 he may attend a philanthropy
event in India in 2011. Indians gave away about $7.5 billion to
charity last year, according to a March report by Bain & Co.,
compared with $300 billion contributed by the U.S. in 2009.  The Tata Group, India’s biggest with businesses from power
generation to car manufacturing, and its related philanthropies
donated $50 million in October to Harvard Business School to
fund a new academic and residential building in Boston for
executive-education programs.  Elementary Education  The  Azim Premji Foundation , set up in 2001, works to
promote elementary education in rural areas where a majority of
the 1.3 million government-run schools are located, the group’s
website says. The foundation employs a team of 200 professionals
and several hundred paid volunteers.  Premji will continue to retain voting rights on the shares
held in the trust, Wipro said. The 213 million shares constitute
8.7 percent of Bangalore-based Wipro’s equity.  Wipro  has risen 4.4 percent this year, lagging behind the
14.5 percent advance in the Bombay Stock Exchange’s benchmark
 Sensitive Index . The stock climbed 2.7 percent to 426.05 rupees
in Mumbai today.  The company paid a dividend of 3.59 rupees a share this
year and may pay 4 rupees apiece for the year ending March 31,
according to Bloomberg Dividend Forecast.  Premji and his family own 79.52 percent of Wipro, according
to the company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net ;
 Anoop Agrawal  in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  