-- Putin Dismisses Gates Criticism of Russian Democracy in WikiLeaks Release
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2010-12-02T06:04:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/putin-warns-u-s-of-potential-russian-nuclear-buildup-update1-.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin 
dismissed U.S. criticism from leaked State Department memos,
saying America should examine its own democratic institutions
before questioning others.  Putin said in an interview with CNN’s  Larry King  last night
that Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  had been “badly misled,”
in his assessment of Russian democracy. He also said some U.S.
presidents received fewer popular votes than their opponents,
taking office after winning a majority in the Electoral College,
where votes are allocated by state.  “When we are talking with our American friends and tell
them there are systematic problems” in the U.S., “we can hear
from them, ‘Don’t interfere in our affairs,’” Putin said. “To
our colleagues I would also like to advise you, don’t interfere
either with the sovereign choice of the Russian people.”  WikiLeaks.org this week released a  diplomatic cable  in
which Gates was cited as saying “Russian democracy has
disappeared, and the government was an oligarchy run by the
security services.” Putin served as president for eight years
before becoming prime minister in 2008, when legal limits
prevented him from running for a third consecutive term.  Putin, 58, and his successor,  Dmitry Medvedev , haven’t said
which man will run for the presidency in 2012. “We’ll see,”
Putin told King. “There is still quite some time before the
elections take place.”  He said attempts to split his relationship with Medvedev
were futile, saying his understanding with the president foresaw
such actions back in 2008.  ‘Aimed to Slander’  Such commentary is “aimed to slander one of us, to get
under the skin, to provoke some steps which might destroy the
productive interaction in running this country,” Putin said.
“We’ll get used to it.”  Putin also said it would be “very dumb” for the U.S. to
ignore its own interests by placing a missile-defense system
near Russia’s borders, because it would necessitate his country
to respond in kind, not an action Russia wants to take, Putin
said. He reiterated Medvedev’s warning that Russia will have to
arm itself against “new threats” if the U.S. and its European
allies build the system without Russian participation.  “We have been told that you’ll do it in order to secure
you against the, let’s say, Iranian nuclear threat,” Putin said.
“But such a threat, as of now, doesn’t exist.”  Missile Shield  At the NATO summit in Lisbon last month, Russia offered to
take part in a missile shield with the trans-Atlantic military
alliance, though it insisted on being an equal partner.  Barack Obama  in September 2009 canceled former President
 George W. Bush ’s proposed missile shield in Poland and the Czech
Republic in favor of a more flexible solution that opened the
door to revisit Russian proposals for a joint system.  Still, the U.S. deployed Patriot missile batteries and
their crews to northern Poland in May for what the U.S. Army
described as a two-year training mission. Russia’s Foreign
Ministry said at the time that the deployment wouldn’t improve
security or help build relations in the region.  The Wall Street Journal two days ago cited unidentified U.S.
officials as saying Russia had moved short-range tactical
nuclear weapons closer to the borders of NATO member states as
recently as this spring.  General  Nikolai Makarov , head of Russia’s general Staff,
denied the report. “This is a fairy tale,” he told reporters
in Moscow yesterday.  START Treaty  Obama has appealed for the Senate to ratify a new Strategic
Arms Reduction Treaty that he and Medvedev signed in April to
improve security relations. The treaty has run into opposition
in the upper house since Republicans won more seats in mid-term
elections.  Arizona Senator  Jon Kyl , the chamber’s second-ranking
Republican and one of his party’s leading voices on nuclear-
weapons policy, said on Nov. 16 that pressing business wouldn’t
allow full consideration before year’s end of “the complex and
unresolved issues related to START.”  The treaty limits each side’s strategic warheads to no more
than 1,550, down from the 2,200 allowed previously, and sets a
maximum of 800 land-, air- and sea-based launchers.  WikiLeaks, a nonprofit group that releases information the
government wants to keep confidential, has begun releasing what
it says are more than 250,000 U.S. State Department documents
written from December 1966 to February 2010.  State Department spokeswoman  Nicole Thompson  earlier this
week declined to confirm any information in the documents
released by WikiLeaks, saying it was the agency’s policy not to
comment on specific leaked materials.  Separately, Putin said he believes “a right mode of
speech” must be chosen to deal with tensions on the Korea
peninsula and that not all the responsibility for easing it is
on China.  The U.S. is holding joint military exercises with Japan and
South Korea this week after North Korea’s deadly artillery
shelling of its southern neighbor last month. The tensions
between the two Koreas threatened to escalate, with neither side,
nor Japan willing to enter talks.  “Emotions will be shelved and dialogue will be started,”
Putin said. “Russia is interested in the continuation of a
dialogue” that existed prior to the recent tension. “We all
need to do whatever it takes in order for this situation to be
on track of normalcy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  