-- TransDigm Doubles Debt Sale as Junk Issuance Plummets
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2010-12-01T22:32:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/transdigm-group-doubles-acquisition-financing-as-junk-rated-issuance-drops.html
TransDigm Group Inc. , the aircraft-
components manufacturer that’s buying rival supplier McKechnie
Aerospace Holdings Inc., almost doubled the size of its debt
offering even as speculative-grade issuance drops.  The company today sold $1.55 billion of senior subordinated
notes due 2018, up from $780 million marketed earlier, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Proceeds from the offering and a
term loan boosted to $1.55 billion will help finance the
acquisition of McKechnie, refinance debt and add cash to the
Cleveland-based company’s  balance sheet .  TransDigm was able take advantage of investor demand and
increase the amount of its borrowings even as junk bonds and
leveraged loans drop from near 2010 highs on Nov. 9 amid concern
that Ireland’s debt crisis will spread across Europe and lead to
a reduction in risk appetite. High-yield, high-risk bond
issuance has declined from $11.6 billion for the week ended Nov.
12 to $1.56 billion last week, and has totaled $240 million this
week, Bloomberg data show.  “It’s a business that’s got good cash flow, and that’s
part of the reason there was still a lot of strong demand,”
said  Terrence Dwyer , an analyst with KDP Investment Advisors
Inc. in Montpelier, Vermont. “It has terrific operating
margins.”  Junk bonds lost 2.08 percent since year-to-date returns
peaked Nov. 9, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s US
High Yield Master II Index, while the S&P/ LSTA U.S. Leveraged
Loan 100 Index  declined 0.87 percent from near its 2010 peak.  High-risk, high-yield debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  Ireland Aid  Ireland’s decision to request emergency aid from the
European Union and the International Monetary Fund lessened the
volume of speculative-grade offerings in recent weeks, according
to  Chris Towle , a portfolio manager at Lord Abbett & Co. in
Jersey City, New Jersey.  “You had an overhang of ‘should I or should I not be
worried by European sovereigns, should I reduce risk based on
European headlines,’” said Towle. “Those who were skeptical
about Greece and ignored the risk faced a correction in May, so
people were wondering if investors would reduce risk appetite
again.”  TransDigm said Sept. 27 that it agreed to purchase
McKechnie of Irvine, California for $1.27 billion. The company
initially sought to raise $1.98 billion in bonds and loans,
which was increased to $3.4 billion yesterday, TransDigm said in
a regulatory filing today.  Transdigm Rates  Transdigm’s 7.75 percent notes pay 526 basis points more
than similar security Treasuries, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Credit Suisse Group AG and UBS AG are arranging the $1.55
billion term loan with an interest rate 3.5 percentage points
more than the London interbank offered rate.  The company previously sought a $900 million term loan with
a margin of 3.75 percentage points to 4 percentage points more
than Libor, the rate banks charge to lend to each other. The
lending benchmark has a 1.5 percent floor, which is unchanged.  Transdigm will issue the loan at a discount of 99.5 cents
on the dollar. The so-called original-issue discount, which
reduces proceeds for the borrower and boosts the yield for
investors, was previously set at 99 cents.  “They are about 6.1 times leveraged now, they have a
considerable amount of debt relative to their ability to service
it through cash flow, and the higher that ratio is, the harder
it will be for them to service that debt,” KDP’s Dwyer said
today in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Boris Korby  in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
Emre Peker in New York at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 