-- RBS Group, Emirates NBD Said to Lead Dubai Group Debt Restructuring Talks
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2010-12-01T12:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/rbs-emirates-nbd-said-to-lead-dubai-group-restructuring-talks.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and
 Emirates NBD PJSC  will lead a group of banks in negotiations
with Dubai Group LLC on the investment company’s $6 billion debt
restructuring, two people with knowledge of the plan said.  The remaining members of a committee that will hold talks
on behalf of all lenders still have to be chosen, the people
said, declining to be identified because the talks are private.
An official at Dubai Group declined to comment. Spokesmen for
British government-owned Royal Bank of Scotland and Dubai-based
Emirates NBD, the United Arab Emirates’ biggest bank by assets,
also declined to comment.  Dubai Group is an investment company controlled by Dubai
Holding LLC, a property, hospitality and investment group owned
by Dubai ruler  Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum.  The
company owns stakes in Kuala Lumpur-based Bank Islam Malaysia
Bhd and Cyprus’s second-biggest lender, Marfin Popular Bank Pcl.  Dubai Group missed interest payments in recent weeks on a
$330 million loan raised in 2007 to fund an acquisition and on a
$1.5 billion Islamic loan it negotiated in 2008 to refinance
debt, two bankers with knowledge of the matter said. Reuters
reported the news Nov. 11.  Lenders are rolling over facilities during the
restructuring negotiations, a company spokeswoman said today.  Dubai International Capital LLC, an investment company
owned by Dubai Holding, is also in talks to restructure $2.6
billion of loans. Dubai Holding Commercial Operations Group LLC,
another group company, received a one-month extension on a $555
million revolving credit line to get more time to agree on new
terms, the company said in a statement to Nasdaq Dubai today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  