-- Treasuries Snap Three-Day Gain on Speculation U.S. Manufacturing Expanded
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-12-01T06:59:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/treasuries-snap-three-day-gain-on-speculation-u-s-manufacturing-expanded.html
Treasuries snapped a three-day gain
before industry reports that economists said will show U.S.
manufacturing expanded for a 16th month and companies added the
most jobs since the recession began in December 2007.  The Federal Reserve is scheduled to buy $7 billion to $9
billion of notes maturing from 2016 to 2017 today as part of its
plan to spur growth, according to its  website . European debt
concerns that spurred demand for the relative safety of U.S.
bonds may fade soon, according to ICAP Australia Ltd., a unit of
the world’s largest interdealer broker.  “Investing in Treasuries now is a risk,” said  Tsutomu Komiya , who handles U.S. debt in Tokyo for Daiwa Asset
Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of $102.9 billion
and is part of Japan’s second-biggest brokerage. “The U.S.
economy is gradually picking up. That will continue in 2011.”  The benchmark 10-year yield was little changed at 2.80
percent as of 6:49 a.m. in London, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The 2.625 percent security due in November 2020
traded at a price of 98 1/2. The yield will rise to 2.90 percent
by year-end, Komiya said.  Ten-year rates will advance to 3.23 percent by the close of
2011, according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and securities
companies with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest
weightings. Investors who bought today would lose about 0.2
percent after accounting for interest payments, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Manufacturing Expands  The Institute for Supply Management’s  factory index  will be
56.5 in November versus 56.9 in October, based on the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Figures
greater than 50 signal growth.  Dow Chemical Co. , the world’s
second-biggest chemical company, said yesterday that fourth-
quarter sales are matching those in the preceding three months,
led by demand for materials used in electronics.  ADP Employer Services will say employment rose by 70,000 in
November, a separate Bloomberg survey showed. The Labor
Department will report on Dec. 3 that employers added jobs for a
second month, economists said.  Treasuries rose yesterday on speculation Ireland’s funding
crisis will spread to Portugal and Spain.  Ireland on Nov. 28 became the second country to tap
European assistance, following Greece. The Irish rescue package
is worth 85 billion euros ($110.8 billion).  “Investors are worried that there is more to come,”  Kevin Giddis , president of fixed-income capital markets at the
brokerage firm Morgan Keegan Inc. in Memphis, Tennessee, wrote
in a note to clients.  Default Protection  The cost of insuring Ireland’s debt using credit-default
swaps rose to a record 6.04 percentage points yesterday,
according to CMA prices. Swaps covering Italy, Spain, and
Portugal also climbed to the most ever.  The contracts protect debt against default, and traders use
them to speculate on credit quality. An increase suggests
deteriorating perceptions of creditworthiness and a drop shows
improvement. They pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt agreements.  Standard & Poor’s said yesterday it may cut Portugal’s
credit ratings on concern the government has made little
progress on boosting economic growth.  Demand for safety is showing up in the widening two-year
interest-rate-swap spread. The  gap  expanded to 31 basis points,
the most in four months.  In this transaction, investors exchange fixed and floating
interest rates. The spread is the difference between the fixed
rate and the yield on similar-maturity Treasuries. Because the
figure compares a bank rate with a government yield, it is used
as a gauge of risk appetite.  Libor Rises  Banks are charging more to lend to each other. The three-
month London interbank  offered rate  for dollars rose to 0.30
percent yesterday, the most since August.  Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
biggest bond fund, said today that debt is attractive.  “In a low growth environment, global bonds are a
compelling investment option,” according to a press release
from Pimco, which is based in Newport Beach, California.  U.S. government securities handed investors a 0.7 percent
loss last month, the most since March based on Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes, as the Fed embarked on a plan to pump
$600 billion into the banking system.  Europe’s debt concerns will fade soon, according to  Adam Carr , a senior economist at ICAP in Sydney.  “This issue will die down,” Carr wrote to clients today.
“Things will fizzle out. The U.S. economy is doin’ just fine.”  Demand for safety helped pull 10-year yields down 16 basis
points from their highest level in November.  “It is interesting how little help a burgeoning sovereign
debt crisis lent to the rates markets,” analysts including
 George Goncalves  at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York, wrote in a
research note yesterday. “This only added more evidence to our
assertion that the rates market may already be fully priced,”
said Nomura, which is one of the 18 primary dealers that are
required to bid at the government debt sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 