-- Treasuries Drop Amid Speculation ECB Will Halt Crisis, Economy Will Grow
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-12-01T12:09:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/treasuries-drop-amid-speculation-ecb-will-halt-crisis-economy-will-grow.html
Treasuries fell as speculation the
European Central Bank may take additional steps to prevent the
euro region’s debt crisis from spreading diminished the appeal
of U.S. securities as a haven.  The 10-year note fell for the first day in four before
reports that economists said will show U.S. manufacturing
expanded for a 16th month and companies added the most jobs
since the recession began in December 2007. The declines pushed
the yield on the 10-year note higher after reaching its lowest
level in a week yesterday. The Federal Reserve is scheduled to
buy $7 billion to $9 billion of notes maturing from June 2016 to
November 2017 today as part of its plan to spur growth.  “Treasuries are losing some of their safe-haven appeal,”
said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at Monument
Securities Ltd. in London. “Yields reached levels yesterday
which are frankly unattractive. Labor data this week may decide
if this correction in Treasuries continues.”  The benchmark 10-year yield rose six basis points to 2.87
percent at 6:57 a.m. in New York, according to BC Cantor Market
Data. The yield fell to 2.75 percent yesterday, the lowest level
since Nov. 23. The 2.625 percent security due in November 2020
fell 16/32, or $5 per $1,000 face amount, to 97 30/32.  The 30-year bond yield climbed five basis points to 4.16
percent. It fell to 4.05 percent yesterday, the lowest level
since Nov. 5.  Ten-year rates will rise to 3.23 percent by the end of
2011, according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and securities
companies with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest
weightings. Investors who bought today would lose about 0.2
percent after accounting for interest payments, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Manufacturing Expands  The Institute for Supply Management’s  factory index  will be
56.5 in November versus 56.9 in October, based on the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Figures above
50 signal growth.  “A strong ISM number will give investors hope the economic
recovery is on track,” Ostwald said.  ADP Employer Services will say employment rose by 70,000
in November, a separate Bloomberg survey showed. The Labor
Department will report on Dec. 3 that employers added jobs for a
second month, economists said.  Treasuries rose yesterday on speculation Ireland’s funding
crisis will spread to Portugal and Spain. Ireland on Nov. 28
became the second country to tap European assistance, following
Greece. The Irish rescue package is worth 85 billion euros ($111
billion).  Trichet Remarks  Standard & Poor’s said yesterday it may cut Portugal’s
credit ratings on concern the government has made little
progress on boosting economic growth. Portugal’s borrowing costs
increased at an auction today.  “Investors are worried that there is more to come,”  Kevin Giddis , president of fixed-income capital markets at the
brokerage firm Morgan Keegan Inc. in Memphis, Tennessee, wrote
in a note to clients.  ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet yesterday said the
central bank’s bond-buying program is “ongoing” and “we will
see what we decide,” refusing to rule out an expansion of
purchases. His remarks helped lift the euro today.  Europe’s debt crisis will “die down” soon,  Adam Carr , a
senior economist at ICAP in Sydney, wrote to clients today.
“Things will fizzle out. The U.S. economy is doin’ just fine.”  Demand for safety helped pull 10-year yields down 16 basis
points from their highest level in November.  “It is interesting how little help a burgeoning sovereign-
debt crisis lent to the rates markets,” analysts including
 George Goncalves  at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York wrote in a
research note yesterday. “This only added more evidence to our
assertion that the rates market may already be fully priced.”
Nomura is one of the 18 primary dealers that are required to bid
at the government debt sales.  Swap Spread  Demand for safety is showing up in the widening two-year
interest-rate-swap spread. The  gap  expanded to 31 basis points,
the most in four months. In this transaction, investors exchange
fixed and floating interest rates. The spread is the difference
between the fixed rate and the yield on similar-maturity
Treasuries. Because the figure compares a bank rate with a
government yield, it is used as a gauge of risk appetite.  Banks are charging more to lend to each other. The three-
month London interbank  offered rate  for dollars rose to 0.30
percent yesterday, the most since August. Pacific Investment
Management Co., which runs the world’s biggest bond fund, said
today that debt is attractive.  “In a low-growth environment, global bonds are a
compelling investment option,” according to a press release
from Pimco, which is based in Newport Beach, California.  U.S. government securities handed investors a 0.7 percent
loss last month, the most since March based on Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes, as the Fed embarked on a plan to pump
$600 billion into the banking system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  