-- Treasury 10-Year Yield Reaches Four-month High on ECB Speculation, Economy
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-12-01T22:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/treasuries-fall-as-private-report-shows-u-s-added-more-jobs-than-forecast.html
Treasury 10-year note  yields  reached
the highest since July as reports showed the U.S. economy
strengthening and concern eased that the European debt crisis is
spreading reduced the appeal of U.S. securities as a haven.  The yield on benchmark note rose for the first time in four
days after an industry report showed the U.S. added more jobs
than forecast in November, signaling a labor market recovery is
under way. The Federal Reserve said the economy gained strength
in 10 of its 12 regions as hiring improved, manufacturing
expanded and retailers anticipated a stronger holiday shopping
season. U.S. stocks rallied, sending benchmark indexes toward
their biggest gains in three months.  “Stocks are up big, peripheral bond markets are doing
better and people are feeling more optimistic that the euro is
not coming unraveled, which is weighing on the bond market,”
said  Jay Mueller , who manages about $3 billion of bonds at Wells
Fargo Capital Management in Milwaukee. “The news and data show
there are moderate reasons for optimism as we have gone from
slow growth to somewhat faster growth.”  The benchmark 10-year yield rose 17 basis points to 2.97
percent at 5:02 p.m. in New York, according to BC Cantor Market
Data, touching the highest since July 30. The yield fell to 2.75
percent yesterday, the lowest level since Nov. 23. The 2.625
percent security due in November 2020 fell 1 13/32, or $14.06
per $1,000 face amount, to 97 3/32.  Longer Bonds  The 30-year bond yield climbed 13 basis points to 4.24
percent. It fell to 4.05 percent yesterday, the lowest level
since Nov. 5. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rallied the most
since Sept. 1 on a closing basis, adding 2.2 percent.  The Fed’s Beige Book report reflected information collected
on or before Nov. 19 and summarized by the Cleveland Fed. The
survey will be considered by Federal Open Market Committee
policy makers before their next meeting on Dec. 14, when they
will review their asset purchase program.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. increased its forecast for U.S.
gross domestic product growth next year to 2.7 percent from 2
percent. The U.S. economy will expand 3.6 percent in 2012,
according to a report sent to Goldman Sachs clients today.  The Fed bought $8.2 billion of Treasuries with maturities
from June 2016 and November 2017 as part of an asset-purchase
program aimed at lowering borrowing costs and stimulating
economic growth. The central bank is buying Treasuries every day
this week.  Euro View  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  yesterday said the
central bank’s bond-buying program is “ongoing” and “we will
see what we decide,” refusing to rule out an expansion of
purchases. His remarks helped lift the euro for the first time
in four days.  The ECB’s Governing Council will meet tomorrow amid
speculation it will again delay its exit from emergency
liquidity measures. All 52 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
expect the central bank to leave its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 1 percent.  Companies in the U.S. added 93,000 workers to payrolls in
November, according to figures from ADP Employer Services.  The ADP number was forecast to show a gain of 70,000 jobs,
according to the median estimate of 40 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Projections ranged from gains of 40,000 to
125,000.  Labor Analysis  “The lack of labor market participation had kept the
market from buying into the sustainability of the recovery, but
we are now seeing signs that the labor market is turning to the
upside,”said  Michael Pond , co-head of interest-rate strategy in
New York at Barclays Plc, one of 18 primary dealers that trade
with the Fed. “The nonfarm payrolls report will give us more
direction on where employment is going.”  Employment in the U.S. rose in November for the second
month in a row, with payrolls rising 145,000 a Labor Department
report will show December 3, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of 84 economists.  Ten-year rates will rise to 3.23 percent by the end of
2011, according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and securities
companies with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest
weightings. Investors who bought today would lose about 0.2
percent after accounting for interest payments, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Factory Patterns  The Institute for Supply Management’s factory index fell to
56.6 in November from 56.9 a month earlier, the Tempe, Arizona-
based group said today. Readings greater than 50 signal growth
and the index has been above 50 for 16 consecutive months,  U.S. government securities handed investors a 0.7 percent
loss last month, the most since March based on Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes, as the Fed embarked on a plan to pump
$600 billion into the banking system.  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said the U.S. must address
its budget deficit to protect the nation’s economy from risks
including a slowdown in growth.  “Charting a sensible course for the federal budget is an
essential but formidable task for U.S. policy makers,” Yellen,
64, said in a speech in New York today. “If current policy
settings are maintained, the budget will be on an unsustainable
path.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net . 