-- Trendy Eateries Coddle Diners With Gluten-Free Crepes, Barbecue
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   S m i t h   a n d   J o a n n a   O s s i n g e r
-- 2010-12-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/trendy-eateries-coddle-diners-with-gluten-free-crepes-barbecue.html
At a business lunch, you probably
want to be remembered for your smart chat and social skills, not
for a long discussion with the waiter about whether the French
fries contain gluten.  These days a growing number of restaurants are offering
dishes free of gluten, a protein found in wheat, rye and barley
that can give some people painful cramps and interfere with the
absorption of nutrients. National chains like  P.F. Chang’s China
Bistro ,  Uno  and  Chipotle Mexican Grill  also are getting into the
act. We scoured Manhattan to find additional places suitable for
business meals with gluten-free options.  “Diners just want a normal lunch, they don’t want to have
to negotiate with waiters,” said Mark Maynard-Parisi, managing
partner of Blue Smoke, a barbecue restaurant on E. 27th Street
that caters to the gluten intolerant.  Blue Smoke started its gluten-free menu after the staff
said more and more customers were seeking it out, Maynard-Parisi
said. “There’s a lot out there now on the market that maybe we
couldn’t get 20 years ago,” he said. “We have things like
quinoa on the menu, and grits, that are gluten-free and people
order them.”  The place is hopping even on weeknights, so expect a wait
at the bar. One bite into the perfectly smoked chipotle wings
($10.50) shows you have nothing to fear about any loss of
flavor. The gluten-free menu has a good selection, including the
restaurant’s best-known barbecue items. Texas salt-and-pepper
beef ribs (half rack for $14.95) are well-seasoned, if a bit
dry, while brisket ($18.95) is tender and moist.  Blue Smoke, 116 E. 27th St., also has vegetarian and nut-
free menus, and a jazz club downstairs. Information: +1-212-447-
7733;  http://www.jazzstandard.net/blue   Lilli and Loo  One of the most popular gluten-free selections at Lilli and
Loo on Lexington Avenue is Crispy General T’so Chicken ($10.95
at lunch, $15.95 at dinner). It’s even popular with customers
who couldn’t care less whether their food contains the protein.  Alfred Chong, co-owner and creator of the separate gluten-
free menu, says the secret is in the sauce. The gluten-free
version includes wheat-free soy sauce and balsamic vinegar,
instead of white vinegar, which makes for a richer flavor.  When Lilli and Loo introduced a gluten-free menu three
years ago, only a small percentage of people ordered from it.
“When we first started our main goal was to educate people
about gluten intolerance. First we educated our staff, then our
diners.” Now, Chong says, 10 percent of his business eats
gluten-free.  Lilli & Loo, 792 Lexington Avenue, sells gluten-free
Redbridge Beer for $5. Information: +1-212-421-7800;
 http://www.lilliandloo.com   Nizza  The restaurant’s moniker is Italian for the French city of
Nice, and French-Italian sums up this eatery just about
perfectly. Nizza has always sold socca, crisp chickpea pancakes
that are big in Nice and are also gluten-free, according to co-
owner Robert Guarino.  In the pizza-like quattro formaggi socca ($13.50), the
cheeses marry well with the crepe. Pasta (ziti al forno, $14.75,
for example) and bread are served along with Bard’s beer
($6.50), all gluten-free.  Feedback was “so positive” about the socca that co-owner
Andy D’Amico, also the executive chef, came up with an entire
gluten-free menu, Guarino said. “In some ways we stumbled into
it, but once we found it, it’s been great.”  Nizza, 630 Ninth Ave. Information: +1-212-956-1800;
 http://www.nizzanyc.com   Bar Breton  People who avoid gluten are often looking for foods they
miss, like French fries. At Bar Breton, the potatoes ($5) have
their own fryer, so stray gluten won’t taint them. Galettes, a
traditional cake in chef Cyril Renaud’s home of Brittany, are
also on the menu in both savory and sweet forms.  The Black Forest ham and Swiss cheese galette ($16) is
served with an egg sunny-side up and would suit breakfast-for-
dinner tastes. The BB Burger ($16), a tasty brisket and short-
rib mix served sans bun, comes with fries. Add a glass of Cotes
du Rhone Ferme de Suzon ‘08 ($14) and you have a perfect gluten-
free dinner.  Renaud, whose fans include comedian Jimmy Fallon, says,
“My favorite dessert is the galette with Nutella ($7). I love
the contrast; it’s a beautiful wedding of flavors.”  Bar Breton, 254 Fifth Ave. Information: +1-212-213-4999;
 http://www.barbreton.com   Mozzarelli’s  Mozzarelli’s, near Madison Square Park, is one of the only
pizzerias in town offering gluten-free slices ($3.95 for
cheese). Whole pies are $24. Pesto and ricotta cheese pizza
($32) is so good one slice won’t be enough.  Elan Malina, “chef and chemist,” says the secret to their
great tasting gluten-free crust is the blend of brown rice and
beans. It’s also available frozen for home pizza-making($9.95).  And if you’ve been missing out on typical desserts, try
gluten-free tiramisu brownies ($4.95), carrot cake ($4.95) or
cookies ($5.95 per pack).  Mozzarelli’s, 38 E. 23rd St., has been known to give away
gluten-free goods just before their closing time of 8:30.
Information: +1-212-475-6777;  http://www.mozzarellis.com   To contact the writer on the story:
 Catherine Smith  in New York 
 c.smith@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 