-- Rhodia Chief Targets Consumer Chemicals to Help Meet Profit Goal
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2010-12-01T13:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/rhodia-chief-targets-consumer-chemicals-to-help-meet-profit-goal.html
Rhodia SA  may make acquisitions to
expand in personal-care ingredients and help meet a goal of
lifting profit by more than a third in the next to three to five
years, the French chemical maker’s chief executive officer said.  Acquisitions  will add more than 100 million euros ($130
million) to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, CEO Jean- Pierre  Clamadieu said in an interview
yesterday. The figure includes 50 million euros from the
purchase of Feixiang Chemicals of China, completed yesterday.  The maker of materials for sportswear, cars and detergents
aims to boost Ebitda to more than 1 billion euros by 2015 at the
latest. That would compare to an estimated 750 million euros in
profit for this year, excluding carbon credit gains. Clamadieu
said expansion in India, where growth in demand is outstripping
more mature markets, is a priority.  “It’s time to have a new priority in emerging economies,
and that’s clearly India,” Clamadieu said in the interview in
Paris, where the company is based. “The personal care, cosmetic
and detergent market is growing very strongly.”  The French company rose 5.7 percent at 2:39 p.m. in Paris,
taking its gain this year to 70 percent, and valuing the
business at 2.2 billion euros. U.K.-based personal-care chemical
maker  Croda International Plc  has added 89 percent.  M&A Hot Spot  Rhodia’s acquisition of Feixiang Chemicals and BASF SE’s
purchase of Cognis Holding GmbH highlight increased spending on
ingredients for cosmetics and detergents by companies like
L’Oreal SA that are targeting consumers in Asia.  Organic growth, fueled by demand from emerging nations and
needs for products that are more environmentally-friendly, will
add at least 100 million euros to Ebitda within three to five
years, the CEO said. The market for high-performance silica, a
product used to make fuel-saving tire compounds, may grow by
about 10 percent for at least five years, he said.  Rhodia is working on about 15 “breakthrough” products
such as a polyamide-based composite that may replace aluminum or
steel and has a “very strong potential” in the car or leisure
boat industries, the CEO said. It’s also developing
biodegradable solvents such as paint strippers. These products
may add 50 million euros to Ebitda in the medium term, he said.  Consumer Focus  “Consumer chemicals will contribute most to growth,”
Clamadieu said. “The competition is very fragmented, so there
are still a lot of opportunities. We must probably make a mix of
small acquisitions and investments on our existing base” to
begin with, and “seek other opportunities of slightly more
significant sizes,” including to serve the car market, he said.  Rhodia makes 16 percent of sales in Brazil and 10 percent
in China, and only has a small presence in India, including a
surfactant plant near Mumbai. Emerging markets will represent 55
percent to 60 percent of sales within within five years, from
almost 50 percent now, Clamadieu said.  Rhodia’s net debt-to-Ebitda  ratio  will remain below 1.5 in
coming years, compared with less than 1.2 following the Feixiang
acquisition, the CEO said. The company’s  debt  is rated Ba3 by
Moody’s Investors Service, and BB by Standard & Poor’s.  Rhodia “will progressively increase the  dividend  as our
net profit increases,” Clamadieu said. “There’s no reason to
trim the payout ratio.”  “Since the start of the year, we’ve been in a situation in
which growth is weak but steady in Europe and the U.S., and very
strong in ex-emerging markets,” Clamadieu said. “We see that
scenario continuing in 2011. We’re heading into 2011 with trends
that are similar to the second half.”  As possible changes in international regulations may trim
or even eliminate Rhodia’s revenue from carbon trading beyond
2013, the company will invest up to 200 million euros with
financial partners in biomass cogeneration projects in Brazil
and Asia within five years. It announced such a partnership in
Brazil today.  The carbon credit business “may face quite a brutal drop
in 2013” and there’s a risk that it will fully disappear,
Clamadieu said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy  in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 