-- Rice May Triple in 18 Months as Supplies Tighten, Duxton's Peter Forecasts
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2010-12-01T07:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/rice-may-triple-in-18-months-as-supplies-tighten-duxton-s-peter-forecasts.html
Rice, the staple food of more than
three billion people, may as much as triple in 18 months as
flooding in exporters including Thailand tightens supplies and
demand climbs, according to Duxton Asset Management Pte.  “Rice will blow out the stocks,” said  Ed Peter , chief
executive officer, who co-founded the company last year with
Managing Director  Desmond Sheehy . Both worked at Deutsche Asset
Management and the Deutsche Bank AG unit owns 19.9 percent of
Duxton, while Peter, Sheehy and staff own the rest. Duxton,
based in Singapore, invests in farmland, Asian stocks and wine.  Peter’s forecast, in an interview on Nov. 29, would put
rice at more than the peak during the 2008  food crisis , which
triggered social unrest in poorer states. Wheat and corn also
surged that year, while record oil prices boosted fertilizer
costs.  Kiattisak Kanlayasirivat  at Novel Commodities SA, which
trades rice, said farmers can replant quickly as floods recede.  “A price increase of 10 percent to 20 percent would be
considered quite a lot, not to mention double or triple,” said
Kiattisak, a director at Novel Commodities’s Thai office, which
handles about 1.5 million metric tons of rice a year.  Thai 100-percent grade-B white export rice, the Asian
benchmark, peaked at $1,038 per ton in May 2008. The grain was
at $551 last week, up 15 percent since the end of June,
according to the Thai Rice Exporters Association. “Prices will
triple over the next 18 months,” Peter said in the interview.  Investment Strategy  Duxton oversees about $600 million, allocating 50 percent
to farmland in Australia, Argentina, Zambia and Tanzania and
about 45 percent to Vietnamese shares. Peter had headed Deutsche
Asset Management for Asia Pacific, Middle East and North Africa,
while Sheehy was in charge of that unit’s complex-asset team,
which focuses on non-traditional investments including farms.  The most severe floods in five decades in Thailand, the top
exporter, may trigger a 7 percent fall in rough-rice production,
which accounts for 70 percent of its total output, the
Agriculture and Cooperative Ministry has said. Crops in Vietnam
and Pakistan have also been hurt by severe weather, while a
typhoon cut harvests in the Philippines, the biggest importer.  Rice inventories held by the world’s five biggest exporters
will likely decline next year, tightening supply,  Concepcion Calpe , senior economist at the Food & Agriculture Organization,
said in October. Prices were “unlikely to fall,” Calpe said.  Global production will be 697.9 million tons, 6.5 million
tons smaller than previously estimated, as crops around Asia
“deteriorated,” the FAO said in a report yesterday. That’s the
third forecast cut since April.  Rough rice on the Chicago Board of Trade gained as much as
1.7 percent to $14.115 per 100 pounds today, extending an
advance from the year’s low of $9.55, which was set on June 30.
In 2008, the price peaked at $25.07 per 100 pounds.  “Rice is a long-term bet,” Duxton’s Sheehy said. Farm
products including rice may outperform metals and fuel over the
long term as the global population expands, Sheehy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chanyaporn Chanjaroen  in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 Jpoole4@bloomberg.net  