-- Rogers's Bid for Leafs, Raptors Would Add More Sports Content for Wireless
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2010-12-01T22:19:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/rogers-bid-for-leafs-raptors-teams-would-add-sports-content-analyst-says.html
     Dec. 1 (Bloomberg) --  Rogers Communications Inc.  may bid
for the Toronto Maple Leafs hockey team and the Raptors
basketball club for about C$1.3 billion ($1.28 billion), the
Toronto Star reported, which would add sports programming to
keep pace with competitors such as BCE Inc.  Rogers, Canada’s largest wireless carrier, is in talks to
buy a 66 percent stake in Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment Ltd.
from the Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan, the Toronto Star
reported today. The purchase would include the Toronto FC soccer
club, the Marlies minor-league hockey team and media ventures,
the Star said.  A deal would give Toronto-based Rogers, which owns Major
League Baseball’s Toronto Blue Jays, more exclusive sports
content for customers.  “The sports properties do represent the kind of glue they
need to keep you from straying,” said  Iain Grant , managing
director of research firm Seaboard Group in Montreal. “What I
like about the concept is the properties are in Rogers’ core
area and Ontario represents a substantial portion of Rogers’
revenue.”  Deborah Allan , a spokeswoman for Ontario Teachers’,
declined to comment. Teachers’ bought an additional 7.7 percent
stake in Maple Leaf Sports in August 2009, boosting its
ownership to 66 percent.  BCE Adds TSN  Rogers said there is no change in its relationship with
Maple Leaf Sports, according to an e-mailed statement today.
Rogers has a long-standing arrangement with Maple Leaf and is
“always in discussions” over sports content. The company said
it can’t comment on “rumor and speculation.”  BCE,  Canada’s No. 2 wireless carrier, agreed to buy
Canadian broadcaster CTV for C$1.3 billion in September to add
27 television stations across the country and 30 specialty
channels including the sports channel TSN. Calgary-based Shaw
Communications Inc. won approval in October for its C$2 billion
purchase of Canwest Global Communications Corp.’s TV
assets.  Rogers dropped 10 cents to C$36.19 at 4:15 p.m. in Toronto
Stock Exchange trading. The stock has gained 11 percent this
year. BCE rose 49 cents to C$35.20.  The Toronto Maple Leafs franchise is the most valuable in
the National Hockey League, valued at $470 million, followed by
the New York Rangers, Forbes magazine reported in November 2009.  ‘They Want More’  If talks are happening, “what it says is that they must be
happy with the sports assets they already own, and that’s
working for them, and they want more,” said  Doug Davis ,
president of Toronto-based Davis-Rea Ltd., which manages C$400
million in assets including BCE stock, though not Rogers shares.  The transaction with Rogers would include all the sports
properties owned by Maple Leaf Sports, including the Leafs and
Raptors television stations, the Star said. It wouldn’t include
the real-estate holdings, the Star said.  Richard Peddie , Maple Leaf Sports’ chief executive officer,
declined to comment to the Star, and referred calls to Ontario
Teachers’, the newspaper said. Peddie announced yesterday that
he plans to step down at the end of 2011.  It’s not known whether Rogers is the only bidder or whether
the pension plan intends to speak with other parties, the Star
said. Kilmer Sports Inc., a firm owned by  Larry Tanenbaum , owns
20.5 percent of Maple Leaf Sports, while TD Capital, a unit of
 Toronto-Dominion Bank,  holds 13.5 percent, the paper said.  “While a deal does not appear imminent, we would not be
overly surprised to see such a deal over time” given Rogers’
investment in sports and BCE’s stake in the Montreal Canadiens
hockey franchise, said  Dvai Ghose , an analyst at Canaccord
Genuity Corp. in Toronto. He has a “hold” rating on Rogers.  Rogers could “easily” finance such a deal with C$344
million in cash and C$2.2 billion in untapped credit, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  