-- Rogers in Talks to Purchase Maple Leafs, Raptors, Toronto Star Reports
-- B y   J o A n n e   N o r t o n   a n d   K e v i n   B e l l
-- 2010-12-01T12:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/rogers-in-talks-to-purchase-maple-leafs-raptors-toronto-star-reports.html
     Dec. 1 (Bloomberg) --  Rogers Communications Inc. , Canada’s
largest wireless carrier, is in talks to buy the Toronto Maple
Leafs National Hockey League team and the Raptors basketball
club for about C$1.3 billion ($1.28 billion), the Toronto Star
reported, citing people it didn’t identify.  The purchase of the 66 percent stake from the Ontario
Teachers’ Pension Plan would include the Toronto FC soccer club
and the Marlies, the Maple Leafs’ minor-league hockey team, as
well as media ventures, the Star reported. Rogers already owns
the Major League Baseball’s Toronto Blue Jays.  The transaction with Toronto-based Rogers would include all
of the sports properties owned by Maple Leaf Sports &
Entertainment Ltd., including the Leafs and Raptors television
stations, the Star said. It would not include the real estate
holdings, it said.  Deborah Allan , a spokeswoman for the pension plan, declined
to comment to Bloomberg News. Rogers spokesman  Bruce Mann  didn’t
immediately return a phone call or e-mail today.  Richard Peddie , Maple Leaf Sports’s chief executive
officer, declined to comment to the Star, and referred calls to
Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan, the Star said. Peddie announced
yesterday he plans to step down at the end of 2011.  It’s not known whether Rogers is the only bidder or whether
the pension plan intends to speak with other parties, the
newspaper said. Kilmer Sports Inc., a firm owned by  Larry Tanenbaum , owns 20.5 percent of Maple Leaf Sports, while TD
Capital, a unit of  Toronto-Dominion Bank,  holds 13.5 percent,
the paper said.  The Toronto Maple Leafs franchise is the most valuable in
the NHL, valued at $470 million, followed by the New York
Rangers, Forbes magazine reported in November 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kevin Bell  in Toronto at   kbell2@bloomberg.net 
To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joanne Norton at 
 jnorton@bloomberg.net 
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  