-- Roubini Sees European Financial Contagion Spreading Into Portugal, Spain
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2010-12-01T09:38:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/roubini-sees-european-financial-contagion-spreading-into-portugal-spain.html
Europe’s debt woes are at risk of
spreading to Portugal and Spain, and rising budget deficits in
the euro area are a concern, said Nouriel Roubini , the New York
University professor who predicted the global financial crisis.  “There’s now financial contagion in Portugal, Spain and to
a smaller degree even in countries like Italy, Belgium and
others in the euro zone,” Roubini said in a speech to a
conference in Taipei today.  Concern that Europe’s debt crisis will worsen has shifted
to Portugal and Spain since Nov. 28, when the region’s
governments gave Ireland an 85 billion-euro ($111 billion)
rescue package. The average yield for 10-year debt from Greece,
Ireland, Portugal, Spain and Italy reached a euro-era record as
speculation intensified that other nations will require support.  The shock from the Ireland rescue was more limited than
from the bailout of Greece, Roubini said today. The  European
Union  decided in May to set up a 750 billion-euro fund to help
rescue Greece.  Europe’s currency rose 0.7 percent to $1.3075 at 8:43 a.m.
in London, from $1.2983 yesterday, on speculation European
Central Bank policy makers will signal willingness to act to
prevent the spread of the debt crisis when they meet tomorrow.  The risk of a “double-dip” recession in the U.S. has
declined compared with four to five months ago, Roubini said,
helped by the U.S. Federal Reserve’s plan to buy $600 billion of
assets to spur economic growth.  ‘Party Over’  “The world can’t rely any more on the U.S. to keep
spending more than its means, more than its income,” Roubini
said. “That party, unfortunately, is over.”  Roubini in 2006 predicted the U.S. economy was “headed
toward a serious slowdown” because of the slump in the housing
market, high oil prices and the delayed impact of interest-rate
increases.  Emerging markets need to develop domestic demand and let
their currencies rise to help rebalance the global economy, a
process that may take many years, Roubini said today.  “There’s quite a significant difference between what’s
going on in most of the advanced economies and what’s going on
in most of the emerging market economies,” he said.  Most advanced economies, including the U.S., Japan and much
of Europe, are going to have “U-shaped,” or more “anemic”
recoveries, the professor said, while most emerging nations will
have a “V-shaped” recovery.  Capital Flows  Officials from emerging nations have complained that near-
zero borrowing costs and monetary easing in advanced nations is
propelling capital to their higher-yielding markets, threatening
asset bubbles.  Nations have adopted disparate steps to manage the risk,
with South Korea embracing a tax on foreigners’ investments in
its bonds and Indonesia favoring a lock-up period for overseas
purchases of bills  Emerging nations face a challenge in trying to manage long-
term capital flows as a “wall of liquidity” flows to their
economies, Roubini said. They are restraining their currencies
as China’s won’t let the yuan appreciate more, he said.  China can’t be the only “locomotive” of global growth and
“you still need robust growth in other advanced economies,”
Roubini said. A real-estate bubble has started in China and some
Asian property markets also show signs of the same development,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Culpan  in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net  