-- Ruble Snubbed as Eurobonds to Surpass Domestic Borrowing: Russia Credit
-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2010-12-02T10:24:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/ruble-snubbed-as-eurobonds-to-surpass-domestic-borrowing-russia-credit.html
Russian companies are turning to the
dollar for financing as slower-than-forecast economic growth
spurs the most bearish outlook for the ruble in eight months and
drives up local borrowing costs.  Sales of foreign-currency bonds probably will exceed ruble
debt this year for the first time since 2007 at $33 billion,
according to Moscow-based Troika Dialog, Russia’s oldest
brokerage. Ruble yields touched the highest in seven months
relative to dollars last week, based on trading in bonds from
OAO Lukoil, the nation’s largest non-state oil producer.  Russia is lagging behind Brazil and China for economic
growth while inflation is accelerating faster. Options traders
are betting against the ruble, with its one-month risk reversal
rate -- the premium of put options over calls -- at 2 percent on
Dec. 1, the highest level since Sept. 28. Energy and metals
producers, which account for the majority of Russian  exports ,
get most of their income in dollars and are borrowing in the
greenback to shield against market movements.  “Funding in dollars is a natural match to dollar revenue
flows,”  Daria Kim , the head of treasury at OAO Severstal,
Russia’s largest steel producer, said in an e-mail on Nov. 26.
“U.S. and European investors are in general more receptive to
longer maturities than investors in the ruble bond market.”  Severstal refinanced part of its dollar bonds due in 2013
with a $1 billion sale in October of securities due in 2017. The
yield spread between the steelmaker’s ruble bonds due in
February 2013 and dollar notes maturing in July 2013 more than
doubled since July, reaching 199 basis points today.  Falling Yields  Gains in Russian corporate dollar bonds reduced  yields  by
110 basis points, or 1.1 percentage points, in the past six
months, to 6 percent yesterday, based on a JPMorgan Chase & Co.
 index . The advance beats the 60 basis-point decline for
comparable Brazilian  debt  in the same period to 6.07 percent.  The yield spread between Lukoil’s ruble bonds due in
December 2013 and its dollar debt maturing in November 2014
widened to a seven-month high of 311 basis points on Nov. 22
from 166 basis points on May 25.  Companies led by state-run lenders VEB and  OAO Sberbank 
have raised $24.1 billion so far in 2010, the most in three
years, compared with about 800 billion rubles ($25.5 billion)
locally, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Last year, ruble bond
sales were about $3.5 billion more than foreign-currency deals.  Novatek, UralChem  OAO Novatek , Russia’s second-biggest gas producer, plans to
sell as much as $1.5 billion of bonds with a maturity of 10
years. UralChem Holding Plc plans to borrow about $525 million,
Chief Executive Officer  Dmitry Osipov  said in an interview in
Moscow on Oct. 19. Novatek Chief Financial Officer  Mark Gyetvay 
declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News on Nov. 25.  UralChem, Russia’s second-largest producer of nitrogen-
based fertilizers, “isn’t excluding” a sale of Eurobonds to
“securitize foreign-currency income,” Chief Financial Officer
 Maxim Bakov  in Moscow, said by e-mail on Nov. 26. The company
had $1.34 billion of debt as of June 30, according to its
 website .  “The preference for foreign-currency bonds is primarily
due to favorable market conditions and appealing rates,” Bakov
said. “It’s another matter how lasting this trend will be. The
situation may turn around early next year.”  While longer-dated foreign-currency debt enables companies
to raise capital for long-term projects, issuance in ruble bonds
is limited to shorter duration of five years, with “real
liquidity” available in the three-year market, said  Giacomo Baizini , chief financial officer at Evraz Group SA, Russia’s
second-largest steelmaker, said by e-mail on Nov. 26.  Ruble Slides  The ruble slid 2.2 percent against the dollar in November,
the most since a 5.8 percent slump in May. The so-called implied
yield, or carry, paid to investors who bet on the ruble using
one-year non-deliverable forwards was at 4.69 percent today and
4.92 percent on Nov. 29, the highest reading in six months.  The ruble strengthened 0.2 percent to 31.375 per dollar by
12:41 p.m. in Moscow, rebounding from its weakest closing price
against the greenback since June 11 on Nov. 30.  The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 dropped 12
basis points to 4.927 percent. The price of the country’s ruble
notes due August 2016 rose, pushing the yield down 5 basis
points to 7.34 percent.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps fell two basis points to
162 points today, according to data provider CMA. The contracts
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade, cost 20
basis points more than similar contracts for Turkey, which is
rated four levels lower at Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40
basis points less on April 20.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries dropped 1 basis point to 230 points,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. EMBI+ indexes show. The difference compares
with 147 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 184 for Brazil,
which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 25 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  Trailing Brazil  International bond sales by Russian companies trail the
amount from Brazil, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Brazilian companies have raised $38.7 billion from foreign-
currency debt and 30 billion reais ($17.6 billion) in domestic
bonds this year, the figures show.  Russia’s inflation rate may reach 8.4 percent this year,
exceeding the official forecast of 8 percent, while gross
domestic product will probably gain 3.8 percent, less than the 4
percent initially predicted by the government, Economy Minister
 Elvira Nabiullina  said in Moscow yesterday. GDP grew an annual
2.7 percent in the third quarter, the slowest pace this year.  China’s economy expanded three times faster, at 9.6 percent
last quarter, and India’s grew an annual 8.9 percent in the
three months through September. The Indian economy is likely to
expand 8.5 percent in the fiscal year through March, the most in
three years, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said Nov. 20.  The weaker ruble, faster inflation and expectations that
the central bank will raise interest rates for the first time
since 2008 have damped the appeal of local-currency debt.  “The ruble debt market is starting to see a rise in
borrowing costs, bringing to an end an era of super-liquidity
that helped take yields to the lowest level on record,” said
 Leonid Ignatiev , head of fixed-income research at Trust National
Bank in Moscow. “There’s a build-up of inflationary risks,
which means we might see an increase in key interest rates as
early as the first quarter of next year.”  Russian banks charged 4.78 percent on Nov. 30 to lend to
each other  overnight , an increase of 228 basis points since June
and the highest level in almost 10 months.  “With nominal yields so attractive, borrowing abroad will
always be tempting for Russia’s biggest corporates and banks,”
said  Pavel Pikulev , a fixed-income strategist at OAO
Gazprombank, the lending arm of Russia’s gas export monopoly.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net ;
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  