-- Russia Leads England in 2018 World Cup Race; Putin Won't Travel to Zurich
-- B y   A n a s t a s i a   U s t i n o v a   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2010-12-01T13:43:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/russia-leads-england-in-2018-world-cup-race-putin-won-t-travel-to-zurich.html
Russia is the bookmakers’ favorite to
host soccer’s 2018 World Cup, though Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said he won’t join his British counterpart,  David Cameron ,
at the announcement in Zurich to push Russia’s case.  Bookmakers  William Hill Plc ,  Ladbrokes Plc  and Paddy Power
all had Russia as the front-runner to host the tournament this
afternoon, followed by England and joint bids from Portugal and
Spain and Belgium and the Netherlands. The  Federation
Internationale de Football Association , or FIFA, soccer’s world
governing body, will announce the hosts of the 2018 and 2022
competitions tomorrow.  Putin said today that he won’t fly to Zurich in order to
give FIFA’s selection committee “the chance to make an
objective decision calmly and without external pressure.”
Cameron said on Nov. 12 that he’ll attend the ceremony.  Russia’s bid  includes construction of 13 stadiums and
renovation of three more at a projected cost of $3.8 billion and
an operating budget of $641 million for 2017-2018. Russia
committed to make “major upgrades and capacity increases” at
most airports serving the 13 proposed host cities, including
Sochi, home of the 2014 Winter Olympics.  FIFA assessed Russia’s ability to provide requisite
airports and international connections as a “high risk” in its
 bid evaluation report . All aspects of England’s bid are rated as
“low” or “medium” risks.  ‘Dragged Through the Mud’  Putin today criticized a “campaign” against members of
FIFA’s executive committee involved in the selection as “unfair
competition.” The officials are “being compromised and dragged
through the mud,” Putin said at a government meeting in Moscow.
“Such methods are entirely inadmissible.”  FIFA suspended two executive committee members last month
following a corruption probe into bids to host the World Cup.
Its decision-making body was reduced to 22 members as Nigeria’s
 Amos Adamu  was suspended for three years and fined 10,000 Swiss
francs ($10,120) and Tahiti’s Reynald Temarii was banned for a
year and fined 5,000 francs.  London-based bookmaker William Hill had Russia as a 4/7
favorite to host the tournament at 3:30 p.m. Moscow time today,
with England at 2/1, Portugal and Spain at 9/2 and Belgium and
the Netherlands at 40/1. Paddy Power gave 8/11 odds for Russia
and 2/1 for England, while  Ladbrokes  offered 5/6 for Russia and
13/8 for England.  ‘Tens of Billions’  A successful Russian bid may speed infrastructure
development and boost airlines and steelmakers, though it could
cost “tens of billions” of dollars, analysts said.  “Russia’s success would be very positive for stocks such
as OAO Aeroflot, the steel companies, media companies and the
banks as a Russia proxy,”  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at
Moscow-based UralSib Financial Corp., wrote in a note to
investors. “While the cost would likely run into the tens of
billions, World Cup 2018 would inject a great deal more urgency,
and a stricter timeline, into the government’s modernization
program.”  The “very intensive development of infrastructure and
heavy investments” may boost demand for steel products,  Alexey Bulgakov , an analyst at Moscow-based Troika Dialog, said on Nov.
29 in a note to investors.  “If the volatility on international markets diminishes,
some investors next week may start experiencing warm feelings
toward Evraz Group Eurobonds and to a lesser extent Severstal
should Russia emerge as the winner,” Bulgakov said.  ‘Going to War’  Talk about the economic benefits of hosting the World Cup
are illusory, said  Simon Kuper , a co-author of Soccernomics, a
book about the economics of the game.  “The main reason for hosting the games is that it gives
the whole country something everyone cares about, almost like
going to war,” Kuper said by telephone from Paris. “It’s a
great togetherness. And it’s great for the political elite and
for the construction companies.”  Kuper said his study of previous tournaments yielded no
evidence that hosting the World Cup makes countries more
attractive for investors. Russia is likely to end up with “a
lot of empty stadiums,” he said.  Average attendance  at games in
Russia’s Premier League was 12,343 this season, according to the
league’s website.  England and the U.S. are the only countries bidding to host
the 2018 and 2022 World Cups that can meet FIFA’s revenue
targets, a study commissioned by soccer’s governing body said.
The confidential report, prepared by McKinsey & Co. and seen by
Bloomberg News, was sent to FIFA’s Executive Committee. It
didn’t detail FIFA’s projected revenue target.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anastasia Ustinova  in St. Petersburg at 
 austinova@bloomberg.net ;
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague  jagomez@bloomberg.net  