-- Russian Central Bank Considers `All Possible Reactions' to Fight Inflation
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2010-12-01T14:57:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/russian-central-bank-considers-all-possible-reactions-to-fight-inflation.html
Russia’s central bank is considering
“all possible reactions” to demand-driven inflation, First
Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said.  “As soon as we see some growth” in demand-side inflation,
Bank Rossii could react on three fronts, Ulyukayev said today in
an interview in London. “First, the policy rate; second, the
reserve requirements and third, the exchange rate performance.
We’ll be watching the situation and make our decision
accordingly.”  Annual  inflation  accelerated to 7.5 percent in October, the
highest since January, after the worst drought in at least half
a century hobbled agriculture and drove up food prices.
Inflation risks “due to monetary factors” are at an acceptable
level, the central bank said in a statement on Nov. 26, when it
kept its main interest rates at a record low for a sixth month.  Bank Rossii  also said the annual inflation rate rose to 7.8
percent through Nov. 22, exceeding the bank’s benchmark 7.75
percent refinancing rate. The regulator retracted a pledge to
keep its main rates unchanged “for the coming months.”  “This means that we now feel this monetary side
influencing inflation,” Ulyukayev said today. “This means that
we free ourselves to change policy in case it’s necessary.”  Policy makers may raise their main  interest rate  by a
quarter point to 8 percent by the end of March in what would be
the first increase since 2008, according to the median estimate
of 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The central bank is still “thinking about it,” Ulyukayev
said. “I’m not going to say if it’s likely or unlikely.”  Exchange Rate  Russia will continue to move toward “more flexibility of
the exchange rate,” Ulyukayev said. The central bank may do
this by widening the operational floating corridor within which
the ruble trades against the target dollar-euro basket and by
changing the amount of currency the central bank buys and sells
when it moves the boundaries of this corridor, he said.  The corridor was 33 to 37 rubles on Nov. 26, according to
the central bank. This compares with a corridor of 32.8 to 36.8
on Oct. 13, Ulyukayev said in a Nov. 24 interview.  Bank Rossii has managed the ruble against the basket since
2005. The basket is calculated by multiplying the dollar-ruble
rate by 0.55, the euro-ruble rate by 0.45, then adding them
together. The central bank buys and sells foreign currency to
keep the ruble within the corridor and limit swings that erode
the competitiveness of producers.  The central bank won’t take “any radical steps” to reduce
interventions and will “move step by step” in increasing
flexibility, Ulyukayev said today, adding he is “not really”
concerned about the bank’s moves draining ruble liquidity.  “The amount of free liquidity, of course, decreased but
it’s still a big figure,” he said. “If the situation will
continue to be like that we will get more concerned.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Agnes Lovasz  in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net 
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  