-- Global Growth, Valuations to Drive Kospi Index Rally, Credit Suisse Says
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2010-12-02T05:37:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/s-korea-s-kospi-may-rise-to-2-300-in-2011-credit-suisse-says.html
Global economic growth and cheap
valuations may cause South Korea’s  Kospi Index  to rally 19
percent next year, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  The benchmark index, the best performer among gauges for
the world’s 15 biggest markets this year, may climb to 2,300
next year, according to  Seok Yun , Seoul-based head of research
at Credit Suisse and the top-ranked analyst for South Korean
stocks in the 2010 Institutional Investor poll, at a press
briefing in the South Korean capital yesterday. The stock gauge
rose 1.3 percent yesterday to 1,929.32.  “The market’s increased comfort with the sustainability of
global growth, along with continued low interest rates and
abundant global liquidity, leads us to see a strong case for the
expansion of multiples in 2011,” Yun wrote in his presentation
slides. “Foreign fund inflows will continue next year.”  Manufacturing in some of the world’s largest economies grew
in November, a sign that the global recovery is gaining traction
as the year draws to a close. Output in the U.S. expanded for a
16th straight month, U.K. manufacturing growth unexpectedly
accelerated to the fastest in 16 years, and China’s output grew
at a faster pace for a fourth month.  The Kospi’s 769 stocks trade at an average 11 times
 estimated earnings , the lowest in Asia after Pakistan and
Vietnam. The benchmark index rose to a three-year high on Nov.
10 as a continued recovery in the nation’s economy and
speculation that the won will strengthen drew overseas investors.
It rose 0.9 percent to 1,946.83 as of 2:05 p.m. today, taking
its 2010 gain to 16 percent.  Korea’s Growth  South Korea’s gross domestic product increased 0.7 percent
from the previous three months, when it gained 1.4 percent, the
Bank of Korea said in Seoul today.  Foreigners have bought a net 17.9 trillion won ($15.6
billion) of Kospi equities so far this year, compared with 32.4
trillion won for the whole of last year, according to Koscom
Corp., which provides financial data from Korea Exchange Inc.  Credit Suisse has an “overweight” recommendation on
technology companies, saying the industry offers the best return
potential should global growth prove to be more resilient than
investors expect. It also favors financial shares because of
their “decent” earning recovery outlook.  Samsung Electronics Co. ,  Posco ,  Shinhan Financial Group Co. ,
 LG Display Co. ,  S-Oil Corp.  and Samsung Fire & Marine Insurance
Co. are the brokerage’s top picks in South Korea, according to
the presentation slides.  Further Gains  Credit Suisse joins other brokerages from Deutsche Bank AG
to Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. in predicting gains
for South Korean equities.  The  Kospi  may reach 2,200 by June 2011, Deutsche Bank’s
 Chanik Park  said last month, while Citigroup analysts led by
 Michael Chung  predict the measure will rise to between 2,200 and
2,300 in the first half of next year. JPMorgan said on Nov. 17
the Kospi may reach 2,300 at the end of 2011.  Credit Suisse’s Yun said there haven’t been “big
disturbances” in financial markets after North Korea on Nov. 23
shelled a South Korean fishing community and military base,
killing four people. The Kospi yesterday erased all of its post-
attack decline of 1.7 percent.  Japan and the U.S. will conduct a joint military exercise
starting tomorrow until Dec. 10, two days after South Korea and
the U.S. finished maneuvers in response to North Korea’s deadly
artillery bombardment last week. The South will hold artillery
drills on Yeonpyeong, the island shelled last week, on Dec. 6,
television broadcaster MBN reported today, citing government
officials it didn’t identify.  Market Impact  The “obvious question we can ask is, is there any nation
that wants the South-North Korea situation to deteriorate
further from here?” Yun said. “The answer is no, and that they
ultimately want a happy ending. If we look at the past two
decades, there were worse provocations by the North than the
latest one, and we didn’t see long-lasting impact on markets.”  Investor  Mark Mobius  also said in a posting on his blog on
Nov. 29 that military tensions on the Korean peninsula will
probably have a “short-lived” impact on South Korean stocks
and the nation’s outlook is “positive” because of economic
growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Saeromi Shin  in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 