-- S&P 500 to Defy `New Normal' and Rally 17%, Cambiar's Barish Says
-- B y   J o a n n a   O s s i n g e r
-- 2010-12-01T20:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/s-p-500-to-defy-pimco-s-new-normal-rise-17-by-end-of-2011-barish-says.html
Energy and industrial companies will
rise next year, propelling a 17 percent gain in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index from its current level, according to Cambiar
Investors LLC’s  Brian Barish .  Next year will be marked by a “multi-speed recovery” as
industries weakened by the recession, such as financial
companies, lag behind those that are healthy and have cheap
valuations, Barish said in an interview. He said stocks will
perform better than would be expected under the “new normal”
theory of the economy championed by Pacific Investment
Management Co., owner of the world’s biggest bond fund, which
says growth will be relatively slow in coming years.  “The bleeding has stopped,” said Barish, who oversees
$5.7 billion in assets as president of Denver-based Cambiar,
including the  Cambiar Aggressive Value  fund, which has beaten 99
percent of peers over the past year. “The market multiple is
very low on earnings, and it doesn’t seem that big a stretch to
me to see that multiple expand.”  The S&P 500 has risen 75 percent since its low in March
2009 to yesterday’s closing level of 1,180.55 as confidence in
earnings and the U.S. economy has risen. Its  price-to-earnings 
ratio is 15, below the 16.4 average in data compiled by
Bloomberg going back to 1954.  The S&P 500 will rise to 1,300 by June 30 and 1,380 by the
end of next year, based on the weighted average of estimates by
Cambiar’s nine analysts. The average prediction of six
strategists surveyed by Bloomberg is for a rise to 1,337 in the
S&P 500 by the end of 2011.  No ‘New Normal’  The structural issues affecting the U.S. and European
economies that led to the “new normal” prediction by Pimco are
“more of a bond buyer’s problem than an equity buyer’s
problem,” he said.  “If the whole stock market were a bunch of commercial
real-estate investment trusts, they’d have a great argument,”
he said. “We shouldn’t confuse the stock market with the U.S.
economy. Particularly outside the U.S., a lot of structural
issues just aren’t there, and U.S. companies get a lot of their
revenue from outside the country.”  Mark Porterfield , a Pimco spokesman, didn’t respond to a
request for comment sent by voicemail and e-mail.  Barish said there will be a “multi-speed” market in 2011,
as stocks in  industries  such as energy, consumer products and
agriculture advance because “the revenue profile for those
businesses has snapped right back to where it was before the
great recession.” Financial and real estate companies may
suffer because “it takes years, if not sometimes decades, for
the economic landscape associated with bubbles to recover” he
said.  ‘Roughed Up’ Investors  Barish said he thinks the stock market’s advance will be
restrained until there’s a shift in asset allocation.  “I think you need people to get roughed up in the bond
market to get things to change in the stock market,” he said.
“People had blinders on when they looked at sovereign debt, and
now the blinders are off” with Greece and Ireland getting
bailouts from the European Union and International Monetary
Fund, and others such as Portugal and Spain seeing their credit
ratings cut and their fiscal stability called into question.  The Federal Reserve’s attempts to boost the economy through
asset purchases are likely to fuel inflation, he said. An
inflation rate above the two-year Treasury note yield, which was
0.45 percent yesterday, would cause a decline in the real value
of money, he said.  Energy  is “the most intriguing sector” for 2011, Barish
said, because it is still recovering from the BP Plc oil spill
in the Gulf of Mexico, which created “myopic selling” of
stocks in the industry. Cambiar owns shares of  Halliburton Co. ,
Apache Corp. and Repsol YPF SA, Barish said, and his firm sees
oil rising to $94 a barrel next year.  Outlook for Financials  Financial companies have a “really bad” revenue outlook
because of restrictions on parts of their business, such as
securitization of loans and offering credit cards, that boosted
them during the bubble, Barish said.  “We own  Bank of America Corp. , not because we love it but
because it’s selling for less than 60 percent of book value,”
Barish said. “I wouldn’t touch the investment banks” like
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  He said Cambiar has been “almost
completely unexposed to banks since October 2007,” the month
the  S&P 500  reached its record of 1,565.15.  Regional banks can be attractive on a case-by-case basis,
Barish said, and most of those he sees as good investments have
low valuations. He said many of the banks that performed well
had gone through crises in the past few decades, such as the
Texas banks that suffered in the 1980s, because the companies
learned from what happened.  Tech Balance Sheets  “It shows you the value of human experience,” Barish
said.  Technology companies have too much cash on their balance
sheets, and should avoid using it for buybacks because they
“don’t work,” Barish said. He cited  Cisco Systems Inc.  and
Apple Inc. as companies with war chests that are “just
laughable” because they’re so big.  “The problem with buybacks is that they’re almost always
timed badly” because they’re often done when share prices are
relatively high,’’ Barish said.  Barish said  Apple’s  share-price advance may slow, because
“when stocks get above $300 billion in market capitalization,
they don’t tend to stay there,” with the exception of Exxon
Mobil Corp. Apple, which has soared 48 percent this year, has a
market value as of yesterday’s close of $285 billion.  Intel,  Microsoft Corp.  and Dell Inc. could suffer in the
next year because the shift to small, portable devices driven by
Apple’s iPad “will prove very disruptive to the PC market,”
Barish said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joanna Ossinger  in New York at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 