-- Saudi Arabian Billionaire Maan Al-Sanea Loses Challenge to Caymans Lawsuit
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-12-01T23:38:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/saudi-arabian-billionaire-maan-al-sanea-loses-challenge-to-caymans-lawsuit.html
Maan al-Sanea , a Saudi Arabian
billionaire, has lost a jurisdictional challenge to a lawsuit
filed against him in the Cayman Islands by Ahmad Hamad Algosaibi
& Brothers Co., alleging he misappropriated money.  The Cayman Islands Court of Appeal today rejected al-
Sanea’s bid to overturn a lower court’s July decision that the
Caribbean nation had jurisdiction over the dispute, according to
a 55-page ruling furnished to Bloomberg News by James
Courtovich, a Washington-based spokesman for the Algosaibi firm.  The court of appeal also reversed a ruling by Cayman
Islands Grand Court Chief Judge Anthony Smellie halting the
proceedings in deference to potential rulings on the dispute by
a Saudi Arabian commission.  The Algosaibis have alleged that al-Sanea misappropriated
$9.2 billion from the group’s units, in part to fund his Saad
Group of companies. Al-Sanea has denied those allegations.  “Mr. al-Sanea asserts that the AHAB partners are and have
always been fully aware of the true extent of the massive
borrowings,” the appeals court said in its decision.  Reached after hours, a London-based spokesman for al-Sanea,
Mark Bolland, said he was unfamiliar with the ruling and
couldn’t comment on it.  “With this decision, the stay is lifted and the fraud
claim in the Cayman Islands can now proceed to judgment,”
Courtovich said in a statement e-mailed to Bloomberg News.  The case was filed last year in the island nation, where
some of al-Sanea’s businesses are incorporated.  The case is Ahmad Hamad Algosaibi & Brothers Co. v Saad
Investments Co., CICA 15, 20 and 21 of 2010, Court of Appeal of
the Cayman Islands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 