-- Seadrill Soars to Record After Company Gives Bullish Drilling Rig Outlook
-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 2010-12-01T13:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/seadrill-soars-to-record-after-company-gives-bullish-drilling-rig-outlook.html
Seadrill Ltd. , owner of the second-
largest fleet of deepwater rigs, climbed to a record in Oslo
trading after Chief Executive Officer  Alf Thorkildsen  said rig
rates are poised to gain.  Seadrill rose as much as 5.3 percent to 200.2 kroner, the
highest since the stock started trading in May 2005, and was at
199.4 kroner as of 2:02 p.m. local time. The shares have
rebounded 72 percent from this year’s low on July 1, valuing the
Bermuda-based company at 82 billion kroner ($13 billion).  Thorkildsen said yesterday he expects day rates for rigs to
improve, led by demand for newer vessels, as oil companies
increasingly explore in technically demanding areas amid
stricter safety regulations following the Macondo well disaster.
Seadrill raised its dividend to $0.65 a share from $0.61 in the
prior quarter, and said the fourth quarter indicated “good
growth” and “solid profitability.”  Offshore exploration from West Africa to Brazil is
generating demand for rigs after oil prices more than doubled
since the end of 2008 and the financial crisis eased. Oil
companies are “queuing up to submit requests” to resume
drilling in the Gulf of Mexico after the moratorium was lifted
by President  Barack Obama  a month ago, according to the
International Energy Agency.  Recent Orders  Seadrill last month ordered two ultra deep-water
drillships, which can reach 12,000 feet (3,700 meters), at $600
million each for delivery starting in 2013. It has options for
two more. The company also ordered four jack-up rigs for $780
million since October, with options for six more, and bought a
high specification jack-up from Petrojack IV Pte. Ltd.
yesterday.  “The company’s strategic focus on technically superior
assets should add value long-term given the attractive financial
terms on their newbuilds and continued operator preference for
higher-spec rigs,” Credit Suisse Group AG analysts  Arun Jayaram ,  Tao Ly  and  Eduardo Royes  said in a report. They raised
the target price on the stock to 181 kroner from 150 kroner.  “The trend right now is to favor the type of rigs Seadrill
has,” Carnegie ASA analyst  Atle Hauge , who has an
“outperform” rating on the stock, said by phone.  Citigroup Inc. today reiterated its “buy” recommendation
on the stock and raised its target price to 265 kroner from 200
kroner.  Morgan Stanley raised its target to $40. The stock  closed 
at $13.09 in New York yesterday.  ‘Upside Opportunities’  “Seadrill’s defensive features and upside opportunities
continue to make it an appealing income and growth stock, in our
view,” Citigroup’s  Kenan Najafov  said in a report.  Seadrill yesterday issued a filing to the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission regarding the signing of two forward
contracts with DnB NOR ASA and Nordea AB for shares in Pride
International Inc. Seadrill owns 9.4 percent in the U.S. rig
company.  Seadrill yesterday issued a filing to the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission regarding the signing of two forward
contracts with DnB NOR ASA and Nordea AB for the purchase of
shares in Pride International Inc. Seadrill owns 9.4 percent in
the U.S. rig company.  Thorkildsen yesterday said the company was keeping its
options open regarding its stake in Pride. Seadrill is engaging
in organic mergers and acquisitions as well as “selective M&A
depending on the asset and the order back-log attached to it,”
he said.  “The wording in the filing just means we’re keeping all
options open,”  Jim Daatland , Seadrill’s head of investor
relations, said by phone today. “The status on that hasn’t
changed.”  The Wall Street Journal last month reported that Pride is
looking at strategic options including a possible sale of the
company and has held talks with Seadrill.  “I read this as just a confirmation of what the companies
have been in discussions about for the past 2 1/2 years,” Hauge
said. “It could happen, you never know, but most people I speak
to believe it’s most likely that it won’t happen right now. It’s
taken too long.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marianne Stigset  at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  