-- Seattle Genetics Leads Roche in Race to Develop Combo Cancer Therapy
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 2010-12-01T21:24:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/seattle-genetics-may-beat-roche-in-guided-missle-cancer-medicine-race.html
Seattle Genetics Inc.  and  Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co . may beat  Roche Holding AG  in developing a new
type of combination cancer therapy that’s less toxic than
standard treatments.  The product, SGN-35, uses an antibody that recognizes and
connects to receptors found only on the surface of malignant
cells. Once there, the therapy releases a powerful chemical
called auristatin that kills cancer cells by stopping them from
dividing. By keeping that drug out of the bloodstream and away
from healthy tissue, the treatment avoids the side effects of
standard chemotherapy.  Two studies on SGN-35’s use in lymphoma, to be reported at
a  medical meeting  next week, may allow Osaka, Japan-based Takeda
and Seattle Genetics, of Bothell, Washington, to win U.S.
clearance a year before Roche’s similar therapy, called T-DM1.
If approved, SGN-35 may generate $420 million in annual revenue
by 2015, said  Jason Kantor , an analyst at RBC Capital Markets.  The two drugs “are the tip of an iceberg,” said Kantor,
who is based in San Francisco, in a telephone interview. “Once
one of these drugs proves itself clinically and is approved,
we’re going to see many more over the next three to five years.
And they will have a meaningful impact on cancer treatment.”  Seattle Genetics, which has no marketed products, plans to
apply to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for conditional
approval of SGN-35 in the first half of 2011, said Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  Clay Siegall . That process would allow
the drug to be used while the company conducts confirmatory
studies. If the agency agrees, SGN-35 may be in doctors’ hands
by the end of 2011, Siegall said in an interview.  Roche Drug Denied  In August, the FDA declined a request by Basel,
Switzerland-based Roche, the world’s biggest maker of cancer
drugs, and its partner, Waltham, Massachusetts-based Immunogen
Inc., to approve T-DM1, a souped-up version of its breast cancer
therapy Herceptin, on an accelerated basis. The agency said the
application didn’t meet the criteria because other therapies for
breast cancer are available to patients, according to Roche.  Roche may file a new application in 2012, Krysta
Pellegrino, a spokeswoman for Roche’s Genentech unit, based in
South San Francisco, California, said in an e-mail.  Seattle Genetics rose 12 cents, or less than a percent, to
$15.22 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.
The shares have surged 25 percent since preliminary results on
the lymphoma studies were announced before the start of trading
on Sept. 27, and 57 percent in 12 months.  ‘Very Potent’  Those  initial results  showed the drug was “very potent”
and provide the basis for Seattle Genetics to seek U.S.
clearance, Kantor said. While approval would come first for
patients who weren’t cured by other therapies, the drug
eventually may gain wider use if it proves itself as a first-
line treatment, he said.  The new combination drugs have three key components: an
antibody, a cancer-killing drug, and a Velcro-like substance
known as a linker that holds the two tightly together so they
don’t separate in the bloodstream. After the antibody finds and
binds to its target, the linker loosens its grip and dumps the
drug in the cell, where it attacks from within.  Because the medications deliver their chemical payloads
only to the tumor, they can be given at high doses and still
avoid the side effects that can make chemotherapy miserable for
many patients, said  Hope Rugo , a breast cancer specialist at the
University of California, San Francisco.  ‘A Real Change’  “If this approach pans out, it could bring a real change
in the way we think about delivering treatment,” Rugo said in a
telephone interview. “It’s a perfect scenario for how you could
kill cancer and not cause so much systemic toxicity.”  Andrei Shustov , a blood cancer specialist at the University
of Washington in Seattle, led a trial of patients who had
relapsed after being treated for  anaplastic large cell lymphoma ,
a rare and aggressive type of t-cell lymphoma. Lymphomas attack
the lymphatic system, part of the body’s disease-fighting
system.  Shustov and his colleagues gave as many as 16 rounds of
SGN-35 to 58 patients. In the first group of 30, 57 percent had
a complete response, meaning their cancer was undetectable, and
30 percent had less cancer in their system.  “In treating t-cell lymphomas for the past five years, I
have never seen activity even approaching the efficacy of SGN-
35,” Shustov said. “I believe this is a major breakthrough in
t-cell lymphoma therapy.”  Woman in Remission  Among the patients was a 19-year-old woman who’d been told
she was likely to die. She’s now in remission, Shustov said. He
will present detailed results on all 58 patients at the annual
meeting of the American Society of Hematology, beginning Dec. 4
in Orlando, Florida.  SGN-35 also was tested in 102 patients with a more common
condition called  Hodgkin’s lymphoma . While Hodgkin’s is often
curable, the people in the study were drawn from the 15 percent
of patients who didn’t improve on chemotherapy and had poor
prospects for survival.  Initial  results  of the trial, which also will be presented
at the hematology meeting, showed that the tumors shrank in 97
percent of patients, and symptoms disappeared in 83 percent.  “This is unheard of for a single drug,” said  Robert Chen ,
the study’s lead researcher. “Within a week you could see some
patients get better.” With SGN-35, “you’re going to see more
cures and you’re going to buy a lot more time for patients who
previously were destined for hospice.”  Chen is an assistant professor at the  City of Hope , a
nonprofit cancer center in Duarte, California, and a consultant
for Seattle Genetics.  Other Partners  Seattle Genetics and other partners are also testing
different antibody-drug combinations for treating cancers of the
kidney, prostate, pancreas and other organs. The allies include
Roche’s Genentech unit; Bayer AG of Leverkusen, Germany; Celldex
Therapeutics Inc. of Needham, Massachusetts; Daiichi Sankyo Co.
of Tokyo; GlaxoSmithKline Plc of London; AstraZeneca Plc of
London, and Astellas Pharma Inc. of Tokyo.  Seattle Genetics’ experimental SGN-35 won’t be the
first drug in this therapy family to make it to market.
Mylotarg, developed by Wyeth, was removed from the market in
June by New York-based  Pfizer Inc.,  which acquired Wyeth last
year. Studies showed that the medicine didn’t benefit patients
with leukemia and was linked to deaths from liver and lung
complications.  Mylotarg’s side effects are thought to have been caused by
the failure of the linker to hold onto its cancer-killing
payload, said Fred Jacobson, a Genentech scientist, said in an
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 