-- Temasek, GIC Raise $9.9 Billion With Bond Sales, Real Estate Trust IPOS
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 2010-12-02T03:08:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/singapore-s-temasek-gic-raise-9-9-billion-most-among-sovereign-firms.html
Temasek Holdings Pte  and  Government
of Singapore Investment Corp.  raised about $9.9 billion from
international investors over the past year, selling more debt
and equity than any other state investment firm.  Temasek, based in Singapore, sold almost $6 billion of
bonds since October last year. Temasek-controlled  Mapletree
Industrial Trust  and  Global Logistic Properties Ltd. , GIC’s
overseas logistics unit, raised S$5.1 billion ($3.9 billion)
selling shares in October, accounting for 10 percent of the
record initial public offerings in the Asia-Pacific region that
month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sovereign investment firms with stakes in government-linked
companies and real estate are increasingly turning to private
investors for funds and are using debt to increase leverage as
they reduce state exposure. GIC and Temasek may continue to take
advantage of the capital inflows into Asia as the region’s
economic growth outpaces the rest of the world.  “People might see them as less sovereign going forward in
the sense that they are less reliant on government revenues to
drive things,” said  Melvyn Teo , associate professor of finance
at Singapore Management University, who has consulted for state
wealth funds. “It’s a way for them to take advantage of
investment opportunities now, despite not having a lot of
ammunition to do so.”  Emerging Markets  GIC and Temasek are seeking to boost investments in higher-
growth emerging economies, especially in Asia. Temasek has
holdings in  PT Bank Danamon Indonesia , U.S. natural gas producer
Chesapeake Energy Corp. and Singapore-based agricultural
commodities supplier  Olam International Ltd.  It sold stakes in
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America Corp. and
London-based Barclays Plc at losses following the global
financial crisis. GIC has stakes in Citigroup Inc. and UBS AG.  Global Logistic’s IPO was the first listing by a firm
majority-owned by GIC, while sovereign wealth funds in Bahrain
and Qatar sold debt overseas for the first time.  “There is a broader push among sovereign investors to
diversify some of their funding sources,” said  Rachel Ziemba ,
senior analyst at Roubini Global Economics LLC in London. “For
entities like Temasek, they can’t necessarily depend on new
inflows of capital from their shareholder in the way that some
of the other sovereign funds do.”  Temasek, wholly owned by Singapore’s Ministry of Finance,
was set up in 1974, making it one of Asia’s oldest  state
investment arms . It generates assets from the income of the
companies it owns, and not government budget surpluses or oil
revenue.  Temasek Transformed  Helmed by Chief Executive Officer  Ho Ching , it is the
biggest shareholder in four of Singapore’s 10  biggest  listed
companies by market value and managed S$186 billion in assets as
of March 31. Ho, wife of Prime Minister  Lee Hsien Loong , has
transformed it from a passive holder of stakes in government-
controlled firms to an investor with more than two-thirds of
underlying assets abroad.  Having private bondholders or shareholders forces the firms
to improve transparency and backs their claims of having
“apolitical” investment strategies, said Victoria Barbary, a
senior analyst at Monitor Group in London, which collects data
on global sovereign wealth funds.  Temasek said in an open letter to the Australian media
dated Oct. 31 that it doesn’t interfere in the running of the
Singapore Exchange Ltd., after the bourse faced political
opposition to its A$8.4 billion ($8.1 billion) bid for ASX Ltd.,
Australia’s main exchange. Temasek indirectly  owns  about 23
percent of Singapore Exchange, according to Bloomberg data.  Mapletree, Keppel  Mapletree Investments Pte, the real-estate unit of Temasek,
plans to list Mapletree Commercial Trust by the first half of
next year, after Mapletree Industrial Trust raised S$1.19
billion in its October IPO.  Keppel Corp., the world’s largest oil-rig maker, was the
first firm that Temasek listed, in 1980. Temasek is the biggest
shareholder with a 22 percent stake, according to Bloomberg data.  Government of Singapore Investment Corp., established in
1981, in October listed  Global Logistic  to raise S$3.9 billion
in the city-state’s biggest IPO since 1993. GIC manages more
than $100 billion of Singapore’s reserves.  Almost five years after Temasek’s first sale of global
bonds in September 2005, Bahrain Mumtalakat Holding Co. sold
$750 million of bonds and Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment Co.,
the property unit of Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund, raised $3.5
billion in their first overseas debt sales.  Leverage  Raising debt brings leverage, allowing sovereign funds to
pursue strategies used by private equity to achieve higher
returns, said Teo.  Khazanah Nasional Bhd., Malaysia’s state investment company,
sold S$1.5 billion of Islamic bonds, its first in Singapore, in
August, just a week after it trumped India’s Fortis Healthcare
Ltd. in a takeover battle for Parkway Holdings Ltd., Asia’s
biggest hospital operator.  Temasek has said money raised from its debt sales would be
used by the company and its units “to fund their ordinary
course of business.”  The firms are under pressure to increase returns after the
value of their investments was battered by the global financial
crisis, Barbary said. Rather than “gamble” with state cash,
the funds can justify holdings of higher-risk assets by citing
the use of private money rather than the government’s, she said.  Boosting Returns  Net income at Temasek fell 26 percent to S$4.6 billion in
the year to March 31 from a year earlier because of lower profit
contributions from some portfolio companies. Abu Dhabi’s
Mubadala Development Co. reported a loss attributable to
shareholdings of 1.45 billion dirhams ($395 million) in the first
half of the year. Mumtalakat said its net loss for 2009 more
than doubled to 183 million dinars ($485 million) from 69
million dinars in 2008.  Temasek is providing a model for younger state wealth firms
formed in part to invest in government companies and prepare
them for privatization, such as four-year-old Mumtalakat and
 Khazanah , set up in 1993, said Barbary.  “Most of the way that they get their funds is from the
gradual privatization of these companies that they hold,” said
Ziemba. “This is something that we can see others emulating.”  Mubadala will consider listing the companies it is building
up once they have become “operational assets,” Chief Financial
Officer  Carlos Obeid  said on Nov. 3. Mubadala may issue more
debt following the sale of $1.75 billion of bonds last year,
though there are no immediate plans, he said.  ‘Trust Factor’  Raising private capital will enable Mubadala, which has
stakes in Carlyle Group and Sunnyvale, California-based
semiconductor maker  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. , to share the
“risks and rewards with other partners,” Obeid said.  “In a global business context, there’s an inherent trust
factor when you are viewed as being transparent and as someone
who is focused on value creation,” he said. “In addition to
leveraging our returns, raising debt from private investors
helps us in validating our commercial orientation and business
focus.”  Mumtalakat sold in November shares in Aluminium Bahrain
BSC, which operates an aluminum smelter in the Persian Gulf
country. The fund said in August it sold its 12.5 percent stake
in Bahrain Family Leisure Co. as part of a strategy to “realize
value from investments at an appropriate point in a company’s
growth cycle.”  Tenaga, MAS  Khazanah, the Malaysian government’s investment arm, will
sell its stake in Pos Malaysia Bhd., the national postal service,
Prime Minister  Najib Razak  said in March. Khazanah owns stakes
in the nation’s biggest companies, including Tenaga Nasional Bhd.
and Malaysian Airline System Bhd.  The transformation means investment firms will no longer be
solely accountable to the government and must take the interests
of private bondholders or shareholders into account, said
Monitor Group’s Barbary.  “They have to make sure that on an annual basis they are
making money, they are growing,” she said. “It will make them
more aggressive, less passive long-term investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Netty Ismail  in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  