-- Snoring, Nocturnal Restlessness May Predict Diabetes Risk, Researchers Say
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-12-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/snoring-nocturnal-restlessness-may-predict-diabetes-risk.html
People who snore, have trouble
falling asleep or who wake up in the morning feeling fatigued
have an increased risk of developing conditions tied to diabetes
and heart disease, a study found.  Adults who reported frequent  loud snoring  had twice the
risk of developing  metabolic syndrome  -- conditions that include
obesity, high blood pressure and diabetes -- in a three-year
follow-up, compared with quieter sleepers, according to a study
published in the journal  Sleep . The risk jumped 80 percent in
people who had difficulty falling asleep and 70 percent in those
who reported their sleep wasn’t refreshing.  Previous research has linked sleep duration and sleep
 apnea , in which patients have pauses in breathing while they
sleep, and the risk of individual components of metabolic 
syndrome. This report is the first to examine the relationship
between sleep problems commonly reported to doctors and
metabolic syndrome, said Wendy Troxel, an assistant professor 
of psychiatry and psychology at the University of Pittsburgh.   “Sleep problems aren’t just an annoyance but something
with potential major public health ramifications,” Troxel said
in a telephone interview. “Sleep complaints aren’t just the
problems of the ‘worried well,’ they could foreshadow
significant physical health problems.”  The study followed 812 people who didn’t have metabolic
syndrome at the beginning of the three-year period. The patients
underwent yearly checkups to determine whether they were
developing metabolic syndrome and sleep disturbances were
measured via a questionnaire.  Sleep Apnea  Loud snoring may be a problem for the heart independent of
its relationship with sleep apnea, the study showed. A sample of
290 patients were evaluated for sleep apnea and those without
were three times more likely to develop metabolic disease.  “Loud snoring independent of apnea has adverse
consequences,” Troxel said.  This may be because vibrations from snoring damage the
layer of cells that line the inner part of blood vessels,
triggering inflammation, Troxel said.  The study doesn’t show whether sleep problems cause
metabolic syndrome, since researchers didn’t manipulate
patients’ sleep. Further studies are needed to determine if
sleep disorders and snoring cause metabolic syndrome, or are
symptomatic of it, Troxel said.  For instance, difficulty falling asleep could reflect
stress, which is a known risk factor for cardiovascular disease,
Troxel said.  “These symptoms may happen in people who don’t experience
insomnia as a syndrome,” Troxel said. “If you’re experiencing
these symptoms three times or more a week, you should address it
with your primary care provider.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 