-- Airports Closed, Trains Canceled as Winter Storms Drive Snow Across Europe
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2010-12-01T16:20:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/snow-frost-icy-weather-continues-to-disrupt-air-travel-in-u-k-germany.html
Severe winter weather continued to
disrupt travel across Europe as snowfall shut down airports in
Geneva, London and Edinburgh and Eurostar trains connecting the
U.K. to the continent were canceled.  Gatwick airport, the U.K.’s second-busiest, will remain
closed until at least tomorrow morning, according to its
 website . The main runway at Frankfurt airport was closed because
of strong tailwinds, Stefanie Wagener, a spokeswoman for
operator Fraport AG, said by phone. Geneva airport closed last
night and won’t open until at least 6 a.m. tomorrow, with Bern
closed until 8 p.m. tonight and Basel until at least 5:30 p.m.  “We’ve had an incredible quantity of snow and it’s still
falling,” said Geneva airport spokesman Bertrand Staempfli.  The earliest widespread snowfall in Britain since 1993 has
frozen over roads, disrupting traffic, with freezing weather
likely to last until at least Dec. 8, according to British
Weather Services. Roads are also frozen over across Germany, and
new snow clouds are moving in from the south, Robert Scholz, a
spokesman for the German Weather Service, said by phone.
Temperatures in Berlin are set to slump to minus 11 degrees
Celsius (12 degrees Fahrenheit) during the night.  Snowfall around Newcastle in northeast England totalled as
much as 34 centimeters (13.4 inches) this morning, while the
London area received as much as 10 centimeters, Scholz said.
Gatwick airport had a snowfall of 15 centimeters, according to
its Twitter account.  Geneva, Edinburgh  Towns in the Luebeck bay area were among the hardest-hit in
Germany with as much as 27 centimeters of snow, while more is
expected during the night. Geneva airport was covered in 22
centimeters of snow this morning, which may rise to 30
centimeters today, said Dean Gill, a Meteosuisse weather
forecaster.  Edinburgh airport is closed at least until the end of
today, operator  BAA Ltd.  said on its website. Sky News reported
that Scotland’s busiest airport would be closed until 6 a.m.
local time tomorrow.  Eurostar Group Ltd., which runs the high-speed trains
between London, Paris and Brussels, canceled eight departures
today because of weather conditions, according to its  website ,
with speed reductions on other trains, causing delays of as much
as 90 minutes. Former Chief Executive Officer  Richard Brown 
stepped down after the failure of locomotives in a blizzard last
winter.  ‘Mismanagement’  At Frankfurt, about 60 flights were called off as planes
were stuck at other airports last night, Wagener said.
Deutsche Lufthansa AG, Europe’s second-largest airline, said
Fraport’s “mismanagement” of de-icing and ground-handling
capacities were causing problems. The airport has experienced
snow-related delays since Nov. 26.  British Airways Plc  said it canceled flights to New York
from London City Airport, while the carrier’s planes out of its
Heathrow hub were departing normally.  Lyon Saint-Exupery airport was closed to arrivals this
morning as incoming flights were diverted to Marseille because
of low visibility,  Agence France-Presse  reported. Runway de-
icing teams were on standby for a renewed onslaught of bad
weather, according to the airport’s website. Paris’s Charles de
Gaulle and Orly airports are still operating normally.  Deutsche Bahn AG , Europe’s largest train operator, said
some of its long-distance and regional trains were canceled or
delayed as snow was being blown onto tracks. The company has
capped velocity for its high-speed trains to 200 km/h, said a
spokeswoman, who asked not to be named because of company
policy. She declined to say how many trains were affected.  Power for next-day delivery in the U.K., Europe’s biggest
gas user, rose as much as 35 percent to its highest level since
January 2009 today as natural gas costs increased and the
weather conditions boosted demand. French day-ahead electricity
jumped to its highest level in five weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  