-- Snow Forces Eurostar Train Cancellations, Evoking Last Winter's Rail Chaos
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-12-01T10:31:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/snow-forces-eurostar-train-cancellations-evoking-last-winter-s-rail-chaos.html
Snow storms in southern Britain led
 Eurostar Group Ltd.  to cancel six trains through the Channel
Tunnel, less than a year after the failure of locomotives in a
blizzard led the company’s chief executive officer to step down.  Eurostar scrapped four services between London and Paris
and two between the U.K. capital and Brussels, citing speed
restrictions imposed because of the snowfall. Customers who
still wish to travel will be accommodated on the next train
where seats are available and remaining services will run about
half an hour late, according to the company’s website.  “If the situation deteriorates it may be that we need to
cancel a few more services,” spokesman Leigh Calder said, adding
that Eurostar has spent 30 million pounds ($47 million) since
last winter to upgrade its trains and improve customer
communications in the Channel Tunnel in the event of delays.  Britain is experiencing the earliest widespread snow since
1993, with blizzards that began in Scotland last month extending
to southeast England yesterday. Eurostar was the highest-profile
casualty of last winter’s cold snap, the U.K.’s longest since
1981, in which more than a foot of snow cloaked the country.
Five trains carrying 2,000 passengers were trapped in the tunnel
on Dec. 18 after snow disabled their electrics, with 90,000 more
stranded at stations. The system failed again on Jan. 7.  ‘Lessons Learned’  “We have invested a huge amount of money over the course of
the year to make our trains snow-ready,” Calder said. “We know
we let our customers down last year and we have learnt lessons.”  Today’s cancellations are the result of “precautionary”
speed restrictions in the U.K. and northern France that are
necessary to ensure all remaining trains can operate, he said.  The company has scrapped the 6:59 a.m. Brussels-London
service and the 5:27 p.m. trip in the opposite direction,
together with the 7:27 a.m. and 4:55 p.m. London-Paris trains
and the 9:13 a.m. and 6:43 p.m. Paris-London legs.  Passengers scheduled to travel on cancelled trains are
eligible for a full refund and those who can’t make it to the
station for trains that are running will be able to swap their
tickets for travel at a later date, according to Eurostar.  A report into last winter’s breakdown said Eurostar’s 186-
mile-an-hour (300 kmph) locomotives were insufficiently prepared
for cold weather and that the company had neglected maintenance
of seals that allowed snow to penetrate electrical systems.  Eurostar’s procedures for evacuating people from the tunnel
were also inadequate and it failed to communicate sufficiently
with customers stranded at stations, according to the study,
compiled by  Christopher Garnett , former CEO of U.K. rail company
GNER, and French government transport official  Claude Gressier .  Eurostar chief  Richard Brown  said he accepted the findings
and left the top job to focus on implementing the review’s
recommendations before taking over as chairman. Chief Operating
Officer  Nicolas Petrovic  became CEO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  