-- Snow Hits French High-Speed Train Services, Blocks Lyon Airport Arrivals
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2010-12-01T09:46:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/snow-hits-french-high-speed-train-services-blocks-lyon-airport-arrivals.html
Heavy snow disrupted high-speed train
services in central France and forced the Lyon Saint-Exupery
airport near the edge of the Alps to divert arriving planes.  France prepared for worsening transport disruption today as
the national weather agency Meteo France predicted severe
snowfalls later in the afternoon and overnight.  Lyon Saint-Exupery airport was closed to arrivals this
morning as incoming flights were diverted to Marseille because
of low visibility,  Agence France-Presse  reported. Runway de-
icing teams were on standby for a renewed onslaught of bad
weather, according to the airport’s  Web site . Paris’s Charles de
Gaulle and Orly airports are still operating normally.  Snowfalls are expected to intensify from around 4:00 p.m.,
according to a forecast on the  Meteo France  agency’s Web site.  Emergency services were on alert for further disruption in
17 central and eastern districts after snow blocked roads
overnight, stranding motorists and an estimated 7,200 truck
drivers as the town of Orleans recorded a temperature of -15.3
degrees Celsius, the lowest on record for November or December
since 1946.  The  SNCF  national railway said today it had limited top
speeds to 160 kmh (100 miles per hour) on some stretches of its
high-speed line through central France, leading to delays of up
to 90 minutes for trains between Paris, Lyon and Marseille.  Eurostar, Power  Eurostar Group Ltd. also cancelled six of its Channel
Tunnel passenger services linking London to Paris and Brussels
and introduced speed restrictions for the rest.  Electricite de France SA ’s power grid is expecting record
demand today and tomorrow amid the cold snap that has increased
the country’s reliance on imports.  Temperatures will plunge to as much as 10 degrees below
normal tomorrow, Reseau de Transport d’Electricite, EDF’s wholly
owned grid operator, said on its Web site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 