-- South Africa Intensifies AIDS Campaign as New HIV Infections Start to Slow
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-12-01T12:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/south-africa-starts-to-make-progress-in-campaign-against-aids.html
South Africa is stepping up an anti-
AIDS campaign that is slowing the spread of HIV, which affects
5.7 million of its citizens, more than any other nation, and
hampers growth of Africa’s biggest economy.  The number of people receiving AIDS drugs at public
hospitals has more than doubled to about 1 million since 2008,
the year the ruling African National Congress ousted  Thabo Mbeki 
as the nation’s president. Unlike Mbeki, President  Jacob Zuma 
took a public test for the human immunodeficiency virus that
causes AIDS, saying he hoped “to eradicate the silence and
stigma that accompanies this epidemic.”  With AIDS curbing economic growth by as much as 1.5
percentage points a year, according to the  Business Coalition on
HIV/AIDS , the government used World Aids Day today to announce
it is accelerating a plan to test 15 million people for HIV by
June. The project was slowed by the hosting of the World Cup
soccer tournament and a nurses’ strike this year.  “There’s a lot more openness around accepting the
magnitude of the problem,” Dorothy Mbori-Ngacha, the  United
Nations Children’s Fund ’s senior HIV/AIDS specialist for eastern
and southern Africa, said in a Nov. 23 interview in
Johannesburg. “How long until you get a serious reversal? It’s
going to take a long time.”  About 190,000 South Africans are likely to die from AIDS-
related illnesses this year, down 10,000 to 15,000 from 2009 and
70,000 to 80,000 from the peak in 2006, preliminary figures from
the University of Cape Town’s  Centre for Actuarial Research 
show.  ‘Noticeable Drop’  “There has been quite a noticeable drop in the number of
deaths, which is probably due to the fairly extensive roll-out
of anti-retroviral drugs,” Rob Dorrington, the center’s
director, said on Nov. 29.  The government has increased the number of facilities
accredited to dispense the AIDS drugs and trained more than
3,000 nurses to administer them, Deputy President  Kgalema Motlanthe  said today.  Since April, South Africa has embarked on the “largest
testing campaign ever undertaken,” he told a World AIDS Day
rally at Mkhondo in the eastern Mpumalanga province. As of
yesterday, about 4.7 million people had taken an HIV test and
more than 800,000 tested positive, he said, while 5.5 million
people received counseling.  ‘Take Responsibility’  “I would like to challenge those who do not know their HIV
status to take responsibility, to be tested,” he said.  The cost of South Africa’s AIDS programs may escalate to as
much as 35 billion rand ($4.9 billion) in the year through March
2016, from about 16 billion rand last year, according to a
government-commissioned study released last month by the Cape
Town-based  Centre for Economic Governance and AIDS in Africa  and
the Washington-based  Results for Development Institute .  Even with the most aggressive anti-AIDS program, 5 million
new infections are likely over the next two decades, according
to the report.  “The HIV/AIDS epidemic is deeply entrenched in South
Africa, having already reached levels that make a complete
reversal extremely difficult, if not impossible, in the coming
years,” according to the study.  Garlic, Olive Oil  Mbeki’s administration resisted the provision of anti-
retroviral drugs, saying they were expensive and potentially
toxic. His health minister,  Manto Tshabalala-Msimang , urged
those with AIDS to eat garlic, beetroot and olive oil and backed
the use of traditional medicines to combat the disease.  The lack of government action prompted Anglo American Plc,
the largest investor in South African mining, and several other
companies to provide free treatment to their workers. It was
more cost-effective than having to train replacements for those
who died or were too sick to work, they said.  The failure to provide treatment may have caused the
premature deaths of more than 330,000 people from 2000 to 2005,
according to a  2008 study  by researchers at the Harvard School
of Public Health.  Anti-retrovirals both tackle AIDS and prevent its
transmission from mother to unborn child. South Africa is one of
a handful of countries where maternal and child mortality has
increased since the 1990s, with AIDS accounting for 35 percent
of deaths in children under the age of 5, the  Joint United
Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS  said in its annual report.  After Mbeki left “we got in people in the Ministry of
Health who had the commitment, who understood what the issues
were, who had zest,” Nonkosi Khumalo, chairwoman of the
 Treatment Action Campaign , the country’s main AIDS activist
group, told reporters in Johannesburg on Nov. 22. “That spirit
continues even now. It shows how far South Africa has come as a
country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 