-- South African PMI Climbs Above 50, Indicating Expansion in Manufacturing
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-12-01T09:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/south-african-pmi-climbs-above-50-indicating-expansion-in-manufacturing.html
South Africa’s  purchasing managers’
index  climbed above 50 in November, indicating an expansion in
manufacturing output and a strengthening in the economy’s
recovery,  Kagiso Securities Ltd.  said.  The seasonally adjusted index rose to 52.9 from 49.8 in
October, Johannesburg-based Kagiso said in an e-mailed statement
today. The index had been below 50, indicating a contraction in
factory output, for the past two months.  Manufacturing , which accounts for 15 percent of the
economy, has been slow to recover from last year’s recession,
limiting growth in Africa’s biggest  economy  to 2.6 percent in
the third quarter. The Reserve Bank has cut its benchmark
interest  rate  three times this year to 5.5 percent, the lowest
in three decades, to help spur consumer spending and growth.  “A further encouraging development is that the purchasing
managers expect the improved conditions to persist,” Theo
Vorster, a director at Kagiso, said in the statement.  The index measuring business activity climbed to 54.8 in
November from 48.7 in the previous month, while the new sales
orders sub-index increased 5 points to 56.5, Kagiso said.  Manufacturers also slowed the pace of job-shedding last
month, the survey showed. While the employment sub-index was
still below 50, indicating the industry was cutting jobs, it
rose to 47.6 from 44.8 in October. South Africa’s  unemployment
rate  of 25.3 percent is the highest of 62 countries tracked by
Bloomberg.  The  Bureau for Economic Research , based at the University
of Stellenbosch near Cape Town, and the Institute of Purchasing
and Supply South Africa conduct the PMI survey on behalf of
Kagiso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 