-- Spain Sells Stake in Lottery, Eliminates Jobless Benefit to Tackle Deficit
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-12-01T13:38:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/spain-to-sell-stake-in-state-lottery-eliminate-jobless-benefit-next-month.html
Spain stepped up efforts to fight
contagion from Europe’s debt crisis, saying it will sell stakes
in its lottery and aiport-operating businesses to raise 14
billion euros ($18.3 billion) and ax a one-time jobless benefit.  The government, which said in January it had no plans to
sell the lottery, will dispose of 30 percent of the company,
Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  said in Parliament
in Madrid today. It will also allow the Madrid and Barcelona
airports to be privately managed and let investors buy as much
as 49 percent of a new operating company, Aena-Aeropuertos. The
sales will raise around 14 billion euros, said a government
official who declined to be named in line with policy.  An extraordinary jobless payment of about 420 euros per
month, which benefits about  200,000  people whose contributions-
based unemployment pay has ended, will be allowed to expire in
February, Zapatero said. The Socialist government introduced the
measure in August 2009 amid a surge in  unemployment , which was
Europe’s highest in October at 20.7 percent.  Spain is trying to distance itself from other so-called
peripheral countries after Ireland’s bailout pushed the extra
yield on Spanish debt to the highest since the creation of the
euro. The measures will help plug the third-largest  budget
deficit  in the euro region, which was 11 percent of gross
domestic product last year and which the government says it will
cut to 6 percent in 2011 in an “unconditional” pledge.  ‘Unthinkable’  “We’re seeing the government announcing things that,
certainly a few months ago, it was unthinkable that they would
announce,”  Banco Sabadell SA  Chief Executive Officer  Jaime Guardiola  said at a news conference in Madrid today. “This is
going to be the day-to-day reality of this country because of
this external pressure.”  Spain’s Loterias y Apuestas del Estado had a net profit of
2.99 billion euros in 2009, up 3.5 percent from a year earlier,
and channeled 2.92 billion euros to the Treasury, according to
its annual report. Sales were 9.84 billion euros.  The privatization of 30 percent “initially” will be
carried out as part of a new gaming law, Zapatero’s office said
in a  statement . The government is in negotiations with the
industry and regional governments with a view to drafting the
bill by the end of the year that will regulate online gaming,
said a finance ministry official who declined to be named.  “If Spain were to approve online gambling, that brand
could be quite valuable, because they could cross-sell
customers,” said  Karl Burns , a Shore Capital analyst in
Liverpool, U.K. He estimates the stake could be worth 4.5
billion euros to 9 billion euros, based on the value of European
online gambling companies.  ‘Whatever it Costs’  Zapatero, a Socialist union member who had made social
policies a priority since coming to power in 2004, has said he
will take whatever measures are necessary to pull Spain out of
the worst crisis in six decades “whatever it costs.”  His austerity program, which includes a 5 percent cut to
public wages and the deepest budget cuts in at least 30 years,
has eroded his popularity and his Socialist Party was defeated
in regional elections in Catalonia on Nov. 28.  “It may improve the chances of the government meeting its
deficit-reduction goal for 2011, but it seems unlikely to be
enough to calm the market’s fears,” said  Ben May , an economist
at Capital Economics Ltd. in London.  Bond Reaction  Investors punished Europe’s markets in the two days after
Ireland became the second euro nation after Greece to get a
European rescue package. Selling extended from Portugal to Italy
and Belgium, while the euro fell to a 10-week low versus the
dollar and yen yesterday.  The euro rose against the dollar today, trading at $1.3105
at 1:34 p.m. in London, amid speculation that the European
Central Bank may signal its willingness after a meeting tomorrow
to take steps to stem the crisis. The extra  yield  on Spanish 10-
year bonds compared with German equivalents fell to 249 basis
points today from 283 basis points yesterday.  The European Commission welcomed Spain’s “new concrete
measures,” spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj  said in Brussels today.  The package of new measures to be approved at a cabinet
meeting on Dec. 3 also reduces taxes for small companies, scraps
compulsory contributions to chambers of commerce, makes it
easier and quicker to form companies, and regulates the role of
private job-placement agencies, the prime minister’s office said
in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  