-- Starbucks Plans Acquisitions to Build Grocery Business
-- B y   B u r t   H e l m
-- 2010-12-01T21:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/starbucks-plans-acquisitions-to-build-grocery-business-ceo-schultz-says.html
Starbucks Corp. , the world’s largest
coffee-shop operator, plans to buy companies to build up its
grocery business, Chief Executive Officer  Howard Schultz  said.  The Seattle-based company will look at purchases “large
and small,” Schultz said today at an event in New York.  Starbucks has introduced its Via single-serve coffee
product in more locations as Schultz, 57, aims to get a bigger
percentage of sales from grocery stores. Last month, Starbucks
decided to scrap a 12-year packaged-coffee distribution
agreement with  Kraft Foods Inc.  Northfield, Illinois-based Kraft
is fighting Starbucks’s efforts with arbitration proceedings.  “There’s no question inorganic growth will be a bigger
part of our next 10 years than it has been of our previous 10
years,” Chief Financial Officer  Troy Alstead  said during the
event.  Acquisitions could include brands “close to what we’re
about,” as well as products complementary to coffee, such as
Starbucks’s previous acquisitions of Seattle’s Best Coffee and
Tazo Teas, Alstead said.  Peet’s Coffee & Tea Inc.  could be a potential target,
Stifel, Nicolaus & Co. said in a report yesterday.  “When Starbucks and Kraft part ways, Peet’s could be a
nice fit to deliver Starbucks into the distribution business,”
the research firm said.  Peet’s doesn’t comment on speculation, said spokeswoman
Nicole Arena. Shares of the Emeryville, California-based company
rose $3.27, or 8.6 percent, to $41.40 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Foot Traffic  Starbucks profit almost doubled last  quarter , helped by
increasing Via sales and foot traffic in stores. Sales climbed
about 10 percent in the year ended Oct. 3, topping $10 billion.
The chain had about $1.16 billion in  cash  and cash equivalents
as of that date, almost double that a year earlier.  Starbucks rose $1.10 to $31.70 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The shares have gained 37 percent
this year, compared with a 23 percent increase in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 GICS Consumer Discretionary Sector Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Burt Helm in New York at 
 bhelm3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  