-- Sudan Plans to Start Pumping Oil in Darfur, Petroleum Minister Deng Says
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2010-12-01T11:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/sudan-plans-to-start-pumping-oil-in-darfur-petroleum-minister-deng-says.html
Sudan  is drilling its first oil well
in the western region of Darfur, the site of a seven-year war,
as part of its bid to boost output in sub-Saharan Africa’s
third-biggest producer of crude, the petroleum minister said.  “If things are going well, even by December next year,
there’s nothing to prevent us from having 600,000” barrels a
day, Lual Deng said in an interview in Sudan’s capital,
Khartoum. Sudan now pumps about 450,000 barrels a day, he said.  Six new wells in  Southern Kordofan state , which borders
Darfur, are being connected today to Sudan’s main export
pipeline, adding 30,000 barrels per day, he said yesterday.  A group of companies including China’s biggest oil and gas
producer,  China National Petroleum Co. , and Sudan’s state-run
oil company, Sudapet, are drilling the well in Block 6, which
extends across South Darfur state into Southern Kordofan, Deng
said. Production results from the well are expected on Dec. 15,
and there are plans for 19 more wells, he said.  Conflict erupted in Darfur in 2003, when rebels took up
arms against the government in Khartoum, accusing it of
neglecting the region.  The conflict has led to the death of as many as 300,000
people, mainly due to illness and starvation, and forced about
2.7 million people to flee their homes, according to  United
Nations  estimates. The government puts the death toll at about
10,000.  Exploration Studies  In North Darfur state, the Greater Sahara Petroleum
Operating Co., which includes Sudapet and  Ansan Wikfs 
(Hadramaut) Ltd., is carrying out exploration studies in Block
12A, Deng said. The oil ministry is also evaluating applications
for investment in Block 12B in South Darfur state, Deng said,
without giving details.  The main rebel group in the region, the Justice and
Equality Movement, said it would attack oil companies in Darfur.  “We are officially threatening the Chinese and anyone else
who shall try to extract oil from this region,” El  Taher El Feki , chairman of JEM’s legislative council, said in a telephone
interview from London yesterday. “The government uses economic
revenue from oil products to buy weapons against our people in
Darfur.”  The  International Criminal Court  has issued arrest
warrants for President  Umar al-Bashir , accusing him of
responsibility for genocide and war crimes in Darfur. He denies
the charges.  Sudan also plans to start oil production next year in Block
17, which extends across Southern Kordofan and South Darfur
states and is run by Ansan Wikfs and Sudapet, Deng said.  Southern Referendum  The wells in Southern Kordofan and South Darfur states will
remain in the north if oil-producing Southern Sudan votes in a
Jan. 9 to secede from the country and form an independent
nation. Southern Sudan currently accounts for about 80 percent
of Sudan’s total production.  The referendum is the climax of a 2005  peace accord  that
ended a two-decade civil war, in which as many as 2 million
people died, between Sudan’s Muslim north and the south, where
Christianity and traditional beliefs dominate.  The landlocked south and the north, which has the country’s
only oil refineries and export port in the Red Sea state, will
have to reach a new agreement on how to share oil revenue if
Southern Sudan secedes, Deng said. The two sides currently split
proceeds from oil pumped in the south.  “It is a win-win situation. It’s not a zero sum game,”
said Deng, a southerner and member of the  Sudan People’s
Liberation Movement , which governs the south. “The leaderships
on both sides know that oil ties them together. There has to be
an agreement as not to disrupt the production.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alan Boswell  in Juba via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
 Maram Mazen  in Khartoum via the Cairo newsroom at 
8507 or  mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 