-- Sufjan Stevens Gets His Wings, Glasser, Mesirow Add Midi Magic
-- B y   J a i m e   W i d d e r
-- 2010-12-01T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/sufjan-stevens-gets-his-wings-glasser-s-mesirow-adds-midi-december-music.html
Not quite as comely as the underwear
angels of  Victoria’s Secret , Sufjan Stevens wore wings for his
entrance at the sold-out  Beacon Theatre  show on Nov. 15.  He had a banjo in hand, an 11-piece band behind him,
balloons hanging overhead and beachballs loitering onstage. He
began by softly singing “Seven Swans,” the title track to his
2004 album.  The first among his many wardrobe changes, prefaced by the
line “I am your entertainment for the evening,” was a silver
jacket, the instrument a guitar, the cut “Too Much” from his
latest album, “The Age of Adz.” Strings and horns accompanied,
lasers and beeps offered punctuation. Stevens shed the guitar
and began to dance.  The new album moves in an electronic, orchestral direction,
and its tunes dominated this night. For the title track, baton
twirlers graced the stage as outer-space images were projected
on screens.  As the triumphal number moved from mellow to grand,
Stevens’s gentle yet powerful voice always remained the focus.  The voice got another strong outing as he grabbed an
acoustic guitar for the folky “Heirloom,” one of the few songs
he played from his 2010 EP “All Delighted People.” He also did
a stripped-down take on “Futile Devices.”  The finale was a grandiose 25-minute-plus rendition of
“Impossible Soul,” evolving from blissful pop to something
spacey for the repeated phrase “don’t be distracted.”  For this Stevens donned a foil turban and sunglasses and
sang like a  Conehead . Then he moved through layers of neon-
colored beachwear, he and the dancers moved joyously, and on
came the contagious chorus of “it’s not so impossible.” The
crowd stood as hundreds of balloons dropped on them and
beachballs were kicked from the stage.  Glasser’s Mesirow  The next night I was over in Brooklyn at the  Music Hall of
Williamsburg  to see up-and-coming indie group Glasser, led by
vocalist Cameron Mesirow. The debut record, “Ring,” is a
collage of hypnotic, tribal, dark, beautiful pop, and one of
2010’s most audibly intriguing albums.  Her backing trio, in matching green jumpsuits, filled the
dimly lit room with dark sounds before Mesirow graced the stage
in a long, flowing red dress and began to sing the opening lines
to “Apply.”  Her explosive vocals got a better workout on the jangly
“Treasure of We,” and the band began to reveal its artistry.
Through Midi controls, instruments were altered to produce new
sounds.  Jason McMahon’s guitar took on a bubbly calypso flavor
while Jon Leland’s drums sounded like tribal shakers. Mesirow’s
elegant voice swooned back and forth as it reverberated through
the speakers.  Knees Buckled  Given the album’s orchestral production values, Glasser
does an impeccable job in its live re-creation. Knees buckled
when the band took on set closer “Mirrorage,” a fast-paced
number with clinking hip-hop beats that packed a punch.  Her vocals were just as big and at times tweaked with a
digital effect before being looped as the band left the stage.  Returning alone for the encore, Cameron stood with a single
light upon her, arms behind her back, and sang the traditional
folk song “Let No Man Steal Your Thyme.” It was a deviation
from the set full of modern music, yet a reminder, too, of the
lady’s range.  For the month of December, local indie pioneer Yo La Tengo
return to  Maxwell’s  for their traditional eight-night run from
Dec. 1 through 8. Weezer will be showcasing its roots on Dec. 17
and 18 at  Roseland Ballroom , recreating its ‘90s classic albums,
“Blue Album” & “Pinkerton” from start to finish. Finally we
have Prince showing how funk and rock blend with shows at the
Izod Center on Dec. 14, 15 and 17, and at  Madison Square Garden 
on Dec. 18 and 29.  Here’s a selection of New York-area shows in December.
Please note that opening bands aren’t always listed. Shows
marked (SO) are sold out, although online services such as
Craigslist often have tickets:  ( Jaime Widder  works in sales for Bloomberg News. Any
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Jaime Widder in New York at 
 jwidder@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 