-- Sukuk Backed by Airport, Utility Revenue Favored by Funds: Islamic Finance
-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2010-12-02T07:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/sukuk-backed-by-airport-utility-revenue-favored-by-funds-islamic-finance.html
Islamic bonds that pay returns based
on cash flows from airports and utilities rather than income
from property may stay in favor in the coming year after a drop
in Persian Gulf real-estate prices shook investor confidence.  Saudi Electricity Co.’s 7 billion-riyal ($1.9 billion)
sukuk sold in May was underwritten by income from fees such as
connection charges, according to its prospectus. Nomura Holdings
Inc., Japan’s largest brokerage, sold Islamic debt in Malaysia
in July using aircraft as the underlying asset. Pakistan raised
51.8 billion rupees ($605 million) in a Nov. 8 Islamic bond sale
linked to the  Jinnah Terminal  at Karachi’s Quaid-e-Azam
International Airport.  The 50 percent decline in real-estate prices in Dubai from
their peak in mid-2008 contributed to a 31 percent retreat this
year in global sales of Islamic debt that pay asset returns to
comply with the religion’s ban on interest. Offerings are
picking up following an agreement by Dubai World, one of the
emirate’s three main state-owned holding companies, in September
to reschedule debt payments.  “With new bonds coming after debt restructuring in the
Gulf, investors will be keen to know the quality of businesses
and what kind of cash flows they generate,”  Esther Teo , who
helps manage the equivalent of $2.9 billion of Islamic and non-
Islamic funds at Kuala Lumpur-based HwangDBS Investment
Management Bhd., said in an interview yesterday. “The asset
linked to a sukuk is important given the way it is structured
and after the default concerns in the Middle East.”  Upcoming Issues  Saudi Arabian Oil Co. and Total SA, Europe’s third-biggest
oil company, plan to sell $1 billion of sukuk this year in a
joint issue,  Simon Eedle , global head of Islamic banking at
Credit Agricole SA, the lead arranger, said in Abu Dhabi in
October. Nakheel PJSC, the developer of palm-shaped islands off
Dubai’s coast, may issue sukuk to its trade creditors in the
first quarter,  Faisal Mikou , executive vice president at the
Investment Corp. of Dubai, said in the emirate on Nov. 28.  The Palestine Monetary Authority will offer Islamic debt
for the first time in 2011. The central bank may sell as much as
$50 million of notes to jump-start the territory’s Shariah-
compliant finance industry and raise funds to construct its
headquarters, Governor  Jihad al-Wazir  said in an interview in
Ramallah on Nov. 25.  Sukuk sales dropped to $13.7 billion this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Offerings from the Gulf
Cooperation Council, which comprises Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman,
Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, declined 40
percent to $4 billion in 2010 from the same period last year.  ‘Out of Favor’  “Real estate continues to be out of favor, particularly in
the Gulf Cooperation Council countries,”  Rafael Martinez Dalmau ,
the Singapore-based head of Shariah-compliant portfolio
management at BNP Paribas SA, said in an interview in Kuala
Lumpur yesterday.  KPJ Healthcare Bhd ., a Malaysian healthcare provider, plans
to sell as much as 500 million ringgit ($159 million) of sukuk
to refinance debt and fund its capital spending needs, according
to a company statement on Nov. 12. The debt is linked to funds
from its Real Estate Industrial Trust,  Alvin Lee Swee Hee , the
chief financial officer, wrote in an e-mail today.  Malaysia Airports Capital Bhd. plans to sell as much as 1
billion ringgit of 12-year Islamic notes to yield around 4.6
percent to 4.8 percent as soon as tomorrow, according to a
person familiar with the matter. The offering may grow in size
to be more than 1 billion ringgit, another person requesting not
to be identified said Nov. 23.  “We want issuers to meet their liabilities from cash flows
they generate from their businesses rather than by selling that
asset,”  Sajjad Anwar , who helps manage the equivalent of $160
million of Islamic and non-Islamic funds at NBP Fullerton Asset
Management Ltd., said in a Nov. 30 phone interview from Karachi.
“Collateral based on real estate or a piece of land was popular,
but it was not likely to be a long-term solution.”  Valuation Concerns  Shariah-compliant bonds returned 11.1 percent this year,
according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index.  Debt
in emerging markets gained 13.1 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Diversified Index shows.  The  difference  between the average yield for emerging-
market sukuk and the London interbank offered rate narrowed 11
basis points yesterday to 350 points, according to the
HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index.  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due June
2015 was little changed today after rising 11 basis points
yesterday, according to prices from Royal Bank of Scotland Group.
It has climbed from a record low of 2.33 percent on Nov. 4. The
yield on Dubai’s 6.396 percent sukuk due November 2014 rose four
basis points this week to 6.78 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  ‘Adversely Affected’  The extra yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s government
sukuk rather than Malaysia’s was little changed today at 384,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “In asset-backed sukuk, or sukuk that is secured with
assets either through a true sale or as collateral, if that
asset has reduced in value by so much percent, irrespective of
what nature of instrument you have, that instrument will be
adversely affected,”  Yavar Moini , senior adviser for global
capital markets at Morgan Stanley in Dubai, said in an interview
in Kuala Lumpur yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net ;
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 