-- U.K. Clashes With EU Regulators on Supervision of Foreign Banks in London
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2010-12-01T13:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/u-k-clashes-with-european-regulators-over-bank-liquidity-supervision-plan.html
The U.K. is clashing with European
Union authorities over its right to police the liquidity of
London branches of foreign lenders in the wake of the collapse
of Iceland’s banking system.  The European Commission is proposing to shift powers for
regulating bank branches’ liquidity away from authorities where
they are located to the lender’s home nation. The U.K. is
concerned that this could leave its regulators unable to protect
British depositors in a crisis.  Britain is calling for “appropriate safeguards for host
supervisors to ensure financial stability in their
jurisdiction,” the U.K. Treasury said in an e-mailed statement.
The U.K. is “working closely” with the commission and other
governments “to achieve this goal.”  Regulators are seeking ways to prevent a repeat of events
in 2008 when depositors in the U.K and the Netherlands lost
money with branches of failed lender Landsbanki Islands hf. The
Netherlands, U.K., and Iceland have struggled to agree on
repayment terms for the $5.2 billion needed to cover the
depositor losses.  The U.K has support from central and eastern Europe for
allowing host country regulators to retain emergency powers over
foreign branches’ liquidity, restricting their ability to shift
money and take deposits.  The commission says responsibility for policing liquidity
is best concentrated with a bank’s main supervisor.  Appropriate Control  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services commissioner,
favors measures to “align” supervision of liquidity with that
of capital, said  Chantal Hughes , his spokeswoman at the
Brussels-based commission. Host supervisors would be left with
“appropriate control.”  Lenders “generally support” the commission approach, the
European Banking Federation said in an e-mailed statement.
Reporting “to the home supervisor rather than to all countries
where it has a presence,” would reduce the burden on lenders,
it said.  “Whenever host supervisors become too proactive, I think
it can actually have a negative effect on the real or perceived
stability of a group by locking in liquidity in branches,”
said  Anders Kvist , head of group treasury at Sweden’s SEB AB
bank.  SEB has 193 branches in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania,
according to information on the company’s website.  “The concerns of host regulators are understandable but
sound branch liquidity management can be best achieved by
harnessing the group’s strength,” Kvist said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Brunsden  in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 