-- U.K. Home-Rental Gauge Signals Third Straight Quarterly Gain, RICS Says
-- B y   T i m   B a r w e l l
-- 2010-12-01T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/u-k-home-rents-increase-for-third-straight-quarter-rics-says.html
U.K. residential rents rose for the
third straight quarter as more people chose to become tenants
rather than buying properties, according to a gauge published by
the  Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors .  The number of real estate brokers saying rents increased
exceeded those reporting declines by 39 percent in the three
months through October, RICS said today. That’s the most since
the second quarter of 2007. In the three months through July, 27
percent more brokers reported increases than drops.  U.K.  mortgage approvals  fell to an eight-month low in
October to about half the level they were at the beginning of
2007, according to the Bank of England. Lenders have restricted
mortgages for buyers who purchase homes with the intention of
renting them out, limiting the properties available to tenants.  “With both buy-to-let and traditional mortgages in short
supply and now with concern about prices, people have come
back” to the rental market, said  Simon Rubinsohn , chief
economist for RICS. “It’s simple supply and demand, and there
is more uncertainty around with people losing jobs in the public
sector.”  Demand for house rentals outstripped apartments and 34
percent more respondents predicted higher rents overall in the
next quarter than those who forecast a decline.  U.K. consumer confidence fell to a 19-month low in October
as Britons faced the deepest budget cuts since World War II,
Nationwide Building Society said on Nov. 12. House prices have
fallen for five months in a row, according to Hometrack Ltd.  The survey was based on responses from 152 individuals or
companies in the U.K. rentals industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Barwell  in London on 
 tbarwell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 