-- U.K. Manufacturing Expands at Fastest Pace in 16 Years Amid Export Orders
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2010-12-01T09:54:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/u-k-manufacturing-index-jumps-to-16-year-high-as-weak-pound-fuels-exports.html
U.K.  manufacturing  growth
unexpectedly accelerated to the fastest pace in 16 years in
November as export orders climbed.  A gauge based on a survey of companies by Markit Economics
and the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply rose to 58
from 55.4 in October, according to an e-mailed statement today
in London. The median forecast of 24 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey was for 54.7. A measure above 50 indicates
expansion.  A  weaker pound  is supporting demand for British goods
abroad. The strength of manufacturing has exacerbated a divide
among Bank of England policy makers on the outlook for economic
recovery. They decided last month to leave their  bond-purchase
plan  at 200 billion pounds ($312 billion).  The report “points to ongoing recovery and renewed
confidence,”  David Noble , chief executive officer at CIPS, said
in the statement. “Whilst this is good news for manufacturers
at the end of what has been a rollercoaster year, the next few
months will be far from an easy ride.”  New export orders rose the fastest in seven months, and
employment increased the quickest since the survey began in
1992, the report said.  Bath, England-based  Rotork Plc , a maker of industrial valve
controls, said Nov. 19 orders were 28 percent higher in the
third quarter. The company expects continued weakness in the
European water and power markets, while activity will likely
increase in Asia.  Official Data  The Office for National Statistics said last month
manufacturing production expanded for a fifth month in September
to reach the strongest level in almost two years. The pound has
dropped about a fifth on a trade-weighted basis since the start
of 2007.  Still, the biggest fiscal squeeze since World War II may
weigh on the  economy . The Treasury’s fiscal watchdog said this
week the U.K. faces a “sluggish” recovery and cut its 2011
growth forecast to 2.1 percent from 2.3 percent.  The Bank of England left the  key interest rate  at a record
low of 0.5 percent last month. One member,  Andrew Sentance , has
been calling for higher interest rates since June to stem
inflation, while  Adam Posen  maintained a push for a second month
to boost bond purchases to stoke growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  