-- U.S. Farm Economy Booming With Rising Incomes, Record Exports
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2010-12-01T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/u-s-farm-economy-booming-with-rising-incomes-record-exports.html
U.S. agriculture is booming even as
the broader economy struggles to recover from recession, with
exports heading to a record and farmer profits near an all-time
high.  Shipments of farm goods may reach $126.5 billion in the
year that ends Sept. 30 as the U.S. makes up for drought-related
wheat losses in Russia and sales to China jump 16 percent, the
Department of Agriculture said yesterday in  a report .  Net-farm
income  will rise 31 percent to $81.6 billion this calendar year
as crop prices climb and livestock sales increase, according to
a separate USDA forecast.  “Farmers have weathered the Great Recession with rising
incomes and exports,” said  Robert Stallman , the president of
the  American Farm Bureau Federation , the largest U.S. farmer
group. “We hope it continues.”  Exports and rising domestic demand are fueling the
prosperity, Stallman said. Wheat, corn and soybean prices in
Chicago are up at least 19 percent this year on tightened
supplies and higher global consumption. Cattle and hog futures
have gained at least 16 percent as the reviving global economy
boosts sales.  Grain- and oilseed-crop values will reach $174.2 billion in
2010, up 3.1 percent from last year, the USDA said in its farm-
income report. The value of livestock production will jump
almost 17 percent to $139 billion as exports to Asian markets
rise, the department said.  China Sales Increase  China’s projected $17.5 billion in purchases of U.S. farm
goods in the year that started last month will be second only to
Canada’s $18 billion, according to the export report. The USDA
said last week that China will buy 5.5 million metric tons of
soybeans by Aug. 31. Two days later, the department reported a
sale of 780,000 tons to the Asian nation.  The trade forecast “demonstrates that the demand for U.S.
food and agriculture around the world is stronger than ever,”
Agriculture Secretary  Tom Vilsack  said in a statement. “Sales
are surging in China, Southeast Asia, North America and the
Middle East.”  China’s expanding appetite for U.S. soybeans holds risk as
well as opportunity, said Joe Steiner, a farmer from Mason,
Ohio, and a member of the executive committee of the American
Soybean Association, based in St. Louis.  ‘Thrilled but Scared’  “We’re thrilled, but we’re scared to death,” he said in
an interview yesterday in Washington. “When you have all your
eggs in that basket,” an economic dispute could blow up into a
trade war and the market could vanish, he said.  Farm profits that trail only 2008 and the record of $87.3
billion in 2004 should increase demand for products such as
Deere & Co. tractors, Potash Corp. fertilizers and Monsanto Co.
seeds, said  Daryll Ray , the director of the  Agricultural Policy
Analysis Center  at the University of Tennessee in Knoxville.  “There’s going to be a lot of money out in the
countryside,” he said.  Wheat exports will total $9.8 billion, 67 percent higher
than 2010, the USDA said. Drought in Russia pushed futures
prices in Chicago to a 23-month high on Aug. 6 and spurred
demand for U.S. grain in Egypt and other nations that normally
don’t rely on American supplies.  “If we didn’t have world markets, we wouldn’t have a
job,” said Dan Hughes, who grows wheat and other crops on
11,000 acres (4,450 hectares) near Venango, Nebraska. Exports
are a main driver of economic growth in his part of the country,
where land values are as much as 12 percent higher than a year
ago, he said.  Meat and dairy shipments from  Tyson Foods Inc . and other
processors will rise 6.8 percent to $23 billion, from $21.5
billion last year, the USDA said.  Cyclical Prosperity  Good times in farm country should allow farmers affected by
a 28 percent plunge in profits in 2009 to begin putting money
away again, said  Roger Johnson , the president of the  National
Farmers Union . Agricultural prosperity tends to be cyclical,
with high product prices motivating companies to raise costs for
farm inputs and overproduction sending prices back down.  Prices for fertilizer and some other inputs have started to
rise again, said Dan Hughes, who raises wheat, corn, millet and
dry beans outside Venango, Nebraska.  “Anhydrous-ammonia costs are already starting to catch
up” with higher profits, he said. In spite of that, the farm
economy is “a much brighter picture” than even in August, when
the USDA made its previous forecast, he said.  “It looks like our cost of production will be higher, but
it looks like the market will give us a reasonable profit for
the coming year,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Bjerga  in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 