-- U.S. Drops Drilling Off Atlantic Coast, Eastern Gulf
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .   a n d   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2010-12-01T20:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/u-s-won-t-consider-drilling-off-atlantic-or-in-eastern-gulf.html
The Obama administration has reversed
a decision to allow oil and natural-gas drilling in the eastern
Gulf of Mexico and off part of the Atlantic coast following the
 BP Plc  spill, Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  said.  The biggest U.S. offshore oil spill showed that “the most
appropriate course of action is to focus on areas with existing
leases and not expand to new areas,” Salazar said today on a
conference call with reporters.  President Barack Obama said in March he would consider
drilling off the Atlantic coast from south of Delaware and in
the eastern Gulf of Mexico 125 miles (201 kilometers) off the
west coast of Florida. Less than a month after the announcement,
BP’s Macondo well blew out, killing 11 workers on a drilling rig
and setting off the spill.  Today’s decision puts off drilling in the Atlantic and in
the eastern Gulf at least through 2017.  “After Macondo, I don’t think anybody believed that there
was a real chance to have rigs off the coast of Florida, let
alone the Atlantic,” David Pursell, a managing director at
Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. LLC in Houston, said today in a
telephone interview.  Business and industry groups such as the American Petroleum
Institute said the administration’s decision will cost jobs and
block economic growth.  ‘Shuts the Door’  “This decision shuts the door on new development off our
nation’s coasts and effectively ensures that new American jobs
will not be realized,”  Jack Gerard , president of the
Washington-based institute, said in a statement.  While abandoning plans for expanded drilling, the
administration will move ahead with lease sales in the central
and western Gulf of Mexico that had been scheduled for this
year, Salazar said.  “We will do everything we can to proceed with the lease
sale by the end of 2011 and into 2012,” Salazar said.  In October,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc , Europe’s biggest oil
company, said it applied to drill an exploratory well next year
off Alaska’s coast in the Beaufort Sea. The Bureau of Ocean
Energy Management, the Interior unit that oversees offshore
drilling, is “processing their permit in the normal course,”
said  Michael Bromwich , bureau director.  The region remains a “frontier” area that requires
further study to ensure drilling can proceed safely, Salazar
said today. “We will proceed with utmost caution,” he said.  Shell’s Record  Shell has a “proven track record of responsible and
environmentally sensitive operations” and its “ability to
obtain offshore permits in a timely and efficient manner is an
important component to this country’s energy future, jobs, and
the economy,” Kelly op de Weegh, a spokeswoman for The Hague-
based company, said in an e-mail.  Obama’s proposal before the BP spill had included drilling
50 miles off the Virginia coast, in what would be the first
offshore Atlantic oil and gas sale in more than two decades.
Former President  George W. Bush  removed a presidential
moratorium on offshore drilling in 2008, and Congress let a ban
expire.  The decision today protects fishing grounds and tourist
destinations “where there is now no threat, and where there is
now no dependency on the petroleum industry,” Jacqueline
Savitz, senior campaign director for the Washington-based
environmental group Oceana, said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net ;
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  