-- U.S. Treasury Envoy to Visit Spain as Bonds, Portugal Show Contagion Risk
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-12-01T02:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/u-s-treasury-envoy-to-visit-spain-as-bonds-portugal-show-contagion-risk.html
The U.S. Treasury Department said its
top international official will visit Madrid, as Spanish and
Italian bond spreads rose to euro-era records and Standard &
Poor’s said it may cut Portugal’s debt ratings.  Lael Brainard , the undersecretary for international
affairs, will meet this week with senior government officials in
Madrid, Berlin and Paris to “discuss economic developments in
Europe as well as our longer-term work to advance our shared
agenda on strong and sustainable global growth,” the Treasury
said in a statement yesterday.  Her visit comes amid renewed concern that Europe’s crisis
could spread beyond Greece and Ireland, two countries that
already have accepted bailout packages. Italian and Spanish
government bonds fell yesterday, driving up the extra yield
investors demand to hold the securities instead of German bunds.  “The bailout of Ireland made it obvious that the European
Union had no interest in a shock-and-awe approach to this, and
so will plod through the crisis dealing with one country at a
time,” said  Douglas Borthwick , head of foreign-exchange trading
at Stamford, Connecticut-based Faros Trading LLC. “The market
will continue to go after each individual country until the
European Union steps forward with a credible way of dealing with
the credit issues and questions held by the market.”  The U.S. has urged the European Union to focus on
containing the crisis and to postpone talk of policy changes
that could affect short-term investor confidence, such as
bondholder losses that may be required for taxpayer bailouts
after 2013 and other medium-term restructuring conditions.  European Fund  The EU and the International Monetary Fund established a
750 billion-euro ($974 billion) fund in May after Greece’s near-
default threatened the survival of the euro. The fund hasn’t
dissuaded some investors from shifting out of euro-region debt
to seek refuge in gilts on the prospect that further bailouts
may cause a splintering of the euro area.  French and German bonds declined relative to U.S. and U.K.
counterparts this week. The debt underperformed even after the
Irish rescue and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  toned down calls for bondholders to
take losses in future restructurings.  “Until the market gets its blood, they don’t quiet down,”
said  Ron d’Vari , chief executive officer of NewOak Capital LLC,
an advisory and investment firm in New York.  Spain and Portugal will likely follow Ireland in tapping
the EU’s fund, and the region’s inability to fund future
bailouts will probably force some of the 16 euro nations to
abandon the currency within five years,  Mohamed El-Erian , the
chief executive officer at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
said in an interview on CNBC yesterday.  Calming Markets  The IMF is monitoring developments in Europe and urging
officials to focus on calming markets, an IMF official said
yesterday.  Brainard and other U.S. officials have been in contact with
European counterparts, including a series of weekend phone
calls, as Ireland negotiated its 85 billion-euro rescue package.
Last month, Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  took part in
talks at a Group of 20 summit in Seoul that led European
officials to release a statement pledging no short-term
bondholder losses in an effort to calm markets.  Bank executives also have sought to defuse investor
concern. Investors’ mistrust of Spain is unjustified and
problems in the banking industry are “manageable,”  Deutsche
Bank AG  Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  said yesterday.  ‘Apparent Mistrust’  The fundamental economic data “in no way justifies the
apparent mistrust that exists in the case of Spain, though not
only there,” Ackermann, who also heads the Institute of
International Finance, a global industry group with more than
400 members, said in response to a request by Bloomberg News.
“Spain can deal with its problems by itself.”  Deutsche Bank had a net exposure of about 1 billion euros
to Spanish central and local government debt as of March 31, the
company said in a July 27 presentation. German banks’ claims on
Spain totaled about $182 billion at the end of June, according
to figures from the Bank for International Settlements in Basel,
Switzerland.  In Spain, “the problems in the banking sector are
manageable,” Ackermann said yesterday.  Spain remains the focus, especially now that Portugal
appears headed for a bailout,  Marc Chandler , global head of
currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York,
said in a telephone interview yesterday.  “Portugal is only the tip of the iceberg,” he said. “The
big fish is whether they downgrade Spain.”  Fiscal Drag  S&P said yesterday that it may cut Portugal’s credit
ratings on concern that the government has made little progress
on boosting economic growth to offset the fiscal drag from
scheduled 2011 budget cuts. It placed Portugal’s A-long-term and
A-2 short-term foreign and local currency sovereign credit
ratings on “CreditWatch” with “negative implications.”  The lowered growth projection reflects Portugal’s inability
to reduce its current-account deficit, the New York-based
ratings firm said.  “Policies the government has pursued have done little to
boost labor flexibility and productivity,” S&P said. “As a
consequence of the Portuguese economy’s structural rigidities
and the volatile external conditions, we project that the
economy will contract by at least 2 percent in 2011 in real
terms.”  Credit-default swaps protecting from losses on the
country’s debt jumped 4.5 basis points to 542.9, according to
data provider CMA. The contracts have soared 211.9 basis points
since Oct. 26  Investment Grade  S&P said it expects Portugal’s debt will remain investment
grade. “CreditWatch” means S&P could lower the country’s
credit ratings from A- and A-2 within the next three months, the
report said.  S&P said a further downgrade could have “a negative impact
on the creditworthiness of the five Portuguese banks and two
related subsidiaries,” that it rates.  Portugal was lowered to A- from A+ in April by S&P. Moody’s
Investors Service, which has an A1 rating for Portugal, said on
Oct. 18 that the government was responding “adequately” to
market pressures to lower the deficit, though the country’s
long-term economic prospects are a cause for concern.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  