-- Options Trading in U.S. Increased 33% in November, Biggest Jump This Year
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2010-12-01T15:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/u-s-options-volume-rose-33-in-november-biggest-increase-since-december.html
U.S. options trading rose 33 percent
in November from a year earlier, the biggest gain since
December, as investors turning to the market amid wider stock
swings drove volume toward an eighth straight annual record.  “Funds are increasingly using options as investment
committees have become better informed and more comfortable with
using the strategies,”  Andy Nybo , head of derivatives at
research firm Tabb Group LLC in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “They’re more educated with using derivatives for
risk management purposes and that’s where the future growth in
the options market will originate.”  Volume on the nine exchanges jumped to 352 million
contracts in November, up from 265 million a year earlier,
according to the Chicago-based  Options Clearing Corp. , which
settles all trading of exchange-listed contracts. This year’s
volume through November was 3.56 billion, nearing last year’s
3.62 billion total, OCC data show. Nybo estimates that 2010
volume will rise to 3.8 billion.  Mutual funds, hedge funds and other institutional investors
are increasingly relying on options to protect stocks and bet on
market swings. The benchmark index for U.S. stock  options  prices
rose 11 percent last month to 23.54 as of yesterday, the highest
close in two months. The  VIX , as the  Chicago Board Options
Exchange Volatility Index  is known, measures the cost of using
options as insurance against declines in the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index .  Two-Month High  Options give the right, without the obligation, to buy or
sell a security at a certain price by a given date.  The benchmark index for U.S. stock  options  prices rose 11
percent last month to 23.54, the highest level in two months.
The  VIX , as the  Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index 
is known, measures the cost of using options as insurance
against declines in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index .  The Chicago Board Options Exchange, owned by  CBOE Holdings
Inc. , was the largest venue last month with 26.3 percent of
volume. Nasdaq OMX PHLX was the second-largest and the biggest
venue for options on stocks and exchange-traded funds, followed
by CBOE. Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., based in New York, also runs
another, smaller options exchange.  ISE, NYSE  The International Securities Exchange is the third-largest
in both categories, while NYSE Euronext’s two options markets
combined made it the second-largest exchange operator in equity
derivatives excluding indexes. NYSE Euronext runs NYSE Amex and
NYSE Arca, which use different trading rules to attract clients
to those venues.  C2 Options Exchange, which began trading in October and is
run by CBOE, had 0.33 percent of overall volume. C2, which is a
fully electronic market, is the ninth options exchange. CBOE
plans to trade options on the S&P 500, which are listed
exclusively on its bigger market, on C2 starting next year.  “Exchanges tend to beat each other up, they tend to
compete on fees and usually customers benefit,”  Jonathan Werts ,
a managing director at Bank of America Corp. in New York, said
at a conference in Chicago last month. “Do we need nine
exchanges? No. Is it unhealthy? No.” Venues that don’t provide
benefits to investors won’t be used, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 