-- House Sets Vote Tomorrow on Tax-Cut Extensions as Negotiators Begin Talks
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2010-12-01T19:42:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/u-s-lawmakers-urge-delay-on-tax-cut-vote-pending-bipartisan-negotiations.html
The U.S. House set a vote for
tomorrow on Democrats’ plan to extend middle-class tax cuts as
congressional and Obama administration negotiators started talks
aimed at forging a bipartisan compromise.  Negotiators discussed “everything on the table,” Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  told reporters after they met for
almost two hours in Washington today. The discussions were
“civil” and “constructive,” he said. Senator  Max Baucus , a
Montana Democrat, also called the talks constructive. They
resume today at 5:30 p.m. Washington time.  Democrats announced their plan for a House vote tomorrow,
forcing Republicans to vote on tax cuts for the middle class
only, as Republicans who want the cuts extended for everyone
ratcheted up political pressure. Senate Republicans told
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  they will refuse to move forward with
any legislation until the Senate votes to extend the tax cuts
and fund the government’s continued operation.  “It is a shame that what we have agreement on is being
held hostage by that on which we do not have agreement,” said
House Majority Leader  Steny Hoyer , a Maryland Democrat. “The
American public wants us to find places for agreement” and
“nobody wants working Americans to get any kind of an increase
on Jan. 1.”  Republican Criticism  Obama and many Democrats want to retain the lower rates for
individual annual income of up to $200,000 and married couples
earning as much as $250,000 a year. Under the president’s
proposal, the lower rates would expire for income above those
figures. Republicans support extending the tax cuts permanently
for all income levels.  Hoyer’s announcement drew immediate criticism from House
Republicans, who charged it was contrary to the spirit of
bipartisan cooperation that President  Barack Obama  tried to
foster yesterday during a meeting with congressional leaders.  Representative  John Boehner  of Ohio, who will become
speaker when the new Congress convenes in January, called the
planned vote a “Washington stalling tactic with job-killing
implications.”  “This is nothing more than political chicanery and
undermines the president’s ongoing discussions and efforts on
tax rates,” House Republican Whip  Eric Cantor  said in a
statement. The Virginia lawmaker called the measure “a non-
starter.”  Yesterday, Baucus and Representative  David Camp , a Michigan
Republican, urged lawmakers to delay a vote, saying it would be
premature.  ‘Common Ground’  Hoyer defended the House planned vote, saying Republicans
and Democrats “have common ground” on middle-class tax cuts.
“I don’t know of anybody in the House of Representatives” who
“believes we ought to increase taxes on those folks,” he said.
Nor would a House vote on taxes “undermine negotiations on a
compromise,” he said.  The House legislation also would include provisions to
ensure that couples do not pay a penalty for being married as
well as a tax credit for child care, Hoyer said.  Camp, who will be chairman of the tax-writing House Ways
and Means Committee in the next Congress, said today that he
would oppose the House measure because he objects “in
principle” to separating the issues of extending tax cuts for
middle-class from the wealthiest Americans.  ‘Run the Clock’  Senator  Richard Durbin , an Illinois Democrat, said
Republicans are “trying to run the clock out” on a strategic
arms reduction treaty with Russia by vowing to block anything
that isn’t related to tax-cut extensions. Republicans will have
six more seats in the Senate in January.  Obama has said he wants the treaty ratified before Congress
adjourns.  “They’re trying to make sure we can’t get started on the
START treaty,” Durbin told reporters. Asked if it “poisons the
well” on tax-cut negotiations, he replied, “it’s not
helpful.”  Obama appointed Geithner and Budget Director  Jack Lew  to
broker a deal with lawmakers that seeks to avoid expiration of
all of the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts on Dec. 31.  Along with Baucus, chairman of the Senate Finance
Committee, and Camp, negotiators include  Jon Kyl  of Arizona, the
Senate’s No. 2 Republican, and  Chris Van Hollen  of Maryland, a
member of the House Democratic leadership.  Tax Breaks  In addition to the income tax cuts expiring this year,
lawmakers face pressure to revive tax breaks that expired at the
end of 2009. That includes a “patch” to prevent the expansion
of the alternative minimum tax and tax breaks for state and
local sales tax and college tuition.  IRS Commissioner  Douglas Shulman  warned in a letter to
lawmakers today that failure to act on those measures could pose
operational challenges for the IRS and taxpayers in the tax-
filing season.  Democratic leaders faced some pressure to hold the vote as
a means of testing Republican mettle to oppose legislation that
would retain lower rates for middle-income taxpayers.  “I’m not talking about compromise,” said Senator  Jeff Merkley , an Oregon Democrat. “We should go to the floor and
have the vote on $250,000.”  Hoyer said the House’s planned vote tomorrow isn’t
“intended to embarrass or put Republicans in a difficult
place.”  In the House, Massachusetts Democrat  Richard Neal  said he
also was eager for a vote. Neal is challenging Michigan
Representative  Sander Levin  for the top Democratic spot on the
Ways and Means Committee.  “We’re near the big moment,” Neal said. “Both sides want
to get a vote up on the board.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  