-- U.S. Dollar Bonds Draw Potash Amid Record Sales: Canada Credit
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2010-12-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/u-s-dollar-bonds-draw-potash-amid-record-sales-canada-credit.html
Canadian borrowers from  Potash Corp.
of Saskatchewan  Inc. to Talisman Energy Inc. are selling U.S.
dollar debt at a record pace as the difference in yields between
the two nations evaporates.  Investors have bought $40 billion of investment-grade debt
issued by Canadian companies this year, almost double from the
corresponding period in 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The bonds account for 5 percent of sales in the U.S.,
up from 2 percent last year, the data show.  While companies in Canada are drawing on U.S. investor
demand for debt in an economy that benefits from rising prices
for natural resources, borrowers enjoy bond yields that have
converged for the first time in six years. U.S. yields have
averaged about 61 basis points more than Canadian rates since
2000, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  “The U.S. dollar market has been and continues to be the
world’s deepest capital market, including debt capital
markets,”  Bruce Rothney , president and country head for
Barclays Capital Canada in Toronto, said in an interview.
“People want to have exposure to the corporate and government
credits in Canada.”  Canadian borrowers are also gaining the advantage of
issuing in U.S. dollars after the Canadian currency surged to
parity this year against the greenback.  Potash Corp., the world’s largest fertilizer company, sold
$1 billion of U.S. dollar denominated debt Nov. 22 to help pay
for a planned stock buyback, Bloomberg data show. The bond
offering was Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based Potash Corp.’s first
in 14 months.  Extra Yield  The $500 million, seven-year portion was sold with a coupon
of 3.25 percent, or 122 basis points more than Treasuries. The
$500 million of 30-year bonds were issued at a coupon of 5.625
percent, a spread of 152 basis points, or 1.52 percentage
points.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to hold the debt of Canada’s corporations rather than its
federal government narrowed yesterday to 142 basis points, from
143 basis points at the end of October, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data. Spreads reached 134 basis points
Nov. 15, the narrowest since May 10.  The securities lost 0.85 percent in November as a drop in
bond prices drove yields to 3.91 percent on average, from 3.64
percent on Oct. 31. The loss trimmed this year’s gain to 6.95
percent, including reinvested interest.  Provincial Bonds  In the provincial bond market, relative yields were
unchanged for the month at 53 basis points. Yields rose to 3.18
percent, from 2.96 percent the month before. The securities lost
1.21 percent in November, the biggest loss since December 2009
and cutting the gain in 2010 to 7.09 percent.  Government bonds had their worst month of the year, as the
yield on 10-year securities rose 25 basis points to 3.06
percent. Canada’s sovereign debt lost 1.04 percent in November,
compared with a drop of about 0.85 percent for Treasuries
through Nov. 29.  Canada is scheduled today to sell C$700 million ($683
million) of 1.5 percent inflation-linked bonds due in 2044. The
previous auction of real-return bonds, on Aug. 25, drew a median
yield of 1.29 percent and a bid-to-coverage ratio of 2.25 times.  Canada’s economy slowed more than forecast in the third
quarter as a strong currency restrained  exports  and boosted
imports.  Gross domestic product  expanded at a 1 percent annual
pace in the third quarter, Statistics Canada said yesterday in
Ottawa, following an increase of 2.3 percent in the prior three
months. Economists predicted a 1.5 percent gain, according to
the median of 26  estimates  gathered by Bloomberg News.  Curbing Exports  The Canadian dollar has strengthened 27 percent against the
U.S. dollar since March 2009, curbing exports by companies such
as forest-products firm  Tembec Inc.  and encouraging companies to
import equipment to boost productivity. Bank of Canada Governor
 Mark Carney  left interest rates unchanged in October after three
previous increases, citing the “more gradual” recovery.  “The Canadian economy can’t put distance between itself
and the U.S., and that’s because of trade,” said  Doug Porter ,
deputy chief economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto.
“There is no urgency for the Bank of Canada to start tightening
again.”  For the first time since 2004 there is no difference
between U.S. and Canadian corporate bond yields, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch show. U.S. yields were about 2.5 percentage points
more than Canadian yields as recently as March 2009, the data
show.  ‘Resource Exposure’  “There’s an appetite for resource exposure on the part of
U.S. investors, and the perception of Canadian debt abroad has
done well and didn’t suffer as much due to erosion in the
financial sector,” said  Mark Chandler , head of Canadian fixed
income and currency strategy at Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto.  While Canadian companies are selling the most dollar-
denominated bonds ever, issuance slowed this month amid concern
that Ireland’s debt crisis will spread across Europe, slowing
the global economy and causing investors to pare back on riskier
assets. Sales fell to $2.88 billion this month from $5.02
billion in October, Bloomberg data show.  Talisman , based in Calgary, bucked the trend. The company
sold $600 million of 3.75 percent notes due in February 2021
after increasing the size of the offering from $500 million,
Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Boris Korby  in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  