-- U.S. Mortgage Applications Fall by Most This Year on Higher Lending Rates
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-12-01T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/u-s-mortgage-applications-fall-by-most-this-year-on-higher-lending-rates.html
The number of  mortgage applications 
in the U.S. fell last week by the most this year as higher
lending rates led to a slump in refinancing.  The Mortgage Bankers Association’s index declined 16.5
percent in the week ended Nov. 26, figures from the Washington-
based group showed today. The gauge of  refinancing  fell 21.6
percent, the biggest drop of the year. The measure of purchases
climbed 1.1 percent.  The average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage rose to the
highest level since August, an increase that follows data
showing the economy gaining strength at the end of the year.
With mounting foreclosures adding to inventory and  unemployment 
near 10 percent, a sustained improvement in home sales and
construction will take time to develop.  “Mortgage rates are higher than they were a few weeks ago
so refinancing and new purchase mortgage volumes are going to be
slow, probably until we get into the new year,”  Chris Rupkey ,
chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.
in New York, said before the report.  The share of applicants seeking to refinance a loan fell to
74.9 percent last week from 78.6 percent the prior week, today’s
figures showed.  The average rate on a 30-year  fixed mortgage  increased to
4.56 percent from 4.50 percent the prior week. Borrowing costs
have been rising since reaching 4.21 percent during the week
ended Oct. 8, the lowest in records going back to 1990.  At the current 30-year rate, monthly payments for each
$100,000 of a loan would be about $510.26, or $14 less than a
year ago when the rate was 4.79 percent.  One-Year Rate  The average rate on a 15-year fixed mortgage rose to 3.91
percent from 3.83 percent, and the rate on a one-year adjustable
mortgage declined to 6.81 percent from 7.09 percent.  Housing demand has resumed its decline after a tax credit
worth as much as $8,000 expired.  Sales  of existing homes, which
now make up more than 90 percent of the market, fell more than
forecast in October as foreclosure moratoriums and a lack of
credit disrupted real estate, figures from the National
Association of Realtors showed last week. In July, sales ran at
the weakest pace in a decade’s worth of record-keeping by the
group.  Homebuilders remain gloomy. Atlanta-based  Beazer Homes USA 
Inc., which builds and sells entry-level homes in the South,
remains “cautious” in its outlook.  “Sustained high unemployment levels and the overhang of
foreclosures make it very difficult to predict when and to what
extent the housing market will recover,”  Ian J. McCarthy , chief
executive officer at Beazer said on a conference call Nov. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  