-- U.S. Online Sales on Cyber Monday Climbed 16%, ComScore Says
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 2010-12-01T13:52:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/u-s-cyber-monday-sales-rose-16-surpassing-1-billion-comscore-says.html
U.S. online sales rose 16 percent on
Cyber Monday, topping $1 billion for the first time, spurred by
free shipping deals and discounted prices, ComScore Inc. said.  Sales reached $1.03 billion,  Gian Fulgoni , chairman of
Reston, Virginia-based ComScore, said today in an interview on
Bloomberg Television. Cyber Monday -- the day U.S. consumers
return to work after Thanksgiving weekend and shop online from
the office -- gives an early indication of holiday spending.  Researchers have raised estimates for year-end shopping as
consumers shake off the effects of the recession. ComScore had
boosted its prediction last week for online sales in November
and December, saying they’d grow 11 percent to $32.4 billion, up
from a previous forecast of as much as 9 percent growth.  “Retailers have been very, very aggressive this year,”
Fulgoni said.  Early results from other companies indicated the season had
gotten off to a strong start. International Business Machines
Corp.-owned Coremetrics, which culls sales results from 500 U.S.
retailers, said Cyber Monday sales rose 19 percent.  EBay Inc.’s PayPal, which says it handles about 17 percent
of U.S. e-commerce transactions, observed the same growth rate.  Online retailers, led by  Amazon.com Inc. , will account for
7 percent of total retail sales in the U.S. this year, up from 6
percent last year, according to Forrester Research Inc. Seattle-
based  Amazon  posted hundreds of Cyber Monday deals on its site,
including one for a 47-inch (119-centimeter) television from
Vizio Inc. for $599. The set regularly sells for $998.  The  National Retail Federation  coined the term Cyber Monday
in 2005 to generate buzz around the first working day after
Black Friday, the day after Thanksgiving and the traditional
start to holiday shopping.  Holiday sales over the Internet on Nov. 26, this year’s
Black Friday, reached $648 million, a 9 percent increase from
the corresponding day a year earlier, ComScore said earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  