-- U.S. Stocks Rally on Economic Data, Prospects for Larger European Bailout
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2010-12-01T21:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/u-s-stock-index-futures-rise-google-motorola-american-express-advance.html
U.S. stocks rallied, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to the biggest advance in three
months, amid improving global economic data and on investor
speculation of a larger European financial rescue.  Schlumberger Ltd. and  Dow Chemical Co.  climbed more than
3.9 percent as commodity prices gained.  United Technologies
Corp.  and General Electric Co. rose at least 3 percent as
Deutsche Bank AG said they may benefit from Airbus SAS’s plan to
develop A320 aircrafts with new engines.  Motorola Inc.  jumped
4.5 percent after detailing plans to split into two companies in
January.  Microsoft Corp.  increased 3.1 percent after forecasting
2011 may be “biggest year ever” for its Xbox division.  The  S&P 500  added 2.2 percent to 1,206.07 at 4 p.m. in New
York. Today’s gain followed rallies of 3 percent on Sept. 1 and
2.2 percent on Aug. 2, meaning the three biggest advances since
July occurred on the first trading day of a month,  Bloomberg
data  show. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 249.76 points,
or 2.3 percent, to 11,255.78.  “The recovery is unfolding,” said  John Praveen , the Newark,
New Jersey-based chief investment strategist at Prudential
International Investments Advisers LLC, which oversees $690
billion. “The quality of the economic data has been improving.
There’s a strong bid for commodities as China is growing at a
strong pace. There’s some easing of concerns about Europe. Those
are all catalysts for a stock rally.”  December Rallies  The  Dow average  has rallied in December more than in any
other month over the last century, according to data compiled by
Bespoke Investment Group. On average, the 30-stock gauge has
risen 1.3 percent in the month during the past 100 years, while
gaining 1.5 percent and 1.7 percent over the last 50 and 20
years, respectively, the data show.  U.S. stocks followed Asian and European stocks higher
earlier after China’s logistics federation reported that
 manufacturing  grew at a faster pace for a fourth straight month
in November. Europe’s  manufacturing industries  expanded at the
fastest pace in four months in November, Markit Economics said.  Equities extended gains after an ADP Employer Services
report showed that employment increased by 93,000, the most
since November 2007, after a revised 82,000 rise in October that
was almost double the initial estimate. The median projection of
economists in a Bloomberg survey called for a 70,000 gain last
month. The data bolstered optimism in the job market two days
before the government’s employment report.  ‘Relief Rally’  “It’s a relief rally,” said  Burt White , who helps oversee
$284 billion as chief investment officer at LPL Financial Corp.
in Boston. “The ADP number bodes well for the jobs report we’re
getting on Friday. There’s strength out of China, more clarity
coming out of Europe. We see a reacceleration from the soft spot
we were at earlier this year.”  Another report showed that U.S. manufacturing expanded for
a 16th consecutive month in November. The Institute for Supply
Management’s  factory index  was little changed at 56.6 from 56.9
in October. The figure compared with a median economist estimate
of 56.5 in a Bloomberg News survey.  The Fed’s report on regional activity, known as the Beige
Book, said the economy gained strength across much of the U.S.
as hiring improved, manufacturing expanded and retailers
anticipated a stronger holiday shopping season. The anecdotal
information will help policy makers frame the discussion of the
economy when they next meet on Dec. 14.  Cyclical Stocks  The  Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index  of economically sensitive
stocks rose 3.1 percent, the most in three months, as all 30 of
its companies rallied. Caterpillar Inc., the world’s largest
maker of construction and mining equipment, gained 3.4 percent
to $87.45.  FedEx Corp. , the second-largest U.S. package-shipping
company, jumped 3.2 percent to $93.99.  Indexes of energy and raw-materials producers in the S&P
500 rallied at least 2.7 percent as the U.S. dollar fell,
sending commodities prices higher. The  Thomson Reuters/CRB
Commodity Index  of 19 raw materials advanced 2.5 percent as the
Dollar Index, which gauges the currency against six major
counterparts, slumped 0.6 percent to snap a three-day rally.  Schlumberger, the largest oilfield services provider, added
4.5 percent to $80.85.  Dow Chemical , the world’s second-biggest
chemical company, climbed 4 percent to $32.42.  Deere & Co.  gained 1.9 percent to $76.14. The world’s
largest farm-equipment maker increased its dividend by 5 cents,
or 17 percent, to 35 cents a share. That beat the 30-cent
dividend projection from Bloomberg.  Europe Aid  Stocks extended gains today as Reuters, citing an unnamed
official, reported that the U.S. would be ready to support an
extension of the European Financial Stability Facility, the fund
used to bail out Greece and Ireland, by having the International
Monetary Fund contribute more money. An official in Washington
later told Bloomberg News that the U.S. isn’t discussing an
extra commitment of money from the IMF.  The  S&P 500  dropped 0.6 percent yesterday to extend its
retreat from a two-year high on Nov. 5 to 3.7 percent, as
concern mounted that Europe’s government debt crisis will worsen
and as Google Inc. faced a European antitrust probe. The index
is still up 18 percent from this year’s low in July as companies
reported higher-than-estimated earnings and the Federal Reserve
increased its program of asset purchases to stimulate growth.  United Technologies  rose 4 percent to $78.26. Airbus’s
plans to develop new versions of the A320 series of aircraft
with more fuel-efficient engines is “positive” for the maker
of Pratt & Whitney jet engines and  General Electric , Deutsche
Bank said in a note. GE added 3 percent to $16.30.  Split  Motorola rose 4.5 percent to $8.01. The U.S. maker of
mobile phones and two-way radios that plans to  split  in two said
it will complete the move on Jan. 4, issuing new shares in the
two companies to current stockholders.  Microsoft , the world’s largest software maker, rallied 3.1
percent to $26.04.  Dennis Durkin , Xbox’s chief operating
officer, forecast a 5-to10-year growth spurt in games and said
2011 could be the “biggest year ever.” He made his comments
during a Credit Suisse Group AG conference today.  A  measure of 12 homebuilders  in S&P indexes rallied 4
percent as all of its companies gained. Construction spending in
the U.S. unexpectedly rose in October. The 0.7 percent  increase 
matched the previous month’s gain and brought spending to $802.3
billion, Commerce Department figures showed. The  median  estimate
of economists in a Bloomberg survey was a 0.3 percent drop.  Pulte Group Inc., the largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue,
rose 4.5 percent to $6.54.  D.R. Horton Inc. , the second-largest
builder, advanced 4.9 percent to $10.53.  Goldman Boosts Forecasts  Economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the most profitable
Wall Street firm, increased their forecasts for U.S. and global
growth in 2011, predicted an acceleration in 2012 and
recommended investors buy banks. The U.S. economy will grow at a
2.7 percent rate next year, up from a previous forecast of 2
percent, and 3.6 percent in 2012. The global economy will grow
4.6 percent in 2011 and 4.8 percent in 2012.  They recommended U.S. bank stocks, junk bonds, commodities,
Japanese stocks and China’s currency. They are the first of the
firm’s “top trades” for 2011, they said. The forecasts are a
departure from the pessimism that characterized Goldman Sachs’
projections since 2006.  “You really have had very strong economic data coming from
the U.S. since mid-November,” said  David Kovacs , chief
investment officer for quantitative strategies at Turner
Investment Partners Inc. in Berwyn, Pennsylvania, which manages
$18 billion. “The market is still quite reasonably priced, so
the general trend should be going higher.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Tara Lachapelle  in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 