-- Mubarak's National Democratic Party Sweeps Parliamentary Election in Egypt
-- B y   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a   a n d   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 2010-12-01T10:22:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/mubarak-s-ruling-party-sweeps-parliamentary-election-in-egypt.html
Egypt’s ruling  National Democratic
Party  swept the first round of parliamentary elections while its
main Islamist rival failed to win a single seat, the national
elections commission said.  The party of President  Hosni Mubarak  won 209 of the 221
seats contested in the voting on Nov. 28, official results on
the website of the electoral commission showed. Runoffs for the
remainder of the seats in the 508-member assembly will be held
Dec. 5. The  Muslim Brotherhood , Egypt’s biggest opposition
group, said its candidates didn’t win any seats outright.  “Egyptian law and its constitution were killed in these
elections,” Manal Abul Hassan, a Brotherhood candidate, said in
a statement today. The group lost 62 of the 88 seats it held in
the outgoing parliament and was considering whether to withdraw
from the runoffs, according to the statement posted on the
Brotherhood’s website.  The Islamist group has accused the NDP of rigging the vote,
a charge the ruling party denies. The Obama administration was
“disappointed” by “the numerous reported irregularities at
the polls,” National Security Council spokesman  Mike Hammer 
said yesterday. The results tighten the ruling party’s grip on
power in Egypt, a U.S. ally, as it prepares for next year’s
presidential vote, which may see the first change in leadership
in three decades.  Egypt’s government invalidated results from 1,053 ballot
boxes due to charges of vote-rigging, Sameh El Kashef, spokesman
for the commission, said at a press conference in Cairo late
yesterday.  Succession Questions  Mubarak , in power since 1981, hasn’t announced whether he
will run for another six-year term. Opposition groups, including
the Brotherhood, have said that the president is grooming his
son  Gamal , a senior NDP official, to succeed him. Both men deny
this.  The lack of a designated successor to Mubarak, 82, has
fueled concern that a succession crisis may lead to political
unrest. That could endanger foreign investment needed to create
jobs and accelerate growth in the most populous Arab country.
When the president underwent surgery to remove his gallbladder
in March, investors dumped Egyptian shares and the benchmark
 EGX30 index  lost 6.7 percent in a week.  The election saw a number of violations including vote-
rigging, violence and obstruction of opposition candidates, a
coalition of Egyptian human rights groups said yesterday. The
ruling NDP fielded more than 800 candidates for parliamentary
seats.  New York-based  Human Rights Watch  said it had received
reports of “numerous” violations during the vote. These
included authorities detaining journalists and preventing the
staff of opposition candidates from entering 30 polling stations
the group visited, it said in a statement distributed to
reporters Nov. 29 in Cairo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abdel Latif Wahba  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 