-- UBS Plans to Double Commodities Staff After Unit Sale
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2010-12-01T16:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/ubs-plans-to-double-commodities-staff-a-year-after-unit-sales-to-barclays.html
(Corrects spelling in second paragraph in story that was
originally published on Dec. 1, 2010.)  UBS AG,  Switzerland ’s largest bank,
plans to double its commodities team, a year after selling most
of its raw-materials units to Barclays Plc.  The expansion of the existing team of about 40 people will
take place over the next 18 to 24 months, Hana Dunn, a London-
based spokeswoman for the bank, said by phone today. Dylan Morgan, formerly of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., started last week
as head of industrial metals and Taha Ouertani, from Tudor
Investment Corp., became head of agriculture, Dunn said.  The Zurich-based bank announced plans to withdraw from most
commodities business in October 2008 and agreed to sell its
industrial metals, oil and U.S. power and gas units to Barclays
Plc three months later. UBS sought to cut investment banking
risk after posting $48.6 billion in writedowns and losses
related to the credit crisis.  UBS Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  “has got no
worries about going back on something they did before,” said
 Christopher Wheeler , an analyst with Mediobanca SpA in  London .
“He’ll just do what he thinks is appropriate to take the
business to a sustainable level of profitability.”  Commodity assets under management rose $19 billion to a
record $340 billion in October, led by demand for index-linked
investments,  Barclays Capital  said in a report last month. The
 S&P GSCI Total Return Index (SPGSCITR)  of 24 raw materials, tracking the
net amount investors received, rose 17 percent since the end of
May. That compares with a 12 percent gain for the MSCI World
Index of equities and a 3.8 percent return for Treasuries.  Industrial Metals  UBS, which has about 65,000 employees worldwide, will
handle trading in agriculture, industrial metals, oil and gas
for clients, according to an e-mailed statement today. It will
also trade energy derivatives and continue to operate commodity
indexes and a precious-metals business.  Shares (UBSN)  of the bank rose 47 centimes, or 3.1 percent, to
15.5 Swiss francs at 5:19 p.m. in Zurich trading. That pared
this year’s decline to 3.4 percent and put the company’s market
value at 59.4 billion francs ($59.2 billion). The stock earlier
advanced as much as 3.5 percent, the biggest gain compared with
intraday prices since Sept. 1.  “Our expansion into flow trading, in areas such as
agriculture, will leverage and complement what already exists
inside UBS,” Jean Bourlot, head of commodities at the bank,
said in the statement.  Flow trading describes the short-term purchase or sale of
products on behalf of a client without any intention of holding
the product or assuming a risk position. Bourlot, former head of
agriculture trading at Morgan Stanley, started working for UBS
in August and reports to  Neal Shear , global head of securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  