-- UBS, Merrill Among Biggest Borrowers of Treasuries From Fed
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-12-01T22:20:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/ubs-merrill-were-among-biggest-borrowers-of-treasuries-from-fed-facility.html
UBS AG  and Merrill Lynch & Co. were
among the biggest users of a Federal Reserve emergency-lending
program that temporarily provided securities firms with
Treasuries in exchange for assets including mortgage debt.  A U.S. unit of Zurich-based UBS borrowed $15 billion of
Treasuries from the Fed’s  Term Securities Lending Facility  in
the program’s first round on March 27, 2008, while Merrill
Lynch, now owned by Bank of America Corp., borrowed $10 billion
that day, according to documents released today by the Fed to
comply with orders from Congress to identify recipients of $3.3
trillion in emergency aid for companies and markets.  The TSLF was the first program the Fed authorized during
the financial crisis in which the central bank invoked its
emergency powers to lend to non-banks in “unusual and exigent
circumstances.” Stocks rallied the most in five years the day
the program was announced.  The TSLF was announced as the tumbling value of U.S.
housing debt made it more difficult for financial firms to
borrow, which forced the Fed a few days later to rescue Bear
Stearns Cos. by helping JPMorgan Chase & Co. buy the New York-
based investment bank.  Bear Stearns was one of 20 banks and securities firms,
known as primary dealers, which traded directly with the Fed and
were eligible for the program. Borrowing peaked at $235.5
billion in October 2008.  UBS Pledged  Under the TSLF, dealers could place investment-grade
securities, including bonds backed by souring home loans, with
the central bank and in return receive U.S. Treasuries for 28
days. During that period, they could in turn use the government
bonds as collateral for private borrowing.  In the program’s first round, UBS pledged securities valued
at $18 billion, all of which were mortgage bonds lacking
government backing, the data released today showed. That enabled
the Swiss bank to obtain $15 billion of Treasuries with a market
value of $16.8 billion, when including items such as accrued
interest.  UBS renewed the $15 billion loan of Treasuries the next
month, with slightly different collateral. That loan and a
similarly sized draw in July 2008 by Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. were the largest uses of the program, Fed data show.  Lehman, which collapsed two months later, pledged $22.1
billion of securities, more than 73 percent of which were
government-backed mortgage bonds with the rest being mortgage
securities without such guarantees.  UBS also obtained a $12 billion loan in May 2008.  ‘Financial Crisis’  “Like other banks, UBS also accessed some of the
facilities provided during the financial crisis,” said  Karina Byrne , a spokeswoman for the company. “UBS’s usage of those
facilities should be seen in the context of our overall desire
to maintain flexibility and diversification in our funding
sources, even during the crisis.”  A unit of New York-based Merrill Lynch, which agreed to
sell itself to Bank of America the weekend that Lehman Brothers
failed, pledged about $12 billion of securities to borrow $10
billion of Treasuries with a market value of $11.2 billion in
the TSLF’s first round, Fed data show.  About 93 percent of Merrill’s pledged assets were
government-backed mortgage obligations, with the rest mostly
other mortgage securities.  ‘Financial Turmoil’  The Fed also loaned Treasuries of $10 billion to a unit of
Morgan Stanley in September 2008; a division of Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in April 2009, and a unit of  Citigroup Inc. 
in May 2009. All other uses of the program were smaller.  New York-based Morgan Stanley pledged collateral with a
value of $38.3 billion, including $19 billion of corporate
securities and $2.9 billion of municipal debt.  “As we have previously disclosed, Morgan Stanley utilized
some of the Federal Reserve’s emergency lending facilities
during a time of immense financial turmoil throughout the
banking sector and the broader market,”  Mark Lake , a Morgan
Stanley spokesman, said. “The loans, which were fully
collateralized to the requirements of each Fed facility, were
fully repaid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  