-- UN Rules Out Extending Kyoto CO2 Limits This Year, Hurting Carbon Market
-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 2010-12-01T20:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/un-rules-out-extending-kyoto-co2-limits-this-year-hurting-carbon-market.html
The United Nations envoy leading
climate talks ruled out extending greenhouse gas limits in the
Kyoto Protocol this year, leaving in place doubts about the
future of a $2.7 billion a year part of the carbon market.  Christiana Figueres , secretary general of the UN Framework
Convention on Climate Change, said a meeting in Cancun, Mexico,
wouldn’t be able to agree how to limit emissions after the
current obligations under the pact expire in 2012.  “It is very clear that given the diversity of positions on
the Kyoto Protocol it is not going to be possible for Cancun to
take a radical decision one way or the other on the Kyoto
Protocol,” Figueres said at a press conference today.  Failing to extend the 1997 accord negotiated in Japan may
put the world’s second-biggest market for emissions credits at 
risk of collapse. The organization’s Clean Development Mechanism,
worth $2.7 billion last year, is defined in the  Kyoto Protocol ,
and the credits are generated to help polluters worldwide meet
emissions targets laid down in the 1997 treaty.  Last night, Japan said it won’t help extend the Kyoto
limits. The treaty is “outdated” because it only regulates 27
percent of global emissions,  Kuni Shimada , special adviser to
Japanese Environment Minister  Ryu Matsumoto , said in an
interview.  ‘Cast a Shadow’  “This is the firmest Japan has been,”  Jake Schmidt ,
international climate policy director in Washington at the
Natural Resources Defense Council, said in an interview in
Cancun. “The fate of the Kyoto Protocol is going to cast a
shadow over what we’re trying to do here on all the other
building blocks of a climate agreement.”  Figueres said that while Japan’s position is not new, it
illustrates the complexity of the Kyoto negotiations. Countries
must “compromise” and find common ground in order to make
progress while in Cancun, she said.  The agreement negotiated in 1997 in Kyoto, Japan, binds 37
developed nations and the European community to cut emissions
from 1990 levels by a collective 5.2 percent in the five years
through 2012. The U.S. never ratified the treaty, and developing
countries such as China don’t have targets. To avoid a gap in
compliance periods, new targets need to be agreed before 2012 so
nations have time to pass the necessary domestic laws.  “There doesn’t seem to be any flexibility when you say
never,” Bernarditas Muller, a delegate from the Philippines
who’s negotiated at UN climate meetings since 1995, said today
in an interview in Cancun.  Japanese officials plan their first press briefing in
Cancun this evening.  Credits Sold  Traders this year have sold UN credits on concern Kyoto may
not be extended. Even so, with limits still in place in Europe,
companies needing to meet their EU targets on emissions
reductions may still buy UN credits after 2012.  Credits for 2012 that were created under the UN Clean
Development Mechanism, set up after the Kyoto accord, traded at
4.25 euros ($5.58) less than those in the European Union’s cap-
and-trade program as of Nov. 30. That compares with a 2.39 euro
discount at the start of the year.  Offsets for 2010 gained 0.3 percent today to 11.8 euros a
metric ton, paring their decline to 12.5 percent in the past
three months. EU permits rose 0.1 percent to 14.78 euros.  The value of credits sold by investors in CDM emissions-
reduction projects contracted 59 percent last year to $2.7
billion, according to a  World Bank report .  Talks Stall  Talks to extend Kyoto’s emission targets to the U.S. and
China, the world’s biggest emitters, failed at the 2008 UN
climate talks in Poznan, Poland.  In Copenhagen last year, negotiators were hoping to write a
global treaty replacing Kyoto. That discussion collapsed over
divisions between developed and developing nations and
differences between the U.S. and China over the scale and
monitoring of emissions cuts.  “China and India want to make sure the Kyoto Protocol is
not dead, and you’ve got Japan and Russia and Canada saying no
chance unless the U.S. and China are onboard,” Schmidt said.
“It’s a Gordian knot.”  The U.S. isn’t likely to be able to agree to binding
targets until at least 2013 because it needs to have domestic
legislation in place first, Shimada said.  “Without the active participation of the two biggest
emitters, namely China and the United States, it’s not a global
effort,” said Shimada, who was formerly Japan’s lead negotiator
at the talks. “Whatever happens, under any kind of conditions
we do not accept a second commitment period.”  Divisions on Climate  The comments indicate the depths of divisions that have
prevented a new treaty on climate change. UN officials leading
the current round of talks are aiming for more incremental
progress on protecting forests, channeling funds to poor nations
and on verifying reductions in emissions blamed for damaging the
Earth’s atmosphere.  Agreeing to an extension for the Kyoto Protocol is a key
demand by the G77 group of developing countries, China and the
43-nation Alliance of Small Island States.  “This is against the stated position of the G77,” said
Muller of the Philippines, who speaks on behalf of the bloc.
“We don’t want to kill the Kyoto Protocol, so we’re not very
happy about it.”  The 27-nation European Union has said it’s open to a second
commitment period, though it also wants action by the U.S. and
China.  U.S. Position  Jonathan Pershing , chief of the U.S. delegation, said
earlier this week that the Obama administration stands by its
commitment to reduce emissions of heat-trapping gases by 17
percent for the 15 years through 2020. He said President  Barack Obama  still thinks legislation is the right approach even after
Congress this year failed to pass a climate change law and
Democrats lost control of the House of Representatives.  “We think it may not necessarily only be comprehensive
legislation, but perhaps elements in energy or elements in other
environmental activities that could also move us in that
direction,” Pershing said.  Environmental and non-profit groups slammed Japan’s refusal
to accept a second commitment period.  “It’s shocking that at a time when the whole world is
seeking to strengthen the climate regime, Japan wants to kill
the treaty that bears its name,” Mohamed Adow, senior climate
change adviser at Christian Aid, said in an e-mailed statement.  The collapse of the UN-backed CDM carbon offset market
would impact the source of funding for renewable energy projects
in developing countries in Asia,  Haruhiko Kuroda , president of
the Asian Development Bank, said at a briefing today in Tokyo.  “The truth is that the carbon trading market has already
been impacted,” Kuroda said. If the CDM collapses, “a very
important pillar of the financing mechanism for climate change
mitigation efforts in developing countries is going to be
disappearing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kim Chipman  in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;
 Stuart Biggs  in Tokyo at 
 Sbiggs3@bloombereg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 