-- Uranium Miner Battles Floods, Skepticism as Warhead Stockpiles Dwindle
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2010-12-01T21:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/uranium-miner-fights-floods-skepticism-as-stockpile-dwindles.html
Cameco Corp.  plans to begin output at
the world’s largest untapped uranium deposit in 2013, just in
time to make up for a shortfall in global supplies. The
project’s critics say it won’t happen.  The Canadian company, the world’s  second-largest  uranium
producer, is developing the Cigar Lake mine in Saskatchewan
beneath almost a half-kilometer (1,641 feet) of water-soaked
sandstone. The mine, six years behind schedule because of
floods, could meet 10 percent of current global needs.  Uranium use will exceed supply through at least 2015,
according to the Royal Bank of Canada. China is  building  25
nuclear reactors, almost double the number in operation, while
Russia ends a program to extract uranium from atomic warheads.  “The world needs Cigar,” said  Thomas L. Neff , a physicist
at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who in the 1990s
devised the so-called HEU, or highly enriched uranium, program
to decommission the warheads.  Cameco said Nov. 8 it will proceed with an oil-industry
technology to freeze the ground at the deposit to prevent more
floods. Preventing further delay is crucial to Chief Executive
Officer  Jerry Grandey ’s goal of doubling the Saskatoon,
Saskatchewan-based company’s output to 40 million pounds by
2018.  “Since the HEU deal increasingly looks like it will come
to a full stop by the end of 2013, it’s important from a global
supply perspective that Cigar be there about the same time,”
Grandey said in a Nov. 12 interview.  Warhead Supplies  Uranium from the HEU program is responsible for almost 10
percent of U.S. electricity generation, Neff said.  Some analysts and investors who track Cameco say it will
miss its deadline.  Duncan McKeen , a Montreal-based analyst at
Macquarie Capital Markets, expects Cigar Lake won’t begin output
until 2014.  John Redstone , a Montreal-based analyst at
Desjardins Securities Inc. who visited the project in September,
predicts a 2015 startup.  “When someone has disappointed in the past, you have to
discount the guidance they give,” said  John Wong , a portfolio
manager at New City Investment Managers in London who helps
manage $450 million, including 175,000 Cameco shares. “Startup
could be six months to a year later than projected.”  Cameco  rose  $1.09, or 3 percent, to $37.36 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
fallen 4.7 percent since the first flood. In that period,  BHP
Billiton Ltd. , the world’s largest mining company, more than
doubled in London while France’s  Areva SA , the largest uranium
producer, declined 41 percent in Paris.  Chinese Expansion  At the  current uranium spot price  of $60.25 a pound, the
deposit’s 209 million pounds of the mineral are worth about
$12.6 billion. The mine will cost C$2.04 billion ($2 billion),
Cameco said in a technical report on its  website .  Cameco owns 50 percent of the project, Areva 37 percent,
Japan’s Idemitsu Kosan Co. 7.9 percent, and Tepco Resources, a
unit of Tokyo Electric Power Co., 5 percent. Cameco said Nov. 23
it agreed to supply 29 million pounds of uranium through 2025 to
 China Guangdong Nuclear Power Holding Co. , an operator of three
nuclear power stations.  Cigar Lake was discovered in May 1981 and lies under
northern jack-pine forests amid water-logged Athabasca sandstone
and less-porous rock formations.  ‘Big Sponge’  “Underground you’ve got like a big sponge filled with
water with little walnuts, which are the mineral-bearing rock,
and you’re navigating around there without having this water
rushing in,” said  John Stephenson , who helps manage C$2 billion
at First Asset Investment Management Inc. in Toronto.  Water flooded a shaft at the mine in April 2006 via a
failed valve assembly. Following a second inundation in October
2006, blamed by investigators on a lack of pumping capacity, the
price of  uranium  climbed, reaching a record $138 a pound in June
2007. A third flood in August 2008 occurred as Cameco sought to
drain the facility.  A company-commissioned investigation in May 2007 found
Cameco’s “deficient” development plans led to the second
flood. During a December 2006 hearing before the Canadian
Nuclear Safety Commission, then-member  Christopher Barnes  said
he was concerned Cameco was building the mine “without adequate
geologic, geotechnical, hydrogeologic knowledge.”  Cameco took analysts, fund managers and reporters on tours
of Cigar Lake in September to show how the sources of the floods
have been blocked and pumping capacity increased.  ‘Took a Hit’  “There’s no question our reputation took a hit,” Grandey
said in September. “I do think our performance over the last
couple of years has gone a long way to restoring that.”  The mine visit helped convince  Mark Iong , an analyst at
Manning & Napier Advisors Inc., that production will start on
schedule.  “There’s always concern during mine development that
anything can go wrong,” Fairport, New York-based Iong said in
an interview. “Our confidence level is higher.”  Cameco is also gaining the trust of regulators, said  Kevin Scissons , Saskatoon-based director of the Canadian Nuclear
Safety Commission’s uranium mills and mines division.  “The degree of risk mitigation that we’ve implemented, the
design and planning, gives us confidence,” Grandey said.
“Twenty-thirteen is still a good estimate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 