-- Bankrupt Vallejo, California, Approves Five-Year Plan for Restructuring
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2010-12-01T17:42:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/vallejo-approves-plan-to-exit-california-s-biggest-bankruptcy-since-1994.html
The city council of  Vallejo ,
California, approved a five-year plan to exit the  state’s 
largest municipal bankruptcy since Orange County sought court
protection in 1994.  Vallejo, which slashed its police and fire departments by
more than 40 percent after running out of money, aims to pay
down $195 million in unfunded pension obligations, trim retiree
health-care premiums, curb benefits for new workers and create a
reserve fund. The budget blueprint approved unanimously
yesterday will be a component of an exit plan to be presented to
a U.S. bankruptcy judge.  “Is it a perfect plan? No,” council member  Marti Brown 
said. “This is a road map. The roads on the map look like
mostly tertiary roads, and we’re going to need four-wheel drive
for some time. But it’s a map, and it’s more of a map than I
think we’ve had in a while.”  The one-time U.S. Navy town of about 120,000 on San
Francisco Bay sought protection from creditors under Chapter 9
of U.S. bankruptcy law in May 2008 after the recession eroded
tax revenue and unions rejected wage cuts. Chapter 9 allows
municipalities to reorganize debt rather than liquidate.  “This five-year plan looks out and says basically we will
be treading water for five years,”  Phil Batchelor , the interim
city manager, told the council.  Unsecured Creditors  The plan allocates $5 million for unsecured creditor
claims, which include those held by employees and retirees.
About $50 million of debt is supported by the city’s general
fund, its main account. Under the five-year plan, Vallejo would
defer principal payments until 2013, then resume paying bond
debt at about $1 million a year.  Most of the outstanding principal, about $46 million, is
held by Union Bank NA, according to Susan Mayer, the city’s
assistant finance director. The bank is a unit of San Francisco-
based  UnionBanCal Corp ., part of  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc. ,  Japan’s  biggest listed bank. Bank spokeswoman Jane Yedinak
didn’t immediately return a call.  “The plan doesn’t have a lot of money for general
unsecured creditors, and the general unsecured creditors are
owed many millions of dollars,”  Marc Levinson , a lawyer with
Sacramento-based Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP who’s
drafting the exit plan, said in an interview. “Every dollar
that goes to pay creditors is a dollar that doesn’t go to fix a
pothole or to help hire another police officer.”  Orange County  Cities and towns rarely go bankrupt. Vallejo’s filing was
the biggest in California since Orange County in 1994, then the
largest in U.S. history. Orange County, whose population of 3
million makes it the sixth-largest county in the U.S., lost $1.7
billion from a $7.6 billion investment pool when bets on
interest rates soured.  “People are hopeful that we’re taking charge of what’s
been happening in Vallejo,” council member  Michael Wilson , 41,
said in a telephone interview before the meeting. “I would hope
that over the next five years that we might be able to increase
the service levels we provide to our community, especially with
our police department, fire department, the money we could put
into roads.”  A September 2034 bond the city issued in 2003 traded at 93
cents on the dollar Nov. 18 to yield an average 6.74 percent,
according to Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Fewer Police  The city expects revenue of $65.5 million next fiscal year,
and $68.2 million by 2015. Spending is projected to be $66.4
million next year, rising to $67.6 million in the same period.  Vallejo shrank its police force to 90 officers this year
from 155 in 2003, a decline of 42 percent that eliminated most
crime-prevention programs, Batchelor said.  “The quality-of-life crimes are the things that we don’t
have the manpower to deal with,” Mat Mustard, a detective and
president of the  Vallejo Police Officer’s Association , said in a
telephone interview. “To be honest with you, that’s horrible.”  The plan calls for the city to spread out its unfunded
pension costs over 30 years. It would do so by paying a higher
amount than what it owes for the first three years and keeping
payments for the next three decades flat.  “They did what they had to do to slice things down to an
affordable level,”  Jon Schotz , co-founder and chief investment
officer at Saybrook Capital LLC in Santa Monica, California, who
oversees more than $300 million in municipal bonds, said in a
Nov. 19 telephone interview.  Shuttered Shipyard  “Every stakeholder or everyone that has a claim or is
impacted by this is going to yell, scream and stomp to try to
get their way, and we’ll see how strong the city’s spine is when
it comes to defending this plan,” Schotz said.  The fiscal road map will be included in a proposal the city
must submit to U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Michael McManus  in
Sacramento by Jan. 18.  In 1996, the U.S. Navy shut down its Mare Island shipyard,
the service’s oldest West Coast base, dealing a blow to the
city’s economy. Home prices in Solano County, which encompasses
Vallejo, fell 26 percent in the year through March 2008, and
sank a further 6.8 percent from December 2008 through September
2009, according to San Diego-based market researcher DataQuick
Information Systems.  Before Vallejo, the last California municipality to seek
protection from creditors was Desert Hot Springs in 2001. The
city, about 110 miles (177 kilometers) east of Los Angeles, went
bankrupt because of a legal judgment it couldn’t pay.  The case is In re City of Vallejo, 08-26813, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in Vallejo at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 