-- VEB Holds Talks on Buying E.ON’s Stake in Gazprom
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2010-12-01T11:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/veb-is-holding-discussions-about-buying-e-on-s-stake-in-gazprom.html
VEB, Russia’s development bank, is in
discussions about buying  E.ON AG ’s $4.7 billion stake in
 OAO Gazprom , the world’s largest gas producer.  Ekaterina Karasina, a VEB spokeswoman, confirmed talks by
telephone from Moscow today and declined to elaborate. E.ON
spokesman Carsten Thomsen-Bendixen declined by telephone to
comment.  The potential sale of E.ON’s 3.5 percent stake in Gazprom
won’t affect the “strategic quality” of their relationship,
Klaus Mangold, the head of the Committee on Eastern European
Economic Relations, a German lobby group, said after Prime
Minister Vladimir Putin met Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in Berlin
on Nov. 26.  E.ON’s Ruhrgas unit reduced its stake from 6.5 percent last
year in exchange for a stake of 25 percent minus three shares in
a Gazprom unit developing the Yuzhno-Russkoye gas field in
western Siberia last year. E.ON Chief Executive Officer  Johannes Teyssen  said Nov. 10 that the stake in Gazprom itself is a
“non-strategic asset.”  The prospect of VEB buying EON’s stake in Gazprom at market
price is “slightly negative” for the ruble and is contributing
 to the currency’s stagnation against the central bank’s target
dollar-euro basket today, said  Denis Korshilov , head of foreign-
exchange trading in Moscow at Citigroup Inc. Any acquisition
would require VEB to source foreign currency, suppressing the
ruble, Korshilov said by e-mail.  Gazprom shares rose as much as 2.1 percent, the biggest
intraday gain in three weeks, and traded up 2 percent at 177.90
rubles at 2:15 p.m., giving the Russian export monopoly a market
value of $133 billion.  E.ON aims to raise 15 billion euros ($19.6 billion) in
asset sales by the end of 2013. Houston-based  ConocoPhillips  has
sold most of the 20 percent stake it held in OAO Lukoil,
Russia’s second largest oil producer, as it seeks to raise money
to repay debt and buy back shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  