-- Verizon to Debut Faster, 4G Wireless Network Dec. 5
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-12-01T21:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/verizon-to-debut-fourth-generation-mobile-network-dec-5-ahead-of-at-t.html
Verizon Wireless will start its
faster, so-called fourth-generation mobile service Dec. 5, among
the first U.S. carriers to debut such a network as competition
for users who spend money on Web browsing and video intensifies.  Contracts will start at $50 a month, giving users 5
gigabytes of data, Verizon, the biggest U.S. mobile-phone
carrier, said in a statement today. The company introduced two
modems that allow laptop users to connect to the network and
said it plans to unveil mobile phones for the service next year.  Verizon said the network, which uses technology called
long-term evolution, gives customers speeds ten times faster
than older 3G networks, eventually enabling features like high-
definition video and live television streaming. Verizon is using
the faster speeds to lure users from rivals such as  AT&T Inc. ,
the exclusive carrier for  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone, which won’t start
a 4G service until next year.  “I would expect this to further cement the marketing
message of the power and speed of the network,” a cornerstone
of Verizon’s advertising strategy, said  Michael Nelson , an
analyst at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in New York, who rates the
shares “outperform” and doesn’t own any. Still, there’s no
guarantee the network will lead to market-share gains, he said.  Verizon Wireless, based in Basking Ridge, New Jersey, and
rivals are vying for customers as the pool of new users shrinks.
There are enough mobile devices for 93 percent of the
population, according to the CTIA mobile industry association.  Higher Data Rates  The average 4G data rate will be 5 to 12 megabits per
second, more like what customers are used to from landline
connections at home, Verizon said. The least expensive data plan
is $9.99  cheaper  than the comparable 3G modem plan. The new 4G
modems cost $99.99 with a two-year contract, after a $50 rebate.  Analysts, including  Tim Horan  from Oppenheimer & Co., have
estimated that Verizon is  spending  about $3 billion for the
network upgrade. Verizon has said the buildout won’t impact its
capital spending budget as the company has diverted funds from
its fiber-optic television and Internet network, FiOS.  Verizon Communications Inc. , which co-owns the mobile
company with Vodafone Group Plc, rose 34 cents to $32.35 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading .  Phones, Tablets  Verizon will unveil half a dozen smartphones and tablets
for the new network in January and more devices will be on sale
by mid-2011, Melone said. The company has said that it plans to
reach two-thirds of the U.S. population with LTE in the next
year and a half.  The service will cover more than 110 million people when it
goes on sale this week, serving subscribers in Boston, New York,
Washington, Southern California, Miami and other markets.  Sprint Nextel Corp.  began selling 4G service via its WiMax
technology this year through a partnership with Clearwire Corp.
Sprint’s 4G Evo phone, made by HTC Corp., went on sale in June
for $199.99 and features high-definition video downloads and
video calling. Verizon’s backing may help the faster networks
gain more popularity, Chief Technology Officer  Tony Melone  said
on a conference call.  “LTE with Verizon behind it, and the scale we’re putting
into it, will really make the difference,” Melone said.  AT&T’s Plans  AT&T, the No. 2 mobile carrier, will also use the LTE
standard for its network. The carrier is upgrading to a faster
3G service before starting the 4G service next year.  “That matters because when we begin commercial deployment
of LTE in mid-2011, customers on our LTE network will be able to
fall back to” the upgraded 3G service, AT&T  CTO   John Donovan 
said on the company’s  blog  today. “Customers of carriers who
chose not to upgrade their current networks will move in and out
of LTE coverage areas as well. But as they do, they’ll
experience a jarring speed degradation.”  Carriers are targeting customers with faster speeds as
smartphone use becomes more popular and accounts for bigger
portion of revenue. Almost a third of U.S. mobile-phone users
had a smartphone at the end of October, Nielsen Co. said today.  Verizon said that the portion of customers’ monthly bills
that came from data plans increased 19 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier. Overall bills grew 1.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Amy Thomson  in New York at  athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  