-- Vietnam Asks Central Bank to Stabilize Foreign Exchange Rate, Gold Price
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-01T04:24:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/vietnam-to-stabilize-commodity-prices-foreign-exchange-rate-dung-says.html
Vietnam’s Prime Minister  Nguyen Tan Dung  has asked the central bank to stabilize the foreign-
exchange and gold markets after the gap between official and
black rates widened and the price of the precious metal surged.  The State Bank of Vietnam was asked to “impose strong,
effective and timely measures,” to achieve stability, according
to a statement posted on the government’s website late yesterday.
Dung also requested the bank to coordinate with authorities to
examine and curb illegal gold and foreign-currency speculation.  Policy makers in the Southeast Asian nation have devalued
the dong’s official reference rate three times since November
last year. The falling currency and accelerating inflation
pushed the gold price in Vietnam to a record last month,
prompting the government to allow businesses to import the metal.  The prime minister also asked the central bank to continue
operating monetary policy in a “flexible and proactive” manner,
including ensuring sufficient liquidity for the economy and the
banking system. The statement didn’t clarify exactly which steps
the State Bank of Vietnam should take.  The Vietnamese dong traded officially at 19,498 per dollar
as of 10:33 a.m. in Hanoi. In the so-called black market, the
currency was trading from 21,480 to 21,580, according to an
information service run by Vietnam Posts and Telecommunications.  Commodity Prices  The prime minister also requested ministries and relevant
authorities to control commodity prices in an attempt to curb
 inflation , which climbed to 11.09 percent in November from a
year earlier, the fastest pace since March 2009.  Accelerating consumer prices have “negatively affected”
production and people’s lives, Dung said. The government will
take steps to control inflation, especially in the run-up to the
Tet Lunar New Year holiday in February 2011, he said last week.  In the statement, Dung assigned the Ministry of Finance to
coordinate with other bodies to maintain the prices of coal,
electricity and petrol.  The central bank raised interest rates on Nov. 5 for the
first time in almost a year, a day after the chairman of the
National Financial Supervisory Commission said curbing inflation
was a greater priority than boosting economic growth.  The government said in May it was targeting inflation of no
more than 8 percent this year.  Nguyen Xuan Phuc , chairman of
Vietnam’s government office, said on Nov. 6 the country will aim
for a “single-digit rate.”  Vietnam’s economy may expand 6.7 percent in 2010, Dung told
the National Assembly on Oct. 20. The administration will target
growth of up to 7.5 percent next year and an inflation rate of
about 7 percent, he said.  -- Nguyen Kieu Giang  in Hanoi. Editors:  Sunil Jagtiani ,  Alan Soughley   To contact Bloomberg Staff on this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at +84-4-3936-6725 or
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi 
 oha3@bloomberg.net   