-- Virgin Media to Offer TiVo Web-TV Platform From December to Lure Clients
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-12-01T15:31:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/virgin-media-to-offer-tivo-web-tv-platform-from-mid-december.html
Virgin Media Inc.,  the U.K.’s second-
largest pay-television company, will start an Web TV platform
with partner  TiVo Inc.  from the middle of December to sell
additional services. The stock rose as much as 3.5 percent.  The offering will provide Web applications such as a catch-
up service from British Broadcasting Corp., videos from  Google
Inc .’s YouTube, shopping from online marketplace eBay Inc. and
photos from sites such as Facebook, the Hook, England-based
company said today in an e-mailed statement.  Virgin Media is adding new services as it competes with
rival  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc  and free-to-air
television channels offering their own Web-based television
platforms that allow users to browse the Internet for programs.
The BBC and phone company BT Group Plc will offer the YouView
platform from the middle of 2011.  “The new service will differentiate us from the
competition,” Virgin Media Chief Executive Officer  Neil Berkett 
told reporters on a conference call today. “It will be faster,
better and offer more choice.”  Virgin Media shares gained as much as 88 cents to $26.36 in
New York trading, the biggest intraday increase since Sept. 24,
and were up 2.4 percent as of 10:13 a.m. local time. TiVo shares
rose as much as 3.9 percent.  Digital Video Recorders  TiVo has attempted to reverse subscriber losses by leasing
its software directly to U.S. pay-TV providers such as Comcast
Corp. and DirecTV. The company is also working with Cox
Communications Inc. and RCN Corp., a cable service in New York,
Philadelphia and Washington, to offer its boxes as the primary
digital video recorder choice.  “For the first time, viewers will have a truly
personalized viewing experience so they can get the most out of
the wonderful worlds of the Internet and TV all in one place,”
Cindy Rose, Virgin Media’s executive director of digital
entertainment, said in the statement.  U.K. viewers are starting to move away from traditional
broadcast channels to watch programs on demand through the
Internet. About 2.3 percent of viewers watch TV through on-
demand services, according to estimates from Richard Broughton,
an analyst at Screen Digest.  Virgin Media CEO Berkett, who took over in 2008, initially
changed the company’s focus to broadband and basic TV rather
than competing with  Rupert Murdoch ’s BSkyB in premium pay-TV.
The company sold some of its television channels to BSkyB for as
much as 160 million pounds ($249 million) in June.  Faster Broadband Speeds  Virgin Media’s third-quarter earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation, amortization and other charges rose 11
percent as subscribers opted for its faster and more expensive
broadband products, the company said last month.  Clients are subscribing to faster broadband speeds, which
pushed up average cable revenue per user by 3.7 percent in the
quarter. The company is preparing to start its 100 megabits-per-
second broadband at the end of the year, and said it will
complete the roll-out by the middle of 2012.  Chief Financial Officer  Eamonn O’Hare  has said that the
proposed YouView platform, from BT and the BBC and partners  ITV
Plc  and  TalkTalk Telecom Group Plc , may benefit Virgin Media.
“We welcome it if it’s going to drive more sophisticated
content into the home.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London via 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 