-- Volcker Says Dollar's Role in Danger as U.S. Influence Declines Globally
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2010-12-01T15:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/volcker-says-dollar-s-global-role-is-in-danger-as-u-s-influence-declines.html
Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , who is chairman of President  Barack Obama ’s Economic
Recovery Advisory Board, said the U.S. dollar is in danger of
losing its role as a global benchmark currency.  “The growing question is whether the exceptional role of
 the dollar  can be maintained,” Volcker told a gathering of New
York civic leaders at the University Club of New York last
night.  The decline of the U.S. economy, political gridlock at
home, U.S. involvement in two wars and “festering”
geopolitical issues in the Middle East and Asia have undermined
the ability of the U.S. to influence global events, Volcker
said.  Volcker offered no prescriptive solutions as he spoke in
broad terms of the country’s loss of stature.  “This is a troubling time for America, a troubling time
for the world,” Volcker said in remarks to Common Cause, a
civic group. He said the U.S. is facing its most difficult
economic crisis since World War II. “If ever there were a need
for clear-headed, confident leadership, nationally and
internationally, that time is now.”  The dollar weakened today against 14 of the 16 most traded
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, trading at $1.31 to the euro.
For 2010, the  Dollar Index , which follows six of the biggest
U.S. trading partners, is up 3.9 percent. Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency indexes show America’s legal tender has kept
its value almost unchanged since 1975.  U.S. Example  Even as the U.S. remains the world’s pre-eminent nation by
default, Volcker said, its example no longer inspires other
countries to trust U.S. leadership. He said the U.S. is hobbled
by lobbyists and an unwillingness to pass realistic budgets, as
well as a civil service that he said has lost its ability to
attract America’s best and brightest to public service.  “The time is gone when the U.S. could lay claim as the
putative superpower with both unchallenged economic and military
might,” Volcker said.  “The growing sense around much of the world is that we
have lost both relative economic strength and more important, we
have lost a coherent successful governing model to be emulated
by the rest of the world,” Volcker said. “Instead, we’re faced
with broken financial markets, underperformance of our economy
and a fractious political climate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter S. Green  in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  