-- Wheat Surges as `Panic Brewing' on Australian Crop Amid Rising Global Use
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-12-01T21:20:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/wheat-surges-as-rain-delays-australia-harvest-rice-futures-gain.html
Wheat prices jumped the most in seven
weeks as excessive rainfall threatened to reduce grain quality
and delay the harvest in Australia, the world’s fourth-largest
exporter. Rice futures rose the most since August.  Areas of New South Wales, the biggest wheat-producing
state, got more than 5 centimeters (2 inches) of  rain  in the
past 24 hours, according to data from Australia’s Bureau of
Meteorology. The three months ended Nov. 30 were the country’s
wettest on record, the agency said. The harvest may be four
weeks behind normal, said GrainCorp Ltd., the top bulk-wheat
handler in the eastern region.  “There is continued wet weather in eastern Australia
during the harvest, and forecasts are adding additional
precipitation out for the next two weeks,” said  Jim Hemminger ,
a risk-management specialist at Top Third Ag Marketing in
Chicago. “Because of the adverse weather, the quality is going
to be poor, so it may become feed” for livestock, he said.  Wheat futures for March delivery jumped 49.5 cents, or 7.2
percent, to settle at $7.40 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago
Board of Trade. That marked the biggest gain for a most-active
contract since Oct. 8. Earlier, the commodity reached $7.45, the
highest since Nov. 12.  Wheat has surged 54 percent since the end of June as
drought in Russia and floods in Canada cut global supplies. Dry
weather in the U.S. Great Plains has threatened winter crops.  Egyptian Demand  Shrinking world supplies of milling-quality wheat may be
spurring demand from Egypt, the biggest importer, said Austin
Damiani, a floor broker at the Minneapolis Grain Exchange. Egypt
said today it bought 220,000 metric tons in a tender from the
U.S.  “We’ve seen deteriorating quality of the crops in
Australia,” said Damiani, who works for Frontier Futures Inc.
“There’s a little bit of a panic brewing, and I think the
Egyptian tender is a testament that end-users are short high-
quality wheat.”  The U.S. is the world’s largest exporter, followed by
France and Canada, according to data from the International
Grains Council and FranceAgriMer.  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  Rice futures for January delivery climbed 49.5 cents, or
3.6 percent, to $14.375 per 100 pounds, the biggest gain since
Aug. 23.  Earlier, the price reached $14.38, the highest since Nov.
12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  