-- Why Rato Smiles After Spanish Banks Proved No Amusing Failure
-- B y   V e r n o n   S i l v e r   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2010-12-01T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/why-rodrigo-rato-is-smiling-after-spanish-banks-proved-no-amusing-failure.html
To shore up the Spanish banking
system,  Caja Madrid  Chairman Rodrigo Rato may offload a stake in
a water ride inspired by the Greek god Triton, a restaurant
modeled after a Roman villa and an Egyptian-themed fun house
called the Piramide del Terror.  The attractions are part of a seaside amusement park called
Terra Mitica that lost more than 203 million euros ($283 million)
since it opened in 2000 with financing from local savings banks.  Today, the park on the Mediterranean coast outside Benidorm
stands as a roller coaster-filled monument to the politically
driven lending spree that helped push some of Spain’s savings
banks to require government bailouts -- and that now threatens
the whole country’s economy, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports
in its January 2011 issue.  The savings banks, known as cajas, have been largely
controlled by representatives of regional governments, who
funded construction projects to boost local economies. When  Spain ’s real-estate bubble burst in 2008, property values
dropped by more than 20 percent. As of August, the country’s bad
bank debt had reached 102.5 billion euros, more than Italy or  Greece .  Bad loans as a proportion of total loans were 5.62 percent
in August compared with a median of 3.2 percent for 22 of  Europe ’s biggest banks, according to New York-based research
firm CreditSights Inc.  Rato, 61, was the economy minister who paved the way for
Spain’s adoption of the euro in 1999 -- helping to create some
of the economic problems he’s now trying to tackle.  Rioja to Canaries  As Spain adapted to the euro zone’s requirements in the
mid-1990s, it was able to cut  interest rates  to be in line
with those of other future euro nations. Average mortgage rates
plunged to 3.5 percent in 2003 from 11 percent in 1995, sparking
a real-estate boom.  Spending on construction -- particularly along the
Mediterranean and in  Madrid  -- fueled Spain’s average annual
growth of 3.75 percent from 1999 to 2007, compared with 2.24
percent for the euro area as a whole. After leaving the Spanish
government, Rato headed the  International Monetary Fund  in  Washington  from 2004 to 2007, returning to Spain before global
financial markets seized up.  Now he’s managing Caja Madrid’s transformation into the
third-largest lender based in Spain via a merger with six
smaller rivals. As part of the merger, which was encouraged by
the Bank of Spain, the government is lending the bank 4.5
billion euros of capital. The sprawling group includes Valencia-
based Bancaja, which owns 24 percent of Terra Mitica, and
lenders that stretch from the Rioja wine region to the  Canary
Islands  off the coast of  Africa .  Possible Downgrade  “This is an emblematic merger because of its size, and its
success is of key importance to the entire financial system’s
health and future competitiveness,” says Elena Iparraguirre, an
analyst at Standard & Poor’s in Madrid. In June, S&P put Caja
Madrid’s long-term debt rating under review for a possible
downgrade from A, five steps above non-investment grade.  The merged bank will be Spain’s No. 3 based on its assets
of 339 billion euros, behind Madrid-based  Banco Santander , with
1.24 trillion euros, and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA ,
with 557.8 billion euros.  Spain, one of the 16-country euro zone’s fastest-growing
nations as recently as 2006, is now a laggard. After creating
more than half of the 5 million new jobs in the euro area from
2001 through 2006, Spain has lost more jobs than any other euro
nation. Unemployment surged to 20.8 percent in September as the
economy shrank for two years in a row.  Mythical Land  Spanish lenders now pay the biggest premium ever on their
Debt relative to other banks in Europe. Spreads on Spanish bank
bonds in euros rose to a record 166 basis points more than the
average for all lender debt denominated in the currency on
Nov. 30, up from a gap of 63 basis points on Oct. 31, according
to Bank of America data.  The government projected a  budget deficit  of 9.3 percent of
GDP in 2010, more than three times the euro zone ceiling, and
growth of 1.3 percent in 2011. Spain is trying to trim that in
part by slicing state workers’ wages -- and potentially slowing
the economy.  The Bank of Spain, concerned about mounting bad debts at
the savings banks, has been urging lenders to combine. The
country’s 45 savings banks will be reduced to 18 through 13
different mergers, according to the central bank.  ‘How Is It Possible?’  “It’s clearly very necessary to repair the savings banks
but the process raises some doubts in my mind,” says Eduardo
Martinez-Abascal, a professor of financial management at IESE
business school in  Barcelona . “How is it possible to merge
three, four or even seven bad cajas and come up with one healthy
one?”  Risky loans and investments are among the hidden dangers
that could undo a recovery. Terra Mitica -- which translates as
Mythical Land -- is just one money loser. (In 2010, the park’s
owners contracted with a new management company that has an
option to buy it.)  Of Caja Madrid’s 235.8 billion euros of loans and property
investments, the bank estimates 18 percent of that total could
default, resulting in a 16 billion euro loss.  The bank says the new capital lent by the government and
the 1.1 billion euros the bank set aside in 2010 to cover losses
should enable Caja Madrid to withstand the defaults.  Job cuts and other cost savings will bring the bank back to
health and enable it to repay the government, Rato says.  ‘Pushed Ahead’  “We clearly know what problems we have, we are tackling
them and we have pushed ahead,” Rato said in a Nov. 16 speech in
Madrid.  Caja Madrid may need even more bailout money before Rato
can turn it around, says Lorenzo Bernaldo de Quiros, a Spanish
economist who served from 1996 through 2004 on a panel that
advised Rato as economy minister.  “It’s not a merger of one healthy company with a sick one;
it’s a merger of a very sick company with another that’s
critical,” he says, referring to Caja Madrid and Bancaja, the
two largest banks in the merger.  Bancaja’s profit tumbled 32 percent to 170.1 million euros
in the first nine months of 2010, while Caja Madrid’s profit
plunged 63 percent to 231.6 million euros.  Ownership Structure  One obstacle to job cuts and asset sales is the ownership
structure of the cajas. The banks are controlled by general
assemblies that include representatives of local government,
employees and depositors rather than stockholders. After the
merger is completed in January, Caja Madrid will control
52 percent of the bank’s voting rights while the other cajas
will control the rest.  These boards elect the bank’s top managers, who have to
balance the goals of profitability with serving local interests,
says Alberto Recarte, who was a board member of Caja Madrid for 18
years through 2009.  Throughout the boom years, Caja Madrid lent heavily to
construction firms. “It was one of the cajas that took least
care with lending to real-estate developers,” says Recarte, 63,
who worked as an economist for Rato’s conservative People’s
Party from 1992 through 1996.  In 2008, Caja Madrid set aside 271 million euros to cover
losses on about 1 billion euros in loans to  Martinsa-Fadesa SA ,
a Madrid-based developer that sought bankruptcy protection in
July of that year.  Local Interests  Caja Madrid supported other local interests. In 2007, it
invested about 460 million euros in  Iberia Lineas Aereas de
Espana SA , which was the target of a takeover by British Airways
Plc and U.S. buyout firm TPG Capital, formerly known as Texas
Pacific Group. A spokesman for Caja Madrid said at the time that
the bank wanted the carrier to remain “in Spanish hands.”  Iberia is based at Madrid’s Barajas Airport, which provides
jobs directly and indirectly to 170,000 people and generates
about 10 billion euros in economic activity for the region
annually.  The pattern was repeated across Spain. Bancaja has lost
money on investments in a local Formula 1 auto-racing venture
and loaned money to the Valencia CF soccer team, which has had
to sell players to stay afloat.  Rato’s political pedigree makes him well suited to navigate
the challenges of running the merged bank, Recarte says. “He is
above all a politician,” Recarte says. “It’s Rato’s political
authority that can make this merger happen.”  ‘Cajas Can Change’  Rato himself says his new job isn’t about politics, but
banks. “This is a chance to show that cajas can change,” he says
in his Madrid office.  From a young age, Rato saw that banking success can be
fleeting.  His father, Ramon, who owned two banks, was convicted in
1967 of making unauthorized transfers of Spanish currency to  Switzerland  and sentenced to three years in prison, according to
“Rodrigo Rato: The Political and Personal Biography of the
Mastermind of Economic Change in Spain,” (La Esfera del los
Libros, 2003) by Amador G. Ayora. The book says the verdict led to
the seizure of family assets and the failure of the banks: Banco
Murciano and Banco de Siero.  In 1971, Ramon was pardoned under an amnesty that allowed
the family to recover assets, including radio stations,
according to the book.  Berkeley MBA  Rato earned a law degree from the Complutense University of
Madrid in 1971. He moved to the U.S. to attend the University of
California, Berkeley, where he earned an MBA in 1974.  In 1975, a year after Rato returned to Spain, dictator
Francisco Franco died, ending one-party rule.  Rato jumped into the democratic fray, joining the People’s
Alliance, a grouping of social and political conservatives
founded by former members of Franco’s last government. It was
the precursor to today’s People’s Party, currently in opposition
to the ruling Socialists. Rato won election to parliament
in 1982.  The People’s Party came to power after 20 years in
opposition, in 1996, when it made a deal with the Catalan
nationalist party Convergencia i Unio to obtain a ruling
majority. Over a dinner of shrimp, lobster and crema catalana
dessert at the Majestic Hotel in Barcelona, Rato and party
leader Jose Maria Aznar agreed to concessions on autonomy,
including handing over more powers to the Catalan police.  Rato became economy minister in Aznar’s government and
embarked on a campaign to get Spain into the euro zone.  Wages Frozen  To reduce the budget deficit below the 3 percent required,
Aznar’s government froze civil servants’ wages and cut public
works spending. By 1999, the deficit had fallen to 1.4 percent
of GDP from 4.8 percent when Aznar became prime minister.  Once Spain adopted the currency, the economy took off.
Rates plunged, and construction boomed.  In 2000, Terra Mitica opened its gates on the coast south
of Valencia, aiming to attract a clientele of Britons, Germans
and other Northern Europeans who had rushed to buy vacation
homes along the Mediterranean coast with their euros and pounds.
Rato also cut the highest income tax rate to 48 percent from 56
percent, giving the wealthy more disposable income.  With hindsight, some economists blame Rato for failing to
use the good times to make lasting changes in the country’s
economy.  ‘Partly His Fault’  “He didn’t do enough to improve competitiveness,” says
Xavier Sala-i-Martin, a Columbia University economics professor
who served with Rato on a Spanish industry commission for
pension reform. “When the crisis came, the country didn’t have a
substitute for construction and tourism, and that is at least
partly his fault.”  Rato, like his predecessors, wasn’t able to change labor
laws that make it hard to hire and fire workers or develop
industries that could create new jobs when the construction and
tourism boom ended, Sala-i-Martin adds.  In March 2004, Rato’s People’s Party was poised to win
another majority. Then, three days before the general election,
a series of terrorist bombings in Madrid railway stations and
commuter trains killed 191 people. An electorate stunned by the
tragedy voted for change, ejecting Rato’s People’s Party from
power in favor of the Socialists.  In June 2004, Rato became chief of the IMF. Riding his
reputation for overseeing 32 straight quarters of growth in
Spain, and supported by the EU, he beat out Mohamed A. El-Erian,
who at the time was a money manager at Pacific Investment
Management Co., for the post of IMF managing director.  (El-Erian, a former IMF deputy director, moved to
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , to manage Harvard University’s
endowment and later returned to Newport Beach, California-based
Pimco, where he’s now chief executive officer.)  ‘Completely Bored’  Rato presided over the Washington-based organization during
a period when global economic meltdowns were few and far
between.  By June 2007, the international lender’s worldwide
portfolio had shriveled to $11.8 billion from a peak of $81
billion in 2004, and a single nation,  Turkey , accounted for
about 75 percent of its loans. Rato’s main contribution was
insisting in June 2007 that members reject currency policies
that create instability for other countries.  “He was completely bored by the IMF,” Recarte says.  In October 2007, two years before his term was to end, Rato
quit, citing family reasons and saying he was concerned about
his children’s education.  Investment Banking  Back in Spain in 2008, Rato worked as an investment banking
adviser to Banco Santander and as a senior managing director at  Lazard Ltd ., helping the firm win Spanish clients.  In January 2010, the local politicians who control Caja
Madrid, acting on orders from the People’s Party’s national
leadership, elected Rato to run the bank. Five months later, as
the economic crisis crested, the Bank of Spain coaxed savings
banks to combine.  Even before the Caja Madrid merger is finalized, Rato has
been working to streamline the group.  In October, he raised 157 million euros with the sale of a
3.4 percent stake in Casablanca, Morocco, lender Attijariwafa
Bank. He will close some of the 1,380 branches in cities where
the merged banks have overlap.  He also plans to save 500 million euros annually in part by
cutting as many as 4,000 positions -- or 15 percent of the work
force of 26,000. To achieve his goals, Rato will have to
negotiate with Spain’s powerful trade unions.  Comisiones Obreras, one of the country’s biggest labor
unions, opposes Rato’s plan to offer 2,500 employees early
retirement to reach his goal of cutting 4,000 jobs. It wants to
increase the number of those taking early retirement.  Rato has won over union chiefs in the past.  “He is a person I always felt I could trust,” says Jose Maria Fidalgo, former head of Comisiones Obreras.  ‘Lost Coins’  He recalls that after visiting Rato in his Economy Ministry
office on Cuzco Square in Madrid around 2001, he received by
courier an envelope containing a few coins and a handwritten
note.  “Jose Maria, so that you can see I’m a good person, I’m
returning these coins” that had fallen out of Fidalgo’s pocket
during the chat, he recalls the note saying.  Rato now has to build his reputation as a banker who can
modernize an institution that dates back to 1702.  “Caja Madrid is a company with more than 300 years of life
behind it,” Rato said in his Nov. 16 speech. “With great effort
we will guide it toward a positive outcome.”  A monument to the bank’s long history is on view from
Rato’s office: architect Santiago Calatrava’s 92-meter (302-
foot) golden obelisk, Caja Madrid’s gift to the city to mark the
anniversary of the bank’s founding.  After watching the work he did bringing Spain into the euro
fall apart amid the credit crunch, Rato’s new role gives him a
chance to repair the damage, one investment at a time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vernon Silver in Rome at 
 vtsilver@bloomberg.net 
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Or
Michael Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net  