-- WikiLeaks Founder Assange Added to Interpol's Wanted List for Rape Charge
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2010-12-01T14:21:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/wikileaks-founder-assange-added-to-interpol-s-wanted-list-for-rape-charge.html
Interpol , the world’s biggest
international police organization, added WikiLeaks founder
 Julian Assange  to its  wanted  list after Sweden issued an arrest
warrant for him on rape charges.  Assange, 39, originally from Townsville, Australia, is
being sought under the Lyon-based organization’s  Red Notice ,
authorizing local police forces in member states to arrest him
and hold him for extradition, according to Interpol’s website.  The request for his arrest comes as WikiLeaks continues to
release diplomatic cables, including some secret correspondence,
on its  website . The planned release of 251,287 documents, of
which  291 are currently available , has been condemned by several
world leaders, with U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
calling it “an attack on the international community.”  Assange is accused of rape and sexual molestation after two
women complained in August when he was in Sweden giving lectures
on WikiLeaks’ publishing of classified U.S. military documents
related to the war in Afghanistan. He has denied the charges and
his lawyer in the U.K., Mark Stephens, has said that Assange had
consensual sex with the women.  Assange is only wanted as a witness in Sweden, Stephens,
said in an e-mail today. “The U.K. police know how to contact
him,” he said. “He is not and has never been on the run.”  ”This appears to be a persecution and a prosecution,”
Stephens said in a separate e-mail. He said Assange has
repeatedly sought meetings with the Swedish prosecutor. “But his
requests have either been ignored or met with a refusal,”
Stephens said.  Stephens regularly represents several media organizations,
including Bloomberg News.  Decision Appealed  Assange has appealed the Nov. 24 decision of a Swedish
court that upheld an arrest warrant on rape charges, Expressen
newspaper reported yesterday, citing court officials.  “The Australian government is aware Mr. Assange is the
subject of an Interpol Red Notice,” the attorney general’s
office said today in an e-mailed statement.  Australian  Federal Police  follows agreed protocols to
Interpol notices which may “include arrest” and notification
through Interpol to the agency seeking arrest or extradition if
the subject is in Australia, according to the statement.  The government won’t disclose if it has received an
extradition request until an arrest is made, the attorney
general’s office said.  Robert McClelland , the attorney general, said on Nov. 29
that he had asked the Australian Federal Police to investigate
the leaks and whether any Australian laws were broken.  ‘Task Force’  “Australia will support any law enforcement action that
may be taken,” he told reporters. “We have formed a whole-of-
government task force to look at the issues.”  WikiLeaks.org receives confidential material that
governments and businesses want to keep secret and posts the
information on the Internet “so readers and historians alike
can see evidence of the truth,” the organization says on its
website.  Assange’s application for a Swedish residence and work
permit, which would have allowed him to establish WikiLeaks as a
Swedish publication protected by the constitution, was turned
down by the Migration Board.  WikiLeaks, which Assange calls “a library of suppressed
history,” was started in 2006. It has collected and publicized
more than 91,000 secret U.S. military reports from Afghanistan
and a military video of a July 2007 helicopter attack in Iraq
that killed a Reuters television cameraman and his driver.  Computer Hacker  Assange began as a computer hacker in Australia. His
activities prompted the federal government to change the
country’s Crimes Act to deal with computer-related offenses,
according to court documents.  Assange pleaded guilty in 1996 to 24 counts of violating
the Crimes Act by accessing information and inserting
information into computers, commonly known as hacking. They
included accessing computers of  Nortel Networks Corp. , then
Canada’s biggest maker of telecommunications equipment. He faced
a penalty of as much as 10 years in jail.  In fining him A$2,100 ($2,023) and putting him on probation
for three years, the judge in Melbourne said at the time Assange
didn’t access the computers for any personal gain.  Christine Assange, his mother, today told Australia’s ABC
radio she was distressed by the news her son is on an Interpol
wanted list.  “I don’t want him hunted down and jailed,” she said.  -- Editors:  Suresh Seshadri ,  Douglas Wong .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net  