-- WikiLeaks Secrecy Breach May Prompt U.S. to Reverse Post-9/11 Data Sharing
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2010-12-01T15:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/wikileaks-secrecy-breach-may-upturn-post-sept-11-u-s-data-sharing.html
The U.S. government is rolling back
years of efforts to internally share information on terrorists
and other threats, a result that runs counter to WikiLeaks.org
founder  Julian Assange ’s stated goal of making government more
open.  The July WikiLeaks release of 75,000 records from the
Afghan War, October’s leak of 400,000 Army field reports from
Iraq and this week’s deluge of 250,000 cables from U.S.
embassies around the world have prompted the Pentagon and the
State Department to cut back access. White House Budget Director
 Jacob Lew  has ordered all agencies to review security for
classified data.  The commission that studied the intelligence failures
preceding the Sept. 11 terror attacks on New York and the
Pentagon said the failure to share critical information among
government agencies was partly to blame. The  9/11 Commission 
called for government agencies to replace their “need-to-know”
strictures with a “need-to-share” philosophy to raise their
odds of piecing together evidence that would prevent attacks.  “Obviously that aperture went too wide,” Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates  told reporters at the Pentagon yesterday.
“There’s no reason for a young officer at a forward operating
post in Afghanistan to get cables having to do with” Russian
nuclear arms negotiations, he said as an example.  Spreading confidential information widely across the
government increases the chance of leaks. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  on Monday said WikiLeaks’ disclosure of
sensitive diplomatic cables could hurt negotiations and in some
cases endanger individuals.  Balancing Needs  The State Department has tightened up the way those
documents will be shared in the future. Even people who called
for greater sharing following the Sept. 11 attacks say it was
time for a correction.  “We understood after 9/11 we didn’t share enough,” White
House spokesman  Robert Gibbs  said today on CNN’s “American
Morning” program. “Now we understand we have to balance the
need to share with the need to know.”  “I think it’s going to swing back,” said Richard
Fontaine, a former  Senate Armed Services Committee  staff member
who helped draft legislation implementing the 9/11 Commission’s
recommendations. “The cost of this and the Afghanistan and Iraq
leaks seriously outweighs the benefits of having this kind of
information” shared so broadly, Fontaine said.  The latest release from WikiLeaks includes cables from 274
U.S. embassies, including confidential assessments of foreign
leaders such as German President  Angela Merkel  and sensitive
conversations about strategy on Iran, China or Russia.  More Restrictions  “There’s going to be more restrictions and greater
compartmentalization of information,” said Fontaine, a senior
fellow at the Center for a New American Security in Washington.  The 9/11 Commission criticized just such restrictions. Its
2004 report cited the case of a plotter who went undetected
because information was “distributed, but in a compartmented
channel.” The panel stressed the “importance of intelligence
analysis that can draw on all relevant sources of information.”  The military and the State Department are working with the
Justice Department to investigate the leaks. U.S. Army
intelligence specialist Bradley Manning, who served as an
analyst in Iraq, was arrested in June at age 22 on suspicion of
illegally releasing classified information. Officials haven’t
revealed which contents he is suspected of leaking.  Manning, a private first-class, had said in an online chat
in May that the documents he downloaded included “260,000 State
Department cables from embassies and consulates all over the
world,” the New York Times reported this week.  ‘Serious Question’  “Why he was able to get from his area of operation all
across the government raises a serious question about do we have
appropriate compartmentalization,” former Homeland Security
Secretary  Michael Chertoff , co-founder and managing principal of
the Chertoff Group in Washington, said in an interview
yesterday.  The State Department information leaked this week was kept
on a computer network called SIPRNet, for Secret Internet
Protocol Router Network, the Defense Department’s largest
command-and-control data network, according to its  website .  The leak undermines the ability of diplomats to gather the
kind of information needed to make valid judgments on foreign
policy, said former Clinton administration Defense Secretary
 William Cohen .  Informed Decisions  “It is imperative that we have candid reporting from those
who are in the field working with their counterparts in order to
inform our decision-making back here in Washington,” Secretary
of State Hillary Clinton told reporters at the State Department
on Nov. 29 after a week of phone calls and meetings to do
damage-control with her counterparts worldwide.  “In addition to endangering particular individuals,
disclosures like these tear at the fabric of the proper function
of responsible government,” Clinton said before leaving on a
trip to Central Asia and the Persian Gulf. Her schedule includes
a conference where she’ll meet with Arab leaders whose countries
were the subject of some of the leaked cables.  Among the steps the Pentagon has taken is equipping the
system to monitor unusual data usage, Gates said. About 60
percent of SIPRNet is monitored by the system now, and the
defense chief said he’s ordered the rest of the work be
accelerated.  ‘Assault on Secrecy’  “The WikiLeaks project seems to be, more than anything
else, an assault on secrecy,”  Steven Aftergood , an analyst at
the Federation of American Scientists in Washington, wrote in
his  blog  on secrecy. “But if there is a legitimate role for
secrecy in military operations, in intelligence gathering or in
diplomatic negotiations -- as seems self-evident -- then a
different approach is called for.”  Mark Stephens, a London attorney for Assange, didn’t
respond to an e-mail seeking comment, and a chat website for
contacting WikiLeaks staff wasn’t working. Stephens regularly
represents several media organizations, including Bloomberg
News.  Former Senator  Bob Kerrey , a Nebraska Democrat and a member
of the 9/11 Commission, said he thinks Clinton and Gates will
protect against over-correcting and restricting information-
sharing too much. The response after the Sept. 11 attacks was
probably “in excess of what was necessary.”  “We made three or four rather simple mistakes, with
devastating consequences,” Kerrey said in a telephone interview
from his office as president of the New School university in New
York. “All the mistakes that were made were easy to correct.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva4@bloomberg.net . 