-- WikiLeaks Founder Lurks Beyond Reach of U.S. Law: Ann Woolner
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 2010-12-01T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/wikileaks-founder-lurks-beyond-grip-of-u-s-law-commentary-by-ann-woolner.html
Attorney General  Eric Holder  wants us
all to know that the Justice Department has begun a dead-serious
probe into WikiLeaks’s release of hundreds of thousands of
internal government documents, many of them classified.  It is an “active, ongoing criminal investigation,” he
told reporters this week as news stories stemming from the
document dump appeared.  President  Barack Obama ’s top spokesman went further.  Robert Gibbs   called  those responsible “criminals, first and
foremost.”  You can say that WikiLeaks founder  Julian Assange  is
reckless and dangerous for making the documents public.  You can say he’s hurt the international conversation among
diplomats and endangered the lives of innocent people who have
helped the U.S. in time of war, people who staked their lives on
promises of anonymity.  But before you call someone a criminal, you have to have a
law that you can say he broke. Holder is going to have a hard
time doing that with Assange.  If the attorney general were confident, he wouldn’t have
answered a reporter’s question about difficulties in prosecuting
Assange this way:  “To the extent there are gaps in the laws, we will move to
close those gaps.”  This is essentially an acknowledgement of a hole in the
law. And even if prosecutors can leap across that, they’d then
face a really big hurdle in the form of the First Amendment.  Out of Reach  Yes, Congress can pass new laws and amend old ones, and
would no doubt be happy to do so if it meant locking up Assange.
But it wouldn’t.  New laws can’t criminalize past conduct. The  Constitution 
clearly bans so-called ex post facto laws so that the government
can’t toss someone in jail for something that was legal at the
time it was done.  Besides, even if current law were sufficient, how would
authorities bring Assange, an Australian native in hiding
outside the U.S., into this country to stand trial?  Presented with this question, Holder told reporters that no
one’s foreign citizenship or residence would prevent them from
being targeted. But that brings us back to this question: on
what charge could he be indicted?  Without that, Assange could live next door to Holder and
wave at him daily without fear of arrest as the nation’s top
prosecutor went off to work.  Espionage Act  No law criminalizes civilian release of classified
information, except in rare circumstance, such as revealing the
name of an undercover agent or disclosing secret codes. Britain
has an Official Secrets Act, but prosecutions are hard to mount,
difficult to win and easy to lambast as politically motivated.  All we’ve got is that World War I-era spy law, the
Espionage Act of 1917. Representative  Peter King , the New York
Republican and next chairman of the House Homeland Security
Committee, sent Holder a  letter  this week urging him to use the
law to charge Assange.  The best shot at making that work would be by proving
Assange encouraged the leak and conspired with his inside source
to disgorge the documents. An Army private first class has been
charged under military law with some of the leaks.  And even if investigators can find a clear conspiracy
between the two, a ruling by a federal judge in another case
shows it isn’t easy to use the spy law to prosecute civilians.  ‘Messy Prosecution’  “The government would still have to prove it was
potentially damaging to national security, that he knew it was
potentially damaging, that he understood that his conduct was
unlawful,” says  Baruch Weiss , a former U.S. prosecutor who
helped defend two lobbyists charged with violating that law.  “This would be a messy prosecution,” says Weiss, a
partner at Arnold & Porter in Washington.  There isn’t much court precedent on the point, but the
lobbyists got a boost from a 2006 ruling that limited the scope
of the broadly written espionage  law . The ruling, by U.S.
District Judge T.S. Ellis III in Alexandria, Virginia, helped
persuade Holder last year to drop the case against the two
lobbyists for the American Israel Public Affairs Committee.  They had been charged in 2005 for getting and passing along
confidential government information in a way they claimed was
perfectly legal and common in Washington.  Any prosecution of Assange would come up against First
Amendment issues. How can you criminalize speech, especially
political speech, especially on matters of grave public
importance? That would seem to fly in the face of the
Constitution’s promise of a free press and free speech.  Help From Allies  The administration’s best chance of getting Assange behind
bars would be to get someone else to do it. The Daily Beast
website  reported  in August that American officials were pitching
the idea to the U.K., Australia and Germany, arguing that their
troops, too, have been harmed by the leaks.  Those are countries without the clear constitutional
guarantees of free speech that the U.S. has. It might work, but
there’s a reason the founders insisted on free speech and a free
press.  Whatever harm the leaks have caused, slipping around the
First Amendment isn’t the way to fix it.  ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  