-- Hyundai Group Given Until Dec. 7 to Give Details on Loan to Buy Builder
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2010-12-01T07:34:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-01/hyundai-group-given-until-dec-7-to-give-details-on-loan-to-buy-builder.html
Hyundai Engineering & Construction
Co. ’s shareholders gave Hyundai Group until Dec. 7 to submit
information about a 1.2 trillion won ($1 billion) loan it
received from Natixis SA to finance a stake in the builder.  The stakeholders may offer five more working days to the
group after receiving the information, should further details
be required,  Korea Exchange Bank , one of the leading
shareholders, said today. The group’s Nov. 16 selection as
preferred bidder for the 35 percent stake prompted Hyundai
Motor Group, which wasn’t selected, to demand fuller
disclosure of the winner’s financing plans.  Shareholders, including Korea Exchange Bank, have said
Hyundai Group may lose its preferred bidder status should it
fail to provide sufficient information on the 1.2 trillion
won ($1 billion) loan from Natixis, the investment-banking
unit of France’s second-biggest lender by branches. The group
offered about 5.5 trillion won for the stake, two people
familiar with the matter said on Nov. 16. The amount is more
than double the market price.  Stake owners, including  Korea Finance Corp. , may start
talks with Hyundai Motor Group after seeking legal advice,
should Hyundai Group be stripped of its bidding status, Kim
Hyo Sang, a director at Korea Exchange Bank, said today at a
briefing in Seoul.  Korea Finance, the biggest shareholder, will ask
financial regulators to verify terms for an 800 billion won
loan Hyundai Group made with  Tong Yang Securities Inc.  for
the acquisition, the state-run agency said today in a
separate e-mailed statement.  Hyundai Merchant Marine Co. , the biggest unit of Hyundai
Group, gained 2.7 percent to close at 42,300 won in Seoul.
 Hyundai Engineering  rose 1.7 percent to 64,300 won, compared
with a 1.3 percent advance for the benchmark Kospi index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kyunghee Park  in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 