-- Ex-Hypo Alpe CEO Kulterer Faces Charges in Austria Over Misuse of Funds
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2010-11-04T13:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-13/ex-hypo-alpe-adria-ceo-kulterer-arrested-austrian-police-cite-flight-risk.html
Hypo Alpe-Adria Bank International
AG’s former Chief Executive Officer Wolfgang Kulterer  was
charged by state prosecutors with misuse of funds in a case that
may not be the last one against the banker.  The charge is linked to a 2 million-euro ($2.8 million)
loan to Styrian Airways AG, a carrier which later went bankrupt,
said Helmut Jamnig, spokesman for the Klagenfurt prosecutors’
office. It’s the result of a wider probe into Kulterer’s tenure
and prosecutors are still pursuing “numerous further
significant allegations”, Jamnig said in a statement. Kulterer
was arrested over the charges on Aug. 13 and remains in custody.  Austria nationalized Hypo Alpe last year to avert the
bank’s collapse after bad debts in the Balkans piled up.
Kulterer had presided over Hypo’s expansion in the former
Yugoslavia, which saw assets grow to more than 30 billion euros
in 2006 when he stepped down as CEO and became a non-executive
chairman. In 2008, Kulterer pleaded guilty to charges of false
accounting at Hypo and was fined 140,000 euros.  Kulterer is also being charged with false testimony to an
enquiry commission in Austria’s Province of Carinthia, Jamnig
said in the statement. Two others are also being charged with
misuse of funds, he said, declining to identify the others.  Kulterer rejects the allegations against him, his lawyer
 Dieter Boehmdorfer  said in a phone interview today.  In his role at the bank, Kulterer had reported to the late
Carinthian Governor  Joerg Haider .  The province owned a majority stake in Hypo Alpe until it
sold shares to  Bayerische Landesbank  in 2007. The investment in
Hypo led to writedowns at BayernLB of about 3.7 billion euros.
Prosecutors in Germany are investigating allegations that former
managers at the banks including Kulterer may have duped the
Bavarian bank into the purchase of its stake. Kulterer has
previously denied wrongdoing concerning the BayernLB
transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Boris Groendahl  in
Vienna   bgroendahl@bloomberg.net 
 Zoe Schneeweiss  at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  