-- Kaine Says Democrats Will Tout `Heavy Lifting' to Fix Economy
-- James Rowley
-- 2010-08-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-13/kaine-says-democrats-will-tout-heavy-lifting-to-fix-economy-bush-broke.html

          
          
             The Democratic National Committee,
facing an “uphill” fight to keep its party in control of
Congress, plans to spend a record $50 million on this year’s
election campaigns, said Chairman  Tim Kaine .  
 With a 9.5 percent unemployment rate and slow job growth,
President  Barack Obama ’s party is “the underdog” in the
November congressional elections, Kaine said. Democrats will
cast themselves as “doing the heavy lifting” to restore
prosperity in contrast to Republicans “standing in the way” of
their efforts, he said.  
 “We’re running into the headwind,” Kaine said in an
interview conducted by  Lizzie O’Leary  for Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend. “We’re
running uphill.”  
 To help the party maintain control of Congress, the DNC
will spend at least $20 million directly on candidates and $30
million to set up party operations nationwide, he said. “It’s
an historic investment for the DNC, significantly more than
we’ve ever done in the midterms,” Kaine said.  
 An NBC-Wall Street Journal  poll  conducted Aug. 5-9 showed
that 52 percent of voters disapproved of Obama’s management of
the economy, compared with 44 percent who approved. With all 435
House seats at stake, Republicans must gain a net 40 seats to
take the leadership. Democrats control a 59-41 majority in the
Senate, and 37 of those seats are at stake.  
 “The American people definitely understand that the
Republicans put America into a lost decade” with a
“combination of tax cuts for the super wealthy and lax
regulations and spending without paying for it on two wars,”
said Kaine, a former Virginia governor.  
 ‘Very Good Week’  
 Democrats had “a very good week,” Kaine said, citing the
Aug. 10 victory in Colorado’s Democratic primary of Senator
 Michael Bennet , who was supported by Obama. Following a divisive
primary, “we see the Democrats pulling together behind the
gubernatorial and Senate candidates” in Colorado, Kaine said.  
 He also said Republican primary victories by Senate
candidates backed by the Tea Party movement in Colorado, Nevada,
and Kentucky will help Democrats’ prospects to retain their hold
on the chamber.  
 The Republican Party’s “merger with the Tea Party” has
produced “deeply flawed and ideological candidates that are
giving us chances to win races that, frankly, six months ago
people thought we were going to lose,” he said.  
 Boost for Reid  
 In Nevada,  Sharron Angle ’s victory in the Republican Senate
primary helped boost the chances of Senate Democratic leader
 Harry Reid , Kaine said.  
 Reid held a 4 percentage-point advantage over Angle among
likely voters in an  Ipsos-Reuters poll  conducted July 30-Aug. 1.
His lead over Angle was within the survey’s 4.6-point error
margin.  
 Democrats will highlight the contrasts between their party
and Republicans, who have opposed economic-stimulus, health-care
overhaul and financial-regulatory legislation, Kaine said.  
 The congressional campaign will give voters “a very clear
choice between a team that has been doing the heavy lifting to
get us going again and a Republican Party that has said over and
over again they are just going to go back and embrace the same
policies” of President  George W. Bush  “that put us in the
tailspin,” Kaine said.  
 The Wall Street Journal-NBC poll found that by a 43-42
percent edge, voters prefer a Congress controlled by Democrats.  
 That shows “folks can differentiate between the party
that’s doing the heavy lifting and the party that’s just saying
‘no’ and standing in the way,” Kaine said.  
 ‘Done Enough’  
 A spokesman for the Republican campaign committee said the
Democratic record will be hard to defend.  
 “If by doing the ‘heavy lifting,’ Democrats mean driving
up the  unemployment rate  to 9.5 percent and spending the country
into unsustainable  debt , then they have done enough already,”
 Ken Spain , a spokesman for the National Republican Congressional
Committee, said in an e-mailed comment. “Republican candidates
are running on getting the government’s fiscal house in order
and enacting policies that will encourage job creators to
reinvest and prosper.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Tim Kaine  
                       
                         
                           Kevin Dietsch/Pool via Bloomberg News 
                         
                         Tim Kaine, leader of the Democratic National Committee. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Tim Kaine, leader of the Democratic National Committee. Photographer: Kevin Dietsch/Pool via Bloomberg News  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 13 (Bloomberg) -- Democratic National Committee Chairman Tim Kaine talks about the political party's strategy for the November congressional elections.
     Kaine speaks with Lizzie O'Leary in an interview to air on Bloomberg Television's "Political Capitl With Al Hunt' this weekend. Bloomberg's Julie Hyman also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
