-- Punk Ziegel says buy Citi on rumor of further capital strength
-- 
-- Fri Mar 7, 2008 8:45am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/03/07/businesspro-citigroup-research-punkziege-idUSBNG17934420080307

 

 (Reuters) - Punk Ziegel recommended investors buy Citigroup 
Inc ( C.N ), a day after the bank announced moves to overhaul its 
U.S. residential mortgage business, and said new rumors in the 
market suggest that the financial giant's capital strength may 
be greater than thought. 

  "There has been a leak/rumor ... that Citigroup's Tier One 
Capital could be at 8.8 percent of assets at the end of the 
first quarter," analyst Richard Bove said.  He added that if these rumors are true, Citigroup will not 
take "mammoth" write-offs in the first quarter and that his 
earnings estimates would also prove to be too low.  Bove also noted that the stock was now selling below 
expected revenue for 2010 and well below stated book value.  "This is simply ridiculous. Fear has replaced logic. Buy 
it," he said. Citigroup's shares have fallen by about 
three-fifths from their 52-week high on May 23.  On Thursday, the bank said it aims to cut its home loan 
exposure by $45 billion, reduce risk and save $200 million a 
year in an overhaul of its U.S. residential mortgage business.  Citigroup, which suffered a $9.83 billion fourth-quarter 
loss tied largely to mortgages, had said it also plans to fold 
its Citi Home Equity and Citi Residential Lending businesses 
into its existing CitiMortgage Inc unit.  The changes come as Chief Executive Vikram Pandit reviews 
operations throughout the bank in an attempt to cut costs and 
boost earnings.  Pandit is putting his new operating program in place and 
more announcements are likely as he reshapes and strengthens 
Citigroup's businesses, Bove said.  "What Mr. Pandit is not doing is breaking up Citigroup into 
a number of large separate businesses. He is committed to 
developing working relationships or cross selling among the 
company's existing operations," Bove added.  Shares of New-York based Citigroup were up 4 cents in 
trading before the bell, after closing at $21.17 Thursday on 
the New York Stock Exchange.  (Reporting by Tenzin Pema in Bangalore; Editing by Bernard 
Orr)