-- Generic Drugs May Get Faster Review Under New Rules
-- Catherine Larkin
-- 2007-10-04T18:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-10-04/generic-drugs-may-get-faster-review-under-new-rules-update2-.html

          
          
             Generic drugs, priced 30 to 80 percent
less than their brand-name counterparts, may get faster reviews
under new policies designed to handle hundreds of backlogged
applications, U.S. regulators said.  
 The  Food and Drug Administration  said today that it is
 bolstering  its generic-drug program by giving priority to
decisions on products that are the first of their kind, and by
giving applicants more feedback. The policies, some already in
place, were designed to shorten the queue of more than 1,300
drugs awaiting approval.  
 Lack of resources has prevented the FDA's  Office of Generic
Drugs  from keeping pace with the growing number of applications
for copies of medicines whose patents expired or were challenged.
Consumer groups and generic-drug makers such as  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  and  Mylan Inc. (MYL)  say Americans need
better access to affordable medicines as health-care costs soar.  
 ``Another initiative in name only simply will not get the
job done,'' said Kathleen Jaeger, president of the  Generic
Pharmaceutical Association , a trade group in Arlington, Virginia.
The agency must address ``the core fundamental issues'' blocking
drugs from the market, such as brand-name companies' use of so-
called citizens' petitions to delay action, she said.  
 The FDA approved or tentatively cleared a record 682 generic
drugs in the fiscal year ended Sept. 30, up more than 30 percent
from the prior year, the agency said today in a statement. The
backlog of applications awaiting final action has increased as
submissions come at a quickening pace, said Gary Buehler,
director of the FDA's Office of Generic Drugs.  
 The agency now takes 16 to 17 months to review an
application.  
 `Working Very Hard'  
 The Office of Generic Drugs ``is working very hard to
address the number of applications that we have,'' Buehler said
today in a conference call. Streamlining operations will help
``sustain this increase in productivity'' within the agency's
budget, he said.  
 The new policies include priority reviews for drugs that are
the first of their type and aren't subject to litigation.
Previously, the agency reviewed applications in the order they
were submitted. The FDA is also shifting to electronic data
submission and communications and plans to give more feedback to
the industry about how applications should be designed.  
 The agency's proposed budget for the current fiscal year
included $5.6 million in additional funds for new staff and more
resources to review applications. The FDA also wants to start
charging generic companies to review applications, with fees
similar to those now paid by brand-name drugmakers. In exchange,
the regulators would guarantee timely decisions.  
 Teva, of  Petah Tikva ,  Israel , is the world's biggest seller
of generic drugs, according to data compiled by IMS Health Inc.
Sandoz, a unit of Basel, Switzerland-based  Novartis AG (NOVN) , ranks
second, and Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based Mylan is third.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Larkin in  Washington  at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Simison at   rsimison@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        