-- Russia Boosts Estimate of Biggest Untapped Gold Field
-- Maria Kolesnikova
-- 2007-10-04T16:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-10-04/russia-boosts-estimate-of-biggest-untapped-gold-field-update1-.html

          
          
             Russia , preparing to sell the rights
to its largest untapped gold field, increased the estimated size
of the Sukhoi Log deposit and said it may generate $30 billion in
revenue for the developer.  
 The eastern Siberian field probably holds 2,956 metric tons
of the precious metal and 1,541 tons of silver, the Natural
Resources Ministry said in an e-mailed statement today. The gold
figure compares with a 2,000-ton estimate as recently as last
month and the 1,000 tons Soviet geologists predicted in 1977.  
 ``It's huge,''  Vladimir Zhukov , a senior analyst with  Lehman
Brothers , said by phone from Moscow. ``The size of the field will
probably influence its lifespan more than attractiveness for the
bids,'' which he estimates at about $400 million to $800 million.  
 The estimate of the size of Sukhoi Log was conducted by the
government and OAO Polyus Gold, Russia's biggest miner of the
metal. Polyus plans to bid for the deposit. Russia will tender
rights to the field, the ministry said in the statement, adding
that it may cost about $1.6 billion to develop the gold deposit.  
 The government may hold a tender late this year or early
2008, Interfax reported in July, citing Nikolai Suslov, deputy
head of the Irkutsk natural-resources agency.  
 Russia's biggest mining company  Norilsk Nickel , its largest
diamond producer ZAO Alrosa, and OAO Polymetal together with a
partner may also bid for Sukhoi Log, Zhukov said. The ministry is
seeking to classify the field as a strategic deposit, which would
limit foreign ownership to less than 50 percent.  
 ``An important question will be whether Sukhoi Log is
classified as a strategic deposit,'' Zhukov said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Cook in Moscow at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net ,  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        