-- UPDATE 5-LSI Logic to buy Agere for $3.5 billion in stock
-- 
-- Mon Dec 4, 2006 2:31pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/04/agere-lsi-idUSN0445589920061204

 

  (Adds analyst comment, updates stock prices) 

  By  Megan Davies NEW YORK  Dec 4 (Reuters) - LSI Logic Corp. LSI.N, a
maker of chips used in DVD recorders and hard drives, has
agreed to buy Agere Systems Inc. AGR.N in an all-stock deal
worth about $3.5 billion, bolstering its position in the data
storage market.  The companies, announcing the deal on Monday. said it
valued Agere, which makes chips for storage, mobile devices and
networking equipment, at $22.81 a share, or about $4 billion,
based on LSI's closing stock price on Friday.  But LSI shares fell 13 percent on news of the deal,
reducing the value of the proposed transaction to $19.85 per
Agere share. Investors worried that LSI was overpaying, and
analysts said the acquisition would dilute LSI earnings next
year.  "While we do believe this acquisition makes good strategic
sense with significant product synergy opportunities, LSI's
purchase price ... is not cheap," Wedbush Morgan analyst Craig
Berger said in a note to clients. "LSI will need to reduce
combined company costs and overhead to make this deal
accretive."  LSI Chief Executive Abhi Talwalkar told Reuters the
acquisition would let LSI "extend its position beyond
enterprise into networking and consumer, and participate in
fast growing storage segments such as notebook ... as well as
desktop" computers.  Analysts said LSI was interested in beefing up its
offerings of chips that control data storage devices and
networks, making it more competitive with rivals such as
Marvell Technology Group Ltd. ( MRVL.O ) and Broadcom Corp.
( BRCM.O ).  "LSI has quite a bit of leverage into the hard drive
market. Agere does as well. They are one of the few companies
that still has significant competition with Marvell," said Cody
Acree, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus.  Other LSI rivals include Texas Instruments Inc. TXN.N and
Europe's STMicroelectronics ( STM.N ), while Agere has also
competed with Analog Devices Inc. ADI.N and Freescale
Semiconductor Inc. ( FSL.N ) in the communications chip market.  The combined company, which would be 52 percent owned by
LSI shareholders and 48 percent by Agere shareholders, would
retain the LSI name and stock symbol on the New York Stock
Exchange.  The deal calls for the exchange of 2.16 shares of LSI for
each Agere share, with LSI issuing 379 million shares. LSI also
said it plans a $500 million stock repurchase program.  "The underlying value is just slightly in favor of LSI, so
it's a merger of almost-equals," said Doug Freedman, an analyst
with American Technology Research.  Agere shares were up 9.7 percent at $19.51 in afternoon
trade after rising as high as $20.40 earlier, their best level
since July 2004.  COST SAVINGS EXPECTED  The companies said the combination would save at least $125
million in costs in 2008 as they grew more efficient in
manufacturing and managing operating expenses.  The deal is expected to reduce LSI's earnings per share
slightly in 2007 and add to them "meaningfully" in 2008.  The companies said they had combined revenue of $3.5
billion for the 12 months ended Sept. 30. The combined work
force numbers about 9,100, though Talwalkar said some employees
may "overlap." He did not elaborate.  The deal, which is subject to approval by regulators and by
shareholders of both companies, is expected to close in the
first quarter of 2007.  Morgan Stanley advised LSI, which is based in Milpitas,
California, while Goldman Sachs advised Agere. Legal advisers
were Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, to LSI, and Skadden,
Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, to Agere.
 (Additional reporting by  Franklin Paul  in New York and Scott
Hillis in San Francisco)






