-- Cerberus in talks to buy Delphi plants: source
-- By  David Bailey  and  Elena Moya
-- Mon Dec 4, 2006 12:23pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/04/businesspro-delphi-cerberus-dc-idUSL0441365120061204

 

 CHICAGO/LONDON  (Reuters) - Private equity firm Cerberus 
Capital Management LP is talking with Delphi Corp. DPHIQ.PK 
and its largest union about buying some of the bankrupt 
auto-parts maker's U.S. and European plants, a source close to 
the talks said. 

  "We've been working on it for some time. We're serious 
about it," the source said.  Delphi, which filed for bankruptcy in October 2005, has 
outlined plans to eliminate four-fifths of its U.S. hourly work 
force, 21 of 29 U.S. plants, several plants overseas, thousands 
of salaried workers worldwide and numerous business lines.  Delphi spokesman Lindsey Williams declined to comment on 
the Cerberus report.  "We've had conversations with a number of potential plant 
investors and all those conversations have been confidential in 
nature," Williams said.  Cerberus declined to comment. Representatives of the United 
Auto Workers union were not immediately available for comment.  Delphi has been in talks for months with former parent 
General Motors Corp. ( GM.N ), its unions, creditors and 
potential investors as it works on several fronts to develop a 
reorganization plan. It hopes to exit bankruptcy by mid 2007.  Delphi plans to focus on profitable businesses, including 
electronics, communications, vehicle safety and climate 
controls. It intends to shed brake and chassis systems, 
interiors, steering and other business lines by the end of 
2007.  The company has begun to market numerous assets it plans to 
divest, and named Rothschild Inc. the primary financial adviser 
and investment banker for the potential sale of its steering 
and interiors divisions.  The parts maker also has signed confidentiality agreements 
with several potential investors, including a group led by 
Appaloosa Management LP and Harbinger Capital Partners.  (Additional reporting by  Megan Davies  and Michael Flaherty 
in New York, and  Jui Chakravorty  in Detroit)