-- UPDATE 2-Medtronic to spin off external defibrillator unit
-- 
-- Mon Dec 4, 2006 4:51pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/04/medtronic-spinoff-idUSN0418194220061204

 

  (Adds detail from CEO interview, analyst comments, background,
byline, updates stock activity) 

  By Susan Kelly CHICAGO  Dec 4 (Reuters) - Medical device maker Medtronic
Inc. ( MDT.N ) on Monday said it will spin off its external
defibrillator business to focus on higher-growth treatments for
chronic ailments such as heart disease and diabetes.  The Emergency Response Systems business will be spun off
into an independent, publicly traded company, to be called
Physio-Control Inc., with estimated annual sales of $450
million, Medtronic said.  The business sells automated external defibrillators, or
AEDs, and the manual defibrillators used by hospitals and
emergency response workers to shock the heart back to normal
rhythm.  "External defibrillators aren't growing. It's not a
quick-growth market," said Morningstar analyst Debbie Wang.  Medtronic Chairman and Chief Executive Art Collins said the
spin-off would allow the company to reallocate resources into
areas with greater growth potential, such as implantable
defibrillators and neurology, spinal and diabetes products.  Revenue from the external defibrillator business was
projected to grow 8 percent to 12 percent on a compound annual
basis over the next five years, based on current funding
levels, Collins said.  By comparison, Medtronic is projecting annual sales growth,
 for the company as a whole, of 8 percent to 12 percent in
fiscal 2007 and 11 percent to 14 percent in fiscal 2008. Its
internal target for compound annual revenue growth over five
years is just over 14 percent, Collins said.  "As we stacked it up against the other opportunities we
have ... we thought there were areas that were more consistent
with our strategy and higher-growth opportunities," Collins
told Reuters.  The decision to spin off the external defibrillator unit
was made as part of a continuing review of the company's
portfolio; Medtronic has no broader target to prune additional
business lines, Collins said.  Medtronic, the world's largest maker of implantable
cardioverter defibrillators, has struggled this year with a
slowdown in demand for those devices following rival Guidant
Corp.'s series of product recalls. It cut its fiscal 2007 and
2008 earnings and revenue forecasts in August.  But last month Medtronic said its ICD business accelerated
as it took market share from competitors, contributing to a
higher-than-expected fiscal second-quarter profit.  The external defibrillator spin-off, expected to be
completed in the first half of Medtronic's fiscal year 2008,
which begins May 1, will occur as a tax-free distribution to
Medtronic shareholders of all Physio-Control shares. Medtronic
expects to list the shares on the New York Stock Exchange.  Medtronic said the expected stock distribution ratio will
be determined at a later date.  Brian Webster, president and general manager of Medtronic
Emergency Response Systems, will become chief executive of the
new company, whose headquarters will be in Redmond,
Washington.  Shares of Medtronic closed up $1.19, or 2.28 percent, at
$53.35 on the New York Stock Exchange. The stock is down about
7.3 percent since the start of the year, compared with a rise
of about 1.8 percent in the Standard and Poor's health care
equipment index .GSPMED.



