-- UPDATE 4-Gold Kist accepts Pilgrim's Pride buyout bid
-- 
-- Mon Dec 4, 2006 4:46pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/04/pilgrimspride-goldkist-idUSN0445727920061204

 

  (Rewrites first sentence, adds background throughout, updates
share prices) 

  By  Bob Burgdorfer CHICAGO  Dec 4 (Reuters) - U.S. chicken producer Gold Kist
Inc. GKIS.O agreed to be bought by larger rival Pilgrim's
Pride Inc. PPC.N in a sweetened $1.1 billion deal that ended
a four-month takeover battle, the companies said on Monday.  The deal, which will pay Gold Kist shareholders $21 a
share, will likely make Pilgrim's Pride the largest U.S.
chicken company by pounds of poultry produced, eclipsing Tyson
Foods Inc. ( TSN.N ), according to an industry trade group.  Gold Kist shares rose more than 4 percent, and Pilgrim's
shares were up almost 10 percent after news of the deal, which
could be completed by the end of this year.  The deal exceeds the $1 billion, or $20 a share, Pilgrim
offered in August when it launched its takeover bid for Gold
Kist.  Gold Kist directors opposed the earlier offer claiming it
did not reflect the value of the company and urged shareholders
to reject it.     Analysts liked the deal because consolidating business
can improve efficiencies and lower costs.  "To the extent this transaction obviously helps
consolidation in a challenging industry, it is a good
development," Eric Katzman, a Deutsche Bank food analyst, said
in a research report. Katzman upgraded Pilgrim's Pride to a
"buy" rating from "hold."  The buyout comes at time when meat companies are being hurt
by an excess of meat and rising prices for feed, particularly
corn. Those conditions may have prodded Gold Kist's directors
to end their resistance to a takeover by Pilgrim's Pride, one
industry economist said.  "With corn prices going up, the $21 looked a lot better now
than it would have looked a couple of months ago," said Paul
Ah, an economist with the consulting firm Poultry Perspective.  Gold Kist in November reported sharply lower fiscal fourth
quarter profits and said results for the year were hurt by an
excess of meat and lower meat prices.  Pilgrim's Pride said last month that it was operating at a
loss at that time due to high feed prices.  Pilgrim's Pride officials estimate the company will be
producing about 25 percent of U.S. chicken after the merger,
compared with Tyson's 23.5 percent.  Gold Kist's board members approved the higher bid after
Pilgrim's Pride said last week that 67 percent of Gold Kist's
shares had been tendered under the initial $20 per share offer,
Richard Cogdill, Pilgrim's Pride's chief financial officer,
told Reuters in a telephone interview.  "I think that was the catalyst in bringing the sides
together to talk," said Cogdill.  The tender offer for Gold Kist shares will close on Dec.
27.  Pilgrim's Pride will also assume $144 million of Gold
Kist's debt.  The combination of Pilgrim's Pride and Gold Kist already
has been approved by U.S. regulators.  Corn prices have been trading at 10-year highs, largely
because of increasing demand by the ethanol industry, which
turns corn into an alternative, clean-burning fuel. In reaction
to the higher price of corn, an important livestock feed,
poultry companies have reduced production.  Pilgrim's Pride shares closed up nearly 10 percent at
$27.90 on the New York Stock Exchange, while Gold Kist shares
finished up 4.5 percent at $20.87 per share in Nasdaq trading.



