-- CORRECTED - UPDATE 3-Qualcomm buys two wireless technology businesses
-- 
-- Mon Dec 4, 2006 11:25am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/04/rfmd-qualcomm-idUSN0446660720061204

 

  (Corrects paragraph 8 to show that RF Micro Devices is based
in North Carolina, not San Diego. The Bluetooth assets that
Qualcomm is buying are based in San Diego)
 (Adds analyst comment, share prices) 

  By  Megan Davies NEW YORK  Dec 4 (Reuters) - Wireless technology firm
Qualcomm Inc. ( QCOM.O ) said on Monday it will buy two
micro-chip businesses to boost its expertise in Bluetooth and
Wi-Fi wireless technology for mobile Internet access.  Qualcomm said it is buying the majority of RF Micro Devices
Inc.'s ( RFMD.O ) Bluetooth assets for $39 million and paying an
undisclosed amount of cash to buy startup Airgo Networks Inc.,
which provides wireless local area network technology.  The acquisitions, expected to close by the end of December,
will reduce earnings per share in the fiscal year ending
September 2007 by about 4 cents, and add to earnings in the
full year 2008, Qualcomm said.  Oppenheimer analyst Lawrence Harris said both deals would
help Qualcomm develop multi-functional chips.  "In the case of the Bluetooth deal, incorporating many
functions of the phone on a single chip could help bring costs
of entry level phones lower," he said. Harris has a neutral
rating on Qualcomm shares.  The RF Micro deal gives Qualcomm next-generation Bluetooth
technology, a short-range wireless link for transferring data
between mobile phones, computers and their accessories.  RF Micro said as a result of the deal, it expects a
significant reduction in Bluetooth-related expenses and it
aimed to become a broader development partner with Qualcomm.
The two companies have been working together since 1994.  On closing, Greensboro, North Carolina-based RF Micro
expects the deal will be accretive by about 4 to 6 cents a
share over the next 12 months, excluding transaction-related
expenses. Qualcomm said the Bluetooth assets it was buying are
based in San Diego.  Jerry Neal, RF's executive vice president of marketing and
strategic development, told Reuters the deal would open up new
markets for RF.  Palo Alto, California-based Airgo, which makes chipsets and
software for wireless networking, was founded in January 2001
and had investment from venture firms including OVP Venture
Partners, Oak Investment Partners and BlueRun Ventures,
according to the company's Web site.  Oppenheimer's Harris said the Airgo deal could help bolster
Qualcomm's expertise in Wi-Fi, a technology that is built into
most laptops and an increasing number of cell phones.  Qualcomm shares have lost about 20 percent in the past 52
weeks, partly on uncertainty created by legal disputes with
Nokia and other companies.  Shares in Qualcomm rose 0.91 percent to $36.68 in early
trading. RF Micro shares rose 3.68 percent to $7.88.
 (Additional reporting by  Ritsuko Ando )


