-- Taiwan's KMT Wins Most Seats in Vote, Showing Support for Pro-China Stance
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   J a n e t   O n g
-- 2010-11-27T13:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-27/taiwan-s-kmt-wins-most-seats-in-vote-showing-support-for-pro-china-stance.html
Taiwan’s ruling party Kuomintang won
three of five seats in mayoral elections, signifying support for
President  Ma Ying-jeou ’s pro-China policies.  The KMT took the seats in Taipei, Sinbei and Taichung,
while the opposition Democratic Progress Party won the elections
at Tainan and Kaohsiung, the candidates said in announcements
broadcast on television. The vote came after  Sean Lien , son of
 Taiwan ’s former Vice President  Lien Chan , was shot and
wounded while campaigning for KMT yesterday.  “The win by the KMT means they will continue the pro-China
policies to gain more votes in future elections,”  Monika Yang ,
who helps oversee $2 billion at Hamon Asset Management Ltd. in
Taipei, said by phone today. Economic and trade relations
between the two sides will be “even closer,” said  Chang Ling- chen , a professor at National Taiwan University.  Ma, who helped cement ties with China by abandoning his
predecessor’s pro-independence stance after he took office two
years ago, signed a trade agreement with the mainland and opened
up the island for new investments.  Taiwanese-run factories in the mainland make 11 percent of
China’s  electronics exports  including iPhones and Playstations,
according to the  Taiwan Institute of Economic Research . About 29
percent of the island’s overseas shipments head across the
strait,  government data  show.  No More Uncertainty  The  benchmark Taiex index  gained 78 percent last year as
improving relations with China boosted capital inflows. Taiwan
stocks slid 0.5 percent at yesterday’s close and have advanced
1.5 percent this year.  “This uncertainty with the election is gone, so volume
will increase in Monday’s trade and shares will probably rise at
the start of the trade,” Yang said.  The Taiwan dollar has gained 3.9 percent this year to
NT$30.830, according to Taipei Forex Inc.  Taiwan’s seasonally jobless rate fell to a two-year low of
4.96 percent in October, higher than the 3 percent target Ma
pledged to achieve during his 2008 presidential campaign.
Taiwan’s economy expanded faster than estimated in the third
quarter, as improved ties with China helped boost trade and
attract tourists, a government report showed this month.  Gross domestic product  rose 9.8 percent in the three months
through September from a year earlier, after climbing a revised
12.86 percent in the second quarter, the statistics bureau said
in Taipei on Nov. 18.  China regards Taiwan as part of its territory and has
threatened to invade if the island declares formal independence.
The two sides have been ruled separately since  Chiang Kai- shek ’s Kuomintang, or Nationalists, fled to the island
after being defeated by Mao Zedong’s Communists in 1949.  Ma had said the trade accord with China won’t harm the
island’s “sovereignty.” He said a reduction in cross-strait
tensions will encourage the mainland “in the long run” to
remove the more than 1,000 missiles it has aimed at Taiwan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Taipei at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Janet Ong in Taipei at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  