-- Taiwan May Accelerate Steps to Improve China Ties After KMT's Election Win
-- B y   J a n e t   O n g   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2010-11-29T10:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-27/taiwan-s-relations-with-china-may-improve-after-ruling-kmt-s-election-win.html
Taiwan  may speed up steps to improve
relations with China after the ruling  Kuomintang  party did well
in key local elections, an indication voters support President
 Ma Ying-jeou ’s cooperation with the mainland.  The KMT won mayoral ballots in three of five cities on Nov.
27 with the opposition Democratic Progressive Party taking the
remainder, according to the  Central Election Commission . The
five municipalities are home to about 60 percent of Taiwan’s 23
million people. The DPP won more votes overall.  “If the KMT interprets the election result as a mandate by
the people on its policies, it would actually quicken the pace
to improve ties with China,” said  Liu Bih-rong , a professor of
political science at Soochow University in Taipei. “One of
their strategies may be to focus on the pro-KMT voters and
retain them, since they may not be successful in getting the DPP
share of votes.”  The benchmark  Taiex Index  rose 0.7 percent at the close of
Taipei trading. The Taiwan dollar climbed 0.1 percent to
NT$30.800 per U.S. dollar, according to Taipei Forex Inc.  Ma has faced resistance from the  DPP , which is concerned he
may put Taiwan’s sovereignty at stake as he pushes for closer
 economic  ties with the mainland.  The KMT retained the mayorship of Taipei, its traditional
stronghold, and the economic and political center of Taiwan, as
well as Xinbei and Taichung cities. Ma and his predecessors,
 Chen Shui-bian  and  Lee Teng-hui , were former Taipei mayors.  Voters went to the poll Nov. 27, a day after the son of
Taiwan’s former Vice President  Lien Chan  was shot and wounded
during a KMT campaign rally.  Trade Accord  Lien in March 2004 lost the presidential race to Chen, who
was shot on the eve of the election, which triggered street
protests on allegations he may have staged the shooting to win
sympathy votes. Lien, then chairman of the KMT, lost to Chen by
30,000 votes out of about 13 million cast.  Ma is betting that strengthening commercial ties with  China ,
the world’s fastest-growing economy and the island’s biggest
trading partner and investment destination, will help bolster
Taiwan’s economy.  Taiwan on June 29 signed an Economic Cooperation Framework
Agreement, its first trade accord with China to cut tariffs and
increase access to services including banking, securities and
insurance. Signing the deal opened the door for Taiwan to ink
similar accords with other countries.  Singapore  and Taiwan
agreed on Aug. 5 to discuss a free-trade agreement.  Policies to Stay  “Ma’s cross-strait policies will remain intact,” said
 Tony Phoo , a Taipei-based economist for  Standard Chartered Plc .
Still, “even though the KMT has won three seats, they have
fallen behind in the amount of votes. It’s a warning for the
ruling government, they have to drive harder in building on the
economic front and regain confidence among swing voters.”  The KMT won 45 percent of total votes in the elections,
trailing the DPP’s 50 percent tally, according to the commission.  “The KMT will take the lagging number of votes as a
precaution and strive harder in future,” KMT Secretary-General
King Pu-tsung said on the party’s website. He attributed the
lower vote total to the Kaohsiung city election result, where a
third candidate competed for KMT support. In Kaohsiung, the DPP
won 52.8 percent of the votes and the KMT 20.5 percent, with
independent Yang Chiu-hsing claiming almost 27 percent.  Cordial Ties  Relations between Taiwan and China, separated by the Taiwan
Strait, are at the most cordial in more than 60 years after Ma
dropped his predecessor’s pro-independence stance and made
 economic  relations the priority of his administration.  Tsai Ing-wen , chairwoman of the DPP, opposes the China
trade agreement on the grounds it would give Beijing greater
influence over the island and costs jobs. Tsai lost the race for
mayor of Xinbei city to  Eric Chu , a former vice premier in Ma’s
administration. Tsai in June rallied more than 10,000 to protest
the accord.  The trade accord will help create more than 260,000 jobs in
Taiwan and boost economic growth by 1.65 to 1.72 percentage
points annually, Ma’s administration says.  “To boost domestic employment and salaries so as to narrow
the wealth gap, President Ma may have to forge even closer
economic and trade ties with Beijing,” said  Chang Wu-ueh , a
political science professor at Taipei’s Tamkang University.  China and Taiwan are set to hold a sixth round of cross-
straits talks in Taiwan next month. Since Ma took office in 2008,
the government has signed 14 agreements with the mainland. China
regards Taiwan as part of its territory.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Janet Ong  in Taipei at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Taipei at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net 
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  