-- Heretics Fry, Alagna Shines in ‘Don Carlo’: Manuela Hoelterhoff
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2010-11-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-27/alagna-triumphs-heretics-fry-in-met-s-hot-premiere-manuela-hoelterhoff.html
Head over to the Metropolitan Opera
with a sack of cash to buy your way into the new production of
 Verdi ’s “Don Carlo” with the sensational  Roberto Alagna  in the
title role.  This very grand opera, skillfully adapted from Schiller’s
eloquent play, is in repertoire at Lincoln Center through Dec.
18, with performances this Monday and Friday.  Looking fabulous in puffy 16th-century shorts, doublet and
boots, the tenor sings his heart out as the doomed prince who
loses bride Elisabeth to his awful father, King Philip II of
Spain.  As you may remember, Philip grumps around the Escorial
palace looking for heretics under his bed. Every day is a good
day for an auto-da-fe, as far as Philip is concerned. The
opera’s anguished mortals spend almost five hours tormented by
church and state.  All the while, they sing music so glorious not one minute
seems superfluous. A high point is a huge ensemble scene that
culminates with Philip presiding over a heretic bonfire as Carlo
and Elisabeth look on in horror.  It made a big effect at the Nov. 22 opening, though this
generally engrossing production by director  Nicholas Hytner  and
designer Bob Crowley is hardly a budget buster. Shared by  Oslo ’s
opera and London’s  Covent Garden , the show features expensively
handsome period costumes, but also a lot of walls and a raked
stage with no elevations.  Big Barbecue  Couldn’t some rich opera patron have bought them a
staircase or two? Or a few more trees for the twee-looking
forest of Fontainebleau?  Fortunately, the wonderfully moody lighting by Mark
Henderson often gives empty space a poetic dimension, especially
in scenes set in the cloister of St. Just where Carlo sings his
last goodbye to Elisabeth and the world.  By which time, Alagna still sounded fresh as he embraced
Marina Poplavskaya, nearly his equal in stamina and elegant
appearance, though the voice could use more personality.  As Carlo’s other great love, the worldly Marquis de Posa,
 Simon Keenlyside  was riveting in the intensity of his delivery
and endearingly awkward bows. Ferruccio Furlanetto made Philip’s
monologue flow with sorrowful beauty.  His bristling meeting with the Grand Inquisitor brought on
the impressive Eric Halfvarson -- a palsied mass of hate. The
bright-voiced Anna Smirnova made an auspicious Met debut, though
Princess Eboli requires a more Italianate sound and also a
prettier dress.  In the pit,  Yannick Nezet-Seguin  brought urgency and
passion to Verdi’s greatest score.  The Met is at Lincoln Center, Broadway at 66th St.
Information: +1-212-362-2000;  http://www.metopera.org/   ( Manuela Hoelterhoff  is executive editor of Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 Mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 