-- Berbatov Scores Five Goals As Manchester United Moves Atop Premier League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-11-27T17:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-27/manchester-united-takes-premier-league-lead-as-berbatove-scores-5-goals.html
Dimitar Berbatov  scored five goals
as Manchester United routed Blackburn 7-1 to take over first
place in English soccer’s Premier League. Arsenal moved up to
second with a 4-2 win at Aston Villa.  Ji-Sung Park  and Nani also scored as United remained the
league’s lone unbeaten team, on 31 points, two more than Arsenal
and three ahead of Chelsea, which plays Newcastle tomorrow.  West Ham beat Wigan 3-1 but couldn’t move out of last place
as Wolverhampton rallied to beat Sunderland 3-2. West Bromwich
won 4-1 at Everton, Bolton rallied to tie 2-2 with Blackpool,
Fulham and Birmingham drew 1-1 and Stoke scored late to tie
Manchester City 1-1.  Berbatov is the fourth Premier League player to score five
goals in a game and the first since Tottenham’s  Jermain Defoe 
last season. He needed just two minutes to open the scoring at
Old Trafford with a goal from close range. Park doubled the lead
in the 26th minute and Berbatov made it 3-0 four minutes later.  Berbatov notched his third in the opening minute of the
second half and Nani scored a minute later. Berbatov added two
more goals to push his season total to a league-leading 11
before  Christopher Samba  scored for Blackburn.  Arsenal dominated the first half at Villa Park but didn’t
take the lead until the  Andrey Arshavin ’s goal in the 39th
minute.  Samir Nasri  then doubled the Gunners’ lead just before
halftime.  Arsenal, which squandered a 2-0 halftime lead in losing to
Tottenham last week, saw its advantage cut six minutes into the
second half on Ciaran Clark’s goal, but Marouane Chamakh
answered four minutes later.  Winless Run  Clark scored once again in the 71st minute before  Jack Wilshere  secured the three points for Arsenal with his first
Premier League goal in stoppage time.  Valon Behrami, Victor Obinna and  Scott Parker  scored as
West Ham ended an eight-match winless run in the league. The win
looked to lift the Hammers off the bottom of the table until
 Stephen Hunt  and Sylvan Ebanks-Blake scored in the final 10
minutes to give Wolves a come-from-behind win over Sunderland.
West Ham and Wolves both have 12 points, with Wigan the other
team in the relegation places with 14.  West Brom scored twice in each half to beat Everton and end
a five-match winless run. Both teams finished with 10 men as
Everton’s  Mikel Arteta  and West Brom’s Youssuf Mulumbu were each
sent off in the second half.  Martin Petrov  and Mark Davies scored in the final 15
minutes as Bolton tied Blackpool at home to remain in fifth
place.  Clint Dempsey ’s scored early in the second half as Fulham
tied Birmingham while  Matthew Etherington ’s injury-time goal
earned Stoke the home draw with Manchester City.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  