-- Marks & Spencer’s India Venture Plans 50 New Stores in 5 Years
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2010-11-27T13:44:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-27/marks-spencer-reliance-plans-to-open-50-indian-stores-in-next-five-years.html
Marks & Spencer Reliance India Pvt.,
the joint venture between  Marks & Spencer Group Plc  and
 Reliance Industries Ltd. , plans to open a further 50 stores in
India as rising salaries and growing consumer demand make it a
priority market for the U.K. retailer.  “The last year’s been very successful for us and we’re
very pleased with how things are going,” Martin Jones, chief
executive officer of the local unit, said in an interview in New
Delhi today. “We’ve got quite a lot of investment in the
country, not just in terms of stores, but we’re now sourcing a
lot of our products from India as well.” He declined to specify
the company’s investment in India.  The company will increase its sourcing from South Asia to
70 percent over the next three years from the current 42
percent. The five-year expansion will bring the total number of
stores to 70, Jones said.  The market for apparel in India is expected to grow to $25
billion this year on increased disposable income and the rise of
organized retail, according to a June  report  by McKinsey &
Company.  The Indian market will be the first priority for Marks &
Spencer Plc, Chief Executive Officer  Mark Bolland  said Nov. 9.
Overseas sales are forecast to increase to between 800 million
pounds ($1.25 billion) and 1 billion pounds. The company, which
has more than 320 owned and franchised stores in 41 countries,
opened its 20th store in India today.  Marks & Spencer Reliance India Pvt. is part owned by
Reliance Industries, India’s most valuable company. The joint
venture was established in April 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net ;
 Siddharth Philip  in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  