-- Asian Currencies Have Weekly Drop on North Korea Attack, Europe Debt Woes
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 2010-11-27T00:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-27/asian-currencies-have-weekly-drop-on-north-korea-attack-europe-debt-woes.html
Asian currencies had their biggest
weekly loss in six months as an exchange of artillery fire on
the Korean peninsula deterred investment in the region and
Europe’s debt crisis bolstered demand for dollars.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index slid for a third
week, its longest losing streak since February, after North
Korea shelled a South Korean island on Nov. 23, prompting
retaliatory fire. The euro sank to a two-month low yesterday as
Ireland negotiated a European Union-led bailout and the
Financial Times Deutschland reported that policy makers in the
region are pushing Portugal to seek financial aid.  “Asian currencies have suffered from the contagion effect
from Europe,” said  Dariusz Kowalczyk , senior economist at
Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. “We also had an escalation of
tensions from North and South Korea.”  The won fell 2.2 percent this week to 1,159.63 per dollar
in Seoul, its biggest loss in five months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Singapore’s dollar dropped 1.9 percent to
S$1.3208, the steepest slide since February 2009, and Malaysia’s
ringgit retreated 1.5 percent to 3.1630. The Asia Dollar Index,
which tracks the region’s 10 most-used currencies excluding the
yen, declined 1.1 percent to its lowest level in two months.  The won yesterday slumped 1.9 percent after North Korea,
via its KCNA state news agency, said “escalated confrontation
would lead to a war.” The USS George Washington aircraft carrier
will tomorrow begin exercises off the Korean peninsula with
naval vessels from the South in a show of force that the North
warned will take the countries “closer to the brink of war.”  War Risk  “This is really a big risk for the whole region, leading
to a massive sell-off of the won,” said  Minoru Shioiri , chief
manager of currency trading in Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley Securities Co. “People don’t want to hold the won and
other regional currencies over the weekend when we don’t know
what will happen.”  The ringgit had its biggest weekly slide in six months as a
central bank report showed the economy slowed more than
economists forecast in the third quarter. Gross domestic product
rose 5.3 percent from a year earlier, less than the 8.9 percent
gain in the previous three months and the median 5.9 percent
increase forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  “We have both economic and geopolitical events that have
taken a toll on investor appetite for risk,” said  Wan Murezani Mohamad , an analyst at Malaysian Rating Corp. in Kuala Lumpur.  GDP Data  The Philippine peso fell 0.9 percent to 44.195 per dollar,
a third weekly decline, as a Nov. 25 report showed GDP
unexpectedly dropped 0.5 percent in the third quarter from the
previous three months. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast
0.9 percent growth for the period.  China’s yuan declined 0.42 percent this week to 6.6675 per
dollar, its biggest loss since December 2008.  “There’s heightened risk aversion after the Korea situation
and the European debt crisis,” said  Claudio Piron , head of
emerging Asia foreign exchange and fixed-income strategy at Bank
of America’s Merrill Lynch unit in Singapore. “If you look
across the region, all Asian currencies have weakened against
the dollar.”  Taiwan’s dollar fell 0.5 percent this week to NT$30.83,
while Indonesia’s rupiah retreated 0.8 percent to 9,013.
Thailand’s baht fell 0.8 percent to 30.20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 