-- Asian Stocks Decline for Third Week as Tensions Rise on Korean Peninsula
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-11-27T00:37:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-27/asian-stocks-decline-for-third-week-as-tensions-rise-on-korean-peninsula.html
Asian  stocks  fell for a third
consecutive week after North Korea fired artillery shells into
South Korea, swelling concern that tensions will escalate.  Korean Air Lines Co. , the nation’s biggest line by market
value, declined 5.4 percent in Seoul. Hyundai Motor Co., South
Korea’s largest carmaker by market capitalization, dropped 6.9
percent. Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd., the world’s biggest
developer by market value, slid 6.1 percent in Hong Kong after
the government unveiled new measures to prevent a bubble in
real-estate prices. Honda Motor Co., Japan’s second-largest
carmaker by sales, sank 1.9 percent.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  declined 2.1 percent to 128.92
this week. The gauge slid on Nov. 23 after government and media
reports that North Korea fired dozens of artillery rounds into
South Korean territory, its first such attack in half a century.  “Markets are factoring in the likelihood of some sort of
additional action by the North Koreans,” said  Tim Schroeders ,
who helps manage about $1 billion at Pengana Capital Ltd. in
Melbourne. “What was initially dismissed as a one-off skirmish
is now making people a little bit nervous.”  South Korea’s  Kospi index  slid 2 percent this week, its
biggest weekly decline since August. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index
sank 3.1 percent, the biggest drop among major equity indexes in
the Asia-Pacific region.  The  Shanghai Composite Index  retreated 0.6 percent in China,
where the central bank increased the reserve ratio for the
second time in two weeks to cool inflation. Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index slipped 0.7 percent.  In Japan, where markets were closed Nov. 23 for a holiday,
the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  climbed 0.2 percent while the
broader Topix index lost 0.3 percent.  Korean Tensions  Tensions with North Korea have risen since the sinking of
the South Korean warship Cheonan in March, which killed 46
sailors. The Nov. 23 shelling of Yeonpyeong island, which killed
four people and wounded 20, was the first of its kind since the
1950-1953 Korean War and spurred President  Barack Obama  to send
a U.S. aircraft carrier to the Yellow Sea as a show of support
and strength.  North Korea warned that any “escalated confrontation”
will lead to war, state news agency KCNA said yesterday.  “A bubbling over of tensions in Korea is another layer of
uncertainty for markets that they don’t need to contend with,”
said Pengana’s Schroeders. “There’s enough going on in terms of
European debt problems and Chinese inflation without having to
deal with erupting geopolitical tensions. It’s probably just
another trigger point for people to sell.”  Hong Kong Property  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  is little changed this month.
It has risen about 7.4 percent this year on speculation earnings
growth will outweigh China’s measures to tackle the fastest
inflation in two years, and Europe’s fiscal deficit crisis.
Stocks on the gauge are valued at 14 times  estimated earnings  on
average, compared with 23 times at the start of the year.  A group of finance-related shares, including real-estate
companies,  dropped  the most this week among the 10 industry
groups in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index, and Hong Kong developers
led declines among the Hang Seng Index’s four industry groups.  Financial Secretary  John Tsang  on Nov. 19 raised the stamp
duty and increased deposits, the toughest measures yet to rein
in gains in home values, which have soared 50 percent since
January 2009. Hong Kong Monetary Authority Chief Executive
 Norman Chan  said down payments for some homes will be increased,
the second boost in requirements this year.  “Government measures to cool property prices are showing
some effect, and developers are headed for a long decline,”
said  Francis Lun , general manager at Fulbright Securities Ltd.
in Hong Kong.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 