-- Krug Pops, Art Records Fall as Chinese Lift $76 Million Auction
-- B y   A d a m   M a j e n d i e
-- 2010-11-28T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-27/chinese-artist-sanyu-breaks-record-with-6-7-million-pot-of-chrysanthemums.html
“I’m only really drinking this for
promotional purposes you understand,” said  David Elswood ,
 Christie’s International’s  global head of wine, as he sipped a 
glass of Krug before accepting bids for a package of 144 bottles
from the Champagne maker.  Krug  representatives poured magnums of the company’s Grande
Cuvee and served dim sum and Danish pastries to bidders
scattered around 10 tables at the start of a weekend that also
offered contemporary art in Hong Kong. Chinese-led bidding
pushed the total for the three days to HK592.7 million ($76.3
million) as 15 artist records were set.  The  Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre  sale is part
of a weeklong event covering wine, contemporary art, traditional
Chinese paintings, watches, jewelry and antiques. Together with
 Sotheby’s  autumn sale in October, they indicate the strength of
demand for luxury items in Asia.  On Saturday morning, two phone bidders pushed the price of
the Krug cases to HK$1.2 million including a first-class trip
for two to Krug’s famous cellars in France.  London-based Christie’s sold HK$80.3 million of wine over
two days, with a collection of 43 bottles of Chateau Mouton-
Rothschild also reaching HK$1.2 million. By bottle, the highest
price was a half case of 1978 Echezeaux Burgundy for the
equivalent of HK$124,000 a bottle. A case of 1990 La Tache from
nearby Domaine de la Romanee-Conti fetched HK$78,000 a bottle.  Star Items  With the  Champagne  and tables cleared away, Christies began
its three-day offering of contemporary and 20th century Asian
art, with most of the star items at the Nov. 27 evening sale.  Around packed rows of white seats, ushers gave up trying to
keep aisles clear of standing observers that spilled six deep
outside the entrances, while 48  Christie’s  staff aided telephone
bidders. Two of those phone bidders outlasted the sea of dark
suits and black dresses in the room to lift Sanyu’s “Potted
Chrysanthemum in a Blue and White Jardiniere” to an artist
record HK$53.3 million.  The Chinese-born artist, who was reputedly more interested
in Parisian nightlife than selling his works during his life,
was the high point of the 44-lot evening. By contrast, the other
lot with a HK$35 million presale estimate,  Cai Guo Qiang ’s 32-
meter wide “Search for Extraterrestrials” in Chinese ink,
smoke and gunpowder on paper, failed to sell after hammering
down at HK$30 million, below the reserve price.  Estimates Beaten  The two lots set the tone for the day sale yesterday, with
works by artists such as Liu Dahong soaring past their
estimates, while buyers were lukewarm on lesser works by
established stars like  Yue Minjun . Liu’s “The Meeting Hall,”
one of the first lots of the afternoon session, set a record for
the artist of HK$2.8 million, more than 10 times its estimate.  Zeng Fanzhi ’s “A Man in Melancholy,” Sunday’s top lot,
sold for HK$10.3million, more than six times its estimate, while
Zao Wou-Ki, star of the spring sales this year, remained popular
with all nine of his works on offer beating their high
estimates.  Yesterday’s 8 1/2-hour sale of more than 400 lots brought
the total for the Asian contemporary and 20th century Chinese
art to HK$512.4 million, 32 percent higher than a year ago.  Seven artist records fell in the Nov. 27 evening session,
with Asian buyers or dealers taking 9 of the top 10 lots.
Another eight records fell in the day sale.  Sotheby’s  October sale in Hong Kong totaled HK$3.09
billion, more than 50 percent higher than its previous record in
the city of HK$2 billion set in April.  Christie’s sale prices on art include a commission of 25
percent on the first HK$400,000, 20 percent up to and including
HK$8 million, and 12 percent of the remainder, paid by the
buyer. Estimates are for the hammer price, which doesn’t include
the commission. For wine, the commission is a flat 20 percent.  Today, Christie’s continues with Southeast Asian
contemporary art and jewels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Majendie  in Hong Kong at  amajendie@bloomberg.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 