-- Collahuasi Mine Says It’s Open to Resume Union Talks
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2010-11-27T19:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-27/collahuasi-copper-mine-says-it-s-willing-to-resume-union-talks-in-chile.html
Anglo American Plc  and Xstrata Plc’s
Collahuasi venture in northern Chile said it’s “totally
willing” to return to the negotiating table with union leaders
to end a strike at the world’s fourth-largest copper mine.  The company is prepared to resume collective wage talks
whenever the union decides it wants to meet, according to a
statement distributed today by e-mail. The union has been
pushing for talks to restart for the past nine days, Cristian
Arancibia, the head of the umbrella union that represents
workers at privately owned mines, said today by telephone.  Collahuasi is using non-union employees and contract
workers to help run the mine while it negotiates individually
with workers who have been on strike since Nov. 5 after
collective talks broke down. Chile’s Work Inspectorate issued a
resolution this week for Collahuasi to resume union talks.  “Collahuasi wishes to make clear that the union
negotiating team has never been turned away and the two sides
haven’t reached a satisfactory agreement because of the union’s
intransigence and excessive petitions,” it wrote.  Collahuasi’s offer of 14 million pesos ($29,113) in bonuses
and low-interest loans was scheduled to expire yesterday to be
replaced by a 12 million-peso package. The company must sign at
least half the 1,551-strong unionized workforce to end the
strike under Chilean law.  Collahuasi produced 535,000 metric tons last year, or 3.5
percent of global copper output, according to Standard Bank Plc.
Its production is only surpassed by Escondida,  Freeport-McMoRan
Copper & Gold Inc.’s  Grasberg mine in Indonesia and Codelco’s
Norte division in Chile.  Anglo American and Xstrata each own 44 percent of
Collahuasi and a group led by  Mitsui & Co.  holds the rest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Craze  in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  