-- Dollar Rises Most in 3 Months on Concern at European Debt, Korean Conflict
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-11-27T05:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-27/dollar-climbs-most-since-august-amid-concern-on-europe-korea.html
The  dollar  gained the most since
August against six major counterparts as concern that Europe’s
debt problem will worsen and military action in Korea will
escalate boosted demand for the U.S. currency as a refuge.  The greenback rose against the yen for a fourth straight
week, the longest streak in 20 months, after North Korea shelled
a South Korean island and said “escalated confrontation” will
lead to war. The euro fell for a third week versus the greenback
as investors speculated Portugal and Spain will be the next
European countries to need a financial rescue. The U.S. added
jobs in November for a second month, data next week may show.  “The euro has further to fall against the dollar,” said
 Kathy Lien , director of currency research at online currency
trader GFT Forex in New York. “If there is a war amongst the
Koreas, the yen would fall off aggressively against the dollar.”  The  Dollar Index  rose for a third week, gaining 2.4
percent, the most since the five days ended Aug. 13, to 80.382.
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses the gauge to track the U.S.
currency against the euro, yen, pound, Canadian dollar, Swiss
franc and Swedish krona. It reached 80.522 yesterday, the
strongest level since Sept. 21.  The euro tumbled 3.2 percent to $1.3242, from $1.3673 Nov.
19. The three-week decline was its longest since May. The 16-
nation currency has lost 5.1 percent this month. It slid 2.5
percent against the yen to 111.37, from 114.23 last week.  Longest in 20 Months  The greenback rose 0.7 percent against the yen to 84.10,
from 83.55 yen. It was the fourth weekly gain, the longest
winning streak since the six weeks ended March 6, 2009.  Europe’s common currency fell against 14 of its 16 major
counterparts as the bonds of the region’s most-indebted
countries dropped after Ireland agreed to become the second
nation to seek a bailout, after Greece. The Financial Times
Deutschland reported euro-area policy makers were pushing
Portugal to follow suit to shield Spain from contagion.  The extra  yield  investors demand to hold Irish 10-year
bonds instead of their German counterparts rose to a euro-era
record 6.56 percentage points, while the spread of Portugal’s
10-year debt over German bunds touched 4.55 percentage points.
The Spanish-German 10-year  spread  increased to 2.64 percentage
points, according to Bloomberg generic data. That’s the most
since the introduction of the euro in 1999.  Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  of Spain said there’s
“absolutely” no risk that her country will need a bailout.  Rating Cut  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services lowered Ireland’s long-
term sovereign rating two steps to A from AA-. Irish officials
raced to complete an aid-package deal before financial markets
reopen next week.  “The story in Europe is going to continue; they won’t be
able to stop the contagion to other countries,” said  Blake Jespersen , director of foreign exchange in Toronto at Bank of
Montreal. “All Asian currencies are suffering from the tensions
in Korea. Those two things are really causing the market to take
pause.”  The yen was poised for a 4.4 percent monthly loss versus
the dollar, weakening from 15-year highs it reached in October,
as the U.S. dispatched the aircraft carrier USS George
Washington to take part in naval exercises off the Korean coast.  “If there is an escalation in the Korean tensions, then
that certainly is a negative for Japan’s already-struggling
economy,” said  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in Washington
at Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc., a currency brokerage.
“The proximity to the crisis might be something that’s keeping
investors wary of the Japanese yen.”  Won Plunges  The South Korean won fell the most in five months as North
Korea said the naval exercises naval exercises moved the
peninsula “closer to the brink of war.” The North Korean
artillery attack on Nov. 23 killed four people.  The won slid 2.2 percent, the most since the five days
ended June 11, to 1,159.63 per dollar.  Canada’s dollar gained against 15 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts for the week even as it lost 0.4 percent to
C$1.0213 per dollar as European and Korean concerns damped
investor risk appetite. It strengthened 1.5 percent, the biggest
daily jump in almost three months, on Nov. 24 as Russia said it
began adding the currency to its international reserves.  “So far the amounts are very small, but there’s perhaps
potential for increasing our holdings,”  Alexei Ulyukayev , first
deputy chairman of Russia’s central bank, said in an interview
in Moscow.  The Australian dollar, called the Aussie, touched the
lowest level in seven weeks against the greenback after Reserve
Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  said the nation’s interest rate is
appropriate for the “period ahead.” It fell 2.2 percent to
96.45 U.S. cents, from 98.66 on Nov. 19, and touched 96.13.  New Zealand’s dollar was the worst performer among major
currencies. It tumbled 3.7 percent, the most since the five days
ended Aug. 13, to 74.99 U.S. cents amid shrinking risk appetite.  The U.S. economy added 145,000 jobs in November after a
gain of 151,000 in October, according to the median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey before the Labor
Department reports the data on Dec. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  