-- FBI Charges Man in Alleged Plot to Bomb Tree-Lighting in Portland, Oregon
-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 2010-11-27T22:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-27/fbi-arrests-man-who-tried-to-bomb-tree-lighting-event-in-portland-oregon.html
A Somali-born teenager was arrested
in an undercover operation on charges that he tried to detonate
a van that he thought was filled with explosives at a Portland,
Oregon, Christmas tree-lighting ceremony.  Mohamed Osman Mohamud , 19, obtained what he believed to be
the bomb from undercover FBI employees, according to court
papers filed with his arrest yesterday. The public was never in
danger, a Justice Department  statement  said.  “I want whoever is attending that event to leave, to leave
either dead or injured,” Mohamud allegedly told undercover FBI
agents, according to an affidavit filed in support of the
arrest. At another point, he allegedly said, “It’s gonna be a
fireworks show” and “a spectacular show.”  Mohamud, a naturalized U.S. citizen and resident of
Corvallis, Oregon, told undercover FBI agents that he had been
thinking of committing violent jihad since he was 15 years old,
and that he had written for an online publication supporting
such actions, according to the affidavit.  Counterterrorism officials, citing a series of cases in
recent years, say they are increasingly concerned about American
citizens planning terror attacks in the U.S. because those plots
are difficult to detect and prevent. Faisal Shahzad, a
naturalized U.S. citizen born in Pakistan, was convicted of a
May 1 attempt to detonate a car bomb in New York’s Times Square.  Mohamud is charged with attempted use of a weapon of mass
destruction. He is scheduled to make his first court appearance
in  federal court in Portland  on Nov. 29.  Outside Contacts  In August 2009, Mohamud was in contact by e-mail with an
associate outside the U.S. who authorities suspect of being
involved in terrorism, according to the Justice Department. They
allegedly discussed the possibility of his traveling to Pakistan
to “engage in violent jihad,” the Justice Department statement
said.  Agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation in June
contacted Mohamud under the guise of being affiliated with the
associate, according to the arrest affidavit. He told them he
wanted to stage an explosion and needed help, according to the
Justice Department.  He allegedly told an undercover agent that he wanted to
attack a “huge mass” of people “in their own element with
their families celebrating the holidays.” He said he wanted to
carry out the attack in Oregon because “nobody ever thinks
about it.”  Trial Run  Earlier this month, Mohamud and the undercover FBI agents
went to a remote location in  Lincoln County , Oregon and
detonated a bomb concealed in a backpack as a trial run,
according to the affidavit.  Mohamud mailed bomb components to undercover FBI agents,
who he thought were assembling the device, according to the
affidavit.  Mohamud told the FBI agents that he thought it was
“awesome” when people had to jump from the World Trade Center
in the Sept. 11 attacks, and said he wanted to see body parts
and blood after setting off his bomb, according to the
affidavit.  Before the planned bombing at Portland’s  Pioneer Courthouse
Square , Mohamud put on a white robe and a white and red
headdress, along with a camouflage jacket and read a written
statement in front of a video camera, the affidavit said. “For
as long as you threaten our security, your people will not
remain safe,” he said, according to the affidavit.  Fake Bomb  Yesterday, Mohamud and an undercover agent allegedly drove
a white van near the courthouse. The fake bomb, constructed by
FBI technicians, included six 55-gallon drums containing inert
materials and diesel fuel, according to the affidavit.  Mohamud tried to detonate the bomb using a cell phone,
according to the affidavit. He was taken into custody soon
after, at about 5:40 p.m. Portland time, about 10 minutes after
the tree lighting was scheduled to begin. As he was being
transported, he allegedly yelled “Allahu Akhbar,” or “God is
great” in Arabic, and began kicking the FBI agents.  Mohamud took classes at  Oregon State University  in
Corvallis starting in late 2009 and he withdrew last month, said
Todd Simmons, a university spokesman.  Mohamud faces life in prison if convicted.  “The threat was very real,” said Arthur Balizan, special
agent in charge of the FBI in Oregon, in the Justice Department
statement. “Mohamud was absolutely committed to carrying out an
attack on a very grand scale.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Justin Blum  in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  