-- Federer Beats Djokovic to Set Up ATP Tennis Final Matchup Against Nadal
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-11-27T22:44:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-27/federer-beats-djokovic-to-set-up-atp-tennis-final-matchup-against-nadal.html
Roger Federer  eased past  Novak Djokovic  in straight sets at the  ATP World Tour Finals , where
he’ll face  Rafael Nadal  for the title tomorrow.  The second-ranked Swiss defeated No. 3 Djokovic 6-1, 6-4 in
the semifinals at the  O2 Arena  in London.  “It seems like it’s working this week,” Federer, who’s
not lost a set in the tournament, said in a courtside interview.
“I’m really happy, because I was playing against a player who
had a great season.”  Federer, 29, is trying to join  Pete Sampras  and  Ivan Lendl 
as the only men to win the season-ending championships five
times. Nadal, who’s yet to win the tournament that is contested
by the best eight players in the world, has beaten Federer in 14
of their 21 meetings.  Nadal advanced to his first final by defeating  Andy Murray 
of Britain, 7-6 (7-5), 3-6, 7-6 (8-6) in a match that lasted
three hours, 10 minutes. Federer only needed one hour, 19
minutes to advance.  “I think it was an incredible tennis match,” Nadal told a
news conference. “I am very happy for everything because it was
a really difficult match against one of the best players of the
world.”  Federer easily won the first set from Djokovic after twice
breaking serve and hitting 13 winners.  The 23-year-old Djokovic, who’ll play in the  Davis Cup 
final against France next week, fought back in the second set to
break for a 2-0 lead. Federer broke back to trail 3-2, and the
16-time major tournament winner forced a double break for 5-4
with a forehand return before serving out for the win.  Successful Season  Nadal had entered this year’s tournament after his most
successful season, winning the French Open, Wimbledon and the
U.S. Open. His first title in New York made him the youngest man
since tennis turned professional in 1968 to win all four majors.  The Spaniard took a 3-1 lead in the first-set tiebreaker
and was up 5-3 when Murray won one of the longest rallies of the
tournament with a volley. The 24-year-old then clenched his
fists and shouted at his uncle and long-time coach Toni Nadal
after he converted his first set point with a forehand drop shot.  The 23-year-old Murray, who will move one spot higher in
the rankings to No. 4 next week, broke for a 4-3 lead in the
second set. A forehand winner gave him the second set.  Serving at 1-1, 40-40 in the third set, Murray handed Nadal
a break point with a drop shot attempt into the net. The
Spaniard then broke serve for the first time in the match with a
return.  Unforced Errors  After Nadal squandered his first match point at 5-3, Murray
held with a drop shot. Serving for a place in the finals, Nadal
made two unforced errors and a third mistake on his forehand to
give Murray a break point, which the Scot took with a backhand
to tie 5-5.  The set went to a tiebreaker and Murray raced to a 3-0 lead.
Nadal fought back to 5-5 and Murray saved a second match point
at 6-5 down. Nadal hit a forehand winner for the victory.  “Both of us played very well,” Murray told a news
conference. “I probably played one bad game the whole match, or
maybe just a couple of bad points. I’m disappointed to lose, but
it was a great match.”  Canada’s  Daniel Nestor  and  Nenad Zimonjic  of Serbia
advanced to the doubles final with a 6-3, 3-6, 12-10 win over
the top-ranked team of Bob and Mike Bryan of the U.S. Nestor and
Zimonjic will meet India’s  Mahesh Bhupathi  and  Max Mirnyi  of
Belarus, who defeated Poland’s Mariusz Fyrstenberg and Marcin
Matkowski 6-4, 6-4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at the O2 arena through the London sports desk
at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  