-- Greenland Awards Baffin Bay Licenses to Statoil, GDF, Cairn
-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2010-11-27T17:45:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-27/greenland-awards-baffin-bay-licenses-to-statoil-gdf-cairn.html
Greenland awarded seven oil and
gas exploration licenses in the Baffin Bay to companies
including Royal Dutch Shell Plc and GDF Suez SA after Cairn
Energy Plc in September struck oil in the first exploration
well off the island in a decade.  The license recipients, which also include Nunaoil
A/S,  ConocoPhillips , A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, Dong Energy
A/S and Cairn, were awarded a total of 70,768 square
kilometers for exploration, Greenland’s  Bureau of Minerals
and Petroleum  said in a statement on its website today.  “The companies that have been awarded a licence were
selected according to a thorough evaluation of, for
example, their financial and technical strengths, and their
experience in managing safety, health and environmental
issues,” Ove Karl Berthelsen, Greenland’s minister for
Industry and Mineral Resources, said in the statement.
“The licence holders will help explore Greenland’s oil
potential in a safe and appropriate manner.”  The  Bureau of Minerals and Petroleum  received 17 block
applications from 12 international oil companies, according
to the statement.  Interest in Greenland, a semi-autonomous territory
controlled by Denmark, is increasing as global warming
makes Arctic exploration easier and resources dwindle in
mature areas such as the North Sea. Greenland’s waters may
hold 50 billion barrels of crude and gas, the U.S.
Geological Survey estimates, enough to meet Europe’s energy
demand for almost two years. The area off the western coast
may hold as many as 18 billion barrels of oil equivalent,
according to the USGS.  ‘Close Cooperation’  “We are looking forward to exploring these new
frontier opportunities in the Baffin Bay together with our
partners in the bid consortium and in close cooperation
with the Greenland authorities,”  Tim Dodson , Statoil’s
senior vice president for global exploration, said in a
statement.  Edinburgh-based Cairn said on Sept. 21 it encountered
two different types of oil in a 400-meter (1,300-feet)
section in its Alpha-1S1 well. The company found gas in its
first well rather than oil. Previous explorers had made six
failed attempts in the past three decades.  The blocks awarded today are north of the 67th
parallel, where oil has been seen seeping out of rocks
along the shoreline. The areas range in size between 8,000
square kilometers and 15,000 square kilometers.  Production Facilities  Greenland has also granted 13 licenses since 2002 to
Cairn,  Exxon Mobil Corp. , Chevron Corp., Encana Corp.,
 Husky Energy Inc. , Dong Energy, PA Resources AB and
Nunaoil, the island’s state-owned company.  As many as 20 wells may be drilled in the next 10
years and production may start in a decade, Joern Skov
Nielsen, head of the minerals agency, said earlier this
year in an interview. Exxon, Chevron and Dong must decide
on drilling in their licenses off Disko Island over the
next four years. Each well costs about $100 million and
production facilities may need investments of $5 billion to
$6 billion, Skov Nielsen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marianne Stigset  in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  