-- Dublin Protesters Decry Ireland's Budget Cuts as Bailout Agreement Looms
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2010-11-27T15:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-27/irish-unions-protest-against-government-s-austerity-measures.html
About 50,000 people marched in
Dublin to protest the Irish government’s 15 billion-euro ($20
billion) austerity measures aimed at cutting the budget deficit.  Today’s march was organized by the Irish Congress of Trade
Unions, an umbrella organization for labor groups. The ICTU
general secretary, David Begg, said the crowd exceeded 100,000
people, compared with 50,000 estimated by police.  Ireland’s government is talks with the European Union and
the International Monetary Fund for an 85 billion-euro rescue
package as it seeks to shore up its banks and narrow the
deficit. Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said Nov. 24 that the
government will cut spending by about 20 percent and raise taxes
over the next four years to reduce the gap to 3 percent of the
economy by 2014, from 32 percent this year when bank costs are
included.  ICTU President Jack O’Connor, addressing protesters in the
city center, said the country had been brought “to its knees”
by the government and bankers. “Several generations of Irish
men and women” will have to foot the bill, he said.  Ireland’s economy unexpectedly shrank in the second quarter
as consumers spent less and an increase in imports outweighed
rising exports. Gross domestic product fell 1.2 percent after
expanding 2.2 percent in previous quarter, the Central
Statistics Office said on Sept. 23.  ‘Highly Visible’  A rescue of  Anglo Irish Bank Corp. , which the government
nationalized in January 2009, may cost as much as 34.3 billion
euros, Lenihan said Sept. 30.  Police have a “highly visible presence along the route of
the march” and are prepared should anyone try to “exploit such
events for their own ends,” Police Chief Superintendent Michael
O’Sullivan said in statement yesterday.  Police have clashed with protesters in Dublin twice this
month. Riot officers helped remove student demonstrators from
the Finance Ministry on Nov. 3 and they ejected activists who
entered the grounds of the prime minister’s offices on Nov. 22.  “The EU is insisting on reduction of the gap between our
state revenue and spending to 3 percent of GDP by 2014,”
O’Connor said in a statement on the union’s website calling for
people to join the march. “This is a virtually impossible
target because it restricts the capacity for growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  