-- Japan's Upper House Censures Sengoku, Mabuchi, Adding to Pressure on Kan
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 2010-11-27T05:54:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-27/japan-s-upper-house-censures-sengoku-mabuchi-adding-to-pressure-on-kan.html
Japan’s opposition-controlled upper
house censured two Cabinet ministers last night, the latest blow
to Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  as his public approval rating
dwindles.  Non-binding motions urged Chief Cabinet Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku  and Transport Minister  Sumio Mabuchi  to resign over
their handling of the collision between a Chinese fishing boat
and Japanese Coast Guard vessels near islands claimed by both
nations. Kyodo News earlier reported the motions had passed.  Opposition criticism of Kan’s administration and leadership
has eroded public support for his  Democratic Party of Japan -led
government. The Liberal Democratic Party, the largest opposition
force, has threatened to boycott parliament, while the current
legislative session may end Dec. 3 with about a dozen bills left
unapproved.  “Kan may have to shift Sengoku and Mabuchi to other posts
in a Cabinet reshuffle as early as December,” said  Hirotada Asakawa , an independent political analyst based in Tokyo. “But
this may further damage his popularity, and Kan will be more and
more driven toward a dead end.”  Minoru Yanagida  resigned as justice minister this week
after reportedly telling constituents he didn’t know why he was
appointed and the job needs only two phrases: “I’d like to
refrain from commenting on individual cases,” and “We’re
responding to the case in accordance with the law.”  Public approval of Kan’s Cabinet fell to 23.6 percent, down
9.1 percentage points from early this month, Kyodo News reported
Nov. 24, citing its own poll.  Support for the ruling DPJ fell below the opposition LDP
for the first time under Kan’s leadership, at 22.1 percent to
24.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  