-- Loonie Falls Third Week as Korea, Ireland Increase Investor Risk Aversion
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-11-27T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-27/loonie-falls-third-week-as-korea-ireland-increase-investor-risk-aversion.html
The Canadian dollar fell for a third
week as concern that Europe’s debt woes and conflict between
North and South Korea will escalate renewed risk aversion,
driving  investors to the safety of the U.S. currency.  The currency gained against 15 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts as investors increased bets the Bank of Canada
would boost interest rates and Russia began adding the Canadian
dollar to its international reserves. A report next week is
forecast to show the economy added 15,000 jobs in November.  “Canada is very sensitive to global risk sentiment,”
 Camilla Sutton,  a Bank of Nova Scotia currency strategist in
Toronto, said in a telephone interview. “Canada outperformed
over the five days as it’s in a good sovereign position but
escalated fears of contagion in Europe and escalated tensions in
Korea have been an ongoing theme.”  The Canadian currency fell 0.4 percent to C$1.0208 per U.S.
dollar yesterday, compared with C$1.00168 Nov. 19. It reached
C$1.0076 on Nov. 25, the strongest level since Nov. 16. The last
time the dollar fell three straight weeks was August. It has
declined 0.1 percent this month. One Canadian dollar buys 97.96
U.S. cents.  The loonie, as the dollar is often called because of the
waterfowl on the C$1 coin, rose 2.8 percent to C$1.3519 versus
the euro, its biggest weekly gain on the 16-nation currency
since the week ended May 14.  Korean Conflict  The euro fell yesterday after the Financial Times
Deutschland reported that euro-area policy makers are pushing
Portugal to seek assistance from a 750 billion-euro ($993
billion) bailout fund to shield Spain from contagion. German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  warned this week the euro-area is
“exceptionally serious.” Irish officials are trying to
complete a deal for an international aid package before
financial markets reopen next week.  North Korea on Nov. 23 fired artillery on to a South Korean
fishing village and military base, killing four people. A state-
run news agency said planned naval exercises by South Korea and
the U.S. moved the peninsula “closer to the brink of war.”  The Canadian dollar is the still the second-best performer
this month against its U.S. counterpart as annual  inflation  rate
rose more than forecast, increasing speculation the Bank of
Canada will resume interest rate hikes.  Consumer prices rose 2.4 percent in October, faster than
all 22 economists in a Bloomberg survey predicted, a government
report showed Nov. 23.  Central Bank  “The interest rate hike is farther down the road but
Europe and Korea are here and going to be around a while,” said
 John Curran , a senior vice president at CanadianForex Ltd., an
online foreign-exchange dealer. “The Canadian dollar will
remain relatively stable and won’t trade too far out of its
range unless people get really worried about things in Europe.”  Central bank governor  Mark Carney  kept his  key policy rate 
unchanged in October after three successive increases, citing a
weaker inflation outlook. Since then U.S. and Canadian
indicators suggest the growth may be picking up, making
increases more likely.  Yields on the June 2011 bankers acceptances contract, a
barometer of short-term rate expectations, rose 10 basis points
in the three days after the inflation report.  Canada’s currency will strengthen past parity against the
 U.S. dollar  by the end of March, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 27 economists.  Russian Purchases  Canada’s  benchmark  two-year bond yield rose 2 basis points
this week to 1.67 percent.  Russia announced Nov. 24 it had begun diversifying foreign
exchange reserves by purchasing Canadian dollars.  “We have recently begun investing in assets denominated in
the Canadian dollar,”  Alexei Ulyukayev , first deputy chairman
of Russia’s central bank, said in an interview in Moscow. “So
far the amounts are very small, but there’s perhaps potential
for increasing our holdings.”  In June, Ulyukayev said Russia was considering adding the
Australian and Canadian dollars after fluctuations in the
greenback and euro. Russia’s reserves were made up of 47 percent
U.S. dollars, 41 percent euros, 10 percent pounds and 2 percent
yen. Russia hasn’t bought any Australian dollars yet, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  