-- Treasuries Head for Second Monthly Decline Amid Signs of Stronger Economy
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-11-27T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-27/treasuries-head-for-monthly-decline-amid-stronger-economic-data.html
Treasuries headed for a second
monthly loss as stronger-than-forecast economic data and
confidence the Federal Reserve’s $600 billion Treasury purchase
program will fuel more growth, reduced demand for the debt.  The yield on the two-year note  rose  for the fourth straight
week, the longest period of increases since April 2, as a report
on Nov. 24 showed initial jobless claims dropped to the lowest
level since July 2008, reinforcing sentiment the employment
market is healing. A report on Dec. 3 may show nonfarm payrolls
rose by 145,000, according to a Bloomberg survey.  “It’s more of a function of the negative sentiment in the
Treasury market, given the broader macroeconomic strength,”  Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in
Stamford, Connecticut, said Nov. 24. “The market has been under
pressure.”  Ten-year note  yields  climbed 35 basis points on the month,
or 0.35 percentage point, to 2.87 percent yesterday in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 2.625
percent security maturing in November 2020 was at 97 29/32. For
the week, 10-year yields were little changed.  Two-year note yields rose one basis point to 0.51 percent.
Thirty-year bond yields fell three basis points to 4.21 percent.  Total Return  U.S. government securities have handed investors a loss of
1.3 percent in November, following a 0.2 percent decline in
October, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.
Treasuries haven’t handed in negative returns in two consecutive
months since they declined June of 2009, when signs of economic
improvement were eating into demand for debt.  Ten-year Treasury yields will drop to 2.63 percent by year-
end, according to a Bloomberg survey of 62 financial firms with
the most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  Nonfarm payrolls rose for the second rise in as many
months, according to a Bloomberg survey of 56 economists before
a report next week. The jobless rate is expected to remain
steady at 9.6 percent.  Jobless claims declined by 34,000 to 407,000 in the week
ended Nov. 20, Labor Department figures showed Nov. 24 in
Washington. The median projection of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a drop to 435,000.  Jobs Connection  “The jobless claims contributed to the weakness in the
market,”  James Combias , New York-based head of Treasury trading
at Mizuho Financial Group Inc., one of 18 primary dealers that
trade with the Fed, said Nov. 24.  Consumer spending rose in October for a fifth month as a
rebound in incomes lifted the biggest part of the U.S. economy
at the start of the final quarter of 2010.  Household purchases advanced 0.4 percent after a 0.3
percent gain in September that was larger than previously
estimated, Commerce Department figures showed that day. Incomes
climbed 0.5 percent.  Treasuries pared weekly losses amid mounting tensions
between North and South Korea and renewed concerns about a
European sovereign debt crisis spreading from Ireland to
Portugal and Spain.  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services yesterday downgraded
Anglo Irish Bank Corp. Ltd., to below investment grade,
reinforcing concern about financial stress within euro-zone
countries. The agency dropped the counterparty credit ratings on
the bank six levels to B, or below investment grade, from BBB.
The ratings remain on CreditWatch with negative implications,
S&P said.  ‘Uncertainty in Europe’  “There’s still a lot of uncertainty in Europe,” said  John Spinello , chief technical strategist in New York at primary
dealer Jefferies Group Inc. “Without the buybacks from the Fed
and the sovereign debt crisis in Europe, yields may have gone up
beyond 3 percent.”  Ireland this week became the second country to seek to tap
a European-Union led 750 billion-euro ($993 billion) bailout
account. The yield on Irish 10-year debt climbed almost 1
percentage point this week to 9.32 percent yesterday, from 8.35
percent on Nov. 19.  Euro-area finance ministers plan to complete an
international aid package agreement for Ireland on Nov. 28, a
European Union official said on condition of anonymity.  “Bad debts and government management practices have been
well known for several years,”  Jim Vogel , head of agency debt
research at FTN Financial in Memphis, Tennessee, wrote in a note
to clients. “It was just assumed a return of leverage and the
resulting nominal economic growth would allow everyone to grow
their way out of the difficulty.” He didn’t respond to phone
calls seeking further comment.  Fed Shops  The Fed has acquired $48 billion in Treasuries since it
initiated the second round of purchases on Nov. 12. The central
bank will purchase securities twice on Nov. 29, once each day
for the remainder of next week and on the first four days of the
following week.  In its first round of asset purchases, ended in March, the
Fed bought $1.75 trillion in securities, including $300 billion
in Treasuries, in an effort to spur economic growth strong
enough to lower unemployment from near a 26-year high.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will hold a “Conversation on
the Economy” on Nov. 30 at Ohio State University in Columbus,
Ohio.  The U.S. sold $99 billion of notes this week in auctions
held during the three days ended Nov. 24. The final two sales
drew higher-than-forecast yields and reduced bidding compared
with previous sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  