-- Rio Gets Army Help Amid Unrest as Police Occupy Slums
-- B y   C a r l o s   C a m i n a d a
-- 2010-11-27T18:54:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-27/rio-police-troops-take-over-crime-stronghold-after-unrest-leaves-34-dead.html
Hundreds of Brazilian soldiers are
guarding access to Rio de Janeiro’s biggest crime stronghold as
police squads move into the area’s hillside slums and urge drug
traffickers to surrender in a second day of shootings.  An 800-strong Army force is patrolling the surroundings of
a dozen shanty towns known as Complexo do Alemao to prevent
criminals from escaping. The besieged traffickers, including
hundreds who fled from a neighboring shanty town occupied by
police two days ago, have exchanged shots with police since
yesterday. Officers urged the traffickers to surrender before
they move further into the slums to occupy the area.  “We are ordering the criminals to surrender while there’s
time,” Military Police General Commander Mario Sergio Duarte
told reporters today. “There isn’t much time left.”  The biggest security operation in Rio’s history is part of
a drive to end organized crime control of slums, or favelas,
ahead of the 2014 soccer World Cup and the 2016 summer Olympics.
More than 21,000 police are securing the streets in Rio. Gangs
have set  cars and buses  on fire across the city all week and the
conflicts have killed 35 people.  The Rio de Janeiro state government has restored security
at 15 favelas in the past two years and set up 12 police
departments in these communities. Taking over Complexo do Alemao
is the state security force’s biggest challenge so far.  “It will be difficult,” Jose Beltrame, the state’s
security secretary, said on TV today. “It calls for a lot of
strategy and a lot of patience.”  “Elite Squad”  Soldiers prevented two cars from escaping last night. The
three traffickers in the cars were arrested after an exchange of
shots, Brazil’s Eastern Military Command said on its website.  Rio’s Special Police Operations Squad, also known as Bope,
started moving into Complexo do Alemao yesterday under gunfire
after occupying neighboring Vila Cruzeiro the previous day.  Bope, depicted by Brazilian director  Jose Padilha  in his
2007 film “Elite Squad” and a sequel released this year, is
using military weaponry including snipers and  Navy tanks  to
overpower the traffickers.  The deployment of police to crack down on organized crime
in 27 favelas has triggered shootings and attacks on vehicles in
the past few days.  Crime groups set about 100 vehicles ablaze in Rio’s
metropolitan area in past days, including cars, trucks, buses,
vans and motorcycles, according to police reports. The incidents
include two cars set on fire in the Ipanema and Copacabana
beachside neighborhoods and a bus scorched in the city center.  Ipanema Bomb Scare  Streets in  Ipanema  and Copacabana were blocked by police on
Nov. 24 because of boxes suspected of containing bombs and later
proven not to hold any explosives.  Officers have arrested more than 200 people in raids,
seizing homemade bombs, grenades, guns, military weapons,
dynamite and bottles filled with gasoline, police said.  Authorities have sent 20 drug traffic leaders to a maximum
security prison in Brazil’s southern Parana state in the past
three days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Caminada  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  