-- Black Friday Sales Up 0.3% to $10.7 Billion, ShopperTrak Says
-- B y   D a n   H a r t   a n d   I a n   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-11-27T21:14:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-27/u-s-black-friday-shoppers-beat-last-year-s-pace.html
Black Friday sales were little
changed, rising 0.3 percent, from last year, as U.S. retailers’
efforts to lure customers by opening early failed, ShopperTrak
said.  The early holiday sales and promotions boosted sales and
traffic for the first two weeks of this month through Nov. 13 by
6.1 percent and 6.2 percent, respectively, ShopperTrak said in a
statement on its Website.  Shoppers nationwide spent $10.69 billion yesterday,  Bill Martin , founder of Chicago-based research firm ShopperTrak, said
in the statement. Black Friday is the day after Thanksgiving Day
in the U.S. and the traditional beginning of holiday season
buying.  Hundreds of people lined up at individual stores across the
U.S. to take advantage of special deals as they face down a slow
economic recovery.  Sears Holdings Corp.  and  Toys “R” Us Inc. 
started their Black Friday “doorbuster” sales on Thanksgiving
Day to attract consumers after two years of dampened shopping
enthusiasm since the recession.  Sears, the largest U.S. department-store chain, opened at 7
a.m. with bargains that included a 58-inch Panasonic Corp. high-
definition plasma television for $1,044, 55 percent off its list
price of $2,299.  Open on Thanksgiving  Toys “R” Us, the world’s biggest toy retailer, opened
earlier this year to accommodate customers who said they wanted
to shop after Thanksgiving dinner, said Chief Executive Officer
 Jerry Storch . Employees at the chain’s Times Square store in New
York handed out Santa hats to about 1,500 shoppers queued
outside before the opening, spokeswoman Jennifer Albano said.  In 2009, Black Friday spending rose 0.5 percent to $10.66
billion, compared with a year earlier, according to ShopperTrak.  Analysts’ estimates for the holiday season’s aggregate
sales vary from little changed to increases of as much as 4.5
percent. The Washington-based  National Retail Federation 
forecasts a gain of 2.3 percent to $447.1 billion after an
uptick of 0.4 percent last year and a 3.9 percent drop in 2008.  The projections coincide with a rebound in U.S. consumer
spending this year as the economy began adding jobs. Consumer
spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the nation’s
economy, increased at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the third
quarter, according to the Commerce Department. That was the
fastest since the final three months of 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net ;
 Ian Thomson  in New York at 
 ithomson2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 Rajello@bloomberg.net . 