-- U.S. Seeks to Keep Korean Tension From Escalating to Conflict, Mullen Says
-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 2010-11-27T18:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-27/u-s-seeks-to-keep-korean-tension-from-escalating-to-conflict-mullen-says.html
The U.S. is trying to prevent North
Korea’s attack on a South Korean island from escalating into a
more significant conflict, said Admiral  Mike Mullen , chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff.  “We’re very focused on restraint and not letting this
thing get out of control,” Mullen told CNN in an interview
scheduled for broadcast tomorrow on “Fareed Zakaria GPS” and
posted on the network’s Website. “The South Koreans so far have
responded that way. Nobody wants this thing to turn into a
conflict.”  North Korea on Nov. 23 shelled a South Korean fishing
community and military base with artillery rounds, killing four
people. U.S. President  Barack Obama  and leaders in Japan and
South Korea have publicly urged China, North Korea’s biggest
trading partner, to use its influence on  Kim Jong Il ’s
government to resolve the conflict.  The shelling of Yeonpyeong raised tensions that flared
after an international inquiry concluded that North Korea
torpedoed the South Korean warship Cheonan in March and more
recently following North Korean claims of advances in its
nuclear program.  China has the most leverage with North Korea and “it’s
really important that Beijing lead here,” Mullen said.  North Korea’s actions destabilize the region “and China
has as much to lose as anybody in that region with the
continuation of this kind of behavior,” he said.  The U.S. and South Korea were set to begin joint military
exercises in the waters west of the Korean Peninsula as a show
of force. North Korea denounced the exercises as reckless and
said it would move the peninsula closer to the “brink of war.”  The Korean won was Asia’s worst-performing currency against
the dollar yesterday, after North Korea threatened “a shower of
terrifying fire.” The  Kospi  stock index fell 1.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Justin Blum  in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  