-- Hussey, Haddin Hit 100s in Record Stand to Put Australia on Top in Ashes
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-11-27T09:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-27/hussey-haddin-hit-100s-in-record-stand-to-put-australia-on-top-in-ashes.html
Mike Hussey  and  Brad Haddin  hit
centuries as Australia took a 202-run lead over England on day
three of the series-opening Ashes cricket Test in Brisbane.  Hussey struck a Test-best 195, while Haddin scored 136 in
a record 307-run game-changing partnership that lifted
Australia to 481 in reply to England’s first-innings 260. The
touring team was 19-0 in its second innings at stumps.  The stand put the Australians in control of the first
match of the best-of-five contest as they seek to regain the
Ashes following last year’s 2-1 series loss in the U.K. They’d
averaged 435 in the first innings in the past 20 Tests at the
Gabba, a platform that set up 16 victories and four draws.  “We’ve got to try and finish the job,” Hussey told
reporters. “We’ve got to be very patient and disciplined for
long periods of time and if we are and hold our chances we’ll
have a great chance. We know it’s going to be hard work.”  Australia, which last lost a Test at the Brisbane venue in
1988, resumed on its overnight score of 220-5 and didn’t lose a
wicket until after the tea interval.  Hussey and Haddin survived the second new ball before
going on to establish the highest partnership for any wicket in
a Gabba Test, beating the 276 by  Don Bradman  and Lindsay
Hassett against England in 1946-47.  Appeals  Left-hander Hussey won an appeal on 82 when he was given
out leg-before-wicket, with the video replay showing  James Anderson ’s delivery pitched outside leg stump. Hussey then
survived lbw appeals from Anderson in consecutive deliveries
when on 85, with the second ball hitting both pads in front of
the stumps. England couldn’t refer the not out decision for
video review because its challenges had expired.  “They bowled really well and we probably had a little bit
of luck as well,” Hussey told Channel Nine. “So to get
through that and to get our team in a great position gives us a
lot of satisfaction.”  Hussey justified his retention in Australia’s batting
lineup by scoring his 12th Test century and first since
reaching triple-figures in January against Pakistan. He went
past his previous best score of 182 with a pull shot for four
off Finn, which also brought up the 300-run partnership.  Partnership Breaker  England spinner  Graeme Swann  finally broke the stand by
removing Haddin, who was dropped on 63 and 113, in the sixth
over after tea. Swann pushed the ball across Haddin from around
the wicket and a thick edge flew low to  Paul Collingwood , who
took a one-handed catch at slip.  The wicketkeeper-batsman, who had joined Hussey at the
crease yesterday with Australia at 143-5, hit 16 fours and a
six in his 287-ball innings. He reached his third Test hundred
by driving a Swann delivery straight into the stands.  “It was one of those things, I just had a clear head and
went for it,” Haddin said of reaching his century with a six.  Hussey moved within five runs of his double century before
getting out to a pull shot off Finn’s bowling. His 330-ball
effort, which featured 26 fours and a six, made it back-to-back
Ashes centuries following his 121 at The Oval in London 15
months ago.  Finn then removed  Mitchell Johnson ,  Peter Siddle  and
Xavier Doherty to wrap up the innings and complete figures of
6-125, his third five-wicket haul in Tests.  England openers  Andrew Strauss  and  Alastair Cook  guided
their team to the close without loss. Strauss, who failed to
score in the first innings, will resume on 11 with Cook on 6.  “Australia are on top at the moment but the nature of the
way we’ve played our cricket over the last 18 months will stand
us in good stead,” Finn told reporters. “That dogfight will
come out. We’re gonna dig our heels and take it hour by hour.”  England’s last Ashes series victory on Australian soil was
in 1986-87. Australia has only lost two home series since that
defeat to  Mike Gatting ’s England team.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Brisbane through the Sydney newsroom at 
8601 or  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  