-- Mac fans buzzing about expected Apple "iPhone"
-- By  Duncan Martell
-- Mon Nov 20, 2006 2:36pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/20/businesspro-apple-dc-idUSN0820561720061120

 

 SAN FRANCISCO  (Reuters) - The long-rumored arrival of a 
hybrid mobile phone and iPod music player from Apple Computer 
Inc. ( AAPL.O ) has morphed from a question of "If" to "When" 
among fans and analysts. 

  Since Apple's introduction of the iPod five years ago, the 
company has sold more than 67 million of the devices and more 
than 1.5 billion songs from its iTunes online music store.  Now, Chief Executive Steve Jobs and Apple are poised to 
roll out what has been dubbed the "iPhone," perhaps as soon as 
January next year at the Macworld conference that kicks off 
every new year, analysts say.  "From a technical standpoint, the phone is pretty much 
done," said American Technology Research analyst Shaw Wu. "It's 
a big endeavor and we believe it's beyond speculation."  Speculation has simmered since even before the introduction 
of the ROKR phone from Motorola Inc. MOT.N that uses a 
slimmed-down version of the iTunes digital music jukebox to 
play 100 songs. But sales were lackluster as users complained 
the phone did not hold more songs.  In recent weeks, blogs that cater to Apple fans have been 
buzzing insistently that the iPhone is coming. Just this week, 
the Taiwanese financial daily, Commercial Times, reported that 
Taiwan-based Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. Ltd. ( 2317.TW ) is 
building the iPhone.  "There is a lot of buzz," said Gartner analyst Mike 
McGuire. "But there are also a lot of things in the way that 
make it difficult. Which carrier and the like they use are not 
trivial challenges."  An Apple spokesman said the company does not comment on 
rumors or speculation.  Jobs and Apple are famously tight-lipped about unannounced 
products. But company Chief Financial Officer Peter Oppenheimer 
did hint about a possible mobile phone with iPod-like functions 
during a conference call with analysts in July to discuss 
third-quarter financial results.
  'NOT SITTING AROUND DOING NOTHING'  Asked to comment on how Apple would compete with offerings 
such as Sony Corp.'s ( 6758.T )( SNE.N ) popular Walkman phone, 
Oppenheimer said he believed Apple would do just fine.  "We don't think that the phones that are available today 
make the best music players," he said. "We think the iPod is. 
But over time, that is likely to change. And we're not sitting 
around doing nothing."  Analyst Wu believes the iPhone would be a candy-bar-shaped 
phone, rather than a flip phone like Motorola's huge hit, the 
RAZR mobile phone.  And he believes the iPhone would not be too bogged down 
with all the bells and whistles often crammed into today's 
smart phones.  "I think it'll be pretty simple with functionality probably 
similar to an iPod Nano," Wu said. "It's going to be very 
similar to the Sony Walkman phone, which is very media-centric 
and that's Apple's strength."  The now-widely-expected iPhone is also a way for Apple to 
add yet another line of revenue to its business. Sales of the 
iPod, still far and away the No. 1 digital music player, have 
moderated somewhat recently and sales of Mac computers, now 
powered by Intel Corp. chips, have set records.  But with about a billion cell phones expected to be sold 
next year, if Apple can break into that market and be half as 
well received as its iPod was, it adds up to serious dollars.  Wu estimates that a 1 percent share of a billion unit 
market, with the iPhone carrying an average price tag of $200, 
could mean about $2 billion a year more for the Cupertino, 
California-based company.  But Apple needs to learn from the ROKR and introduce a real 
phone, not just a music player with a phone jammed in almost as 
an afterthought, analysts said.  "The key challenge here is if they were doing it, it has to 
be a very good phone and a good extension or subset of the iPod 
and iTunes software," McGuire said. "It's not just music. It 
would have to be a good media device."  One other not inconsiderable decision is what cell phone 
standard -- CDMA or GSM, for example -- the phone would use and 
whether Apple would link up with one mobile phone company to 
provide the service.  Some Mac watchers, such as site ThinkSecret, have mentioned 
Cingular as an early, exclusive winner. Still others say the 
phone will be sold with an Apple-branded MVNO, or mobile 
virtual network operator, in which Apple effectively leases 
excess capacity from other mobile service providers and resells 
it to customers.  "The other thing is finding a set of carriers or an 
ecosystem where they wouldn't need to be dependent on the 
carriers," McGuire said. "But they've won over tough audiences 
before, like the music labels."