-- Paulson says need to apply business rules lightly
-- By  John Parry
-- Mon Nov 20, 2006 2:43pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/20/businesspro-economy-paulson-dc-idUSN2025371720061120

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson said 
on Monday that rules to head off corporate scandals like those 
in the 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley law must be applied with care to 
avoid damaging U.S. competitive ability. 

  "Excessive regulation slows innovation, imposes needless 
costs on investors, and stifles competition and job creation," 
Paulson told the Economic Club of New York, noting that 
companies seem less eager to go public in the United States.  Paulson, speaking for the first time since Democrats 
captured majorities in both houses of Congress in November 7 
elections, said the Treasury plans to sponsor a conference 
early next year to weigh how to protect U.S. competitiveness.  While the Bush administration has signaled it wants a light 
hand on regulation, Democrats have indicated they feel 
corporate scandals like the Enron Corp. collapse and huge 
executive compensation needs careful scrutiny.  Paulson singled out the Sarbanes-Oxley rules, designed in 
the wake of Enron to give investors more information, for 
special comment. He said new laws to amend Sarbanes-Oxley were 
not needed but its provisions should be applied flexibly to 
reduce compliance costs, especially for small businesses.
  MARKETS THE "LIFEBLOOD"  Paulson, a former chairman of Wall Street giant Goldman 
Sachs, called capital markets "the lifeblood of our economy" 
and said they remained "the deepest, most efficient and most 
transparent in the world" but cited reasons for concern.  "Recently, in the wake of new, heightened regulatory and 
listing requirements for all public companies in the U.S., we 
have witnessed changes in IPO (initial public offering) 
activity," Paulson said.  He said IPO dollar volume "is well below the historical 
trend" and more public companies are going private instead of 
remaining as publicly listed, shareholder companies.  "This is occurring in record numbers, at record volumes 
and, as a percentage of overall public company M&A (mergers and 
acquisition) activity, is approaching levels we have not seen 
in almost 20 years," Paulson said.  He said layers of regulation create a situation that not 
only makes enforcement inefficient but also "can appear 
confusing and threatening" to companies.
  WASTED EFFORT  Paulson expressed special concern about section 404 
provisions of Sarbanes-Oxley that require managers to assess 
the effectiveness of a company's internal controls and have an 
auditor attest that they are sufficient.  "It seems clear that a significant portion of the time, 
energy and expense associated with implementing section 404 
might have been better focused on direct business matters that 
create jobs and reward shareholders," Paulson said.  The Treasury chief said "we cannot legislate or rule-make 
our way to ethical behavior," but instead must count on 
corporate behavior being based upon strong principles.  After his address, questioners asked Paulson what he 
intends to focus on in the remaining two years of the Bush 
administration and whether he still thought an overhaul of the 
Social Security retirement system was possible.  "It's a good time to deal with it just because our 
economy's so strong and economic policies are working well, and 
we're better off dealing with this at a time of strength," 
Paulson replied, adding it would be impossible to do unless 
Democrats joined him in a bipartisan effort.  Paulson's predecessor, John Snow, tried in vain in 2005 to 
sell a Bush administration proposal for making private accounts 
part of Social Security.  The Social Security system is projected to face enormous 
strain as "baby boomers" retire but the Bush administration was 
criticized for seeking a solution in the private sector rather 
than through public policy.  Paulson, who took over the Treasury Department in July and 
avoided campaigning during the congressional elections, has 
made improving trade relations with China a priority and noted 
he was heading back to Beijing in about three weeks' time.  But he played down hopes for quick success in either 
persuading China to revalue its yuan currency upward or to 
boost domestic consumption as he and others agree is needed to 
help reduce record U.S.-China trade deficits.  "We are taking a long-term approach and I think we can make 
progress by having discussions that are more strategic and 
longer-term orientated, dealing with some of the real 
fundamental issues," Paulson said.  (additional reporting by Gertrude Chavez, Alister Bull and 
Mark Felsenthal)