-- UPDATE 3-Russia's Evraz to buy Oregon Steel for $2.3 bln
-- 
-- Mon Nov 20, 2006 6:27am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/20/minerals-evraz-oregon-idUSL2091895720061120

 

  (Adds details, comments from Evraz chairman, CFO) 

  By Robin Paxton MOSCOW  Nov 20 (Reuters) - Russian steel maker Evraz Group
SA HK1q.L will buy Oregon Steel Mills OS.N of the United
States in a $2.3 billion deal creating the world's largest rail
producer and giving Evraz access to lucrative U.S. markets.  Evraz, 41 percent owned by Russia's richest man, Roman
Abramovich, said on Monday its cash offer was 22.3 percent above
Oregon's weighted average stock price for the past three months.  "The premium that we paid accounted for the growth in the
profitability pattern of Oregon Steel," Evraz Chief Financial
Officer Pavel Tatyanin told Reuters, saying the U.S. company had
posted record-high operating margins this year.  The combined company would produce 16.8 million tonnes a
year of crude steel, placing it just outside the world's top 10,
and will ship 17.4 million tonnes of steel products in 2006.  Russian steel makers including Severstal ( CHMFq.L ) ( CHMF.MM )
and NLMK ( NLMKq.L ), backed by some of the country's richest men,
have moved to acquire assets in the United States and Europe to
supply high-quality steel used in cars and construction.  Evraz, Russia's biggest steel maker in its home market, will
supply slabs to be rolled into steel plate at Oregon's mills.
The U.S. firm also produces steel pipes, giving Evraz access to
North American oil and gas markets.  A source familiar with the deal said Evraz had secured
financing in the form of a bridge loan from investment banks
Credit Suisse and UBS, which it is likely to refinance with bank
debt and bonds on the U.S. subsidiary's balance sheet.  Credit Suisse advised Evraz on the deal.  
  EXPENSIVE  Alfa-Bank analysts said Oregon was the most expensive steel
maker in the United States in terms of enterprise value to
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.  The deal would dilute Evraz's value, Alfa Bank said, as the
Russian firm was paying 6.6 times EV/EBITDA for Oregon -- more
than a 50 percent premium to its own EV/EBITDA.  "However, in the long run we believe Evraz may generate
value from the acquisition through downstream diversification,"
the bank said.  Oregon's board of directors unanimously recommended that
shareholders approve the offer from Evraz, which will open
during the week of Nov. 27, subject to regulatory clearances.  "The acquisition of Oregon Steel represents a solid platform
for Evraz as a footprint in North America, one of the most
important markets globally," Evraz Chairman Alexander Frolov
said.  Moscow brokerage Aton said in a research note: "The fact
that the transaction looks a bit overvalued comes as no
surprise, given the potential synergies that could be generated
and the generally increasing asset values."  Tatyanin said Oregon was preparing to start a new pipe mill
in the city of Portland to complement existing steel pipe
production in Canada and Colorado.  In steel plate, Evraz had boosted its share of the European
market to 10 percent with the acquisitions of Vitkovice Steel in
the Czech Republic and Palini e Bertoli in Italy, Tatyanin said.  "In Europe, we bought assets that were complementary to our
exports of semis. You should view Oregon Steel in the same
pattern," he said.  But Tatyanin said mergers between Russia's top steel makers
were unlikely in the near future.  "For the time being, Russian companies have their own
strategies," he said. "It's unlikely that you will see team-ups
on the Russian front in the short to medium term. More
developments will come from the international scene."
 (Additional reporting by  Mathieu Robbins  in London)


