-- Accused JFK Airport Plotter Was a `Homegrown Extremist,' Prosecutor Says
-- Thom Weidlich
-- 2010-07-26T21:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/accused-jfk-airport-plotter-was-homegrown-extremist-prosecutor-says.html

          
          
             An ex-airport employee accused of
plotting to blow up fuel lines and tanks at New York’s  John F.
Kennedy International Airport  was a “homegrown extremist,” a
prosecutor said in closing arguments at his terrorism trial.  
 “The years  Russell Defreitas  spent in this country have
been years of quiet, seething rage,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Zainab Ahmad told jurors in federal court today in Brooklyn, New
York. “Russell Defreitas gave voice to that anger by devising a
plot to blow up JFK.”  
 Defreitas , a former Evergreen Airlines cargo worker, and
 Abdul Kadir , a citizen of Guyana who served in that country’s
parliament, are charged with participating in a plot hatched in
January 2006. They circulated their plan to an international
network of Muslim extremists, the government alleges.  
 The attacks were designed to destroy “the whole of
Kennedy,” the largest airport in the New York City area,
Defreitas said in a taped conversation played for the jury. The
plot was foiled in the planning stages with the aid of an
informant, according to prosecutors.  
 The trial of Defreitas, 67, a U.S. citizen and native of
Guyana, and Kadir began June 30 with opening statements. The
jury is scheduled to begin its deliberations tomorrow. The two
men face life in prison if convicted.  
 “Russell Defreitas is a man with a small mind, a big mouth
and an ugly imagination,” Mildred Whalen, one of his lawyers,
told jurors today. “Those are character flaws, not crimes.”  
 Pushed to Plot  
 Whalen said the government informant, Steven Francis,
pushed Defreitas to pursue the plot, and without him Defreitas
wouldn’t have been able to conduct surveillance of the airport.  
 Defreitas was “a man who takes what’s on offer,”
including an apartment the government paid for and rides from
Francis “all over New York City,” Whalen said.  
 The moment Defreitas and Kadir agreed to destroy the
airport, they became guilty of conspiracy, and their actions
after the fact show they were serious and determined, Ahmad
said.  
 She played tapes in which Kadir instructed Defreitas to get
images of the airport from Google Inc.’s Earth mapping service
and said he would try to connect him with Abu Bakr for funding
and support. Abu Bakr is the head of Jamaat Al Muslimeen, which
staged a coup attempt in Trinidad in 1990.  
 Ahmad said the plotters wanted to get to Abu Bakr to meet
“a seasoned terrorist,” Adnan G. El Shukrijumah, who is wanted
in connection with possible terrorist threats against the U.S.
and who is a member of al-Qaeda, the Muslim terrorist group led
by  Osama bin Laden .  
 Failure to Connect  
 “Lucky for us, the plotters never found Shukrijumah,”
Ahmad said.  
 The mention of Shukrijumah underscores the absurdity of the
charges, said Whalen, Defreitas’s lawyer.  
 “At this point it’s clear that these guys have seen too
many  Bruce Willis  movies and don’t have enough to do with their
time,” she told the jurors. “When does stupid, ugly talk
become a conspiracy to commit a crime?”  
 Defreitas could be heard on tape boasting that he worked
20 years at Kennedy, when he worked there only three years, and
complaining that he loaded U.S. weapons bound for Israel, when
there was testimony that no such weapons are shipped from
Kennedy, Whalen said.  
 Ahmad told the jurors that Kadir’s testimony that he never
agreed to be part of the plot and was hoping to “rehabilitate”
the others wasn’t credible.  
 Kadir’s Role  
 Kadir agreed to let the plotters keep money for the plan in
one of his bank accounts and advised Francis to be careful with
a Google Earth printout of the airport on a trip to Trinidad
with Defreitas to try to meet Bakr, the prosecutor said.  
 “Kadir gives Steven Francis good advice because he wants
the plot to succeed,” she said.  
 No evidence was introduced to show that Kadir ever
contacted anyone on behalf of the alleged plotters, including
Bakr or Shukrijumah, and the money would go into his account for
his mosque, not a terror plot, Kafahni Nkrumah, a lawyer for
Kadir, told the jurors today.  
 When Kadir mentioned Google Earth to the others, he hadn’t
yet been told of the JFK plot, Nkrumah said.  
 “Abdul Kadir at no time ever had the intent to join this
conspiracy,” Nkrumah said. “Abdul Kadir at no time ever
assisted Steven Francis or Russell Defreitas in advancing the
objectives of this conspiracy.”  
 A third defendant,  Kareem Ibrahim , a citizen of Trinidad,
was granted a separate trial at a later date due to a medical
condition. Abdel Nur, a citizen of Guyana, pleaded guilty June
29 to one count of providing support to terrorists.  
 The case is U.S. v. Defreitas, 07-cr-00543, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in Brooklyn, New York,
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        