-- Afghan President Karzai Says NATO Rocket Attack Killed 52 Civilians Friday
-- Eltaf Najafizada
-- 2010-07-26T17:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/afghan-president-karzai-says-nato-rocket-attack-killed-52-civilians-friday.html

          
          
             Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  said
NATO forces were responsible for the deaths of 52 civilians in
an attack on a village in the southern province of Helmand.  
 Afghan women and children were among those killed on July
23 when North Atlantic Treaty Organization-led troops launched a
rocket attack on a house in the village of Rigi in the Sangin
district of Helmand, Karzai said in a statement issued by his
office in Kabul today. He cited reports by the National
Directorate of Security for the incident.  
 Lt Comdr. Katie Kendrick, a spokeswoman for NATO’s
 International Security Assistance Force  in Afghanistan, rejected
Karzai’s version of events. While ISAF forces did conduct an
operation in Sangin district, it was “far from the village,”
where ISAF had “no operational activity,” Kendrick said in an
interview.  
 ISAF is investigating the alleged civilian deaths, Carmen
Romero, a spokeswoman at NATO headquarters in Brussels, said by
phone. She said she had nothing to add to a statement issued by
NATO on July 24 disputing “media allegations” of civilian
deaths, saying that it had “no operational reporting that
correlates to this alleged incident.”  
 President  Barack Obama  took office last year vowing to
reduce civilian deaths in Afghanistan even as he committed more
troops to the fight against Taliban insurgents in what is now
the longest U.S. war in history. Afghan police said July 7 that
at least five Afghan soldiers died in a “friendly fire” strike
by NATO aircraft, as the troops were preparing to ambush Taliban
guerrillas.  
 The July 23 incident also involved combat between NATO
forces and Taliban fighters, Shamsullah Sarayee, a tribal elder
in Sangin district, said by telephone today.  
 People in the village “tried to save their lives” by
sheltering in a house, he said. More than 50 civilians died when
a rocket struck the building in which they were taking cover, he
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul, Afghanistan at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        