-- Afghan, Pakistan Leaders Warned by U.S. in Advance of Leaked War Documents
-- Peter S. Green
-- 2010-07-26T20:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/afghan-pakistan-leaders-warned-by-u-s-in-advance-of-leaked-war-documents.html

          
          
             Afghan, Pakistani and Indian
officials received advance notice from the U.S. that media in
the U.S. and Europe were about to publish leaked American
military  documents  about the war in Afghanistan, State
Department Spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said.  
 Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  and Pakistani President  Asif Ali Zardari  were briefed by the U.S. ambassadors in their
countries, and senior Pakistani officials met two nights ago
with Admiral  Michael Mullen , the top U.S. military commander,
Crowley told reporters today in Washington.  
 “We wanted to make sure they understood the context under
which these documents would be released, that this was the
result of a leak of classified documents, not sanctioned,
authorized by the United States government,” Crowley said.
“The briefing was, in fact, to help them understand that this
represents a crime and that we are investigating it.”  
 The leak won’t affect U.S. relations with Afghanistan and
Pakistan or their relations with each other, Crowley said. He
noted that Secretary of State  Hillary R. Clinton  met with Afghan
and Pakistani leaders last week.  
 The reports, on the website  Wikileaks.org , allege in part
that Pakistan’s main intelligence agency is secretly aiding the
Taliban and allied Islamic militant rebels whom the U.S. is
trying to defeat, according to the New York Times, the London-
based  Guardian  and the German magazine  Der Spiegel , which say
Wikileaks gave them weeks of access to the documents.  
 ‘Several Years Old’  
 The documents reflect the war as it was run from 2005 to
2009, Crowley said, largely during the presidency of  George W. Bush .  
 “Most of these documents are several years old and may
well reflect situations and conditions and circumstances that
have either been corrected already or are in the process of
being corrected,” he said.  
 The administration of President  Barack Obama , which took
office in January 2009, has enacted its own Afghanistan
strategy, Crowley said.  
 “We think that we have put in place over the past several
months a strong foundation of working with Pakistan, working
with Afghanistan, and the situation that we confront today is
different than the one we confronted two, three, four years
ago,” he said.  
 “We feel that Pakistan at the leadership level is committed
to root out” the Taliban and al-Qaeda, “to eliminate these
safe havens, and in doing so, eliminate, direct or indirect
support for those engaged in violent extremism, which threatens
Pakistan itself,” Crowley said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter S. Green  in Washington at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        