-- After African Education, Some Baltimore Youths Soar While Others Struggle
-- 
-- 2010-07-26T00:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/after-african-education-some-baltimore-youths-soar-while-others-struggle.html

          
          
              
By Jessica Anderson
     July 26 (Washington Post) -- Nearly eight years ago, its
last class of students left the streets of Baltimore for an
education in Africa that was meant to change the course of their
lives. Yet the uneven legacy of the Baraka School continues to
unfold.
     This month, one of the young men, Romesh Vance, featured in
the well-regarded documentary "The Boys of Baraka" stood before a
judge in a courtroom, where he was indicted on federal
drug-conspiracy charges.
     Other former Baraka students have been gunned down, joined
gangs and followed a path the school tried to lead them away
from.
     "Every child is unique in their situation," said Robert C.
Embry, president of the Abell Foundation, which funded the
experimental school. "The child was somewhere else for the years
before Baraka. You can't replace those 12 years. All you can do
is try and make things better."
     Life for many Baraka alumni did get better.
     One started a clothing business after returning from Baraka.
Another is a counselor at the Center for Talented Youth in Los
Angeles. De'Von Brown, a Baraka alumnus, is a rising junior at
the Maryland Institute College of Art studying film production.
     "It was such a great experience," said Brown, 20, who is
making a documentary this summer about murals in Baltimore. "I
think seeing the world is important to the development of a
person."
     The program, which began in 1996, took about 20
disadvantaged middle school-age boys each year to a boarding
school in Kenya, where for two years, they were immersed in
activities meant to improve their social skills and academic
performance.
     The Baraka School was forced to close in 2003 because of
political unrest in Kenya, sending the boys back into the
Baltimore school system after facing different obstacles in the
Kenyan outback.
     Besides removing the boys from their troubled neighborhoods
and providing them with a unique opportunity abroad, Embry said,
the school raised the boys' academic achievement.
     According to a 2002 evaluation of the Baraka School prepared
for the Baltimore school board, state test results showed that
before attending Baraka, the students had a cumulative passing
rate of 63.2 percent in reading and 26.3 percent in math. After
Baraka, the boys had cumulative passing rates of 84.2 percent and
42.1 percent.
     More recently, the Abell Foundation reported that as of June
of last year, of the 89 students who had completed the Baraka
program, 44 received high school diplomas and 11 received GEDs.
The 62 percent graduation rate is near the overall graduation
rate for city school students. The foundation did not have
current records on the number of Baraka students who went on to
college.
     But for all of the school's successes, some students
remained out of reach.
     Vance, a member of Baraka's last class, made his initial
appearance in federal court this month for charges related to the
distribution of heroin and crack cocaine in and around the Gilmor
Homes public housing complex in West Baltimore.
     On his court date, no family members showed up. With his
arms clasped behind his back, Vance stood next to his public
defender, raising his head to answer "yes, sir," to U.S.
Magistrate Judge James K. Bredar.
     When Vance returned from Kenya, he moved out of his mother's
house to live with a friend and began skipping school.
     "I believe he was a really good child," said Tynette
Robinson, 41, who took Vance into her home when he was 14. She
said Vance's father was imprisoned most of his life, and as for
his mother, "he never wanted to stay with her."
     The school "didn't do nothing for him," Robinson said. "He
needed love from his mother. He could've done better, though. He
was real intelligent."
     Brown, the MICA film student who was also a member of the
last Baraka class, gives the school credit for changing his life,
but he is confident that he would have been successful even if he
had not attended.
     After middle school, Brown went on to graduate from the
Academy for College and Career Exploration in Hampden, Md., where
he thrived. He became the student class president and led a
protest against school uniforms. Brown said that he didn't mind
the uniforms but that he had to side with his constituents.
     But it was through the release of the Baraka documentary
that Brown began to make contacts in the industry, as well other
connections, including Maryland first lady Katie O'Malley. At the
time, O'Malley, who was handling truancy issues as a juvenile
judge, invited Brown to join her as she made her rounds speaking
to the young offenders. Brown began passing out his contact
information, encouraging kids to give him a call.
     "A lot of times, people in the city get caught up in the 'I
have a drug-addicted mother' . . . or whatever," said Brown, who
faced similar circumstances. "I try to inspire them to be better.
I keep it real. I tell them that society wants them to fail" but
that in the end, "it's up to them."
     Mary Humes, 66, Brown's grandmother, who scolds him for
texting on his phone during a conversation, said, "He has grown
up mature, dependable. The world is De'Von's. Whatever he wants,
I know he can accomplish it."
     When Brown was 4, he and his siblings moved into their
grandmother's rowhouse after his drug-addicted mother could no
longer care for them. As a child, he was a self-described class
clown who often got kicked out of class.
     "He was spending more time outside of classrooms instead of
inside," Humes said. "He liked attention."
     But one day, the young teen came into the house yelling,
"Grandma, you've got to send me to Africa," she said.
     She was unsure about the program, but she worried about her
grandson's future even more.
     Brown said that not only did he learn discipline at the
Baraka school, but he and the other boys also were treated "just
as kids," without pressure from other people.
     And now, he's finishing school and doing marketing for
Taharka Brothers ice cream, a business that hires young men to
help teach them entrepreneurship skills. Brown said he hopes to
score internships in Los Angeles to prepare for his film career,
and he's considering running for public office. "I'll be like
Arnold Schwarzenegger," he said jokingly.
     Although his experience at the Baraka school and being a
part of the documentary have helped open doors for him, Brown
said, he still would have become a college graduate.
     "I'd be another kid doing well," he said, but "overlooked --
the city has a lot of those kids."
 
          
          


  


        