-- Taiwan's Tsais in Talks to Buy Kbro Cable TV to Work Around State Rules
-- Tim Culpan
-- 2010-07-26T09:23:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/taiwan-s-tsai-family-buys-kbro-cable-for-2-billion-economic-daily-says.html

          
          
             Taiwan’s  Daniel  and  Richard Tsai 
are in talks to buy cable TV operator Kbro Co. from Carlyle
Group after government regulations delayed a deal for Taiwan
Mobile Co., which they control, to buy the company.  
 “This is the direction we are heading and this is the
option we are exploring with Carlyle,”  Daniel Tsai , vice
chairman of Taipei-based Taiwan Mobile said today. He denied
an Economic Daily News  report  today that his family had
completed a deal to buy Kbro for NT$65 billion ($2 billion).  
 Taiwan Mobile, the country’s second-largest  phone
operator , hasn’t won government approval after agreeing to
buy Kbro in September last year for NT$32.8 billion in stock
and cash, and the assumption of NT$24 billion in debt. Buying
Kbro directly may allow the Tsai family to work around a law
that prevents government ownership of media, Tsai said today.  
 Tsai declined to comment on the value of the deal or
whether his family may set up a separate company to make the
transaction.  
 Taiwan Mobile is minority owned by the  Taipei City
Government , meaning the carrier can’t buy Kbro under the
current rules.  
 The acquisition of Kbro, with 1.7 million subscribers,
would allow Taiwan Mobile to pass China Network Systems Inc.,
controlled by MBK Partners Ltd, and Taiwan Broadband
Communications, owned by Macquarie Media Group, to become the
largest operator on the island, where more than 80 percent of
homes use cable TV.  
 Fubon Holding  
 Fubon Financial Holding Co. , whose board is chaired by
Daniel Tsai, is the largest shareholder in Taiwan Mobile,
which is chaired by his brother Richard Tsai, through its
units including Fubon Securities Co. and Fubon Life Insurance
Co., according to the Taipei-based phone operator’s  website .
Fubon is 14 percent  owned  by the Taipei City Government after
Fubon bought the municipality’s Taipei Bank in 2002.  
 The National Communications Commission is in talks with
the Cabinet to allow government-related entities to
indirectly own as much as 10 percent of media companies,
Commissioner Lee Ta-sung said in April.  
 Taiwan Mobile declined to comment in a statement today,
saying it’s a private matter involving the Tsai family. The
deal would have no effect on Taiwan Mobile’s credit or
capital, it said.  Dorothy Lee , a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman
for Carlyle, declined to comment today.  
 Washington-based Carlyle, the world’s second-largest
buyout firm, bought control of Eastern Multimedia, which
included the cable TV unit that was renamed Kbro, for $1.5
billion in 2006.  
 Taiwan Mobile shares have climbed 21 percent since Sept.
16, when the Kbro acquisition was announced, to close at
NT$63.30 today in Taipei, outpacing a 4.7 percent advance in
the benchmark  Taiex index  in the period.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Culpan  in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        