-- All-Star Chris Paul Says He Hopes to Help New Orleans for `Many Years'
-- Barry Rothbard
-- 2010-07-26T18:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/all-star-chris-paul-says-he-hopes-to-help-new-orleans-for-many-years-.html

          
          
             Chris Paul  said he was pleased with
the direction the New Orleans Hornets are taking after meeting
today with top management of the National Basketball Association
team.  
 Paul, the Hornets’ 25-year-old point guard and a three-time
All-Star, met with coach  Monty Williams , General Manager Dell
Demps and team President Hugh Weber to discuss the team’s
future.  
 The meeting in New Orleans followed a report last week on
CBSSports.com that Paul would ask to be traded. Demps told the
 Times-Picayune  of New Orleans that Paul didn’t request a trade,
and Paul said the meeting “went well.”  
 “I expressed my desire to win, and I like what they said
about the direction that they want to take the team,” Paul said
in a statement issued by the Hornets. “I have been a Hornet my
entire career and I hope to represent the city of New Orleans
and state of Louisiana for many years to come.”  
 CBSSports.com reported last week that Paul “wants out” of
New Orleans, citing an unidentified person. The report stated
that Paul “wants to play with another superstar. He wants to
follow LeBron’s model of teaming up with other great players.”  
 Paul left the sports agency Octagon this month and signed
with the Creative Arts Agency’s  Leon Rose , who also represents
 LeBron James . He also recently joined James’s marketing company,
LRMR, which is run by James’ adviser, Maverick Carter. James,
the two-time reigning NBA Most Valuable Player, jumped as a free
agent this month to the Miami Heat, joining fellow All-Stars
 Dwyane Wade  and  Chris Bosh .  
 According to a report on ESPN on July 22, the New York
Knicks topped Paul’s list of desired destinations, with the
Orlando Magic second.  
 Paul will make $13.5 million this year and is under
contract with the Hornets for the next two seasons. The Hornets
failed to make the playoffs last season, and Paul played in 45
games before season-ending surgery for a torn meniscus in his
left knee.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Barry Rothbard  in New York at 
 brothbard@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        