-- Almatis, Tribune, AbitibiBowater, GSI: Bankruptcy
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2010-07-26T21:32:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/almatis-tribune-envirosolutions-abitibibowater-dreier-gsi-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             Almatis BV, a producer of specialty
alumina products, filed an agreement on July 23 underpinning a
revised reorganization plan that will allow the Chapter 11 case
to end consensually and avoid a protracted battle between senior
and junior secured creditors.  
 The new plan is supported by holders of more than two-
thirds of the second-lien debt. They include affiliates of
Babson Capital Management LLC, Alcentra Group Ltd. and Permira
Advisers LLP. There will be a hearing on Aug. 3 in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in  New York  where Almatis hopes the judge will
approve the plan-support agreement.  
 The new plan will pay first-lien creditors in cash, in full
with interest, on $676 million they are owed. Second-lien
lenders, who previously were to receive almost nothing, now are
in line to take home 52 million euros ($67.1 million) in new
senior unsecured notes, plus warrants if the notes aren’t fully
paid in five years. The notes will be issued by the holding
company that will directly own the operating companies.  
 The original plan called for senior secured creditors led
by an affiliate of Oaktree Capital Management LLC to take
ownership in exchange for debt, leaving second-lien creditors
with warrants for 3 percent of the equity value above $325
million. The disclosure statement for the original plan
projected that junior lenders would recover 2.2 percent. The
senior lenders were projected to have a 78 percent to 87 percent
recovery under the first plan.  
 Junior lenders opposed the original plan, contending the
reorganized company would be worth more than the $540 million
the company was claiming at the time.  
 The new plan is to be financed in part with a $100 million
investment from the owner, Dubai International Capital LLC. In
addition, there will be a $50 million revolving credit, $400
million in senior secured notes and 110 million euros in senior
secured notes.  
 Mezzanine lenders, owed $199 million, are now to receive 35
percent of the common stock in the holding company that will be
ultimate owner of the operating company, plus $14.6 million in
junior preferred stock of the top-tier holding company. Junior
mezzanine lenders, owed $88.1 million, are to have 4.9 percent
of the common stock and $2.1 million in junior preferred stock
in the ultimate holding company.  
 If the new notes for the second-lien lenders haven’t been
repaid in five years, they will start receiving warrants each
year until they have warrants for 12.5 percent of the stock of
the top-level holding company.  
 For its $100 million investment, Dubai International will
have 60 percent of the common stock and $50 million in pay-in-
kind preferred stock in the top-level holding company.  
 Almatis reported a $1.5 million net loss in June on revenue
of $17.8 million. Professional fees in the month were $931,000.
The company filed under Chapter 11 on April 30 with the original
plan already negotiated with holders of first-lien debt. Dubai
International bought the Almatis business in 2007 for $1.2
billion. For details on the original plan, click here for the
April 30 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 Almatis’ revenue in 2009 was $400 million. For 2010,
projected revenue is $534 million. Almatis began defaulting on
senior debt in June 2009.  
 Rotterdam-based Almatis listed total debt of $1.3 billion,
including $681 million on first-lien obligations, $77.7 million
on second-lien debt, and $200.6 million on mezzanine debt. There
is junior mezzanine debt of $80.6 million, plus trade debt of
$20 million. Assets were listed for $1.53 billion.  
 The case is In re Almatis BV, 10-12308, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York   Manhattan ).  
 Updates  
 Parts of Tribune Examiner’s Report Will Be Secret  
 Although the examiner for newspaper publisher Tribune Co.
will file his report today on the $13.8 billion leveraged buyout
in 2007 by Sam Zell, parts of the report won’t be made public
initially.  
 Kenneth N. Klee, the examiner, filed papers on July 23 in
bankruptcy court explaining how some of the information and
documents he obtained were received under confidentiality
agreements not allowing the documents or parts of his report to
be made public. Consequently, the entire unredacted report will
only be given at first to the judge and immediate parties in the
case.  
 The examiner scheduled an Aug. 9 hearing where he will ask
the judge to make public disclosure of his report, except parts
the judge believes are entitled to remain secret.  
 Klee said the entire report should be made public “as
expeditiously as possible.” To compose his report, Klee said he
received 4.3 million pages of documents that were contained on
150 compact discs, without an index.  
 Klee’s motion also asks the judge to discharge him and
prevent third parties from giving him subpoenas to produce
documents. Klee proposes that the documents he examined be given
to a third party electronic depository where the information
could be subject to subpoena under rules the bankruptcy judge
would establish.  
 The Chapter 11 plan proposes to resolve the fraudulent
transfer claims through a settlement opposed by some creditors.
The judge said the underlying merits of the claims must be
addressed at the confirmation hearing for approval of the plan.
The confirmation hearing is currently scheduled to begin on Aug.
30.  
 The plan, filed in April, is opposed by holders of $3.6
billion in pre-bankruptcy debt who announced their opposition
even before the settlement was formally disclosed. For details
of the plan, the proposed settlement, and the parties’
arguments, click here for the April 13 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  
 Tribune is the second-largest newspaper publisher in the
U.S. It listed $13 billion in debt for borrowed money and assets
of $7.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
December 2008. It owns the  Chicago  Tribune, Los Angeles Times,
six other newspapers and 23 television stations.  
 The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District  Delaware  (Wilmington).  
 EnviroSolutions Confirmed with Cramdown on Unsecured Creditors  
 EnviroSolutions Holdings Inc., a trash hauler and owner of
three landfills, has an approved reorganization plan given a
confirmation order signed by the bankruptcy judge on July 22.
The judge imposed a so-called cramdown on general unsecured
creditors with $9.6 million in claims who voted against the
plan.  
 First-lien creditors are receiving almost all of the new
stock plus an $85 million secured term loan in return for a $198
million term loan. The disclosure statement explaining the plan
projected a 77.8 percent recovery on the existing  term loan .  
 Second-lien lenders, owed $23.3 million, are receiving $1.4
million cash. Some of them objected to the plan.  
 The unsecured creditors’ committee believed the company is
worth more than the first-lien debt. The class voted against the
plan. The judge confirmed the plan over their objection and
“no” vote because he found that the reorganization gives them
more than they would receive through liquidation. The procedure
is known as cramdown.  
 The plan gives unsecured creditors about 10 percent in
cash.  
 Although the second-lien creditors might have received
nothing because the company was not worth enough to cover the
first-lien debt, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Stuart M. Bernstein
concluded that the plan didn’t discriminate against general
unsecured creditors. Bernstein determined that the recovery on
the second lien was “gift” from the first-lien creditors.  
 Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co., the holder of $41.7
million in subordinated notes, received warrants for 5 percent
of the stock.  
 The plan was negotiated with holders of 74.8 percent of the
first-lien debt.  
 Based in Manassas,  Virginia , EnviroSolutions had a $29.3
million net loss in 2009 on revenue of $134 million. It operates
in the mid-Atlantic states and the Northeast.  
 The case is In re EnviroSolutions of New York LLC, 10-
11236, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York
(Manhattan).  
 Centaur Files New Plan With Most Value to First Lien  
 Casino and racetrack operator Centaur LLC filed a revised
reorganization plan last week where holders of $405 million in
first-lien debt are slated to recover about 83 percent from a
combination of mostly new stock and debt. Holders of $207
million in second-lien debt are in line for a 1.4 percent
recovery, according to the disclosure statement filed along with
the plan.  
 Centaur and 12 affiliates filed Chapter 11 petitions in
March. Affiliates Centaur PA Land LP and Valley View Downs LP
filed for bankruptcy reorganization in October to keep alive a
project to develop a racetrack in  Pennsylvania . All the
companies are subsidiaries of closely held Centaur Inc., which
isn’t in bankruptcy.  
 The plan would distribute $115 million in new first-lien
debt to the existing senior secured creditors. The new debt
would be decreased by debt issued to finance the company after
bankruptcy. Those creditors also would receive almost all of
$155 million in new pay-in-kind notes, plus penny warrants for
most of the new stock. In addition, proceeds from the sales of
the Pennsylvania and  Colorado  properties would go the first-lien
debt holders.  
 If the class votes in favor of the plan, the holders of
second-lien debt would receive a share of $3 million in pay-in-
kind notes and recoveries from a litigation trust.  
 If they vote for the plan, unsecured creditors of Valley
View Downs with $61.2 million in claims are to have a 0.7
percent recovery from receiving a share of $400,000 in new pay-
in-kind notes and some recoveries by the litigation trust. Other
general unsecured creditors, for their $17.2 million in claims,
are to have a share of the litigation trust.  
 The disclosure statement says that the equity of the
reorganized company will have a value between $30 million and
$90 million.  
 Centaur has a July 28 hearing for approval of auction and
sale procedures for the Fortune Valley Hotel & Casino 40 miles
west of Denver. The initial bid will come from Luna Gaming
Central City LLC. The price is $7.5 million cash plus a $2.5
million note, less adjustments.  
 The March filings listed assets of $584 million and debt of
$681 million. The newer cases resulted from the failure to make
payments due in October on a $382.5 million first-lien debt and
a $192 million second-lien credit. The companies have horse
racing and gambling facilities in five markets in  Indiana  and
Colorado. They were developing a property in Pennsylvania to be
called  Valley View Downs & Casino , 55 miles from Pittsburgh.  
 The companies own Hoosier Park, a casino and horse
racetrack, in Anderson, Indiana, along with three offtrack
betting parlors in Indiana. In addition, they own Fortune Valley
Hotel & Casino in Central City, Colorado, which has a 118-room
hotel to complement the casino. The companies generated revenue
of $277.5 million in 2009.  
 The newer case is Centaur LLC, 10-10799, and the first case
was In re Centaur PA Land LP, 09-13760, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Abitibi Expanding Eligible Buyers in Rights Offering  
   AbitibiBowater Inc ., the largest newsprint maker in  North
America , is amending the commitment agreement for the $500
million rights offering to permit creditors of a Bowater
financing subsidiary to buy stock if their claims are eventually
approved. The hearing to approve the amendment is scheduled for
July 30.  
 The company’s proposed reorganization plan is financed in
part by an offering to sell $500 million in convertible notes.
There is a backstop agreement where some creditors agreed to buy
the notes if eligible creditors don’t. The backstop commitment
was approved in June.  
 In addition to allowing creditors of the Bowater subsidiary
to purchase in the offering, the terms will be changed to create
so-called oversubscriptions rights were securities not purchase
could be bought by creditors other than the backstop parties.  
 The amendment will also extend the deadline for approval of
the disclosure statement until Aug. 6. A hearing is now set for
July 30 where Abitibi hopes the bankruptcy judge will approve
the disclosure statement explaining the plan. Creditors can’t
vote until the disclosure statement is approved.  
 The disclosure statement tells creditors of each of the
more than 30 affiliated companies how much they could recover.
For details about the plan, click here for the May 25 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  
 AbitibiBowater was formed in October 2007 through a merger
between Montreal-based Abitibi-Consolidated Inc. and Greenville,
South Carolina-based Bowater Inc. Abitibi is a producer of
newsprint, uncoated mechanical paper and lumber. Bowater also
makes newsprint along with papers, bleached kraft pulp and
lumber. The Montreal-based company began reorganizing with 24
pulp and paper mills plus 30 wood-product plants. Revenue in
2008 was $6.8 billion. In Chapter 11 petitions filed in April
2009, the combined AbitibiBowater companies listed assets of
$9.9 billion and debt totaling $8.8 billion as of Sept. 2008.  
 The case is AbitibiBowater Inc., 09-11296, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Pacifica Studios Aims to Stop Foreclosure of Owners  
 Pacifica Mesa Studios LLC, the owner of a movie studio in  Albuquerque , New Mexico, sought Chapter 11 protection on July 20
and the next day filed papers in bankruptcy court to block the
second-lien lender from foreclosing the ownership interest held
by Dana Arnold and Hal Katersky.  
 The studio, known as Albuquerque Studios or ABQ Studios,
has an $84 million first mortgage owing to Longview Ultra I. The
second mortgage, for $23 million, is held by Workers Realty
Trust II LP.  
 Pacifica contends that a subordination agreement between
the two lenders prevents Workers from taking any action to
collect on the second-mortgage so long as the first mortgage is
in default. Pacifica wants the bankruptcy judge to rule that the
subordination agreement precludes Workers from foreclosing the
ownership interest held by Arnold and Katersky.  
 Pacifica believes that the property is worth $54 million
and that Workers therefore is “out of the money.”  
 The case is In re Pacifica Mesa Studios LLC, 10-18827, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Central District  California  (Woodland Hills).  
 Dreier Trustees Make Settlement for Lawsuit Proceeds  
 The bankruptcy trustees for convicted lawyer Marc Dreier
and the firm he founded, Dreier LLP, both claim ownership of
claims and lawsuits against third parties. The bankruptcy court
approved an agreement last week where the Chapter 11 trustee for
the firm will pay $200,000 in installments to Dreier’s
individual Chapter 7 trustee.  
 In return, the Chapter 11 trustee for the firm will receive
all proceeds from lawsuits against third parties based on
fraudulent transfers and preferences before bankruptcy.  
 The first recovery to be covered by the settlement between
the trustees involves Vertition Fund Management which agreed to
pay $9 million to the firm’s Chapter 11 trustee.  
 Vertition, which settled before being sued, received a
$13.5 million payment one month before the fraud surfaced. The
payment was on account of fraudulent notes that Vertition had
purchased. Although Vertition was owed money on account of the
notes that turned out to be fraudulent, bankruptcy law says that
a payment must be returned if it was made with money that was
stolen from someone else.  
 Vertition also agreed not to receive a distribution on a
claim unless another holder of a fraudulent note settles before
suit is filed and is given an approved claim.  
 The terms of the settlement also provide that no creditors
can sue Vertition based on dealings with Dreier and his firm.  
 The trustees’ claims against third parties arise from the
scheme where investors thought they were buying notes issued by
the Dreier firm’s clients. It turned out that the notes were
fraudulent.  
 Dreier pleaded guilty in May 2009 to charges of money
laundering, conspiracy, securities fraud and wire fraud in a
scheme that cost victims $400 million, prosecutors alleged. He
was also ordered to make $387 million in restitution.  
 The firm he founded once had 250 lawyers. It is being
liquidated in a Chapter 11 case begun in December 2008. Dreier
himself is now in a Chapter 7 liquidation.  
 The Chapter 11 case for the firm is In re Dreier LLP, 08-
15051, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York
(Manhattan). The criminal case is U.S. v. Dreier, 08-mag-2676,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).
The civil case is SEC v. Dreier, 08-cv-10617, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). Dreier’s
individual Chapter 7 case is 09-10371, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District New York (Manhattan).  
 Fight Scheduled Over Selling InterContinental Chicago Hotel  
 River Road Hotel Partners LLC, the owner of the
 InterContinental Chicago O’Hare  hotel near Chicago’s largest
airport, is scheduled for an Aug. 23 hearing on a motion for
approval of bidding procedures related to a sale opposed by the
secured lender.  
 Before a deadline in June, River Road filed a motion to set
up auction procedures where the first bid of $42 million would
come from an affiliate of Och-Ziff Real Estate Acquisitions LP.
The sale would be part of a Chapter 11 plan where more than $2
million of cash on hand would be used to pay expenses of the
Chapter 11 case.  
 Longview Ultra Construction Loan Investment Fund, the
secured construction lender owed $161 million, is opposing the
sale process and believes the plan can’t be confirmed.  
 Longview filed a motion last week asking the bankruptcy
judge to allow it to file a competing plan. The motion is also
on the calendar for Aug. 23.  
 River Road filed under Chapter 11 in August 2009 in Chicago
along with affiliate RadLAX Gateway Hotel LLC, the owner of the
Radisson hotel at Los Angeles International Airport. Both are
ultimately controlled by  Harp Group . The O’Hare property, opened
in September, listed $155 million in debt. The Radisson property
listed debt of $120 million.  
 The case is In re River Road Hotel Partners LLC, 09-30029,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  
 New Filings  
 Global Capacity Files in Delaware for Debt Conversion  
   Capital Growth Systems Inc ., known as  Global Capacity ,
filed a Chapter 11 petition on July 23 in Delaware to convert
debt into equity.  
 The Chicago-based provider of systems to integrate networks
had revenue of $64.4 million in 2009, resulting in a $52.8
million net loss including $12.5 million in charges for
impairment of goodwill. The first quarter of 2010 resulted in a
$2 million loss on revenue of $14.7 million. Revenue in the
quarter declined 10 percent from the same period in 2009.  
 Debt includes $5.2 million on a senior secured loan owing
to Pivotal Global Capacity LLC. There is another $38 million on
several issues of secured subordinated convertible debt, $4
million in unsecured notes, and $15 million owing to utilities.  
 The company said in a court filing that there is an
agreement on a reorganization plan with Downtown Capital and
some debenture holders who also will supply financing for the
Chapter 11 case.  
 The company said it filed in Chapter 11 when out-of-court
negotiations over 14 months were “unsuccessful.”  
 The case is In re Global Capacity Holdco LLC, 10-12302,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Reno’s Siena Hotel & Casino Files in Oakland, Calif.  
 Wild Game Ng LLC, the operator of the Italian-themed  Siena
Hotel Spa and Casino  in Reno,  Nevada , filed a bare-bones Chapter
11 petition on July 21 in Oakland, California.  
 The petition says debt exceeds $50 million. A court filing
lists Barney NG as the unsecured creditor with the largest
claim, $36.5 million. The filing says the debt is for “rent
payments.”  
 The hotel has 185 rooms and 29 suites, according to the
website. The casino covers 23,000 square feet.  
 By the day after filing, there were no papers on file in
bankruptcy court aside from the printed-form petition, a list of
creditors, and other form documents.  
 The case is In re Wild Game Ng LLC, 10-48272, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District California (Oakland).  
 Holiday Isle Condo on Dauphine Island Files in Mobile,  Alabama   
 Holiday Isle LLC , the developer of a seven-story beachfront
condominium on Dauphin Island, Alabama, filed a Chapter 11
petition on July 23 in Mobile, Alabama.  
 The filing was a so-called bare-bones petition with little
filed in court initially aside from the printed form petition
and a list of creditors. The attorney received a retainer of
$70,000.  
 The project has 144 units, according to the Web site.  
 The petition says assets and debt both exceed $50 million.  
 The case is In re Holiday Isle LLC, 10-03365, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District Alabama (Mobile).  
 Daily Podcast  
 Bankruptcy Releases, General Growth, Rangers: Audio  
 Why releases for third parties are popular in bankruptcy;
the bankruptcy judge lets go of a significant dispute regarding  General Growth Properties Inc .; whether the judge will cajole
the  Texas Rangers  baseball team to settling with lenders, and
being in Chapter 11 without being bankrupt are examined in the
new bankruptcy podcast on the Bloomberg terminal and
Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here.  
 Briefly Noted  
 GSI Group Consummates Plan, Exits Chapter 11 Reorganization  
   GSI Group Inc ., a provider of laser-based systems to aid
manufacturing, exited Chapter 11 by implementing the
reorganization plan last week that the bankruptcy court approved
in a May 27 confirmation order. Existing shareholders kept 86
percent of the stock. For details of the plan, click here for
the July 15 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 The original version of the plan and explanatory disclosure
statement were filed with the Chapter 11 petition in November.
The original plan was rejected by holders of 80 percent of the
stock. The petition in November listed assets of $555 million
and debt totaling $370 million. Bedford, Massachusetts-based GSI
had no substantial secured debt.  
 The case is In re MES International Inc., 09-14109, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Bank Failures  
 Seven Takeovers Bring Year’s Bank Failures to 103  
 Seven banks in seven states were taken over by regulators
on July 23, bringing total U.S. bank failures for the year to
103.  
 The failures will cost the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
an estimated $431 million.  
 To read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  
 There were 140 bank failures in 2009, five times more than
2008. The failures in 2009 were the most since 1992, when 179
institutions were taken over by regulators.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        