-- Manchester City Agrees on Terms With Mario Balotelli: Soccer Roundup
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-07-26T10:53:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/manchester-city-agrees-on-terms-with-mario-balotelli-soccer-roundup.html

          
          
             The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  
 Balotelli Headed for City  
 Inter Milan striker Mario Balotelli is set to join
Manchester City on a five-year deal for a transfer fee of as
much as 29 million pounds ($45 million), the  Daily Mail  said.  
 Balotelli, 19, told friends he’s agreed on a 65,000 pounds
a week contract at the Premier League club, the Mail said,
citing reports in Italy. The transfer will take City’s spending
this summer to close to 100 million pounds, the newspaper added.  
 Balotelli made his Inter Milan first-team debut under
current City manager  Roberto Mancini  two-and-a-half years ago.
He fell out of favor last season with fans and then-manager Jose
Mourinho.  
 Torres Targeted  
 Liverpool’s Fernando Torres remains a target for Mancini,
the  Daily Mirror  reported. The Spain striker, who is valued at
50 million pounds, has also sparked interested from Chelsea.  
 Ireland Out After Mancini Row  
 Stephen Ireland  will leave Manchester City after a row with
Mancini during the club’s trip to New York, the  Daily Mirror 
reported. The paper said Mancini is “not happy” with the
midfielder’s form.  
 N’Gog Wage Demands  
 Liverpool is finding it hard to sell French striker David
N’Gog because of his wage demands of 2 million pounds a year,
the  Daily Mirror  reported. The club has put him up for sale for
6 million pounds as it tries to raise more money to buy new
players.  
 Redknapp Keen on Keane  
 Tottenham Hotspur manager  Harry Redknapp  will name  Robbie Keane  in his 25-man Premier League squad even though he’s been
linked to both Fulham and Aston Villa, the  Daily Telegraph 
reported.  
 Keane, who joined Celtic on loan in January, scored the
opening goal for Tottenham in a 2-2 draw with Sporting Lisbon
during their summer campaign in New York.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        