-- Handle Cool Market's Hot Stocks With Great Care: John Dorfman
-- John Dorfman
-- 2010-07-26T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/handle-cool-market-s-hot-stocks-with-great-care-john-dorfman.html

          
          
             While the U.S. stock market has been
little changed for the past month, a few stocks have raced
ahead. Among them are a humble fertilizer maker and an online
reservation service whose pitch man is the former captain of the
starship USS Enterprise.  
 If you already own these stocks, should you let your
profits ride or cash in? And if you don’t own them, should you
jump onboard? The answers vary by company.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index , a fair gauge of the
overall U.S. market, gained about 1 percent in the 30-day period
that ended July 23. Meanwhile, fertilizer maker  CF Industries
Holdings Inc.  rose 21 percent.  
 Fertilizer stocks were the index’s  worst group  for the 12
months through June, down 36 percent. They have bounced back
strongly since June 30, even though fertilizer sales remain
unimpressive and profits anemic.  
 One reason is that fertilizer makers have been on the prowl
for acquisitions, and two big mining companies -- Australia’s
BHP Billiton Ltd. and Brazil’s Vale SA  -- have entered the
acquisition derby.  
 CF, based in Deerfield, Illinois, boasts a stronger balance
sheet than most of its rivals, with debt less than 1 percent of
stockholders’ equity. Its stock is selling at eight times
earnings, and looks attractive to me.  
 Priceline.com Inc.  also increased 21 percent in the past
month. The Norwalk, Connecticut, company helps consumers use the
Internet to book hotel rooms or make airline reservations at a
discount. Its services are advertised by  William Shatner , who
played Captain Kirk on the “Star Trek” TV series and now plays
lawyer Denny Crane on the show “Boston Legal.”  
 Priceline Rebounds  
 Priceline  stock  soared to almost $1,000 a share in 1999,
the year it went public. Then it collapsed, dropping to less
than $7 in 2002. Since then, it has been mostly on the upswing.
The shares closed Friday at about $229.  
 From 2006 through 2009,  Priceline  more than doubled its
revenue, to $2.3 billion from $1.1 billion. Detractors say the
stock is vulnerable because the company gets 36 percent of its
revenue from Europe (mainly the U.K. and the Netherlands), which
is in a slowdown.  
 I see little sign of a slowdown for Priceline. Its revenue
in the first quarter was a record for that period, and its
earnings of $1.06 a share were double the previous year’s
showing of 53 cents a share.  
 Beware the Unexpected  
 Would I buy the stock? No, I would run away from it at warp
speed because it is too pricey. Shares go for 30 times earnings,
more than eight times book value (corporate net worth) and more
than four times revenue. At those valuations, unpleasant
surprises can produce major tumbles.  
 Another strong performer is  Monsanto Co ., the largest seed
producer in the world. The St. Louis-based company genetically
engineers seeds for increased yield, disease resistance or a
speeded-up germination process. Monsanto sells both its seeds
and its genetic coding to customers, mostly large agribusiness
companies.  
 Among the factors boosting the shares 19 percent in the
past month were purchases by two  insiders . Chief Executive
Officer  Hugh Grant  bought 37,500 shares at about $52 each ,
spending about $2 million. In 2009 he was a significant seller
at higher prices.  
 Chief Financial Officer  Carl Casale  bought about 30,000
shares at about $52. He too, sold shares at higher prices last
year.  
 My Monsanto Moment  
 I can’t discuss Monsanto without gritting my teeth. I owned
the  stock , sold it in the bear market of 2002, and then watched
it rise 10-fold in about five years. Equally galling, I liked
the seed business, which was then just a portion of the
company’s story, and now dominates it.  
 Today, I regard Monsanto as a good company but a so-so
stock. Analysts estimate future earnings growth of about 11
percent a year, yet the stock sells for 23 times earnings. That
makes for an unattractive P/E-to-growth (or PEG) ratio of 2.1.
Many investors prefer a PEG ratio of about 1.0 or less.  
 Halliburton Co. , the top U.S. provider of onshore oilfield
services, saw its shares rise 19 percent in the past month. With
offshore drilling in trouble, at least for the moment,
Halliburton has benefitted from its strong onshore drilling
operations.  
 Adding Jobs  
 The Houston-based company reported profit of 53 cents a
share in the second quarter, its best showing since the third
quarter of 2008. It has just added 1,700 jobs.  
 For similar reasons,  Baker Hughes Inc. , another big driller
based in Houston, gained about 15 percent in the past month. My
own energy holdings are elsewhere, but I prefer Halliburton to
Baker Hughes, because its valuations are more modest -- for
example, 22 times earnings for Halliburton compared with 32 for
Baker Hughes.  
 Disclosure note: I have no long or short positions in the
stocks discussed in this week’s column, personally or for
clients.  
 ( John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in Boston,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        