-- Anglo Platinum Tempers Its Production Guidance on Weaker Economic Outlook
-- Carli Lourens
-- 2010-07-26T15:48:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/anglo-platinum-s-first-half-profit-jumps-by-12-on-increased-metal-prices.html

          
          
             Anglo Platinum Ltd. , the largest
producer of the metal, tempered its output plans for this year
and said it will raise production in 2011 to meet demand.  
 “The market outlook is positive and we aim to respond by
producing and selling more ounces,”  Neville Nicolau , chief
executive officer of the Johannesburg-based company, told
analysts and reporters in the city today. The global platinum
market is seen “erring on the deficit side,” Nicolau told
reporters on a call.  Anglo American Plc  controls the company.  
 The company will raise output to about 2.6 million ounces
next year after refining and selling 2.5 million ounces in 2010.
In April, Nicolau said the company may refine and sell as much
as 200,000 ounces more this year, depending on the economy.  
 Platinum, used in jewelry and anti-pollution devices for
vehicles, will probably trade at an average of at least $1,500
an ounce for the rest of the year, the company estimates. That
compares with an average of $1,586 so far this year. Anglo
produces about 40 percent of global output, which it mines in
South Africa, source of more than 90 percent of global reserves.  
 Automotive industry demand is “rebuilding” and jewelry
industry demand remains “healthy,” Anglo Platinum Commercial
Head  Sandy Wood  told analysts and reporters in Johannesburg.  
 Platinum declined along with copper, lead, zinc and other
metals in the second quarter as optimism over economic recovery
waned. The  Reuters/Jefferies Commodity Price Index  of 19 raw
materials is down 9.2 percent from a high in January this year.  
 Greek Crisis  
 “The Greek crisis did happen, the world economy did take a
bit of a downshift,” Nicolau said. Platinum is down 12 percent
at $1,547 an ounce in London from the year’s high of $1,756.25.  
 Nicolau plans to lift output in the second half even after
he cut 18,786 jobs and closed shafts to stem rising debt last
year following the metal’s 2008 tumble from a record $2,301.50
an ounce. He wants to boost production from 1.196 million ounces
of equivalent refined platinum in the first half to about 1.3
million in the second by lifting the rate at which workers mine.  
 Platinum’s recovery in the first half from a year earlier
boosted  Anglo Platinum ’s profit 12 percent to 3.27 billion rand
($441 million). The company received an average $1,593 an ounce
in the first half, 47 percent higher than a year earlier.  
 “Angloplats is still a shadow of its former self in
contributions into  Anglo American ’s accounts,” Ambrian Capital
Ltd. said in a note today. “A full recovery in Anglo Platinum’s
margin potential will be very beneficial for Anglo shareholders,
but requires further efficiency gains, stronger platinum group
metals basket price and/or a weaker rand.”  
 Share Price  
 Anglo Platinum rose 0.4 percent to 738 rand in Johannesburg
trading, for a 4.2 percent decline so far this year.  
 The company received a letter from the South African
government on July 21 stating its mining rights are in the
process of being renewed, it said today. The renewal “should
eliminate a key element of ‘administrative risk’ that in our
view has hung over Amplats’ shares over the last 2 years of
waiting,” London-based Liberum Capital Ltd. said in a note.  
 The company is the third Anglo American unit to report
first-half earnings. The  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd.  unit last week
posted net income of 6.5 billion rand and 45 percent-owned De
Beers will add $148 million to Anglo’s underlying earnings.  
 Anglo American will report underlying earnings of $1.83 a
share on July 30 for the first half, according to the median
estimates of five analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg. Anglo’s own
consensus forecast puts the figure at $1.73 a share.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        