-- `Jailbreaking' of IPhones to Add Apps Backed by U.S.
-- Adam Satariano
-- 2010-07-26T20:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/apple-iphone-users-have-u-s-blessing-to-jailbreak-add-own-applications.html

          
          
             Owners of  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone can
unlock the device to use applications not authorized by the
company, the U.S. Library of Congress said.  
 Librarian of Congress  James H. Billington  added the
practice, described in the ruling as “jailbreaking,” to a list
of actions that don’t violate copyright protections. The
decision affecting iPhones and other smartphones was posted
today on the agency’s website.  
 The library acted as part of a periodic review by its
copyright office, called for under a 1998 law, into whether
legal uses of technology were being blocked. The ruling was a
victory for Apple critics led by the Electronic Frontier
Foundation, a San Francisco-based privacy-rights group that
petitioned the library.  
 “Now people can go ahead and fix their phones and
jailbreak them so they can run all sorts of different
applications,”  Corynne McSherry , the group’s senior staff
attorney, said in an interview. “They can make full use of the
phone they bought without some kind of legal liability hanging
over their head.”  
 Apple  has sold  almost 60 million iPhones since its 2007
debut. The company’s App Store has more than 225,000
applications available for download. The process for inclusion
in the App Store has drawn criticism from some developers whose
material was rejected by the company.  
 The company based in Cupertino, California, says it
typically withholds approval of applications because they have
technical bugs or contain material such as pornography that the
company considers inappropriate.  
 ‘Great Experience’  
 “Apple’s goal has always been to ensure that our customers
have a great experience with their iPhone and we know that
jailbreaking can severely degrade the experience,”  Natalie Harrison , an Apple spokeswoman, said today in an interview. “As
we’ve said before, the vast majority of customers do not
jailbreak their iPhones as this can violate the warranty and can
cause the iPhone to become unstable and not work reliably.”  
 The Library of Congress also said in the filing posted
today that people don’t violate the law when they circumvent
copy protection on DVDs and extract short excerpts to create
new, noncommercial works.  
 The decision “unnecessarily blurs the bright line
established” in copyright law against circumventing technical
protection measures, said Elizabeth Kaltman, a vice president
with the  Motion Picture Association of America , in an e-mailed
statement. The Washington-based organization represents film
studios.  
 ‘Means Nothing’  
 The ruling affecting iPhones “absolutely means nothing as
a practical business matter” in part because it doesn’t require
any action by handset makers such as Apple,  Motorola Inc.  and
Nokia Corp.,  Daniel Ernst , an analyst at Hudson Square Research
in New York who doesn’t own Apple shares, said in an interview.
The Library of Congress findings don’t affect  AT&T Inc. , the
iPhone’s U.S. carrier, Ernst said.  
 Apple can update the iPhone’s systems to make it harder for
unauthorized applications to work on the device, Ernst said.  
 Apple may also use other laws to keep iPhones from being
modified, said Jason Schultz, co-director of the Samuelson Law
Technology and Public Policy Clinic at the University of
California, Berkeley.  
 “Having the copyright office side with the jailbreakers
doesn’t look good in court for Apple,” Schultz said in an
interview. “They will have to explain why the copyright office
is wrong.”  
 Making Margaritas  
 Jonathan Handel , an attorney for TroyGould in Los Angeles
specializing in entertainment and technology, said the decision
could open Apple to lawsuits against its practice of preventing
the use of certain software on its devices.  
 “When someone buys a kitchen blender, they don’t expect it
to refuse to make a margarita,” Handel said in an interview.
“And when they buy an iPhone, they don’t expect it to not run
reasonable software.”  
 In a filing with the Library of Congress during
consideration of the issue, Apple said exempting jailbreaking
would “destroy the technological protection of Apple’s key
copyrighted computer programs in the iPhone device itself and of
copyrighted content owned by Apple that plays on the iPhone.”  
 Apple fell 66 cents to $259.28 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Apple iPhone  
                       
                         
                           Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         iPhone 3GS made by Apple Inc. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     iPhone 3GS made by Apple Inc. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
