-- ArcelorMittal's Low-Price Ore Deal Returns to Haunt South African Economy
-- Mike Cohen
-- 2010-07-26T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/arcelormittal-s-low-price-ore-deal-returns-to-haunt-south-african-economy.html

          
          
             Anglo American Plc ’s threat to halt
cheap iron ore sales to  ArcelorMittal  in South Africa may close
a $1-billion steel mill, throw thousands out of work and
undermine the country’s growing car industry.  
 The dispute pits  Lakshmi Mittal , a man Forbes Magazine says
is worth $28.7 billion, against the government, which brokered
the below-price deal nine years ago to bolster steel production
and preserve jobs. Anglo’s  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd.  unit is seeking
to get a price closer to $142 per metric ton, the market level,
than to the $30 it says ArcelorMittal pays. An interim price and
arbitration agreed to last week end in 2011.  
 ArcelorMittal says a significant increase may force the
shuttering of the plant in Saldanha, curb exports and limit
supplies locally. Absent a resolution, such industries as car
manufacturing may have to turn increasingly to steel imports,
raising vulnerability to volatile exchange rates.  
 “In one corner sits one of the world’s richest men, and
for him to close Saldanha would be nothing,” said Hennie de
Clercq, executive director of the Pretoria-based Southern
African Institute of Steel Construction. “Where the elephants
play the grass usually gets trampled.”  
 Giles Read, a spokesman for ArcelorMittal in London,
referred requests for a response from Mittal, company chairman
and chief executive officer, to Vanderbijlpark-based
 ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd.  A spokesman there who declined
to be identified said in an email: "Should there be a decision
to close Saldanha, it would be made by the Board of Directors of
ArcelorMittal South Africa."  
 No Jobs Growth  
 “If there’s a shutdown, it’s probably going to have a
significant impact on overall manufacturing,” said Arthur Kamp,
an economist at Sanlam Investment Management in Cape Town.
“It’s not helpful to get job losses in an environment where
there is no real jobs growth.”  
 South African industries ranging from construction to
mining are dependent upon steel, much of it bought locally. The
country’s 25.2 percent  unemployment rate  is the highest of 62
nations monitored by Bloomberg.  
 Among the most affected industries may be the country’s car
and car-part makers, the biggest manufacturing exporters. South
African car exports rose 12-fold, to 174,947 units last year,
from 15,764 in 1995. Companies such as  Toyota Motor Corp . and
General Motors Co. make vehicles for local sales as well as for
shipment to Europe and elsewhere in Africa.  
 “The dispute is a source of concern to all users and all
buyers of South African produced steel and products,” Nico
Vermeulen, director of the National Association of Automobile
Manufacturers, said from Pretoria.  
 The rand was the most volatile of 16 major currencies over
the last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Government Deal  
 The foundations for the clash between the world’s biggest
steel company and  Anglo,  which in the 1960s controlled companies
that accounted for more than half of the market value of the
Johannesburg Stock Exchange, were laid in a 2001 deal brokered
by the government.  
 ArcelorMittal South Africa’s predecessor company, founded
by the state in 1928, was allowed to split its barely viable
steel assets away from profitable mines as long as the mining
company supplied iron ore at just above the cost of extraction.  
 Mittal first agreed to invest in the company, through his
own LNM Holdings NV company, in 2001. Later that investment was
transferred to ArcelorMittal, which has now built its stake in
the South African unit to 47 percent.  
 “The government was the midwife of this dispute,”  Peter Major , a fund manager at  Cadiz Holdings Ltd ., which oversees the
equivalent of $7 billion in investments, said from Cape Town.
“Only government can resolve it.”  
 Overseas Markets  
 Kumba, taken over by  Anglo  in 2003, used a loophole to
cancel the contract starting March 1. About 80 percent of its
iron ore is sold overseas and the company says it has
alternative markets for the rest as well.  
 At its peak ArcelorMittal South Africa’s forerunner, Iscor
Ltd., employed 70,000 people, seven times more than it does
today. The Saldanha mill is the largest business on South
Africa’s  barren west coast , and has the capacity to produce
steel sheet as thin as 1.6 millimeters (0.06 of an inch).  
 If it closes, thousands of families “will be without bread
on their table,” said Frank Mbanze, deputy mayor of the town of
Saldanha.  
 Kumba says it can abrogate the contract because
ArcelorMittal’s South African unit failed to renew mining rights
for its 21.4 percent stake in its biggest mine, Sishen.
ArcelorMittal says Kumba, as the controlling shareholder, should
have renewed the rights on its behalf.  
 Arbitration Period  
 The companies agreed on July 22 to undergo arbitration and
to maintain interim prices for a year, while ArcelorMittal holds
off on its threat to close Saldanha. Trade Minister  Rob Davies 
said the same day that he plans to be involved in the mediation
and expects the steelmaker to cut prices.  
 ArcelorMittal South Africa spokesman  Themba Hlengani 
declined to comment on the dispute, citing the arbitration,
while Kumba said it behaved “responsibly and reasonably.”  
 The steelmaker was expanded to shield South Africa from
sanctions during apartheid and to provide jobs, mainly to
working-class Afrikaners whose votes kept the whites-only
government in power.  
 Today the ArcelorMittal unit has a market value of about $5
billion, compared with the $150 million analysts valued it at in
2001.  
 ArcelorMittal hasn’t cut prices significantly below the
cost of imports, prompting several antitrust investigations. One
of them resulted in a record 692 million rand fine that was
successfully appealed. Those disputes may now count against it.  
 ArcelorMittal “never gave South Africa any break,” Major
said. The government will “say we gave you guys a hell of a
break and you just snubbed us.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Lakshmi Mittal, chairman and chief executive officer of ArcelorMittal. Photographer: Paolo Fridman  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
