-- Argentina Wins Federal Court Decision Blocking Turnover of Defaulted Bonds
-- Bob Van Voris
-- 2010-07-26T20:45:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/argentina-wins-federal-court-decision-blocking-turnover-of-defaulted-bonds.html

          
          
             Argentina  won a court decision that
keeps so-called vulture funds with judgments against the country
from gaining possession of bonds held in a Buenos Aires
government trust account.  
 U.S. District Judge  Thomas Griesa  in Manhattan ruled
against Aurelius Capital Partners LP and Blue Angel Capital I
LLC’s claim that the bonds in the trust were subject to U.S. law
because of the trust’s controlling documents. Griesa ruled July
23 that because the bonds are in Argentina he has no
jurisdiction over them.  
 “Because the Trust Bonds are not property ‘in the United
States’ of a foreign state, they are immune from attachment and
execution” under the  Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act , Griesa
ruled.  
 The plaintiffs, who own defaulted Argentine bonds held out
from a second restructuring last month, were seeking the
securities to collect on judgments awarded by Griesa since the
country’s debt default in December 2001.  
 The bonds in the account stemmed from a $42 billion
exchange in November 2001. Bondholders turned over their
securities in a swap for local Argentine loans, guaranteed by
the government and to be paid from dedicated tax revenue. Griesa
said Argentina has continued to meet its obligations under the
terms of the swap.  
 In his opinion, Griesa said he will consider a request to
lift injunctions the court issued in November 2009 preventing
Argentina from transferring the bonds until his decision on the
motion resolved in the July 23 opinion.  
 The case is Aurelius Capital Partners LP v. Argentina 07-
cv-2715, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        