-- Armani Is Luxury's `Odd One Out' as Second-Quarter Sales Falter
-- Andrew Roberts
-- 2010-07-26T11:34:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/armani-is-luxury-industry-s-odd-one-out-as-second-quarter-sales-falter.html

          
          
             Giorgio Armani SpA  struggled to win
customers in the past quarter, contrasting with a surge in sales
at luxury goods companies  Hermes International SCA  and Burberry
Group Plc.  
 “The past couple of months have been challenging,” Deputy
Chairman  John Hooks  said in a phone interview from New York. The
sales environment is tough in the U.S. and Europe, he said,
adding that only Asia, excluding Japan, is doing well. He
declined to provide more detail.  
 Armani’s designs may not currently be appealing to
customers who are willing to spend again after last year’s
contraction in luxury spending, said  Luca Solca , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein. Armani, whose products range from $32
Armani Exchange t-shirts to a $2,425 Giorgio Armani mono-lapel
women’s jacket, hasn’t updated its collections as frequently as
 Burberry  or innovated enough to justify its premium over fast-
fashion retailers such as Hennes & Mauritz AB.  
 The slowdown at closely held Armani shows how “the cool
factor shifts from one designer to another,” said Solca. “It’s
no secret that Mr. Armani is getting older and his focus on the
business may not be the same as it was 10 years ago.”  
 Giorgio Armani’s spring-summer 2010 men’s collection, which
featured velvet cargo pants and short tailored jackets, received
lukewarm reviews from critics. To win a more mainstream
audience, brands like  Dolce & Gabbana  and Marc Jacobs have been
toning down their collections, particularly in men’s wear, to
compete directly with Armani, according to Solca.  
 Milan-based Armani had sales of about 1.52 billion euros
($2 billion) last year and generated earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization of 218 million euros, the
company said July 12.  
 Continuing Momentum  
 Burberry, known for its plaid-lined trenchcoats, and Hermes,
the maker of Birkin bags that start at $7,000, both reported a
27 percent increase in sales in the period ended June 30. The
early read on autumn-winter 2010 collections, which arrived in
stores in June, is that momentum is continuing, Chief Financial
Officer  Stacey Cartwright  said July 13.  
 Analysts expect  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA , the
world’s largest maker of luxury goods, and PPR SA, the owner of
the Gucci brand, to post revenue growth when they report
earnings this week.  
 “Armani’s the odd one out,” Dennis Weber, an analyst at
Evolution Securities in London said, drawing a comparison with
LVMH and PPR, owner of the Gucci brand. “I’m expecting the big
boys to have a pretty good second quarter. The underlying demand
is there.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        