-- Marsh & McLennan Names Ian Lang Board Chairman, Replacing Stephen Hardis
-- Sarah Frier
-- 2010-07-26T14:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/marsh-mclennan-names-ian-lang-board-chairman-replacing-stephen-hardis.html

          
          
             Marsh & McLennan Cos. , the second-
biggest insurance brokerage, named U.K. legislator  Ian Lang  as
the next chairman of the board of directors.  
 Lang, 71, will become chairman in May when  Stephen Hardis ,
75, steps down because of the company’s retirement age, the New
York-based broker said today in a statement.  
 Marsh & McLennan gets about one-sixth of its  revenue  from
the U.K., almost the same amount as the rest of Europe. About
half the sales come in the U.S., where the insurance market has
been contracting as companies buy less coverage, forcing down
rates for policies.  
 A chairman with ties to the U.K. is “certainly a
positive,” said  Mark Dwelle , an analyst with RBC Capital
Markets who has a “sector perform”  rating  for Marsh &
McLennan. “They have a sizable presence in the London market
and work with Lloyds.”  
 Lang, who began his career as an insurance broker, is a
Conservative member of the House of Lords, the upper chamber of
the British  Parliament  where he is known as Lord Lang of
Monkton. He was a representative in the House of Commons for
Galloway and Upper Nithsdale from 1979 until 1997, when he lost
his seat. He served in the cabinet as president of the board of
trade and secretary of the state for trade and industry from
1995 to 1997.  
 Lang joined the Marsh & McLennan board in 1997. The company
keeps chairman and chief executive officer roles separate, it
said in today’s statement.  
 The No. 1 broker, Aon Corp., expanded in the U.K. with its
2008 purchase of Benfield Group Ltd. Chicago-based Aon also gets
about one-sixth of its revenue in the U.K.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Frier  in New York at 
 sfrier@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        