-- Hartford Asked By SEC Why Worst-Performing Investments Aren't Marked Down
-- Andrew Frye
-- 2010-07-26T20:20:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/hartford-asked-by-sec-why-worst-performing-investments-aren-t-marked-down.html

          
          
             Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. , whose investment losses in 2008 led to a U.S. bailout, was
asked by regulators to explain why it expects its worst-
performing holdings to rebound.  
 The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission instructed
Hartford to provide more details on $2.1 billion of securities
that have traded at less than half of what the company says
they’re worth for more than a year. The unrealized loss on these
investments, held by Hartford’s life insurance subsidiary,
totaled $1.5 billion as of Dec. 31, the SEC said in a letter to
the company dated April 13 and disclosed today.  
 “Please revise your disclosure to indicate the nature of
these securities and to explain why these unrealized losses,
which appear to be significantly greater than credit spreads in
the marketplace, are apparently not indicative of credit losses
and/or other-than-temporary impairment,”  Jim Rosenberg , senior
assistant chief accountant, said in the letter to  Glenn Lammey ,
chief financial officer of Hartford’s life insurer.  
 Life insurers  buy corporate debt and mortgage-backed
securities to fund obligations to policyholders that may take
decades to mature. When bond prices fall in the market, carriers
aren’t required to take losses if they expect the securities to
pay off over time.  
 “It’s certainly a yellow flag any time you’ve got that big
of a bucket of unrealized losses that you haven’t taken a charge
on,” said Jay Hanson, partner and national director of
accounting at McGladrey & Pullen LLP. “Investors gotta
question, ‘Are those just really charges waiting to happen?’”  
 No Intention to Sell  
 The insurer fell 3 cents to $23.40 at 4:01 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock is little changed
this year.  
 Hartford agreed to include more information on the
securities in its  quarterly filings , according to a  reply  from
the insurer to the SEC dated April 27. The holdings are
primarily commercial mortgage-backed securities and
collateralized debt obligations tied to commercial property and
have floating coupon rates, said Hartford, which is based in the
Connecticut city of the same name.  
 The drop in market prices reflects “market illiquidity and
risk premiums,” Hartford said. The company “has concluded that
no credit impairment exists for these securities. Furthermore,
the company neither has an intention to sell nor does it expect
to be required to sell these securities.”  
 Losses on the investments “may be significant” if
property values perform worse than the company expects, Hartford
said. The SEC told Hartford in a June 9 letter that it completed
its review. Such correspondence may be released about six weeks
after a review is closed. SEC questions about companies’
practice of writing down securities are “pretty common,”
Hanson said of McGladrey & Pullen.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Liam McGee  said in an interview
last month that he was looking for deals in the U.S. property
market amid “attractive pricing.” McGee was hired in October
to reduce risk at the insurer. In his first six months on the
job, he cut Hartford’s holdings of commercial mortgage bonds.  
 Hartford lost more than  $4 billion  in the five quarters
prior to McGee’s arrival. The insurer repaid its $3.4 billion
U.S. bailout in March.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        