-- Maruti Slumps Most in Year After Unexpected Decline in Profit on Royalties
-- Vipin V. Nair
-- 2010-07-26T11:08:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/maruti-suzuki-falls-in-mumbai-after-quarterly-profit-unexpectedly-declines.html

          
          
             Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. , the
nation’s biggest carmaker, slumped by a record in Mumbai after
first-quarter net income unexpectedly fell and at least five
brokerages, including Citigroup Inc., lowered their  ratings .  
 The Indian unit of  Suzuki Motor Corp.  declined 12 percent
to 1,195.45 rupees, the biggest drop since the shares began
trading in July 2003. Maruti was the worst performer in the
Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  and the  MSCI AC Asia
Pacific  Index today.  
 Maruti posted a 20 percent drop in  profit , the first
decline in five quarters, as it paid additional royalties to
Suzuki and the depreciation of the euro against the rupee hurt
repatriated income from its biggest export market. With the
Indian government lifting restrictions on the payments that can
be made to overseas partners from December, companies like
Suzuki may be able to charge more in the future, said a Mumbai-
based analyst.  
 “It’s a concern,” said  Ajay Shethiya , an analyst at
Centrum Broking Pvt. “Now it’s up to Suzuki to charge how much
royalty they want.”  
 Maruti, maker of one of two cars sold in India, paid 1.9
billion rupees ($41 million) in additional royalties to parent
Suzuki in the quarter, the company said without providing year-
ago details. The payment also included 650 million rupees of
charges due between Dec. 16 and March 31, Maruti said.  
 Cap Removal  
 India had capped the payment of royalty by local companies
to their overseas technology partners at 5 percent of domestic
sales and 8 percent of exports. Those caps were  removed  from
Dec. 16, according to the website of the Reserve Bank of India.  
 Maruti paid about 9,900 rupees per vehicle as royalty to
Suzuki in the fiscal year ended in March, Shethiya said. The
payment could rise to as much as 15,000 rupees this year, he
said. The company pays royalty on most of its models to Suzuki,
Shethiya said.  
 Maruti’s Chairman  R.C. Bhargava  declined to comment on the
royalty payments to Suzuki. Chief Financial Officer  Ajay Seth 
didn’t answer calls to his mobile phone, seeking comment.  
 Hero Honda Motors Ltd. , India’s biggest motorcycle maker,
may also have to increase royalty payments to Japan’s Honda
Motor Co., which owns 26 percent in the company, Shethiya said.
 Ravi Sud , the chief financial officer of Hero Honda, didn’t
answer calls to his mobile phone seeking comment.  
 The company’s shares  plunged  7.5 percent today, the most in
more than a year.  
 The increase in royalty payments comes as Maruti is facing
rising competition at home as carmakers including  Volkswagen AG 
and Ford Motor Co. introduce new compact cars and expand
factories in India.  
 Maruti’s net income fell to 5.84 billion rupees in the
three months ended June, the company said July 24. That was
lower than the 6.7 billion rupee average of 24 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Citigroup cut its recommendation to ‘Hold’ from ‘Buy.’
Nomura Holdings Inc. changed its ratings on the carmaker to
‘Reduce’ from ‘Buy.’  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Siddharth Philip  in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net 
 Vipin V. Nair  in Mumbai at 
 Vnair12@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A worker cleans Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. cars at a showroom in Mumbai. Photographer: Adeel Halim/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
