-- Asian Currencies Strengthen, Led by Won, on Korea GDP, Japan Export Growth
-- Patricia Lui
-- 2010-07-26T09:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/asian-currencies-strengthen-led-by-won-on-korea-gdp-japan-export-growth.html

          
          
             The South Korea won and the
Singapore dollar rose for a fifth day, leading gains in Asian
currencies, after reports signaled the region’s economic
recovery is intact.  
 Investor sentiment for emerging-market assets also got a
lift as most European central banks passed stress tests
assessing their strength of capital. South Korea’s  gross
domestic product  rose more than analysts estimated in the second
quarter and Japan’s June exports beat forecasts, helping drive
Asian stocks higher.  
 “Risk appetite in Asian currencies received a boost from
the non-negative reaction from the European banks’ stress
tests,” said  Emmanuel Ng , a currency strategist at Oversea-
Chinese Banking Corp. in Singapore. “The recent slew of Asian
data releases is also supportive.”  
 The won appreciated 0.7 percent to 1,191.30 in Seoul,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Philippine peso
gained 0.4 percent to 46.120 and the Singapore dollar was 0.4
percent stronger at S$1.3660 as of 4:58 p.m. local time.  
 The  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index  of regional equities advanced
for a second day after the Committee of European Banking
Supervisors said on July 23 tests found banks need to raise 3.5
billion euros ($4.5 billion) of capital, about a 10th of the
lowest analyst estimates.  
 ‘Bode Well’  
 South Korea’s GDP climbed 1.5 percent from the previous
three months, compared with the median forecast of 1.3 percent
growth in a Bloomberg survey of economists. Japan’s exports
increased 27.7 percent from a year earlier, the Finance Ministry
said today in Tokyo. The median prediction in a Bloomberg News
survey was for 23.5 percent.  
 The won reached its strongest level in a month as the
economic growth report fanned speculation the Bank of Korea will
add to this month’s interest-rate rise to contain inflation. The
central bank increased the seven-day repurchase rate to 2.25
percent on July 9 from a record-low 2 percent.  
 “The stronger-than-expected GDP numbers bode well for the
won,” said  Douglas Borthwick , a Connecticut-based managing
director and head of trading for Faros Trading LLC. “This
growth number will give the government greater political power
to either raise rates more than expected or allow a stronger
won.”  
 The won reached 1,190.18 today, the highest level since
June 24.  
 ‘Pre-crisis Levels’  
 The ringgit was little changed, having retreated from a
two-week high after Singapore, the biggest buyer of Malaysian
exports, reported slower manufacturing growth for June.
Singapore’s factory production rose 26 percent from a year
earlier, following a revised 58.4 percent increase in May, the
Economic Development Board said in a statement today.  
 “It’s safer to get back into Asian currencies with
confidence in Europe slowly coming back,” said  Zulkiflee Nidzam ,
head of foreign-exchange and bond trading at Asian Finance Bank
Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “There will be some distractions along
the way but it’s a matter of time before we return to pre-crisis
levels.”  
 The ringgit traded at 3.1973 per dollar, little changed
from 3.1965 at the end of last week. It earlier climbed as much
as 0.4 percent to 3.185, the strongest level since July 14.
Indonesia’s rupiah climbed 0.2 percent to 9,031 and the Taiwan
dollar rose 0.1 percent to NT$32.12.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        