-- Stocks Gain, Dow Erases 2010 Losses on Home-Sales Data
-- Nikolaj Gammeltoft
-- 2010-07-26T20:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/asian-stocks-won-gain-as-reports-boost-outlook-for-recovery-yen-weakens.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks rose, erasing the Dow
Jones Industrial Average’s 2010 loss, and copper advanced to a
10-week high as the dollar fell after new home sales beat
estimates and  FedEx Corp.  boosted its forecast.  
 The Dow climbed 100.81 points, or 1 percent, to 10,525.43
at 4 p.m. New York time. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained
1.1 percent to the highest level since June 18, driven by
homebuilders and transportation companies. Copper futures
increased 1.2 percent, while the dollar weakened against all 16
of its most-traded counterparts including the euro and yen.  
 Sales of U.S. new homes rose in June more than forecast
following an unprecedented collapse the prior month, a signal
the worst of the slump triggered by the end of a government tax
credit is over. FedEx joined United Parcel Service Inc., the
largest package delivery company, in lifting its earnings
forecasts. Both are considered harbingers for the economy.  
 “I’m more optimistic,” said Traxis Partners LLC’s  Barton Biggs , who added that he doubled his equity holdings this month
after slashing them in half. Biggs returned 38 percent in 2009,
triple the industry average. “I’ve definitely changed my mind
to the degree of risk out there,” he said.  
 U.S. companies are beating forecasts, and analysts see the
biggest two-year earnings increase since 1995. More than 83
percent of S&P 500 companies have exceeded the average analyst
profit estimate since July 12. S&P 500 profits may rise 35
percent in 2010 and 17 percent in 2011, according to forecasts
tracked by Bloomberg.  
 Homebuilders, Shippers  
 Homebuilders in the S&P 500 rallied 3.6 percent, led by
Pulte Group Inc. and Lennar Corp., and copper gained after sales
of new U.S. homes increased 24 percent from May to an annual
pace of 330,000, figures from the Commerce Department showed.
The rate was the second-lowest in data going back to 1963 after
May’s downwardly revised 267,000 pace.  
 The  Dow Jones Transportation Average  jumped 2.6 percent to
the highest level since May 14 after FedEx said higher demand
for international express shipments prompted it to raise its
earnings forecast. FedEx rallied 5.6 percent in U.S. trading.
UPS climbed 1.9 percent. The company said July 22 that the U.S.
economy will continue to recover.  
 Mutual funds, pensions and endowments are spending more on
stocks than at any time since the start of the bull market, just
as individuals grow the most  pessimistic  in a year.  
 Institutions pushed equities up to 68 percent of their
holdings in July, the highest level in 15 months, from 63
percent in April, a Citigroup Inc. survey showed. The ratio of
bullish to bearish respondents in a  survey  by the American
Association of Individual Investors has fallen to 0.68, the
lowest level since July 2009, based on a four-week average.  
 Diverging Opinions  
 The last time money managers and individuals were this far
apart was in March 2009, before the S&P 500 began its  63 percent 
rally, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 European stocks climbed for a fifth day as stress-test
results that showed the majority of the region’s banks are
adequately capitalized pushed financial companies higher. The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.5 percent to 257.12, the highest
level since June 21.  
 Allied Irish Banks Plc and Dexia SA rallied more than 5
percent, leading a gauge of banks higher. BP Plc gained 4.6
percent as two people familiar with the matter said the company
plans to name  Robert Dudley  to replace  Tony Hayward  as chief
executive officer. GlaxoSmithKline Plc lost 1.3 percent after a
report that the U.K.’s largest drugmaker may be interested in
buying Genzyme Corp.  
 Copper Stockpiles  
 Copper climbed to a 10-week high as shrinking inventories
and rising home sales signaled improving demand. Stockpiles
monitored by the London Metal Exchange have slumped 7.7 percent
in July, the biggest monthly decline since June 2009. Copper for
September delivery gained 1.2 percent, to $3.223 a pound.
Earlier, the metal touched $3.238, the highest level for a most-
active contract since May 13.  
 The dollar fell 0.7 percent to $1.2993 per euro. Sterling
rose to a three-month high against the dollar after the U.K.’s
major banks passed European Union stress tests. The dollar
dropped for a third day against the euro on reduced demand for
the currency as a refuge.  
 “Risk appetite appears to be returning,” said  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in Washington at Commonwealth
Foreign Exchange Inc., a currency brokerage. “There’s
definitely a welcome upside surprise to data.”  
 Corn fell to the lowest price in three weeks, soybeans
dropped the most since June and wheat declined for a second
session on signs that rain is reviving U.S. crops threatened by
dry weather earlier this month.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephanie Borise  in New York at 
 sborise1@bloomberg.net ;
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Barton Biggs, co-founder of Traxis Partners LP, discusses his investment strategy.
     Biggs talks with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt on Bloomberg Radio's "Bloomberg Surveillance." (This report is an excerpt of the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Nicholas Sargen, chief investment officer at Fort Washington Investment Advisors, talks about the outlook for U.S. stocks and the economy.
     Sargen speaks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Liam Dalton, chief executive of Axiom Capital Management, talks about the outlook for the U.S. economy and stock market.
     Dalton speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Steve Bernstein, chief executive officer of Oppenheimer Investments Asia Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about his investment strategy for Asian stocks. 
     Bernstein, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for Chinese banks and initial public offerings. (Excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
