-- Australian Second-Quarter Producer-Price Growth Slows on Car Manufacturing
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-07-26T03:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/australia-s-producer-prices-climbed-0-3-in-second-quarted-on-construction.html

          
          
             Growth in  prices  paid to Australian
producers slowed in the three months through June after surging
the most in more than a year, as car manufacturing costs dropped.  
 The  producer prices index  advanced 0.3 percent from the
first quarter, when it gained 1 percent, the Bureau of
Statistics said in Sydney today. The median estimate of 16
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News was for a 0.8 percent gain.
The index rose 1 percent from a year earlier.  
 Central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  signaled last week that
the bank is looking for signs of inflation as it gauges whether
to resume the most aggressive round of interest rate increases
among Group of 20 members. Analysts predict a report this week
will show consumer-price growth probably accelerated above the
top of the bank’s 2 percent to 3 percent target range.  
 “The PPI doesn’t signal a need for higher interest rates
if the CPI is ambiguous” when it’s published in two days, said
 Rob Henderson , chief markets economist at National Australia
Bank Ltd. in Sydney. “But nor is it low enough to point to no
rate hike.”  
 The Australian dollar fell to 89.56 U.S. cents at 12:34 p.m.
in Sydney from 89.77 cents just before the report was released.
The two-year government bond yield rose 2 basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 4.70 percent.  
 Motor Vehicles  
 The cost of motor vehicle manufacturing declined 1.2
percent and meat manufacturing dropped 4.3 percent in the second
quarter, today’s report showed. By contrast, building
construction rose 0.3 percent and dairy-product manufacturing
advanced 3.7 percent.  
 Policy makers, who have raised the benchmark lending rate
six times since early October, said last week that local
inflation data will determine whether they increase borrowing
costs as early as next month.  
 “The important question for the board at its next meeting
would be whether the new information materially changed the
medium-term outlook for inflation,” the bank said in minutes of
its July 6 meeting released last week.  
 This week’s inflation figures are expected to show
“further moderation in the year-ended underlying rate, although
underlying inflation was likely to remain in the top half of the
target range over the period ahead,” the minutes said.  
 Economic Growth  
 Inflation pressures are building on an economic expansion
the central bank predicts will almost double its pace in the
next two years, fueled by Chinese demand for coal, iron ore and
energy.  
 Annual inflation probably  accelerated  to 3.4 percent in the
three months through June after gaining 2.9 percent in the
previous quarter, according to the median estimate of 20
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Inflation figures will be
published on July 28 at 11:30 a.m. in Sydney.  
 Gross domestic product rose for a fifth straight quarter in
the three months through March 31, gaining 0.5 percent from the
previous quarter, and the unemployment rate fell to 5.1 percent
in June after employers added almost 330,000 jobs since August.  
 Traders are betting there’s a 24 percent chance of a
quarter percentage point increase in the benchmark rate to 4.75
percent at the central bank’s Aug. 3 meeting, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on interbank futures on the Sydney
Futures Exchange at 11:52 a.m., compared with 30 percent ahead
of today’s report.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        