-- N.Z. Dollar Little Changed on U.S. Report After Touching a Six-Month High
-- Candice Zachariahs
-- 2010-07-27T16:41:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/australian-dollar-holds-above-90-cents-on-prospects-for-a-rate-increase.html

          
          
             New Zealand’s dollar was little
changed after touching a six-month high, erasing its gain along
with the Australian dollar as a report showed U.S. consumer
confidence fell.  
 The Aussie rallied earlier on speculation a report forecast
to show accelerated inflation will give Reserve Bank of
Australia policy makers more reason to raise interest rates. New
Zealand’s central bank is due to decide on rates this week.  
 “The risk to the Australian and New Zealand dollars is for
further strength in the short term,” said  Mike Jones , a
currency strategist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington.
“Wednesday’s CPI looks to be very important in shaping
expectations for future RBA policy.”  
 New Zealand’s dollar bought 73.39 U.S. cents at 12:32 p.m.
in New York, compared with 73.38 yesterday, after touching 73.97
cents, the highest level since Jan. 19. Australia’s dollar
traded at 90.31 U.S. cents, compared with 90.26, after rising to
90.69, the highest level since May 10.  
 Consumer prices  in Australia rose in the second quarter at
the quickest pace since September 2009, according to a Bloomberg
survey before tomorrow’s report. New Zealand’s central bank will
increase borrowing costs on the following day, a separate
Bloomberg  survey  showed.  
 Both currencies rose for a third day yesterday as U.S. and
European stocks advanced and  metals prices  climbed.  
 The Reserve Bank of Australia has been signaling the
importance of consumer-price data before its monetary policy
decision on Aug. 3,  Brian Kim , a currency strategist at UBS AG
in Stamford, Connecticut, wrote in a note to clients.  
 American consumers lost confidence in July, shaken by
mounting concern over jobs and wages that threatens to constrain
the economic recovery.  
 The Conference Board’s sentiment index fell to 50.4, below
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and
the lowest level in five months, figures from the New York-based
private research group showed today.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Oliver Biggadike  in New York at 
 obiggadike@bloomberg.net ;
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        