-- Australian Inflation Probably Quickened, Stoking Rates Threat to Gillard
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-07-27T01:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/australian-inflation-probably-quickened-stoking-rates-threat-to-gillard.html

          
          
             Australia’s annual  inflation  rate
probably accelerated above the top of the central bank’s target
range last quarter, increasing pressure on policy makers to
boost borrowing costs during a federal election campaign.  
 The consumer price index rose 1 percent in the quarter for
an annual gain of 3.4 percent, according to the median estimate
of 21 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News. The  Bureau of
Statistics  releases the figures at 11:30 a.m. in Sydney tomorrow,
six days before Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board review
borrowing costs.  
 Reserve Bank of Australia policy makers signaled last week
they are monitoring inflation as they determine whether to
resume the most  aggressive round  of interest-rate increases by a
Group of 20 member. Price pressures show signs of mounting as
Chinese demand for natural resources stokes a mining boom that
has pushed Australia’s unemployment to half the level of the U.S.
and Europe.  
 “A core reading of 0.9 percent quarter-on-quarter or more
would suggest that inflationary pressures are building much
faster than anticipated,” said  Warren Hogan , chief economist at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Sydney. “That
would undoubtedly prompt a material change in the medium-term
outlook for inflation, thereby prompting the RBA to raise rates
in August.”  
 Election Campaign  
 Speculation increased last week that Governor Stevens will
resume raising interest rates as early as Aug. 3, potentially
hurting Labor Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s bid to win the
federal election on Aug. 21.  
 Gillard, who ousted former leader  Kevin Rudd  last month, is
relying on holding seats in areas of western Sydney and
Queensland that have large numbers of households with mortgages.  
 Stevens kept borrowing costs unchanged this month and in
June, after boosting the benchmark lending rate by 150 basis
points between early October and May from a half-century low of
3 percent, adding about A$3,600 ($3,200) a year to loan
repayments on an average A$300,000 mortgage.  
 The bank’s interest-rate moves have also helped stoke a 10
percent gain in the nation’s currency against the U.S. dollar in
the past 12 months, the second-best performer among the 16 most
actively traded currencies. The Australian dollar traded at
90.13 U.S. cents at 10:24 a.m. in Sydney, close to its highest
level since early May.  
 Traders are betting there’s a 24 percent chance of a
quarter-percentage-point increase in the benchmark rate to 4.75
percent next week, according to Bloomberg calculations based on
interbank futures on the Sydney Futures Exchange at 10:19 a.m.  
 ‘Materially Changed’  
 “The important question for the board at its next meeting
would be whether the new information materially changed the
medium-term outlook for inflation,” the bank said in  minutes  of
its July 6 meeting released in Sydney last week.  
 Tomorrow’s figures are expected to show “further
moderation in the year-ended underlying rate, although
underlying inflation was likely to remain in the top half of the
target range over the period ahead,” the minutes said.  
 Core inflation, as measured by the central bank’s so-called
trimmed mean gauge, probably rose 3 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News
predict. Governor Stevens and his board aim to keep inflation
between 2 percent and 3 percent on average.  
 ‘Next Tightening’  
 “Markets, commentators, economists and even the RBA seem
to have concluded that the timing of the next tightening move is
almost entirely dependent on whether June quarter underlying
inflation is above 0.8 percent,” said  Annette Beacher , an
economist at TD Securities Ltd. in Singapore.  
 The outlook for inflation is “particularly uncomfortable
as the economy expands to an expected above-trend pace and the
unemployment rate falls below the key 5 percent level” at which
a shortage of skilled workers begins to stoke wage gains,
Beacher said.  
 A report published since the bank’s July meeting showed
strengthening Chinese demand for raw materials helped stoke a
mining boom that has pushed the unemployment rate down to 5.1
percent, below Japan’s level and almost half that of the U.S.  
 An index of Australian leading economic indicators
increased 0.3 percent in May, the New York-based Conference
Board said today.  
 Treasury reiterated yesterday its forecast that gross
domestic product will rise 3 percent in 2010-11 and 3.75 percent
the following fiscal year.  
 “Inflationary risks are on the upside, with the labor
market reaching full capacity over the next year and the strong
incomes boost from the terms of trade expected to see demand
increasingly stretch the economy’s supply capacity,” the
Treasury department said.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The consumer price index rose 1 percent in the quarter for an annual gain of 3.4 percent, according to the median estimate of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Photographer: Ian Waldie/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
