-- Australian Key Stock Index May Jump 17% By Year's End, UBS Strategist Says
-- Lisa Pham
-- 2010-07-26T07:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/australian-key-stock-index-may-jump-17-by-year-s-end-ubs-strategist-says.html

          
          
             Australia’s benchmark stock  index 
may climb as much as 17 percent by the end of the year as the
nation’s economy rebounds and concern over a slowdown in China
recedes, UBS AG strategist  David Cassidy  said.  
 The S&P/ASX 200 Index, which closed last week at 4,458.40,
may rise to 5,200 by year’s end, the Sydney-based equity
strategist said. It has slumped 8.5 percent this year, driving
 valuations  to a 16-month low on July 5, as China’s slowing
growth and Europe’s deepening debt crisis fueled speculation a
global recovery is faltering.  
 “Our market is cheap and we can move higher,” Cassidy,
the No. 1 Australian equity strategist in three of the past five
annual fund manager surveys conducted by research company East
Coles and published in the Business Review Weekly, said in an
interview. “We might see better performance in the second half
if the economy shows improvement and concerns over a China
slowdown dissipate.” Cassidy is “overweight” stocks in mining
companies and other industries closely tied to economic growth.  
 The  S&P/ASX 200  jumped 31 percent last year as government
stimulus measures and interest rates at a half-century low
boosted earnings at companies. Its slump this year has coincided
with China’s steps to curb rising property prices, credit-agency
downgrades of Greece, Spain and Portugal, and signs that a U.S.
economic recovery is stalling.  
 Australian Jobs  
 More evidence Australia’s economy is strengthening would
help push stocks higher over the next few months, according to
Cassidy. A change of government in upcoming elections wouldn’t
have a significant impact on the country’s economic situation,
he said.  
 Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  has called a general election
for Aug. 21, betting the ruling Labor Party’s record of
delivering economic growth during the global financial crisis
will help ensure it is returned to power.  
 “The most likely outcome will be Labor getting re-
elected,” Cassidy said.  
 Australian  jobs growth  in June capped the best quarter in
almost four years, a statistics bureau report this month showed.
Home-loan approvals rose in May for the first time in eight
months and  consumer confidence  surged in July by the most in 13
months, according to a Westpac Banking Corp. and Melbourne
Institute survey.  
 “There’s quite a strong rate of employment growth in
Australia, which is helping income growth,” said Cassidy.
“Consumer spending will pick up from where it’s been.”  
 China Slowdown  
 Stocks will also likely climb this year as investors begin
to recognize that China’s slowdown is not too concerning, said
Cassidy. The Chinese government’s efforts to curb asset bubbles
will help make the country’s growth more sustainable, he said.  
 China’s gross domestic product expanded 10.3 percent in the
second quarter, easing from an 11.9 percent increase in the
previous three months, the statistics bureau said on July 15.
Reports this month also showed property prices in 70 Chinese
cities fell 0.1 percent in June from May, snapping 15 months of
gains, while bank lending eased.  
 “The problem in China, and to some extent Australia, is
too much growth rather than not enough,” Cassidy said. “That’s
different from the problem in the U.S. and Europe, which is a
lack of growth and too much debt.”  
 The biggest obstacle to a rally in the Australian stock
index to as high as to 5,200 would be evidence of a deepening
U.S. slowdown, the strategist said. This month, U.S. Federal
Reserve members cut their growth forecasts for the world’s
biggest economy, while separate reports showed retail sales
declined and manufacturing contracted.  
 U.S. Threat  
 Further signs of U.S. weakening would hurt global growth as
well as knocking confidence in equity markets worldwide, Cassidy
said.  
 The Australian benchmark stock guage climbed 0.6 percent to
4,486.10 at the 4:10 p.m. close of trading in Sydney today,
after reports that most European banks passed stress tests
boosted optimism in the health of the global economy.  
 European regulators found that seven of the 91 banks
subject to evaluation need to raise a combined 3.5 billion euros
($4.5 billion) -- about a tenth of the lowest analyst estimate -
- leaving doubts as to whether the tests were tough enough.  
 The stress tests were “a bit underwhelming in respect of
the severity of assumptions used,” Cassidy said. “But at least
the waiting game is over and the fear factor has been at least
partially removed.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        