-- Bank Tests Aren't `Rigorous Enough,' Oppenheimer Says
-- Kana Nishizawa
-- 2010-07-26T08:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/bank-stress-tests-aren-t-rigorous-enough-oppenheimer-s-bernstein-says.html

          
          
             Stress tests on European banks were
not strict enough and regulators should have taken a broader
look, according to  Steve Bernstein , chief executive officer of
Oppenheimer Investment Asia Ltd.  
 “The test isn’t rigorous enough. As time goes on, there
must be other banks that need to raise more capital,” Bernstein
said in an interview in Hong Kong. “The fact that they only
look at one part of the portfolio isn’t enough. The test should
have looked at the banks’ investment portfolio as well.”  
 European Union stress tests found that seven banks need to
raise 3.5 billion euros ($4.5 billion) of capital. Germany’s
 Hypo Real Estate Holding AG ,  Agricultural Bank of Greece SA  and
five Spanish savings banks didn’t have adequate reserves to
maintain a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6 percent in the
event of a recession and sovereign-debt crisis, lenders and
regulators said on July 23.  
 “I’d have expected more,” said Bernstein. “Only seven
banks in Europe have to raise capital. That’s fewer than I
expected.”  
 Citigroup Inc. wrote in a report dated July 23 that equity
and debt markets will rate European banks using harsher stress
scenarios than the Committee of European Banking Supervisors,
which ran the assessments of 91 lenders.  
 “Funding, equity and debt markets will tier banks based on
banks’ perceived solvency position under a market-realistic
stress scenario,” Citigroup analysts including  Stefan Nedialkov 
wrote in the report. The test could be “harsher than the CEBS
test and include stressing the banking book,” they said.  
 Budget Deficits  
 European governments are using their first coordinated
stress tests to reassure investors about the health of financial
institutions after the debt crisis pummeled the bonds of Greece,
Spain and Portugal.  
 Rising budget deficits in Europe raised concerns the global
economic recovery may falter, contributing to a slump in global
stock markets. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  has fallen 6.3 percent
from this year’s high on April 15, while the U.S.’s Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index has tumbled 9 percent and the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index has lost 8.6 percent.  
 Asian stocks rose today in the first trading session after
the stress test results were released. The  MSCI Asia Pacific
Index  climbed 0.5 percent as of 5:23 p.m. in Tokyo to a one-
month high.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Hypo Real Estate Holding AG company headquarters sits in Munich. Photographer: Guenter Schiffmann/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Steve Bernstein, chief executive officer of Oppenheimer Investments Asia Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about his investment strategy for Asian stocks. 
     Bernstein, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for Chinese banks and initial public offerings. (Excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Jonathan Stubbs, head of European and U.K. equity strategy at Citigroup Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about the results of the stress tests for European banks and his investment strategy.
     Stubbs, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for the global economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Adrian Foster, head of financial-markets research for Asia at Rabobank Groep NV in Hong Kong, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the results of stress tests on European banks and the outlook for the region's economies. 
     European regulators found that seven banks need to raise a combined 3.5 billion euros ($4.5 billion) of capital. Germany’s Hypo Real Estate Holding AG, Agricultural Bank of Greece SA and five Spanish savings banks didn’t have adequate reserves to maintain a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6 percent in the event of a recession and sovereign-debt crisis, lenders and regulators said on July 23. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
