-- Fischer Raises Key Israel Rate to Prevent Real Estate Bubble
-- Alisa Odenheimer
-- 2010-07-26T21:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/bank-of-israel-unexpectedly-raises-its-benchmark-interest-rate-to-1-75-.html

          
          
             Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  raised the  benchmark interest rate  for the first time in
four months in a bid to cool housing prices which he says could
develop into a bubble.  
 Fischer yesterday unexpectedly increased the rate by a
quarter percentage point to 1.75 percent. Only five of 16
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg had predicted the decision,
while eleven expected no change.  
 “He is very concerned about housing prices,”  Jonathan Katz , a Jerusalem-based economist for HSBC Holdings Plc who
predicted the raise, said in a telephone interview. “He is
aware that monetary policy has contributed to the froth.”  
 Fischer raised the key interest rate by a percentage point
between August and March as the economy recovered from the
impact of the worst global recession since the Great Depression.
During the past year, housing prices have risen 21 percent and
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development warned
in a May 26 report of a “speculative” property bubble in
Israel.  
 The shekel strengthened to 3.8201 against the dollar at
9:14 p.m. in Tel Aviv from 3.8480 just before the decision was
announced. The benchmark Mimshal Shiklit note due January 2020
rose 0.04 shekel to 106.12 at the close in Tel Aviv. The yield
on the 5 percent security was 4.51 percent. It reached a low of
4.49 percent on July 22.  
 Most bonds are likely to be hurt by the rate increase, said
 Amir Kahanovich , an economist at Clal Finance Investment
Management Ltd. in Tel Aviv. “Bonds in general hate a surprise
increase in interest rates, especially CPI-linked bonds with
longer maturities,” he said.  
 Short Supply  
 Rents, as measured in the housing component of the Consumer
Price Index, have risen by 4.9 percent in the past 12 months,
double the 2.4 percent increase in the overall index, the
Central Bureau of Statistics said July 15.  
 The rate of increase in housing prices “continues to be
very rapid, and if prices continue to rise at the current pace
they are likely to deviate from the level consistent with the
basic economic conditions,” the bank said in its  statement 
yesterday.  
 While the best way to prevent the property market from
overheating would be to increase the supply of housing, it isn’t
likely that there will be a significant increase in construction
of new homes, Fischer said July 19. “Prices have risen over 20
percent in the past year and if they continue to rise at this
pace we will have a bubble,” he said.  
 The central bank published a draft directive on May 24 that
will require banks to increase provisions for mortgages with a
high loan-to-value ratio, in a bid to slow rapidly rising house
prices. The directive called on the banks to re-examine the risk
in their housing credit portfolio.  
 ‘Red Flag’  
 Fischer’s decision yesterday was also triggered by the rise
in  inflation  expectations, the statement said. Forecasters’
expectations of inflation over the next 12 months rose from an
average of 2.6 percent at the end of June, to an average of 3.2
percent in mid-July, the Bank of Israel said. The government’s
target is for annual inflation of 1 percent to 3 percent.  
 “That’s a red flag for him,” said Katz, who sees two more
rate increases by the end of the year. “Maybe the market thinks
that he is behind the curve.”  
 While  inflation  slowed to 2.4 percent in June, inflation
expectations for the next 12 months, as derived from the bond
market, are at 3.3 percent, said  Arie Tal , chief strategist at
Alumot-Sprint Investment House Ltd. in Herzliya, near Tel Aviv.  
 Jobless Low  
 Israel began to recover from the global crisis ahead of
many developed countries. The economy is expected to grow by 3.6
percent this year, according to a June 6 Finance Ministry
forecast, and by 3.8 percent next year.  
 Unemployment  fell to a 1 1/2-year low in May, declining to
6.5 percent from 6.6 percent the previous month. Unemployment is
likely to drop to 7.3 percent this year, from 7.6 percent in
2009, the Finance Ministry said in the June 6 forecast.  
 Israel’s  benchmark TA-25 stock index  has gained about 18
percent in the past year, led by Perrigo Co., the world’s
largest maker of non-prescription, store-branded drugs, which
nearly doubled.  
 In August, Fischer became the first central bank governor
to raise rates in response to signs of a recovery. Other
countries to follow suit include Australia, India and Norway.  
 “It seems that the governor has changed his position and
he is giving greater importance to inflation expectations than
to continued support of growth in the economy,” said Dan Ron,
chief investment officer of Tel Aviv-based Tachlit Investment
House.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Stanley Fischer, governor of the Bank of Israel  
                       
                         
                           Kerem Uzel/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Stanley Fischer, governor of the Bank of Israel,  a seminar in Istanbul, on Oct. 3, 2009. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Stanley Fischer, governor of the Bank of Israel,  a seminar in Istanbul, on Oct. 3, 2009. Photographer: Kerem Uzel/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
