-- Bank Bond Risk Drops to 13-Week Low in Europe on Stress-Test Transparency
-- Abigail Moses
-- 2010-07-26T16:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/bank-bond-risk-drops-to-10-week-low-in-europe-on-stress-test-transparency.html

          
          
             The cost of insuring against losses
on bank bonds fell to the lowest level in 13 weeks as analysts
said European Union stress tests provided greater-than-expected
transparency about holdings of sovereign debt.  
 The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps
on 25 banks and insurers dropped for a fifth day, down 15.5
basis points to 117.5, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. at 5
p.m. in London. It’s the biggest one-day decline since May 10
and the index is now the lowest since April 26.  
 Investors were concerned that government debt holdings may
be concealed by the test results because banks were only
examined on bonds in trading books, excluding those held to
maturity. Europe’s budget deficit crisis triggered speculation
lenders would fail as a consequence of sovereign debt losses.  
 “They provided a lot of fairly detailed information on the
banks so that everyone can do their own stress tests,” said
 Philip Gisdakis , a Munich-based strategist at UniCredit SpA.
“Having the detailed information you don’t need to rely only on
the headline figures, you can do it on your own.”  
 The tests found banks need to raise 3.5 billion euros ($4.5
billion) of capital, about a tenth of the lowest analyst
estimate. Only Germany’s Hypo Real Estate Holding AG,
Agricultural Bank of Greece SA and five Spanish savings banks
lacked adequate reserves to maintain a so-called Tier 1 capital
ratio of at least 6 percent in the event of a recession and
sovereign-debt crisis, according to results published July 23.  
 Economic Slowdown  
 The tests were meant to reassure investors banks can
withstand a sovereign debt crisis and economic slowdown. Global
growth may average 3.25 percent to 3.5 percent in the next three
to five years, well below the 4.7 percent pace of the five years
leading up to the 2008 slump, estimates  Stephen Roach , non-
executive chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia.  
 The tests “give a nice list of who’s well capitalized and
that’s quite useful,” said  Gary Jenkins , head of credit
strategy at Evolution Securities Ltd. in London. “It does show
the European banking sector is capable of withstanding another
downturn in the economy and that’s a good thing.”  
 The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of swaps 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings fell 7.25 basis points to 104.75, and
the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50 companies with mostly
high-yield credit ratings decreased 29.5 basis points to 477,
JPMorgan prices show.  
 A basis point on a credit-default swap contract protecting
10 million euros of debt from default for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A decline signals
improvement in perceptions of credit quality.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        