-- Bank Credit Risk Drops to Three-Month Low on EU Stress-Test Transparency
-- Abigail Moses
-- 2010-07-26T22:21:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/bank-credit-risk-drops-to-three-month-low-on-eu-stress-test-transparency.html

          
          
             The cost of insuring against losses
on bank bonds dropped to an almost three-month low after stress
test results provided greater-than-expected transparency about
how much sovereign debt European lenders hold.  
 Credit-default swaps on 14 of the world’s biggest banks,
including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG, fell to a
12-week low, according to an index of swaps compiled by Credit
Derivatives Research LLC. Stress tests found European banks need
to raise 3.5 billion euros ($4.6 billion) of capital, about a
tenth of the lowest analyst estimate.  
 “It’s a modest positive,” said  Mark Kiesel , global head
of corporate bond portfolio management at Pacific Investment
Management Co., which oversees the world’s biggest bond fund.
“It shows that the large-cap banks in core Europe are still
relatively well capitalized.”  
 Of the 91 banks examined, only Germany’s Hypo Real Estate
Holding AG, Agricultural Bank of Greece SA and five Spanish
savings banks lacked adequate reserves to maintain a so-called
Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6 percent in the event of a
recession and sovereign-debt crisis, according to results
published July 23.  
 Credit Derivatives Research’s Counterparty Risk Index of
the largest banks fell 7 basis points to 126, the lowest since
124 on May 3. The benchmark, which declines as investor
confidence improves, has dropped 16.5 basis points the past
week. Investors use credit-default swaps to hedge against losses
on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness.  
 ‘Transparency Exercise’  
 European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet ,
speaking to reporters in Basel, Switzerland, said the stress
exams were “a very important transparency exercise.” The banks
that failed are in “close contact” with national authorities
over how to raise capital, said the  Committee of European
Banking Supervisors , which ran the assessments.  
 The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings decreased 5.6 basis points to 106.7,
and the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps on
50 companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings dropped 28.2
basis points to 478, Markit prices show. The contracts are down
from 634.75 basis points June 8.  
 Swaps on the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index dropped 3.4 basis points to a mid-price of 103 as of 5:49
p.m. in New York, according to index administrator Markit Group
Ltd. That’s the lowest level since May 13.  
 Citigroup Falls  
 Contracts on Goldman Sachs Group Inc. decreased 6.8 basis
points to 150.1 and those on Citigroup Inc. fell 9.1 basis
points to 157.6, according to data provider CMA. Swaps on
JPMorgan Chase declined 2.9 basis points to 87.2 and those on
Bank of America Corp. dropped 5.4 basis points to 135.3, CMA
data show.  
 Credit swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying security if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point, 0.01
percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  
 With the successful completion of the stress tests, concern
that European sovereign debt may be excessive is no longer
driving prices of corporate credit-default swaps, according to a
report by CreditSights Inc. strategists  David Watts  and  Hana Galetova .  
 “We would expect to see European credits that are not
located in the Club O’Med countries follow U.S. credits in
starting to disconnect from the sovereign story, as long as the
sovereign story doesn’t once again become the only story,” they
wrote in the note dated July 25.  
 Debt Holdings  
 Europe’s budget deficit crisis triggered speculation
lenders would fail as a consequence of sovereign debt losses.
Investors were initially concerned that the stress tests may
conceal government debt holdings because examiners looked only
at a bank’s bonds in its trading books, excluding those held to
maturity.  
 The results provided “most of the important information
that market participants need in order to do their own stress
tests,” said  Philip Gisdakis , a Munich-based strategist at
UniCredit SpA. “In respect to the sovereign risk exposure, this
transparency helped to stabilize or improve the mood somewhat
and that led to the positive market.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net 
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Joshua Rosner, an analyst at Graham Fisher & Co., talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman about the results of the European Union's stress tests for banks.
     Jean-Claude Juncker, who heads the group of euro-area finance ministers, says the tests have shown a "robust" European banking industry.(Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
