-- Bank of England to Gain Broad Powers Over Financial Regulation, Hoban Says
-- Lindsay Fortado
-- 2010-07-26T09:18:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/bank-of-england-to-gain-broad-powers-over-financial-regulation-hoban-says.html

          
          
             The Bank of England will assume
broad powers over U.K. financial regulation, including oversight
of systemic risk and clearinghouses, under proposals laid out by
U.K. Treasury Minister  Mark Hoban .  
 The Bank will establish a policy unit, that will include
industry executives, to monitor risks to the financial system,
Hoban said in a speech in London today. A new consumer agency
would also monitor banking products and credit regulation.  
 Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said on June 17
he will abolish the old regulator, the Financial Services
Authority, and give most of its power to the Bank by 2012,
undoing the oversight model set up by  Gordon Brown  in 1997. The
FSA was blamed by politicians for not doing enough to prevent
the financial crisis.  
 “Perhaps the most obvious failing of the U.K. system,
however, is the fact that no single institution has the
responsibility, authority or powers to monitor the system as a
whole,” Hoban said.  
 Under the plans laid out by Hoban today, the FSA’s other
powers would be distributed to a wide range of agencies.
Oversight of lenders and insurers would be handed over to a
prudential regulator that is a unit of the Bank.  
 Consumer Agency  
 A consumer protection and markets authority will be created
to monitor conduct in financial markets, Hoban said. The body
will have the power to oversee the sale and marketing of
products at investment and retail banks that are also overseen
by the new prudential regulator. Some powers of the U.K.
antitrust regulator, the Office of Fair Trading, might also be
transferred to the consumer agency.  
 “The CPMA’s primary objective in regulation will be to
ensure confidence in financial markets,” Hoban said.  “In
pursuing this objective it will focus on the twin aspects of
consumer protection and market integrity.”  
 The Bank will also take responsibility for overseeing
central counterparty clearinghouses and settlement systems,
Hoban said, sitting alongside its existing responsibilities for
overseeing payment systems.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        