-- Basel Committee Overseers in `Broad' Agreement on Bank Rules
-- Yalman Onaran
-- 2010-07-26T18:37:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/basel-committee-reaches-broad-agreement-on-bank-capital-liquidity-rules.html

          
          
             The group of governors and heads of
supervision who oversee the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision said they reached a “broad agreement” on the
“overall design” of new capital and liquidity rules for banks.  
 The central bankers and regulators agreed on a new 3
percent leverage ratio to apply to banks globally, according to
a  statement  today. The ratio  will be tested  from 2013 until
2017, and banks would be required to start publishing their
individual leverage figures starting in 2015. The cap could
become binding as early as 2018, after possible adjustment to
the ratio and the method of calculating banks’ assets.  
 The Basel board also accepted a final version of the
committee’s proposed definition of capital while approving
partial changes to the treatment of counterparty credit risk and
the global liquidity standard. They also agreed to publish an
economic impact assessment of the new rule proposals in August.  
 “The agreements reached today are a landmark achievement
to strengthen banking sector resilience,”  Jean-Claude Trichet ,
president of the European Central Bank and chairman of the group
that met today at the Bank for International Settlements in
Basel, Switzerland, said in the statement. “We will put in
place transition arrangements that ensure the banking sector is
able to support the economic recovery.”  
 Bankers including  Deutsche Bank AG  Chief Executive Officer
 Josef Ackermann  and HSBC Holdings Plc Chairman  Stephen Green 
have said that the new rules may force banks to reduce lending,
potentially limiting economic growth.  
 ‘Substantial Strides’  
 “A strong banking sector is a necessary condition for
sustainable economic growth,”  Nout Wellink , chairman of the
Basel Committee and president of the Dutch central bank, said in
the statement. “Many banks have already made substantial
strides in strengthening their capital and liquidity base.”  
 The group made amendments to Basel Committee proposals
published in December, including to the definition of capital,
the treatment of minority interests, the treatment of
counterparty credit risk, the leverage ratio, the liquidity
coverage ratio and the net stable funding ratio, according to
the statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Clark  in London at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net ;
 Yalman Onaran  in New York at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Basel Committee Overseers Reach 'Broad' Agreement  
                       
                         
                           Mario Proenca/Bloomberg 
                         
                         "The agreements reached today are a landmark achievement to strengthen banking sector resilience," Jean-Claude Trichet said. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "The agreements reached today are a landmark achievement to strengthen banking sector resilience," Jean-Claude Trichet said. Photographer: Mario Proenca/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Jonathan Stubbs, head of European and U.K. equity strategy at Citigroup Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about the results of the stress tests for European banks and his investment strategy.
     Stubbs, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for the global economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
