-- Basel Committee Softens Bank Capital Rules, Sets Leverage Cap
-- Yalman Onaran
-- 2010-07-27T07:29:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/basel-committee-softens-proposed-bank-capital-rules-sets-cap-on-leverage.html

          
          
             The Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision softened some of its proposed capital and liquidity
rules while introducing new restrictions on how much lenders can
borrow in order to rein in their risk-taking.  
 The panel agreed yesterday to allow certain assets,
including minority stakes in other financial firms, to count as
capital, according to a  statement . The committee set a  leverage
ratio  to apply to banks globally for the first time, which could
become binding by 2018, pending further adjustments to the
method of calculating banks’ assets.  
 “Even after all the compromises, the banks aren’t off the
hook from tighter capital and liquidity rules,” said  Frederick Cannon , chief equity strategist at New York-based Keefe,
Bruyette & Woods.  
 France and Germany have led efforts to weaken rules
proposed by the committee in December, concerned that their
banks and economies won’t be able to bear the burden of tougher
capital requirements until a recovery takes hold, according to
bankers, regulators and lobbyists involved in the talks. The
U.S., Switzerland and the U.K. have resisted those efforts. The
announcement reflects the give and take between the two sides,
said  Barbara Matthews , managing director of BCM International
Regulatory Analytics LLC in Washington.  
 German Concerns  
 Germany hasn’t signed yesterday’s preliminary agreement,
said  Sabine Reimer , a spokeswoman for BaFin, the country’s
financial regulator.  
 “One country still has concerns and has reserved its
position until the decisions on calibration and phase-in
arrangements are finalized in September,” the committee said in
a footnote to its statement.  
 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. , Japan’s second-
largest bank by market value, led banks higher in Tokyo after
the committee agreed to allow some deferred tax assets to be
counted as capital. The nation’s banks and regulators had fought
against excluding deferred tax assets.  
 “The Basel Committee’s easing of restrictions gives
investors a reason to take another look at Japanese banks, which
have been cheap recently,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees
about $450 million in assets in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment
Management Co.  
 Sumitomo Mitsui  rose  2.8 percent to 2,587 yen at the 3 p.m.
close of trading in Tokyo.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. ,
the country’s largest bank, gained 2.5 percent and  Mizuho
Financial Group Inc.  climbed 2.2 percent.  
 ‘Making Concessions’  
 “They’re definitely making concessions on the definition
of capital and the liquidity ratios,” said BCM International’s
Matthews, who used to lobby the committee on behalf of banks.
“Those were necessary to convince the Germans to accept the
leverage ratio. But even though we see a lot of concessions,
there are also limits to the concessions. So this isn’t fully
caving in.”  
 The Basel committee, which represents central banks and
regulators in 27 nations and sets capital standards for banks
worldwide, was asked by Group of 20 leaders to draft rules after
the worst financial crisis in 70 years.  
 Yesterday’s agreements were announced after a  meeting  of
the group of governors and heads of supervision, which oversees
the committee’s work. While the committee narrowed differences
when it met two weeks ago in Basel, it left most of the final
decisions to its board, members said.  
 The board said some of its  proposals  might not be completed
by the end of this year, the deadline set by the G-20. Liquidity
requirements for how much cash and cashable securities banks
need to hold against their longer-term liabilities and counter-
cyclical buffers, which would raise minimum capital requirements
in times of faster economic growth, have to be worked on longer,
the board said.  
 Lobby Efforts  
 European banks lobbied against the proposed exclusion of
minority interests that banks hold in other financial
institutions.  Japan  fought the hardest against the elimination
of deferred tax assets, past losses that lenders use to offset
tax charges in future years. The U.S. has opposed removing
mortgage-servicing rights, contracts to collect payments, which
are unique to U.S. banks.  
 The compromise announced yesterday would allow a bank to
count part of a stake it owns in another financial firm in
relation to the risk the capital is supposed to cover at the
entity in which it invested. Deferred tax assets and mortgage-
servicing rights would be included in capital up to a limit. The
total for all three could not exceed 15 percent of a lender’s
common equity.  
 While the capital ratios allow banks to assign weights to
assets based on their risks, the new leverage figure considers
all assets without a risk assessment. The committee initially
set it at 3 percent -- meaning a bank’s total assets cannot be
more than 33 times its Tier 1 capital, which includes securities
that could help a lender cover unexpected losses.  
 Level Playing Field  
 The new rule also defines how assets are tallied, so as to
level the playing field between different accounting standards
and bring off-balance-sheet items into the calculation. The
ratio will be tested from 2013 until 2017, and banks would be
required to start publishing their individual leverage figures
starting in 2015.  
 Bankers including  Deutsche Bank AG  Chief Executive Officer
 Josef Ackermann  and HSBC Holdings Plc Chairman  Stephen Green 
have said that the new rules may force banks to reduce lending,
potentially limiting economic growth.  
 While yesterday’s announcement resolved several issues,
many areas of contention, such as the actual minimum capital
ratios that will be set, remain outstanding, said KBW’s Cannon.  
 “The definition of capital had to be finalized before the
numbers can be put on, but there are still many moving parts,”
said Cannon, whose research firm specializes in financial
companies. The committee is planning to present a final package
of reforms to the G-20 leaders meeting in  Seoul  in November.  
 Risk-Weighted Assets  
 Banks currently need to hold capital equal to a minimum of
8 percent of risk-weighted assets. Half of that must be Tier 1,
and half of the Tier 1 needs to be common stock. Both Tier 1 and
common-equity ratios will be increased, Cannon and other
analysts expect. The Basel committee is also revising how the
risk weighting will be done.  
 Like the leverage ratio, the liquidity rules are new to the
Basel standards. The liquidity coverage ratio sets the amount of
cash that needs to be held by a lender against any payment
coming due within a month, while the net stable funding ratio
considers liabilities up to 12 months.  
 The committee announced several modifications to the
definition of liquid assets and of how to measure the safety of
different types of funding. Government deposits will now be
considered the same as corporate cash put in a bank, instead of
treated as other banks’ money as originally proposed. Bank
deposits are seen as less stable.  
 The changes should please banks, said Cannon.  
 “They compromised more on the short-term ratio than we
were expecting,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yalman Onaran  in New York at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Stephen Green, chairman of HSBC Holdings Plc. Photographer: Antoine Antoniol/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Jonathan Stubbs, head of European and U.K. equity strategy at Citigroup Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about the results of the stress tests for European banks and his investment strategy.
     Stubbs, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for the global economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
