-- Beatles, Presley Pianos, Churchill's Teeth, Dinosaur for Sale
-- Scott Reyburn
-- 2010-07-26T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/beatles-presley-pianos-duke-s-chimneypiece-churchill-s-dentures-on-sale.html

          
          
             Elvis Presley’s  gleaming white Knabe
grand piano, and the coffee-stained upright instrument played by
the Beatles and  Pink Floyd , are up for sale in separate auctions
on either side of the Atlantic next month.  
 Presley’s piano, which was in the music room at his
Graceland home from 1957 to 1969, may fetch more than $1 million
at Heritage Auction Galleries’ Memphis sale on  Aug. 14 . The
cigarette-burned Challen, used from the 1960s at Abbey Road
Studios in north London, is expected to fetch as much as 150,000
pounds ($231,000) in Bonhams’s “Pioneers of Popular Culture”
auction at Goodwood Vintage Festival the following day.  
 The Knabe was the house piano at Ellis Auditorium, Memphis,
where  Duke Ellington ,  Count Basie  and others performed, before
Pressley bought it and refurbished it in white.  
 The Challen cost 250 pounds in 1964, according to the book
“Recording the Beatles” by Brian Kehew and Kevin Ryan. It was
probably used by the Beatles in 1966 for the track “Tomorrow
Never Knows” on the “Revolver” album and by  Paul McCartney 
for the 1969 song “Old Brown Shoe.”  
 “It’s a raw piece,” Laurence Fisher, Bonhams’s specialist
head of mechanical music, said in an interview. “It’s one of
those pianos where you look at it and think, ‘Is that it?’ Then
you imagine  John Lennon  leaning against it, and you go, ‘Wow!’”  
 This particular model of Challen is known as a ‘jangle box’
or ‘tack’ instrument, owing to the optional tone controlled by a
third pedal. It was sold in the 1980s to a family for children
to learn to play.  
 “The children have grown up and it’s been sitting in a
corner,” Stephen Maycock, consultant in rock memorabilia at
Bonhams, said in an interview.  
 The piano on which Lennon wrote “Imagine” was bought by
the singer  George Michael  at auction for 1.7 million pounds with
fees in October 2000.  
 Churchill’s Teeth  
 A partial set of dentures used by  Winston Churchill , the
U.K.’s wartime Prime Minister, is being sold this week by an
auction house in Norfolk.  
 The gold-mounted upper false teeth, one of three sets
designed to mask a lisp, are being offered by  Keys Auctioneers 
with an estimate of 4,000 pounds to 5,000 pounds on July 29.
They have been entered by the son of Derek Cudlipp, the
technician who was commissioned to make them, said Keys.  
 Another set of dentures was buried with Churchill, and a
third is in the museum of the U.K.’s Royal College of Surgeons.  
 Devonshire’s Store  
 The  Duke of Devonshire  is the latest English aristocrat
looking to raise funds by clearing storerooms of his home.  
 Following the 21.1 million-pound success of the  Christie’s
International  July sale of paintings, furniture and more humble
bits and pieces from the Spencer family, the Duke is hoping to
raise at least 2.5 million pounds from an auction at  Sotheby’s .  
 The three-day Chatsworth attic sale, scheduled for Oct. 5-
7, includes furnishings from various properties that have been
stored at the Devonshires’ ancestral house in Derbyshire.  
 “When we moved into Chatsworth several years ago we found
the attics filled with the contents of other family homes from
generations past,” the Duke of Devonshire said in an e-mail.
“The proceeds will be used to further some projects both at
Chatsworth and on our other estates.”  
 The sale will include some of the William Kent-designed
fittings from Devonshire House, an early 18th-century mansion in
London’s Piccadilly that was demolished in the 1920s. A George
II white marble chimneypiece may fetch as much as 300,000
pounds.  
 The event, in classic attic-auction style, will also
feature lots such as ceramics and glass temptingly valued at as
little as 20 pounds.  
 Dinosaur Skeleton  
 For those who aren’t content with the stars’ pianos, a
Duke’s chimneypiece or Churchill’s teeth, how about a dinosaur’s
bones?  
 Sotheby’s  is to offer the Allosaurus remains in a Paris
sale on Oct. 5. The skeleton is 33 feet (10 meters) in length
and is estimated to fetch about 800,000 euros ($1.02 million),
the U.S.-based auction house said in an e-mail last night.  
 ( Scott Reyburn  writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Scott Reyburn  in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A white Knabe grand piano owned by Elvis Presley. The instrument was expected to fetch more than $1 million at auction and failed to sell. The piano, which was in the music room at Graceland from 1957 to 1969, was the centerpiece of the Elvis sale by Heritage Auction Galleries in Memphis on Aug. 14. Source: Heritage Auctions via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A Challen upright piano. The instrument is thought to have been played by the Beatles, Pink Floyd and other artists in Studio Three at the Abbey Road Studios, London, from the 1960s to the 1980s. Source: Bonhams via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The keyboard of a Challen upright piano. The instrument is thought to have been played by the Beatles, Pink Floyd and other artists in Studio Three at the Abbey Road Studios, London, from the 1960s to the 1980s. It was to be included in the "Pioneers of Popular Culture" auction on Aug. 15. Source: Bonhams via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Granary  
                       
                         
                           Sotheby's via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The Granary at the Duke of Devonshire's historic family house at Chatsworth in Derbyshire. The space was used to store furnishings from the family's demolished 18th century London home, Devonshire House, that will be included in Sotheby's "Chatsworth: The Attic Sale'' to be held in London on October 5 to October 7. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The Granary at the Duke of Devonshire's historic family house at Chatsworth in Derbyshire. The space was used to store furnishings from the family's demolished 18th century London home, Devonshire House, that will be included in Sotheby's "Chatsworth: The Attic Sale'' to be held in London on October 5 to October 7. Source: Sotheby's via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     An Allosaurus dinosaur skeleton. The skeleton was sold by Sotheby's in Paris for 1.3 million euros ($1.8 million), beating an estimate of 800,000 euros. Source: Sotheby's via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
