-- Biggs Turns to Buying Stocks Three Weeks After Cutting Holdings: Tom Keene
-- Tom Keene
-- 2010-07-26T21:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/biggs-says-he-s-75-net-long-on-stocks-after-changing-mind-on-risk-outlook.html

          
          
             Barton Biggs , the hedge fund manager
who sold half his equity holdings at the start of July, said
today that signs the U.S. economy will avoid a recession spurred
him to build the stakes back up.  
 Biggs, whose Traxis Partners LLC gained 38 percent in 2009
when he bought shares as the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell to
a 12-year low, said bets that stocks will advance make up 75
percent of his fund, up from about 35 percent three weeks ago.
Biggs said on July 2 that concern governments around the world
would curtail stimulus measures too soon led him to sell almost
all of his U.S. technology holdings.  
 “I’ve definitely changed my mind to the degree of risk out
there,” Biggs said in a radio interview with  Tom Keene  on
Bloomberg Surveillance. “Economic data around the world in the
last 10 days to two weeks has turned more positive. It has
exceeded forecasts almost without exception. The odds of the
world slumping into a significant slowdown has diminished.”  
 Stocks rose today, with the benchmark index for U.S.
equities advancing 1.1 percent to 1,115.01 as of 4:01 p.m. in
New York. The MSCI World Index climbed 1.1 percent.  
 The S&P 500 has rallied 8.2 percent this month after more
than 83 percent of companies reporting quarterly results topped
analysts’ estimates and government reports showed U.S. building
permits and factory production exceeded forecasts from
economists. Biggs said the largest U.S. companies will benefit
as the economy recovers, naming  Procter & Gamble Co. , Deere &
Co., Caterpillar Inc., Cisco Systems Inc. and Microsoft Corp.  
 Decent Environment  
 “The  environment  is fairly decent right now and there are
opportunities,” said Biggs, whose fund gained almost three
times the industry average last year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg and Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc. “You
are where  you are  and it’s a new day.”  
 P&G in Cincinnati climbed 4.2 percent this month after the
world’s largest consumer products company said on June 25 that
it aims to reach 1 billion more consumers. Peoria, Illinois-
based  Caterpillar  gained 17 percent as the world’s largest maker
of construction equipment raised its earnings forecast on higher
demand in developing countries for mining and rail equipment.  
 Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, rallied 13 percent
in July as the world’s largest  software maker  posted record
fourth-quarter revenue on July 23 after the most successful
debut of its flagship operating system.  
 IMF Growth Forecast  
 The International Monetary Fund boosted its forecast for
2010 global growth to 4.6 percent from 4.2 percent on July 8
after a stronger-than-expected first half. That would be the
largest gain since 2007.  
 Biggs’s reversal reflects the challenge facing professional
investors trying to gauge the global economic outlook after
concern Europe’s debt crisis will spread sent the S&P 500 down
13 percent in May and June.  Stocks  in the U.S. had fallen nine
times in 10 days when Biggs said he’d cut his holdings on July
2. The Labor Department said that day that private employers
added 83,000 people to payrolls in June, compared with an
estimate of 110,000 in a survey of economists by Bloomberg.  
 “I’m not putting my money into anything,” Biggs said at
the time. “I’ve taken basically all of it out in the U.S., and
we had a broader exposure to consumer stocks and just, in
general, I’ve reduced my net long position by about 30 or 40
percentage points.”  
 Equity Rebound  
 The S&P 500 advanced during the next six days, gaining 7.1
percent through July 13 as investors speculated corporate
profits would top analysts’ projections and metals increased.  
 Hedge funds, endowments and pensions pushed equities up to
68 percent of their holdings in July, the highest level in 15
months, from 63 percent in April, a Citigroup Inc. survey
showed. Institutions are preparing for a rally, according to
Citigroup’s questionnaire from 120 respondents among those
groups. Fifty-four percent said U.S. equities may gain up to 20
percent, compared with 50 percent in the last reading.  
 Hedge funds lost an average of 0.9 percent in June and 2.6
percent in May, according to the HFRX Global Hedge Fund Index,
as the European debt crisis triggered declines in stocks, the
euro and commodities.  
 Profits among S&P 500 companies may rise an average 34
percent in 2010 and 17 percent in 2011, the fastest two-year
growth since 1995, according to forecasts tracked by Bloomberg.
The S&P 500 trades at  14.9 times  annual earnings, compared with
an average of 16.5, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
since 1954. The index is cheaper relative to estimated earnings
for the next 12 months, with a multiple of 11.7, the data show.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas R. Keene  in New York 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       'I'm more optimistic'  
                       
                         
                           Morgan Stanley via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Morgan Stanley chief Global Strategist Barton Biggs. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Morgan Stanley chief Global Strategist Barton Biggs.  Source:  Morgan Stanley via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Barton Biggs, co-founder of Traxis Partners LP, discusses his investment strategy.
     Biggs talks with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt on Bloomberg Radio's "Bloomberg Surveillance." (This report is an excerpt of the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
