-- Blagojevich Tried to `Shake Down' Obama, Jury in Corruption Trial Is Told
-- Andrew M. Harris
-- 2010-07-26T23:24:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/blagojevich-tried-to-shake-down-obama-prosecutor-tells-jury-in-chicago.html

          
          
             Rod Blagojevich  is guilty of crimes
that include plotting to sell President  Barack Obama ’s former
senate seat, a prosecutor told a federal court jury in Chicago
during closing arguments at the Illinois ex-governor’s trial.  
 “He tried to shake down President-elect Barack Obama,”
Assistant U.S. Attorney  Christopher Niewoehner  said, referring
to an alleged scheme to gain something of value in exchange for
naming presidential adviser  Valerie Jarrett  to the seat.  
 Blagojevich conspired with his brother and codefendant
 Robert Blagojevich  and members of his inner circle to profit
from his office, Niewoehner said. The siblings face up to 20
years imprisonment if convicted on the most serious charges.  
 The twice-elected Democrat was arrested in December 2008
and later indicted for linking official acts, including
selecting the president’s Senate successor, to campaign
contributions and personal favors. He was removed from office
for abuse of power in January 2009 by the Illinois legislature.  
 U.S. District Judge  James B. Zagel  abruptly ended today’s
proceedings just before the closing comments of the ex-
governor’s lawyer, Sam Adam Jr.  
 Adam had told the judge he planned to talk about witnesses
the prosecution didn’t call. When Zagel told him not to, Adam
said he’d disobey at the risk of being jailed.  
 ‘In Contempt’  
 “If you don’t follow the order, you’ll be in contempt,”
Zagel said. The failure of one side to call witnesses either
side could have called isn’t evidence, the judge said.  
 Adam, who has been allotted 2 1/2 hours to deliver his
remarks, is now slated to close tomorrow.  
 The judge has said he will rule on a defense motion for
acquittal after the closings. Blagojevich lawyers argued that
the case was too weak to send to the jury.  
 Rod Blagojevich arrived at the court this morning with his
wife, Patti, and their daughters, Amy, 14, and Annie, 7. He
paused to sign autographs before going into the courtroom.  
 Spectators filled the courtroom and an overflow room, where
live audio was piped in. Niewoehner spoke for more than two
hours.  
 “I’ve got this thing, and it’s effing golden, and I’m not
giving it up for effing nothing,” Niewoehner said, quoting the
governor’s words from a wiretap recording played at the trial.
“This thing” referred to the Senate appointment.  
 ‘About Him’  
 “It was about him, the defendant, Rod Blagojevich, and not
the people of Illinois,” Niewoehner told the 12 jurors and five
alternates.  
 Bribery, the heart of the case, doesn’t require an exchange
of money, Niewoehner said. All that’s needed is a direct or
indirect request for something of value in exchange for an
official act, he said. “Attempts count,” he said.  
 Robert Blagojevich, 54, led the governor’s campaign finance
committee in 2008. He testified for two days. His brother’s
lawyer,  Michael Ettinger , called his client “a person of
honor” who had no criminal intent and asked the jury to acquit.  
 Ettinger told jurors his client had no knowledge of any
illegality and simply wanted to help his brother.  
 Rod Blagojevich discussed a quid pro quo for the Jarrett
appointment with a union leader,  Tom Balanoff , whom he wanted to
relay the request to the president, the prosecutor said.  
 Obama Shakedown  
 “Talking is the crime here,” Niewoehner said. “He tried
to shake down President-elect Barack Obama” for an appointment
as U.S. secretary of health and human services or the head of a
nonprofit organization, he the prosecutor said.  
 In the arguments last week on dismissal of the case, Rod
Blagojevich’s attorney Lauren Kaeseberg said the government’s
evidence was about discussions, not actions.  
 “What they’ve shown is a lot of talk,” she said on July
21. The former governor did not to testify. His lawyers rested
their case without calling him or any other witnesses.  
 Among the witnesses alluded to by prosecutors and not
called were former Blagojevich fundraiser Antoin “Tony” Rezko,
who was convicted for fraud in 2008 and Stuart Levine, a former
member of two state boards, who admitted to fraud and testified
against Rezko.  
 Adam told Zagel he “cannot effectively represent” the ex-
governor without mentioning missing witnesses in his closing.  
 “It doesn’t mean anything in and of itself,” Zagel
replied, “It’s just something floating around,” inviting the
jury to find against the lawyer who failed to present the
witnesses.  
 The case is U.S. v. Blagojevich, 08-cr-00888, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  
 For Related News and Information:
Stories on Blagojevich: NI ?13387439 BN <GO>
Today’s top legal stories: TLAW <GO>
Menu of Bloomberg legal resources: BLAW <GO>
Stories on crime and politics: TNI CRIME POL BN <GO>  
          
          


  


        