-- BP, British Airways, Vodafone, Dell in Court News (Update1)
-- Elizabeth Amon
-- 2010-07-26T12:23:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/bp-brightoil-british-airways-vodafone-dell-qatari-diar-in-court-news.html

          
          
             BP Plc  is suing six former members
of its energy team in Singapore claiming they misused
confidential information to help rival Shenzhen Brightoil Group
gain a “strategic advantage.”  
 The six, including Quek Chin Thean, formerly global head of
residues trading, and legal manager Simon Cheong, had “access
to and possessed intricate knowledge” of BP’s business and
commercial strategies and trade secrets, according to papers
filed with the Singapore High Court. Unauthorized disclosure of
the information would harm BP “immeasurably” and create a
“significant new competitor that is well aware of our trading
strategies,” BP said in the court filing.  
 Quek, who was “widely respected on the trading floor” and
seen “as one of the symbols for local leadership,” together
with Cheong orchestrated the mass departures at BP by offering
sign-on bonuses, according to court papers. Both men “actively
assisted” Brightoil, a direct rival, in setting up a competing
business while still in the London-based company’s employment,
BP said in the papers.  
 The six including Paul John Bradshaw, head of operations
eastern hemisphere, trading manager John Foo, regional marine
sales manager Clarence Chang, and executive assistance Laura
Kuan received a sign-on fee from Brightoil that constitutes a
“secret profit” and breaches their fiduciary and fidelity
duties and code of conduct to BP, the court papers showed.  
 The group had pledged not to compete with BP and act with
honesty and loyalty when they signed on their employment
contracts, BP said. Quek, who began working at BP in 1992, also
recruited three U.S.-based colleagues to Brightoil, according to
the lawsuit. Foo, Bradshaw and Kuan also made unauthorized
downloads from BP’s computer networks, BP said.  
 “Investigations are ongoing,” said Lau Lu Ching, a
Singapore-based spokeswoman at BP, declining to comment further.
Quek and Foo didn’t answer calls to their mobile phones. Shirley
Kwok at Brightoil’s investor relations department in Hong Kong
declined comment. Brightoil isn’t named as a defendant in this
lawsuit. The six have yet to file their defense as of July 23.  
 The case is BP Singapore Pte vs Quek Chin Thean & Anor
S482/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  
 For more, click here.  
 BaWang Sues Next Magazine for Defamation Over Shampoo Report  
 BaWang International (Group) Holding Ltd. , China’s largest
herbal shampoo maker, filed a complaint against Next Magazine
Publishing Ltd. over a report that said two of its products
contain a substance that may cause cancer.  
 BaWang is seeking unspecified damages from the weekly for
“defamation” and “malicious falsehood,” according to the
complaint filed in Hong Kong’s High Court July 21. It’s also
claiming compensation for loss of sales, it said.  
 Next Magazine Editor-in-Chief Lee Chi-ho wasn’t available
for comment.  
 BaWang , which uses movie star Jackie Chan and Chinese pop
singer Faye Wong to promote its products, slumped 23 percent
from July 14 to July 16 after the report said two of the
company’s products contain a substance that may cause cancer.
The company’s market capitalization declined by HK$3.9 billion
in those three trading days.  
 The herbal shampoo products don’t threaten consumers’
health, China’s State Food and Drug Administration said on July
16.  
 Madoff Trustee May Sue 1,000 Investors for Recovery, WSJ Says  
 Irving Picard , the lawyer appointed as trustee to recover
money for the victims of Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme, is
preparing lawsuits against as many as 1,000 investors who,
though they also were duped by the fraudster, were “net
winners” in that they withdrew more from Madoff’s firm than the
amount of principal they invested, the Wall Street Journal
reported.  
 In an interview with the newspaper, Picard said such people
“made money at the expense of those who didn’t.”  
 Picard must file “clawback” suits by December, the second
anniversary of Madoff’s arrest and the filing of regulatory
proceedings against him, the Journal said.  
 For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  
 Lawsuits/Pretrial  
 BA Seeks Order to Add Air France, 31 Others to Cartel Case  
 British Airways PLC  asked a U.K. court to add  Air France-
KLM Group ,  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd.  and 30 other carriers as
defendants in a lawsuit over a price-fixing cartel for air-
freight services.  
 British Airways made the request in the High Court in
London to protect itself against payments it may be ordered to
make in the case, according to a statement July 23 from  Hausfeld
& Co. LLP , the law firm for two flower importers who sued the
airline. The importers are seeking a class-action status.  
 “We hope that this will be a positive move in that it will
encourage airlines to recognize their European liability to
shippers and to start the process of making sensible commercial
settlements,” Anthony Maton of Hausfeld said in the statement.  
 British Airways in 2007 pleaded guilty to conspiring to set
extra charges on passenger and cargo flights and was fined $300
million in the U.S. Dozens of carriers have been investigated by
antitrust regulators worldwide since 2006, when the U.S. and the
European Union started probing the industry.  
 “We will continue to contest any class actions brought by
cargo customers,” spokeswoman Cathy West said July 23 in an
interview. She declined to comment on the carrier’s request.  
 Air France spokeswoman Brigitte Barrand declined to
comment. Elin Wong, a Cathay Pacific spokeswoman didn’t respond
to an e-mail seeking comment, outside of regular office hours.  
 L’Oreal Heiress Loses Bid to Block Media Use of Butler’s Tapes  
 L’Oreal SA  heiress Liliane Bettencourt lost her bid to
block media use of recordings that sparked a political scandal
and led police to seek to question a member of President Nicolas
Sarkozy’s government.  
 The Paris court of appeals ruled July 23 that Bettencourt’s
right to privacy wasn’t violated, upholding a lower-court ruling
issued earlier this month.  
 The ruling noted the excerpts used by news website
 Mediapart  and the magazine  Le Point  focused on the management of
Bettencourt’s assets, a “legitimate” issue for public interest
because she is “the biggest stakeholder in one of the biggest
French companies,” according to the six-page ruling by Judge
Alain Girardet. They touched on matters “which have been the
object of a great number of public discussions.”  
 The recordings, made by Bettencourt’s former butler,
provided a window into the life of Europe’s richest woman and
sparked a political storm over alleged campaign-finance law
violations, tax evasion and influence peddling that has reached
both Sarkozy and Labor Minister Eric Woerth.  
 The tapes, made between May 2009 and May 2010, were turned
over to Bettencourt’s only child, who gave them to police.
Mediapart and Le Point published transcripts, audio files and
articles about the recordings just before a trial on the
daughter’s claims her mother was manipulated into giving away 1
billion euros ($1.28 billion) in gifts to a photographer friend.  
 “We are very disappointed,” Bettencourt’s lawyer Thierry
Marembert said. “I believe the reasoning is erroneous” in not
applying the protection of privacy to all private conversations.  
 Bettencourt was joined in her suit to block continued use
of the recordings by Patrice de Maistre, general director of
Thethys SAS. The company manages the Bettencourt family’s nearly
 31 percent stake  in L’Oreal, a cosmetics company founded by
Bettencourt’s father.  
 Marembert said his client is “seriously considering”
pursuing an appeal to France’s highest court.  
 Pascal Wilhelm, the lawyer for de Maistre didn’t return a
call for comment on the ruling.  
 For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest trial
and appeals news, click here.  
 Verdicts/Settlements  
 Vodafone Pays 1.25 Billion Pounds to Settle U.K. Tax Lawsuit  
 Vodafone Group Plc , the world’s biggest mobile-phone
company, agreed to pay 1.25 billion pounds ($1.93 billion) to
the U.K. to settle a lawsuit over taxation of its European units
based outside of Britain.  
 The deal with  U.K. Revenue & Customs  calls for 800 million
pounds to be paid in the current financial year with the rest to
be paid in installments over the next five years, Vodafone said
July 23 in a statement about its first-quarter earnings.  
 Vodafone set aside 2.2 billion pounds to cover tax payments
and interest in the case, the company said last year after it
lost a Court of Appeal ruling. The dispute involved Vodafone’s
Luxembourg unit and Britain’s so-called Controlled Foreign
Companies laws relating to U.K. corporations that have units in
European Union countries with lower tax rates.  
 “No further U.K. CFC tax liabilities will arise in the
near future under current legislation,” Newbury, England-based
Vodafone said in the statement. “Longer term, no CFC
liabilities are expected to arise as a consequence of the likely
reforms of the U.K. CFC regime.”  
 HMRC spokesman Patrick O’Brien didn’t return a call for
comment.  
 Dell Pays $100 Million in SEC Accord That Lets Founder Stay  
 Dell Inc.  agreed to pay $100 million to resolve a U.S.
regulator’s accounting fraud claims in an accord that lets
founder Michael Dell remain chief executive officer after paying
a $4 million fine.  
 Dell, 45, and the personal-computer maker failed to tell
investors about “exclusivity payments” received from  Intel
Corp.  in exchange for not using products made by the chipmaker’s
main rival, the Securities and Exchange Commission said in a
complaint at federal court in Washington July 22. The payments
allegedly helped Dell reach earnings targets from 2001 to 2006.  
 “Accuracy and completeness are the touchstones of public
company disclosure under the federal securities laws,” SEC
Enforcement Director Robert Khuzami said in the agency’s
statement. “Michael Dell and other senior Dell executives fell
short of that standard repeatedly over many years.”  
 The settlement helps Dell resolve inquiries about the role
payments from Intel played in its financial results and those of
other PC makers. The payments were at issue in a private
antitrust lawsuit filed against Intel by chipmaker  Advanced
Micro Devices Inc. , a New York state probe of Intel’s business
practices, and a Federal Trade Commission lawsuit filed against
Intel in December. Dell, based in Round Rock, Texas, said on
June 10 that it had set aside $100 million for the settlement.  
 Dell’s former CEO, Kevin Rollins, 57, and James Schneider,
57, the company’s former chief financial officer, agreed to pay
fines of $4 million and $3 million, respectively. Schneider was
suspended from appearing or practicing before the SEC as an
accountant for five years. The SEC, as urged by the company in
its settlement proposal, spared Michael Dell similar punishment.  
 “We are pleased to have resolved this matter,” Michael
Dell said in a statement. “We are committed to maintaining
clear and accurate reporting of our periodic results, supporting
our customers, and executing our growth strategies.”  
 Calls to Michael Mann, an attorney for Rollins, and Neil
Eggleston, a lawyer for Schneider, weren’t returned.  
 For more, click here.  
 Billionaire Anschutz Loses Ruling Over $144 Million Tax Bill  
 Denver billionaire Philip Anschutz lost a fight with the
Internal Revenue Service over a $143.8 million personal and
company tax bill for 2000 and 2001.  
 The  U.S. Tax Court  in Washington found July 22 that
Anschutz Co. was required to recognize built-in gains upon
entering into an agreement to sell shares to an investment bank,
while also lending the same shares to the bank.  
 Anschutz filed a petition after the IRS challenged his use
of 13 transactions that he claimed deferred capital gains taxes
related to his company’s merger of  Union Pacific Corp.  and
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp.  in 2000. The transactions being
challenged occurred from May 2000 to April 2001.  
 Anschutz Co. will appeal the court decision, the company
said July 22 in an e-mailed statement.  
 The company, acting on legal advice, determined the capital
gains taxes didn’t need to be paid until the agreements matured
and the transactions settled 10 to 11 years from the time they
were put in place, Anschutz Co. said.  
 The case tested a 2003 IRS ruling that pledging shares as
collateral for a so-called variable prepaid forward  contract 
doesn’t amount to a sale of assets for tax purposes.  
 A prepaid forward contract gives an investor an upfront
payment in exchange for delivery of an asset in the future. The
contracts have grown in popularity among corporate executives
looking to lock in stock gains while delaying tax.  
 Qatari Diar Settles Chelsea Barracks Suit With CPC  
 The real-estate investment arm of Qatar’s sovereign-wealth
fund settled a lawsuit with U.K. developer  CPC Group Ltd.  over a
failed deal to redevelop London’s landmark Chelsea Barracks
site.  
 CPC, controlled by entrepreneur Christian Candy, accused
Qatari Diar of wrongfully backing out of the deal to avoid
upsetting Prince Charles, who had complained about the plan’s
design. Under the settlement, Candy dissolved his interest in
the deal and apologized for “any offense” caused by bringing
the Prince of Wales into the case, the companies said July 23.  
 CPC “will no longer have any interest in, or involvement
with, the former Chelsea Barracks site,” the companies said in
the statement. The site “is owned entirely by Qatari Diar.”
Financial terms weren’t disclosed.  
 A joint venture of CPC and Qatari Diar paid 959 million
pounds ($1.47 billion) for  Chelsea Barracks  in January 2008. In
November of that year, Qatari Diar bought out CPC’s stake for an
initial payment of about 38 million pounds and agreed to make 81
million pounds in deferred payments, CPC said.  
 Judge Geoffrey Vos ruled on June 25 that Qatari Diar had
wrongfully backed out of the deal and said the parties’
suspicions of each other were “exaggerated.”  
 Candy also apologized to Qatar’s prime minister, Sheikh
Hamad bin Jassim bin Jabr Al Thani, and Qatari Diar Managing
Director Ghanim bin Saad Al Saad for “any offense” caused by
the lawsuit, according to the statement.  
 For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        