-- Khmer Rouge Warden Duch Sentenced to 30 Years for Cambodian Killing Fields
-- Daniel Ten Kate
-- 2010-07-26T10:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/cambodia-court-to-rule-on-khmer-rouge-s-top-prison-warden-in-mass-killings.html

          
          
             The Khmer Rouge’s top jailer was
sentenced to 30 years in prison for overseeing the “shocking
and heinous” murder and torture of more than 12,000 inmates at
the genocidal Cambodian regime’s  Tuol Sleng prison .  
 The verdict by the United Nations-backed tribunal on Kang
Kek Ieu, better known as Duch, marks the first conviction in a
13-year effort to bring to book the leaders of a regime blamed
for the deaths of a quarter of the population. The converted
school in the capital, Phnom Penh, was the most notorious prison
in a network  targeting  the educated elite as the movement tried
to create an agrarian society starting at Year Zero.  
 “I could never forget the suffering that I received until
the day that I die,” Chum Mey, who had his toenails ripped out
and was one of only a handful of survivors of the jail, told the
court. “Once justice can be done, then I would feel better.”  
 Many Cambodians are too young to remember the Khmer Rouge
reign from 1975 to 1979, with a third of the  country’s  14.2
million people under the age of 15. The regime’s leaders lived
freely in Cambodia for years until the government  requested 
United Nations assistance in 1997 to start a tribunal to seek
justice for the estimated 1.7 million deaths they caused.  
 Four older and more senior leaders are also in custody and
facing trial before the  Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of
Cambodia , including former head of state  Khieu Samphan , 78, ex-
foreign minister  Ieng Sary , 84, his wife  Ieng Thirith , 78, and
 Nuon Chea , 84, the movement’s second-in-command. Khmer Rouge
leader  Pol Pot  and military chief  Ta Mok  have died.  
 Political Trials  
 Those trials have “larger implications and involve larger
interests” because they may expose the roles of China, Thailand
and the U.S. in the Khmer Rouge era and entangle members of the
current government, Theary Seng said. She called Duch’s case “a
cake walk” by comparison.  
 The court found Duch guilty of  charges  involving pre-
meditated murder, torture, rape and enslavement.  
 Fifty-five witnesses testified at the trial, including
victims who talked about how prison officials tortured them with
electric shocks, suffocation and beatings. Guards smashed babies
against tree trunks and forced prisoners to eat feces, according
to  testimony  during the trial.  
 Judges noted “character of the offenses, which were
perpetrated against at least 12,273 victims over a prolonged
period,” according to the verdict, read by Trial Chamber
President Nil Nonn.  
 “The sentence should make it inconceivable for a 67-year-
old man to again walk the streets free for even one hour,” said
 Theary Seng , whose parents were killed under the Khmer Rouge and
who now runs a human rights group.  
 Image Boost  
 At the start of the trial in March 2009, Duch accepted
blame and apologized to survivors and victims’ families.
Cooperating with the court was the “only remedy that can help
me to relieve all of the sorrow of the crimes that I have
committed,” the former math teacher, who converted to
Christianity in 1996, told the court according to a  transcript .  
 Judges reduced Duch’s 35-year sentence because he was
unlawfully detained from 1999 to 2007, according to a live
broadcast of the proceedings. Prosecutors had sought a 40-year
sentence.  
 Anything less than a 40-year sentence “would be a
completely and utterly inadequate response,” William Smith, one
of the prosecutors,  told judges  at the final court hearing in
November. Duch has been detained since his arrest in 1999.  
 “The chamber considers that a reduction of the above
sentence of five years is appropriate given the violation of the
Kaing Kek Iev’s rights by this illegal detention” from 1999 to
2007, the verdict said.  
 U.S. Bombing  
 The Khmer Rouge took power after a  U.S. bombing campaign 
during the Vietnam War stirred discontent in the countryside
against General  Lon Nol’s  coup-installed government. Led by  Pol Pot , the regime evacuated Phnom Penh to put people to work on
farms and closed all schools, universities and monasteries.
Money, markets and private property were abolished.  
 The regime collapsed in 1979 when Vietnam invaded and took
the capital. The U.S. and China backed the Khmer Rouge to
continue representing Cambodia at the United Nations, providing
the regime legitimacy until 1993, when the first post-conflict
elections were held.  
 The landmark ruling may help boost the image of Southeast
Asia’s  second-poorest country , which has encouraged foreign
investment to increase incomes that average $1.90 per day. The
government aims to open a stock exchange within the year after a
decade in which annual economic growth  averaged  8 percent.  
 Cambodia attracted $593 million in foreign direct
investment last year, a 10th that of neighboring Thailand,
according to the  Asian Development Bank . Chevron Corp., the
second-biggest U.S. oil company, and BHP Billiton Ltd., the
world’s largest mining company, have investments in the country.  
 The U.S. this month  co-hosted  the first large-scale
military drill in Cambodia involving field training for
peacekeeping. Beijing provided Cambodia with 257 military trucks
last month after the U.S. halted a similar shipment in April to
protest the deportation of 20 Uigher asylum seekers to China.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        