-- Cameron Vows to Support Turkish Quest to Join European Union
-- Kitty Donaldson
-- 2010-07-27T11:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/cameron-says-it-s-just-wrong-for-others-to-oppose-turkish-eu-membership.html

          
          
             U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
called on other European Union nations to drop their objections
to Turkey’s joining the 27-nation bloc.  
 “I will remain your strongest possible advocate for EU
membership and for greater influence at the top table of
European diplomacy,” Cameron said in a speech in the Turkish
capital, Ankara, today. “Together, I want us to pave the road
from Ankara to Brussels.”  
 Cameron’s call puts him at odds with French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , both
opponents of Turkish membership. Mounting opposition in the EU
to letting in a predominantly Muslim country has provoked
growing indifference in Turkey. Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  has pursued a less western-oriented foreign policy,
seeking closer links with Iran and downgrading ties with Israel.  
 “When I think about what Turkey has done to defend Europe
as a NATO ally, and what Turkey is doing today in Afghanistan
alongside our European allies, it makes me angry that your
progress towards EU membership can be frustrated in the way it
has been,” Cameron said. “It’s just wrong to say Turkey can
guard the camp but not be allowed to sit inside the tent.”  
 Cameron began a four-day foreign tour in Ankara last night
that will also take him to India, accompanied by Barclays Plc
Chief Executive Officer  John Varley , Vodafone Group Plc CEO
 Vittorio Colao  and more than 30 other executives from U.K.
companies, as he seeks to put trade at the center of British
foreign policy.  
 Trade Goal  
 Cameron said he wants to double U.K. trade with Turkey,
currently $9 billion a year, over the next five years.  
 “We cannot let the protectionists win,” he said. “The
truth is that trade is the biggest wealth creator we’ve ever
known, and it’s the biggest stimulus we can give our economies
right now.”  
 Erdogan, speaking at a joint press conference with Cameron
after the two leaders held talks in Ankara, said relations
between Britain and Turkey were entering a “golden age.”  
 Cameron said he was struck by the “immense pace” of
Turkish economic growth, which accelerated to an annual 11.7
percent in the first quarter, the most in almost six years. The
economy was on course to exceed those of Canada, Spain and
Italy by 2025, he said.  
 Rising Opposition  
 Opposition to Turkey’s entry rose in nine of 11 EU
countries surveyed by a U.S. research institute, the German
Marshall Fund, last September. Around 48 percent of people in
France want to keep Turkey out. Merkel said on a visit to Ankara
in March that deepening ties among EU members made it more
difficult for Turkey to meet conditions for joining the bloc.  
 German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  told  Bild
newspaper  today that Turkey isn’t “capable of joining” at
present, “but we have a great interest in seeing Turkey orient
itself toward Europe.”  
 Turkey “has an impressive constituency of favourable
countries backing its joining the EU - the U.K., Sweden,
Finland, Spain, Portugal and Italy as well as Bulgaria and
Romania,”  Fadi Hakura , a Turkey analyst at the Chatham House
research institute in London, said in an interview. “It needs
the U.K. to mobilize that coalition.”  
 ‘Polarized, Prejudiced’  
 In his speech, Cameron attacked those who see Turkey as an
economic threat, “the polarized,” who think Turkey has to
choose between East and West, and “the prejudiced, those who
wilfully misunderstand Islam” and who “see no difference
between real Islam and the distorted version of the
extremists.”  
 President  Barack Obama  traveled to Turkey last year for his
first visit to a Muslim country and used a speech in Ankara to
say the U.S. isn’t “at war with Islam.”  
 EU accession talks in eight areas have been frozen since
2006 to punish Turkey for barring air and sea traffic from EU
member Cyprus, the Greek-speaking Mediterranean republic whose
northern part has been occupied by Turkey’s army since 1974.  
 A Marshall Fund survey last year found that just 32 percent
of Turks held a favorable view of joining the EU, while only 34
percent felt they share common values with the West.  
 “I’m not asking you to be a different country, to abandon
your values, your traditions or your culture,” Cameron said.
“But we want you to push forwards aggressively with the EU
reforms you’re making.”  
 Split Over Iran  
 It’s Cameron’s fifth overseas trip since taking office in
May. After visits to France, Germany, Afghanistan and the U.S.,
the decision to go to Turkey reflects the importance the U.K.
attaches to its relationship with the country, Cameron’s office
said in an e-mail.  
 Turkey voted last month in the United Nations Security
Council against imposing new nuclear sanctions on Iran. It
previously brokered with Brazil a nuclear-fuel deal with the
Iranians that the U.S. dismissed as a “transparent ploy” to
avoid sanctions.  
 Cameron denied Turkey’s opposition to new curbs on Iran
would hinder relations, saying Britain and Turkey shared the
same goal. “We have very many shared interests,” Cameron told
reporters. “Of course there will be different perspectives but
on Iran we want to see Iran without nuclear weapons.”  
 The prime minister also urged Turkey to “remain a friend
of Israel.” Relations between the two nations were strained
after Israeli troops killed nine Turkish activists on an aid
convoy bound for the Gaza Strip.  
 Cameron condemned the attack as “completely unacceptable”
and said Gaza “cannot and must not be allowed to remain a
prison camp” with restrictions on the flow of humanitarian
goods and people in and out of the Palestinian territory.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in Ankara at  kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Cameron Urges Acceptance of Turkey to EU  
                       
                         
                           Jock Fistick/Bloomberg 
                         
                         David Cameron's call for acceptance of Turkey puts him at odds with Nicolas Sarkozy and Angela Merkel. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     David Cameron's call for acceptance of Turkey puts him at odds with Nicolas Sarkozy and Angela Merkel. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
