-- Carlos Slim Barred From Acquiring Debt of Grupo Televisa's Cable Unit
-- Crayton Harrison
-- 2010-07-26T21:22:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/carlos-slim-barred-from-acquiring-debt-of-grupo-televisa-s-cable-unit.html

          
          
             JPMorgan Chase & Co.  can’t transfer
a loan obligation of Grupo Televisa SA’s cable unit to a bank
controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , a federal judge said.  
 A federal judge in New York in February initially halted
the transfer after  Empresas Cablevision SA  complained that
assigning the loan to Slim’s Banco Inbursa SA might reveal
Cablevision’s confidential information to a rival cable company
owned by Slim. JPMorgan then complained Empresas Cablevision
breached a credit agreement.  
 The parties agreed to the order after JPMorgan said it
would repurchase from Inbursa the 90 percent interest in the
loan, Televisa said today in a statement. U.S. District Judge
 Jed Rakoff , in the order dated July 23, also barred JPMorgan
from sharing information with Inbursa regarding private
information received from Cablevision related to the loan.  
 “It is an important decision both for the enforcement of
borrower’s veto rights under credit agreements and for requiring
financial services institutions to act responsibly on behalf of
their customers,”  Salvi Folch , chief financial officer of
Televisa, said in a statement.  
 JPMorgan, the second-biggest U.S. bank, had asked Rakoff to
order Cablevision to consent to assigning 90 percent of the $225
million loan to Banco Inbursa.  
 The Televisa unit got the loan in December 2007 to buy
Bestel SA, which operated a fiber-optic network in Mexico.
JPMorgan originally intended to syndicate the loan but didn’t do
so in 2008 because of the deteriorating credit market, according
to Rakoff’s earlier ruling. Last year, the bank started efforts
to sell the loan to Inbursa.  
 A spokeswoman for Slim didn’t immediately return phone and
e-mail messages.  Justin Perras , a spokesman for JPMorgan,
declined to comment.  
 The case is Empresas Cablevision v. JPMorgan, 09-9972, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net ;
 Crayton Harrison  in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        