-- As Carlos Slim Eyes Brazil's Net, Debt Rating Converges with Movil
-- Ye Xie
-- 2010-07-26T22:46:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/carlos-slim-saves-money-for-brazil-s-net-servicos-as-bid-may-boost-rating.html

          
          
             Speculation that billionaire  Carlos Slim  will buy  Net Servicos de Comunicacao SA , Brazil’s biggest
cable-TV provider, is driving down the company’s borrowing costs
relative to  America Movil SA  from a record high.  
 The gap between the yield on Net’s 7.5 percent bonds due in
2020 and 5 percent notes maturing the same year sold by Slim’s
America Movil shrank 50 basis points, or 0.5 percentage point,
in the past two months to 200, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 The difference will narrow further because Sao Paulo-based
Net may have its credit rating upgraded should America Movil
increase its current 49 percent share and take a controlling
stake, according to Credit Suisse Group AG. An America Movil
unit said in a May 26 regulatory filing that a law change
allowing foreign companies to control Brazilian cable-TV
operators would give it the right to  boost  its Net stake to 51
percent through a local subsidiary.  
 “The bond has significant potential in terms of moving up
the credit curve,” said  Luz Padilla , who manages developing-
nation debt at DoubleLine Capital LP in Los Angeles. “The fact
that it has Carlos Slim in the capital structure is obviously a
plus.”  
 Net, which aims to offer packages of mobile, home-phone,
video and Internet service to customers, is rated BB+ by
Standard & Poor’s, one step below investment grade, and an
equivalent  Ba1  by Moody’s Investors Service. Mexico City-based
America Movil, Latin America’s largest wireless carrier, is
rated A-,  four levels  higher, by S&P and A2 by Moody’s, a
difference of five grades.  
 ‘Too Wide’  
 The yield on Net’s $350 million of 2020 bonds dropped 78
basis points since the end of May to 6.55 percent, the lowest
level since the company sold the securities in October. Net has
 2.2 billion reais  ($1.2 billion) of debt.  
 America Movil’s bonds yield 4.4 percent, down 51 basis
points since May.  
 The so-called Z-spread between the companies’ bonds may
narrow to 150 basis points from about 235 earlier this month,
said  Alejandro Luciano  a corporate debt analyst with Credit
Suisse. The gauge measures the bonds’ risk premium versus the
U.S. Treasury yield curve.  
 The gap is “a bit too wide for a company owned by America
Movil,” Luciano said. He said rating companies will probably
give Net Servicos an investment-grade rating if America Movil
becomes majority stakeholder. “If they get upgraded, the bond
has more upside,” he said.  
 Eduardo Barker , a Moody’s spokesman in New York, and Sao
Paulo-based S&P analyst  Milena Zaniboni  declined to comment.  
 Senate Debate  
 Slim, who passed Bill Gates and Warren Buffett for the top
spot on Forbes magazine’s annual list of billionaires, is
waiting for Brazil’s Congress to modify a law preventing foreign
control of a cable-TV company. The lower house passed a bill
permitting foreign ownership on May 5. The Senate will likely
take up the legislation after presidential and congressional
elections in October, said Senator Demostenes Torres.  
 America Movil’s Rio de Janeiro-based  Embratel
Participacoes SA  unit owns 49 percent of voting shares and all
the non-voting shares in the holding company that controls Net,
according to the May 26 regulatory filing.  
 “It’s too early to price as if it’s an investment grade,”
said  Natalia Corfield , a corporate debt analyst at ING Groep NV
in New York. A change in the foreign ownership law is “very
uncertain” because of the elections, she said. “A lot of
things can delay the process.”  
 Default Swaps  
 A spokeswoman with Mexico City-based America Movil declined
to comment. A Sao Paulo-based spokeswoman for Net didn’t respond
to a request for comment.  
 The average yield gap on Brazilian corporate dollar bonds
over U.S. Treasuries declined 10 basis points to 323 last week,
according to JPMorgan’s  CEMBI index .  
 The extra  yield  investors demand to hold Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. securities fell six
basis points to 204, according to JPMorgan. The spread has
dropped three straight weeks, the longest streak since November.  
 The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps dropped four basis
points to 116, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 Rate Futures  
 Yields on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contract due in
January fell 0.5 basis point to 10.89 percent. The yield fell 12
basis points last week after a policy meeting in which central
bankers raised the benchmark overnight rate a less-than-forecast
50 basis points to 10.75 percent. All but three of the 51
economists in a Bloomberg survey predicted a 75 basis-point
increase.  
 The real rose 0.7 percent to 1.7624 per dollar.  
 Net’s bonds yield 233 basis points more than Brazilian
government notes due in 2019, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The spread narrowed from a record 260 in November.  
 “When you buy this bond, you are getting a very solid
company in which you can obtain relatively good yields versus
the sovereign, for example,” said DoubleLine’s Padilla, who has
covered emerging markets for 16 years. “And you can get
potential upside.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gabrielle Coppola  in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net 
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim. Photographer: David Rochkind/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
