-- Cattle Numbers in Australian Feedlots Increase 11% on Processor Demand
-- Wendy Pugh
-- 2010-07-26T03:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/cattle-numbers-in-australian-feedlots-increase-11-on-processor-demand.html

          
          
             Cattle numbers in feedlots in
Australia, the second-largest beef exporter, rose 11 percent in
the June quarter boosted by processor demand and larger-than-
expected sorghum supplies, according to an industry survey.  
 Numbers increased to 790,772 at the end of the quarter
compared with 711,198 three months earlier, the Sydney-based
 Australian Lot Feeders’ Association  and Meat & Livestock
Australia said in the survey e-mailed today.  
 Demand from processers seeking feedlot cattle was boosted
as rainfall in eastern states this year revived pasture growth,
curbing supply from grazing herds, according to the association.
Planting of sorghum, fed to livestock placed in feedlots,
dropped last season because of dry weather, according to the
Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics.  
 “The northern sorghum crop proved better-than-expected
and export sorghum demand was only modest, leaving sufficient
supplies to encourage cattle placements in northern New South
Wales and Queensland,” lot feeders’ association President Jim
Cudmore said in a statement. The two states accounted for about
86 percent of the total feedlot numbers, the survey showed.  
 Grain-fed beef exports declined two percent during the
period compared with the previous year, with shipments to Japan
falling 6 percent and exports to South Korea rising 28 percent,
Meat and Livestock Australia Chief Economist  Peter Weeks  said.  
 Almost two-thirds of Australian feedlot production is
destined for export markets, according to the lot feeders group.
Brazil is the world’s largest beef shipper.  
 The  Eastern Young Cattle Indicator , which measures auction
prices in the nation’s east, reached A$3.588 ($3.21) a kilogram
on July 22, the highest since October 2008, according to Meat &
Livestock data.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        