-- Shoppers in Flip-Flops Drop $245,000 on Salander Home Leftovers
-- Philip Boroff
-- 2010-07-26T14:54:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/cheerful-shoppers-in-flip-flops-spend-245-000-on-salander-home-leftovers.html

          
          
             Ten days before art dealer  Lawrence Salander  is scheduled be sentenced to prison for fraud and grand
larceny, the contents of his Millbrook, New York, home were
liquidated in an oddly festive auction.  
 Weekenders competed against antique dealers at  Stair
Galleries , in Hudson, New York, 115 miles north of Manhattan, on
Saturday. Just two of 251 lots didn’t sell. The $245,000 total
easily topped Stair’s high pre-sale estimate of $148,000.  
 The three-hour affair, replete with complimentary bagels
and sandwiches, was to benefit creditors of Salander’s personal
bankruptcy case.  
 Most items generated multiple bids, but it’s unclear how
prices compared with what Salander paid in the international
shopping spree that preceded his collapse.  
 The two top lots were a black  Steinway  baby grand piano and
a large Chinese decorative vase, each for $10,000. (All prices
exclude the 15 percent buyer’s commission, or 17 percent when
paying by credit card.)  
 “I’m thrilled,” said Thomas Genova, the trustee
overseeing Salander’s personal bankruptcy. “It was a great
sale.”  
 Bidders at the second-floor salesroom wore shorts, running
sneakers, flip-flops, madras shirts and oversized summer hats.  
 Canines in tow largely got along, including a greyhound,
Labrador, Irish terrier and Stair’s resident bullmastiff, Duke.
Colin Stair, Stair Galleries’ president, said there were several
telephone bidders in Europe.  
 More Sales  
 Additional sales are likely. Although Salander and his
Salander-O’Reilly Galleries filed for bankruptcy in November
2007 amid a cascade of lawsuits, more than 2,000 artworks
recovered from the now-defunct Upper East Side gallery remain
unsold. And Genova is in talks with mortgage holders First
Republic Bank and  Wells Fargo & Co. ’s Wachovia unit about a
September auction of Salander’s 66-acre Millbrook home, which
has been listed for sale at $4.5 million.  
 Salander, 61, has been living in an apartment over a
gallery he operates in Millbrook.  
 The first lot on Saturday went to  Tracie Rozhon , a former
New York Times reporter, who a day earlier closed on a house
with her husband in Albany. She paid $425 for a pair of Ming-
style celadon vase lamps, but was stymied when she pursued a
 Herend  porcelain dinner set.  
 “It was estimated at $150 to $200,” she said. “I got
outbid at $2,000.”  
 Candlesticks known as pricket sticks were also hot. A pair
of Italian baroque brass ones went for $2,500. Another pair sold
for $2,800.  
 “Who knew pricket sticks were so popular?” said Stair
auctioneer Rebecca Hoffmann, in an interview. “It was just
hilarious after a while.”  
 Lawyer Portrait  
 Paintings that Salander created also attracted fierce
bidding, with a 2008 portrait of one his former bankruptcy
lawyers (“Johnny Moscow Truth Defender”) selling for $500 and
the 1999 landscape “Top of the Mountain” going for $800.  
 Ron Gersten, who worked for Salander in the late 1980s and
early 1990s, said the dealer told him in a recent telephone
conversation that Michelangelo may have been behind some of the
pricket sticks. Gersten said Salander also thought that
Donatello may have created a plaster Madonna and Child that
Gersten bought for $6,500 at the sale. (The Stair catalog
doesn’t attribute either to any artist.)  
 Salander declared bankruptcy amid lawsuits alleging that he
sold works he didn’t own and pocketed proceeds. There were also
allegations that he misrepresented the provenance of works and
engaged in fraudulent art-related investment schemes.  
 In March 2010, he pleaded guilty to stealing $120 million
from such clients as  John McEnroe  and  Robert De Niro . He’s to be
sentenced on Aug. 3.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Philip Boroff  in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     "Foothills Sunset," by Lawrence Salander. The work, with other property from the former art dealer's home in Millbrook, New York, was auctioned by Stair Galleries on July 24, 2010. The work sold for $425. Source: Stair Galleries via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A Massachusetts Chippendale bureau of mahogany wood. The piece, with other property from the Millbrook, New York, home of art dealer Lawrence Salander, was auctioned at Stair Galleries on July 24. The item sold for $6,500. Source: Stair Galleries via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     "Benny Breaking Sky," by art dealer Lawrence Salander. The work, with other property from Salander's home in Millbrook, New York, was auctioned by Stair Galleries on July 24, 2010. The work sold for $475. Source: Stair Galleries via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Art dealer Lawrence Salander. Salander, 61, is scheduled to be sentenced on Aug. 3,
five and a half months after he pleaded guilty to stealing $120 million from clients and investors. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The driveway leading to the Salander house at Deep Hollow Farm is shown in Millbrook, New York. The contents of his Millbrook, New York, home were liquidated in an oddly festive auction. Photographer: Lindsay Pollock/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
