-- Chevron Seeks 2011 Australia Environmental Approval for Wheatstone Project
-- James Paton
-- 2010-07-26T07:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/chevron-says-wheatstone-project-may-produce-25-million-tons-of-lng-a-year.html

          
          
             Chevron Corp.  expects its Wheatstone
gas project in Australia to gain environmental approval in the
first quarter of 2011, allowing the second-largest U.S. energy
producer to start construction in the second half of next year.  
 The liquefied natural gas venture may have as many as six
processing units and produce as much as 25 million metric tons
of the fuel a year, Chevron Australia said in an  environmental
review  filed on its website today. Each Wheatstone unit will be
capable of producing 4 million to 7 million tons annually.  
 Chevron aims to make a decision to proceed with Wheatstone
in the middle of next year, a development timeline shows. The
Wheatstone and Gorgon projects, among more than a dozen proposed
LNG ventures in Australia targeting an increase in Asian demand
for cleaner-burning fuel, are “centerpieces” of  Chevron’s 
global growth plans, the company says on its local website.  
 “The Wheatstone project is set to be one of Australia’s
largest resources projects,” generating about A$20 billion ($18
billion) in government revenue, Chevron Australia said in
comments e-mailed by Perth-based spokesman Guy Houston. The
company has yet to provide a cost estimate for the venture.  
 The A$43 billion Gorgon project, which Chevron says is
Australia’s largest resources development, is due to begin LNG
exports in 2014 from a three-unit, 15 million ton-a-year
facility and may add a fourth and fifth processing unit.  
 Korea Gas Corp. , the world’s largest importer of LNG,
signed an initial accord this month to buy 1.5 million tons of
the fuel a year from Wheatstone and to acquire a 5 percent stake
in the venture, which will have processing facilities near the
town of Onslow, 1,400 kilometers (870 miles) north of Perth.
Tokyo Electric Power Co. plans to take 4.1 million tons of LNG a
year from Wheatstone, under a deal announced in December.  
 Wheatstone will include a domestic gas plant that will have
a capacity equal to about 15 percent of LNG sales, Chevron said
in the documents today. The project may employ 3,000 workers at
the peak of construction in 2014 and generate 6,500 “direct and
indirect” jobs while it is being built, the company said. First
LNG shipments are planned for 2016, according to Chevron.  
 The project needs environmental approvals from both the
Australian and Western Australian state governments.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        