-- Chilean Peso Gains as U.S. Home Sales Boost Stocks, Copper Extends Gain
-- Sebastian Boyd
-- 2010-07-26T22:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/chilean-peso-gains-as-u-s-home-sales-boost-stocks-copper-extends-gain.html

          
          
             Chile’s peso rose, extending the
biggest weekly gain in two months, as a bigger-than-estimated
increase in U.S. new home sales bolstered demand for riskier
assets.  
 The peso appreciated 0.2 percent to 519.10 per U.S. dollar
from 520.28 on July 23. It rallied 1.9 percent last week,
outperforming other Latin American currencies. Interest-rate
swap rates in Chilean pesos fell today, while inflation-linked
swap yields rose.  
 Sales of new homes in the U.S. rose more than forecast in
June, helping drive U.S. stocks higher. The Dow Jones Industrial
Average rose  1 percent , the euro gained 0.7 percent and the
price of copper, Chile’s biggest export, increased 1.7 percent
in London.  
 “New home sales pushed the Dow higher and if that
continues you’ll see an appreciation of the peso,” said  Cesar Perez , an economist at Celfin Capital SA in Santiago.  
 The peso may strengthen further after Standard & Poor’s
confirmed today that a planned sovereign global bond sale
denominated in the currency will be payable in dollars, said
 Jorge Selaive , chief economist at Banco de Credito e
Inversiones.  
 Chile’s government plans to sell $1.5 billion bonds in
dollars and pesos to help pay for rebuilding from a devastating
earthquake, which would require it to sell dollars and buy pesos
for spending.  
 Peso ‘Clarity’  
 “The clarity could contribute to the appreciation we
expect in the peso, and which we’ve already seen over the last
few weeks,” Selaive said by telephone from Santiago. “We
expect the currency to strengthen this year with rates starting
to rise and the economy recovering strongly.”  
 Chile’s central bank has lifted its benchmark interest rate
twice in the past two months by half a percentage point each
time as the economy grows at the fastest pace in five years.  
 Economic activity  may have grown at 5.1 percent in June,
according to research published today by Bice Inversiones in
Santiago. That would imply that Chile’s economy grew about 5.6
percent year-on-year in the second quarter, the fastest since
the first quarter of 2007.  
 The one-year nominal interest-rate swap rate declined for
the first time in two week, sliding four basis points to 3.5
percent. A similar contract denominated in unidades de fomento,
Chile’s inflation-linked currency unit, rose five basis points
to minus 0.7 percent.  
 Breakeven Inflation  
 That means the average pace of inflation priced into the
market over the next 12 months fell two basis points to 4.28
percent, according to Bloomberg calculations. Breakeven
inflation priced into the market may be declining ahead of an
auction of seven-, 10-, 20- and 30-year inflation-linked bonds
totaling $535 million programmed for July 28.  
 Traders “are looking ahead to the auction on Wednesday,
which will be an acid test to see how flexible yields are and
how solid priced-in inflation expectations are,” Selaive said.
Investors “are pretty keen on inflation-linked instruments.
This will be a test to see if inflation compensation
normalizes,” he said.  
 One-year breakeven inflation in the swaps market has
increased 59 basis points this month.  
 To contact the reporter responsible on this story:
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        