-- China First-Half Natural-Gas Demand Jumps 22% Amid Effort to Cut Emissions
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-26T04:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/china-first-half-natural-gas-demand-jumps-22-amid-effort-to-cut-emissions.html

          
          
             China, the world’s biggest energy
user, consumed 22 percent more natural gas in the first half
compared with a year earlier as the country boosted production
and use of the cleaner-burning fuel to cut emissions.  
 Demand rose after China Petrochemical Corp.’s first-half
gas output jumped more than 40 percent, China National Offshore
Oil Corp.’s climbed more than 30 percent and China National
Petroleum Corp. showed “stable growth,” the National
Development and Reform Commission said in a  statement  on its
website today. It didn’t specify how much gas China consumed.  
 China, the world’s biggest polluter, wants state-owned
energy companies to boost domestic gas production and import
more to help meet emissions goals. Gas imports, including 1.7
billion cubic meters piped from Central Asia and 4.08 million
metric tons of liquefied natural gas, rose 1.6 times in the
first six months compared with a year earlier, the top economic
planner said.  
 The country may still “face pressure” in various regions
during the peak winter demand season because of bottlenecks in
pipelines, insufficient stockpile capacity and the unwillingness
of gas-importing companies to bring in costlier supplies from
overseas, NDRC said.  
 Unconventional Gas  
 China, which wants to reduce reliance on coal and oil, is
also encouraging domestic extraction of unconventional gas to
meet its growing energy needs.  
 Production of unconventional gas, extracted from shale
rocks or coal seams, may exceed 11 billion cubic feet a day in
China by 2030, accounting for more than a quarter of total gas
supply,  Gavin Thompson , China gas study director for Wood
Mackenzie Consultants Ltd., said in an e-mailed note today.  
 China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. , China Petrochemical’s
Hong Kong-listed unit, discovered coal-seal gas in the northern
province of Shanxi, according to a  statement  posted on its
parent’s website. Output at the well at Xiangning county
exceeded 2,000 cubic meters a day and production is “growing
steadily,” it said.  
 Sinopec, as China Petroleum is known, has identified 18
blocks with potential coal-seam gas assets, the company said in
the statement.  
 -- Winnie Zhu  in Shanghai and  Chua Baizhen  in Beijing. Editors:
 Clyde Russell ,  Ryan Woo .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Winnie Zhu  in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        