-- China Banks Said to See Risks in 23% of $1.1 Trillion Infrastructure Loans
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-26T07:38:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/china-banks-said-to-see-risks-in-23-of-1-1-trillion-public-project-loans.html

          
          
             Chinese banks may struggle to recoup
about 23 percent of the 7.7 trillion yuan ($1.1 trillion)
they’ve lent to finance local government infrastructure projects,
according to a person with knowledge of data collected by the
nation’s regulator.  
 About half of all loans need to be serviced by secondary
sources including guarantors because the ventures can’t generate
sufficient revenue, the person said, declining to be identified
because the information is confidential. The China Banking
Regulatory Commission has told banks to write off non-performing
project loans by the end of this year, the person said.  
 The estimate implies $261 billion of debt may go sour,
almost five times the $53.5 billion the nation’s  five largest
banks  are raising to replenish capital. China’s banks advanced a
record $1.4 trillion of  credit  last year to support the economy,
raising concern that bad loans will surge and force the
government to add to the more than $650 billion spent to clean
up the banking industry since 1999.  
 “Unfortunately this smells just like déjà vu of China’s
last banking crisis a decade ago,” said  Shen Minggao , Hong
Kong-based head of China research at Citigroup Inc. “Non-
performing loans will increase as a result of last year’s
lending spree, which to a certain extent was a delayed form of
fiscal spending, and eventually the central government will step
in and share the costs.”  
 Highways, Airports  
 Decades of state-directed lending to unprofitable
government companies and projects saddled China’s banking system
with a non-performing loan ratio of more than 50 percent,
according to a 2002 estimate by Standard & Poor’s. Government
bailouts helped bring the industry’s  bad loan ratio  to a low of
1.3 percent by June 30.  
 Local governments set up the financing vehicles to fund
projects such as highways and airports due to limits on their
ability to directly borrow money. The central government this
year restricted borrowing on concern money isn’t being used for
viable projects.  
 The number of non-performing loans to such vehicles likely
won’t be “too high” at the end of this year as most such
credits, many issued last year, are long-term debts, said
Sanford C Bernstein & Co. analyst  Michael Werner . “We may not
see trouble with these loans begin to pop up until two or three
years down the road.”  
 27 Percent  
 Only 27 percent of the loans to the financing vehicles can
be repaid in full by cash generated by the projects they funded,
the person said. Central bank governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said in
March that the failure by such financing vehicles to repay debt
may lead to “fiscal risks” as local governments will become
liable.  
 “Some of the infrastructure projects may not be
commercially viable per se, but we should recognize that the
benefit they bring to the local economy will enable governments
to repay the debt,” said  Xing Ziqiang , a Beijing-based
economist at China International Capital Corp. “That will
reduce the likelihood of loans turning bad.”  
 An official at the banking regulator’s press office in
Beijing declined to immediately comment when contacted today.  
 China last month ordered local governments to ensure
repayment and to concentrate on completing projects already
under way. Financing units that fund only public projects and
rely on the fiscal income of local governments to repay debt
should stop spending, the State Council said June 13. Local
governments have also been barred from guaranteeing loans taken
by their financing vehicles.  
 Fitch Weighs In  
 To minimize losses, the  banking regulator  has ordered
lenders to create teams to discuss loan repayments with local
governments and protect the rights of creditors, the person said.  
 The government may have to handle the issue in a “careful
and gradual” manner as China’s economy slows, Citigroup’s Shen
said. Growth eased to 10.3 percent in the three months to June
from a year earlier, from a pace of 11.9 percent in the first
quarter.  
 “They have to walk a fine line between making sure that
these banks provision adequately and making sure these banks can
still generate capital to grow their capital adequacy ratio,”
Werner said.  
 China Citic Bank Corp.  would be the “most negatively
impacted” by provisions against such loans, Werner wrote in a
report today. China Merchants Bank Co. would be the least
affected, he wrote.  
 China Citic Bank  
 Citic Bank  dropped 1 percent to 5.88 yuan in Shanghai
trading as of 11:29 a.m. local time. China Merchants fell 1.2
percent, extending this year’s loss to 17.6 percent. The
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s biggest,
slid 1 percent.  
 The government has been grappling with how to rein in the
credit-fuelled stimulus before it leads to overheating,
according to a July 14 report by Fitch Ratings analyst  Charlene Chu . Lending hasn’t slowed as much as official data suggests
because Chinese banks are shifting loans off balance sheets by
repackaging them into investment products that are sold to
investors, the report showed.  
 “The growing popularity of this activity is increasingly
distorting credit growth figures at an institutional and system
level,” Chu wrote. “Consequently, Chinese banks’ loan loss
reserves and capital are more exposed to credit losses than
current data suggests.”  
 Chairman Liu said in April that inspectors would visit
banks in the third quarter to check on loan reports that had to
be submitted by the end of June. Those reports showed the banks
had 7.7 trillion yuan of outstanding loans to the local
financing vehicles at the end of last month, the person said.  
 -- Andreea Papuc . With assistance from  Laura Keeley  in New
York. Editors:  Malcolm Scott , Joost Akkermans  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Andreea Papuc at +852-2977-6641 or
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        