-- China Second-Half Power Demand Growth May Slow to 5% on Pollution Curbs
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-26T04:25:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/china-second-half-power-demand-growth-may-slow-to-5-on-pollution-curbs.html

          
          
             China’s electricity demand growth
may slow to about 5 percent in the second half from the first
amid curbs on energy-intensive and polluting industries, cutting
investment in power plants, the China Electricity Council said.  
 Electricity consumption may rise about 12 percent to 4.1
trillion kilowatt-hours this year, the council said in a
statement on its  website  today. Demand gained 22 percent in the
first six months on increased factory use.  
 Economic growth eased to 10.3 percent in the second quarter
and industrial production cooled more than forecast in June,
restraining energy demand growth. Chinese investment in power
stations and grids will reach about 660 billion yuan ($97
billion) this year, less than 2009, the council said, without
giving a comparative number.  
 Second-half power supply and demand will be balanced
generally with surplus in some regions and tightness in others,
depending on coal supply and weather conditions, the state-
backed council said. China uses coal as fuel in about 80 percent
of its power plants.  
 Power-station coal prices may stabilize at high levels in
the second half on constrained supply, the council said. The
government should improve the system linking coal and
electricity prices to help stem losses at power producers,
according to the council.  
 Stemming Losses  
 Coal prices may rise from current levels and thermal-power
plants will continue to face operational difficulties, it said.
Chinese coal prices at Qinhuangdao, the nation’s largest port
for the fuel, have gained 35 percent since last year’s low in
March. Use of thermal coal may exceed 1.7 billion metric tons
this year, according to the council.  
 The council said 43.4 percent of thermal-power producers
posted losses in the first five months, 3.5 percentage points
higher than a year earlier, citing data from the National Bureau
of Statistics.  
 China has frozen electricity prices to limit their impact
on inflation. The country has a system under which it raises
power tariffs when coal costs increase by more than 5 percent
within a six-month period.  
 -- Winnie Zhu . Editors:  Ryan Woo ,  John Viljoen .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        