-- China Finds 84 Kids With Lead Poisoning Due to Gold Extraction Operations
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-26T05:28:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/china-finds-84-kids-with-lead-poisoning-due-to-gold-extraction-operations.html

          
          
             Authorities in the southwestern
Chinese province of  Yunnan  have found 84 children in Heqing
county with excessive levels of lead in their blood caused by
illegal gold processing operations.  
 The children were diagnosed after the local environmental
protection department cracked down on operations that used
cyanide to extract gold from ore, the Heqing government said in
a  statement  on its website yesterday. Rising gold prices had
encouraged about 200 groups of villagers in the county to begin
processing ore in their homes, which can generate lead fumes
and poisonous solid waste, it said.  
 China, the world’s largest consumer of metals including
lead and copper, has struggled to control pollution from its
metallurgical operations. A leak at a plant in eastern China’s
Fujian province owned by  Zijin Mining Group Co. , China’s
largest gold producer, killed more than 1,500 metric tons of
fish in a local river this month.  
 More than 4,000 people in China were poisoned by lead in
2009, according to the Ministry of Environmental Protection.
Among the victims were more than 2,000 children, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported.  
 Tests last year in Henan, China’s largest lead-producing
province, diagnosed 1,008 children with excessive lead in their
blood, with  Henan Yuguang Gold and Lead Co. , China’s largest
lead maker, closing an outdated plant there in October.  
 Blood tests conducted last year in Kunming, capital of
Yunnan, found 200 children had excessive levels of lead.
Children with above-normal levels of lead in their blood were
also found in northwestern province of Shaanxi and the central
province of Hubei in 2009.  
 Metal poisonings led to 32 protests in China last year,
the environmental ministry said. The government closed 231
enterprises and suspended production at 641 metals plants in
2009, the ministry said.  
 For Related News and Information:
Stories on China’s nonferrous metals industry:
TNI CHINA NONFERR BN <GO>
China economic statistics: ECST CH <GO>
Most-read stories about China: MNI CHINA <GO>  
          
          


  


        