-- China Banks Said to See Risks in 23% of $1.1 Trillion Local Project Loans
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-26T00:52:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/china-banks-said-to-see-risks-in-23-of-1-1-trillion-infrastructure-loans.html

          
          
             Chinese banks may struggle to recoup
about 23 percent of the 7.7 trillion yuan ($1.1 trillion)
they’ve lent to finance local government infrastructure projects,
according to a person with knowledge of data collected by the
nation’s regulator.  
 About half of all loans need to be serviced by secondary
sources including guarantors because the ventures can’t generate
sufficient revenue, the person said, declining to be identified
because the information is confidential. The China Banking
Regulatory Commission has told banks to write off non-performing
project loans by the end of this year, the person said.  
 Commission Chairman  Liu Mingkang  said last week borrowing
by the so-called local government financing vehicles may
threaten the banking industry. The nation’s five-largest banks,
including  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , are raising as much
as $53.5 billion to replenish capital after the sector extended
a  record  $1.4 trillion in credit last year.  
 “Unfortunately this smells just like déjà vu of China’s
last banking crisis a decade ago,” said  Shen Minggao , Hong
Kong-based head of China research at Citigroup Inc. “Non-
performing loans will increase as a result of last year’s
lending spree, which to a certain extent was a delayed form of
fiscal spending, and eventually the central government will step
in and share the costs.”  
 Decades of state-directed lending to unprofitable
government companies and projects saddled China’s banking system
with a non-performing loan ratio of more than 50 percent,
according to a 2002 estimate by Standard & Poor’s. The
government has spent more than $650 billion to clean up the
banking industry since 1999, reducing its  bad loan ratio  to a
low of 1.3 percent by June 30.  
 Highways, Airports  
 Local governments set up the financing vehicles to fund
projects such as highways and airports due to limits on their
ability to directly borrow money. The central government this
year restricted borrowing on concern money isn’t being used for
viable projects.  
 “The issue is symptomatic of the way the stimulus package
was rolled out in 2008,” said  Nicholas Consonery , Asia
specialist at the Eurasia Group. “It is difficult for local
governments to finance these projects. It is written under the
Chinese constitution that local governments cannot offer their
own debt.”  
 Only 27 percent of the loans to the financing vehicles can
be repaid in full by cash generated by the projects they funded,
the person said.  
 Central bank governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said in March that the
failure by such financing vehicles to repay debt may lead to
“fiscal risks” as local governments will become liable.  
 Guarantees Banned  
 “Some of the infrastructure projects may not be
commercially viable per se, but we should recognize that the
benefit they bring to the local economy will enable governments
to repay the debt,” said  Xing Ziqiang , a Beijing-based
economist at China International Capital Corp. “That will
reduce the likelihood of loans turning bad.”  
 Calls to the banking regulator’s press office in Beijing
after business hours weren’t answered.  
 China last month ordered local governments to ensure
repayment and to concentrate on completing projects already
under way. Financing units that fund only public projects and
rely on the fiscal income of local governments to repay debt
should stop spending, the State Council said June 13. Local
governments have also been barred from guaranteeing loans taken
by their financing vehicles.  
 To minimize losses, the  banking regulator  has ordered
lenders to create teams to discuss loan repayments with local
governments and protect the rights of creditors, the person said.  
 Fitch Weighs In  
 The government may have to handle the issue in a “careful
and gradual” manner as China’s economy slows, Citigroup’s Shen
said. Growth eased to 10.3 percent in the three months to June
from a year earlier, from a pace of 11.9 percent in the first
quarter.  
 The government has been grappling with how to rein in the
credit-fuelled stimulus before it leads to overheating,
according to a July 14 report by Fitch Ratings analyst  Charlene Chu . Lending hasn’t slowed as much as official data suggests
because Chinese banks are shifting loans off balance sheets by
repackaging them into investment products that are sold to
investors, the report showed.  
 “The growing popularity of this activity is increasingly
distorting credit growth figures at an institutional and system
level,” Chu wrote. “Consequently, Chinese banks’ loan loss
reserves and capital are more exposed to credit losses than
current data suggests.”  
 Chairman Liu said in April that inspectors would visit
banks in the third quarter to check on loan reports that had to
be submitted by the end of June. Those reports showed the banks
had 7.7 trillion yuan of outstanding loans to the local
financing vehicles at the end of last month, the person said.  
 -- Andreea Papuc . With assistance from  Laura Keeley  in New
York. Editors:  Malcolm Scott , Joost Akkermans  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Andreea Papuc at +852-2977-6641 or
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Liao Qiang, a Beijing-based analyst at Standard & Poor’s, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the health of the Chinese banking industry.
     Chinese banks face rising credit risks and their non-performing loan ratios are likely to climb as the nation’s economy slows and lending for government projects comes due for repayment, according to S&P. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Steve Bernstein, chief executive officer of Oppenheimer Investments Asia Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about his investment strategy for Asian stocks. 
     Bernstein, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for Chinese banks and initial public offerings. (Excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
