-- Citigroup Says 24 Banks Would Fail Test if Bonds Held on Books Included
-- Jann Bettinga
-- 2010-07-26T14:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/citigroup-says-24-banks-would-fail-test-if-bonds-held-on-books-included.html

          
          
             Twenty-four of Europe’s biggest
banks would fail the region’s stress tests and show a combined
capital shortfall of 15 billion euros ($19.4 billion) if the
exams included losses on sovereign bonds held on lenders’
banking books, according to Citigroup Inc.  
 The banks’ Tier 1 capital ratios would fall below 6
percent, which was the threshold set by European regulators for
passing,  Ronit Ghose  and other Citigroup analysts said in a  note 
to clients today. The banks that failed the Citigroup assessment
include 12 Spanish banks, seven from Greece and Cyprus, three
German lenders and one bank each from Italy and Ireland.  
 Regulators carried out stress tests of the European Union’s
91 largest banks to examine if the region’s financial firms
could withstand an economic slump and a sovereign-debt crisis.
The test showed seven lenders failed and exposed a combined
capital shortfall of 3.5 billion euros. The evaluations took
into account potential losses only on government bonds the banks
trade, rather than those they are holding until maturity. That
ignored the majority of banks’ holdings of sovereign debt,
analysts have said.  
 Citigroup said it used the stress-test data and applied an
additional discount on banks’ sovereign-debt holdings in the
banking books. Eighty-five banks provided breakdowns of their
government-debt holdings when they published the test results,
Citigroup said. The six that didn’t are all German banks and
include Deutsche Bank AG, the country’s biggest bank, according
to the analysts.  
 Banking Book  
 The tests, organized by the London-based  Committee of
European Banking Supervisors , didn’t factor in losses on
sovereign bonds in the banking book as regulators didn’t assume
a European nation would default on its debt -- a prerequisite
for impairments on banking books, according to analysts.  
 Lenders hold about 90 percent of their Greek government
bonds in their banking book and 10 percent in their trading
book, according to a survey by Morgan Stanley.  
 The EU stress tests assumed a loss of 23.1 percent on Greek
debt, 14 percent on Portuguese bonds, 12.3 percent on Spanish
debt and 4.7 percent on German state debt, according to CEBS.
U.K. government bonds were subject to a 10 percent discount and
France 5.9 percent, CEBS said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jann Bettinga  in Frankfurt at 
 jbettinga@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        