-- Corn, Soybeans, Wheat Prices Slump as Rain Revives Crop Prospects in U.S.
-- Jeff Wilson
-- 2010-07-26T19:36:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/corn-soybeans-wheat-prices-slump-as-rain-revives-crop-prospects-in-u-s-.html

          
          
             Corn fell to the lowest price in
three weeks, soybeans dropped the most since June and wheat
declined for a second session on signs that rain is reviving
U.S. crops threatened by dry weather earlier this month.  
 Weekend rain significantly boosted soil moisture in dry
areas of the Midwest and South, said  Drew Lerner , the president
of World Weather Inc. in Overland Park, Kansas. Forecasts call
for showers and no sustained heat over the next two weeks, which
will be good for crops, Lerner said in a report.  
 “Weather conditions are improving,” said  Greg Grow , the
director of agribusiness for Archer Financial Services Inc. in
Chicago. “Farmers are going to be active sellers because they
are more confident in raising a big crop.”  
 Corn futures for December delivery fell 6.5 cents, or 1.7
percent, to $3.78 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, after
touching $3.7575, the lowest level for a most-active contract
since July 1. Before today, the commodity gained 12 percent
since June 29, the day before the government said U.S. farmers
planted less this year than they had planned.  
 Soybean futures for November delivery slipped 15.5 cents,
or 1.6 percent, to $9.66 a bushel, the biggest drop for a most-
active contract since June 4. The price fell 0.4 percent last
week on speculation that rain would revive crops.  
 Wheat futures for September delivery fell 6.75 cents, or
1.1 percent, to $5.895 a bushel, the largest decline since July
16. Before today, the grain rose 39 percent since June 9 as
drought damaged crops in parts of Europe and Russia and too much
rain in Canada reduced the area planted this year.  
 Crop Conditions  
 About 72 percent of the U.S.  corn crop  was in good or
excellent condition as of July 18, compared with 71 percent a
year earlier, the government last week. An estimated 67 percent
of  soybeans  were good or excellent last week, unchanged from a
year earlier. U.S. farmers harvested record yields last year.  
 Spring wheat was rated 82 percent in the top two categories
in the week ended July 18, up from 73 percent a year earlier.  
 The U.S. Department of Agriculture will update its weekly
assessment of the crops at 4 p.m. today in Washington, reporting
conditions as of yesterday.  
 The weather probably will be warmer than usual into
September, and the first frosts in the upper Midwest may arrive
two weeks later than usual, according to a report today from
 Commodity Weather Group LLC  in Bethesda, Maryland. Most of the
crops should reach maturity without serious stress, the
forecaster said.  
 “Some people are calling for small improvements in the
weekly crop conditions,” Grow said. “Rising crop conditions
are unusual at this time of the growing season,” which means an
increase in yield potential, Grow said.  
 Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $48.6 billion in
2009, followed by soybeans, hay and wheat, government figures
show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        