-- Corn and Soybeans Drop as Favorable Weather Outlook To Boost U.S. Yields
-- Luzi Ann Javier
-- 2010-07-26T03:41:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/corn-and-soybeans-drop-as-favorable-weather-outlook-to-boost-u-s-yields.html

          
          
             Corn and soybeans fell on
speculation that favorable weather conditions in the Midwest
will help boost yields in the U.S., the world’s largest grower
and exporter of both crops.  
 Corn for December-delivery fell 0.2 percent to $3.8375 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 10:41 a.m. Singapore
time, after declining as much as 1 percent earlier. Soybeans
fell for the first time in five sessions.  
 Much of the Great Lakes region through the northern Plains
and the Rockies had “noticeably cooler and less humid
conditions ushering into the Midwest,” Accuweather.com said in
a report posted today.  
 “The corn market in particular, is feeling the weight of
favorable weather conditions in the U.S., which is the main
influence in the market this early morning,”  Luke Mathews , a
commodity strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia said by
phone from Sydney today. Still, prices may rise on expanding
imports by China, the world’s second-largest consumer of the
grain, Mathews said.  
 China’s corn imports may more than double to 5.8 million
metric tons next year from a year ago, and may expand further to
15 million tons in the 2014-2015 season, as the Asian nation
enters a “new era” of buying from overseas, the U.S. Grains
Council said, citing Shanghai JC Intelligence Co.  
 Imports Climb  
 Imports were forecast to rise from 1.7 million tons this
year, because even with normal weather, China won’t be able to
produce enough grain to meet demand as incomes rise, the council
said on its website, citing Shanghai JC Chairman Hanver Li.  
 The Asian nation had been a net exporter of the grain until
last year, when it  sold  172,000 tons, compared with  purchases  of
47,000 tons in 2009, according to USDA data.  
 “China buying is certainly something that’s going to be
supportive for global grain prices particularly in the corn
space,” Mathews said. “The natural market to supply China in
the corn space is certainly the U.S. That’s something that’s
supportive of U.S. corn prices.”  
 The U.S. was forecast to account for 55 percent of global
corn trade, and 40 percent of the world’s  total output  of the
grain next year, according to USDA’s July 9 forecast.  
 November-delivery soybeans declined 0.2 percent to $9.795 a
bushel, after declining as much as 0.7 percent earlier.  
 Twenty-two of 31 traders and analysts surveyed from Chicago
to Tokyo on July 23 said corn will fall for the second-straight
week, and 18 predicted soybeans will decline this week, on
speculation that rain and mild temperatures the next two weeks
will increase the yield potential for crops in the U.S.  
 September-delivery wheat slipped 0.5 percent to $5.9325 a
bushel, after declining as much as 0.8 percent earlier.  
 The decline in wheat prices “could be simply a correction
from the strong prices that we’ve had the past couple of
weeks,” Mathews said. “The market is likely to trade in
limbo,” until the USDA releases its next update on global
agricultural supply and demand estimates next month, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        