-- Delta Woos N.Y. Fliers as Chicago Shuttle Targets UAL, AMR
-- Mary Schlangenstein
-- 2010-07-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/delta-courts-new-york-business-fliers-as-chicago-shuttle-targets-amr-ual.html

          
          
             For New York business travelers
bound for Chicago, there’s a new shuttle in town.  
 Opening another front in the competition for high-fare
corporate passengers,  Delta Air Lines Inc.  is operating hourly
flights between New York and Chicago, courting consumers by
offering three times the usual number of frequent-flier miles.  
 The jockeying adds a Midwest leg to the East Coast shuttle
flights from New York to Boston and Washington. Delta began its
service in June after shifting operations to O’Hare airport from
Chicago’s Midway, putting the world’s largest carrier in a head-
to-head matchup with  American Airlines  and  United Airlines .  
 “Chicago is one of the most important routes from New
York, and Delta’s primary target is to steal people from
American,” said  Brett Snyder , a former United and  America West
Airlines  manager who runs the  CrankyFlier  blog and works as a
consultant. “American responded with the triple points because
they don’t want even one single flier to switch to Delta.”  
 Airlines prize business travelers because last-minute
fliers pay the highest fares. On  AMR Corp. ’s American, a walk-up
round-trip ticket from its O’Hare hub to New York’s LaGuardia
airport tomorrow may run $449, according to the carrier’s
website. That ticket bought a month in advance is $178.  
 More Choices  
 Hourly frequencies mean more choices for passengers flying
between O’Hare, the second-busiest U.S. airport, and LaGuardia,
New York’s largest airport for domestic travel. Delta has 11
daily flights, compared with 17 for American and 18 for  UAL
Corp. ’s United, which is based in Chicago.  
 “I can literally show up a half-hour before and get on
that plane,” said  Jack Ablin , chief investment officer at
Chicago’s Harris Private Bank, which oversees $55 billion. “I
like the convenience of being able to change my schedule with
impunity.”  
 New York is the nation’s busiest aviation market, and
O’Hare and LaGuardia are each other’s top destination by
domestic passengers, according to the  Bureau of Transportation
Statistics . Customers spurred Delta’s shift to the larger
Chicago airport from Midway, said  Kent Landers , a spokesman for
the Atlanta-based airline.  
 “They preferred O’Hare,” Landers said. “It’s about
delivering the top business markets for New York, and Chicago is
one of them.”  
 Triple Points  
 Delta offered the triple-points promotion to “increase
awareness” of the new Chicago service, Landers said. Fliers can
earn 4,400 miles for a New York-Chicago round trip through
August. The usual total is about 1,470.  
 United matched the offer, and Fort Worth, Texas-based
American began a similar promotion 16 days later.  
 “It’s mission critical that you’re competitive on all
fronts -- price, mileage programs, services, frequencies,”  Jim Carter , vice president of American’s Eastern sales division,
said in an interview. “We obviously feel very strongly about
our investment in this market between New York and Chicago.
Chicago has always been a very critical market for us.”  
 American and United spotlight their more-frequent flights
and their use of Boeing Co.  MD-80  and  Airbus SAS A319  jets,
respectively, which have 120 or more seats. Delta’s Embraer  ERJ-
175 regional jets  carry 76 passengers and have less bin space.  
 “We compete vigorously in the Chicago-to-New York
market,” said  Michael Trevino , a spokesman for United, which is
merging with  Continental Airlines Inc. , the operator of a hub at
New Jersey’s Newark Liberty airport.  
 East Coast Shuttle  
 Shuttle flights on the Washington-New York-Boston axis date
to the 1960s, when Pan American World Airways and Eastern
Airlines began hourly service. Delta bought the Pan Am routes
about 20 years ago, and  US Airways Group Inc.  acquired Eastern’s
shuttle around the same time.  
 Delta uses its Delta Shuttle unit for the Chicago service,
offering perks found on East Coast trips such as free morning
coffee, bagels and newspapers, and wine, beer and snacks in the
evening. American and United both have hourly service between
Chicago and New York without differentiating the flights by
serving free food and alcohol in coach as Delta does.  
 Adding O’Hare to Delta’s shuttle operation is a “smart
move” because travel demand is reviving, said CrankyFlier’s
Snyder, who is based in Long Beach, California.  
 Airlines are regaining the pricing power they lost during
the recession.  Domestic yields , or average fare per mile, rose
each month this year through June after falling every month in
2009, according to the  Air Transport Association  trade group.  
 “The shuttle service is at the whims of the economy and
business travelers,” Snyder said. “It can be a real moneymaker
when things are looking up.”  
 Ablin, 55, the Chicago banker, flies to New York every six
weeks on American using an  American AAirpass card , which works
like a debit account and deducts the fare for each flight.
Buying last-minute tickets lets him avoid fees to change
flights, and he has elite frequent-flier status that often earns
him first-class upgrades.  
 He said he would consider using Delta or United if
American’s New York-Chicago flights were full or if the others
would honor the airline’s AAdvantage  loyalty program .  
 “I don’t want to end up in the middle seat all the way in
back of the plane, paying for trail mix,” Ablin said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Delta Airlines Inc chief executive officer Richard Anderson. Photographer: Victor Sokolowicz/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A Delta Boeing 757 jet sits at a gate . Photographer: George Frey/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
