-- Deripaska, Potanin Hurt Norilsk Value in Battle for $14 Billion
-- Yuriy Humber
-- 2010-07-26T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/deripaska-potanin-destroy-norilsk-nickel-value-in-battle-for-14-billion.html

          
          
             OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel ’s billionaire
owners, split over use of a $14.3 billion cash pile, are
damaging the value of Russia’s biggest mining company as their
quarrel distracts from growth.  
 The feud between  Oleg Deripaska ’s  United Co. Rusal  and
 Vladimir Potanin ’s Interros Holding Co., each owning 25 percent
of Norilsk, started in 2008. It reignited last month over a
disputed board election, dragging the shares down  11 percent  in
the subsequent three days. The billionaires disagree on how to
spend the  cash  Norilsk is likely to generate by 2012, with
Deripaska wanting dividends and Potanin preferring buybacks,
Russia’s Alfa Bank said in a July 14 report.  
 “Management focus is being distracted by ‘sideline’
issues,” said  Charl Malan , a portfolio manager at New York-
based Van Eck Global Hard Assets Fund who  holds Norilsk  shares.
“What the outcome of the spat is I am not sure. Importantly, it
needs to be resolved as it is hurting minority shareholders.”  
 Norilsk, the world’s biggest nickel producer, is 307th out
of 352 traded mining and metals companies tracked by Bloomberg
in terms of price-to-forecast-earnings for this year. Its
enterprise value to trailing 12-month earnings before interest
tax, depreciation and amortization is 6.37.  Vale SA , the second-
largest nickel company, has a price to trailing Ebitda ratio of
11.48.  Anglo American Plc  has 8.71 times and  Rio Tinto Plc  has
8.07 times.  
 Seeking Truce  
 Rusal is asking investor support for a rerun of the June 28
board election, where it won fewer seats than Interros in a vote
that Rusal said was manipulated.  
 The two need a truce, said  Ryan Dodd , a fund manager with
Specialised Research & Investment Group in Moscow.  
 “Only through a resolution of the ownership conflict does
Norilsk close a  valuation  gap with its global peers,” said
Dodd, who invests in global mining stocks.  
 Without the conflict, Norilsk’s value would be as much as
30 percent higher, or $9 billion more, should metal prices hold,
Dodd said. The fund manager, who prices Norilsk on an enterprise
value to net asset value basis, said the dispute means he won’t
buy the company’s shares.  
 As stockholders appeal for stability, the factions agree
only that their positions are far apart.  
 “There are several layers of the problems,” said  Andrei Bougrov , managing director at Interros and a Norilsk board
member. The results of the board vote are “just what came to
the surface,” he said.  
 Sacrifice Development  
 Interros and Rusal accuse each other of using Norilsk for
their own ends. Rusal, with  $12 billion of debt , will sacrifice
long-term development for quick cash in the form of dividends,
according to Bougrov.  
 Rusal said Interros used Norilsk in 2008 to buy energy
assets it didn’t want and that later filed for bankruptcy, and
is concerned similar actions may recur.  
 Interros “has been using the company as a cash machine,”
Rusal Head of Strategy  Maxim Sokov  said by telephone July 21.  
 In 2008, Deripaska and Potanin clashed over Norilsk. Rusal
sought more board seats and a merger with Norilsk, which Potanin
opposed, instigating a share buyback in which Deripaska’s
company couldn’t take part because its stake was held as
collateral. As part of a truce, Potanin agreed to cut his
Norilsk stake to 25 percent from almost 30 percent.  
 Stock Slump  
 Rusal purchased its Norilsk shares shortly before commodity
markets tumbled amid the global recession. Within six months of
the announcement of the acquisition on April 24, 2008, Norilsk’s
stock fell 75 percent, compared with a 38 percent drop in the
 Bloomberg Europe 500 Metals & Mining Index . By the end of 2008,
after the feud was settled at the close of November, Norilsk was
down 70 percent.  
 The sparring this time may be milder than in 2008,
according to  Alexandre Starinsky , who helps manage $200 million
with Kaltchuga Fund in Moscow, and  Oleg Galkin , chief investment
officer at UralSib Asset Management, who’s maintaining his stake
as the dispute plays out.  
 “As a minority shareholder, we’re not anxious as yet,”
Galkin said. “If things get worse, that’s another question.”  
 Erzhena Mintasova, a spokeswoman for Norilsk, said the
company doesn’t comment on the actions of shareholders and that
its operations are “almost unaffected” by the dispute.  
 The government, which owns no Norilsk stock, may prefer
that the company spend its cash on mergers and acquisitions,
Alfa Bank said. The government is an indirect stakeholder
because Rusal’s shares are pledged as collateral for a $4.5
billion loan from  state bank VEB .  
 Government View  
 Rusal requested $3 billion in dividend payments for 2009,
when Norilsk’s profit was  $2.6 billion . Rusal wants bigger
dividends because management can’t be trusted to use the cash
“properly,” Rusal’s Sokov said.  
 It was Rusal’s “opportunistic” attitude to getting hold
of Norilsk’s cash that caused minority investors to side with
management at the annual meeting, Interros’s Bougrov said.  
 Deripaska’s campaign for higher payouts and changes to the
board didn’t convince all shareholders. For funds such as
UralSib, dividends aren’t as important as share-price growth,
Galkin said. JPMorgan Asset Management’s  Ian Henderson  said he
feels the board has so far defended his interests.  
 “The major shareholders are dancing around each other,”
said  Chris Weafer , chief strategist with brokerage UralSib
Capital. “The very top level of government is where the
decision on the company will be made. Minority investors just
hope they find themselves on the right side.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yuriy Humber  in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Oleg Deripaska, chief executive officer of United Co. Rusal. Photographer: Timothy O'Rourke/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
