-- Deutsche Bank's Jain Names Corporate, Investment Banking Team, Memo Shows
-- Aaron Kirchfeld
-- 2010-07-26T14:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/deutsche-bank-s-jain-names-corporate-investment-banking-team-memo-shows.html

          
          
             Deutsche Bank AG ’s  Anshu Jain 
created a 15-member executive committee and named regional
leaders in his first move as sole head of the corporate and
investment bank.  
 Boon-Chye Loh , 46, will lead the Asia-Pacific region at the
division,  Jeff Mayer , 51, will head North America and  Brett Olsher , 50, will run emerging markets, according to an internal
memo obtained by Bloomberg News. The contents were confirmed by
spokesman  Michael Golden  today.  
 Jain, 47, became sole head of the corporate and investment
bank on July 1 after taking over corporate finance and
transaction banking from  Michael Cohrs , 53, who plans to retire.
Jain now oversees a unit that accounted for more than 80 percent
of the group’s pretax profit in 2009.  
 While each member of the executive committee “will be
empowered to manage and grow a distinct business for which they
will have individual responsibility, they will also be
accountable collectively for CIB’s performance as a unified
business,” Jain said in the memo.  
 Deutsche Bank, based in Frankfurt, aims to double pretax
profit at its operating businesses by 2011 to 10 billion euros
($12.9 billion) from 2009, helped by gains in investment banking
and Asia. The  investment bank , known as corporate banking and
securities, is forecast to earn 6.3 billion euros in profit next
year and transaction banking 1.3 billion euros.  
 Lower Profit  
 Jain plans to spend about 1.6 billion euros on hiring and
technology for the global markets unit in the next two years to
break into the top five in commodities and U.S. cash equities,
the bank has said.  
 Deutsche Bank, Germany’s largest bank, may report lower
second-quarter profit tomorrow after Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis led to a drop in trading revenue. Net income probably
slipped to 1.05 billion euros from 1.09 billion euros a year
earlier and 1.76 billion euros in the previous quarter,
according to the average estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  
 The 15 members of the executive committee, and their
responsibilities, are: Boon-Chye Loh, Asia-Pacific region head
and head of markets for Asia-Pacific; Jeff Mayer, North America
region head and head of markets for North America; Brett Olsher,
emerging markets coverage;  Jacques Brand , investment banking
coverage and advisory;  Alan Cloete , global finance and foreign
exchange;  Ivor Dunbar , capital markets;  Michele Faissola , rates
and commodities;  Colin Fan , credit and emerging markets;  David Folkerts-Landau , research;  Rich Herman , institutional client
group;  Stephan Leithner , investment banking coverage and
advisory;  Ram Nayak , structuring;  Garth Ritchie , equities;  Henry Ritchotte , chief operating officer; and  Werner Steinmueller ,
transaction banking.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Jain created three new positions for heads of CIB regions  
                       
                         
                           Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Anshu Jain, a member of Deutsche Bank's group executive committee. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Anshu Jain, a member of Deutsche Bank's group executive committee. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
