-- Drilling Moratorium Foes Fight Bid to Restore Ban on Deep Water Operations
-- Laurel Brubaker Calkins
-- 2010-07-26T21:24:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/drilling-moratorium-foes-fight-bid-to-restore-ban-on-deep-water-operations.html

          
          
             Opponents of a U.S. ban on deepwater
drilling asked a federal appeals court to block a bid by
regulators to throw out a judge’s ruling that scrapped the
moratorium.  
 Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar  previously asked the
U.S. appellate court and a lower-court judge, both located in
New Orleans, to dismiss the lawsuit by  Hornbeck Offshore
Services Inc.  and other oil-service companies. The U.S. claims
the lawsuit was rendered irrelevant by newer drilling suspension
rules announced July 12.  
 The industry suit remains necessary because drilling hasn’t
resumed in the Gulf of Mexico in the wake of the second
moratorium, lawyers for Hornbeck said today. Drill ban opponents
including Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal  claim the moratorium
is turning an environmental disaster into an economic
catastrophe.  
 “The July 12 order reimposes the same basic blanket, one-
size-fits-all prohibition as the original moratorium,”  Carl Rosenblum , Hornbeck’s attorney, said in a filing today. “It
prevents all deep-water drilling, treating the industry leader
and the industry laggard exactly the same.”  
 U.S. District Judge  Martin Feldman  in New Orleans on June
22 threw out the six-month ban imposed by federal regulators on
oil and gas drilling in waters deeper than 500 feet, finding it
was too broad. A three-judge panel of the 5th U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals in New Orleans on July 8 refused regulators’ request
to put Feldman’s order on hold while the government appeals.  
 Safety Demands  
 Salazar issued a revised ban on July 12 that may allow new
wells if the industry shows it has strengthened safety
standards. Under the new moratorium, individual rigs can go back
to work after satisfying new unspecified safety and
environmental requirements, the government said.  
 The new moratorium will last until Nov. 30, or until
Salazar finds that “drilling operations can proceed safely,”
the government said in a July 12 statement. The government asked
both courts to dismiss the Hornbeck lawsuit and asked the
appeals court to vacate, or erase, Feldman’s decision.  
 ‘Not Moot’  
 Hornbeck and the other companies asked Feldman last week to
reject the U.S. request to dismiss their lawsuit. They argued
again today that the original suit and Feldman’s preliminary
injunction stopping the ban are still necessary.  
 “This case is not moot, and the preliminary injunction
should not be vacated due to the voluntary action of the losing
party while the case is on appeal,” Rosenblum said in today’s
filings. The new ban “ does not create a new regulatory regime,
and will have the same industry-wide adverse effects,” he said.  
 “If this lawsuit were dismissed as moot, nothing would
prevent the secretary from further manipulating the legal system
by issuing other, successive orders to moot out any future
judicial challenges to the moratorium.”  
 The case is Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar,
2:10-cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans). The appeal case is 10-30585, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Dougie Youngson, an analyst at Arbuthnot Securities Ltd., talks about the possibility that Tony Hayward will be replaced by Robert Dudley as chief executive at BP Plc. 
     Youngson, speaking with Jon Erlichman on Bloomberg Television's 
"InsideTrack," also discusses BP's operations in Libya and asset sales. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Nick McGregor, an investment manager at Redmayne Bentley Stockbrokers, talks about the outlook for BP Plc's second-quarter results and the prospect of Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward being replaced.
     He speaks with Ryan Chilcote on Bloomberg Television's "Start Up."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
