-- BP Asset Sales Win 58% Premium, Show Potential for More Deals
-- Brian Swint
-- 2010-07-27T08:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/dudley-set-to-speed-assets-sales-after-bp-wins-58-premium-in-apache-deal.html

          
          
             Robert Dudley , appointed as BP Plc
chief executive officer today, will sell as much as $30 billion
of assets over the next 18 months after the company got a 58
percent premium for fields bought by Apache Corp.  
 BP plans to dispose of between $25 billion and $30 billion, 
mainly in oil and gas production, “worth more to other companies 
than to BP,” the company said in a statement today after it 
reported a record $17.2 billion second-quarter loss because of 
the costs of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  
 The $7 billion sale of fields in Canada, Texas and Egypt to
Apache last week raised about $19 a barrel of proven reserves,
compared with average valuations of $11 to $12 a barrel,
according to  Lucy Haskins , an analyst at Barclays Capital in
London. BP has assets in Pakistan, Vietnam and Colombia for sale
and may revive the offer of a stake in Alaska’s Prudhoe Bay
field after it fell out of the Apache deal, a person with
knowledge of the matter said last week.  
 BP “will increase their disposals,” Haskins said in a
telephone interview before today’s announcement. “It looks like
a good price for the profitability of those assets.”  
 Standard Chartered Plc advised BP on the Apache sale.  
 “We’ve just sold some assets and achieved a good price,
where buyers were able to value it higher than we probably saw
the value beforehand,” Dudley said on a conference call in
London today. “We’ll be reviewing our portfolio for other
options such as that.”  
 Oil and gas is the second-most active sector for mergers
and acquisitions activity this year behind telecoms, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. A total of 479 deals have been
announced with s total value of $93.5 billion.  
 ‘Good Market’  
 “One thing that’s helping them at this stage is that there
is a good market for assets,” said  Peter Hitchens , an analyst
at Panmure Gordon & Co. in London. “But first it’s down to the
new chief getting his feet under the table and getting the Gulf
issue cleared up.”  
 The slimmed down company will have to review  production 
targets. Hayward had aimed to expand output by between 1 percent
and 2 percent every year. Delays developing fields in the Gulf
of Mexico, home to about 25 of 40 projects planned before 2015,
will further hamper growth.  
 “The question is, will they be in decline for a couple of
years, given they just sold off 2 percent of production?”
Haskins said. “Maybe they will have an annus horribilis in
2010, but after that it could be easier to grow.”  
 Spill Fund  
 To raise funds for President  Barack Obama ’s $20 billion
spill fund and shore up investor confidence, the company last
month cancelled the $10 billion dividend for three quarters and
said it would reduce investment to raise funds. BP has spent $4
billion on the spill response so far, and analysts say the total
bill is likely to be about $33 billion, according to the median
of 11 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  
 “BP will have to adjust their overall objective based on
what’s happened,”  Jason Gammel , a New York-based analyst at
Macquarie Securities, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television. “Dealing with this spill is going to be a big part
of what has to happen strategically over the next year or two.”  
 The company will reduce its net debt level down to a range
of $10-$15 billion within the next 18 months, it said today in
the statement.  
 “Asset sales of $30 billion won’t fundamentally change the
company,” said BP Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg . BP estimates
the value of all its assets at about $250 billion, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Robert Dudley, attends the Boao Forum for Asia. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Colin McLean, managing director at SVM Asset Management Ltd., talks about BP Plc's appointment of Robert Dudley to replace Tony Hayward as chief executive officer and the expansion of the oil company's program of asset sales.
     He speaks from Edinburgh with Bloomberg's Maryam Nemaze on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Philip Weiss, an analyst at Argus Research in New York, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for BP Plc.
     BP’s board approved a plan to name Robert Dudley as chief executive officer, replacing Tony Hayward as the company looks to rebuild after battling the biggest oil spill in U.S. history, two people familiar with the situation said. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Neal Dingmann, senior vice president at Wunderlich Securities, talks about BP Plc's plan to name Robert Dudley as the company's chief executive officer, replacing Tony Hayward.
     Dudley, 54, was born in New York and grew up in Mississippi, part of the Gulf Coast region suffering environmental and economic damage from the spill. BP on June 23 appointed him to manage its response to the leak. Dingmann speaks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Jonathan Barratt, managing director at Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney, talks with Bloomberg's Mark Barton about BP Plc's decision to replace Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward with Robert Dudley, the director of the company's oil spill response unit.
     BP reported a record loss after taking a charge for the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, the worst in U.S. history. Dudley’s challenge will be to overcome cleanup costs and liabilities from the environmental disaster, which analysts expect will exceed $30 billion. (Barratt spoke before BP released a statement saying Dudley would take over from Hayward on Oct. 1. Interview excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Jason Gammel, an analyst at Macquarie Securities USA Inc., discusses the possibility BP Plc will name Robert Dudley to replace Tony Hayward as chief executive officer and the outlook for additional asset sales by the company.
     Dudley, the director of BP’s oil spill response unit, will soon be announced as the company’s first American chief and take the helm Oct. 1, a person with knowledge of the matter said. Gammel speaks with Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.” (Source: Bloomberg) 
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
