-- Dudley Faces Challenge to Ensure U.S. Future for BP
-- Brian Swint
-- 2010-07-26T14:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/dudley-would-work-for-bp-survival-in-u-s-after-leak-destroyed-reputation.html

          
          
             Robert Dudley’s  biggest challenge at
BP Plc will be to ensure the London-based company’s survival in
the U.S., where it’s the largest oil and gas producer.  
 Dudley, poised to become the first American head of the
former U.K. state oil company, will need to convince politicians
BP should be allowed to keep drilling in the U.S. after a
runaway well in the Gulf of Mexico caused the country’s worst
oil spill. The Gulf is home to about 25 of the 40 production
projects BP plans by 2015.  
 “It’s a wise choice to pick an American,” said  Gudmund Halle Isfeldt , an analyst at DnB NOR ASA in Oslo. “This will
take off some of the pressure, but not all of it. For the first
time, they can start looking ahead to the future of BP.”  
 BP’s reputation in the U.S., home to about 40 percent of
its  shareholders , has been battered by the Gulf disaster. The
oil company faces a likely bill of more than $30 billion to pay
the cost of cleaning up the spill and compensating its victims.
Criminal charges against BP are almost inevitable, according to
legal analysts.  
 The board will meet today to decide on Dudley as  Tony Hayward’s  successor, according to two people with knowledge of
the matter. BP said in a statement today that no final decision
has been made on management changes.  
 For BP to “remain a strong and viable in the U.S., it has
a great deal of work to do,” Dudley said in an interview last
month.  
 Gulf Roots  
 Dudley’s Gulf coast roots and 30 years of industry
experience may ready him to lead the biggest oil producer in the
U.S. In a battle for control of  BP’s Russian joint venture  with
a group of billionaires two years ago, Dudley, 54, survived
raids by  Vladimir Putin’s  secret service before being forced to
leave the country. As head of drilling in Africa, he oversaw
Angola, where BP now pumps from 11 deepwater fields.  
 Dudley’s nomination “would be positive, and most certainly
it would be a strong political move, because he is now in charge
of Gulf of Mexico clean-up operations,” said  Dirk Hoozemans ,
who helps manage the equivalent of $19.4 billion at Rotterdam-
based Robeco Group and doesn’t own BP. “He also has the
political negotiation skills since he did a good job heading up
TNK-BP” in Russia.  
 ‘Remain Strong’  
 One of his tasks may be to overcome measures being
considered by U.S.’s Congress to bar BP from new offshore leases
to drill for hydrocarbons.  
 Dudley, who was born in New York and grew up in
Mississippi, holds a degree in chemical engineering from the
University of Illinois and an MBA from Southern Methodist
University. He’s married with two children.  
 He served as one of former BP CEO  John Browne’s  executive
assistants, a position that traditionally leads to bigger roles.
Browne wrote in his memoir of how his assistants were known as
“Turtles” after the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, because of
“their speed and ability to appear whenever they were needed.”  
 Dudley ran Amoco Corp.’s Russian operations from 1994 to
1997, before its 1998 acquisition by BP. Before running TNK-BP,
Dudley oversaw BP’s exploration and production across Russia,
the Caspian, Angola, Algeria and Egypt.  
 “I don’t believe we could have a better person to lead
this organization,” current CEO Tony Hayward said last month
when he announced Dudley’s role in heading the unit that will
take responsibility for the spill.  
 Biloxi Summers  
 Dudley grew up in Hattiesburg about 80 miles north of the
Gulf Coast and spent summers in Gulfport and Biloxi along the
water. During a visit to the area in June he said the damage
caused by the spill hit him hard.  
 “What I saw was painful and emotional, and shocking,”
Dudley  said  after a trip to Louisiana.  
 Dudley has been a regular on the U.S. television circuit
since the early days of the crisis, defending the company’s
strategy, and has also sought to spread BP’s message to a
business audience.  
 “Operating at the frontiers of any industry is risky, and
it is that trade-off that governments, people, and industry will
make together,” he told executives in Boston on May 6.  
 Dudley’s latest role will put him in front of the world’s
media, a spot he last encountered as head of BP’s  TNK-BP  unit in
Russia between 2003 and 2008.  
 Strategy Disputes  
 BP’s Russian partners called for Dudley’s dismissal in 2008
in a dispute over strategy at Russia’s third-biggest oil
company, alleging he ignored their interests. He denied the
charge.  
 Workers seconded by  BP  were barred from working in Moscow,
while the successor to the Soviet KGB raided its office and an
employee was charged with industrial espionage. In the end,
Dudley fled the country, citing “sustained harassment” amid
court battles and labor and tax inspections.  
 Dudley continued to run the unit from an undisclosed
location, only stepping down as part of a settlement between the
factions reached in September 2008.  
 His efforts in Russia were rewarded with a place on BP’s
board and the appointment as managing director for government
relations and non-operational matters in the Americas and Asia.  
 “Surviving Russia shows Dudley can tackle a lot of stress
and strain,” said DnB’s Isfeldt. “He maintained BP’s assets in
Russia. He is able to work with strong counterparts. This should
mean BP can continue into the future without becoming a fully
declining oil company.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Robert Dudley is poised to become the first American head of BP. Photographer: Graham Barclay/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Andy Lipow, president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC, talks about his expectations for Robert Dudley as a potential replacement for BP Plc Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward.
     BP said in a statement today that no final decision has been made on management changes. Lipow talks with Matt Miller and Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Fadel Gheit, managing director of oil and gas research at Oppenheimer & Co., talks about the possibility that Tony Hayward will be replaced by Robert Dudley as chief executive at BP Plc.
     Gheit, talking with Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop," also comments on the potential costs the company faces from the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. (This is an excerpt of the full interview. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
