-- Eastern European Malls Use Dinosaurs, Spas to Lure Shoppers
-- Edith Balazs
-- 2010-07-26T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/east-european-malls-breed-dinosaurs-to-lure-buyers-in-shopping-recession.html

          
          
             If Christian  Dior ’s brand name can’t
attract customers, maybe dinosaurs will.  
 That’s the plan behind  Galerie Harfa , a half-built shopping
mall perched above Prague’s Vysocany suburb that will have a
dinosaur-themed amusement park, fitness center and rooftop
swimming pool.  
 As the economic slowdown squeezes retail sales in the Czech
Republic and Hungary, companies such as  Hochtief AG , Strabag SE
and  Skanska AB  help construct venues with spas and electric-car
tracks to lure shoppers. Mall space has more than quadrupled
since the former Communist nations joined the European Union in
2004, exacerbating the need to offer more than just shopping.  
 “It’s not enough to line up the usual suspects like Zara,
Esprit and H&M,” said Lenka Hartmanova, a Prague-based analyst
at real estate company  DTZ Holdings Plc . “People want a
shopping experience, not just a giant box of corrugated iron
sitting next to the highway.”  
 Construction slowed last year as the global financial
crisis sapped consumer confidence. Hungary added 190,000 square
meters (623,400 square feet) of retail space in 2009, down from
more than 270,000 in 2008, and development slowed further this
year, according to data compiled by  CB Richard Ellis .  
 Hungarian Retail  
 Hungarian retail sales declined for 39 straight months
through April and rents dropped as much as 30 percent from their
peak in 2007, CB Richard Ellis data show. In the Czech Republic,
rents fell 25 percent during the same period.  
 Harfa, one of two malls under construction in the Czech
Republic, is seeking occupants for 10 percent of its 41,000
square meters of commercial space, four months before the venue
opens.  
 To avoid rent markdowns,  Lighthouse Group , Harfa’s
developer, is luring prospective tenants by fitting out store
interiors and providing extra maintenance services, said Chief
Executive Officer Tamir Winterstein. It’s a significant change
from two years ago when even small brands fought to get their
foot in the door, he said.  
 “All of us were taken aback by the intensity and speed of
the crisis,” Winterstein said in a July 1 interview at his
Prague office on the bank of the Vltava River. “There was no
comparison with previous downturns. Still, shopping centers are
a long-term business, and if you differentiate yourself you have
a good chance of succeeding.”  
 Galerie Harfa will seek to succeed by defining itself as a
place for fitness and family through such attractions as a
rooftop  park  featuring life-sized replicas of dinosaurs such as
Tyrannosaurus Rex and Triceratops lurking among towering palm
trees and grass knolls and areas for jogging and in-line
skating.  
 Low End  
 Not all mall owners are taking the high-end route. The
Lurdy Haz shopping center in the blue-collar part of Budapest’s
ninth district caters to the less affluent.  
 “We have decided to adjust our retail offer to the purse
of our customers and move in the direction of less
sophisticated, more solid brands,” said Gyula Pek, Lurdy Haz’s
marketing manager. “You can’t sell Gucci in this district.”  
 Commercial  developers  will have to change their strategy,
said Alexander Rafajlovic, head of research at Cushman &
Wakefield Inc. in Prague. An option is cutting the size of
supermarkets that anchor shopping centers and rent the space to
smaller retailers, he said.  
 Going Gourmet  
 Another way is to build smaller shopping malls around a
distinct theme such as food or furniture depending on the
location, according to DTZ’s Hartmanova.  
 At the 55,000-square meter Chodov mall near the southern
edge of Prague, Eva Pleskacova and her friend Iva took a break
from summer shopping to watch their children romp at an indoor
playground on the second floor.  
 “I come here when I get depressed because it’s so pretty
and it’s always full of beautiful people,” said the mother of
two, clutching an array of bags emblazoned with names of fashion
brands. “They have many different activities for the kids, so
we’re here all the time.”  
 Less-attractive malls haven’t survived the  recession . A
shopping center at the Stodulky neighborhood in the west of
Prague closed last year after it failed to draw shoppers.  
 “Developers are learning the hard way,” DTZ’s Hartmanova
said. “Everything happened too fast here and now it’s time to
sober up.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        