-- Eircom Bondholders Said to Consult Advisors Amid Loan Covenant Concerns
-- Karen Eeuwens
-- 2010-07-26T11:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/eircom-bondholders-said-to-consult-advisors-amid-loan-covenant-concerns.html

          
          
             Houlihan Lokey Howard & Zukin, the
U.S.-based investment bank that specializes in financial
restructuring, is advising  Eircom Group Ltd. ’s bondholders amid
concern the company will breach debt conditions next year,
according to three people familiar with the situation.  
 Investors holding 210 million euros ($271 million), or 60
percent, of the floating-rate notes of Ireland’s largest phone
operator are also consulting law firm Caldwalader, Wicksham &
Taft LLP, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because discussions are private. Dublin-based Eircom may breach
covenants on its loans in 2011, Standard & Poor’s said in a July
report.  
 “It makes sense at this stage to get organized as there is
a sense of inevitability about the breach,” said  Jonathan Moore , a high-yield debt strategist at Evolution Securities Ltd.
in London.  
 Paul Bradley , a spokesman for Eircom declined to comment,
as did  Andrea Hewitt , a London-based spokeswoman for Houlihan
Lokey. A spokesman for Cadwalader, who declined to be
identified, wouldn’t comment.  
 Eircom has 3.3 billion euros of loans, of which 542 million
euros comes due in 2013, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company’s floating-rate notes were issued through
its ERC Ireland Finance unit and the securities are quoted at
40.5 cents on the euro, up from 33 cents at the beginning of
July, according to HSBC Holdings Plc prices on Bloomberg.  
 Eircom is ranked at B-, six steps below investment grade,
at S&P and the ratings firm revised its outlook on the company
to negative from stable earlier this month. Holders of the
floating-rate notes will recover less than 10 percent in the
event of a default, S&P said in January.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kate Haywood  in London at 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net 
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Eeuwens  in London 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        