-- Emerging-Market Stocks Rise for Fifth Day on Recovery, Stress Test Result
-- Michael Patterson
-- 2010-07-26T22:58:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/emerging-market-stocks-rise-for-fifth-day-on-recovery-stress-test-results.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks gained for a
fifth day and currencies strengthened after South Korea’s
economy grew faster than analysts estimated and most European
banks passed stress tests assessing their strength of capital.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  climbed 0.4 percent to
985.48 as of 5 p.m. in New York, bringing its five-day rally to
4.3 percent. South Korea’s won appreciated 0.7 percent against
the dollar while the Polish zloty rose 0.9 percent versus the
euro. The extra yield on developing-nation debt over U.S.
Treasuries dropped seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point,
to 283 basis points, the lowest since May 13, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index.  
 South Korea’s  gross domestic product  expanded 1.5 percent
in the second quarter from the previous three months, compared
with the 1.3 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
economists. The MSCI gauge for Eastern Europe climbed 1.9
percent after the stress test results that Credit Suisse Group
AG said were “mildly positive.”  
 “I am bullish for the second half,”  Steve Bernstein ,
chief executive officer and senior managing director of
Oppenheimer Investments in Asia, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “The second half of the year is going to be focused
more on what happens in Europe and in the U.S.”  
 South Korea’s Kospi Index of shares advanced 0.6 percent.
 LG Electronics Inc. , the country’s second-largest electronics
maker, advanced 4.2 percent after JPMorgan raised the stock’s
rating to “overweight” from “neutral.”  Korea Life Insurance
Co.  climbed 3.3 percent.  
 Stress Test  
 The MSCI EM Eastern Europe Index climbed to its highest
closing level since May 13 after European regulators said July
23 that of 91 European Union banks subjected to stress tests,
only seven failed, with a combined capital shortfall of 3.5
billion euros ($4.5 billion). The tests “achieved a sufficient
level of rigor to be taken seriously,” Credit Suisse analysts
led by  Daniel Davies  wrote in a report dated July 23.  
 Russia’s Micex Index advanced 1.2 percent.  OAO Rosneft , the
country’s largest oil producer, surged 3.4 after it said second-
quarter profit advanced 60 percent on higher oil prices and
output.  
 Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index rose for a sixth day, the
longest streak since April, after economists pared their bets
for central bank interest-rate increases.  
 Tele Norte Leste Participacoes SA  surged the most in two
months amid speculation Portugal Telecom SGPS SA may invest in
the Brazilian phone company, known as Oi.  MRV Engenharia &
Participacoes SA  led a rally by homebuilders amid speculation
borrowing costs will rise more slowly.  
 China, India  
 The Shanghai Composite Index increased 0.7 percent,
climbing for a sixth day in the longest winning streak since
November 2009. Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. gained 6.4 percent,
the most in four months, on expectations China’s plan to limit
metal output will benefit bigger producers.  
 Maruti Suzuki India Ltd.  tumbled 12 percent, the biggest
loss among the 756 members in the MSCI global gauge for
developing nations, after the country’s biggest carmaker
reported the first drop in net income in five quarters. India’s
benchmark Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, lost
0.6 percent.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Steve Bernstein, chief executive officer of Oppenheimer Investments Asia Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about his investment strategy for Asian stocks. 
     Bernstein, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for Chinese banks and initial public offerings. (Excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
