-- EMI Deal Ruling Against Citigroup in Terra Firma's Suit Explained by Judge
-- Thom Weidlich
-- 2010-07-26T22:19:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/emi-deal-ruling-against-citigroup-in-terra-firma-s-suit-explained-by-judge.html

          
          
             Citigroup Inc.  lost its bid to toss
a lawsuit accusing it of tricking Terra Firma Capital Partners
Ltd. into buying  EMI Group Ltd.  because none of the deal
documents forced Terra Firma to sue in England, a judge said.  
 U.S. District Judge  Jed Rakoff  in Manhattan in a two-page
order March 24 denied Citigroup’s request to dismiss the case
and said he would explain his reasoning at a later date.  
 In an opinion released today, the judge outlined why he
rejected the bank’s argument that the dispute belongs in a U.K.
court and why he allowed the case to proceed in New York.  
 Terra Firma accuses Citigroup of misrepresenting that
another private-equity firm, Cerberus Capital Management LP, was
still bidding on the music recording and publishing company,
according to its complaint. Terra Firma seeks to recover “lost
equity of billions of dollars” and obtain punitive damages from
 Citigroup , which stood to garner substantial fees as investment
adviser and lender to EMI and sole financier to Terra Firma,
according to the complaint.  
 For both private and public reasons, Rakoff also rejected
Citigroup’s argument that New York, its headquarters city, is an
inconvenient forum.  
 ‘Legitimate Interest’  
 “As to the public factors, there is a legitimate U.S.
interest in learning whether Citi, a major American bank, may be
liable for fraudulent inducement, and thus subject to
substantial damages,” Rakoff wrote.  
 Danielle Romero-Apsilos , a Citigroup spokeswoman, said in
an e-mail, “We continue to believe that the plaintiff’s lawsuit
is entirely without merit and we intend to seek its dismissal.”  
 When other private-equity firms dropped out of the EMI
bidding, Citigroup misrepresented that New York-based Cerberus
was actively participating in the auction and that London-based
Terra Firma would lose the EMI bid unless it raised its offer,
according to the complaint. Terra Firma bought EMI in 2007.  
 Terra Firma said it paid an inflated price for EMI, also
based in London, because of Citigroup’s misrepresentation. The
private-equity firm paid 4 billion pounds ($6.19 billion). It
said it wouldn’t have bid for the music company had it known
that Cerberus wasn’t participating.  
 Rakoff said one document, called the Project Mulberry
Agreement, that Terra Firma signed when it first entered the
bidding, required Citigroup to sue Terra Firma or EMI in England
to enforce its terms. It didn’t require Terra Firma to sue
there, the judge said.  
 Another document also didn’t require the private-equity
firm to sue in England, he said.  
 Beatles, Coldplay  
 Terra Firma’s purchase of EMI, at the height of the
leveraged-buyout boom, gave the firm control of the record label
of the Beatles, Coldplay and  Norah Jones .  
 Citigroup argued that documents in the deal said any
dispute should be handled in U.K. courts. Terra Firma said the
documents didn’t obligate it to sue there, and Rakoff agreed.  
 The buyout firm sued Dec. 11 in New York state court. The
case was later moved to federal court in Manhattan. A trial is
set for Oct. 18, according to Terra Firma’s court papers.  
 Guy Hands , Terra Firma’s founder and chairman, stepped down
as chief executive officer last year after the firm wrote off
about half its EMI investment.  
 Buyout firms including Terra Firma typically use loans
secured on the targets they acquire to finance about two-thirds
of the purchase price, and cash from their own funds for the
rest. The firms usually invest no more than 20 percent of their
funds in one company.  
 Citigroup is represented by  Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton &
Garrison LLP , and Terra Firma by  Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP .
Both firms are based in New York.  
 The case is Terra Firma v. Citigroup, 09-cv-10459, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in New York federal court at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        