-- Emirates NBD Second-Quarter Net Drops 53%, Below Estimates, on Loan Losses
-- Arif Sharif
-- 2010-07-26T13:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/emirates-nbd-second-quarter-net-drops-53-below-estimates-on-loan-losses.html

          
          
             Emirates NBD PJSC  reported a worse-
than-expected 53 percent decline in second-quarter profit as the
United Arab Emirates’ biggest bank by assets set aside money to
cover bad loans including exposure to state-owned Dubai World.  
 Net income  dropped to 398.2 million dirhams ($108 million)
from 852 million dirhams a year earlier, the Dubai government-
controlled  bank said  in a statement to the bourse today. That
fell short of the median  estimate  of four analysts for a profit
of 614 million dirhams, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Emirates NBD raised general provisions for future loan
impairments by 668 million dirhams in the second quarter, mainly
to cover losses related to Dubai World, Chief Executive Officer
 Rick Pudner  said in a conference call. Dubai World, which is
delaying repayment of $14.4 billion of bank loans, is likely to
complete the accord to restructure the debt by “about September,
so we will know the specifics” of provisions then, he said.  
 U.A.E. banks are being hurt as the global credit crisis has
weakened lending and investment banking activity, while
provisions for defaults on loan repayments are rising. Emirates
NBD is one of the biggest lenders to Dubai World, and the lender
did not book “specific provisions” for impaired loans to the
state-owned company, according to the statement.  
 Emirates NBD  shares rose 0.8 percent to close at 2.5
dirhams after falling as much as 2.8 percent earlier. The shares
have dropped 15 percent this year, compared with a 10 percent
drop in the Dubai Financial Market  Financial Banks Index .  
 Difficult First Half  
 “The real surprise was the loan loss provisions which
doubled from the previous quarter,”  Murad Ansari , a Riyadh-based
analyst at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE said in a phone interview
today. “Revenue more or less met our expectations.”  
 The first half was difficult for U.A.E. banks as rising
retail and corporate impairments, debt restructuring at Dubai
government-related entities, reduced lending and high loan-to-
deposit ratios resulted in some stagnation, Fitch Ratings said
in a report in June. The average non-performing loans to gross
loans ratio for the nine largest banks in the U.A.E. rose to 4.3
percent in 2009 from 1.7 percent at the end of 2008, Fitch said.  
 U.A.E. economic growth may accelerate to 3.2 percent this
year, with oil prices at $85 a barrel, from 1.3 percent in 2009,
Economy Minister  Sultan Bin Saeed al-Mansouri  said in May.  
 Provisions  
 Emirates NBD said overall provisions for bad loans and
investments rose 3.8 percent from a year earlier to 1.19 billion
dirhams, taking the bank’s non-performing loans to total loans
ratio to 2.88 percent. The bank booked 554.7 million dirhams as
provisions in the  first quarter . Overall loans fell 5 percent at
the end of June to 203.7 billion dirhams from December, while
bank deposits grew 9 percent to 197.6 billion dirhams.  
 Emirates NBD expects loan growth to be “flat” this year and
its non-performing loans ratio to rise to about 3 percent to 3.5
percent by the end of this year, Pudner said on the conference
call. “Credit metrics remain in line with our expectations and
profitability remains good despite having conservatively added
to our portfolio impairments,” he said in the statement earlier.  
 The bank’s net interest income rose 0.4 percent to 1.72
billion dirhams, while the net interest margin, the difference
between what the bank earns on loans and pays out on deposits
and funds, narrowed to 2.54 percent in the second-quarter from
2.59 percent in the first. Operating expenses fell 18 percent
from the first quarter.  
 Restructuring, CFO  
 “Economic activity and credit expansion in the second
quarter remained relatively subdued as a result of renewed
global uncertainties,” Emirates NBD said. “Good progress is
being made in resolving key debt restructurings and expected
resolution during the next half year is expected to improve
confidence and activity.”  
 The bank is raising $250 million for five years from an
auto loan securitization program, which it expects to complete
by the middle of August, Pudner said. It is also holding talks
for the sale of a minority stake in its credit card processing
unit Network International LLC and the bank expects to complete
this in three to four months, he said.  
 Emirates NBD appointed  Surya Subramanian  as chief financial
officer, Pudner said. Subramanian will join next month and
replace  Sanjay Uppal , who stepped down in April.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at   asharif2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        