-- Ten-Year Bonds Advance as Moody's Raises Indian Local-Currency Debt Rating
-- V. Ramakrishnan
-- 2010-07-26T13:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/ten-year-bonds-advance-as-moody-s-raises-indian-local-currency-debt-rating.html

          
          
             India’s bonds gained the most in a
week after Moody’s Investors Service raised the country’s local-
currency debt rating by one level to Ba1, the highest non-
investment grade.  
 The yield on benchmark notes due 2020 declined from their
highest level in more than a month after fuel subsidy cuts and
revenue from the auction of wireless permits prompted Moody’s to
raise its assessment of public finances. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is trying to rein in India’s  budget deficit , which reached
a 16-year high of 6.9 percent of gross domestic product in the
fiscal year ended March 31.  
 “This is a positive development for an investor who is
looking to buy local assets,” said  Krish Ramkumar , who manages
the equivalent of $700 million in debt at Sundaram BNP Paribas
Asset Management Co. in Mumbai. “It’s a good sign for bonds as
flows to the market will increase.”  
 The yield on the 7.80 percent note due in May 2020 slipped
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.67 percent as of
the 5:30 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s
trading system. The price rose 0.10, or 10 paise per 100-rupee
face amount, to 100.87.  
 One-year interest-rate swaps, derivative contracts used to
guard against fluctuations in borrowing costs, increased. The
fixed payment made to receive a floating rate rose to 5.92
percent from 5.89 percent on July 23.  
 Interest-Rate Outlook  
 Bonds fell earlier today as economists forecast the central
bank will raise borrowing costs this week to contain inflation.  
 The central bank today said that monetary policy steps are
a “necessity” to control inflation, signaling the possibility
of an interest-rate increase tomorrow.  
 “For containing the inflation persistence and anchoring
inflation expectations, anti-inflationary monetary policy
actions become a necessity,” the Reserve Bank of India said in
a report on the economy, a day before central bank Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao unveils his monetary policy.  
 The Reserve Bank will lift its reverse-repurchase rate by a
quarter of a percentage point to 4.25 percent tomorrow,
according to all 20 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
increase, which would be the fourth this year, may help temper
inflation that climbed to a 19-month high in June.  
 The wholesale-price index rose 10.6 percent from a year
earlier in June, following a 10.2 percent gain in May, official
data show. April’s 11.2 percent increase was the biggest since
September 2008.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anoop Agrawal  in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net ;
 V. Ramakrishnan  in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        