-- Merkel Applauds Giant Rats, Big Egg in Swan Opera at Bayreuth
-- Shirley Apthorp
-- 2010-07-26T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/merkel-cabinet-applaud-giant-rats-big-egg-as-swan-opera-opens-bayreuth.html

          
          
             German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
ended her weekend at Hitler’s favorite opera house along with a
hundred monster rats and a large proportion of her cabinet.  
 Merkel was one of many guests of honor at the July 25
opening night of the 99th  Richard Wagner Festival  in Bayreuth.
Along with politicians, film stars, nobility and Wagner fans,
she attended the premiere of “Lohengrin.”  
 Storms of boos greeted stage director  Hans Neuenfels  at the
end of the 5-1/2 hour evening. Along with the monster rats, his
production featured a dead horse, a plucked swan, and a team of
laboratory assistants in protective clothing. The cast, starring
tenor  Jonas Kaufmann , won enthusiastic applause.  
 Neuenfels, 69, has been known throughout his career as a
provocateur. For the Bayreuth Festival’s new leadership, the
boos cannot have come as a surprise. Composer  Richard Wagner’s 
great-granddaughters  Eva Wagner-Pasquier  and  Katharina Wagner ,
directing their first festival, applauded Neuenfels
demonstratively. So did Merkel. Eva, 64, and Katharina, 32,
succeeded Wagner grandson Wolfgang, who died at the age of 90 in
March after 57 years at the helm.  
 For Sunday’s premiere, police cordoned off the main street
and entrance leading to the Bayreuth Festival House, built by
Wagner for his  operas in 1876. A hangout of the Nazi regime
until the end of World War II, Bayreuth returned to its place as
Germany’s preferred summer opera festival after a 1950s clean-
out. The new regime has announced its intention of blowing the
dust of conservatism from the house.  
 Celeb Spotting  
 Hours before the opera started, crowds of onlookers
gathered to catch a glimpse of arriving celebrities. Die-hard
Wagnerians stood on the fringes with “Suche Karte” signs,
hoping in vain for a returned ticket. Some 350,000 people
applied for the 58,000 tickets available this year, and the
waiting list for the world’s most wanted opera event is said to
be 10 years long.  
 Neuenfels and designer Reinhard von der Thannen treated the
assembled elite to a feast of nihilistic symbolism. In their
hands, Wagner’s consummately German tale of endangered damsel
Elsa, wicked schemer Telramund, and enigmatic Grail knight
Lohengrin became an allegory of human failure. A chorus of
oversized rodents with surprisingly realistic rubber hands,
feet, and tails scuttled through the action as protagonists of a
flawed democracy, leaving the non-rat principals alienated in a
grotesque experimental laboratory.  
 Giant Egg  
 Swan symbols abounded, often drawing snorts and giggles
from the normally solemn Bayreuth public. A plucked swan with a
halo at the end of the first act and a giant egg concealing lost
Gottfried in the finale both won guffaws. Chuckles also greeted
evil Ortrud’s strangulation of Elsa’s giant ceramic swan in the
second act. But the dominant mood was one of melancholy.
Wagner’s saddest opera found Neuenfels, whose work often
features castration, sex toys and quantities of stage blood, in
mild and elegiac mode.  
 In the title role, Jonas Kaufmann remained consummately
human throughout, in a performance that was both throatily
heroic and emotional. Annette Dasch, as his Elsa, was sweetly
lyrical, while Evelyn Herlitzius gave her all as an intensely
physical Ortrud. Georg Zeppenfeld was a vulnerable, expressive
King Heinrich, and all four made lithe and compelling actors.  
 Giving his Bayreuth debut, Latvian conductor  Andris Nelsons , 31, kept the drama taut and drew a dazzling range of
colors from the orchestra. All newcomers battle with the
notoriously tricky Bayreuth acoustic, but if Nelsons sometimes
opted for thrill rather than transparency, he made up for it
through the fine sensitivity of his work with the singers.  
 “Lohengrin” runs through Aug. 27. All the performances
are sold out. Information:  http://www.bayreuther-festspiele.de .
The festival’s main sponsors are Audi AG, Volkswagen AG’s luxury
brand, and Siemens AG.  
 ( Shirley Apthorp  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Shirley Apthorp  in Bayreuth at  sarabande100@aol.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Soprano Annette Dasch, left, and bass Georg Zeppenfeld in Act I of the Richard Wagner opera "Lohengrin" at the Bayreuth Festival. The Hans Neuenfels production premiered on July 25 at the annual festival founded by the composer. Source: Bayreuth Festival via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Sopranos Annette Dasch, left, and Evelyn Herlitzius in Act II of the Richard Wagner opera "Lohengrin" at the Bayreuth Festival. The Hans Neuenfels production premiered on July 25 at the annual opera festival founded by the composer. Source: Bayreuth Festival via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
