-- EU Stress Tests May Be `Missed Opportunity' to Fortify Banks
-- Andrew MacAskill
-- 2010-07-26T10:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/eu-stress-tests-may-be-missed-opportunity-to-fortify-banks.html

          
          
             European Union  stress tests found
banks need to raise 3.5 billion euros ($4.5 billion) of capital,
about a tenth of the lowest analyst estimate, leaving doubts
about whether regulators were tough enough.  
 “The stress tests are a helpful step forward in a number
of areas,”  Huw van Steenis , head of European banks research at
Morgan Stanley in London, said on a conference call yesterday.
“But they are not going to be the game changer that we were
really hoping and in some cases are a missed opportunity.”  
 European banking shares rose after the tests found that
only Germany’s  Hypo Real Estate Holding AG ,  Agricultural Bank of
Greece SA  and five Spanish savings banks lacked adequate
reserves to maintain a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6
percent in the event of a recession and sovereign-debt crisis,
according to results published July 23. The banks that failed
the stress tests are in “close contact” with national
authorities over how they will raise capital, said the  Committee
of European Banking Supervisors , which ran the assessments of 91
lenders.  
 “The worst fears have not been realized,” said  Mike Lenhoff , chief strategist at London-based Brewin Dolphin
Securities Ltd., which oversees $33 billion. “Nobody would say
we are looking at a complete and utter disaster here in the
euro-zone banking system.”  
 Allied Irish Banks Plc,  Dexia SA  and Societe Generale SA
led European bank stocks higher. The 54-company  Bloomberg Europe
Banks and Financial Services Index  rose 0.5 percent.  
 ‘Work to Do’  
 Had the Tier 1 threshold been 7 percent, 24 of the banks
would have failed, said  Andrew Sheets , Morgan Stanley’s head of
European credit strategy in London, on the conference call. For
some, there is “serious work to do,” he said.  
 Italy’s Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA , Spain’s Banco Pastor
SA and Bankinter SA, and Germany’s  Deutsche Postbank AG  were
among 17 banks that showed a drop in their capital ratio to
between 6 percent and 7 percent under the toughest scenario,
according to figures released by CEBs.  
 Bankinter is sufficiently capitalized, Finance Director
 David Perez Renovales  told Bloomberg Television today. Banco
Pastor’s capital levels are adequate for now, a spokesman for
the bank said. Monte dei Paschi said on July 23 the test’s
adverse scenario shouldn’t be considered as “representative of
the current situation or possible present capital needs.”
Postbank plans to boost reserves with earnings, spokesman
 Joachim Strunk  in Bonn said today.  
 No Surprises  
 Before the results were published, analysts at Nomura
Holdings Inc. estimated the banks would have to raise 30 billion
euros.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  predicted they would need 38
billion euros and Barclays Capital said they would require as
much as 85 billion euros. Tests carried out in the U.S. last
year found that 10 lenders, including  Bank of America Corp.  and
Citigroup Inc., needed $74.6 billion.  
 “If we had at least one bank which the markets hadn’t
really expected to fail, that would have given the stress tests
more credibility,” said  Lothar Mentel , chief investment officer
at Octopus Investments Ltd. in London, whose team manages more
than 600 million pounds ($926 million). “That hasn’t
happened.”  
 The European tests ignored the majority of banks’ holdings
of sovereign debt. Regulators don’t believe there will be a
national default, European Central Bank Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said July 23. The evaluations took into account
potential losses only on government bonds the banks trade,
rather than those they are holding until maturity, CEBS said.  
 Sovereign Stress  
 “The fact that they did not stress the bank book is going
to be seen as a weakness,” said  Robert Talbut , chief investment
officer at Royal London Asset Management Ltd., which oversees
about $52 billion. “I don’t think the results of the tests will
resolve anything.”  
 Lenders hold about 90 percent of their Greek government
bonds in their banking book and 10 percent in their trading
book, according to a survey by Morgan Stanley. They have to
write down the value of bonds in their banking book only if
there is serious doubt about a state’s ability to repay in full
or make interest payments.  
 Twenty-four banks would have fallen below the 6 percent
capital threshold had the test included losses on sovereign debt
held in banking books, Citigroup Inc. analysts led by  Ronit Ghose  said in a note to clients. The combined capital deficit of
those banks would have reached 15 billion euros, they said.  
 Citigroup said that 85 banks provided breakdowns of their
government-debt holdings when they published the stress test
results. The six that didn’t are all German banks and include
Deutsche Bank AG, the country’s biggest bank, Citigroup said.  
 Capital Already Raised  
 The stress tests assumed a loss of 23.1 percent on Greek
debt, 14 percent on Portuguese bonds, 12.3 percent on Spanish
debt, and 4.7 percent on German state debt, according to CEBS.
U.K. government bonds were subject to a 10 percent haircut and
France 5.9 percent, CEBS said.  
 The stress tests are rigorous enough to be taken seriously,
Credit Suisse Group AG analysts led by  Daniel Davies  said in a
report. Banks passed because the European industry has raised
220 billion euros in the last 18 months to bolster capital, they
said.  
 The Credit Suisse analysts found that the majority of banks
still passed the tests when they were reengineered to include
bigger haircuts on sovereign debt and better quality capital.
Under those more rigorous tests, seven Greek banks and KBC Groep
NV would fail.  
 “The criteria used by CEBS created a level playing field
for all 91 banks,”  Viviane Huybrecht , a spokeswoman for KBC in
Brussels, said by phone. “If you now come up with other
criteria then of course you end up with other results.”  
 Funding Markets  
 Calls to Alpha Bank AE,  National Bank of Greece SA ,
Hellenic Postbank SA, EFG Eurobank Ergasias, Bank of Cyprus Pcl
and  Piraeus Bank SA  out of office hours were not immediately
returned.  
 The tests will be seen as “broadly successful” if the
funding markets continue their recovery, said  Arturo de Frias , a
London-based analyst at Evolution Securities. The exams are
“much more aimed at restoring confidence of bond investors and
providers of short-term liquidity than for equity investors,”
he said.  
 The cost of borrowing in euros for three months rose to the
highest level in almost a year today. The euro interbank offered
rate, or  Euribor , advanced less than one basis point to 0.889
percent today, the most since July 31, 2009, data from the
European Banking Federation showed. The rate climbed for the
41st consecutive day, the data showed.  
 ‘Safe to Invest’  
 European governments aimed to use their first coordinated
stress tests to reassure investors about the health of financial
institutions after the debt crisis pummeled the bonds of Greece,
Spain and Portugal. Mounting budget deficits in those countries
raised concern that they won’t be able to pay their debts.  
 “The results give you the go-ahead that it’s safe to
invest in banks,” said  David Serra , co-founder of Algebris
Investments, a fund manager which has shares in Societe Generale
SA and  Banco Santander SA . “We have just had one of the biggest
crises and the message from these tests is that the banking
system can withstand a double dip.”  
 The U.S. stress tests carried out last year were criticized
at the time for being too soft. Yet the evaluations on 19 banks
helped persuade investors that the financial system was sound,
contributing to a 36 percent rally in the  Standard & Poor’s
Financials Index  in the following seven months.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew MacAskill  in London at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       European Central Bank Vice President Vitor Constancio  
                       
                         
                           Mario Proenca/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Vitor Constancio, governor of the bank of Portugal and European Central Bank vice president-elect, listens at a press conference in Lisbon. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Vitor Constancio, governor of the bank of Portugal and European Central Bank vice president-elect, listens at a press conference in Lisbon. Photographer: Mario Proenca/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- David Perez Renovales, head of finance and risk at Bankinter SA, talks about the bank's performance in the European stress tests.
     He speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Chris Skinner, chief executive officer of Balatro Ltd., a banking industry research firm, talks about the criteria used to conduct stress tests on 91 European banks.
     European Union stress tests found banks need to raise 3.5 billion euros ($4.5 billion) of capital, leaving doubts about whether regulators were tough enough. Skinner speaks with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Hans-Guenter Redeker, global head of currency strategy at BNP Paribas SA, talks about the results of the European bank stress tests. 
     He speaks from London with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Guido Ravoet, secretary general of the European Banking Federation, talks about the results of stress tests on 91 European banks.
     He speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Christopher Whalen, managing director of Institutional Risk Analytics, discusses the implications of the European Union bank stress tests and the outlook for consolidation in the EU financial industry.
     Whalen speaks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack.” (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- David Forrester, a currency economist at Barclays Capital in Singapore, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the outlook for the euro. 
     The combination of growing confidence in Europe’s economy and mounting evidence of a slowdown in the U.S. is driving euro bears into hiding. After tracking the euro’s slide from about $1.45 at the beginning of 2010, the median forecast of currency strategists has stayed within two cents of $1.20 since the start of June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Forrester, speaking from Singapore, also discusses the results of stress tests on European banks released last week. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Adrian Foster, head of financial-markets research for Asia at Rabobank Groep NV in Hong Kong, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the results of stress tests on European banks and the outlook for the region's economies. 
     European regulators found that seven banks need to raise a combined 3.5 billion euros ($4.5 billion) of capital. Germany’s Hypo Real Estate Holding AG, Agricultural Bank of Greece SA and five Spanish savings banks didn’t have adequate reserves to maintain a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6 percent in the event of a recession and sovereign-debt crisis, lenders and regulators said on July 23. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
