-- EU Speeds Iceland Entry Bid as Domestic Qualms Mount
-- Jonathan Stearns
-- 2010-07-26T13:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/eu-speeds-iceland-entry-bid-as-domestic-qualms-mount.html

          
          
             The European Union accelerated
Iceland’s bid to join, trying to overcome mounting domestic
opposition on the North Atlantic island.  
 EU foreign ministers agreed to start the entry talks
tomorrow, setting no deadline for membership and making clear
that the growing anti-EU mood among Iceland’s 320,000 people is
the main obstacle.  
 “We are in favor, of course, but I don’t have the
impression based on the polls that the Icelanders are that much
in favor,” Pierre Lellouche, France’s European-affairs
minister, told reporters at a meeting of EU foreign ministers in
Brussels today. “That’s obviously the whole problem. We aren’t
going to force them.”  
 EU governments brought forward the talks from a planned
September or October start to counter stiffening resistance in
Iceland, which sought EU membership in July 2009 at the depth of
the economic crisis that left it dependent on as much as $10
billion in international loans.  
 A rebounding economy has moved the EU down Iceland’s
agenda. While the government favors EU entry, public opposition
rose to 60 percent in June from 54 percent in November,
according to a Capacent Gallup poll published July 1 by
Iceland’s  RUV  state broadcaster.  
 As a condition for joining, Iceland will come under
pressure to compensate Britain and the Netherlands for losses of
as much as $5.1 billion suffered by their investors in the 2008
collapse of  Landsbanki Islands hf , which offered high-yielding
Icesave Internet accounts.  
 ‘Serious Efforts’  
 Compliance with EU financial-services rules is one of the
areas requiring “serious efforts” by Iceland before it is
admitted, according to an EU memo obtained by Bloomberg News
last week. While the memo didn’t mention the bank-compensation
clash, it points out that any EU country could halt the talks at
any time.  
 Iceland’s permission of whale hunting and control of its
fishing grounds will also face objections from some EU countries
and pose a further obstacle to membership.  
 “Efforts will have to be made by Iceland,” Belgian
Foreign Minister  Steven Vanackere  told reporters after chairing
the Brussels meeting. “Think of environment, think of whale
hunting.”  
 After tomorrow’s ceremonial debut of the talks, the
 European Commission  will assess the compliance of Iceland’s laws
with EU standards. Detailed negotiations in 35 EU policy areas
will get under way in early 2011.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Stearns  in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        