-- EU to Impose Sanctions on Iran in Bid to Halt Nuclear Drive
-- Jonathan Stearns
-- 2010-07-26T17:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/eu-will-impose-sanctions-on-iran-to-ban-oil-investment-scrutinize-banks.html

          
          
             European Union governments imposed
their toughest sanctions yet on Iran, backing U.S. efforts to
force the clerical regime to halt uranium enrichment and stop
any pursuit of a nuclear weapons capability.  
 The package includes a ban on new investment in or
equipment sales to Iran’s oil and natural-gas industries,
restrictions on export-credit guarantees and insurance, and
closer monitoring of banks doing business with Iran.  
 “We’ve sent quite a powerful message to Iran,” EU
foreign-policy chief  Catherine Ashton  told reporters after an EU
meeting in Brussels today. “That message is that their nuclear
program is a cause of serious and growing concern to us.”  
 European curbs went beyond what was spelled out in a  United
Nations Security Council  resolution in June, in a boost to U.S.
President  Barack Obama ’s bid to deepen Iran’s international
isolation.  
 Obama on July 1 signed legislation that punishes foreign
suppliers of Iran’s gasoline and blocks access to the American
financial system for banks that do business with the country.  
 Iran has shrugged off three previous sets of UN sanctions
and denies Western suspicions that it is building bombs, saying
the nuclear program is designed to generate electricity for a
growing population.  
 Trade Relations  
 The new sanctions may have a bigger impact because the EU
is Iran’s top  trading partner  and provides equipment for the
liquid natural gas industry and services such as reinsurance
that Iran is unlikely to get elsewhere, said  Mark Fitzpatrick , a
former U.S. State Department official.  
 “It’s the first time that Iran has really felt sharp
sanctions from countries that have been doing business with
it,” said Fitzpatrick, who runs the non-proliferation program
at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London.
“It’s conceivable that these sanctions will make Iran willing
to make a deal.”  
 Machinery and transport equipment made up more than half of
EU exports to Iran of 14.1 billion euros ($18 billion) in 2008,
the year of the latest figures. Oil and energy products
accounted for 90 percent of the EU’s imports from Iran of 11.3
billion euros.  
 Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  yesterday threatened
retaliation against countries that back the U.S.-led drive for
sanctions.  
 ‘Considered Our Enemy’  
 “Any country that sides with the U.S. in its plot against
Iran will be considered our enemy and will be provided with an
answer,” Ahmadinejad was quoted as saying by the official
 Islamic Republic News Agency . Foreign Ministry Spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  today said the sanctions will have “no effect”
and will only “make the situation more complicated,” the
agency reported.  
 While Iran is the second-largest oil producer in the Middle
East after Saudi Arabia, it imports as much as 40 percent of its
gasoline since it lacks refining capacity for domestic
consumption.  
 Oil Minister  Masoud Mir-Kazemi  said international sanctions
won’t trigger shortages of motor fuel, telling the official news
agency on July 21 that “we have no problems regarding our
gasoline needs.”  
 Gasoline sanctions weren’t mandated by the UN or imposed by
the EU, permitting further deliveries from Russia, which backed
the Security Council resolution. Russia may continue shipping
gasoline, Energy Minister  Sergei Shmatko  said July 14.  
 Bank Restrictions  
 Iranian banks were prohibited from setting up new branches
or joint ventures in Europe, and ordered to seek approval to
process money transfers of more than 40,000 euros.  
 In line with the UN resolution, the EU mandated the
inspection of ship cargoes suspected of carrying equipment for
the nuclear program and banned Iranian air freight from European
airports.  
 The sale to Iran of mainstream technologies with potential
“dual use” in conventional, chemical or biological weapons was
also banned.  
 EU foreign ministers paired the sanctions with a renewed
offer of economic incentives that Iran could tap if it stops
enriching uranium, a key ingredient in nuclear weapons.  
 “The goal is to bring Iran back to the negotiating
table,” German Deputy Foreign Minister  Werner Hoyer  said. “We
don’t believe in the inevitability of escalation. We have always
extended our hand for negotiations, but it has to finally be
accepted.”  
 Parallel Track  
 Ashton, who would conduct the talks on behalf of the five
permanent UN Security Council powers plus Germany, again pressed
Iran to take up the invitation.  
 On a parallel track, Iran today sent a letter to the
International Atomic Energy Agency that expresses its readiness
to start talks on a nuclear fuel swap initiative brokered by
Turkey and Brazil, state-run Press TV reported.  
 Passed on June 9 in a 12-2 vote with one abstention, the UN
resolution also widens the array of Iranian officials and
companies subject to asset freezes. The EU’s blacklist will be
published as soon as tomorrow.  
 Canada today said it’s also imposing new sanctions that go
beyond what the UN called for, such as preventing Iranian banks
from starting operations in Canada and barring domestic banks
from doing business in Iran.  
 “I have yet to meet anyone who thinks this issue is going
to be sorted out by sanctions alone,” Swedish Foreign Minister
 Carl Bildt  said. “There’s also a downside to sanctions. They
tend to reinforce and strengthen and enrich the wrong people.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Stearns  in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     European Union foreign minister Catherine Ashton. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
