-- European Stocks Decline as Drugmakers Retreat
-- Sarah Jones
-- 2010-07-26T16:33:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/european-stock-index-futures-climb-on-bank-stress-tests-bp-bnp-may-move.html

          
          
             European stocks  advanced for a fifth
day as European Union stress-test results showed the majority of
the region’s banks are adequately capitalized and U.S. home
sales rose more than forecast.  
 Allied Irish Banks Plc and Dexia SA rallied more than 5
percent, leading a gauge of banks higher. BP Plc gained 4.6
percent as the oil company was said to be planning on replacing
 Tony Hayward  as chief executive officer. GlaxoSmithKline Plc
lost 1.3 percent after a report that the U.K.’s largest
drugmaker may be interested in buying Genzyme Corp.  
 The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rose 0.5 percent to
257.12 as of the 4:30 p.m. close of trading in London, the
highest level since June 22. The gauge has still retreated 5.5
percent from this year’s high on April 15 on concern that growth
will stall as indebted European governments slash spending.  
 “Economic data itself has continued to improve,”  Gary Baker , the head of BofA Merrill Lynch’s pan-European equity
strategy said at a press briefing in London today. “The real
economy has been relatively good. Valuations are very supportive
and continue to look favorable” for equities, he said.  
 European regulators found that 7 of the 91 banks tested
need to raise a combined 3.5 billion euros ($4.5 billion) of
capital. Before the results were published, analysts at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. estimated that lenders would need to raise 38
billion euros and Barclays Capital said they would require as
much as 85 billion euros.  
 Benchmark Indexes  
 National benchmark indexes rose in 16 of the 18 western
European markets today. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100  increased 0.7
percent and France’s CAC 40 gained 0.8 percent. Germany’s DAX
added 0.5 percent.  
 European stocks reversed earlier losses after a Commerce
Department report showed  sales of new U.S. homes  rose in June by
more than forecast, following an unprecedented collapse the
prior month, a signal the worst of the slump triggered by the
end of a government tax credit may be over.  
 Allied Irish led bank stocks higher, rallying 5.6 percent
to 95 euros cents in Dublin. Dexia climbed 9.1 percent to 3.61
euros, while France’s Societe Generale SA gained 5.2 percent to
39.99 euros. The banks were among 84 to pass the European
banking stress tests.  
 The tests carried out by the Committee of European Banking
Supervisors showed that Germany’s Hypo Real Estate Holding AG,
Agricultural Bank of Greece SA and five Spanish savings banks
didn’t have adequate reserves to maintain a Tier 1 capital ratio
of at least 6 percent in the event of a recession and sovereign-
debt crisis, lenders and regulators said after the close of
European trading on July 23.  
 ‘Credible’ Losses  
 “We find the losses produced by the CEBS credible,” BofA
Merrill Lynch analyst  Derek De Vries  wrote in a report today.
“While some commentators have been critical that the stress
tests didn’t include the impact of sovereign restructuring in
the banking book, we applaud CEBS’ decision to force banks to
disclose all of their sovereign exposure.”  
 BP gained 4.6 percent to 416.95 pence. Two people with
knowledge of the matter said the company is planning to name
 Robert Dudley  to succeed Hayward as chief executive as the board
looks to recover BP’s position in the U.S. after the Gulf of
Mexico oil spill. BP said no final decision has been made
regarding possible management changes.  
 Tullow Oil Plc rallied 5.1 percent to 1,239 pence after the
U.K. explorer with the most licenses in Africa said it
discovered a “major” oil field off the coast of Ghana.  
 Pearson, Glaxo  
 Pearson Plc climbed 5.8 percent to 1,029 pence as the owner
of the Financial Times newspaper raised its outlook for 2010
after first-half profit more than tripled to 92 million pounds
($143 million) on growth in its education business and at book
publisher Penguin.  
 Glaxo slid 1.3 percent to 1,172 pence, leading a gauge of
health-care stocks to the biggest drop among 19  industry groups 
in the Stoxx 600. The company declined to comment on a report in
the Wall Street Journal that it recently made a “very casual”
overture to Genzyme, asking the drugmaker to keep it in mind if
it considered selling itself.  
 Connaught Plc plunged 69 percent to 31.46 pence after the
biggest U.K. public-housing maintenance company said it requires
“urgent” funding to meet the needs of the business. Net debt
will be “significantly in excess” of the 120 million pounds it
forecast for Aug. 31, the company said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 0.4 percent  
                       
                         
                           JB Reed/Bloomberg 
                         
                         GlaxoSmithKline Plc's Avandia diabetes drug. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     GlaxoSmithKline Plc's Avandia diabetes drug. Photographer: JB Reed/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Jonathan Stubbs, head of European and U.K. equity strategy at Citigroup Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about the results of the stress tests for European banks and his investment strategy.
     Stubbs, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for the global economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
