-- Euro Bears Vanish as End of Stress Makes Goldman a Bull
-- Matthew Brown
-- 2010-07-26T15:34:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/euro-bears-vanish-as-end-of-stress-makes-goldman-sachs-a-bull.html

          
          
             The combination of growing
confidence in Europe’s economy and mounting evidence of a
slowdown in the U.S. is driving euro bears into hiding.  
 After tracking the euro’s slide from about $1.45 at the
beginning of 2010, the median forecast of currency strategists
has stayed within two cents of $1.20 since the start of June,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Wells Fargo & Co. raised their estimates in the past
two weeks, joining HSBC Holdings Plc and Deutsche Bank AG in
predicting a stronger euro.  
 While the euro weakened 15 percent in the first half as the
region’s debt crisis threatened to tear the currency union
apart, investors have shifted their focus to the U.S. as the
dollar depreciated 8 percent from a four-year high in June. U.S.
economic data fell short of economists’ estimates this month by
the most since March 2009, while euro-region reports exceeded
forecasts since April, according to Citigroup Inc.  indexes .  
 “People got a bit too excited about the idea the euro-area
was going to break up and forgot that the U.S. has a whole load
of problems of its own,” said  David Bloom , global head of
currency strategy at HSBC in London, who has predicted since the
start of June that the euro would end the year at $1.35.  
 Confidence in the euro returned after the most-indebted
countries in the region announced budget cuts and the European
Union crafted a 750 billion-euro ($970 billion) financial
backstop in May to forestall defaults. Spain, Portugal, Ireland
and Greece successfully auctioned more than 17 billion euros of
bonds and bills since July 13.  
 Economic Outperformance  
 Speculation the recovery would accelerate increased when
Germany’s  Ifo  institute said July 23 that its business climate
index unexpectedly jumped to the highest level since July 2007.
A  composite index  of European services and manufacturing
industries climbed to 56.7 in July from 56 the month before,
London-based Markit Economics said a day earlier.  
 Investors showed little surprise on July 23, when the
 Committee of European Banking Supervisors  said seven of 91 EU
banks subject to stress tests failed with a combined capital
shortfall of 3.5 billion euros.  
 The euro rose 0.5 percent to $1.2974 as of 11:30 a.m. in
New York, after appreciating in three of the past four weeks.
The 16-nation currency appreciated 9 percent since June 7, when
it slid to $1.1877, the weakest level since March 2006. It also
advanced 2.6 percent since falling to a more than seven-year low
on June 29, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes.  
 Outlook Reversed  
 Analysts are raising their forecasts as Citigroup’s  euro-
region economic surprise index  reached a three-year high of 131
on May 27. The equivalent U.S. gauge fell to a 16-month low of
minus 43.6 on July 1. The measures examine historical standard
deviations of data surprises by comparing releases with
Bloomberg median estimates.  
 Goldman Sachs analysts led by  Thomas Stolper  in London
reversed their outlook for the euro twice in two months, and
said in the most recent forecast that the dollar will weaken
against the euro by January as U.S. growth slows. The New York-
based bank says the shared currency will reach $1.22 in three
months, $1.35 in six months and $1.38 in a year. As recently as
June, Goldman Sachs forecast the dollar would surge to a seven-
year high.  
 Weaker Growth  
 “Weaker U.S. growth, reasonably solid euro-zone macro data
and less political-fiscal disruptions than feared have been a
feature of the past few weeks,” Goldman Sachs analysts wrote in
the report dated July 14.  
 Wells Fargo, based in San Francisco, raised its six-month
euro forecast to $1.24 from $1.20 on July 14, said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist in New York.  
 “The main positives for the euro have been stronger-than-
expected euro economic numbers and a recovery in risk
appetite,” he said. Serebriakov said the euro will weaken
longer term, falling to $1.18 in 12 months.  
 While U.S. growth has slowed more than forecast, the
economy will still outpace Europe over the coming year as budget
cuts start to brake the recovery, said  Ian Stannard , a senior
foreign-exchange strategist in London at BNP Paribas SA. The
Paris-based lender scaled back its forecast for a decline in the
euro on July 23, saying it will fall to $1.12 in the first
quarter, from a previous prediction of parity.  
 ‘Still in Place’  
 “The reasons why a weaker euro are both likely and needed
are still in place,” said Stannard. “The market still hasn’t
really adjusted to the prospect of lower euro-zone growth once
the fiscal tightening that has been announced is implemented and
begins to bite.”  
 The U.S. economy will expand 3.1 percent this year,
according to the median of 55 analyst forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg. The euro-region will grow 1.1 percent, a separate
median estimate shows.  
 German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Cabinet approved four
years of budget reductions and revenue programs worth 81.6
billion euros on July 7. Greece aims to cut its budget deficit
to 8.1 percent of gross domestic product this year, from 13.6
percent in 2009, and meet the EU’s 3 percent limit by 2014.
Portugal plans to reach the EU target by 2012, reducing it from
9.4 percent last year.  
 The euro-region deficit will narrow to 6.1 percent of GDP
in 2011 from 6.6 percent this year, according to European
Commission forecasts on May 5. The U.S. gap will hit 10 percent
in 2010 and 9.9 percent next year, the figures show.  
 While European governments are pruning, U.S. President
 Barack Obama  signed into law a $34 billion extension of
unemployment benefits on July 22.  
 Treasury Yields  
 “The market seems to be favoring regions where
policymakers are taking an active role on deficit reduction and
that’s not the U.S.,” said  Thanos Papasavvas , who helps manage
more than $5 billion in currencies at Investec Asset Management
Ltd. in London. “For Europe it may be painful in the short-
term, but they are dealing with it. The U.S., which has a much
bigger problem, isn’t even beginning to deal with it.”  
 At the same time, the bond market is telling the U.S.
government to focus on growth, not the deficit. Yields on  two-
year Treasury notes  fell to a record low 0.5516 percent on July
23 and are 16 basis points, or 0.16 percentage point, less than
similar-maturity German debt.  
 Housing starts  in the U.S. fell more than forecast last
month, the Commerce Department said July 20. Initial jobless
 claims  rose to 464,000 in the week ended July 17, exceeding the
highest estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg, Labor
Department figures on July 22 in Washington showed.  
 Bearish on Dollar  
 Futures traders turned bearish on the dollar for the first
time in almost three months on July 13, according to data from
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission in Washington. So-
called short positions, or bets prices will fall, by hedge funds
and other large speculators outnumbered long positions by 99,175
on July 20, CFTC figures show.  
 The changing fortunes for the euro and the dollar caught
foreign-exchange funds by surprise, according to the  Parker
BlackTree Currency Index , which tracks 22 currency funds that
manage about $15 billion. The index lost 1.7 percent between May
14, when valuations reached the highest level since November,
and July 16.  
 “Foreign exchange is the world’s biggest fruit and
vegetable store, with millions of people playing it 24 hours a
day,” Goldman Sachs Chief Global Economist  Jim O’Neill  said on
July 21 in a radio interview with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg
Surveillance. “Anybody who thinks they can get foreign exchange
right all the time should be in a lunatic asylum.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Euro Bears Vanish as End of Stress Makes Goldman Sachs a Bull. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- David Forrester, a currency economist at Barclays Capital in Singapore, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the outlook for the euro. 
     The combination of growing confidence in Europe’s economy and mounting evidence of a slowdown in the U.S. is driving euro bears into hiding. After tracking the euro’s slide from about $1.45 at the beginning of 2010, the median forecast of currency strategists has stayed within two cents of $1.20 since the start of June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Forrester, speaking from Singapore, also discusses the results of stress tests on European banks released last week. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Hans-Guenter Redeker, global head of currency strategy at BNP Paribas SA, talks about the results of the European bank stress tests. 
     He speaks from London with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Goldman Sachs chief global economist Jim O'Neill. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
