-- European Banks Rise After Stress Tests Ease Concerns Over Capital Levels
-- Andrew MacAskill
-- 2010-07-26T16:34:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/european-banks-rise-after-stress-tests-ease-concerns-over-capital-levels.html

          
          
             European  banks rose, led by Dexia SA
and Alpha Bank SA, after stress tests found the region’s lenders
need to raise 3.5 billion euros ($4.5 billion) of capital, about
a tenth of the lowest analyst estimate.  
 “The results give you the go-ahead that it’s safe to
invest in banks,” said  David Serra , co-founder of Algebris
Investments, a fund manager which has shares in Societe Generale
SA and  Banco Santander SA .  
 The evaluations found that only Germany’s  Hypo Real Estate
Holding AG ,  Agricultural Bank of Greece SA  and five Spanish
savings banks lacked adequate reserves to maintain a Tier 1
capital ratio of at least 6 percent in the event of a recession
and sovereign-debt crisis, according to results published July
23. The banks that failed the stress tests are in contact with
national authorities over how they will raise capital, said the
 Committee of European Banking Supervisors , which ran the
assessments of 91 lenders.  
 Dexia  rose 9.1 percent in Brussels trading, the most since
May 10, while Alpha Bank climbed 7.6 percent in Athens. Allied
Irish Banks Plc jumped 5.6 percent in Dublin and Societe
Generale SA advanced 5.2 percent in Paris. The 54-company
 Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index  rose 1.7
percent.  
 “The worst fears have not been realized,” said  Mike Lenhoff , chief strategist at London-based Brewin Dolphin
Securities Ltd., which oversees $33 billion. “Nobody would say
we are looking at a complete and utter disaster here in the
euro-zone banking system.”  
 Not Tough Enough  
 Before the results were published, analysts at Nomura
Holdings Inc. estimated the banks would have to raise 30 billion
euros. Barclays Capital said they would require as much as 85
billion euros. Tests carried out in the U.S. last year found
that 10 lenders, including  Bank of America Corp.  and Citigroup
Inc., needed $74.6 billion.  
 The amount of capital required by European Union banks led
some analysts to question the stringency of the tests.  
 “If we had at least one bank which the markets hadn’t
really expected to fail, that would have given the stress tests
more credibility,” said  Lothar Mentel , chief investment officer
at Octopus Investments Ltd. in London, whose team manages more
than 600 million pounds ($926 million). “That hasn’t
happened.”  
 The European tests ignored the majority of banks’ holdings
of sovereign debt. Regulators don’t believe there will be a
national default, European Central Bank Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said July 23. The evaluations took into account
potential losses only on government bonds the banks trade,
rather than those they are holding until maturity, CEBS said.  
 Sovereign Stress  
 Lenders hold about 90 percent of their Greek government
bonds in their banking book and 10 percent in their trading
book, according to a survey by Morgan Stanley. They have to
write down the bonds in their banking book only if there is
serious doubt about a state’s ability to repay in full or make
interest payments.  
 Twenty-four banks would have fallen below the 6 percent
capital threshold had the test included losses on sovereign debt
held in banking books, Citigroup Inc. analysts led by  Ronit Ghose  said in a note to clients. The combined capital deficit of
those banks would have reached 15 billion euros, they said.  
 “The stress tests are a helpful step forward in a number
of areas,”  Huw van Steenis , head of European banks research at
Morgan Stanley in London, said on a conference call yesterday.
“But they are not going to be the game changer that we were
really hoping and in some cases are a missed opportunity.”  
 ‘Work to Do’  
 Had the Tier 1 threshold been 7 percent, 24 of the banks
would have failed, said  Andrew Sheets , Morgan Stanley’s head of
European credit strategy in London, on the conference call. For
some, there is “serious work to do,” he said.  
 Italy’s Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA , Spain’s Banco Pastor
SA and Bankinter SA, and Germany’s  Deutsche Postbank AG  were
among 17 banks that showed a drop in their capital ratio to
between 6 percent and 7 percent under the toughest scenario,
according to figures released by CEBs.  
 Bankinter is sufficiently capitalized, Finance Director
 David Perez Renovales  told Bloomberg Television today. Banco
Pastor’s capital levels are adequate for now, a spokesman for
the bank said. Monte dei Paschi said on July 23 the test’s
adverse scenario shouldn’t be considered as “representative of
the current situation or possible present capital needs.”
Postbank plans to boost reserves with earnings, spokesman
 Joachim Strunk  in Bonn said today.  
 Sufficiently Rigorous  
 The stress tests are rigorous enough to be taken seriously,
Credit Suisse Group AG analysts led by  Daniel Davies  said in a
report. Banks passed because the European industry has raised
220 billion euros in the last 18 months to bolster capital, they
said.  
 The tests will be seen as “broadly successful” if the
funding markets continue their recovery, said  Arturo de Frias , a
London-based analyst at Evolution Securities. The exams are
“much more aimed at restoring confidence of bond investors and
providers of short-term liquidity than for equity investors,”
he said.  
 The cost of borrowing in euros for three months rose to the
highest level in almost a year today. The euro interbank offered
rate, or  Euribor , advanced less than one basis point to 0.889
percent today, the most since July 31, 2009, data from the
European Banking Federation showed. The rate climbed for the
41st consecutive day, the data showed.  
 Restoring Confidence  
 European governments aimed to use their first coordinated
stress tests to reassure investors about the health of financial
institutions after the debt crisis pummeled the bonds of Greece,
Spain and Portugal. Mounting budget deficits in those countries
raised concern that they won’t be able to pay their debts.  
 The U.S. stress tests carried out last year were criticized
at the time for being too soft. Yet the evaluations on 19 banks
helped persuade investors that the financial system was sound,
contributing to a 36 percent rally in the  Standard & Poor’s
Financials Index  in the following seven months.  
 “At the beginning, it was the same in the U.S., with
people saying it’s not too tough,” Bank of Spain Governor
 Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez  told reporters today in Basel,
Switzerland. “But if you have more information that is very
good. The tests have for sure been enough to restore investor
confidence.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew MacAskill  in London at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Joshua Rosner, an analyst at Graham Fisher & Co., talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman about the results of the European Union's stress tests for banks.
     Jean-Claude Juncker, who heads the group of euro-area finance ministers, says the tests have shown a "robust" European banking industry.(Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Christopher Whalen, managing director of Institutional Risk Analytics, discusses the implications of the European Union bank stress tests and the outlook for consolidation in the EU financial industry.
     Whalen speaks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack.” (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
