-- Texas $1.4 Billion Build America Is Biggest in Month as AAA Credits Lure
-- Darrell Preston
-- 2010-07-26T13:52:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/texas-1-4-billion-build-america-is-biggest-in-month-as-aaa-credits-lure.html

          
          
             Texas , the second most-populous U.S.
state, is set to benefit from its top ratings when it borrows
$1.5 billion for roads tomorrow, the week’s largest municipal
bond deal and the biggest Build America issue in a month.  
 The state, through the Texas Transportation Commission, is
selling $1.38 billion as taxable Build America Bonds, debt that
comes with a 35 percent interest-rate subsidy from the federal
government, and $115.6 million of tax-exempt securities for
bridge and highway projects.  
 Investors have been distinguishing between different
quality Build Americas in recent months, said  Chris Mier ,
municipal strategist and managing director with Loop Capital
Markets LLC in Chicago. Spreads above Treasuries for top-rated
municipal issuers have been narrowing compared with borrowers
with lower credit scores.  
 “There’s been a little bit of a break for top-rated
issuers,” Mier said. “For those without the well-known name,
it will be a wider spread than it was two or three months ago.”  
 Top-rated University of Virginia sold $190 million of 30-
year Build America Bonds July 21 priced to yield 4.9 percent,
the lowest on record for that maturity, or a premium of 95 basis
points to longest-dated Treasuries. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  
 The same day, the Sacramento, California, Municipal Utility
District, with the fifth-highest investment grades from Standard
& Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service, sold $250 million 26-
year bonds at a spread of 225 basis points above the benchmark.
The spread on a previous sale by the agency, in May 2009, has
widened 100 basis points in trading since April to 222 basis
points by July 21, according data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Average Yield  
 The average Build America Bond yielded 6.05 percent on July
23, according to a Wells Fargo & Co.  index  that began last
August. Build Americas’ yield  spread above 30-year U.S.
Treasuries  reached a record high of about 207 basis points this
month, up from 142 basis points in early May, Bloomberg data
show. The spread increased in part as Treasury rates fell amid
signs the economy is slowing.  
 “The BABs market has become a little more discerning on
credit quality,” said  Tom Boylen , managing director at BMO
Capital Markets in Chicago. “Everyone is more cognizant of
credit.”  
 Issuers have sold about $122 billion of Build Americas
since they were created as part of last year’s $862 billion
economic-stimulus package. The program expires at year-end.  
 International Buyers  
 The taxable municipal bonds have offered international
buyers higher yields than some corporate bonds, coupled with
lower default risk. Investors in the U.S. and from other
countries “are more comfortable with things they’ve heard of,”
Mier said.  
 “You’ve got a lot of domestic issuers and international
investors with no prior experience in munis,” he said.  
 Yields on top-rated, tax-exempt general obligations that
mature in 10 years averaged  2.86 percent  on July 23 for a third
consecutive day, the lowest in at least nine-and-a-half years,
according to Municipal Market Advisors data since January 2001.
The securities have not had an increase in yields since June 15,
data from Concord, Massachusetts-based MMA show.  
 This week’s total scheduled municipal issuance of $7.9
billion includes about $2.3 billion in Build America debt. Both
figures are the highest since late June, when the  Bay Area Toll
Authority  sold $1.5 billion in Build Americas, the last sale
comparable to the Texas deal.  
 The city of  Columbus , Ohio, has the third-largest scheduled
sale of the week, a $430 million issue that includes the second-
largest Build Americas issue, totaling about $280 million.  
 Tax-Exempts  
 New York City brings to market the week’s largest tax-
exempt offer, $800 million in general obligation bonds to
refinance debt. Colorado’s  Regional Transportation District  has
the week’s second-largest tax-exempt issue, at $404 million. It
plans to use the funds to expand mass-transit services in and
around Denver.  
 Texas, which has no personal income tax, expects to benefit
from its AAA ratings from S&P and Moody’s, said  James Bass ,
chief financial officer, in an e-mail. S&P raised the state’s
rating last year to AAA and earlier this year Moody’s adjusted
its rating to Aaa as part of a companywide recalibration of
ratings to reflect default risk.  
 “We expect a very strong reception,” Bass said. He said
the state is marketing the bonds to investors outside the U.S.,
especially in Europe.  
 Prices for Texas’s general-obligation Build America Bonds
issued in August of last year have risen since March, pushing
down the yield to about 5 percent from 5.5 percent, according to
Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board data.  
 Revenue Bonds  
 The securities being sold this week, through investment
banks led by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , are voter-approved
revenue bonds. The debt is backed by revenue deposited in the
State Highway Fund, including federal transfers, motor-fuel
levies, vehicle-registration fees and other taxes.  
 Texas, unlike many states, so far hasn’t had to make large
budget cuts to balance falling revenue. That may change in the
two-year budget cycle starting next year, when the state is
projecting a deficit as high as $18 billion. The government,
which already has started to cut spending, also has more than
$10 billion in reserves that could be used, Lieutenant Governor
 David Dewhurst  said in an interview in May.  
 “It’s a strong credit in what I perceive to be a strong
state,” said  Douglas Gaylor , New York-based senior municipal
manager with Principal Financial Group, which manages $2.5
billion of tax-exempt debt. “They’ve been more conservative and
haven’t had as dramatic budget problems.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Darrell Preston  in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        