-- Fed's Plosser Says He Doesn't Favor More Stimulus as Economy Is Stronger
-- Michael McKee
-- 2010-07-26T20:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/fed-s-plosser-says-he-doesn-t-favor-more-stimulus-as-economy-is-stronger.html

          
          
             Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said he sees no need now for more
monetary stimulus while noting fundamental strength in the
economy.  
 “I think there is underlying strength there that is still
there,” Plosser said today in an interview with Bloomberg
Television in Washington.  
 Fed officials, taking stock of slower U.S. growth than
forecast, are starting to consider policy options for increasing
monetary stimulus even as they prepare to eventually raise
interest rates from almost zero and shrink a  record  balance
sheet. Options include restarting asset purchases, Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said in congressional testimony last week.  
 “I haven’t changed my forecast very much,” Plosser said.
“I’m waiting for some of the noisiness in the data to sort of
clear up over the course of the rest of the summer and early
into the fall,” he said, referring to recent data on the
economy influenced by the end of the housing tax credit or
temporary hiring for the U.S. census.  
 Bernanke said last week that one option to aid the economy
is to enhance the Fed’s pledge for  low rates . Last year,
Canada’s central bank made a specific time commitment. Another
alternative is to lower the 0.25 percent rate the Fed pays on
the $1 trillion of banks’ excess reserves.  
 “I don’t think there is any role for the Fed at least in
the near term,” Plosser said of calls for further policy
easing. “Of course things could change. The economy could take
a much worse path.”  
 ‘Ammunition’ Available  
 If the economy worsens, Fed policy makers “have ammunition
to act if we want to,” said Plosser, 61, who joined the
Philadelphia Fed as its chief in 2006. “But I would caution
people that the Fed will look at both the costs and benefits of
any action that we undertake,”  
 Fed presidents rotate voting on monetary policy, with
Plosser voting next year.  
 “The Fed has supplied a lot of liquidity to the system
right now,” Plosser said. “We have to proceed very
cautiously.”  
 Reducing the interest rate on excess reserves or purchasing
additional assets could have undesirable consequences, he said.  
 “Lowering the interest rates closer to zero could have
very disruptive effects on the financial markets,” Plosser
said. “If we bought Treasury bills we could un-anchor
expectations of inflation because the public might begin to
think we are going to buy up the public debt.”  
 Renewed Strength  
 Plosser said the U.S. economy may exhibit renewed strength.
“I think the strength was there before the noise came in,”
Plosser said. “I see some clouds on the horizon, if you will,
with some increased risk due particularly to Europe and how that
might play out. But I think as we go through we will see
confidence return.”  
 Growth in U.S. gross domestic product slowed to a 2.7
percent annual pace in the first quarter, compared with a 3
percent estimate issued in May and a 5.6 percent rate in the
last three months of 2009.  
 Sales of U.S. new homes rose in June more than forecast
following an unprecedented collapse the prior month, a signal
the worst of the slump triggered by the end of a government tax
credit is over.  
 Purchases increased 24 percent from May to an annual pace
of 330,000, figures from the Commerce Department showed today in
Washington. The rate was the second-lowest in data going back to
1963 after May’s downwardly revised 267,000 pace.  
 “The consumer will come back,” Plosser said. “Businesses
will begin investing again, they were very aggressive in the
first part of this year.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael McKee  in Washington at 
 mmckee@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia President Charles Plosser talks with Bloomberg's Michael McKee about the U.S. economy and potential Fed actions to stimulate growth. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
