-- Fiat's Serbian Unit to Start Testing New Car Models in Second Half of 2011
-- Gordana Filipovic
-- 2010-07-26T14:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/fiat-s-serbian-unit-to-start-testing-new-car-models-in-second-half-of-2011.html

          
          
             Italy’s  Fiat  SpA will start test
production of new models in  Serbia  in the second half of 2011,
phasing out the Punto, which sells in Serbia and other
neighboring markets, a Serbian  Economy Ministry  official said.  
 The carmaker’s plans to start two new car models at its
unit in the heart of Serbia outraged its workers in Italy, while
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  said he “hoped” the decision
would not hurt domestic manufacturing.  
 Nebojsa Ciric , Serbia’s deputy minister in charge of
economy and state asset sales, said Serbia wouldn’t interfere in
any dispute Fiat had in its home market. Fiat’s decision to
boost its initial investment in Serbia by 100 million euros
($130 million) to 800 million euros was key, he said.  
 “The test series will start next year, probably in the
third quarter,” though no later than the fourth quarter, Ciric
said today in a telephone interview.  
 By then, Fiat will upgrade its production facility in
Kragujevac, central Serbia, to prepare for new cars that are
planned to replace the Punto, the production of which is
currently “just about enough to finance wages,” Ciric said.  
 The plant produced 16,000 Punto cars in 2009 and will
probably build around 20,000 units this year, a quarter of which
will be exported.  
 Belgrade newspaper Novosti reported today that Fiat would
keep on making the Punto car until at least 2012, citing the
local government in the town of Kragujevac. To keep the Punto in
Serbia and make a profit, the plant would have to produce 30,000
units a year. Local government officials declined to comment.  
 No Timeframe  
 Fiat has no definite timeframe and no plans at the moment
to halt production of the Fiat Punto in Serbia, a company
spokesman said today. Fiat has been making the Punto Classic
model, which precedes the Grande Punto, for about two years in
Serbia, from where it also exports the cars to nearby markets,
Fiat said.  
 Together with the government in Belgrade, Fiat set up a
joint venture two years ago, taking a 67 percent stake in it.
Plans for new production stayed frozen in 2009 due to global
recession, prompting the government to subsidize the Zastava
carmaker, which assembles Fiat cars.  
 Fiat paid an initial 98 million euros in founding capital
in December 2009, while the next 100 million-euro instalment is
due in the second half of 2010.  
 Once equipped for new output and fully operational, the
unit in Serbia is planned to produce 200,000 cars a year, mainly
for export markets.  
 The government is striving for export-led growth after more
than a year of economic downturn showed that heavy reliance on
foreign borrowing and foreign direct investment was one of the
country’s main weaknesses.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gordana Filipovic  in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        