-- Fluor Says Project Backlog May Set Record on Demand From Energy Industry
-- Thomas Black
-- 2010-07-26T21:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/fluor-says-project-backlog-may-set-record-on-demand-from-energy-industry.html

          
          
             Fluor Corp. , the largest publicly
traded engineering and construction company in the U.S., may
reach a record backlog of projects this year on energy industry
demand, Chief Operating Officer  David Seaton  said.  
 Mining-related work that included deals in Mongolia and
Chile were part of $9.3 billion in projects won in the second
quarter, Fluor said today as it reported a profit that beat
analysts’ estimates. The total eclipsed the mark of $8.8 billion
from the last three months of 2008.  
 “The real bright spot that I see in the future is oil and
gas,” Seaton said in an interview at Fluor’s headquarters in
Irving, Texas. “We have the potential to break through that
historic level during this year.”  
 Fluor  reached a record $36.5 billion of projects in 2008’s
third quarter when oil soared to more than $140 a barrel,
unleashing a boom in energy construction. Some projects were
canceled as the recession deepened and credit markets froze
later that year during the global financial crisis.  
 The backlog at Fluor slumped to $25.7 billion in the first
quarter, the lowest since mid-2007. The second-quarter total was
$30.2 billion, the company said today.  
 Net income for the quarter fell 7.1 percent to $157
million, or 87 cents a share, compared with 93 cents a year
earlier, Fluor said today. That beat the 71-cent average of 22
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Forecast Raised  
 The company increased the lower range of its full-year
 earnings  forecast to $2.90 to $3.20 a share, from of $2.80 to
$3.20. Sales totaled $5.2 billion, compared with $5.3 billion a
year earlier, Fluor said. That exceeded the average  estimate  of
$4.98 billion, based on 16 analysts surveyed.  
 Fluor  rose $1.30, or 2.7 percent, to $49.15 at 5:20 p.m.
after releasing results following the close of regular New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The  shares  have gained 6.2
percent this year.  
 “We expect Fluor’s prospect list and balance sheet to
remain strong,”  Stewart Scharf , a Standard & Poor’s equity
analyst, wrote in a note to clients as he reiterated his “buy”
 rating  on the stock. “Competitive pressures and more lower-
margin mining projects should impact margins.”  
 Acquisition Targets  
 Fluor is comfortable accumulating cash as it seeks
acquisition targets to complement its construction portfolio,
such as more capabilities for deepwater work, according to
Seaton, 48, who took the COO job in November.  
 “Our mining group basically ran the table,” Seaton said
of the unit’s growth while oil-and-gas work flagged. The large
projects booked in the second quarter probably won’t continue to
flow in, and probably will be followed by smaller jobs such as
work at copper and iron-ore mines, he said.  
 Energy companies will resume building facilities such as
refineries, mostly in Asia and Russia, Seaton said. The projects
also will be smaller than those constructed in the U.S. before
the slump, and will likely be in the range of $200 million, he
said.  
 Fluor has a “huge” project in Iraq in the West Qurna
field, where the company will be the first to build
infrastructure for oil production, Seaton said.  
 “It really puts us as the premier go-to engineering and
construction company for the other companies to use,” Seaton
said.  Exxon Mobil Corp.  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  signed a
contract with Iraq in January to increase daily production at
West Qurna almost tenfold to 2.33 million barrels.  
 Should Fluor’s backlog reach a record, it would do so in
the face of “a very cautious marketplace,” Seaton said.  
 “We’re still going to have a great year at a time when oil
and gas is down from where it was,” he said. “We’re at an
inflection point on oil and gas.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        