-- Ford Asks Buyers to Pay More for Smaller Engine in Explorer
-- Keith Naughton
-- 2010-07-26T20:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/ford-asks-buyers-to-pay-more-for-mileage-than-horsepower-on-next-explorer.html

          
          
             When  Ford Motor Co.  starts selling
its re-engineered Explorer sport-utility vehicle, it will ask
U.S. buyers to do something unusual: Pay more for less.  
 Bucking an automotive tradition of charging extra for more
horsepower, Ford will ask buyers of its redesigned 2011 Explorer
to pay a premium for a small, 4-cylinder engine when the vehicle
goes on sale in December. The Explorer’s standard engine will be
a 3.5-liter V-6 with 290 horsepower, 53 more ponies than the
optional 4-cylinder.  
 Ford began trying to convince consumers they should spend
to save when it unveiled the Explorer at events in New York,
Chicago and other locations today. The smaller engine has
technology Ford said will give the seven-passenger SUV the same
fuel economy as  Toyota Motor Corp.’s  Camry sedan that gets 19
mpg in city driving and 26 mpg on the highway. That’s more than
30 percent better than the 2010 Explorer.  
 “We really want to make a statement that the old baggage
on fuel economy with the Explorer is gone,” Jim Holland, the
Explorer’s chief engineer, said in an interview. “To get great
fuel economy it takes technology, and it’s our view that people
will pay for that.”  
 The second-largest U.S. automaker will be challenged to
command a premium for the more efficient engine because U.S.
gasoline prices have fallen 34 percent from their peak of $4.11
per gallon two years ago, said  Jim Hall , principal of automotive
consulting firm 2953 Analytics in Birmingham, Michigan.  
 “Why would you want to pay more for fuel economy when gas
prices are going down?” Hall said. “People have very short
memories.”  
 Smallest Ever  
 Ford told dealers today that the new Explorer with a V6
engine will start at $28,995, $1,000 less than the base price of
the current model, said Jay Ward, a company spokesman. The XLT
version with a V6 starts at $31,995, while the Limited trim
level with a V6 has a base price of $37,995, Ward said.  
 Ford hasn’t yet said how much extra it will charge for the
4-cylinder, the smallest engine ever to power an Explorer.  
 “It’s going to be a challenge” explaining to Explorer
shoppers why they should pay more for the smaller engine, said
Larry Taylor, the dealer principal at Beau Townsend Ford in
Vandalia, Ohio. “We’re going to have to have a lot of product
knowledge and training so we can make people understand.”  
 Flex Options  
 Ford charges a $3,000 to $6,000 premium on its Flex model
for V6 engines using the same direct-fuel-injection and turbo-
charging technology as the 2.0-liter, 4-cylinder going into the
Explorer, Hall said. The Explorer engine is likely to be less
because it won’t be packaged with all-wheel-drive like on the
Flex, he said.  
 “The market will determine which really is the base
engine,” Hall said. “If the market says, ‘Forget it,’ they may
have to lower the cost of this engine.”  
 The Explorer’s 4-cylinder engine won’t tow as much as the
V6, Ford said. The front-wheel-drive, 4-cylinder version that is
most fuel-efficient will have the least off-road capabilities,
traditionally a key characteristic of the model.  
 Buyers of the Explorer will be willing to make those trade-
offs for better fuel economy, Holland said. Ford said poor gas
mileage is the No. 1 reason shoppers reject the Explorer, which
saw  sales  fall 88 percent during the past decade, from 445,157
in 2000 to 52,190 last year.  
 ‘More Responsible’  
 “The impact of rising gas prices has really stuck with
people,” Holland said. “People now buy more expensive light
bulbs to be more efficient. We’re moving to a point where people
make the choice to be more responsible.”  
 Ford rose 22 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $12.94 at 4:01 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The automaker,
which posted profit of $4.7 billion for the first half, has
risen 29 percent this year.  
 The Explorer’s improved fuel economy will be central to a
marketing campaign that will reach more than 50 million people
through social media such as Facebook, said  Jim Farley , Ford’s
global sales and marketing chief.  
 “Fuel economy is the core truth we have to get at,”
Farley said at a media briefing on the Explorer July 20. Many of
the 140,000 Explorer owners who trade in their SUV annually are
“disappointed and want more on fuel economy.”  
 To improve the Explorer’s mileage, Ford cut its weight by
about 100 pounds (45 kilograms) by switching the SUV from a
heavy pickup-truck frame to the same chassis as the Taurus
sedan. Designers also sculpted the shape in a wind tunnel to
lower wind resistance.  
 Most Fuel-Efficient  
 The Explorer with the 4-cylinder engine will be the most
fuel-efficient mid-sized SUV on the market, according to  Derrick Kuzak , Ford’s product-development chief.  
 In the 1990s, the Explorer was the top-selling utility
vehicle in the U.S. and earned as much as $10,000 per vehicle
for the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker.  
 “As goes the Explorer, to some extent, so goes Ford,”
Farley said. “It’s the backbone of the brand.”  
 Ford expects to sell more of the new model, especially with
optional equipment such as the 4-cylinder engine, Farley said,
while declining to reveal a sales goal.  Analysts  estimate annual
sales for the new Explorer may top 100,000 units.  
 “What’s more important than the number we sell is that
people see the value and that they’re willing to buy the better,
more highly equipped versions,” Farley said. “That’s the key
for us.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The all-new 2011 Ford Explorer sport-utility vehicle will offer a 4-cylinder engine option. Source: Ford Motor Co. via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports on the latest breaking news and top stories in today's Business Briefs. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The interior of the all-new 2011 Ford Explorer. Source: Ford Motor Co. via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
