-- Formosa Petrochemical Shuts Down Unit at Mailiao Oil Refinery After Fire
-- Yu-huay Sun
-- 2010-07-26T10:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/formosa-petrochemical-shuts-down-unit-at-mailiao-oil-refinery-after-fire.html

          
          
             Formosa Petrochemical Corp. ,
Taiwan’s only publicly traded oil refiner, said it has halted
its 540,000 barrel-a-day refinery at Mailiao after an oil leak
triggered a fire at a residual processing unit.  
 The fire broke out at the No. 2 residue desulfurization
unit at 7:58 p.m. local time yesterday, and no-one was injured,
the company said in a stock exchange filing. Formosa aims to
restart two-thirds of the refining capacity within two days,
company spokesman  Lin Keh-yen  said today.  
 “We suspended production at the refinery on safety
grounds,” Lin said by phone from Taipei. “Direct losses” from
the fire is estimated at NT$500 million ($15.6 million), the
company said in a statement on its website.  
 The blaze was the second accident at the refiner’s Mailiao
complex this month. Formosa’s refinery in the township has three
crude distillation units with a combined daily capacity to
process 540,000 barrels. The company operates three ethylene
 plants  with a combined annual capacity of 2.935 million metric
tons. A crude distillation unit heats crude and separates it
into fuel products.  
 Formosa may become a “target” of criticism after two
accidents within a month, said Max Chan, a Taipei-based analyst
at Capital Securities Corp, who has a “‘neutral” rating on the
stock. “Third-quarter sales may be reduced by 20 percent.”  
 Formosa halted its No. 1 ethylene plant, which has an
annual capacity of 700,000 tons, at the Mailiao complex on July
7 after a fire, Lin said earlier this month. Ethylene is a raw
material for plastics, chemicals and synthetic fibers.  
 Shares Fall  
 The refiner’s shares fell 1.7 percent to close at NT$76 in
Taipei trading as of 1:30 p.m. The benchmark Taiex index climbed
0.3 percent.  
 Formosa Plastics Group, the parent of Formosa Petrochemical,
should conduct “a comprehensive inspection” on plants at
Mailiao, said Liu Chien-kuo, an opposition Democratic
Progressive Party lawmaker from the Yunlin county, where Mailiao
is located.  
 Taiwan’s Labor Affairs Council has told Formosa
Petrochemical to halt production at fire-affected plants,
including those connected to the residual processing unit with
pipes, Lin Chin-chi, a director at the council, said by phone
today. Resumption of output will require approval from the
council, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on the story:
 Yu-huay Sun  in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        