-- Former Inco CEO Hand Studying C$100 Million Canada IPO for Nickel Venture
-- Jesse Riseborough
-- 2010-07-26T15:32:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/former-inco-ceo-hand-studying-c-100-million-canada-ipo-for-nickel-venture.html

          
          
             Royal Nickel Corp. , chaired by
former Inco Ltd. Chief Executive Officer  Scott Hand , is studying
a Toronto initial public offering of as much as C$100 million
($97 million) as early as October.  
 “We need to move to the next stage of financing so we’ve
talked to pretty much every banker you could think of in
Toronto,” CEO Tyler Mitchelson, 41, said today in a phone
interview from Toronto. “Our intent is to be prepared and be
ready to go public mid-October.”  
 Royal Nickel, based in Toronto, needs funds to build the
$1.5 billion Dumont nickel mine in Quebec, where output may
start in 2014. The company is also talking to strategic
investors, including major nickel producers in China, to help
fund mine development studies, Mitchelson said.  
 “It will be one of the biggest single nickel mine
operations in the world when it comes on-stream,” Hand, 68, who
was CEO of Inco when it was bought by Brazil’s  Vale SA  for about
C$19.4 billion in 2007, said in a July 23 phone interview. “We
have a lot of people who would like to help us finance the next
stage, whether it be private or public.”  
 The Dumont project was discovered in 1939 and Royal Nickel
is studying production of about 48,000 metric tons of nickel a
year, said Mitchelson, a former executive at Vale SA’s Inco
unit, where he worked for 15 years.  
 The company plans to appoint a banking syndicate to manage
the IPO, seeking C$60 million to C$100 million, as early as next
week, he said, adding a London listing is unlikely.  
 “There’s definitely an appetite from a lot of the
institutional investors in Canada and some of the funds in
Canada that they’d like another mining house to invest in,” he
said. “So we’ve got a lot of support from these guys.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        