-- Four Rules to Remember in the Age of Austerity: Matthew Lynn
-- Matthew Lynn
-- 2010-07-26T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/four-rules-to-remember-in-the-age-of-austerity-commentary-by-matthew-lynn.html

          
          
             One thing has become clear during
the sovereign-debt crisis: Governments everywhere are going to
be cutting their spending savagely over the next five years.  
 They may do it under the direction of the International
Monetary Fund, like Greece. Or voluntarily, like the U.K. and
Germany. Or slowly and reluctantly, like the U.S. One way or
another, it has to happen. You can’t run deficits of 10 percent
of gross domestic product or more forever.  
 But what does that mean for investors?  
 The  U.K. stock market  has already priced in earnings shocks
from companies that have run into trouble because of reduced
government spending. And, in most developed countries, the cuts
are only just starting. We’ll see a lot of corporate-profit
declines across Europe and the U.S. in the next couple of years.  
 To survive that you need to short companies that depend on
government spending; think about the regions that will avoid the
worst of the pain; and focus on businesses that can save the
government some money. Follow those simple rules, and your
portfolio should make it through the years of belt-tightening.  
 There is already plenty of evidence from the U.K. about the
impact that the austerity drive can have on share prices. Cable
& Wireless Worldwide Plc, the telecommunications provider, said
last week that spending cuts by  David Cameron ’s new coalition
government would lower earnings.  Its shares  dropped 17 percent
on the day. Last month, Connaught Plc, which maintains social
housing, told shareholders the same message. Its shares dropped
as much as 41 percent on the day.  
 50 Percent  
 It’s no great surprise that austerity drives will hit a lot
of companies hard. State spending accounts for 30 percent to 50
percent of the economy, depending on which country you look at.
Start hacking away at half of your GDP, and a lot of people will
find life much tougher.  
 So how should you steer your portfolio through the age of
austerity? Here are four principles to keep in mind:  
 One: Keep away from government contractors. In the last
decade, the state has outsourced a lot of its work. There have
been big contracts awarded -- and, as we know, governments are
very bad at getting value for money, so most of those contracts
came with fat profit margins. Likewise, defense companies will
do it tough -- wars are a real luxury when you need to cut
public spending by a quarter. You don’t want to be holding
shares in companies such as defense manufacturer  BAE Systems Plc 
in that kind of environment. All of them are going to suffer.
Clear them out of your portfolio -- then short them.  
 Regional Focus  
 Two: Focus on regions. Government spending is always
concentrated in particular areas, either because they are poor,
or because it is where the governing party’s voters happen to
live. In the U.K., that is Scotland, Wales and the north of
England, the heartland of the Labour Party, which held power for
the last 13 years. But every country has a region of high public
spending. Avoid them, because they will be hit hardest. But
other places such as prosperous London and the south-east of the
country will do fine. Invest in businesses that focus on those
places and you won’t regret it.  
 In the U.K., take a look at  Ocado Group Plc . The online
grocery retailer got a rough ride in its initial public offering
last week. Yet the wealthy shoppers of the south-east of England
who make up its core market are going to get through the
austerity drive better than most people.  
 Cheap New Ways  
 Three: Look for better mousetraps. Governments won’t just
be able to cut their way out of trouble. The deficits are just
too big for that. They will have to innovate as well, finding
new ways of doing the same things more cheaply. The private
sector is much better at that than the public sector. So look
for companies in health care, education or outsourcing that can
come up with new, more-efficient ways of doing things. They will
have plenty of demand for their services.  
 One example.  Capita Group Plc , which provides a criminal-
records service for the U.K. Home Office, is pitching money-
saving ideas to the British government. If they are good, they
can expect an enthusiastic reception.  
 Four: Don’t forget about growth. The historical record
shows that times of austerity are also ones of great
entrepreneurial energy. During the 1930s, new industries such as
consumer electronics and plastics were created. In the turbulent
mid-1970s, the personal-computer industry was born, as companies
such as Microsoft Corp. and Apple Inc. were founded. When times
are hard, a lot of smart people don’t have any choice but to set
up their own business. And they will have to do it on the cheap
as well, which is usually the best way.  
 New Opportunities  
 So don’t be too defensive. Even amid austerity, there will
be some terrific new companies getting started. It is a good
time to be looking for businesses to back.  
 Where should you be looking? How about  Nathaniel Rothschild ’s new mining company, Vallar Plc, which has just
listed its shares in London? The best brand name in global
finances should be able to open a few doors, and resources are a
growth industry.  
 Some of those investments may do well, others badly. But
stick to those four principles and your portfolio should survive
just fine. Ignore them, and you can expect to get burned.  
 ( Matthew Lynn  is a Bloomberg News columnist and the author
of “Bust,” a forthcoming book on the Greek debt crisis. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
