-- GE, Westinghouse Await Nuclear Bill as Singh Set to Face Stormy Parliament
-- Bibhudatta Pradhan
-- 2010-07-26T02:52:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/ge-westinghouse-await-nuclear-bill-as-singh-set-to-face-stormy-parliament.html

          
          
             Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
faces an opposition buoyed by support for a recent nationwide
strike when parliament meets today, promising a rough ride for
legislation such as a bill to enable the entry of U.S. nuclear
power companies.  
 The July 5 shutdown, triggered by an increase in fuel
prices and escalating costs of food, grounded airlines,
paralyzed road transport and shut offices as the main opposition
 Bharatiya Janata Party  and communists, usually rivals, united to
protest a cost of living rising at the fastest pace in Asia.  
 Passage of the  Civil Liability  for Nuclear Damage Bill will
be a key test of Singh’s ability to advance his agenda, which
has wobbled since winning elections last May. The bill aims to
restrict compensation in the event of an accident and will allow
U.S. companies, including General Electric Co., to bid for
contracts.  
 “Opponents may create a situation where it will be a test
of the government’s resolve to move ahead” with the legislation,
said  Mahesh Rangarajan , a New Delhi-based independent political
analyst. Singh, whose ruling alliance is seven seats short of
majority in the lower house, will have to win over smaller
regional parties from outside his coalition.  
 Deadlock over the legislation may add to headwinds that
have already delayed bills to provide food security for the poor,
reserve more seats for women in the legislature, and open the
insurance and retail sectors to greater overseas investment.  
 ‘Stormy’ Session  
 Among 33 bills listed for consideration this session is the
one to reduce the government’s stake in the State Bank of India
to 51 percent and allow the nation’s biggest lender to boost
capital by selling shares. Parliament will sit until Aug. 27.  
 “It will be a stormy session and the government will be
put on the mat because the opposition feels emboldened by the
response to the strike,” Rangarajan said. “They will be united
at least on” the issue of rising prices.  
 The benchmark wholesale price inflation index jumped 10.6
percent in June from the year before, after a 10.2 percent gain
in May. Consumer prices paid by industrial and farm workers in
India are increasing at almost 14 percent annually, the highest
among 17 countries tracked by Bloomberg in Asia-Pacific.  
 “Price rise will be at the forefront of issues we will
raise in parliament,”  Rajiv Pratap Rudy , a BJP spokesman, said
in a phone interview. “We will scream at the government for its
failure to check spiraling prices.”  
 The new found common purpose between left parties and the
Hindu-nationalist BJP is likely to fracture on issues other than
the cost of living, said Satish Misra, a political analyst at
New Delhi-based  Observer Research Foundation .  
 Temporary Unity  
 “Ideological divisions among opposition parties will
provide enough room for ruling coalition to maneuver its way
through” the session, Misra said. “The unity created on price
rise is temporary.”  
 The nuclear liability  bill , which seeks to make nuclear
reactor operators solely responsible and to cap damages, is
being scrutinized by a panel of lawmakers and is likely to
reintroduced in parliament this session. The bill triggered a
storm when it was first presented to lawmakers in May, with the
opposition arguing it will shield American technology suppliers
from compensation claims.  
 Indian opposition to the bill was bolstered June 6 by
public outrage over two-year jail terms awarded to former senior
employees of a local unit of Union Carbide Corp. for their role
the 1984 Bhopal gas tragedy. The sentencing reignited anger over
compensation and punishment in the case.  
 Union Carbide  
 Midland, Michigan-based Dow Chemical Co., the world’s
second-largest chemical maker, acquired Union Carbide in 1999.
Dow says all liabilities were settled in a $470 million out of
court settlement Union Carbide agreed with the Indian government
in 1989.  
 “If the concerns of the people are not addressed or
accommodated in the nuclear liability bill, then there will be
problem,” said S.S. Ahluwalia, a BJP member of the
parliamentary panel scrutinizing the liability bill.  
 Approval of the bill will help nuclear technology suppliers
including Westinghouse Electric Co. and GE Hitachi Nuclear
Energy, controlled by Tokyo-based  Hitachi Ltd.  and Fairfield,
Connecticut-headquartered GE, compete for $175 billion of
expected orders.  
 European nuclear equipment providers, including Paris-based
 Areva SA  and Russia’s Rosatom Corp., are covered by sovereign
immunity because they are fully or partially controlled by
governments. All atomic energy facilities in India are run by
state-owned Nuclear Power Corp.  
 -- With assistance from  Archana Chaudhary  in New Delhi. Editors:
 Mark Williams ,  Sam Nagarajan   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        