-- Genzyme Said to Rebuff Sanofi-Aventis Takeover Approach
-- Elizabeth Lopatto
-- 2010-07-26T20:09:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/genzyme-said-to-rebuff-sanofi-aventis-takeover-approach-genzyme-advances.html

          
          
             Genzyme Corp. , the world’s largest
maker of drugs for rare genetic diseases, rebuffed  Sanofi-
Aventis SA ’s takeover approach last week, two people with
knowledge of the matter said today.  
 Genzyme can command at least $22 billion, or $80 a share,
on the potential for revenue to surge after the company resolves
manufacturing defects depressing sales of existing products and
introduces new medicines, investors and analysts said today.
That is a 48 percent premium over Genzyme’s closing price on
July 22, the day before reports of Sanofi’s interest.  
 Sanofi may send a formal letter to Genzyme detailing its
interest in an acquisition as soon as this week, said a person
with knowledge of the French drugmaker’s plan who declined to be
identified because the process is confidential. Genzyme’s
revenue, $4.5 billion last year, can surge 47 percent to about
$6.6 billion by 2013, said  Geoff Porges , an analyst with Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. Investors will insist on at least $20 billion
in a sale, said  Sven Borho , with OrbiMed Advisors, holder of 2.5
million Genzyme shares.  
 “If two or three companies get involved in bidding, the
$80s are achieved really easily,” Borho said in an interview
today. “There are so few good assets out there, and this is one
of the more promising assets.”  
 Genzyme Shares Surge  
 Genzyme, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, rose 7.8 percent, or
$4.86, to $67.38 at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market composite
trading, following a 15 percent  increas e July 23, after reports
that Paris-based Sanofi had made an overture.  
 Sanofi spokesman  Jean-Marc Podvin  and Genzyme spokesman  Bo Piela  declined to comment today.  
 London-based GlaxoSmithKline Plc recently made a “very
casual” overture to Genzyme, asking the biotechnology company
to keep it in mind if Genzyme considered selling itself, the
Wall Street Journal reported today, without naming the source.
Alex Harrison, a Glaxo spokeswoman, declined to comment. Sanofi
doesn’t expect competing bids, said the person with knowledge of
the French drugmaker’s plan.  
 Sanofi Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  is counting
on acquisitions to help replace  revenue  the company is losing as
its medicines face competition from lower-priced generic drugs.
Sanofi has spent about $17 billion on 25  acquisitions  since
Viehbacher joined the company in 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Sales Revival  
 Genzyme Chief Executive Officer  Henri Termeer  said in a
June 14 interview that the company wasn’t for sale. The company
is focused on fixing manufacturing defects that cut into sales
of its biggest products, Termeer said. He is seeking to revive
the drugmaker after sales slumped 2 percent to $4.5 billion last
year, following a virus contamination at Genzyme’s Allston
Landing factory in Boston.  
 Genzyme has said it will spin off three business units.
Sanofi may have reviewed those businesses and decided to buy the
whole company and restructure it, Porges said.  
 Activist investors including billionaire  Carl C. Icahn  who
controls two board seats, and  Ralph Whitworth  of Relational
Investors, a Genzyme director, will likely push for a sale, he
said. Whitworth declined to comment and Icahn didn’t return a
call for comment.  
 “We would not expect full support for the deal until the
price offered reached the $75 to $85 range,” Porges, based in
New York, said in a research report.  
 It would be surprising if a buyer expected to pay a premium
of less than 25 percent to 30 percent for Genzyme, said  Phil Nadeau , an analyst with Cowen & Co. in New York, in a July 23
report.  
 “Given that Genzyme has activists on its board, frustrated
shareholders, and a management team generally perceived to be on
thin ice, it would be hard for Genzyme to turn down,” Nadeau
said.  
 BNP Paribas SA and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are among the banks
that have agreed to provide financing for a possible acquisition
of Genzyme Corp. by Sanofi-Aventis SA, said two people with
knowledge of the plans.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- Henri Termeer, chief executive officer of Genzyme Corp., talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman about the company’s agreement with billionaire investor Carl Icahn to settle a proxy contest.
     Termeer also discusses the prospects for Genzyme and the biotechnology industry. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
