-- Gift From Fed Stops as Profits Shrink at Banks Led by JPMorgan
-- Dakin Campbell
-- 2010-07-26T23:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/gift-from-fed-stops-as-profits-shrink-at-banks-led-by-jpmorgan.html

          
          
             The Federal Reserve’s policy of
keeping interest rates persistently low, which has helped boost
bank earnings over the last six quarters, is beginning to make
it harder for the biggest U.S. lenders to make money.  
 Firms including  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Bank of America
Corp. , which have benefited from record low costs of funding
 mortgages  and other assets, face a squeeze on their net interest
margins -- the difference between what they pay to borrow money
and what they get for loans and on securities. Analysts say the
margins may have peaked in the first half and that banks will
struggle to replace high-yielding assets as they pay off.  
 The Fed’s near-zero  target rate  for interbank overnight
lending that has buoyed profits for so long will have an
opposite effect in coming quarters, said  Christopher Whalen , a
Federal Reserve Bank of New York analyst in the 1980s and co-
founder of Institutional Risk Analytics in Torrance, California.  
 “That’s the gift from the Fed,” Whalen said of the rate.
“But at the same time, the cash flow on your assets eventually
starts to re-price and match the low-rate environment. The zero-
rate environment is eventually bad for everybody.”  
 Net interest margins fell by 26 basis points to 3.06
percent at New York-based JPMorgan from the first to second
quarters, 17 basis points at  Citigroup Inc.  to 3.15 percent and
16 basis points at Bank of America to 2.77 percent, according to
company reports. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 ‘Massive Issue’  
 The reduced margins, along with lower lending volumes,
translated to a drop in net interest income of $1.02 billion at
JPMorgan, the second-largest U.S. bank by assets and the largest
by market value. Net interest income fell $849 million at  Bank
of America , the biggest lender by assets, and $522 million at
New York-based Citigroup, which is third.  
 “It’s a massive issue for the industry, impacting banks at
different timing,” said  Matt O’Connor , an analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG in New York. “The universal banks -- Bank of America,
Citi and JPMorgan -- are feeling the pressure now and will
continue to feel pressure for the foreseeable future.”  
 Brian Moynihan , 50, chief executive officer of Charlotte,
North Carolina-based Bank of America, told analysts on a July 16
conference call that the “sustained low-rate environment” was
hitting revenue and earnings and will continue to affect
margins. JPMorgan CEO  Jamie Dimon , 54, told analysts the day
before that the bank’s net interest margin will continue
“coming down a bit as we reposition the portfolio.”  
 Wells Fargo  
 Wells Fargo & Co. , the fourth-biggest bank, reported that
net interest margin increased by 11 basis points to 4.38 percent
in the second quarter, which the bank said was the result of
higher-than-expected income from soured mortgage loans.  
 By lowering its target rate to almost zero in 2008, the Fed
helped save many banks from collapse. The move reduced the
industry’s average cost of funding mortgages and other interest-
earning assets to 1.03 percent in the first quarter of this
year, the lowest rate on record according to the  Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. , from 3.58 percent in the third quarter of 2007.  
 While it also depressed the yield banks earn on their
investments and loans to 4.86 percent from 6.93 percent over the
same time period, the net interest margin hit a seven-year high
of 3.83 percent in the first quarter, according to the most
recent FDIC data available.  
 Fed Signals  
 The Fed has signaled that slowing inflation and a sluggish
economy will push any interest-rate increase into 2011. It said
in a June 23 policy statement that “underlying inflation has
trended lower” and repeated a pledge to keep the benchmark
interest rate near zero for “for an extended period.”  
 The language led most economists polled by Bloomberg to
predict the Fed won’t raise rates until the second quarter of
next year. Futures traded on the CME Group Inc. exchange showed
a 37.6 percent likelihood yesterday that the benchmark lending
rate will be raised in April 2011. That likelihood was 55
percent a month ago.  
 “Once you get into this low-rate environment for 12 to 18
to 24 months, somewhere in there assets start re-pricing to the
lower interest-rate environment,” said  Marty Mosby , a Memphis,
Tennessee-based analyst with Guggenheim Partners LLC.  
 Banks, reluctant or unable to lend, are shrinking their
balance sheets. That’s starting to eat into cash flow at the
biggest lenders.  
 ‘No Loan Demand’  
 JPMorgan’s  balance sheet  was reduced by $121.8 billion in
the second quarter to $2.01 trillion, which is also down from a
peak of $2.25 trillion in the third quarter of 2008. Citigroup’s
total assets fell by $64.6 billion in the second quarter to
$1.94 trillion.  Wells Fargo’s total assets , which were up $2.2
billion from the first quarter to $1.23 trillion in the second,
have fallen from a peak of $1.31 trillion in December 2008.  
 “There’s no loan demand, and long-term rates have declined
so much,” Deutsche Bank’s O’Connor said. “So as you look out
over the next few quarters, it’s a potentially very dire
situation for the overall industry.”  
 Loans generate some of the highest yields for banks, said
 Jason Goldberg , an analyst at Barclays Capital in New York.  
 “In an environment where loan growth is tough to come by,
it’s a tough challenge,” Goldberg said in an interview. “When
your highest-yielding asset isn’t there to put on the balance
sheet, it’s tough.”  
 Goldberg said banks are getting squeezed as the yield
curve, which charts the difference between rates on short- and
long-term debt, flattens out. The  spread between yields  on
three-month Treasury bills and 30-year Treasury bonds fell to
387 basis points July 23, down from 471 basis points January 11,
the highest level in at least a decade, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Regional Banks  
 Because most banks tend to fund their long-term investments
such as 30-year mortgages with short-term debt, they benefit
when short-term rates are lower and make less money when short-
and long-term rates come closer together.  
 “Generally, the steeper the curve, the better,” Goldberg
said. “It’s steep by historical standards, but it’s not as
steep as it was earlier this year.”  
 Regional banks won’t start feeling the pain until later
this year or early next year, partly because their reliance on
deposits for funding has insulated them from broader market
shifts, O’Connor and other analysts said. The average rate paid
on checking-account deposits was 0.53 percent on July 13, the
 lowest level  since February 2005, according to Bankrate.com.  
 ‘Hit the Floor’  
 “We’ve hit the floor in deposits, you can’t go any lower,
and your asset yields are declining,” said  Nancy Bush , a bank
analyst and co-founder of NAB Research LLC, an Annandale, New
Jersey-based independent research firm. “So there’s only one
way to go for the margin, and that’s down.”  
 PNC Financial Services Group Inc.  said its cost of deposits
in the second quarter fell to 71 basis points from 81 basis
points in the first quarter and 125 basis points a year ago.
Those lower funding costs won’t be enough to offset the yields
the Pittsburgh-based bank is earning from securities, mortgages
and credit cards, Chief Financial Officer  Richard Johnson  told
analysts on a July 22 conference call.  
 “This downward trend reflects the continuing migration of
the portfolio to lower-risk asset classes, such as U.S. Treasury
and U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities, along with the
impact of the lower-rate environment,” Johnson said. “Yields
on securities will continue to decline as we replace maturities
and prepayments with lower-risk securities.”  
 Johnson said the bank, the sixth-largest by deposits in the
U.S., will generate lower yields and profit margins in the
second half of the year.  
 “When banks can’t find yielding assets and their book is
shrinking, the cash flow on their book is shrinking,” said
Whalen of Institutional Risk Analytics. “Everybody’s starving
to death.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dawn Kopecki  in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com ;
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bank of America Corp. president and chief executive officer Brian T. Moynihan. Photographer: Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Brian Moynihan, chief executive officer of Bank of America Corp., discusses the company's second-quarter profit reported today. 
     The largest U.S. lender said net income dropped to $3.2 billion, or 28 cents a share before preferred dividends, from $3.22 billion, or 33 cents, in the same period a year earlier. Moynihan, speaking from Charlotte, North Carolina, talks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
