-- Global Witness Sues U.K. Government Over `Conflict Minerals' in Congo
-- Michael J. Kavanagh
-- 2010-07-26T14:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/global-witness-sues-u-k-government-over-conflict-minerals-in-congo.html

          
          
             A U.K.-based advocacy group said
it’s suing the British government for failing to recommend that
U.K. companies face United Nations sanctions for buying so-
called “conflict minerals” from  Democratic Republic of Congo .  
 Global Witness  said companies such as  Amalgamated Metals
Corp.  should be subject to UN sanctions after UN reports linked
them to the illicit mineral trade in eastern Congo. Companies or
individuals who buy minerals that benefit illegal armed groups
in Congo may face sanctions under a 2008 UN resolution that was
renewed in 2009.  
 “What we’d like is a fair and clear procedure for listing
companies for sanctions and I think this would benefit companies
as well,” Global Witness’ legal adviser, Seema Joshi, said by
phone yesterday from London. “How it’s operating right now is
very arbitrary.”  
 AMC isn’t buying minerals from the Congo, the London-based
company said today in an e-mailed statement. AMC announced in
September that it would stop purchasing Congolese tin ore though
its subsidiary, Thaisarco, because it couldn’t guarantee the
source of all its minerals. The U.K. government said today it
studies reports of companies trading in “conflict minerals” and
decides on a case-by-case basis whether to recommend them for
sanctions.  
 “The U.K. government expects all British companies
operating in the minerals sector in the DRC to follow high
standards of due diligence,” a spokesman for the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office said today in an e-mailed statement.  
 High Court  
 The Global Witness complaint, which it said it filed at the
High Court in London today, is the latest attempt to force
companies in Congo to monitor their mineral purchases. U.S.
President  Barack Obama  on July 21 signed a “conflict minerals”
amendment in the U.S. financial reform bill requiring all
American companies that buy minerals from Central Africa to
receive certification that their purchases are “DRC conflict
free.”  
 War in Congo killed more than 3 million people between 1998
and 2007, according to  International Rescue Committee  estimates,
mainly due to preventable disease and starvation. Fighting
continues in the mineral-rich east, where armed groups often
support themselves by taxing the trade in natural resources.  
 Congo is Africa’s largest producer of tin ore, according to
the U.S. Geological Survey’s  website , and also has large
deposits of gold, wolframite, and coltan, which are used in
jewelry and electronics.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Kavanagh  in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        