-- Goldman Sachs Relied on Citigroup, Lehman for AIG Protection
-- Hugh Son
-- 2010-07-26T02:04:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/goldman-sachs-relied-on-citigroup-lehman-to-protect-against-aig-failure.html

          
          
               Goldman Sachs Group Inc . documents
show that it depended on banks including  Citigroup Inc . and  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc . for protection against a failure
of  American International Group Inc .  
 Citigroup, which received the biggest government bailout of
any U.S. bank, was Goldman Sachs’s largest provider of credit-
default swaps on AIG as of Sept. 15, 2008, according to
documents released by Senator Charles Grassley. Lehman Brothers,
which declared bankruptcy that same day, is listed as fifth-
biggest. Credit-default swaps act like insurance contracts,
paying the owner in the event of a default.  
 Goldman Sachs, the most profitable securities firm in Wall
Street history, has argued that it didn’t depend on the U.S.
government’s $182.3 billion rescue of AIG because the investment
bank had collateral and credit-default swaps to protect itself.  Joshua Rosner , an analyst at research firm Graham Fisher & Co.
in  New York , said the list of counterparties indicates that
Goldman Sachs may have had difficulty collecting on those swaps.  
 “Clearly Goldman’s calculation was more tied to their
expectation of the political dynamics of forcing moral hazard
than the fundamental realities of the financial strength of
counterparties,” Rosner said. Moral hazard is created when
government bailouts are perceived to reward risky activity.  
 Goldman Sachs’s relationship with AIG has been under
scrutiny since AIG  revealed  in March 2009 that the bank had
received $8.1 billion after the insurer’s 2008 bailout. The
funds made good on credit-default swaps that AIG had provided to
Goldman Sachs on mortgage-linked investments called
collateralized debt obligations.  
 ‘Backdoor Bailout’  
 Lawmakers, including Representative Darrell Issa, the  California  Republican, have called the AIG rescue a “backdoor
bailout” of Goldman Sachs, as well as the other banks that got
100 percent of the money AIG owed them. The government bailout
of AIG meant Goldman Sachs never had to collect on credit
default swaps it bought to cover a default.  
 “The financial institutions from whom we purchased
protection were required to post collateral to settle their net
exposure to us on a daily basis,” Lucas van Praag, a spokesman
for New York-based Goldman Sachs, said yesterday. “A default by
any particular counterparty would not reduce the effectiveness
of a hedge provided by that entity if adequate collateral had
already been posted. This was the case with the protection we
bought, even during the most stressed periods of the fall of
2008.”  
 Bets Against AIG  
 Goldman Sachs, led by Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein , 55, turned over a list of counterparties on those
swaps to the  Congressional Oversight Panel  and Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission, which are reviewing the use of taxpayer
funds in financial bailouts. Grassley, a senator from  Iowa  and
the ranking Republican on the  Senate Finance Committee , released
two documents July 23. He got the records after saying the firm
could be subpoenaed for the information  
 One  list  shows the 148 different credit-default-swap
positions that Goldman Sachs had on AIG, essentially bets on the
insurer’s survival, as of Sept. 15, 2008.  
 The list shows Goldman Sachs stood to collect about $1.7
billion if AIG had gone bankrupt and all of the counterparties
had made good on their promises.  
 “I don’t know anyone who kept hearing Goldman’s claims
that they were hedged to an AIG collapse and didn’t assume that
they had a lot of protection from people who themselves would be
at risk of insolvency,” said Raj Date, executive director for
the New York-based  Cambridge Winter Inc.  center for financial
institutions policy and a former  Deutsche Bank AG  executive.  
 Zurich to Singapore  
 In addition to Citigroup and Lehman Brothers, the top
counterparties included divisions of Zurich-based Credit Suisse
AG and Swiss Reinsurance Co.; New York-based Morgan Stanley and
JPMorgan Chase & Co.; Pacific Investment Management Co. in
Newport Beach, California; and Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank.
The Government of Singapore Investment Corp. would also have
owed Goldman Sachs $20 million.  
 The document shows that one division of Citigroup, the U.S.
bank 18 percent owned by the U.S.  Treasury Department , would
have owed Goldman Sachs $402 million if AIG had defaulted, while
a Lehman Brothers unit would have owed about $175 million. A
London unit of Citigroup would have had a $12.5 million
obligation, according to the documents. Partially offsetting
that would be $700,000 that Citigroup’s global markets division
would have been owed by Goldman Sachs.  
 “There’s a question about Citigroup’s ability to pay
Goldman if AIG failed, given it had major problems,” said Ed Grebeck, CEO of  Stamford , Connecticut-based debt-consulting firm
Tempus Advisors and an instructor on derivatives at New York
University.  
 Hedge Funds, CDOs  
 David Viniar, Goldman Sachs’s chief financial officer, said
in March 2009 that the company had credit-default swap
protection on AIG from “all of the large financial
institutions” inside and outside the U.S.  
 The document shows that Goldman Sachs also would have
depended on payments from an assortment of hedge funds and CDO
managers such as  Alphadyne Asset Management LLC ’s International
Master Fund, which would have owed Goldman Sachs $27.8 million,
and Wicker Park CDO I, Ltd., which would have owed $17.5
million.  
 “Does this undermine Goldman’s claim that it was ‘fully
collateralized and hedged’ with regard to the risk of an AIG
default, and thus demonstrate that Goldman did, in fact, receive
a direct benefit from the government’s assistance to AIG?”
Grassley wrote on his  website .  
 Citigroup spokeswoman Shannon Bell, JPMorgan’s Brian Marchiony,  Morgan Stanley ’s Mark Lake, Credit Suisse’s Duncan King and Deutsche Bank’s Renee Calabro declined to comment.  
 Writedowns Possible  
 The document shows only the “notional” amount of money
Goldman Sachs was owed by its counterparties, Cambridge Winter’s
Date said. The firm is likely to have written down the value of
at least some of the protection, he said.  
 Goldman Sachs “should have been haircutting the valuation
of that protection pretty significantly as the viability of
those firms looked more and more suspect,” Date said.  
 The list also shows companies that would have been owed
money by Goldman Sachs on credit-default swaps if AIG had
defaulted. They include divisions of London-based  HSBC Holdings
Plc , Zurich-based  UBS AG  and hedge funds managed by Och-Ziff
Capital Management Group.  
 A second  document  shows that the contracts Goldman Sachs
had with AIG on collateralized debt obligations, securities made
up of pools of mortgage loans, helped offset similar contracts
the bank had written on the same CDOs with other parties. In
all, the document shows that 32 separate counterparties received
a total of about $14.1 billion on the 45 CDOs that were taken
over by the  Federal Reserve  through the Maiden Lane III
subsidiary created in late 2008.  
 European Banks  
 That includes $9.8 billion described as “mortgage
cashflow” and $4.3 billion in payments to buy the bonds that
had been insured by AIG for Maiden Lane III. Viniar, 55, said in
March 2009 that the firm spent the “vast majority” of $5.6
billion it received to cancel CDS contracts with AIG to buy the
cash bonds from counterparties and deliver them to Maiden Lane.  
 The largest payments on the list were to European banks,
led by Frankfurt-based DZ Bank AG,  Germany ’s biggest cooperative
lender, and Madrid-based  Banco Santander SA . The list also
includes the London branch of Rabobank Nederland NV, Swiss
regional bank Zuercher Kantonalbank, and Brussels-based Dexia
Bank SA.  
 Other firms include the Hospitals of Ontario Pension Plan
and a GSAM Credit CDO Ltd., a collateralized debt obligation
managed by Goldman Sachs Asset Management.  
 Explanation Sought  
 “The majority of these beneficiaries appear to be foreign
entities,” Grassley wrote in a set of questions directed at  Elizabeth Warren , chairman of the Congressional Oversight Panel,
and published on his website. “Can you please explain how
ensuring that these institutions were paid in full, rather than
required to suffer the consequences of the risks that they took,
benefited the U.S. taxpayer?”  
 The list includes only the so-called cash CDOs, or CDOs
that are made up of actual loans or bonds, and doesn’t include
any synthetic CDOs, which contain derivatives on loans or bonds,
that Goldman Sachs insured with AIG.  
 While U.S. government actions may have benefited some non-
U.S. companies, Cambridge Winter’s Date said that it’s also true
that bank bailouts by other countries, including  Switzerland ,
Germany and the U.K., helped U.S. investors.  
 “No one actually knows who’s the beneficiary versus the
biggest payer into this global sovereign backstop on the banking
system,” Date said. “Maybe U.S. taxpayers ended up worse than
others but I don’t know if that’s necessarily true.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in  Washington  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net .
Alec McCabe at +1-212-617-4175 or  amccabe@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Senator Charles Grassley, a Republican from Iowa. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Christine Harper discusses Goldman Sachs Group Inc. documents that show the bank depended on Citigroup Inc. and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. for protection against a failure of American International Group Inc. 
     Harper talks with Jon Erlichman on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
