-- Goldman Sachs `Constructive' on China's Yuan-Denominated Shares After Gain
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-26T04:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/goldman-sachs-remains-constructive-on-china-s-a-shares-after-price-gains.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said it’s
still “fundamentally positive” on China’s yuan-denominated
stocks even after a surge in the  CSI 300 Index , given their
valuations and the emergence of several “catalysts.”  
 The Hong Kong-listed shares of Chinese insurers are a
“convenient, yet fundamentally appealing, way” for foreign
investors to gain access to the A-share market, Goldman Sachs
analysts led by  Kinger Lau  and  Timothy Moe  said in a report.  
 “We stay fundamentally positive on A shares,” the
analysts wrote. “Although we do not expect policy to ease
immediately, we believe any further positive development on this
front can re-rate the market further.”  
 The CSI 300, tracking yuan-denominated shares on the
Shanghai and Shenzhen exchanges, has surged 12 percent since
this year’s low set on July 5, on speculation cooling economic
growth and property-price gains will spur the government to ease
its policy tightening. Chinese stocks are still the worst
performers in Asia this year, with the CSI 300 and the Shanghai
Composite Index both slumping 22 percent.  
 Even after the gains,  A shares  are trading at 13 times
estimated profits with per-share earnings growth of 29 percent
in 2010 and 22 percent in 2011, according to Goldman Sachs
estimates.  
 “The low valuations have already discounted a pessimistic
macro/micro growth scenario and several catalysts are emerging,
including receding concerns over liquidity drain and potential
normalization of investors’ positioning,” the analysts wrote in
today’s report.  
 ‘Stable’ Policies  
 The CSI 300 fell 0.5 percent to 2,778.68 at the 11:30 a.m.
break, snapping a five-day, 6.8 percent rally. The  Shanghai
Composite  lost 0.4 percent following last week’s 6.1 percent
advance.  
 Premier  Wen Jiabao  last week said in comments published by
Xinhua News Agency on a government website that stable policies
should be the main theme in the second half. He also highlighted
the importance of expanding domestic demand, saying that China
would “improve” stimulus measures for boosting consumption.  
 China’s  economic growth  slowed to 10.3 percent in the
second quarter from an 11.9 percent increase in the January to
March period, prompting economists from Morgan Stanley to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. to cut their gross domestic product
forecasts for this year. Data released this month also showed
property prices in 70 Chinese cities fell 0.1 percent in June
from the previous month and banking lending cooled last month.  
 Monetary Easing  
 The recent stock-market gains represent a “tradable
rebound, not yet a reversal,” driven by speculation about an
easing in mortgage policy, lower-than-expected  inflation  and the
completion of stress test for European banks, according to China
International Capital Corp.  
 Still, “with GDP growth of 10.3 percent and lower-than-
expected inflation, property prices showing few signs of giving
back, and labor shortages in some regions, it is difficult to
convincingly argue for a general monetary easing,” CICC
analysts  Hao Hong  and Mei He said in a report today.  
 The Goldman Sachs analysts said they  favored China Pacific
Insurance (Group) Co.  for its “above-peer” new business value
growth potential and  China Life Insurance Co. , the nation’s
largest insurer, for its investments in A shares. China Pacific
has climbed 0.5 percent in Hong Kong trading this year while
China Life has dropped 10 percent.  
 The H shares of insurers have had a “high directional
correlation” and this relationship is likely to remain in the
near term give their holdings of A shares, according to the
analysts. They also said the industry’s “fundamentals remain
strong,” with premiums growing at 34 percent in the first half
and long-term growth prospects looking “promising.”  
 -- Shiyin Chen  in Singapore and  Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai.
Editors:  Linus Chua ,  Allen Wan   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
 Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Steve Bernstein, chief executive officer of Oppenheimer Investments Asia Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about his investment strategy for Asian stocks. 
     Bernstein, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for Chinese banks and initial public offerings. (Excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
