-- Greek Truck Drivers Strike as EU, IMF Begins Loan Inspection in Athens
-- Maria Petrakis
-- 2010-07-26T07:08:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/greek-truck-drivers-strike-as-eu-imf-begins-loan-inspection-in-athens.html

          
          
             Greek truck drivers went on an
indefinite strike today over plans to open up their sector to
new licenses.  
 “We will walk out from Sunday midnight,” Giorgos Tsamos,
the head of the country’s federation of tanker-trucks, told Mega
TV yesterday. “We will take this to the end.”  
 The protest, which centers on government plans to issue new
trucking licenses, may cause shortages of fuel and goods,
particularly on the Greek islands, if the walkout lasts for
days. The changes are part of the requirements  of a 110
billion-euro ($143 billion) loan package as European Union and
International Monetary Fund officials begin checks on Greece’s
progress with the program.  
 Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou , who has cut wages
and pensions and raised taxes to meet conditions to receive the
EU-IMF loans, said earlier this month the government had met the
targets that would secure a second payment of 9 billion euros by
September. The team of officials, which include representatives
from the  European Central Bank , are examining progress up to
June 30.  
 “These goals have been achieved and we have moved a step
further with the passage of the pension reform,”
Papaconstantinou said in an interview with the newspaper Kosmos
tou Ependiti, according to an emailed transcript from the
ministry. “There’s a clear timetable which we will stick to so
that none of the next 12 loan installments are endangered.”  
 Key measures to be completed by the end of the year include
opening up closed professions, which include truckers,
pharmacists and architects, an overhaul of the health system and
the implementation of a restructuring plan for unprofitable
Hellenic Railways Organization SA.  
 The IMF said July 16 that while Greece’s state budget-
reduction program is on track, sectors affecting the general
government balance, such as hospitals and social security funds,
“present clear risks, as do financial pressures in public
enterprises” and require more attention.  
 Greece aims to reduce its deficit from 13.6 percent of
gross domestic product last year to within the EU’s 3 percent
limit in 2014. The Finance Ministry said last week that the
deficit shrank 45 percent in the first half of the year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        