-- IBM Investigated by EU Regulator Over Mainframe Market
-- Katie Hoffmann
-- 2010-07-26T22:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/ibm-probed-by-eu-for-alleged-abuse-of-dominant-mainframe-computer-position.html

          
          
             International Business Machines
Corp. , the world’s biggest provider of computer services, is
being investigated by the European Union over claims it abused
its dominant position in the market for mainframe computers.  
 The probe will review claims IBM linked sales of its
hardware to its software for mainframe computers and that IBM
discriminated against competing sellers of services for the
computers, the Brussels-based  European Commission  said in a
statement today. IBM said the probe was the result of a campaign
by “proxies” of competitors led by  Microsoft Corp.   
 The commission, the antitrust regulator for the 27-nation
EU, said the probe is partially in response to a complaint by T3
Technologies Inc., which Microsoft invested in. T3 makes
software that transfers mainframe functions to servers that can
run Microsoft’s Windows operating system.  
 Even as IBM has shifted away from hardware to focus on
software and services, the mainframe has remained of central
importance to the company. Though IBM gets less than 4 percent
of its revenue directly from selling mainframes, the machines
help generate sales of software, services and financing.
Altogether, the contribution is almost a quarter of IBM’s sales
and 40 percent of its profits, Sanford C. Bernstein analyst  Toni Sacconaghi  wrote in a report today.  
 IBM, based in Armonk, New York, said in a statement that
“there is no merit to the claims being made by Microsoft and
its satellite proxies.”  
 Microsoft Probes  
 “Certain IBM competitors which have been unable to win in
the marketplace through investments in fundamental innovations
now want regulators to create for them a market position that
they have not earned,” IBM said.  
 Frank Shaw , a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, said in an e-mail that the company invests in startup
companies such as T3 to give customers greater choice. The
company isn’t a party to T3’s complaint against IBM, he said.  
 “We do share T3’s belief that there needs to be greater
openness and choice for customers in the mainframe market,”
Shaw said. “Customers tell us that they want greater
interoperability between the mainframe and other platforms.”  
 IBM added 3 cents to $128.41 in New York Stock Exchange
trading. Microsoft rose 29 cents to $26.10 in Nasdaq trading in
New York.  
 The EU has previously punished U.S. technology companies,
including Microsoft, in antitrust cases. Last year, Intel Corp.
was fined a record 1.06 billion euros ($1.37 billion) and
ordered to stop using illegal rebates to thwart competitors.  
 T3  
 Microsoft last year settled an antitrust case with the EU
over its Internet Explorer browser and has previously paid fines
of 1.68 billion euros in EU probes.  
 The case was triggered by T3 and another vendor, Turbo
Hercules, and involves IBM’s alleged tying of mainframe hardware
to its operating system, the commission said.  
 T3, a company that builds mainframe computers and is
mentioned in the CCIA’s report, made a similar complaint against
IBM to the commission. Similar antitrust claims the company made
against IBM in a New York court were dismissed in September.  
 “We’re pleased that the commission has taken this
important step,” said Dave Anderson, a lawyer representing T3.  
 The second probe involves complaints of discriminatory
behavior by IBM against competing suppliers of maintenance
services for the computers.  
 “The commission has concerns that IBM may have engaged in
anti-competitive practices with a view to foreclosing the market
for maintenance services,” the EU today said in a statement,
“in particular by restricting or delaying access to spare parts
for which IBM is the only source.”  
 Newest Mainframe  
 IBM began developing mainframe computers in the 1940s and
1950s and is now among the few companies to offer the systems.
The company announced its newest mainframe, the zEnterprise,
last week. The model, up to 60 percent faster than its
predecessor, uses IBM software to integrate it with smaller
server computers.  
 The company comes out with a new mainframe every two to
three years. After the introduction of the last five models,
sales in its services division, more than half its total
revenue, rose an average of 3 percent, Deutsche Bank analyst
 Chris Whitmore  wrote in a report. Excluding the 2008 update,
which came during a recession, the boost is 9 percent.  
 The mainframe, along with services and software growth,
will help IBM raise total sales this quarter even with a
currency impact, Chief Financial Officer  Mark Loughridge  said
this month. Last week, IBM reported second-quarter sales that
climbed 2 percent to $23.7 billion, with a $500 million hit from
currency.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     IBM began developing mainframes in the 1940s and 1950s and is now among the few companies to offer the systems. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
