-- Tibor at Double Bank Costs Undermines BOJ as Lending Shrinks
-- Masahiro Hidaka
-- 2010-07-26T22:48:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/tibor-at-double-bank-costs-undermines-boj-credit-plan-as-lending-contracts.html

          
          
             Japanese banks are setting benchmark
interest rates at about double what they charge each other for
short-term loans, undermining the central bank’s efforts to spur
the economy.  
 The Tokyo interbank offered rate, which helps determine
costs for about 137 trillion yen ($1.6 trillion) in domestic
lending, fell to a four-year low of 0.38 percent, or 0.38
percentage point, from 0.46 percent at the start of the year.
The three-month unsecured call rate, which represents actual
lending costs between banks, was between 0.125 percent to 0.20
percent in May and June, according Japan’s Association of Call
Loan and Discount Companies.  
 “Citing higher levels for Tibor makes it easier for
commercial banks to explain to their corporate clients why they
can’t lower lending rates,” said  Masaaki Kanno , chief Japan
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo, who worked at the
Bank of Japan for 25 years. “Lenders are reluctant to lower
Tibor because they want to protect profits.”  
 The Bank of Japan has flooded the financial system with
cash and kept its benchmark interest near zero for more than two
years to bring the economy out of its worst postwar recession.
Under pressure from the government, the central bank unveiled a
credit program in December that it doubled to 20 trillion yen
($228 billion) in March. Last month, Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa 
and his policy board announced details of a 3 trillion yen
program aimed at encouraging lending to businesses.  
 Slowing Growth  
 Data over the past month show the recovery may be slowing.
Export growth and  industrial production  moderated, while the
 jobless rate  climbed to a five-month high and  consumer prices 
continued falling. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg estimate
Japan’s economy grew at a 1.7 percent annual pace in the second
quarter, down from 5 percent in the first.  
 Shirakawa’s efforts to increase funds in the financial
system have failed to jumpstart lending as companies avoid debt
and hoard cash. Bank loans declined for a sixth-straight month
in June, while corporations accumulated a record amount of cash
in the second quarter, according to central bank data.  
 Haruyuki Toyama , director-general at the Financial Markets
Department at the Bank of Japan, said on July 5 that Tibor is
deviating “substantially” from appropriate levels, Reuters
reported.  
 At the same time, the BOJ has said Japanese banks aren’t
earning enough. Return on common equity for the 83-member Topix
Banks Index is 3.85 percent on average, compared with 7 percent
for the MSCI World/Financials Index.  
 Libor Gap  
 Japanese bank profitability remains far below that of U.S.
and European banks “mainly due to low interest margins,” the
BOJ said in its March report on the financial system. “It’s
important for Japan’s banks to continue efforts to secure stable
profits.”  
 The Japanese Bankers Association replaced two Japanese
lenders with  Citigroup Inc.  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
on April 1 in its pool of 17 companies it uses to calculate
Tibor. The association has been publishing a daily rate since
1995, according to its website.  
 The association compiles rates from reference banks and
can’t judge how Tibor may vary from actual rates, according to a
spokesman for the group who would not provide a name for
publication.  
 ‘Insulated Rate’  
 Three-month Tibor has been higher than the London interbank
offered rate, or Libor, for yen loans since January 2009,
peaking at a 23 basis point gap in November.  
 In a “pure market,” traders could borrow yen in London
and lend in Tokyo at the higher rate, making profits and driving
the rates toward equality, said JPMorgan’s Kanno.  
 “In reality, however, the Tibor market doesn’t work that
way,” he said. “In this sense, Tibor is a very localized,
insulated rate.”  
 Gaps between the two benchmark rates are partly due to how
they are calculated, said  Sean G. Keane , managing director of
Triple T Consulting in Singapore. Libor is supposed to be the
rate at which banks lend to each other, whereas the submissions
that determine Tibor are what member banks deem to be prevailing
rates in the market, he said.  
 “You can set a rate quite different from where you
actually lend,” said Keane, the former head of regional short-
term rates for Credit Suisse Group AG. “It’s actually hard to
prove how banks are setting their Tibor rate.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 Yseki5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Tibor at Double Bank Costs Undermines BOJ  
                       
                         
                           Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Masaaki Shirakawa, governor of the Bank of Japan, speaks during a news conference at the central bank's headquarters. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Masaaki Shirakawa, governor of the Bank of Japan, speaks during a news conference at the central bank's headquarters. Photographer: Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
