-- Lions Gate Conspired to Thwart Hostile Bid, Carl Icahn Tells Canada Court
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2010-10-09T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/icahn-sues-lions-gate-in-new-york-over-swap-he-calls-a-sham-transaction-.html
Carl Icahn , the billionaire investor
attempting to take control of  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. ,
told a Canadian court that the independent film studio conspired
with several large shareholders to thwart his bid.  Lions Gate Vice Chairman  Michael Burns  worked with
investors  Mark Rachesky  and Kornitzer Capital Management Inc. to
dilute Icahn’s stake in a July transaction, his lawyers argued
in filings to the British Columbia Supreme Court ahead of an
Oct. 12 hearing, citing e-mails from Burns. His argument ignores
much of the evidence, Lions Gate said in its filings.  “The purpose of the scheme devised by Burns and Rachesky,
if it came to fruition as it did, was to significantly dilute
the shareholding interest of Mr. Icahn,” according to the
filing. The aim was “to eliminate any realistic ability to
achieve his stated goal to win a forthcoming proxy contest to
replace the Lions Gate board.”  Icahn is trying to reverse a debt-for-equity swap that
hinders his hostile bid for the studio by putting more shares in
the hands of opponents. Icahn, 74, contends in documents filed
with the court that Lions Gate executives and investors executed
the deal at a price below what Icahn was offering at the time.  Icahn’s argument ignores the bulk of the evidence and the
transactions’ beneficial effects for the company, Lions Gate
said in its own filings. Moody’s cited the deal in raising its
outlook on the Vancouver-based company’s debt to positive.  Stake Increased  Rachesky, 51, increased his stake when one of his funds
bought $100 million of convertible notes from Kornitzer Capital
Management, then exchanged debt for stock. The swap boosted his
stake to 28.9 percent, the second largest after Icahn’s 33
percent.  Icahn is offering $7.50 a share for Lions Gate stock he
doesn’t own. He was offering $7 when his stake was diluted. The
increased tender, made on Aug. 31, is scheduled to run through
Oct. 22.  Icahn inferred in a statement at the time that Rachesky
paid $6.20 a share in the swap.  “Given its recent decision to issue shares to an insider
at $6.20 per share without conducting a market check, we would
normally expect that the board must recommend that shareholders
accept our offer of $7.50 per share,” Icahn said in the Aug. 31
statement.  Kornitzer, who didn’t own the debt personally, said in an
interview that selling it was in the best interest of his
clients.  “It had nothing to do with Mr. Icahn,” Kornitzer said.
“I made my clients money and I got out.”  E-Mails Questioned  Rachesky didn’t return a phone call seeking comment.  Lions Gate, run from Santa Monica, California,  rose 
13 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $7.46 in New York Stock Exchange
composite  trading  yesterday. The shares have gained 28 percent
this year.  The transactions were expedited and approved by the board
in a July 20 meeting after Lions Gate amended insider trading
policies and its code of ethics, Icahn says in the court filing.
He cites so-called “PIN” messages between Burns and Rachesky.  “Burns and Rachesky plotted throughout the month of July
2010 using surreptitious ‘PIN’ messages that would not show up
in their e-mail boxes,” Icahn said.  The e-mails are irrelevant to the board’s decision, Lions
Gate said in its filings to the court. Icahn’s filings ignore
the bulk of the evidence, the company said.  “Icahn rests his argument nearly entirely on a selection
of PIN messages and e-mails, almost exclusively between Michael
Burns and Mark Rachesky,” Lions Gate said. “They show only one
only very thin slice of the facts.  The e-mails “are simply irrelevant to the purpose of the
board in considering and approving the note exchange, and to the
beneficial corporate effect that the July 20 transactions were
desired to and did have,” Lions Gate said.  Lions Gate spokesman  Peter Wilkes  said the studio had no
comment beyond the documents.  The court has scheduled three days of hearings starting on
Oct. 12.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 