-- Junk's Best Rally Since March Entices Borrowers: Credit Markets
-- Bryan Keogh
-- 2010-07-27T16:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/high-yield-debt-s-best-rally-since-march-entices-borrowers-credit-markets.html

          
          
             High-yield, high-risk bonds are
rallying the most in four months on speculation defaults among
the neediest borrowers will diminish as profits exceed
forecasts.  
 Returns of 2.99 percent this month are prompting a surge in
U.S. speculative-grade offerings with  Advanced Micro Devices
Inc. , the second-largest maker of microprocessors, and  Vantage
Drilling Co.  leading $12.5 billion of July issuance, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Junk bonds returned 1.3 percent
last month after losing 3.52 percent in May, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  
 The economy is showing signs of strengthening with more
than 83 percent of companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
exceeding the average analyst profit estimate this quarter. The
U.S. speculative-grade default rate will decline to 2.7 percent
by the end of the year, from 6.3 percent at the end of the
second quarter, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  
 “As long as the economy is growing even slowly, that’s a
very good environment for high yield,” said  Peter Ehret , who
helps manage $580 billion at Invesco Ltd. in Houston. “In our
asset class, we don’t really need robust growth, we just need
good enough growth.”  
 Bonds of NXP BV, the Eindhoven, Netherlands-based chipmaker
that sold $1 billion of eight-year notes on July 13, are the
best-performing bonds this month among the lowest-ranked tier of
debt, with a 14.2 percent return, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s U.S. High Yield, CCC and Lower Rated index.  
 Relative Yields  
 Bonds at the CCC level and below are returning 3.51
percent, after lagging behind the top-rated high-yield index
since the end of April, the index data show. Overall, U.S. high-
yield bonds, rated below Baa3 by Moody’s and lower than BBB- by
S&P, returned 3.1 percent in March.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own corporate bonds rather than government debt fell 2
basis points yesterday to 181 basis points, or 1.81 percentage
points, the lowest since May 19. Yields rose to 3.853 percent
from 3.851 percent on July 23.  
 The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. and Europe declined, remaining at the lowest since May 13.
The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or
speculate on creditworthiness, fell 1.08 basis points to 101.925
basis points as of 12:22 p.m. in New York, according to Markit
Group Ltd. In London, the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of swaps on
125 companies with investment-grade ratings dropped 1.105 basis
point to 103.77.  
 AT&T Offering  
 Both indexes typically decline as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  
 AT&T Inc ., the largest U.S. phone company, plans to sell
debt in a benchmark offering as soon as today in its first
dollar-denominated issue since January 2009. Proceeds from the
sale of five-year fixed-rate global notes will be used for
general corporate purposes, according to a person familiar with
the transaction, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set. A benchmark sale is typically at least $500 million.
AT&T is based in Dallas.  
 Junk Returns  
 Returns this month for the lowest-ranked U.S. high-yield
debt compare with a gain of 2.78 percent for speculative-grade
bonds in the BB tier, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data.  
 In June, the BB debt returned 1.63 percent compared with
0.69 percent for CCC and lower, according to the indexes. That
followed a loss in May of 2.86 percent for the higher-ranked
bonds versus a decline of 5.71 percent for the bottom group.  
 “As long as we continue to have a pretty decent tone to
the market, the higher-yielding stuff is going to do better,”
said  Richard Inzunza , who helps manage $280 billion of fixed-
income assets at Northern Trust Global Investments in Chicago.
“The yields are going to get low enough on the better-quality
debt that it’s going to force high-yield buyers to move down in
credit quality.”  
 Profits of S&P 500 companies may rise 35 percent in 2010
and 17 percent in 2011, according to forecasts tracked by
Bloomberg.  
 High-yield bond funds attracted inflows of $948 million in
the week ended July 21, following $1.1 billion in the previous
period, according to EPFR Global, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based research firm.  
 Vantage Bonds  
 Vantage Drilling, the Houston-based offshore driller, sold
$1 billion of five-year senior secured notes, Bloomberg data
show. The debt was priced at 96.361 cents on the dollar and
yields 12.5 percent, the data show.  
 Sunnyvale, California-based AMD’s sale of $500 million of
10-year, 7.75 percent notes led $1.6 billion of high-yield bond
sales in the U.S. yesterday, Bloomberg data show. U.S. companies
issued $5.18 billion of the debt last week, the most since the
period ended April 30.  
 “Investors are looking at the 7 to 8 percent yields on
offer from high-yield issuers and seeing the large pick-up
compared to investment-grade debt or government bonds,” said
 Andrew Sheets , Morgan Stanley’s head of European credit strategy
in London. “There’s a strong incentive for high-yield companies
to keep chipping away at the wall of refinancing and taking
advantage of investors’ demand for higher returns.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
 Bryan Keogh  in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        