-- Indian Oil Declines in Mumbai Trading After Unexpected First-Quarter Loss
-- Rakteem Katakey
-- 2010-07-26T12:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/indian-oil-declines-in-mumbai-trading-after-unexpected-first-quarter-loss.html

          
          
             Indian Oil Corp. , the nation’s
biggest state-run refiner, declined in Mumbai after reporting an
unexpected first-quarter loss, the first in seven quarters.  
 The  shares  slipped 2.3 percent, the most since July 15, to
364.65 rupees at close of trading in Mumbai. The stock has
increased 19.2 percent this year compared with a 3.2 percent
gain in the benchmark  Sensitive Index  of the Bombay Stock
Exchange.  
 Indian Oil had a loss of 33.9 billion rupees ($723 million)
compared with a profit of 36.8 billion rupees a year earlier
after the government failed to compensate it for selling fuel at
a discount, according to a July 24 statement to the Bombay Stock
Exchange. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg predicted a profit of
3.7 billion rupees, according to an average of 11  estimates . Net
sales increased 23 percent to 712.8 billion rupees.  
 “There is lack of visibility in their earnings as no one
is clear how the government will compensate them for fuel
sales,” said  Vinay Nair , a Mumbai-based analyst at Khandwala
Securities Ltd., who advises investors to “reduce” the stock.
“This is going to result in analysts downgrading the stocks of
state refiners.”  
 India asks state-run refiners to sell diesel and cooking
fuels below cost to curb  inflation  in the world’s third-fastest
growing major economy. Indian Oil lost 73.4 billion rupees on
fuel sales in the first quarter, according to the statement.  
 Hindustan Petroleum Corp. fell 1.3 percent after Credit
Suisse analyst  Sanjay Mookim  downgraded it to “underperform”
from “neutral” and the company reported an 18.8 billion rupee
loss in the three months ended June 30. Bharat Petroleum Corp.,
the second-biggest state refiner, declined 1.2 percent after BNP
Paribas analysts  Amit Shah  and  Sriram Ramesh  rated it “reduce”
in a new coverage.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        