-- India Needs Monetary Steps to Cool Inflation, Central Bank Says
-- Kartik Goyal
-- 2010-07-26T18:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/india-needs-tight-monetary-policy-central-bank-says-before-rate-decision.html

          
          
             India needs tighter monetary policy
to cool inflation, the central bank said, signaling the
possibility of an interest-rate increase today.  
 “For containing the inflation persistence and anchoring
inflation expectations, anti-inflationary monetary policy
actions become a necessity,” the Reserve Bank of India said in
a report yesterday before Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao ’s rate
decision at 11:30 a.m. in Mumbai today.  
 India’s key wholesale-price inflation rate has stayed above
10 percent since February and the opposition plans to attack
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government in parliament over
the issue. Prices may rise further after Singh on June 25
allowed state-run refiners, including  Indian Oil Corp. , to raise
fuel costs.  
 “An increase in interest rates today is a done deal,”
said  Dharmakirti Joshi , chief economist at Mumbai-based Crisil
Ltd., the Indian unit of Standard & Poor’s. “High inflation
persisting for many months will trigger political protests.”  
 The Reserve Bank will probably raise its  reverse-repurchase
rate  by a quarter-percentage point to 4.25 percent, all 20
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey showed. It will raise the
 repurchase rate  to 5.75 percent from 5.5 percent, according to
all but one analyst, who expects it to be kept unchanged.  
 Subbarao has increased the central bank’s benchmark rates
three times since mid-March by a quarter-point each.  
 Stocks, Bonds  
 The yield on the 10-year Indian government bond slid one
basis point to 7.67 percent at the 5:30 p.m. close in Mumbai
yesterday and the rupee fell 0.2 percent to 47.05 against the
dollar. The Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  dropped 0.6
percent.  
 The wholesale-price  inflation rate  rose 10.55 percent in
June after climbing 11.23 percent in April, a 19-month a high,
according to government data.  
 “Inflation will dominate house proceedings and we will
seek an explanation from the government,” said S.S. Ahluwalia,
a lawmaker from the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party.  
 Inflation may average 8.6 percent in the year ending March
31, according to forecasts that the central bank compiled from
agencies including the International Monetary Fund and the Asian
Development Bank. The survey in April projected an average
inflation rate of 7 percent.  
 Faster Growth  
 The economy is likely to expand 8.4 percent in the current
financial year, the survey showed, compared with an 8.2 percent
estimate three months ago.  
 “With receding concerns relating to the recovery and given
the emerging risks of generalized inflation, monetary policy
measures have to continue the calibrated normalization
process,” the RBI said.  
 The  manufactured -price inflation rate, the RBI’s gauge for
consumer demand, accelerated to 7.3 percent in June, from near
zero in November, and “is above the comfort level,” the
central bank said in its report.  
 “Pressure is mounting on the RBI to raise rates,”
 Jahangir Aziz , chief India economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
Mumbai, said before the report. “Inflation is the biggest risk
that policy makers need to be worried about.”  
 One of the elements stoking inflation is fuel prices. The
government permitted state-run refiners to raise gasoline and
diesel costs to cut its subsidy bill.  
 The finance ministry estimates the move will boost the
inflation rate by about a percentage point.  
 Moody’s Investors Service yesterday said that the fuel-
price decision will help the government cut its budget deficit.
Moody’s raised India’s local-currency debt rating by a level to
Ba1, the highest non-investment category.  
 “The monetary unwinding that started in October 2009
should continue till inflation expectations are firmly anchored
and inflation is brought down,” the RBI said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Duvvuri Subbarao, governor of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Photographer: Adeel Halim/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Indranil Pan, chief economist at Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Mark Barton about the outlook for Reserve Bank of India monetary policy.
     India needs tighter monetary policy to cool inflation, the central bank said, signaling the possibility of an interest-rate increase today. Pan, speaking from Mumbai, also discusses the government's decision to allow state-run refiners to raise gasoline and diesel costs in a bid to cut its subsidies bill. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
