-- Monsoon Gathers Pace, Cuts Rain Deficit, Aids Rice, Cotton, Soybean Sowing
-- Thomas Kutty Abraham
-- 2010-07-26T15:41:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/india-s-monsoonal-rainfall-is-9-below-normal-as-of-july-25-bureau-says.html

          
          
             India’s monsoon , the main source of
irrigation for the nation’s 235 million farmers, gained momentum
over the weekend, paring the seasonal rainfall deficiency and
aiding the planting of rice, cotton and soybean crops.  
 Heavy falls over most of the country in the past three days
cut the  deficit  to 7 percent as of today from as high as 16
percent in June, and the shortfall may narrow to 4 to 5 percent
by the end of the month as rains continue this week, said  Ajit Tyagi , director general of the India Meteorological Department.  
 Increased precipitation may help the world’s second-biggest
producer of rice, wheat and sugar lift grain output 6 percent to
230 million metric tons in the year to March 31, Nomura Holdings
Inc. said last week. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is betting on
a rebound in agriculture after a drought last year drove up food
costs and forced record imports of sugar, edible oils and pulses.  
 “Food supply is certain to improve with a good monsoon and
that is comforting for policymakers,”  Dharmakirti Joshi , chief
economist with Crisil Ltd., a unit of Standard & Poor’s, said by
phone from Mumbai. “As July is the most important month in the
monsoon season, a recovery is good for sowing and inflation.”  
 India’s food inflation rate has stayed above 10 percent for
a 14th straight month, increasing pressure on the central bank
to raise interest rates. The Reserve Bank of India will probably
raise its reverse repurchase rate tomorrow by a quarter-point to
4.25 percent, all 20 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey showed.
It would be the fourth increase in the rate since March.  
 Soybeans Tumble  
 Sugar, soybean, corn and soybean oil prices fell in Mumbai
on expectation of bigger harvests. Local sugar prices may drop
in the 2010-2011 season because of higher output,  Vivek Saraogi ,
managing director of Balrampur Chini Mills Ltd., India’s second-
biggest producer, said on a conference call today.  
 “Most farm commodities are down because of good rain,”
said  Veeresh Hiremath , an analyst with Karvy Comtrade Ltd. “The
good spell has erased any concerns of yield losses.”  
 August-delivery soybeans fell as much as 3 percent to 2,011
rupees per 100 kilograms on the National Commodity & Derivatives
Exchange Ltd. Soybean oil lost as much as 1.4 percent to 476.35
rupees per 10 kilograms and corn for August delivery tumbled as
much as 1.9 percent to 1,111 rupees per 100 kilograms.  
 Sugar prices at Vashi, the biggest wholesale market for the
commodity, dropped 0.8 percent to 2,815 rupees per 100 kilograms.
The price reached a record 4,050 rupees in January.  
 Wettest Month  
 July is the wettest month in the June-to-September season,
accounting for third of the total showers. Farmers sowed paddy
in 16.97 million hectares (42 million acres) as of July 22, 7.6
percent more from a year ago, and cotton to 9.5 million hectares,
up from 8.06 million hectares, the farm ministry said on July 23.
Oilseeds were sown on 12.9 million hectares, up 4 percent.  
 “The performance of the monsoon has been overall good for
sowing this year,” weather bureau’s Tyagi said. “Rains may be
better in the next two months because of La Nina and that augurs
well for agriculture.”  
 La Nina causes wetter-than-normal conditions in Asia and
drier weather in the Americas.  
 India received 381.6 millimeters (15 inches) of rainfall in
the June 1-July 26 period, compared with the 50-year average of
408.5 millimeters.  Rains were 5 percent below normal  in the
northwest region, the main grower of wheat, rice and sugar cane,
and 4 percent below average in the central provinces, the top
producer of soybeans, the weather office said.  
 Most parts of the country’s cane, rice, cotton and oilseed
areas will get widespread rain in three to four days, Tyagi said.  
 Rainfall may be 102 percent of the 50-year average for the
season, helped by La Nina, the forecaster said last month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        