-- Lion Capital Agrees to Buy Picard From BC Partners for About $1.9 Billion
-- Gavin Finch
-- 2010-07-26T15:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/lion-capital-agrees-to-buy-picard-from-bc-partners-for-about-1-9-billion.html

          
          
             Lion Capital LLP, the owner of
Weetabix and Kettle Chips, agreed to buy Picard Surgeles from BC
Partners Ltd., becoming the French frozen food retailer’s third
private-equity owner in 10 years.  
 The takeover values Picard at about 1.5 billion euros
($1.94 billion) including debt, according to two people with
knowledge of the talks, who declined to be identified because
the firms haven’t disclosed the terms. Private equity funds
Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC in New York, CVC Capital Partners
Ltd., Cinven Ltd. and Paris-based Eurazeo had all considered
making offers, people with knowledge of the sale said in June.  
 Private equity executives are resuming purchases after the
credit crisis halted dealmaking. The firms have announced $70.1
billion of takeovers this year, 89 percent more than in the same
period in 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “Despite a hard consumer environment in 2009, Picard
continued to gain market share and has further significant
growth opportunities in France and in Europe,” André François-
Poncet, managing partner of BC Partners, said in the statement.
“We trust that Lion Capital will be a good partner for Picard
in the future.”  
 BC, the London-based manager of a 5.8 billion-euro
leveraged buyout fund, bought Picard in 2004 for 1.3 billion
euros from Candover Partners Ltd., which had in turn acquired it
from French retailer Carrefour SA in 2001. Picard, based in
Fontainebleau, has 813 shops in France and makes frozen food
under its own brand.  
 The takeover should be completed in the fourth quarter,
subject to approval by European competition authorities, London-
based Lion Capital said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        