-- Iran Targets $46 Billion in Refinery Investments, Deputy Oil Minister Says
-- Ladane Nasseri
-- 2010-07-26T07:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/iran-targets-46-billion-in-refinery-investments-deputy-oil-minister-says.html

          
          
             Iran needs to invest about $46
billion to upgrade its nine refineries and build seven new ones,
Deputy Oil Minister Alireza Zeighami said.  
 More than half of this amount, or $26 billion, will go
toward the planned construction of new refineries, for which
Iran has allocated about $8.5 billion, Zeighami said, according
to a report published yesterday on  Shana , the Oil Ministry’s
news website.  
 Iran is the second-largest oil producer in the Middle East
after Saudi Arabia. It relies on imports for as much as 40
percent of its gasoline because it lacks adequate refining
capacity to meet domestic demand.  
 Iran has been subjected to four rounds of United Nations
sanctions over its nuclear program. President  Barack Obama 
expanded U.S. sanctions on July 1 to target Iranian gasoline
imports and banking transactions.  
 Iran needs to spend $6.3 billion to maintain production
capacity at existing refineries and has already invested about
one-third of this amount, Zeighami said.  
 The Persian Gulf country aims also to spend $11.5 billion
to optimize production at its five refineries in Tehran, Lavan,
Abadan, Arak and Isfahan. The government has already invested
about $4 billion for this purpose, Shana cited Zeighami as
saying.  
 Iran wants to spend an additional $2 billion on facilities
specifically for making gasoline, of which it has invested some
$1.3 billion so far, the deputy minister said.  
 The government plans to import up to 4 million liters (1.1
million gallons) of diesel oil to increase fuel reserves in the
country’s power plants, a separate report by the state-run Mehr
news agency quoted Zeighami as saying. The report gave no
further details.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        