-- Iran Delays Cuts to Energy, Consumer Goods Subsidies, State TV Reports
-- Ladane Nasseri
-- 2010-07-26T11:11:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/iran-delays-cuts-to-energy-consumer-goods-subsidies-state-tv-reports.html

          
          
             Iran’s government will cut subsidies
for fuel and basic consumer goods in the second half of the new
Iranian year that started on March 21, state television
reported, citing Welfare Minister  Sadegh Mahsouli .  
 The government had announced plans to slash subsidies and
replace them with targeted grants for the poor, starting this
summer. On May 13, President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said the
measure would go into effect in September. Mahsouli didn’t give
reasons for the delay.  
 The plan, which involves phasing out subsidies over five
years, comes at a time of growing economic pressure on Iran. The
Persian Gulf country is under four sets of United Nations
sanctions over its nuclear program. The U.S. on July 1 passed
additional sanctions targeting Iranian fuel importers and banks,
while European Union governments are also preparing to impose
their own punitive measures.  
 Subsidies have been a tenet of the Islamic establishment
since it took power in 1979 and accounted for 27 percent of
Iran’s economy in 2007, with energy consuming the largest share.
Several Iranian lawmakers and analysts have warned that cutting
back subsidies may encourage inflation and reduce growth.  
 “Subsidy reforms can be carried out when the economy is
booming,” parliamentary member Hamid-Reza Fuladgar said in May.
“When the country is faced with deep recession, it will
undoubtedly harm the economy.”  
 Nuclear Program  
 The U.S. and its allies have been tightening restrictions
on Iran, which they accuse of seeking to develop atomic weapons
under cover of its nuclear program, an allegation Iran rejects.  
 President  Barack Obama  on July 1 signed legislation that
punishes foreign suppliers of Iran’s gasoline and blocks access
to the American financial system for banks that do business with
the country.  
 European Union governments are also set to impose their own
punitive measures, which include a ban on investing or selling
equipment to Iran’s energy industries as well as restrictions on
export-credit guarantees and insurance.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        