-- Universities Fail to Report Taxable Income, IRS Says
-- Michael McDonald
-- 2010-07-26T20:44:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/irs-survey-finds-some-nonprofit-universities-fail-to-report-taxable-income.html

          
          
             Nonprofit colleges and universities
may be failing to report the full extent of their taxable income
to the Internal Revenue Service, according to Lois Lerner, the
agency’s director of exempt organizations.  
 The IRS  found  in a survey sent to 400 schools in October
2008 that about a third of the respondents aren’t filing forms
detailing their taxable income even though many operate
businesses unrelated to teaching and research. The survey led to
the audit of Harvard University and more than 30 other colleges.  
 Those schools that do file never pay taxes because they
claim losses that wipe out any profits, Lerner said the survey
found.  
 “We’re going to be looking at that in the audit to see how
colleges and universities are allocating gains and losses,”
Lerner said yesterday on a panel at the  National Association of
College and University Business Officers  annual meeting in San
Francisco.  
 The IRS released an interim report in May based on the
responses from 344 institutions to the survey, which sought data
on endowments and compensation in addition to income from
unrelated businesses. The agency is also reviewing 13 schools
that failed to respond.  
 No Forms Filed  
 Almost half of the 159 so-called small institutions that
responded, and about a third of the 94 medium-sized, have never
filed a form known as the 990T while about 4 percent of 91 large
universities failed to report income from unrelated business
activities, Lerner  said . She declined to discuss the status of
the audits or when the final report will be released.  
 A small institution is one with fewer than 5,000 students
and a medium one has under 15,000, according to the survey.  
 Even schools that file the 990T may be omitting some
unrelated income, Lerner said. The questionnaire the IRS sent
inquired about 47 different categories of business activities.
More institutions reported involvement in potentially taxable
activity than listed those activities in their 990T forms, she
said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Pamela A. MacLean in San Franciscot ;
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        