-- Israeli Military Helicopter Crashes in Romania, Killing All Seven On Board
-- Gwen Ackerman
-- 2010-07-27T14:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/israel-military-helicopter-with-seven-aboard-crashes-in-romania-army-says.html

          
          
             Six Israelis and one Romanian were
killed after an Israeli military helicopter crashed in a
mountainous area of central Romania, the Romanian  Defense
Ministry  said.  
 No survivors were found at the site after the Sikorsky
CH-53 crashed in the Brasov area, according to a ministry
statement posted on its website today. The cause of the accident
is unknown and investigators and prosecutors will continue to
investigate, the ministry said.  
 The helicopter crashed at about 3:20 p.m. local time
yesterday while on a joint military exercise with the Romanian
Air Force, according to the ministry. The training operations
began July 18 and are scheduled to end July 29, the ministry
said. The helicopter smashed yesterday into rocks at an altitude
of 2,100 meters and was completely destroyed, said Mircea Opris,
head of the Romanian mountain rescue crew, speaking on
Realitatea television.  
 The Israeli military confirmed the crash in an e-mailed
statement and said there were four pilots, two aerial mechanics
and a member of the Romanian Air Force aboard the helicopter.
The military said “extensive searches” were under way.  
 The military said in the statement that the training
program in Romania was part of its “cooperation with various
militaries” and was “needed for use of grand-scale landscapes
and challenging terrains, such as those that the IAF will
possibly encounter in future combat.”  
 Another Israeli helicopter made an emergency landing on
July 18 after crew detected a malfunction, the Romanian ministry
said. The aircraft returned safely to an airbase after fixing
the malfunction, the ministry said, without giving other
details.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net 
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        