-- Israel Unexpectedly Boosts Benchmark Rate to 1.75% as Housing Prices Rise
-- Alisa Odenheimer
-- 2010-07-26T15:58:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/israel-unexpectedly-boosts-benchmark-rate-to-1-75-as-housing-prices-rise.html

          
          
             The Bank of Israel unexpectedly
raised its  benchmark interest rate  for the first time in four
months as housing prices climbed and inflation expectations
remained high.  
 Governor  Stanley Fischer  increased the rate by a quarter
percentage point to 1.75 percent, the Jerusalem-based central
bank said today. Five of 16 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg had
predicted the decision, while eleven expected no change.  
 “It seems that the governor has changed his position and
he is giving greater importance to inflation expectations than
to continued support of growth in the economy,” said Dan Ron,
chief investment officer of Tel Aviv-based Tachlit Investment
House.  
 Fischer raised the key interest rate by a percentage point
between August and March as the economy recovered from the
impact of the worst global recession since the Great Depression.
During the past year, housing prices have risen 20 percent, and
if they continue to increase at this pace, a bubble may develop,
Fischer said July 19.  
 The shekel strengthened to 3.8280 against the dollar at
6:42 p.m. in Tel Aviv from 3.8480 just before the decision was
announced.  
 The benchmark Mimshal Shiklit note due January 2020 rose
0.04 shekel to 106.12 at the close in Tel Aviv. The yield on the
5 percent security was 4.51 percent. It reached a low of 4.49
percent on July 22.  
 Bond Impact  
 Most bonds are likely to be hurt,  Amir Kahanovich , an
economist at Clal Finance Investment Management Ltd. in Tel
Aviv, said in a telephone interview. “Bonds in general hate a
surprise increase in interest rates, especially CPI-linked bonds
with longer maturities.”  
 While  inflation  slowed to 2.4 percent in June, falling
within the government’s 1 percent to 3 percent target for the
first time since October, inflation expectations for the next 12
months, as derived from the bond market, are at 3.3 percent,
said  Arie Tal , chief strategist at Alumot-Sprint Investment
House Ltd. in Herzliya, Israel.  
 The rate of increase in housing prices “continues to be
very rapid, and if prices continue to rise at the current pace
they are likely to deviate from the level consistent with the
basic economic conditions,” the bank said in its  statement 
today.  
 Israel began to recover from the global crisis ahead of
many developed countries. The economy is expected to grow by 3.6
percent this year, according to a June 6 Finance Ministry
forecast, and by 3.8 percent next year.  
 Jobless Low  
 Unemployment  fell to a 1 1/2-year low in May, declining to
6.5 percent from 6.6 percent the previous month. Unemployment is
likely to drop to 7.3 percent this year, from 7.6 percent in
2009, the Finance Ministry said in the June 6 forecast.  
 Israel’s  benchmark TA-25 stock index  has gained by about 18
percent in the past year, led by Perrigo Co., the world’s
largest maker of non-prescription, store-branded drugs, which
nearly doubled.  
 In August, Fischer became the first central bank governor
to raise rates in response to signs of a recovery. Other
countries to follow suit include Australia, India and Norway.  
 Fischer, who currently has sole responsibility for setting
rates, was appointed for a second term as governor on March 17.
He is in the process of implementing a new law that calls for
the creation of a six-member Monetary Policy Committee to make
rate decisions.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Stanley Fischer, governor of the Bank of Israel  
                       
                         
                           Kerem Uzel/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Stanley Fischer, governor of the Bank of Israel,  a seminar in Istanbul, on Oct. 3, 2009. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Stanley Fischer, governor of the Bank of Israel,  a seminar in Istanbul, on Oct. 3, 2009. Photographer: Kerem Uzel/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
