-- Japan's Exports Rise Faster Than Economists Estimated
-- Keiko Ujikane
-- 2010-07-26T08:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/japan-s-exports-rose-more-than-estimared-27-7-in-june-from-a-year-earlier.html

          
          
             Japan’s exports rose faster than
economists estimated, sustaining a boost to the recovery that
may diminish as global growth cools and the yen strengthens.  
 Shipments abroad  advanced 27.7 percent in June from a year
earlier, the Finance Ministry said today in Tokyo. The median
estimate of 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for
23.5 percent. From a month earlier, exports fell 1.8 percent.  
 While exports have climbed for seven straight months,
June’s gain was the weakest this year as demand from China and
Europe waned. The yen reached a seven-month high against the
dollar this month, prompting officials including Trade Minister
 Masayuki Naoshima  to warn that its rise may hurt the economy.  
 “Given that exports are the sole driver of Japan’s
moderate economic recovery, the expansion is poised to slow in
the third and the four quarters,” said  Yoshiki Shinke , a
senior economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research in Tokyo. “The
yen’s gain is also posing a threat to exporters’ profits.”  
 Japan’s currency gained 8 percent versus the dollar and 12
percent per euro in the past three months. It rose to 87.13 per
dollar at 5:12 p.m. in Tokyo from 87.62 before the report. The
 Nikkei 225 Stock Average  climbed 0.8 percent to 9,503.66.  
 Imports  advanced 26.1 percent in June from a year earlier,
leaving a  trade surplus  of 687 billion yen ($7.8 billion), 41.1
percent higher than the same month in 2009, today’s data showed.  
 The higher local currency threatens to erode the value of
earnings of exporters such as  Toyota Motor Corp.  Toyota
estimates annual operating profit is reduced by 30 billion yen
when the currency rises 1 yen against the dollar.  
 ‘Appreciated Too Much’  
 “The yen has appreciated too much,”  Koji Miyahara ,
chairman of shipping company Nippon Yusen K.K., said last week.
“I’m hoping the yen will depreciate to a range of 95 to 100 to
the dollar as soon as possible.”  
 Japanese exporters’ currency woes are in contrast with
their rivals in South Korea, where a weaker won helped  Samsung
Electronics Co.  and Hynix Semiconductor Inc. post record
earnings in the second quarter. South Korea grew 1.5 percent in
the second quarter from the previous three months, a report
showed today, faster than the median estimate of economists.  
 Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s biggest brokerage, abandoned
its recommendation for an “overweight” position in Japanese
shares, seeing reduced momentum for earnings and weaker
economic-growth prospects. “The recovery in Japanese earnings
is already beginning to lose momentum,” Nomura analysts
including  Ian Scott  wrote in an e-mailed report dated July 23.  
 Slower Expansion  
 Japan’s economic growth probably slowed to an annual 1.7
percent rate in the second quarter from 5 percent in the first
three months of 2010, according to the median estimate of 11
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 Growth is moderating in the U.S. and China, Japan’s
biggest markets. China’s expansion cooled to 10.3 percent in
the second quarter. In the U.S., growth eased to an annual 2.5
percent pace in the same period, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed ahead of figures due this week.
In Europe, growth is at risk from government spending cuts to
stem the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  
 Shipments to  China  climbed 22 percent in June from a year
earlier, moderating from 25.3 percent in May, today’s report
showed. Exports to the  U.S.  gained 21.1 percent, more than the
previous month’s 17.7 percent. Shipments to  Europe  increased 9
percent, about half the pace of May’s 17.4 percent.  
 Yamaha Motor Co. , the world’s second-largest motorcycle
maker, said this month that sales in North America and Europe
may fall twice as much as forecast.  
 Recovery Intact  
 Still, economists say the slowdown abroad is unlikely to
derail Japan’s recovery. The Finance Ministry’s regional chiefs
raised their assessment of the economy today for a second
quarter, saying it is “picking up steadily at a slow pace,
although it remains severe.”  
 “Even though external demand will likely lose momentum,
it doesn’t mean Japan will fall back into a recession,” said
 Yasunari Ueno , chief market economist at Mizuho Securities Co.
in Tokyo. “But the downside risks could have a bigger impact
on Japan’s economy than the upside risks do.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A China Ocean Shipping Group Co. (Cosco) shipping container is loaded onto a container ship at a container terminal in Tokyo. Photographer: Kiyoshi Ota/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
