-- Khazanah to Make Buyout Bid for Hospital Operator Parkway, Reuters Says
-- Ranjeetha Pakiam
-- 2010-07-26T05:21:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/khazanah-to-make-buyout-bid-for-parkway-reuters-says-update1-.html

          
          
             Khazanah Nasional Bhd. , a Malaysian
state investment company vying for control of  Parkway Holdings
Ltd. , will make a general offer for the Singapore-based hospital
operator valuing it at $3.3 billion, Reuters said.  
 Khazanah proposes to pay about S$3.95 a share for Parkway,
Reuters said. A Khazanah unit requested that Parkway shares be
halted on the Singapore exchange pending the release of “a
material announcement.”  
 Fortis Healthcare Ltd.  offered S$3.80 a share this month
for Parkway, Asia’s biggest hospital operator, after Khazanah
made a S$3.78-a-share bid on May 27 to more than double its
stake in Parkway to 51.5 percent. Khazanah’s partial offer is
due to expire today. Khazanah spokesman  Mohd Asuki Abas  declined
to comment on a Reuters report earlier today, citing
unidentified people familiar with the matter, which said the
Kuala Lumpur-based group would make a general offer for Parkway.  
 Buying Parkway would give Khazanah full ownership of 16
additional hospitals in eight Asian nations, adding to its
stakes in India’s  Apollo Hospitals Enterprise Ltd.  and IMU
Health Sdn Bhd. in Malaysia. The buyout would derail the
expansion plans of  Malvinder  and  Shivinder Singh , who run Fortis.
The billionaire brothers are seeking to tap health-care markets
in Asian nations, which are expanding as much as 17 percent a
year.  
 Fortis will brief reporters on an “important corporate
announcement,” the company said in an e-mail today. The
briefing will be held at noon at New Delhi’s Taj Mansingh hotel,
it said.  
 Fortis shares  gained as much as 1.1 percent to 160 rupees
in Mumbai trading and were 0.7 percent higher at 159.3 rupees at
10:49 a.m. local time. Parkway shares were unchanged at S$3.88
on July 23 at the 5 p.m. close of trading on the Singapore
exchange.  
 Khazanah started talks in early July with five banks for
loans that would enable it to increase an offer for Parkway,
according to three people with knowledge of the matter.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ranjeetha Pakiam  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        