-- King of England Is Money Master in Northern Rock's Wake
-- Jennifer Ryan
-- 2010-07-26T23:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/king-of-england-emerges-as-master-of-money-in-wake-of-northern-rock-rescue.html

          
          
             One day in early June, Bank of
England Governor  Mervyn King  arrived at No. 11 Downing Street
for a meeting with U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne .  
 As Britain’s first coalition government since World War II
wrangled over proposals to  cut spending , the session between
King and Osborne set in motion an overhaul of U.K. financial
regulation that would give the Bank of England more power than
it has ever had in its 316-year history, Bloomberg Markets
magazine reports in its September 2010 issue.  
 Osborne told King that the government was pushing ahead
with plans to let the central bank both set  interest rates  and
police the country’s banks, insurers and investment firms,
according to people with knowledge of the meeting.  
 The new responsibilities would make King, 62, the point man
as Britain struggles to tame  inflation  and regulate and revive
the institutions that created the credit crisis while the
Conservative-led government enacts the deepest spending cuts in
more than 60 years.  
 Two years into his second five-year term as head of the
Bank of England, King is about to gain more combined power over
domestic financial regulation and monetary policy than any other
central banker.  
 Trichet, Bernanke  
 European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet ’s
attempts to navigate the 16-nation euro zone out of a sovereign-
debt crisis are constrained by the need to defer to domestic
regulators on bank oversight. While U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  gets increased power over non-bank
financial firms under the Dodd-Frank law, he will have to
coordinate with other agencies that regulate securities firms
and the insurance industry.  
 “It’s a massive expansion of the bank’s
responsibilities,” King says. Unlike the Fed or the ECB, the
Bank of England will wield power over both interest rates and
regulation across the financial industry.  
 The Financial Services Authority, announced in 1997 to
oversee the financial industry, will split in two. Most of its
regulatory powers will move to the bank under  Hector Sants , the
FSA’s current chief executive officer. He’ll become one of
King’s deputies and chief executive of a new Prudential
Regulatory Authority, which will regulate all deposit-taking
institutions, insurers, investment banks and clearing houses.
The PRA will operate under a board chaired by King.  
 ‘Most Powerful’  
 A separate Consumer Protection and Markets Authority will
be created to look after customers, regulate exchanges and take
over the FSA’s authority to impose penalties for market abuse.
The bank’s new powers won’t be official until Parliament passes
a law on regulation, which the government says will be before
2012.  
 “He will be the most powerful central banker in the
world,” says  John Gieve , who was King’s deputy for financial
stability from 2006 to 2009.  
 Some politicians question whether strengthening the Bank of
England’s authority is the way to return the country’s financial
system to health. “I worry that simply shunting the FSA into
the bank doesn’t fix anything,” says  Alistair Darling , who was
chancellor from 2007 until May in the previous Labour
government. “It’s a lot to ask of one institution.”  
 The central bank’s handling of the financial crisis under
King, a former economics professor, has been criticized.  
 ‘Absence of Contrition’  
 “Little was done to deal with the bubble, despite public
concerns about excessive risk taking, while the response to the
crisis was slow,”  Sushil Wadhwani , who served on the bank’s
interest-rate-setting Monetary Policy Committee from 1999 to
2002, wrote in a collection of essays called The Future of
Finance, which was published in July by the London School of
Economics. “Yet the absence of contrition from the BOE has been
surprising.”  
 Lawmakers are already considering measures to rein in King.
The government plan will also create a new Financial Policy
Committee with King as chairman that would address risks to
market stability. Bank of England executives will make up the
majority of the committee, with other members coming from other
regulatory bodies and the markets.  
 That authority should have limits, says  Andrew Tyrie , a
Conservative lawmaker and chairman of the Treasury Committee in
Parliament.  
 “In my view, in a crisis, the chancellor should consider
assuming chairmanship of the committee,” Tyrie says. The
blueprint calls for the chancellor to have final say on any use
of public funds, including through emergency lending.  
 Only Mistakes Remembered  
 Regulators are often remembered only for their mistakes
rather than their successes, says  David Green , who spent 30
years at the Bank of England and several years at the FSA.
“Supervision only goes wrong,” he says.  
 Some say King was slow to recognize the scale of the crisis
when  credit markets  seized up. King himself says he believed
that merely pumping cash into the markets wouldn’t be
sufficient.  
 “This wasn’t a crisis of liquidity,” King says. “It was
a solvency crisis, and the answer in the end has to depend on
improvements in the quality of the balance sheets of banks. To
do that, they need more capital.”  
 When the crisis hit the U.K. in August 2007, King initially
refused to boost liquidity in the interbank market. In early
September, he sent written testimony to Parliament decrying
“moral hazard” -- the fear that bailing out a troubled
institution encourages risky behavior.  
 Bank Run  
 He turned down a request from  Lloyds TSB Group Plc  for 30
billion pounds ($47 billion) of stopgap funds to help finance a
takeover of a troubled Newcastle-based mortgage lender called
Northern Rock Plc. By Sept. 14, news of the bank’s woes
triggered the first run on a British bank in more than 140
years.  
 At the time, the U.K. had no legal framework for resolving
bank failures. Darling stepped in and guaranteed all Northern
Rock deposits, and the bank became an emblem of the wider
financial crisis that swept through the U.K.  
 “Moral hazard in the normal course of things is a
perfectly good thing to be concerned about,” Darling says.
“But when the banking system is crashing all around you, it’s
all pretty academic.”  
 Under a  law passed in 2009 , the Bank of England can take
control of a bank facing insolvency through a bridge bank if its
failure could undermine financial stability. “If we had had a
resolution authority during Northern Rock, it would have been
resolved over a weekend,” King says.  
 Evolving Views  
 King’s views of whether the Bank of England needs more
power have evolved since 1997, when the Labour government moved
bank supervision to the newly created FSA, those who know him
say.  
 “He was happy when bank supervision left the Bank of
England, and now he’s very likely happy that it is returning to
the bank,” says  Stanley Fischer , governor of the  Bank of
Israel , who’s known King for almost 40 years.  
 “We all now understand the lender of last resort function
much better after the crisis,” says Fischer, 66, who was born
in what is now Zambia, a part of the Commonwealth, and who
studied in the 1960s at the LSE, where King later taught.  
 Fischer, who advised Bernanke on his graduate economics
thesis while teaching at Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
praises King’s skill at steering the Bank of England.  
 ‘An Intellectual Powerhouse’  
 “Mervyn’s clarity of mind about mission, about approach,
about theory has meant that the Bank of England is an example to
many about how to run the central bank,” Fischer says. “It’s
an intellectual powerhouse in the central banking world.”  
 The benefits of centralizing authority over banking
outweigh the risk that too much power will be held by one man,
former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker  says.  
 “I am a believer in central banks having a strong hand in
banking regulation and supervision,” says Volcker, 82, a senior
economic adviser to President  Barack Obama  and one of the
architects of the new U.S. financial legislation. “When we had
the crisis, it showed that the central bank wasn’t quite on top
of things.”  
 King says expanding the bank’s authority is crucial for it
to succeed in its traditional role of controlling  inflation .
“Monetary stability and financial stability are two sides of
the same coin,” he said in a June 16 speech in London’s
financial district. “During the crisis, the former was
threatened by the failure to secure the latter.”  
 Tennis With Geitner  
 The central bank governor peppers his speech with
metaphors. “Macroeconomic stability,” he wrote in a 2004
paper, “is a bit like healthy living: You need to find a
sustainable way of doing it. There is no point alternating
between a crash diet and bingeing.”  
 King plays tennis with his policy-making colleagues. He’s
volleyed with U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and
 Lawrence Summers , director of the White House’s National
Economic Council. King, who attends Wimbledon every year, lost
to former Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan  and former Treasury
Secretary John Snow in a doubles match in 2004. He keeps a
cricket ball and a soccer ball from his favorite team, Aston
Villa, on an antique side table in his office overlooking a
leafy courtyard.  
 King’s path to power began in postwar Wolverhampton, an
industrial and mining city 130 miles (210 kilometers) northwest
of London, where he was the son of a schoolmaster. Like other
clever boys of modest means, King passed a test for 11-year-olds
to enter a state-funded grammar school that picked students
based on academic ability.  
 Boys in Spectacles  
 “It was an all-boys school, the sort of little boys who
wore spectacles,” says  Stephen Lewis , a former Wolverhampton
Grammar School mate who’s now chief economist at Monument
Securities Ltd. in London. “Even by the standards of the
school, he was very intellectually oriented. He was very good at
mathematics.”  
 In 1966, King entered King’s College at Cambridge
University to study economics. At the time, Cambridge was a
bastion of Keynesianism, the theories advanced by 20th-century
economist  John Maynard Keynes , who advocated stepped-up
government spending to prevent or reduce suffering during
depressions. King was treasurer of the Liberal Club and studied
under prominent Keynesian economists, such as Mario Nuti.  
 “If you studied at Cambridge in the ‘60s, Keynesian
economics was economics,’’ says  Peter Kellner , who was King’s
classmate at Cambridge and is president of London-based polling
company  YouGov Plc . He says King’s political views were
progressive and eclectic. ‘‘He was center-left in his general
outlook,” Kellner says.  
 Harvard Scholarship  
 In 1971, King won a John F. Kennedy Scholarship to Harvard
University, where he was a post-graduate student researching tax
policies at the same time as  Martin Feldstein , an economics
professor who would later become chief economic adviser to
President  Ronald Reagan .  
 “His primary work was about corporation tax and how it
affected the cost of capital,” says Feldstein, who didn’t
supervise King though they researched similar topics.  
 King spent the next two decades in academia, teaching
economics and researching tax policy and public finance. In 1983
and 1984, he returned to the U.S. as a visiting professor at
MIT, where he had adjoining offices with Bernanke, who was also
a visiting professor at the time. King said last year that the
friendship he forged at MIT led to a close working relationship
with Bernanke during the financial crisis.  
 Studied Market Volatility  
 After MIT, King joined the LSE, where he initially focused
on microeconomics, examining the relationship between tax
policies and investment. He moved toward macroeconomics as a
founder of the LSE’s  Financial Markets Group , where he co-
authored a paper in 1989 with Wadhwani, the former MPC member,
titled “Transmission of Volatility Between Stock Markets.”  
 The work concluded that the 1987 market crash was caused by
investors in different markets overlooking diverse local
economic conditions and examined the connection between
volatility and contagion.  
 King also began advising U.K. politicians on economic
issues. In the 1980s, he consulted for the now-defunct Social
Democrats on tax, poverty and pensions.  
 “He has a social conscience,” says  Ros Altmann , a
nonexecutive director at the LSE and a former student of King.
She also advised the party, which merged with the Liberals in
1988 to form the Liberal Democrats, now part of Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s coalition.  
 King’s academic work got the attention of former
Conservative Chancellor  Norman Lamont , who says he tapped him
for advice on simplification of the tax system. In 1991, while
Lamont was chancellor, King joined the Bank of England as chief
economist at the age of 42.  
 Bid to Prop Up Pound  
 He was thrust into a crisis a year later, when the pound
came under severe pressure from investors led by hedge fund
manager  George Soros .  
 King tried to enlist German help in propping up the British
currency, flying to meet  Otmar Issing , his counterpart at the
Bundesbank in Frankfurt.  
 “The meeting really took place under Wagnerian conditions,
with thunder and lightning,” Issing says. The pound exited
Europe’s exchange-rate mechanism two days later. “Mervyn King
later called this the most unsuccessful mission ever,” Issing
says. “Mr. King, like me, was well aware that the British pound
was overvalued.”  
 When  Tony Blair ’s Labour Party swept to power in 1997, it
made changes to the role of the central bank, then under the
leadership of  Eddie George . No longer would the bank oversee
British lenders; Chancellor  Gordon Brown  handed that task to a
newly created FSA.  
 Scandals Missed  
 He was reacting to criticism of the bank’s record that
decade, when it had missed two global banking scandals: the
collapse of Bank of Commerce & Credit International SA in 1991
and the near failure of Barings Plc after rogue trader  Nick Leeson  lost 862 million pounds on futures contracts, forcing the
bank’s sale to  ING Groep NV  in 1995.  
 Brown also created the nine-member Monetary Policy
Committee at the bank, allowing the institution to set interest
rates independently of the government for the first time. A year
later, King was named the bank’s deputy governor. When George
retired in 2003, King became governor.  
 King and George were different in their approaches, Lamont
says.  
 ‘Conceptual, Theoretical’  
 “Mervyn is more an academic economist, more conceptual,
more theoretical,” he says. “Eddie George was more of a
pragmatist, obviously more attuned to the banking system because
he had been in the Bank of England for such a long time.”  
 Today, King sidesteps questions about his political views.
He has thrown his full support behind Osborne’s “austerity to
prosperity” economic plans. The aim is to reduce the country’s
deficit of 11 percent of  gross domestic product  -- the biggest
among the Group of Seven nations -- to 1.1 percent by the year
ending on March 31, 2016.  
 The U.S. isn’t far behind: The White House projects the
 U.S. deficit  will be about 10.6 percent of GDP this year.  
 “I am very pleased that there is a very clear and binding
commitment to accelerate the reduction in the deficit over the
lifetime of the Parliament,” King said at the bank’s quarterly
press conference on inflation on May 12, adding that he was
asked by the new government to comment publicly on the plan.  
 Pay Freeze  
 Osborne’s cuts take aim at welfare spending. He’s also
announced a two-year public-employee pay freeze and an increase
in the national sales tax to 20 percent from 17.5 percent, both
starting in January.  
 King is now a key ally in Cameron’s austerity policies,
which stand in contrast to those of Obama. The U.S. president
has been reluctant to pull back stimulus programs despite
concern about the budget deficit.  
 The U.S. has more room to maneuver as investors still snap
up its debt: The yield on  two-year U.S. Treasury notes  touched
0.5516 percent on July 23, the lowest ever. On the same day, the
equivalent U.K. bond yielded 0.85 percent. Obama says government
spending is still necessary to keep the global economy from
plunging back into recession. Such a divergence of opinions
between the U.S. and the U.K., as well as other European nations
that adopted austerity plans, was on display at June’s summit of
Group of 20 nations in Toronto, which failed to reach a
consensus on when to unwind stimulus programs.  
 Social Conscience  
 King retains his social conscience: He says he regrets that
the pain of the financial crisis will weigh most on the less
well off.  
 “The thing I feel most strongly about is that the people
who are going to bear the burden of this crisis are not the
people who caused it,” King says. “We will have no excuse if
we don’t learn the lessons of the crisis and reduce the
probability of it happening again.”  
 The economy is recovering after six consecutive quarters of
contraction. It surged 1.1 percent in the second quarter after
growing 0.3 percent in the previous quarter. And inflation --
the central bank’s No. 1 priority -- has persisted above its 2
percent target. In May, prices rose at a 3.4 percent annual
rate. In June, the gain was 3.2 percent -- well above the  1.1
percent rate  in the U.S. and the 1.4 percent in the euro zone.  
 “The prime responsibility of the Bank of England is to
meet the inflation target and to conduct monetary policy,” King
says. “We forget that at our peril.”  
 Inflation Seen Falling  
 King says inflation should fall to its target in the first
quarter of next year as the damage wrought by the recession
tempers price pressures. Oil prices rose as much as 35 percent
in the past 12 months while the pound weakened more than 13
percent against the euro -- the currency of the U.K.’s biggest
trading partner -- and almost 16 percent against the dollar.  
 Osborne’s plan to raise the sales tax in January may feed
inflation in 2011 and prompt some companies to raise prices,
policy makers said, according to the minutes of the July 8
interest-rate meeting.  
 King has few tools left to spur growth.  Interest rates  have
stood at 0.5 percent since March 2009. His main strategy is so-
called  quantitative easing , known as QE, which involves the
central bank flooding the economy with money by buying
government bonds. Since early last year, the bank has bought 200
billion pounds of bonds.  
 If the economy weakens in the face of government-spending
cuts, King says, he’s willing to roll the printing presses
again. “It is an instrument in our armory and it will remain
so,” King said at the May 12 press conference. “It certainly
has not been ruled out.”  
 ‘A Monumental Mistake’  
 The policy has its critics: It could send inflation out of
control, according to Altmann, the LSE nonexecutive director and
former student of King’s.  
 “It’s absolutely a monumental mistake,” says Altmann,
who still talks to King. “We’ve had discussions about that. I’m
much more concerned about the inflationary impact of what we’re
doing.”  
 King’s support of low interest rates has stirred dissent at
the bank itself, too. “We need to recognize that the weakness
of the pound -- and its upward impact on inflation --may also
have been affected by U.K. monetary policy and perceptions about
its future stance,” MPC member  Andrew Sentance  said in a speech
on July 13.  
 Sentance, at the MPC’s monthly meeting in June, became the
first policy maker in almost two years to push for a rate
increase. He was outvoted by the committee, of which King is
chairman.  
 Potential Conflict  
 Adding supervision of financial firms to the central bank’s
brief may leave it torn between setting interest rates at a
level that’s right for banks and a level that’s right for the
whole economy, says Gieve, King’s former deputy.  
 “If you give the central bank special responsibility for
the financial sector, there’s a risk it will tailor its monetary
policy too much to the financial sector’s interests and
concerns,” he says. “Interest rates are the lowest they’ve
ever been in history, so in that sense, the accelerator is still
flat on the floor.”  
 The prior system, under which the Bank of England, the FSA
and the U.K. Treasury were supposed to work together to ensure
financial stability, failed. None of the three regulators was
taking action to address overall risk as bank balance sheets
exploded.  
 From 2001 to 2007, assets of U.K. banks tripled to 6
trillion pounds as lenders expanded by packing mortgages into
securities and selling them. The central bank’s biannual
financial stability reports highlighted the impending liquidity
crisis yet lacked any sense of urgency.  
 Black Swan  
 “If it becomes impossible or expensive to find
counterparties, financial institutions could be left holding
unplanned credit risk exposures,”  the bank wrote in April 2007 .  
 That was only a few months after the bank had invited
 Nassim Taleb , who was about to publish his best-selling book The
Black Swan (Random House, 2007), to give a talk called “The
Impact of the Highly Improbable” to a group of central bank
officials.  
 “I gave them a measure of robustness of banks to rare
events, but they weren’t interested in taking the idea the extra
mile,” Taleb says. “They were too scared of rocking the
boat.”  
 If King was slow to recognize the magnitude of the crisis,
he wasn’t alone. “It’s a fair criticism of all central banks,
all regulators and all governments, that the issue of financial
stability was put on the back burner for a lot of the last 10
years,” Darling says.  
 Keynesian Uncertainty  
 Even though he was steeped in Keynesian economics at
Cambridge, King criticizes deficit spending while finding
Keynes’s focus on uncertainty compelling.  
 “There are times when sentiment changes and people’s
perceptions of the probabilities of events change,” King says.
“They start to imagine events as being possible they didn’t
even contemplate before. That’s the distinction between risk and
uncertainty.”  
 After the run on Northern Rock in 2007, uncertainty had
deepened. King eventually concluded the financial system was
facing potential insolvency, not merely a crisis of liquidity.  
 Flooding the markets with cash was only a stopgap measure
to deal with the underlying problem: capital shortages.  
 King had been urging the Treasury to recapitalize British
banks by taking stakes. On Sept. 11, 2008, King declined to
extend a special liquidity plan, announced the previous April,
that let banks swap mortgage-backed bonds for U.K. Treasury
bills.  
 Lehman Collapse  
 Four days later, something happened that changed
perceptions of what could happen in the markets:  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  filed for bankruptcy. It was the black swan that
Taleb had warned of. King then made a U-turn and extended the
liquidity plan until the following January.  
 During the worst of the financial debacle in October 2008,
King argued for a major capital injection into the country’s
ailing banks, according to people familiar with the matter. On
Tuesday, Oct. 7, King attended a meeting at 10 Downing Street to
finalize the details of a bank bailout plan and pushed for a
bigger capital injection than the FSA had proposed. King was
worried that  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and HBOS Plc, two
of the country’s biggest banks, wouldn’t be able to open their
doors the next day.  
 The plan announced the next day was unprecedented. The
Treasury offered to spend as much as 50 billion pounds buying
stakes in Britain’s banks to prevent a panic. King had
succeeded.  
 The bank’s new powers should enable King to shield the
financial system from banks taking the kind of risks they did in
the mortgage-security markets in the past. And as he knows only
too well, Keynesian uncertainty can thwart even the world’s most
powerful central banker.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Stephanie Baker  in London at 
 ssaid@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer  Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Mervyn King, governor of the Bank of England, pauses during the bank's quarterly inflation report news conference in London. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
