-- Kirchner to Meet With Santos Today to Help End Colombia-Venezuela Dispute
-- Charlie Devereux
-- 2010-07-26T19:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/kirchner-to-meet-with-santos-today-to-help-end-colombia-venezuela-dispute.html

          
          
             Former Argentine President  Nestor Kirchner  will meet with Colombian President-elect  Juan Manuel Santos  in a bid to ease tensions with neighboring Venezuela.  
 Santos, on a tour of Latin America before he takes office
Aug. 7, has declined to comment on Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez ’s decision to sever diplomatic ties over Colombian
charges that as many as 1,500 rebels are using his country’s
territory to carry out cross-border attacks.  
 Kirchner, the secretary general of the 12-member Union of
South American Nations, is trying to moderate strains between
the countries on behalf of regional governments. He’ll meet with
Santos at 10 p.m. local time, according to the Unasur press
office in Buenos Aires. He’s set to travel to Caracas for a
meeting with Chavez before Santos takes office next month.  
 Chavez said at a rally of supporters yesterday that he
would suspend oil shipments to the U.S. if there’s an American-
sponsored attack by Colombia, even if it meant Venezuelans would
have to “eat stones” due to a collapse in oil revenue.  
 “We wouldn’t send a drop of oil to their refineries,”
said Chavez, who suspended a trip to Cuba in response to the
crisis. “Not a drop, because that’s the great culprit for the
tensions in this part of the world and the entire planet.”  
 Santos, as outgoing President  Alvaro Uribe ’s defense
minister, oversaw an air strike in Ecuador that killed  Raul Reyes , a top commander of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of
Colombia. Chavez sent troops to the border in retaliation for
the 2008 raid.  
 Added Rhetoric  
 Colombia’s peso gained 0.5 percent to 1,858.9 per U.S.
dollar at 2:25 p.m. New York time. The peso has gained
10 percent this year, the best performance among 26 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  
 Chavez, 55, is ramping up his rhetoric about an attack from
Colombia as a way to deflect attention from Venezuela’s
deepening recession and his falling approval ratings, said
 Patrick Esteruelas , an analyst at Eurasia Group.  
 “Chavez has a vested interest in playing up the Colombian
threat in order to push away from the headlines much of the poor
economic news,” Esteruelas said in a phone interview from New
York. “This amounts to an early Christmas present to Chavez
from Uribe.”  
 Venezuela, the largest oil exporter in South America,
depends on crude for 95 percent of export revenue and 50 percent
of government spending. The U.S. is its largest export market
for crude and refined products.  
 U.S. Response  
 State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said today in
Washington that the U.S. has no plans to attack Venezuela.  
 “We have no intention of engaging in military action
against Venezuela,” Crowley said in a press conference.  
 Chavez severed ties with Colombia on July 22 after Uribe’s
government presented photos, satellite images and other evidence
that it said showed several guerrilla commanders and their
fighters were taking refuge in Venezuela.  
 Santos, who visited Mexico last week, named  Maria Angela Holguin , a former ambassador to Caracas, as his foreign minister
in a bid to improve relations with the country. The 58-year-old
president-elect also said he hoped Chavez would attend his
inauguration.  
 A group of South American foreign ministers will meet in
Quito next week to discuss the conflict. Brazilian President
 Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva and Ecuador’s  Rafael Correa  may visit
Venezuela to discuss the situation with Chavez in the coming
days.  
 Trade Response  
 Uribe said in a statement late yesterday that the
government is reducing requirements to establish duty-free
zones, lowering value-added taxes and boosting the sale of
national goods along the border to alleviate the economic
fallout from the crisis with Venezuela.  
 Trade between the two nations sank following Colombia’s
decision last year to allow the U.S. military to increase its
presence in Colombia, the recipient of more than $7 billion in
U.S. anti-narcotics and counter-insurgency aid since 2000.  
 Exports from South America’s fourth-biggest economy to
Venezuela declined 71 percent in the first five months of 2010
from the same period a year earlier. Before relations soured,
Venezuela was Colombia’s biggest export market after the U.S.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
 Charlie Devereux  in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        