-- Korea's `Wrap Account' Market to Draw Investors, Samsung Securities Says
-- Saeromi Shin
-- 2010-07-26T03:34:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/korea-s-wrap-account-market-to-draw-investors-samsung-securities-says.html

          
          
             South Korean brokerages may expand
“wrap accounts” or personalized portfolios by an average 15
percent a year by tapping customers who lost money picking
stocks or mutual funds, Samsung Securities Co. said.  
 The growth rate may be sustained for as long as eight
years, said  Lee Bo Kyoung , a senior manager in portfolio
management at Samsung Securities. Wrap accounts excluding those
investing in short-term money-market instruments have surged to
about 11 trillion won ($9.2 billion) this year from 7.4 trillion
won at the end of last year, Lee estimates.  
 “It’s still a fledgling market in Korea even though it was
introduced in 2003,” Lee said in an interview today. “While
going through financial-market turmoil, some investors started
to question whether their money was being properly managed, and
to see the need for more tailored asset management services.”  
 Assets of funds that predominantly invest in stocks dropped
to 114 trillion won as of July 20 from 126 trillion won at end-
2009, according to  Korea Financial Investment Association  data.
The benchmark  Kospi Index  stock has climbed 87 percent since
tumbling to the lowest in more than three years in October 2008
amid the global financial crisis, on optimism the government’s
stimulus measures and low interest rates will drive growth.  
 The wrap accounts combine broking services, advice on asset
allocation and discretionary management at a fixed fee, Lee
said. Equity-type wrap accounts charge customers fees amounting
to about 2.5 percent of invested assets, he said.  
 Doubling Assets  
 Samsung Securities, the biggest in South Korea by total
cash deposited in brokerage accounts, has doubled assets under
management in wrap accounts that exclude short-term money-market
instruments to 1.62 trillion won from 800 billion won at the end
of last year, Lee said. Its biggest competitors include Woori
Investment & Securities Co., Mirae Asset Securities Co., Hana
Daetoo Securities Co. and Daewoo Securities Co., he said.  
 In wrap accounts, brokerages tailor investment portfolios
to individual customer needs by themselves or with help from
outside advisors. Investors can get updates on their portfolios
within a few days of any change, in contrast with mutual funds
that are required to disclose holdings every three months.
Separate account holders also can request to add individual
securities, Lee said.  
 About 15 percent of Samsung Securities’ wrap account
holders are investors who moved their money from funds, while
the rest used to invest by themselves, Lee said, citing the
company’s analysis. Samsung Securities, which has hired 20
advisory firms, targets individuals with minimum assets of 100
million won.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Saeromi Shin  in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        