-- Kuwait's Gulf Bank Reports Second-Quarter Profit After Sale of Investments
-- Fiona MacDonald
-- 2010-07-26T13:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/kuwait-s-gulf-bank-reports-7-million-first-half-profit-on-investment-sale.html

          
          
             Gulf Bank KSC  reported a second-
quarter profit after a loss in the year-earlier period as the
Kuwaiti lender sold part of its international investment assets.  
 Net income was 1.5 million dinars ($5 million), according
to Bloomberg calculations based on the six-month profit of 2
million dinars provided by the bank in an e-mailed statement
today. Gulf Bank reported a loss of 9.1 million dinars in the
second quarter of last year, according to Bloomberg data.  
 “The bank’s provisional requirements up to end of June have
been provided for,” Chairman  Ali Al-Rashaid Al-Bader  said in the
statement. “We hope the forthcoming periods will witness an
improvement in the net profit, which is, in part, dependent on
the economic situation.”  
 Banks in the region are trying to recover from the worst
economic crisis since the 1930s, which crimped lending, weakened
capital-market activity and increased loan defaults. Kuwait was
forced to guarantee all deposits at local banks in 2008 after
Gulf Bank lost $1.3 billion in derivatives trading in 2008 and
 Global Investment House KSCC , the country’s biggest investment
bank, defaulted on $2.8 billion of debt.  
 Gulf Bank’s first-half operating profit rose 70 percent to
87.1 million dinars and most of it was “retained to meet the
provisions for the risk of credit facilities portfolio,” the
bank said the statement.  
 Gulf Bank  shares rose 2.3 percent to close at 440 fils in
Kuwait today before the results were announced. The stock has
gained 47 percent this year compared with a 12 rise in the
 Kuwait Banking Sector Unweighted Index.   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fiona MacDonald  in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        