-- NATO-Afghan Probe of Attack Finds No Civilian Deaths as Karzai Cites 52
-- Eltaf Najafizada
-- 2010-07-26T18:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/nato-afghan-probe-of-attack-finds-no-civilian-deaths-as-karzai-cites-52.html

          
          
             A NATO-Afghan investigation into an
attack near a village in southern Afghanistan found no evidence
of civilian casualties, a spokesman for the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization said. President  Hamid Karzai  has said 52
civilians were killed.  
 The probe by NATO and the Afghan government “into
allegations of civilian casualties near the village of Rigi in
Helmand Province on July 23 has thus far revealed no evidence of
civilians injured or killed,” U.S. Army  Colonel Wayne Shanks , a
spokesman for NATO’s  International Security Assistance Force  in
Afghanistan, said in an e-mailed statement.  
 “Any speculation at this point of an alleged civilian
casualty in Rigi Village is completely unfounded,” he said.  
 President  Barack Obama  took office last year vowing to
reduce civilian deaths in Afghanistan even as he committed more
troops to the fight against Taliban insurgents in what is now
the longest U.S. war in history.  
 Karzai, in a statement issued earlier today by his office
in Kabul, said Afghan women and children were among those killed
July 23 when NATO-led troops launched a rocket attack on a house
in Rigi in the Sangin district of Helmand. He cited reports by
the National Directorate of Security.  
 Shanks said the investigation reviewed an operation that
occurred 10 kilometers (16 miles) south of Rigi, where coalition
and Afghan Army forces “came under attack by machine guns” and
rocket-propelled grenades.  
 “The joint force responded with attack helicopters and
precision-guided missiles,” and six insurgents were killed,
including a Taliban commander, he said.  
 Shamsullah Sarayee, a tribal elder in Sangin district, said
that people in Rigi “tried to save their lives” by sheltering
in a house. More than 50 civilians died when a rocket struck the
building, he said by telephone.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anthony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul, Afghanistan at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        