-- Nomura Faces Loss on Trading, Investment Banking
-- Takahiko Hyuga
-- 2010-07-27T07:55:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/nomura-may-report-loss-as-trading-investment-banking-slump-analysts-say.html

          
          
             Nomura Holdings Inc. , Japan’s
biggest brokerage, may report its first loss in five quarters
this week on a slump in trading and investment banking earnings,
according to analysts.  
 The company will probably report a loss of 334 million yen
($3.8 million) for the three months ended June 30, compared with
a profit of 11.4 billion yen a year earlier, according to the
average of four  estimates  in a survey by Bloomberg News.
Forecasts ranged from a profit of 2.2 billion yen to a loss of
3.8 billion yen.  
 Swings in stock and bond markets and signs of economic
headwinds in the U.S., Europe and China have deterred clients
from trading and making share sales, crimping earnings at global
rivals including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit Suisse
Group AG. Chief Executive Officer  Kenichi Watanabe  has also been
hurt by defections of former managers from Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  
 “The company needs to gain more market share in the
investment-banking business by expanding its U.S. operation to
boost revenue,” said  Wataru Kasatani , a senior analyst at  MDAM Asset Management Co.  in Tokyo, which oversees about $2.5 billion
in Japanese stocks. “It is overshadowed by its overseas rivals
and its smaller revenue means it has a lower break-even point.”  
 Nomura is scheduled to announce first-quarter earnings on
July 30.  Keiko Sugai , a spokeswoman for the Tokyo-based company,
declined to comment.  
 ‘Severe Market’  
 The firm, which last posted a loss in the three months
ended March 31, 2009, as staff costs doubled on the acquisition
of businesses from Lehman Brothers in Asia and Europe, hasn’t
made a forecast for quarterly or full-year earnings.  
 The  stock  has slumped 30 percent this year, more than the
Topix Securities index’s 26 percent decline and a drop of 6.8
percent for Japan’s benchmark Topix gauge. Nomura rose 1.3
percent to close at 475 yen in Tokyo today.  
 Investment banking fees probably totaled about 19 billion
yen for the quarter, compared with 29.7 billion yen a year
earlier, according to a report by  Tokai Tokyo Financial Holdings
Inc.  on July 20. Trading profit may have more than halved to
about 56 billion yen from 121.1 billion yen, said Tokai Tokyo,
which estimates Nomura may post a loss of 3.8 billion yen.  
 “Nomura faced a very severe market,” said  Tatsuo Majima ,
a Tokyo-based analyst at Tokai. “Its domestic business remained
relatively strong, but the trading business deteriorated.”
Majima said the sovereign debt crisis in Europe crimped trading
and deal making as investors sought to avoid risk.  
 Daiwa Securities  
 Domestic rival  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. , Japan’s second-
largest brokerage, today reported a second straight quarterly
loss as underwriting fees and trading profit slumped.  
 The firm’s first-quarter loss of 1.19 billion yen compares
with net income of 17.9 billion yen a year ago and a loss of 2.8
billion yen in the three months through March, Tokyo-based Daiwa
said in a statement. The loss was less than the 4.7 billion yen
average estimate of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 Daiwa Chief Executive Officer  Shigeharu Suzuki  is trying to
expand broking and investment banking in Asia to fill the gap
left after dissolving a 10-year-old joint venture with  Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group Inc.  in December. The stock rose 0.3
percent to 375 yen today.  
 Global Competition  
 Nomura underwrote 202.4 billion yen of share sales in Japan
for the quarter, compared with 553.9 billion yen a year earlier
when it sold shares for Sumitomo Mitsui, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Nomura was ranked 19th in advising global mergers and
acquisitions for the quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It was the No. 10 underwriter for global equity
offering.  
 Goldman Sachs on July 20 said second-quarter profit plunged
82 percent to the lowest level since the end of 2008 as trading
revenue declined more than analysts estimated. Net income fell
to $613 million from $3.44 billion a year ago as overall revenue
dropped to 36 percent to $8.84 billion.  
 Credit Suisse, Switzerland’s second-largest bank, reported
a drop in profit at its investment banking unit in the second
quarter as trading revenue slumped amid Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis.  
 Pretax earnings at the investment banking division slid 53
percent while net income rose 1.4 percent to 1.59 billion francs
($1.5 billion), buoyed by a tax credit and gains on the
company’s own debt.  
 Nomura plans to offer research coverage for 600 companies
in the U.S. in a bid to boost revenue from the world’s biggest
equity market, it told investors in May. It has already
increased fixed-income division employees in the region to more
than 270 from 50 and is investing 250 billion yen to expand in
the U.S.  
 Watanabe in April told 550 managers at the company he aims
to transform the brokerage into a global financial firm.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Takahiko Hyuga  in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Nomura May Have Loss as Trading Slumps  
                       
                         
                           Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Pedestrians walk past the Nomura Holdings Inc. headquarters in Tokyo. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Pedestrians walk past the Nomura Holdings Inc. headquarters in Tokyo. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
