-- North Korea Nuclear Talks Must Wait to Avoid `Cold War' Divisions, Yu Says
-- Bill Austin
-- 2010-07-26T04:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/north-korea-nuclear-talks-must-wait-to-avoid-cold-war-divisions-yu-says.html

          
          
             South Korea’s Foreign Minister  Yu Myung Hwan  said resuming six-party nuclear talks with North
Korea too quickly risks deepening public divisions between China
and the U.S. and renewing “Cold War” behavior.  
 China and Russia have refrained from joining the U.S. in
supporting South Korea’s accusation that North Korea torpedoed
one of its warships in March. China has criticized U.S.-South
Korean naval drills aimed at deterring North Korea that began
yesterday.  
 “It’s quite an unfortunate tendency that people think
China and Russia are backing North Korea while the United States
and Japan support South Korea,” Yu said in a July 24 interview
in Hanoi, where he attended the  Asean  Regional Forum last week.
“It’s like a revival of a Cold War paradigm. It’s not the right
time to jump on the six-party talks.”  
 South Korea has held “very intensive” discussions with
China following the sinking, and the two countries share the
same goal of maintaining peace in the region, Yu said. Relations
with China are much more important than this one issue, Yu said.  
 South Korea is China’s fourth-biggest trading partner after
the U.S., European Union and Japan, with two-way commerce of
$156 billion  last year , Chinese commerce ministry figures show.
China-North Korea trade was $2.7 billion, the data show.  
 North’s Offer  
 North Korea, which has boycotted the nuclear forum since
December 2008, offered to return to the table after the United
Nations Security Council refrained from blaming it for the March
sinking of the Cheonan, which a South Korean-led international
panel said was caused by a torpedo attack by the North. North
Korea should take steps to show its sincerity, such as rejoining
the Nuclear Proliferation Treaty or disabling its Yongbyon
reactor, Yu said.  
 “Even China and Russia agreed that it’s not the right time
to jump start the six-party talks,” Yu said at the forum, which
was attended by all the participants in the nuclear discussions.
“We should have proof that North Korea is sincere enough to
negotiate on this nuclear issue.”  
 China said July 13 the disarmament forum is the only way to
achieve long-term peace on the Korean peninsula. While China
expressed a desire to start the talks in a July 23 meeting with
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  in Hanoi, there was a sense
of acknowledgment that the time isn’t yet ripe, an official who
traveled with Clinton told reporters that day, speaking on
condition of anonymity because the meeting was private.  
 North Korean Torpedo  
 The panel said in May that the Cheonan sank near the
disputed sea border after being attacked by a North Korean mini-
submarine. North Korea denies responsibility and the Security
Council statement adopted on July 9 didn’t name a culprit.  
 “The six-party talks is a useful platform to negotiate the
denuclearization of North Korea,” Yu said. “At the same time,
we shouldn’t let North Korea use it to earn time to divert
attention from the Cheonan incident.”  
 North Korea’s domestic agenda, including preparations for a
leadership transfer to Kim’s youngest son, may make it difficult
to engage in dialogue, Yu said. A plan to elect new leaders of
the ruling Korea Workers’ Party in early September may provide
some insight into the succession, he said.  
 North Korean Foreign Minister  Pak Ui Chun  argued at the
Asean Regional Forum that the U.S. and South Korea fabricated
the ship sinking to undermine his nation’s economic
reconstruction efforts, Yu said. Pak spoke about the
“tremendous results” of a campaign driven by Kim, who is
“traveling to every corner of the country, encouraging economic
programs,” he said.  
 Economic Failure  
 “That is clearly, they themselves recognizing the failure
of economic development, so they may wish to find some excuse,”
Yu said.  
 North Korea’s economy has been battered by the UN sanctions
imposed after it detonated atomic devices in 2006 and last year.
Kim’s regime, which has been reliant on outside handouts to feed
its 24 million people since the mid-1990s, faces more sanctions
by the U.S., targeted at government officials and the foreign
banks that help sustain illicit arms deals.  
 The U.S. and South Korea began naval drills off the Korean
peninsula’s east coast yesterday involving a nuclear-powered
aircraft carrier, prompting a North Korean threat to intensify
its nuclear program.  
 “They crossed the red line. Attacking a naval ship is
beyond the limit,” Yu said. “We should let them know that kind
of provocation will bear consequences.”  
 South Korea plans to modernize its military hardware
including improvements in submarine-detection equipment, some of
which dates from the 1980s, Yu said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Yu Myung Hwan, South Korea's foreign minister, speaks during an interview in Hanoi. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Zeb Eckert reports on joint naval exercises by the U.S. and South Korea that began yesterday off the eastern coast of the Korean Peninsula, maneuvers North Korea threatened to "counter."
     The drills involve 20 vessels and 200 aircraft, including the USS George Washington, a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier, and will be held until July 28. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
