-- Nuance, One51, Google, Tudou, `Paul the Octopus': Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-07-26T11:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/nuance-one51-google-tudou-paul-the-octopus-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             Vlingo Corp. , whose products help
mobile telephones recognize voice commands, sued rival  Nuance
Communications Inc.  alleging infringement of five U.S. patents.  
 Vlingo, based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, is seeking a
jury trial, an order to stop the infringement and unspecified
damages, according to a complaint filed July 22 in federal court
in Wilmington, Delaware.  
 “Nuance’s acts of infringement have caused harm, reparable
and irreparable, to Vlingo” and “Nuance will continue to
infringe” unless stopped by the court, the plaintiff’s lawyers
said in court papers.  
 Nuance, with $950.4 million in  sales  last fiscal year, sued
Vlingo in federal court in Texas in 2008, asserting its own
patent against Vlingo. That case was transferred to
Massachusetts in 2009 and is continuing with document gathering.  
 Richard Mack, a spokesman for Burlington, Massachusetts-
based Nuance, didn’t immediately return voice and e-mail
messages seeking comment on the Delaware lawsuit.  
 In dispute are patents 5,956,681; 6,563,911; 6,606,611;
6,671,354; and 6,813,603.  
 Vlingo is represented by  Paul J. Hayes  and  Dean G. Bostock 
from Boston’s  Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky & Popeo PC ,
and  Melanie K. Sharp  and  Erika R. Caesar  of  Young, Conaway,
Stargatt & Taylor LLP  of Wilmington.  
 The case is Vlingo Corp. v. Nuance, 10CV621 U.S. District
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 ASTI, Ismeca Settle Singapore Patent Infringement Suits  
 ASTI Holdings Ltd. , a Singapore-based maker of
semiconductor-manufacturing equipment, settled a patent-
infringement case with  Komax Holding AG’s  Ismeca Semiconductor,
Singapore’s Business Times  reported  July 23.  
 Semiconductor Technologies & Instruments, an ASTI division,
was accused of infringing Ismeca patents, the newspaper
reported.  
 Ismeca filed infringement cases in Singapore High Court and
the Kuala Lumpur High Court of Malaysia, according to the
Business Times.  
 Although financial terms of the settlement weren’t
disclosed, the suits were dismissed, and Semiconductor
Technologies can sell its can pack machines in the present
configuration with no bars, according to the newspaper.  
 One51’s Board to Be Queried About Patent Royalty Distribution  
 The board of One51, a Dublin-based investor, is facing
questions from a group of dissident shareholders about the
payment of 40 percent of a 4.96 million euros ($6.4 million)
patent royalty to nine company executives, the Irish Times
 reported  July 23.  
 The patent is for a paint-can lid developed by Protech
Performance, acquired by One51 in 2006 for $105 million euros,
according to the newspaper.  
 The dissident shareholders in the closely held company
want to know how the money was spent and why the payments
weren’t disclosed to them, according to the Irish Times.  
 They’ve also asked for names of those who benefitted
personally from the payments to be made public, the Irish Times
reported.  
 King and Purdue Settle Patent Fight Over Embeda Drug  
 King Pharmaceuticals Inc.  settled a fight with OxyContin
maker Purdue Pharma LP over patents on pain medicines that are
less likely to be abused by drug addicts, according to court
documents.  
 Alpharma Inc., which King bought in 2008, had asked a
federal court in Virginia that year to determine that its Embeda
drug doesn’t infringe Purdue’s patents on abuse-resistant pain
pills. Terms of the settlement weren’t disclosed by the court,
and Jack Howarth, a King spokesman, declined to comment.  
 King and Purdue were among drugmakers racing to develop
safer forms of the extended-release narcotic oxycodone that
would be harder to crush, chew or inject for a quicker high.
Corey Davis, an analyst with Jefferies & Co. in New York, said
the settlement means it’s likely King is licensing the Purdue
patents and could use them to block generic competition.  
 “Now we’d just like to see Embeda accelerate well beyond
the current approximate $50-$60 million sales run-rate,” Davis
said in a note to clients.  
 Sales of Embeda were $9 million in the first quarter,
Bristol, Tennessee-based King said in May. Chief Executive
Officer Brian Markison said sales have seen steady growth.  
 Libby Holman, a spokeswoman for Purdue, declined to comment
on the settlement.  
 OxyContin is Stamford, Connecticut-based Purdue’s biggest
drug, with more than $1 billion in annual sales. The closely
held company had been fighting lawsuits over the way it promoted
the drug’s safety. Purdue received regulatory approval in April
for a new formula of OxyContin that’s more difficult to abuse.  
 In a December 2009 filing, King said it had talks with
Purdue and that fear of Purdue’s patents hurt King by
“adversely affecting the marketplace’s acceptance of Embeda and
by decreasing Alpharma’s attractiveness to potential
investors.”  
 The complaint was filed in western Virginia where,
according to King, opioid painkillers such as OxyContin are
prescribed 500 percent more frequently than the national
average.  
 The case is Alpharma Inc. v. Purdue Pharma LP, 2008-50,
U.S. District Court for the Western District of Virginia
(Abington).  
 For more patent news, click here.  
 Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  
 BP Sues Six Former Staff for Misusing Confidential Information  
 BP Plc  is suing six former members of its energy team in
Singapore claiming they misused confidential information to help
rival Shenzhen Brightoil Group gain a “strategic advantage.”  
 The six, including Quek Chin Thean, formerly global head of
residues trading, and legal manager Simon Cheong, had “access
to and possessed intricate knowledge” of BP’s business and
commercial strategies and trade secrets, according to papers
filed with the Singapore High Court. Unauthorized disclosure of
the information would harm BP “immeasurably” and create a
“significant new competitor that is well aware of our trading
strategies,” BP said in the court filing.  
 Quek, who was “widely respected on the trading floor” and
seen “as one of the symbols for local leadership,” together
with Cheong orchestrated the mass departures at BP by offering
sign-on bonuses, according to court papers. Both men “actively
assisted” Brightoil, a direct rival, in setting up a competing
business while still in the London-based company’s employment,
BP said in its pleadings.  
 Standard Chartered Ltd., Citigroup Inc.,  Societe Generale
SA , Mercuria Energy Ltd.,  Noble Group Ltd.  and Trafigura Beheer
BV are hiring energy traders in Asia amid rising demand in the
region for coal, oil and natural gas. Singapore, which is the
Asian oil-trading hub, is offering tax breaks and incentives to
lure companies to boost hiring.  
 The six, including Paul John Bradshaw, head of operations
eastern hemisphere; trading manager John Foo; regional marine
sales manager Clarence Chang; and executive assistance Laura
Kuan, received a sign-on fee from Brightoil that constitutes a
“secret profit” and breaches their fiduciary and fidelity
duties and code of conduct to BP, according to court papers.  
 Quek, who began working at BP in 1992, also allegedly
recruited three U.S.-based colleagues to Brightoil, according to
the lawsuit. Foo, Bradshaw and Kuan also made unauthorized
downloads from BP’s computer networks, BP said.  
 “Investigations are ongoing,” said Lau Lu Ching, a
Singapore-based spokeswoman at BP, declining to comment further.
Quek and Foo didn’t answer calls to their mobile phones. Shirley
Kwok at Brightoil’s investor relations department in Hong Kong
declined comment. Brightoil isn’t named as a defendant in this
lawsuit. The six hadn’t filed any defense motions by July 23.  
 BP suspected the resignations were engineered after the
employees didn’t offer any reason for their departures, which
were in “quick succession,” according to the papers. The oil
company started an investigation and claims it discovered the
six had acted wrongfully and breached their duties to BP.
Evidence of e-mail correspondence between Quek and  Brightoil 
Chairman Raymond Sit Kwong Lam as well as Vice President Michael
Zhang indicated they planned on setting up a Singapore-based
oil-trading firm, BP said in the court papers.  
 The case is BP Singapore Pte vs Quek Chin Thean & Anor
S482/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  
 Copyright  
 Google Asked to Take Down Unauthorized Book Link on User’s Blog  
 Google Inc.  received a request from a southern publisher to
take down a copy of a book that was uploaded without
authorization.  
 The book, “Frost Moon,” is a fantasy novel by San Jose,
California-based computer scientist  Anthony G. Francis ,
published by the Bell Bridge imprint of Symrna, Georgia-based
 BelleBooks .  
 “Frost Moon” is available in a Kindle edition,  according
to  the  Amazon.com  website. According to the take-down letter,
sent to Google under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, the
blogger at  www.myebookswwrw.blogspot.com  was providing a link to
an “illegal pirated copy of the protected work.”  
 When accessed July 23, the site no longer contained a link
to “Frost Moon.” The bulk of the book titles to which links
were still provided fell into the categories of paranormal
fiction, paranormal romance, young adult and urban fantasy.  
 The site lists an e-mail address to which book requests can
be sent.  
 The  letter  sent to Google seeking the book’s removal was
posted on the  Chilling Effects website , a joint project of San
Francisco-based  Electronic Frontier Foundation , a digital rights
group, and seven law schools.  
 Tudou Must Pay Damages in Infringement Case, Shanghai Court Says  
 Tudou’s Tudou.com video-sharing website was ordered to pay
copyright-infringement damages to Shanghai Joy.cn Corp.,
Interfax-China reported July 23.  
 The Shanghai No. 2 Intermediate People’s Court found that
Tudou infringed Shanghai Joy’s copyrights through unauthorized
Web broadcasts of video clips of an animation series, according
to Interfax-China.  
 Although Tudou was put on notice it was infringing, the
company didn’t remove the offending clips for two months,
Interfax-China reported.  
 Shanghai Joy will receive 20,000 Chinese renminbi ($2,950)
in damages from Tudou, according to Interfax-China.  
 Russian Publisher Hit with $250 Million Infringement Verdict  
 In a case involving work by science fiction author
 Alexander Belyayev , the Moscow Arbitration Court ordered a
publisher to pay 7.6 billion rubles ($250 million) for copyright
infringement, the Moscow Times  reported .  
 The court found that the publishing house Astrel violated
the rights of the copyright holder, the publishing house Terra,
according to the newspaper.  
 AST, the parent corporation for Astrel, said it would
appeal the ruling and that Belyayev’s works were in the public
domain since it had been more than 50 years since Belyayev’s
death in 1942, according to the Moscow Times.  
 The suit was based on a Russian law that extended the
copyrights for authors who worked during World War II to 70
years after their death, the newspaper reported.  
 For more copyright news, click here.  
 Trademark  
 Merlin Entertainments’ ‘Paul the Octopus’ Trademarks Sought  
 Paul the Octopus, who resides at Merlin Entertainments
Group’s Sea Life Centre in Oberhausen, Germany, is the subject
of a growing number of trademark registrations. Paul won his
fame for correctly picking the winner of a number of matches
including the final at the World Cup competition in South
Africa.  
 While no applications to register his title had been filed
with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office by July 23, European
registration is sought for a number of variations on his name,
including “Octopus Paul,” “Polpo Octopus Paul,” and “Paul
die Krake” and “Paul das Orakel.” “Polpo” and “Krake”
are, respectively, the Italian and German words for octopus.  
 Several of the applications were filed by Sea Life
Deutschland GmbH and others were filed by individuals not
necessarily affiliated with the animal park.  
 Meanwhile, Paul has won fame in another area affected by IP
law.  Parry Gripp , the California author of such songs as
“ Surfin’ Taco ,” and “ Hamster on a Piano, Eating Popcorn ,”
has posted “ Paul the Octopus ,” a song in honor of the oracular
cephalopod, on Google Inc.’s YouTube video-sharing website.  
 For more trademark news, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        