-- Obama Defines Dysfunction With One Appointment: Kevin Hassett
-- Kevin Hassett
-- 2010-07-26T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/obama-defines-dysfunction-with-one-appointee-commentary-by-kevin-hassett.html

          
          
             If Democrats wonder why their
political fortunes have shifted so much, they should study the
appointment of  Craig Becker  to a body that adjudicates labor
disputes.  
 It captures everything that is wrong with the Obama
administration in a nutshell. Republicans should study the case
of Becker as well, as it illustrates everything that is wrong
with Washington. Democrats should run from Becker; Republicans
should run against him.  
 One of President  Barack Obama ’s first acts in office was
signing  Executive Order 13502 , which urged agencies to consider
requiring that contractors who do government work use unionized
workers. Construction workers everywhere have seen hard times in
this recession, but Obama gave preference to those who pay union
dues that eventually support Democrats’ election campaigns.  
 This wasn’t exactly what voters expected from the man who
promised to change the tone of Washington, but it got worse.
Obama launched a dizzying flurry of actions designed to reward
organized labor at the expense of everyone else.  
 Perhaps the low point was his attempt to appoint Becker to
the  National Labor Relations Board .  
 The NLRB is the panel responsible for issuing judgments in
disputes between workers and private-sector employers.
Specifically, the board is responsible for protecting the
bargaining and organizing rights of workers as defined by the
 National Labor Relations Act of 1935 , which sets limits on the
practices of unions and employers.  
 Union Lawyer  
 Becker, the former associate general counsel for the
Service Employees International Union, is an unusual choice to
be an impartial judge because of his pro-union views. In a 1998
article, Becker stated that “At first blush it might seem fair
to give workers the choice to remain unrepresented. But, in
granting this option, U.S. labor law grants employers a powerful
incentive to campaign for a vote of no representation.”  
 Naturally, these opinions alarm employers worried about
increased unionization through potential changes to statutes
regarding union election procedures.  
 Obama nominated Becker for the seat in April 2009. This
spring, Senate Republicans threatened a filibuster of the
nomination. Becker could have been confirmed if he simply held
on to the 60 votes that then existed in the Senate Democratic
caucus. The doubts surrounding his appointment were too much
even for Democrats. Obama gave Becker a temporary recess
appointment in March.  
 Ethics Pledge  
 Controversy erupted when Becker seemed to violate an ethics
statement made during his confirmation hearing. Becker pledged
to abide by an ethics rule stating that he would “not for a
period of two years from the date of my appointment participate
in any particular matter involving specific parties that is
directly and substantially related to my former employer.”
Since then, he turned around and began weighing in on cases
involving local chapters of the SEIU.  
 In one  case , dealing with an SEIU chapter at a California
hospital, the NLRB decided to administer nothing more than a
wrist slap to a local that attempted to intimidate workers
opposed to the union.  
 In another  case , the NLRB sided with an SEIU local in
deciding that interns and residents at hospitals aren’t
“students,” a ruling that may lead to a wave of unionization
at hospitals.  
 Absolved of Wrongdoing  
 Becker argued that he didn’t need to recuse himself because
the “SEIU is a separate and distinct legal entity from the many
local labor organizations affiliated with the SEIU.” NLRB
Inspector General David Berry concurred with that assessment,
ruling that Becker didn’t violate his ethics pledge when voting
on cases involving SEIU locals.  
 Becker has been absolved of any wrongdoing, and the ruling
is supported by longstanding practice at the NLRB. The legal
reasoning is, however, questionable.  
 For example, the SEIU’s own  constitution  implies that the
locals are intricately woven into the parent organization. Among
other things, the parent has jurisdiction over the local unions,
can direct an examination of its books, the president of the
organization can direct local unions or appoint a trustee to
take charge of it. A local union isn’t even allowed to pay bills
before it mails its monthly membership check to union
headquarters.  
 Moreover, the ruling violates the spirit at least of
 federal ethics  laws, which dictate that executive appointees
endeavor to avoid even the appearance that they are violating
ethical standards, and the appearance should be “determined
from the perspective of a reasonable person.”  
 Problematic Partisan  
 If Obama wanted to find a place for someone as talented but
problematic as Becker, he easily could have appointed him to a
position elsewhere in the administration where he took on more
partisan activities. But assigning him to be an impartial judge
is a punch to the nose of anyone who cares about justice and
fairness.  
 In Becker’s place, Obama could have appointed some little-
known ideologue who would have had the same impact without the
potential conflicts of interest. Instead, he chose to reward his
union buddies, and antagonize his adversaries.  
 How sad that the Obama who was so inspirational in 2008 has
become so partisan that he would appoint an SEIU attorney to
adjudicate cases involving the union’s local chapters, and hide
behind an ethics report that violates any standard of common
sense.  
 ( Kevin Hassett , director of economic-policy studies at the
American Enterprise Institute, is a Bloomberg News columnist. He
was an adviser to Republican Senator John McCain in the 2008
presidential election. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Kevin Hassett at 
 khassett@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        