-- Obama Says Campaign Finance-Disclosure Measure Merits Vote in U.S. Senate
-- Roger Runningen
-- 2010-07-26T19:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/obama-says-campaign-finance-disclosure-measure-merits-vote-in-u-s-senate.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  put his
weight behind an effort by Senate Democrats to try and force a
vote on legislation requiring more disclosure of campaign
contributions.  
 Obama criticized Republicans, who he said have been
stalling the measure. The vote is “about how much influence
special interests should have over our democracy,” the
president said in remarks at the White House.  
 The bill would require corporations and unions to disclose
their spending on political advertising, including donations to
third-party groups that air advertisements, such as the  U.S.
Chamber of Commerce .  
 Political advocacy groups “are already forming and
building war chests for tens of millions of dollars to influence
the fall elections,” Obama said.  
 The legislation was introduced by Senate Democrats, led by
Rules Committee Chairman  Charles Schumer  of New York, in
response to a U.S. Supreme Court decision in January that
overturned a decades-old ban on companies using general-treasury
money to run campaign ads supporting or opposing a candidate.  
 The House passed a similar version, 219-206, last month,
with just two Republican votes.  
 Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky said
the legislation is designed to benefit Democrats.  
 The measure “seeks to protect unpopular Democrat
politicians by silencing their critics and exempting their
campaign supporters from an all-out attack on the First
Amendment,” McConnell said in a statement.  
 Corporations and Unions  
 Corporations and unions seeking to support candidates had
previously been required to spend through regulated political
action committees. Companies are still banned from contributing
directly to candidates.  
 The bill would affect all political advertising, including
issue ads that are designed to elect particular candidates
without directly asking voters to support or oppose them.  
 Business trade groups, such as the Chamber of Commerce,
would be required for the first time to reveal the companies
that fund their political ads. Union-funded organizations
running ads for or against candidates also would have to
disclose their donors.  
 The measure would bar such political spending by companies
with more than $10 million in government contracts and
institutions that haven’t repaid money from the Troubled Asset
Relief Program passed in 2008.  
 Foreign-owned corporations also would be barred from
political spending, though the ban wouldn’t apply to their U.S.
subsidies’ political action committees.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Obama Campaign Finance  
                       
                         
                           Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.S. President Barack Obama arrives to make a statement in the Rose Garden of the White House in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Monday, July 26, 2010. Obama put his weight behind an effort by Senate Democrats to try and force a vote on legislation requiring more disclosure of campaign contributions. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.S. President Barack Obama arrives to make a statement in the Rose Garden of the White House in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Monday, July 26, 2010. Obama put his weight behind an effort by Senate Democrats to try and force a vote on legislation requiring more disclosure of campaign contributions. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
