-- MTR's Octopus Sold Personal Data About 1.97 Million Users, RTHK Reports
-- Debra Mao
-- 2010-07-26T10:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/octopus-sold-personal-client-data-in-hong-kong-for-5-6-million-rthk-says.html

          
          
             Hong Kong’s  Octopus Holdings Ltd. ,
provider of electronic-payment services, said it has been paid
HK$44 million since January 2006 for providing personal
information on clients, Radio Television Hong Kong  reported ,
citing Prudence Chan, the company’s chief executive officer.  
 Octopus provided 1.97 million customers’ personal
particulars to six companies, including Cigna Worldwide Life
Insurance Co., the broadcaster said today, citing Chan. Octopus
will not give personal data to other companies in the future,
RTHK said, quoting Chan.  
 Cigna is cooperating “fully” with the Hong Kong privacy
commissioner and said “the highest controls and standards have
always been maintained with the limited customer personal data
provided by” Octopus, the insurer said in a statement. The
privacy commissioner held a hearing into the matter today.  
 The biggest  Octopus shareholder , MTR Corp., said the card
company needs to take the issue seriously to reassure the public.
 MTR , which operates Hong Kong’s underground trains and develops
property, owns 57.4 percent of Octopus, according to the Octopus
website.  
 Octopus must “fully cooperate with the relevant bodies,
taking solid steps to eliminate the concern in the minds of the
people,” Diana Yue, an MTR spokeswoman, said. Octopus is “a
separate company and is operating independently,” Yue said.  
 Octopus cards are used like electronic cash by millions of
Hong Kong people making purchases such as MTR tickets, fast-food
meals and convenience store products. Customers swipe the card
over a scanner to pay and top up the cards as necessary by
paying cash at some businesses that accept the cards.  
 Octopus didn’t immediately respond to e-mailed questions.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marco Lui  in Hong Kong at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        