-- Oil Trades Near $79 for Fourth Day as Equity Gains Compete With Stockpiles
-- Christian Schmollinger
-- 2010-07-27T03:09:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/oil-little-changed-near-79-as-u-s-equities-rise-fuel-supplies-may-gain.html

          
          
             Crude oil traded near $79 a barrel
for a fourth day in New York as concerns over U.S. fuel supply
gains outweighed rising equity markets.  
 Oil settled unchanged at $78.98 yesterday after the
Commerce Department said home purchases climbed 24 percent in
June to an annual pace of 330,000, boosting the outlook for an
economic recovery. U.S. gasoline and distillate supplies rose
last week, according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 “The economic numbers in general were quite positive
lately,” said  Serene Lim , a commodity strategist at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Singapore. “We’re still
seeing builds in the gasoline inventories which suggests that
demand is increasing year-on-year but not as much as expected.
So the positive news counterbalanced by the negative has given
us a really range-bound market.”  
 Crude oil for September delivery traded at $78.96 a barrel,
down 2 cents, in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange at 11:06 a.m. Singapore time. Yesterday was the first
day since September that oil closed unchanged. Futures have
gained 16 percent in the past year.  
 Gasoline supplies probably climbed 300,000 barrels last
week, according to the Bloomberg News survey before an Energy
Department report tomorrow. Stockpiles of distillate fuel,
including heating oil and diesel, increased by 2 million barrels,
the survey showed.  
 Crude oil inventories probably fell 1.75 million barrels
last week, according to the survey.  
 Gasoline Demand  
 Fuel demand has still not returned to the same levels as
before the economic crisis of 2008. Gasoline  supplies  delivered
by refiners, a four-week average basis, reached a peak of 9.7
million barrels a day in the week of July 27, 2007. They topped
out at 9.5 million in August 2008.  
 For the week of July 16, the amount of the motor fuel
delivered was at 9.4 million barrels a day.  
 Swings in oil prices have declined to their lowest level
since May as traders are more cautious of the market direction,
said ANZ’s Lim.  
 Crude’s 30-day historical volatility, a measure of how much
oil has fluctuated around its average price, has dropped to 26.8
percent today, according to Bloomberg data. That’s the lowest
since May 5 when it was at 28.2 percent.  
 “There are very contradicting economic numbers” said Lim.
“Investors have become so short-term that there is some
holdback in investing in risky assets. Positive news today is
gone tomorrow so there is no compelling reason for a convincing
direction on oil prices.”  
 U.S. Growth  
 The U.S. economy probably expanded at a slower pace in the
second quarter as the trade deficit swelled, economists said
before reports this week.  
 Gross domestic product rose at a 2.5 percent annual pace
after increasing at a 2.7 percent rate in the first quarter,
according to the median estimate of 79 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before a July 30 Commerce Department report.  
 European Union governments imposed their toughest sanctions
yet on Iran, backing U.S. efforts to force the country to halt
uranium enrichment and stop any pursuit of nuclear weapons
capability. The sanctions include a ban on new investment in or
equipment sales to Iran’s oil and natural-gas industries.  
 Brent crude for September settlement traded at $77.51 a
barrel, up 1 cent, on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange at
10:56 a.m. Singapore time. Yesterday, the contract rose 5 cents
to settle at $77.50.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        