-- London Olympics Offer $1 Billion Opportunity for Small Business
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-07-26T23:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/london-olympics-offer-1-billion-opportunity-for-u-k-s-small-businesses.html

          
          
             With two years to go to the  London
2012 Olympic Games , about 700 million pounds ($1.1 billion) of
contracts are available for small companies,  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc  said.  
 “Down the supply chain, there are still a lot of
opportunities,”  Chris Daniels , head of the bank’s London 2012
business team, said in an interview. “A little less than 700
million pounds is still up for grabs.”  
 There are contracts available for companies from all over
the country, in sectors as varied as human resources, artistic
performance, sports equipment, security, retail and
merchandising, Daniels said.  
 Preparations for the London Olympics remain on schedule
even as the U.K. goes through its biggest budget reductions
since the Second World War, Games organizers said.  
 “We’re in a good position,” Sebastian Coe, chairman of
the  London Organizing Committee of the Olympic Games and
Paralympic Games , said on a conference call on July 23.
“Infrastructure and revenue-wise, we’re in very good shape. It
shows the confidence of the British people in what we’re
doing.”  
 The local operating committee is halfway through its
merchandising contracts to make 75 different items, such as
cufflinks and mascots. Contracts have been issued to around 40
companies, according to Lloyds.  
 The two-year countdown to the Olympics was marked last
weekend with 975 events across the U.K., ranging from sports to
dance and the arts.  
 Olympic Project  
 Today, Olympic track gold medalist  Michael Johnson  will
sprint on a temporary track in the Olympic stadium in east
London. Former National Basketball Association player  John Amaechi  will be shooting into a temporary hoop in the arena that
will host the sport.  
 “The Olympic project is as valid today, as the economy is
at a low ebb, as it was when we won the bid and the economy was
at a high-water mark, and I would argue that it is even more
important now,” Coe said. “It was always our goal to deliver a
sustainable and responsibly delivered Games. That hasn’t
changed.”  
 The London organizing committee has an operational budget
of 2 billion pounds, most of which will be raised from the
private sector. Sponsors include Coca-Cola Co., Visa Inc., BT
Group Plc and Lloyds TSB.  
 “In many ways, the Olympics are the only one good news
story in town,” Daniels said. The Olympics aren’t just
benefiting companies throughout 2012, but also beyond that, he
added.  
 Opportunities  
 “If we can do the Olympic Games and the Commonwealth
Games, when Rio comes around in 2016 or the 2014 Winter Games in
Sochi, top companies are in pole position to win contracts
abroad,” Daniels said. “We’re seeing that already.”  
 Information about business opportunities is posted on the
London 2012 website. Daniels said more than 120,000 businesses
have registered with  CompeteFor , which is the main gateway to
London 2012 contracts.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Chairman of the London Organizing Committee of the Olympic Games and Paralympic Games Sebastian Coe. Photographer: Michael Crabtree/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
