-- Hong Kong Must Start Deliverable Forwards to Spur Use of Yuan, Calyon Says
-- Andrea Wong
-- 2010-07-26T03:26:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/hong-kong-must-start-deliverable-forwards-to-spur-use-of-yuan-calyon-says.html

          
          
             Hong Kong should start a yuan
deliverable forwards market to boost its ability to compete with
Shanghai in renminbi trade and investment, said  Frances Cheung ,
a senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB.  
 Central banks in China and Hong Kong agreed on July 19
there will be no restrictions on companies buying or selling
yuan in Hong Kong, subject to banks holding enough renminbi to
provide liquidity. Since then, there have “reportedly been only
a few isolated” forward trades, and there “are no quotes and
prices on the market yet,” according to Cheung.  
 “Right now, companies are not willing to settle trade in
the yuan, mainly because they cannot hedge their risks,” said
Hong Kong-based Cheung. “The deliverable forwards market will
make them less vulnerable to currency volatility.”  
 Hong Kong and Shanghai are battling for market share in
developing yuan products as China seeks to globalize its
currency. Shanghai should become the pricing center for yuan-
denominated financial products, Zhang Jianhua, director of the
research department at the People’s Bank of China, said
yesterday.  
 Forwards are agreements in which assets are bought and sold
at current prices for future delivery. Unlike non-deliverable
forwards, deliverable contracts are settled in yuan.  
 Yuan deposits in Hong Kong rose 4.7 percent in May to 84.7
billion yuan ($12.5 billion), Hong Kong Monetary Authority
figures show. The yuan has gained 0.7 percent in the past four
weeks after the central bank said on June 19 it will allow
greater flexibility in the exchange rate, ending a two-year
dollar peg.  
 Capital Account  
 Under the agreement signed on July 19, cross-border flows
of yuan will remain limited to trade settlements. The maximum
amount individuals can convert from their Hong Kong dollar
deposit accounts per day is 20,000 yuan.  
 Hong Kong and China should set up channels to allow yuan
issued in the city to flow back to China, the Hong Kong Standard
today cited K.C. Chan, Hong Kong’s  secretary  for financial
services and the treasury, as saying.  
 While Shanghai has ready access to yuan funds, Hong Kong is
dependent on trade flows to boost its currency pool. If China
allows free movement of capital, companies might be encouraged
to keep funds in Hong Kong without being worried about their
ability to repatriate funds back into the onshore market,
according to Cheung.  
 “China’s capital account is still closed after the
agreement,” she said. “I think in a few years’ time, the
central government may allow cross-border money flow, and then
we’ll have a better-developed offshore market.”  
 Yuan settlement of trade between Hong Kong and China more
than doubled to 7.2 billion yuan in May, compared with as much
as 3 billion yuan in both March and April, the  HKMA  said last
month.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrea Wong  in Hong Kong at  at
 awong268@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Pauline Loong, politics and policy risk analyst at CIMB Securities in Hong Kong, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about the trade relationship between China and the U.S. 
     Loong also discusses China's currency policy. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
