-- ONGC Said to Plan $5 Billion Spending to Boost Gas Output 60% in Six Years
-- Rakteem Katakey
-- 2010-07-26T10:28:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/ongc-said-to-plan-5-billion-spending-to-boost-gas-output-60-in-six-years.html

          
          
             Oil & Natural Gas Corp. , India’s
biggest energy explorer, plans to spend a record $5 billion to
develop gas fields to boost output by almost 60 percent in six
years, two people with direct knowledge of the matter said.  
 The New Delhi-based explorer sought permission from the
country’s oil and gas regulator on July 16 to invest the funds
in nine natural gas discoveries off India’s east coast to
produce 35 million cubic meters a day by 2016, one person said,
declining to be identified before the  Directorate General of
Hydrocarbons  approves the plan.  
 The amount is triple ONGC’s planned spending on its largest
oil field and follows the government’s decision in May to double
the price at which the explorer sells gas. India is ramping up
gas output at the fastest pace in the world, according to BP
Plc’s 2010 Statistical Review of World Energy, after companies
including Reliance Industries Ltd. discovered new fields.  
 “ONGC has been discovering new reserves for a while but
the concern is being able to convert them to production,” said
 Rohit Ahuja , a Mumbai-based analyst with Centrum Broking in
Mumbai. “The company is looking to address this with the very
good discoveries they have in the east coast.”  
 The producer of almost 25 percent of the crude oil used by
India, Asia’s third-largest energy-consuming nation, is starting
new fields at home as output declined at aging areas off the
west coast. Reserves added in fields operated by ONGC in the
year ended March was the equivalent of 82.98 million metric tons,
the highest in the past 20 years, the explorer said April 26.  
 ONGC Discoveries  
 ONGC made 21 discoveries in the year, according to a May 28
 statement  on its website.  
 The  shares  fell 0.4 percent to close at 1,255.25 rupees in
Mumbai trading. The stock has gained 6.4 percent this year
compared with the 3.2 percent increase in the benchmark
 Sensitive Index  of the Bombay Stock Exchange.  
 The state-run explorer produced 61.6 million cubic meters a
day of gas from its fields in India in the year ended March 30,
according to data on the oil ministry’s website. ONGC plans to
produce gas from the discoveries for 10 years, the person said.  
 D.K. Pande , director of exploration at ONGC, and  S.K. Srivastava , the director general of hydrocarbons, couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  
 ONGC will increase spending by 8 percent to 270 billion
rupees ($5.8 billion) in the year ending March 2011 to boost oil
and gas output in Asia’s third-largest energy-consuming nation,
 D.K. Sarraf , the company’s director of finance said April 15.  
 Oil Production  
 The explorer’s crude oil output in the year declined 2
percent to 26.46 million metric tons and gas increased 1 percent
to 25.6 billion cubic meters, according to the May 28 statement.  
 India’s government doubled the price of gas ONGC sells from
fields awarded to it before 1999 to 6,818 rupees per thousand
cubic meters from 3,200 rupees, Information Minister  Ambika Soni 
said May 19. That will add 50 billion rupees to ONGC’s annual
revenue, Chairman  R.S. Sharma  said that day.  
 ONGC approved spending of 71.33 billion rupees ($1.5
billion) over four years to increase oil output from its biggest
field off the coast of Mumbai, the company said in a statement
in January 2009. The gas discoveries in the east coast are part
of the company’s biggest gas field and lie adjacent to the KG-D6
area, operated by Reliance Industries Ltd.  
 As of last September, Reliance had invested $5.8 billion of
a planned $8.8 billion in its field, P.M.S Prasad, head of the
company’s oil and gas business, said then. Reliance plans to
produce 80 million cubic meters from the Bay of Bengal deposit.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        