-- Onyx Says Carfilzomib Slows Cancer Development in Hard-to-Treat Myeloma
-- Rob Waters
-- 2010-07-26T20:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/onyx-says-carfilzomib-slows-cancer-development-in-hard-to-treat-myeloma.html

          
          
             Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc.  said its
experimental drug helped about a quarter of patients with
advanced blood cancer whose illness hadn’t been halted by other
treatments.  
 Onyx gained 21 percent in Nasdaq Stock Market composite
trading today, the most in more than three years, after
announcing results of the trial on carfilzomib. The study found
24 percent of patients with multiple myeloma had at least a
partial response, and their improvement lasted a median of 7.4
months, the Emeryville, California-based company said in a
statement. The research followed 266 patients, Onyx said.  
 Multiple myeloma causes uncontrolled growth of blood plasma
cells and can lead to bone tumors that hinder the body’s ability
to make infection-fighting cells. Chief Executive Officer N.
 Anthony Coles  said the company expects to apply to the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration by year’s end for accelerated approval
to market the drug, and may be selling it as soon as next year.  
 “This is a population suffering from a disease that is
uniformly fatal,” Coles said on a conference call with
analysts. “These patients have exhausted all other therapies
and represent an important population in need of” new options.  
 Onyx rose $4.54, or 21 percent, to $26.04 at 4:00 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Exchange trading. The shares have
declined 3.3 percent since the beginning of the year.  
 Strong Results  
 “The results appear strong, exceeding what our consultants
generally thought was the bar to support an FDA filing and
approval,” said  Philip Nadeau , a Cowen & Co. analyst in New
York, in a note to clients.  
 Multiple myeloma  is the second-most-common type of blood
cancer. More than 50,000 people in the U.S. and 180,000
worldwide are living with the disease, which is diagnosed in
about 86,000 new patients each year, the company said.  
 Onyx acquired carfilzomib with its November  purchase  of
South San Francisco-based Proteolix Inc. for $276 million. In a
Dec. 3 telephone interview, Coles estimated the market to treat
the “sickest of the sick” myeloma patients at about $1 billion
annually.  
 The latest results validate the Proteolix acquisition,
which may produce other products for the company as well, he
said on today’s call.  
 “Our commitment is to establish Onyx as an emerging
oncology leader,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        