-- Morgan Stanley Is Too Cheap for Me to Sell: Alice Schroeder
-- Alice Schroeder
-- 2010-07-26T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/morgan-stanley-is-too-cheap-for-me-to-sell-commentary-by-alice-schroeder.html

          
          
             I don’t work for  Morgan Stanley 
anymore, but I do own its stock, and since 2010 have been able
to sell now that it’s unrestricted. Too bad the shares trade at
less than half the price at which I acquired most of them,
meaning I face the question of whether to cut my losses or hope
the firm gets its act together.  
 This quarter’s blowout earnings were a marked departure
from the past few years. Shareholders’ expectations have been
raised by some bit of good news, then dashed time after time.
Could this be the turning point?  
 I thought of all the reasons to be skeptical, then started
calling the brain trust of fellow former managing directors who
fled or were pushed out of the firm in recent years to see how
they felt about Morgan Stanley’s prospects at $27 a share. Their
answers were disheartening.  
 One person had reason to be smug because he’d put on a
costless collar at $78 that locked in his gains. Another had
left in 2006 and sold everything right away. I did find one
former MD who still owns a much bigger gob of stock than I do,
which made me feel better. At 1.4 times tangible book value, we
agreed it just seems too cheap to sell.  
 Even so, keeping the stock requires justifying the
opportunity cost. On the plus side, with low-cost funding and
its competitors weakened, the firm should be able to rake in
money. On the minus side,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . is cheaper at
1.3 times tangible book.  
 Executing Plans  
 Perhaps the bigger issue is that Morgan Stanley, a once-
storied firm, has squandered so many advantages so often that
you can’t help but worry whether it can execute even modestly
ambitious plans.  
 From the first week of 2002 to the end of 2009, Morgan
Stanley increased its book value per share by 35 percent. Yet
the stock declined 36 percent during that period.  
 In the eyes of many alumni, the stock’s woes stem from
Morgan Stanley’s failed merger with Dean Witter 13 years ago. I
believe that, considered in the larger picture, Morgan Stanley
merged with Dean Witter because it didn’t know its strengths --
and still doesn’t.  
 For years, Morgan Stanley has tried to be all things to all
people. The firm has expanded into asset management, retail
brokerage, high net-worth  wealth management , real estate, prime
brokerage, derivatives, merchant banking, and proprietary
trading, to name a few. Some of these are natural extensions of
its core institutional business. At heart, though, there is a
subtle arrogance in the belief that Morgan Stanley can be best
in class in so many areas.  
 ‘World Wise’  
 I worked at the firm as a managing director until 2003 and
remained an advisory director until 2009. Throughout, the
arrogance came through in a host of tiny ways that are
distressingly obvious only with hindsight: among others, the
firm’s quest to foster the “brand,” to be a “thought
leader,” to be the “ world wise ” firm most known for its
global prowess, to be at the cutting edge of technology. These
ideas translate into profits, if at all, in a vague and indirect
manner, though they are extremely self-flattering.  
 The belief that one firm could be all things to all clients
spawned an organization of Byzantine complexity. The once-nimble
Morgan Stanley ended up being late to every party: from de-
mutualizations of huge insurance companies to selling
derivatives, we always seemed to arrive in the footsteps of
Goldman Sachs, once they had already plucked the low-hanging
fruit. Today, after thousands of layoffs, the firm is re-
staffing sales, trading and research, restocking business units
it recently downplayed and hiring people it fired a year ago.  
 Around Corners  
 Yes, the U.S. had the worst financial crisis in decades, and
yes, Morgan Stanley took a $9.4 billion write-off, and almost
collapsed. The trouble is that seeing around the next corner
isn’t one of the firm’s strengths.  
 This lack of foresight makes the current emphasis on wealth
management of concern. Morgan Stanley’s foray into retail with
Dean Witter is widely accepted as having almost destroyed it.
There’s no way to know what would have happened without the
divisive leadership of former Chief Executive Officer Phil Purcell, but in a sense we’re about to find out. The strategy of
expanding wealth management swims against today’s tide of
diminished individual wealth and waning willingness to risk what
wealth there is.  
 Perhaps this will prove worthwhile if the tide turns, and I
hope it does. But is it optimal for an investment bank to seek
the conflicts and reputational risk that go with retail
distribution? G.K. Chesterton wrote that you should never take a
 fence  down without knowing why it was put up.  
 Two Arguments  
 Two strong arguments in favor of hewing to  investment
banking  without retail distribution lie close at hand -- in
Morgan Stanley’s own history, and Goldman Sachs.  
 “Why can’t we be more like Goldman Sachs?” has been a
mantra at Morgan Stanley for years. The question is rhetorical;
as everyone knows, the answer is culture.  
 At the same time that Morgan Stanley shareholders suffered,
Goldman increased its book value 85 percent and its stock rose
82 percent.  
 Goldman gets accused of taking unfair advantage of
relationships with clients, but if so that’s partly because it
has a simple, focused business model. Goldman makes itself
indispensable by doing things for customers who can pay a lot,
and profits however it can from dealing with them. You can love
or hate Goldman, but no one can deny that it has the efficiency
of a beehive. This is the one firm that still behaves like a
partnership, albeit one that bets with other people’s money.  
 Going for No. 2  
 The last time Morgan Stanley earnings blew out the lights
was the first quarter 2007. “It doesn’t get better than this,”
was the New York Times summary. I hope the Times wasn’t being
prescient.  
 Morgan Stanley, I believe, does have the talent and
wherewithal to repair its business and at least remain a
respected No. 2. To regain the leader spot, though, it would
have to recreate a long-vanished partnership culture. That seems
almost inconceivable. And so, after thinking through all of
this, I diversified my too-cheap-to-sell bet on Morgan Stanley
by buying the even-cheaper shares of Goldman Sachs. It’s always
good to side with the winner.  
   Alice Schroeder , author of “The Snowball:  Warren Buffett 
and the Business of Life” and a former managing director at
Morgan Stanley, is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Alice Schroeder at  aliceschroeder@ymail.com   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        