-- Odorless Undies, Beer Sales Surge in Japan Summer
-- Monami Yui
-- 2010-07-26T06:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/hot-japan-summer-to-rain-pennies-from-heaven-on-retailers-deutsche-says.html

          
          
             Japanese retailers are headed for
hot summer sales of cheap beer and non-smell underwear, driven
by above-average temperatures and consumers with fatter wallets,
according to Deutsche Bank AG’s  Takahiro Kazahaya .  
 Japan’s  Meteorological Agency  is forecasting the hottest
summer in 100 years globally after a heat wave snaked into Tokyo
last week via North America and Europe. Temperatures in the
capital exceeded 95 degrees Fahrenheit (36 degrees Celsius),
providing a boon for breweries including  Kirin Holdings Co. ,
garment makers and air conditioner manufacturers, Kazahaya said.  
 “Higher temperatures are like pennies from heaven for
retailers,” the Tokyo-based analyst said. “Consumers’
appetites have improved.”  
 Japan’s weather agency says most of the nation has more
than a 60 percent probability of hotter than average
temperatures over the next month. When the temperature is 1
degree Celsius above average in the July-September period,
consumer spending expands by 433.3 billion yen ($4.9 billion)
and the gross domestic product by 345.6 billion yen, according
to  Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute .  
 A heat wave in July 2004, which saw Tokyo temperatures rise
to a record  39.5 Celsius , drove monthly retail sales up 0.7
percent, according to the Trade Ministry.  
 To take advantage of seasonal sales, retailers are
promoting a range of new products from cheaper beers to smell-
absorbing underwear originally designed for astronauts. Air
conditioner makers are ramping up production before the
government ends subsidies on eco-friendly products this year.  
 Non-Alcoholic Beer  
 Consumer confidence  in June rose for the sixth straight
month to the highest level since September 2007. Summer bonuses
increased about 0.8 percent this year, reversing a 17 percent
decline in 2009, the Nikkei newspaper reported, citing a survey
conducted by Nikkei Inc. and Nikkei Research Inc. The average
summer bonus before taxes was 701,687 yen ($8,000), according to
the survey.  
 Japan’s major brewers are churning out non-alcohol and no-
malt beers to tap into demand for cheaper beverages.  Kirin
Holdings Co. , the nation’s biggest beermaker, will double the
annual sales target of its non-alcoholic “Yasumu Hi No Alc.
0.00%” drink after an initial annual target of 400,000 cases
was achieved within about two months after its release in April.  
 No-Malt Beer  
 “New types of beers have been expanding the market,” said
 Naomi Takagi , an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “People who
can’t drink alcohol such as drivers and pregnant women can have
a taste of beer.”  
 No-malt beers, which are cheaper than regular brews, rose
to more than 30 percent of total beer shipments for the first
time in June, according to the Brewers Association of Japan and
the Brewers Council of Happoshu Taxation.  Asahi Breweries Ltd. ,
Japan’s second-largest, said it plans to launch the first non-
calorie beer in the world next month.  
 Clothing retailers will also benefit from higher
temperatures, said Deutsche Bank’s Kazahaya. “Consumers are
especially keen to buy casual wear including underwear” in hot
weather, he said.  
 Goldwin Inc. , the marketer of Speedo swimsuits in Japan,
developed its MXP underwear for astronauts with the Japan
Aerospace Exploration Agency. The shirt, which is made with
eucalyptus fiber and nanotechnology, can neutralize sources of
odors such as ammonia and acetic acid.  
 Uniqlo, Wacoal  
 Sales of the products are beating projections, said Hiroshi
Katsuno, manager of Goldwin’s Maxifresh underwear group.  
 “Data from our experiments show that one shirt can absorb
smell coming from four liters of sweat,” he said.  
 The Uniqlo chain, owned by Fast Retailing Co., has increased
sales of sweat-absorbing, quick-drying underwear even as overall
sales slowed in the three months through May. The underwear was
developed with Toray Industries Inc., a Tokyo-based synthetic-
fiber maker.  Wacoal Holdings Corp . is marketing a new brassiere
made of mesh material designed to keep the body cool and dry.  
 “Sales of summer underwear at Wacoal were sluggish because
of cool weather until May,” said Nomura Holdings Inc. analyst
 Yoshimi Kamata , who covers apparel companies in Japan. “But
it’s likely to take off, if the weather heats up.”  
 Travel agencies are also expecting a sales boost from the
stronger yen. Japan’s currency has appreciated 7.6 percent
against the dollar, from April 2 when it reached its lowest
level this year. Against the euro, it has strengthened 16
percent from the year’s weakest level on January 11.  
 Overseas Travelers  
 At  H.I.S. Co. , Japan’s largest publicly traded travel
agency, the number of customers who purchased travel products
for July and August departures jumped 11 percent as of July 1
from a year earlier, said Manabu Shimizu, a company spokesman.  
 A government incentive to offer discounts on eco-friendly
products is helping air conditioner makers.  Daikin Industries
Ltd. , the world’s second-biggest supplier, raised annual
production for the year ending March 2011 by 16 percent to about
3.3 million units from a year earlier, said spokeswoman Saki
Hirata.  
 Consumers can get a subsidy of 36,000 yen on each household
appliance if the product meets green-technology standards. The
program for air conditioners is due to expire this year.  
 “There is talk of the government extending its stimulus
measures, but we expect the effects of stimulus to wear off and
consumption momentum to decline,” Chiwoong Lee, senior
economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in Tokyo, wrote in a
report dated today. The hot weather boost to consumer spending
is not sustainable, Lee said.  
 “The question now is whether retailers have the capability
to ride the summer wind,” said Deutsche’s Hayakawa.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Cans of Kirin Holdings Co., right, are displayed for sale at a supermarket in Tokyo. Photographer: Kiyoshi Ota/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
