-- Movie Financier Kavanaugh to Consider Relativity Studio IPO After Deals
-- Ronald Grover
-- 2010-07-26T17:50:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/movie-financier-kavanaugh-considers-ipo-for-relativity-media-film-studio.html

          
          
                  July 26 (Bloomberg) - Relativity Media LLC, Hollywood
financier  Ryan Kavanaugh ’s film production company, will
consider a public stock offering after striking a deal to add
distribution and marketing capabilities.  
 “Down the road, we’ll be looking at several options, one
of which could be a public offering,” Kavanaugh said in an
interview, without providing a timetable.  
 Relativity, based in West Hollywood, California, is
acquiring the 45-person marketing and distribution staff of
 Liberty Media Corp. ’s Starz Overture film studio, which is
closing. Relativity is financing or producing 10 films in the
next year and plans 20 to 30 annually, according to a July 6
statement from the company.  
 “We now have the capacity to handle a film from inception
through each stage of its release in a manner commensurate with
a major studio,” said Kavanaugh, whose closely held company
finances movies for General Electric Co.’s  NBC Universal  and
Sony Pictures Entertainment.  
 The Overture deal, which also gave Relativity rights to
three unreleased films, follows a July 6 accord to provide films
to  Netflix Inc. , the mail-order and online film rental service.
Under the agreement, Relativity bypassed traditional pay TV
networks in favor of a new online revenue source.  
 With partner Elliot Management Corp., a New York-based
hedge fund, Kavanaugh has built Relativity’s production after
initially starting as a financier. In April 2009, the company
signed a multi-year agreement giving  Lions Gate Entertainment
Corp.  rights to distribute as many as five pictures a year.  
 In 2009, Relativity purchased Rogue Pictures from General
Electric’s NBC Universal. The agreement gave Kavanaugh 30
pictures in development, including the comedy “MacGruber.” The
film, released in June, had a production budget of $10 million
and took in $8.5 million in ticket sales, according to the
 Internet Movie Database .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ron Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 Rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        