-- Toyota, Panasonic Recoveries Limited by Yen Strength
-- Shunichi Ozasa
-- 2010-07-27T08:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/toyota-panasonic-export-based-profits-limited-by-abnormal-yen-strength.html

          
          
             Japan’s recovery is being undermined
by the popularity of its currency.  
 The yen has averaged 90.92 against the dollar in 2010,
putting it on course for its strongest year against the U.S.
dollar since currencies began trading freely in 1971, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yen traded at 87.20 at 4:54
p.m. Tokyo time.  
 That will limit profit at  Toyota Motor Corp. ,  Panasonic
Corp.  and other companies scheduled to report earnings over the
next two weeks even as  exports  have climbed for the past seven
straight months. South Korean competitors including  Samsung
Electronics Co.  and  Hyundai Motor Co.  have been the winners as
the won fell 7.6 percent against the yen this year, making their
goods cheaper overseas relative to Japanese exports.  
 “The currency is the key thing,”  Toshihiro Nagahama ,
chief economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo,
said. “First-quarter earnings will be good, but company shares
may not rise to welcome the results, because of the yen’s
gains.”  
 The yen has risen against all the world’s major currencies
in 2010 and is up about 6.5 percent against the dollar and 17
percent against the  euro , which fell to a more than eight-year
low against the Japanese currency last month amid lingering
concern over Europe’s debt crisis. The won is down about 1.5
percent against the dollar this year.  
 ‘Abnormal’  
 Toyota fell 1.6 percent to 3,040 yen at the 3 p.m. close in
Tokyo. Panasonic rose 0.6 percent to 1,138 yen.  
 “The yen has appreciated too much and levels between 80
and 90 yen are abnormal,”  Nippon Yusen K.K.  Chairman  Koji Miyahara  said at a forum on July 23. The yen’s rise is causing a
“rapidly widening disparity with South Korea.”  
 Should the yen remain 10 percent higher than the average
export hedging rate set by Japanese companies, annual corporate
profits will fall by almost 5 percent, said  Tatsushi Shikano ,
senior economist in Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities Co. Real gross domestic product would decline by 0.4
percentage point.  
 Every yen gain against the dollar reduces annual operating
profit at  Toyota , the world’s biggest carmaker, by 30 billion
yen ($344 million) and 16 billion yen at  Honda Motor Co. ,
according to the companies. Both companies are basing their
full-year earnings forecast on a rate of 90 yen per dollar.  
 The country’s big manufacturers expect the yen to average
90.16 per dollar in the six months to March 2011, according to
the Bank of Japan’s quarterly  Tankan  survey released this month.  
 Exporters may maintain full-year profit  forecasts  even
though first quarter earnings are likely to beat expectations,
according to Nagahama.  
 “That basically means they’re lowering second-half
earnings outlook because of a stronger yen,” Nagahama said.  
 Shutting Factories  
 Toyota is forecasting full-year profit will rise 48 percent
to 310 billion yen this business year. Panasonic expects to post
profit of 50 billion yen after posting a 103.5 billion yen loss
last year.  
 Nidec Corp. , the world’s biggest maker of disk-drive motors,
kept its annual earnings  forecast  unchanged after changing the
exchange rate reference for its full-year earnings estimate to
85 yen to the dollar from 90 yen, the company said in a
statement on July 23. The company had better-than-expected
earnings in the quarter to June 30.  
 “We have shut factories and installed new equipment to
boost productivity” which is helping absorb the yen’s impact,
said  Masahiro Sakane  the chairman of Komatsu Ltd., the world’s
second-largest construction machinery maker.  
 Komatsu will complete the closure of a plant north of Tokyo
this week after shutting a factory west of the capital in March.  
 Export Growth  
 Export growth is slowing in Japan as the rebound from the
lows at the depth of the crisis tapers off. Exports accounted
for about 13 percent of Japan’s economy in 2009.  
 Shipments abroad rose 27.7 percent in June from a year
earlier, the Finance Ministry said yesterday in Tokyo, down from
a 32.1 percent increase in May and 40.4 percent in April. Growth
is forecast to slow in the U.S. and China, Japan’s biggest
export markets.  
 Japanese policy makers signaled last week the yen is a risk
to the economic expansion as analysts forecast the government
may step into currency markets to help the nation’s exporters.  
 “An abrupt drop in stock prices or an appreciation in the
yen could hurt the economy,” because the country is still
reliant on overseas demand, National Strategy Minister  Satoshi Arai  said in Tokyo on July 23. Cabinet Office official  Keisuke Tsumura  said the same day the yen has been “a bit too high.”  
 Importers Gain  
 Still, companies that rely on imports of commodities such
as utilities including  Tokyo Electric Power Co.  and  Tokyo Gas
Co ., Japan’s largest power and natural-gas suppliers, may
benefit.  
 Each yen gain in the currency against the dollar will cut
Tokyo Electric’s fuel import costs as much as 17 billion yen in
the year to March 2011, said  Ryo Shimizu , a spokesman for the
utility, which supplies more than 28 million customers in the
capital and surrounding areas.  
 “The yen-dollar rate and oil price are the key elements
that impact our earnings,” said Minoru Iwashita, a spokesman
for Tokyo Gas. “It’s a simple mechanism: a stronger yen cuts
the costs of our liquefied natural gas imports.”  
 Tokyo Gas  forecast  in April a 21 percent rise in net income
for this business year. A one yen move in the Japanese currency
can help bolster Tokyo Gas’s annual operating profit by 900
million yen, Iwashita said.  
 While Japanese companies are cutting costs and moving
production overseas, their Korean  competitors  are reaping the
benefits of a lower local currency. Samsung said earlier this
month it had record operating income of 5 trillion won ($4.2
billion) in the three months to June.  
 The advantage will continue as long as the yen stays high,
according to Kim Kwang Kook, a deputy general manager at Hyundai
Heavy Industries Co.  
 “The stronger currency will help improve our price
competitiveness against rivals,” Kim said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Naoko Fujimura  in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net @bloomberg.net;
 Shunichi Ozasa  in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Nippon Yusen K.K. Chairman Koji Miyahara, attends a panel discussion at the 2009 World Economic Forum Meeting of New Champions in Dalian. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
