-- Pearson Says First-Half Profit Rose on U.S. Education, Penguin
-- Kristen Schweizer
-- 2010-07-26T08:08:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/pearson-says-first-half-profit-rose-on-u-s-education-penguin.html

          
          
             Pearson Plc , the owner of the
Financial Times newspaper, raised its outlook for 2010 after
first-half profit more than tripled on growth in its education
business and at book publisher Penguin.  
  Net income  in the first six months was 92 million pounds
($142.3 million), compared with 28 million pounds a year
earlier, London-based Pearson said in a statement today. Sales
rose about 9 percent to 2.34 billion pounds.  
 The company said 2010 earnings will advance 7 percent to 70
pence a share, driven by strong growth in U.S. higher education,
testing and digital learning. Pearson gets about 65 percent of
sales from education and has been expanding holdings in this
market. The company, which had first-half sales growth of 7
percent in its education business, last week bought a unit of
 Sistema Educacional Brasileiro SA  to tap growth in Brazil.  
 “We are trying to acquire things that are best for our
long-term strategy,” Chief Executive Officer  Marjorie Scardino 
said on a conference call today, stressing profit for the year
would be “heavily-weighted to the second half.”  
 The company raised its interim dividend 7 percent to 13
pence a share, citing a strong start to 2010.  
 Pearson  rose as much as  3.7 percent, trading 3.1 percent
higher at 1,003 pence as of 8:43 a.m. in London. The shares have
risen 13 percent this year, giving Pearson a market value of
8.16 billion pounds.  
 Return to Growth  
 Pearson said its U.S. school-publishing business as well as
advertising at the Financial Times revived in the first half and
MergerMarket Ltd. benefitted from better renewal rates.  
 Sales  at the FT Group rose 9 percent to 192 million pounds.
The Financial Times iPad application has been downloaded 250,000
times, Scardino said, adding that users are spending an average
25 minutes per session, well above the normal rate for most
newspapers.  
 “The FT is growing in both digital and print advertising
and all regions of the world are increasing,” she said. “We
see a steady increase, though our strategy is to move away from
a dependency on advertising. There is poor visibility still in
advertising.”  
 Penguin, which celebrates its 75th anniversary this week,
had revenue of 493 million pounds, up from 452 million pounds.  
 In May, Pearson sold its 61 percent stake in Interactive
Data Corp. for $3.4 billion in the second-biggest private-equity
deal this year. The company plans to use those proceeds to
expand through bolt-on acquisitions, with a particular focus on
technology and education businesses.  
 Fast-Growing Markets  
 Scardino said today Pearson will continue to focus on fast-
growing emerging markets for its educational business as well as
the FT Group, as “demand for information is as high as demand
for education.”  
 The sale of IDC is expected to close in the next few weeks
and is Pearson’s largest disposal in a decade, she said. “The
lion’s share of our business now comes from institutional
education,” Scardino said. “All of Pearson is now about
education.”  
 Pearson agreed last week to pay 888 million reais ($500
million) for SEB’s learning systems division, which provides
teaching methods, training and materials. The Zaher family,
which owns 70 percent of SEB, will retain the school and higher
education institutions of the business and become a “major
customer” of Pearson, the company said.  
 The acquisition will bolster adjusted earnings per share
from 2011 and generate a return on invested capital exceeding
Pearson’s weighted average cost of capital from 2012.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Schweizer  in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Pearson Plc chief executive officer Marjorie Scardino. Source: Pearson via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
