-- Electrolux, Pernod, Imperial Feel Bite of European Budget Cuts
-- Paul Jarvis
-- 2010-07-27T07:14:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/pernod-electrolux-feel-europe-s-spending-cuts-bite-as-consumers-cut-back.html

          
          
             Europe’s biggest consumer companies
are starting to feel the pinch of budget-cutting.  
 Electrolux AB ,  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc  and  Pernod Ricard
SA  said last week demand slackened as shoppers cut back on
appliances, cigarettes and liquor.  Groupe Danone SA  today
reported weaker sales growth and further evidence of a European
consumer slowdown may be provided by  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA  and  British American Tobacco Plc  in coming days.  
 “Reality will continue to hit the consumer, especially in
southern Europe, as disposable income suffers through higher
taxes and pay cuts,” said  Jane Coffey , who helps manage about
$50 billion at Royal London Asset Management Ltd. “In lots of
sectors, capacity has not yet been cut in response to lower
demand and we would expect further pricing weakness.”  
 Governments in Greece, Spain, Italy and the U.K. have
pledged spending cuts to prevent a continent-wide debt shock.
 Electrolux , the world’s second-biggest appliance maker, said
southern European demand “weakened considerably” toward the
end of the second quarter, while Imperial Tobacco’s volume
decline worsened and Pernod said revenue missed estimates.  
 The extent of the slump was unexpected. Electrolux stock
dropped 7.8 percent on July 19 and Imperial Tobacco fell 2.9
percent on July 22. Pernod declined 2.3 percent the next day.  
 Telecoms, Cement  
 “The effect will probably be felt stronger this quarter as
spending cuts start to impact on real spending,” said  Mark Bon ,
who helps oversee $750 million at Canada Life Ltd. in London.  
 Industries from telecommunications to construction are also
coming under pressure from government cutbacks.  
 Vodafone Group Plc , the world’s largest mobile operator,
said July 23 its Spanish service revenue dropped 6.2 percent in
the fiscal first quarter, while Italian revenue fell 2.5
percent.  Telefonica SA  of Spain is “heading for a profit
warning this year,” Sanford Bernstein analysts wrote July 21.
The telecoms company will report earnings on Thursday.  
 Italcementi SpA , Italy’s biggest cement maker, will get no
earnings contribution from its home market in the first half,
Exane BNP Paribas analysts estimate.  
 While the European economy is forecast to return to growth,
the Greek economy is set to shrink 4 percent this year, twice
the rate of 2009, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
The Spanish economy may contract 0.5 percent.  
 Demand Reversal  
 “Within Europe, there’s a lot of volatility among
different markets,” Electrolux Chief Executive Officer  Hans Straberg  said July 19. Demand has reversed from the beginning of
the year, when consumers in southern Europe were still buying
stoves and vacuum cleaners while northern and eastern European
demand was weak, the CEO said.  
 Pernod’s  western European sales in the three months ended
June 30 were hurt by the U.K., Spain and Greece, the Paris-based
distiller said July 22, as declining consumer confidence
deterred shoppers from buying premium brands. Danone’s sales
growth in Europe slowed to 1.4 percent in the second quarter
from 2.1 percent in the first three months of the year as the
Spanish markets for water and dairy were “challenging.”  
 Reckitt Benckiser Plc  yesterday said the European market
was expanding less than 1 percent by volume, slower than the
growth of up to 4 percent the company had anticipated. Reckitt
manufactures a range of household and medicinal products
including Nurofen painkillers.  
 ‘Remains Troubling’  
 “Europe remains troubling,” Credit Suisse analyst  Anthony Bucalo  wrote in a note on Pernod. Greece, Spain and the U.K.
have “clearly become more challenging as economic weakness and
austerity programs take hold.”  
 The U.K. coalition government has pledged to reduce the
budget deficit to safeguard the nation’s top credit rating.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  announced an initial
6 billion pounds ($9.2 billion) of cost cuts on May 24.  
 Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc  shares slumped 20 percent on
July 20 after the telecoms company said discretionary government
spending has “slowed very significantly.”  
 Some industries are still being boosted by growth-spurring
measures introduced during the recession.  Volkswagen AG  and
Renault SA have benefited from a surge in demand because of
government incentives for new car sales in Spain, Portugal and
Ireland. That may change as governments cut back.  
 While Greek tax increases may have hit beer sales in that
country, a warm summer and a Spanish victory in the World Cup
may have helped offset declining consumer confidence in other
places, according to  Alex Oldroyd , a London-based  analyst  at
Barclays Capital.  
 “Beer is not as bad as spirits,” she said. Spain “was
the winner of the World Cup in beer terms and the weather was
pretty good in Europe. Weather is more important than the
economy for beer.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  at   pjarvis@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bottles of Evian water, produced by Groupe Danone SA. Photographer: Fabrice Dimier/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
