-- Philippine Exchange Says to Disregard Benchmark Index Data After 15% Jump
-- Ian Sayson
-- 2010-07-26T06:12:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/philippine-exchange-says-to-disregard-benchmark-index-data-after-15-jump.html

          
          
             The Philippine Stock Exchange said
investors should “disregard” its data on the benchmark
 Philippine Stock Exchange Index  after its figures showed the
measure surged by a record 15 percent today.  
 The transfer to a new trading system caused the glitch, the
exchange said in an e-mailed statement. The benchmark fell less
than 0.1 percent to 3,414.03 at the noon close in Manila, the
bourse said in a separate statement. The gauge climbed 15
percent to 3,937.39 earlier today while the  Philippine Stock
Exchange Finance Index  more than tripled.  
 “Brokers are very careful, trades are being done one at a
time to avoid mistakes,”  Peter Lee , senior investment officer
at Manila-based IGC Securities Inc., said in a phone interview
today. “Prices are double checked especially those stocks that
are not within their trading usual range. Nobody wants to commit
a mistake.”  
 The problem affected “index values and market statistics”
but not share prices of individual stocks, the exchange said.
The exchange’s website will reflect later the correct index
level and market statistics today, it said.  
 Some index stocks moved beyond their usual trading ranges.
 SM Investments Corp. , owner of the nation’s biggest mall
operator, dropped by a record 20 percent earlier, while  Manila
Electric Co. , the country’s biggest power retailer, lost 9.3
percent, the most since Nov. 6.  
 More Trades  
 The new trading system will allow the exchange to handle
more trades and complete transactions faster, Chairman  Hans Sicat  said in May. He also said then the new platform would
allow the exchange to extend its 2 1/2 trading hours and expand
its products that can be traded including debt and derivatives.  
 The exchange’s new trading system uses software developed
by NYSE Technologies SAS, a unit of  NYSE Euronext , the
Philippine Exchange said today. It replaces a platform in use
since 1993, it said.  
 The volume of trades fell 63 percent to 1.63 billion pesos 
($35 million), the stock exchange said in a statement. That’s 
the smallest amount of trade since Sept. 28, according to data 
compiled by Bloomberg.                                       
 Philippine President  Benigno Aquino  is set to give his
“state of the nation” speech today after his election victory
in May. Philippine stocks typically fall before a president’s
inaugural state of nation address, based on data from previous
speeches since the country returned to democracy 24 years ago.
They usually rebound the following day.  
 “It pays to listen to a president’s initial state of the
nation speech because you get a glimpse on the government’s
direction in the next six years,” said  Jonathan Ravelas ,
strategist at Manila-based Banco de Oro Unibank Inc. “Investors
tend to hold back and stay on the sidelines until the roadmap is
put on the table.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian C. Sayson  in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        