-- Plosser Says Weaker Data Don't Yet Justify More Fed Stimulus
-- Craig Torres
-- 2010-07-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/plosser-says-weaker-data-don-t-yet-justify-more-fed-stimulus.html

          
          
             Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said it’s too soon for the Fed to
bolster record U.S. monetary stimulus in response to slower-
than-forecast gains in economic growth and employment.  
 “Talk of new efforts to stimulate the economy are premature
right now,” Plosser said yesterday in an interview with
Bloomberg News in Washington. “I don’t think the data have been
sufficiently compelling one way or another.”  
 Plosser’s viewpoint may help explain why Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last week outlined potential steps to spur growth,
including asset purchases, without saying that such actions were
imminent. Europe’s debt crisis, U.S. census hiring and the end
of a homebuyers’ tax credit make it tough to gauge whether the
economy is truly weakening, Plosser said.  
 Varying economic data make it “very hard from month to
month to really get a good signal as to what’s going on,” said
Plosser, 61, during a meeting with Bloomberg reporters and
editors. He said he hopes “the clouds will begin to clear in
the next month or two,” and after that, “we’ll get a little
better picture actually of where we stand.”  
 A government report yesterday showed sales of new U.S.
homes rose in June more than forecast following an unprecedented
collapse the prior month. At the same time, the 330,000 annual
pace was the second-lowest in data going back to 1963 after
May’s downwardly revised 267,000 pace.  
 The Fed has left its benchmark interest rate close to zero
since December 2008 and pledged since March 2009 to keep it
there for an “extended period.” The central bank also expanded
its balance sheet to a near-record $2.34 trillion by purchasing
$1.7 trillion of housing-related debt and Treasury securities.  
 ‘Lot of Stimulus’  
 “We’ve got a lot of stimulus out there right now,”
Plosser said without ruling out future action. While the central
bank “is not out of bullets,”  central bankers  have to be sure
they’re using the right tool, much as a doctor needs to
prescribe the correct medicine to cure a sickness, he said.  
 Private employers added fewer workers to payrolls in June
than economists forecast. The jobless rate has been stuck at 9.5
percent or higher since August and reached 10.1 percent in
October, compared with December 1982’s 10.8 percent.  
 Unemployment may take as long as five or six years to
return to its longer-run rate, which Fed officials judge to be 5
percent to 5.3 percent, the central bank said in minutes of its
June meeting.  
 Biggest Bother  
 “The number that bothers me more than anything is
unemployment,” said Plosser, who joined the Philadelphia Fed as
its chief in 2006. He doesn’t vote on interest-rate decisions
this year and dissented twice from Federal Open Market Committee
actions to lower borrowing costs in March and April 2008. “I’m
worried that we’re kind of looking at a longer slog to get
through than perhaps I would like.”  
 In a separate interview with Bloomberg Television
yesterday, Plosser said the economy still has “underlying
strength” and that the Fed has “ammunition to act if we want
to.”  
 “But I would caution people that the Fed will look at both
the costs and benefits of any action that we undertake,” he
said.  
 For instance, “lowering the interest rates closer to zero
could have very disruptive effects on the financial markets,”
Plosser said. “If we bought Treasury bills we could un-anchor
expectations of inflation because the public might begin to
think we are going to buy up the public debt.”  
 The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has declined about 8.6
percent from its 2010 peak on April 26 amid investor concern
Greece might default on its debt and downgrades of other
European nations’ credit ratings. The index rose 1.1 percent to
1,115.01 in New York yesterday, the highest close since June 18.  
 ‘Reasonable Approach’  
 Still, waiting for an economic trend to emerge “is a
reasonable approach” for the Fed, said  Ward McCarthy , chief
financial economist at Jefferies & Co. Inc. in New York. “There
clearly was a psychological effect from the events in Europe in
April and May. The Fed is literally keeping all options open.”  
 Bernanke said last week that one option to aid the economy
is to lower the 0.25 percent rate the Fed pays on the $1
trillion of banks’ excess reserves. Another is to enhance the
Fed’s pledge for  low  rates for an “extended period.” Last
year, Canada’s central bank made a specific time commitment.  
 “I don’t like the calendar time. I’d rather us focus more
on what economic conditions should prevail when we begin
thinking about that,” Plosser said. In February, he said he was
“not a big fan” of the “extended period” phrase, which
Kansas City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig  has voted against at
each FOMC meeting this year. Policy makers are scheduled to meet
again on Aug. 10.  
 Economy to Expand  
 Plosser said he hasn’t reduced his growth forecast much in
recent months. The U.S. economy will expand at a 3 percent to
3.5 percent pace over the next two years, he said. Growth in
U.S. gross domestic product slowed to a 2.7 percent annual pace
in the first quarter, compared with a 3 percent estimate issued
in May and a 5.6 percent rate in the last three months of 2009.  
 Business spending that was “pretty strong” earlier in the
year has since slowed, possibly because of “uncertainties about
tax policies and fiscal policies,” Plosser said. “When people
see the prospects for higher taxes down the road, it makes a
difference today about whether they choose to invest or not.”  
 The inflation risks are “to the upside” over the next two
to three years in part because of the $1 trillion of excess bank
reserves created by the Fed, Plosser said.  
 Inflation currently is running below Fed officials’ long-
term preferred rate of about 1.7 percent to 2 percent. The core
personal consumption expenditures price index, which excludes
food and fuel, rose 1.3 percent in May from a year earlier.
“I’m not too worried about inflation in the near term,” he
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Craig Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Charles Plosser, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, listens during an interview in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia President Charles Plosser talks with Bloomberg's Michael McKee about the U.S. economy and potential Fed actions to stimulate growth. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
