-- Pound Rises, Surpassing $1.55 Level, After British Banks Pass Stress Tests
-- Lukanyo Mnyanda
-- 2010-07-26T15:58:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/pound-rises-after-british-banks-pass-stress-tests-boosting-stock-market.html

          
          
             The British pound advanced to its
strongest level in more three months against the dollar after
major U.K. banks passed European Union stress tests.  
 Sterling surpassed $1.55 against the dollar for the first
time since April 16. The Financial Services Authority said late
last week that HSBC Holdings Plc, Barclays Plc, Lloyds Banking
Group Plc and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc passed tests
designed to show their ability to withstand a financial crisis.
 The FTSE 350 Banks Index  gained 1.3 percent. The pound rose even
after Ernst & Young LLP’s Item Club cut its U.K growth forecast.  
 “U.K. banks came out okay from the stress tests, which is
probably helping” the pound extend its gains, said  Adam Cole ,
head of global foreign-exchange strategy at Royal Bank of Canada
in London.  
 The pound advanced 0.5 percent to $1.5496 as of 4:47 p.m.
in London, and earlier reached $1.552. Britain’s currency was
little changed at 83.77 pence per euro.  
 U.K. government bonds declined, with the yield on the 10-
year U.K. security rising one basis point to 3.45 percent. The
two-year note yield increased three basis points to 0.9 percent.  
 That left the difference in yield, or spread, between the
two securities at 255 basis points, the least since December
2009. A narrowing spread reflects declining investor demand for
the shorter dated notes which are perceived to offer the most
security during periods of financial turmoil.  
 Gilts returned 5.2 percent this year, compared with a gain
of 3 percent for bonds in the euro area, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. Treasuries handed investors 6.1 percent, the
indexes showed.  
 House Prices  
 The pound rose even amid data signaling that the economic
recovery may be in danger of sputtering as the government cuts
spending to rein in the budget deficit.  
 The  average house price  in England and Wales fell 0.1
percent from June, Hometrack Ltd., the London-based property
researcher said in an e-mailed report today, citing a survey of
surveyors and real-estate agents. Home values in London led the
decline.  
 The U.K’s gross domestic product will rise 2.2 percent next
year, compared with a prediction in April for 2.7 percent
expansion, the Item Club, which uses the same forecasting model
as the U.K. Treasury, said today according to an e-mailed
statement. The recovery will be “slow” and “patchy,” it
said.  
 The pound has gained 2.7 percent against its U.S. peer
since June 25 amid investor optimism that the recovery will be
sustained. The economy expanded by 1.1 percent in the three
months through June, from 0.3 percent growth in the previous
quarter, a government report showed on July 23.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        