-- Commercial Property Loan Disposals `Anemic,' Credit Suisse Says
-- Sarah Mulholland
-- 2010-07-26T20:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/property-debt-liquidated-by-servicers-at-anemic-pace-credit-suisse-says.html

          
          
             Servicers are liquidating soured
commercial property loans bundled into bonds at an “anemic”
pace as large mortgages delay the process, creating uncertainty
as to the size of losses, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  
 Of nearly 4,900 troubled loans, 86 totaling $494 million
were liquidated last month, Credit Suisse analysts Serif Ustun
and  Sylvain Jousseaume  in New York wrote in a July 23 report.
More than 80 percent of those loans were less than $10 million
and the largest had only $27 million in balance, the analysts
said.  
 Roughly 50 loans with balances greater than $50 million
have been with special servicers, firms that handle troubled
loans packaged in bonds, for at least one year, the report said.
Debt is transferred to a special servicer if a borrower misses
payments or requests a modification to ease potential problems.
Some loans have been with special servicers for more than two
years, according to the report.  
 “Large loans take more time because they are more
complicated,” Ustun said in a telephone interview. “The pace
of monthly loan liquidations was still anemic,” compared with
the overall group, he said.  
 So-called loss severities on liquidated loans contained in
commercial-mortgage bonds for June averaged 58 percent, compared
with 65 percent for 2009, according to data from Zurich-based
Credit Suisse. That compares with average loss severities of 36
percent in previous years, the report said.  
 ‘Rule of Thumb’  
 One of the few large loans that have been liquidated since
2008, an $87 million mortgage on the West Oaks Mall in Houston,
suffered a loss of 98 percent when it was disposed of in late
2009, the report said.  
 “There is no easy rule of thumb” to predict losses on
large and complex debt, Ustun said. “For larger loans, it can
be 20 percent or it can be 100 percent. It really depends on the
specifics.”  
 The average size of a problem loan that’s been liquidated
is $5 million, compared with an average of $15 million for loans
that have been modified, the report said. Of loans that were
restructured, 41 percent were extended for an average of 22
months.  
 “The major uncertainty for us currently is whether these
loans have been truly ‘worked out’ to survive the continuing
softness in the economy and the dearth of financing for smaller-
size loans versus large institutional ‘mega’ loans,” the
analysts said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Mulholland  in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        