-- Prudential Unit, 3 Mexico Funds to Raise Up to $1.3 Billion by September
-- Jonathan Roeder
-- 2010-07-26T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/prudential-unit-3-mexico-funds-to-raise-up-to-1-3-billion-by-september.html

          
          
             Prudential Financial Inc.’s Mexican
unit  and three other investment companies will seek to raise as
much as 16.3 billion pesos ($1.28 billion) by the end of
September from the government and pension funds.  
 The four trusts will use the money to finance real estate
and transportation infrastructure projects in Mexico.  Alonso Garcia Tames , chief executive officer of the development bank
known as Banobras, and  Federico Patino , head of the national
infrastructure fund known as  Fonadin , spoke to reporters about
the new round of securities’ sales on July 23.  
 The offerings will be the second this year under a plan
Mexican President  Felipe Calderon  introduced last year. Calderon
wants to increase private financing of road, bridge and real
estate projects by tapping the 1.28 trillion pesos held by the
nation’s pension funds.  
 Fonadin and Banobras will invest 3.26 billion pesos in
the trusts, and the rest of the capital will be sought from
pension funds, banks and brokerages in offerings through
 Mexico’s stock exchange . Fonadin’s and Banobras’s participation
will be capped at 20 percent, Garcia Tames said.  
 AMB Mexico Manager , a local unit of U.S. industrial real
estate landlord AMB Property Corp., will sell as much as 3.3
billion pesos of trust fund shares July 27, according to filings
with Mexico’s stock exchange. The proceeds will finance
warehouses and industrial developments in Mexico.  
 Highways, Hospitals  
 That will be followed in August by PLA Inmuebles
Industriales, a local unit of  Prudential Financial Inc ., which
plans to raise as much as to 6.5 billion pesos to finance
industrial developments. A specific date wasn’t provided.  
 In September, Artha Capital will raise as much as 2.5
billion pesos for housing, tourism, commercial and industrial
real estate projects. Mexico Retail Properties will raise as
much as 4 billion pesos that same month for highways, water
treatment facilities, hospitals, schools and prisons, according
to the presentation.  
 Pedro Ordorica , president of the Mexican pension fund
regulator Consar, said in an interview July 15 that the nation’s
pension funds have invested 16 billion pesos in infrastructure
trusts and are able to invest 100 billion pesos more under the
funds’ investment rules.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adriana Lopez  in Mexico City at 
 adrianalopez@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Roeder  at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        