-- Qatar Navigation's Second-Quarter Profit Declines 32% on Investment Losses
-- Robert Tuttle
-- 2010-07-26T12:43:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/qatar-navigation-first-half-profit-doubles-to-187-million-on-acquisition.html

          
          
             Qatar Navigation Co., a freight
transportation company, reported a worse-than-expected 32
percent drop in second-quarter net income as it lost money on
revenue from investments.  
 The shares dropped the most in two months today after net
income fell to  126.9 million riyals  ($34.9 million) from 184.5
million riyals in the same quarter of 2009, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on the Doha-based company’s  first-
half earnings . EFG-Hermes Brokerage estimated a quarterly income
of 225 million riyals, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  
 Qatar Navigation, which bought Qatar Shipping Co. earlier
this year, announced its earnings on the Qatar Exchange website.  
 Qatar Navigation reported a 34.3 million riyal loss in
“investment and interest revenue” for the three months ending
June 30, according to Bloomberg calculations.  
 “The investment income line, that’s come in behind,” said
 Redwan Ahmed , an equities analyst in Dubai at EFG-Hermes Holding
SAE, speaking by phone. “The market has been weak.”  
 Net income for the first half of the year jumped to 681.5
million riyals from 347.6 million riyals for the same six months
of 2009, the company said in a statement to the Qatari bourse.  
 Qatar Navigation said the profit included a gain of 236
million riyals on its acquisition of Qatar Shipping. Qatar
Navigation bought Qatar Shipping in an all-share transaction in
January, acquiring 2.2 shares in Qatar Shipping for every Qatar
Navigation share.  
 Qatar is the largest exporter of liquefied natural gas. The
International Monetary Fund forecasts that its economy will
expand this year by 19 percent, the fastest growth in the world.  
 Qatar Navigation “should benefit from that growth in the
economy,” Ahmed said. “We expect that momentum to continue
into the second half of the year.”  
 Qatar Navigation’s shares  fell  4.7 percent to 80.4 riyals a
share on the Qatar Exchange today, the biggest decline since May
25. The  stock has gained  24 percent this year, the second-
biggest gain on the  QE Index  of leading Qatari companies behind
the shares of National Leasing Co.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        