-- Nvidia to Pay Rambus Fees While Appealing ITC Ruling
-- Ian King
-- 2010-07-27T13:49:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/rambus-wins-patent-fight-against-nvidia-in-u-s-agency-ruling-shares-jump.html

          
          
             Nvidia Corp. , the world’s second-
largest maker of computer-graphics chips, plans to appeal a
patent ruling lost to  Rambus Inc.  and said customers including
Hewlett-Packard Co. won’t see any disruption to their supplies.  
 The U.S. International Trade Commission in Washington
yesterday  said  Nvidia chips infringed three Rambus patents, and
issued an order that would ban imports of certain products
containing the chips. Nvidia said it can continue sales by
taking advantage of a licensing arrangement Rambus reached with
European regulators as part of an unrelated antitrust case.  
 “I would expect that they would fight it to the extent the
law provides, but having said that, they have to take care of
their customers,”  Chris Caso , an analyst with Susquehanna
International Group in New York, said in an interview.  
 Rambus, which got about  96 percent  of its $113 million in
revenue last year from patent licensing royalties, filed the
complaint against Santa Clara, California-based Nvidia after the
two were unable to reach a licensing agreement. Rambus, based in
Los Altos, California, has spent more than a decade  suing 
computer-memory chipmakers that refused licensing deals.  
 “It puts Rambus in the dominant bargaining position,”
 Jeff Schreiner , an analyst for Capstone Investments Inc. in San
Diego, said in an interview. “A whole bunch of other companies
that were watching this will now likely sign licensing deals.”  
 Rambus Shares Rise  
 Rambus  rose $1.41, or 7.2 percent, to $21 at 9:45 a.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares jumped as
much as 11 percent for their biggest intraday gain since Jan.
20.  Nvidia  fell 12 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $10.43.  
 Schreiner has a “strong buy” rating on Rambus, which he
doesn’t own. Caso has a “negative” rating on Nvidia because of
slow personal computer sales and said he doesn’t own the shares.  
 As part of an agreement reached with the European
Commission last year, Rambus agreed to license its patents
related to memory controllers at a rate that wouldn’t exceed 40
cents per unit.  
 “That’s revenue to us: It resolves the future; it doesn’t
resolve the past,” Rambus General Counsel  Tom Lavelle  said in
an interview. Rambus still expects Nvidia to pay “past damages
for the eight years they were infringing our patents and not
paying us,” he said.  
 Rambus has a civil lawsuit pending to seek that money. The
ITC doesn’t have the authority to impose monetary damages, only
to block imports of the offending products.  
 Nvidia’s Next Steps  
 By paying the European-set rate, Nvidia avoids an ITC order
that would ban imports of some products containing the chips and
prohibit sales of imported goods already in the country.  
 The bans are subject to review by U.S. President  Barack Obama . The underlying patent case will be appealed to a court in
Washington that specializes in patent law. Nvidia also is
challenging the patents in a review before the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office.  
 The European Commission license “will allow us and our
partners to continue our business under the terms of that
license and prevent the enforcement of any exclusion order,”
Nvidia said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Nvidia is the largest maker of graphics chips behind  Intel
Corp. , and most of its chips are made by  Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co.   
 The ITC case names products that use Nvidia chips,
including some  Hewlett-Packard  computers, motherboards made by
 Asustek Computer Inc. ’s Asus Computer International unit and
products from  Biostar Microtech International Corp . Most of the
chips were made in Taiwan and sold to computer-parts makers.
Nvidia was handling the defense on behalf of its customers.  
 Samsung Agreement  
 A judge with the ITC said in January that Nvidia was
infringing three Rambus patents, while two other patents were
ruled invalid. In its announcement yesterday, the commission
sided with the judge on the three patents.  
 It ordered the parties to post a bond of 2.65 percent of
the value of the imports to continue bringing the products into
the U.S. during the presidential review period.  
 The patents relate to controllers that connect the memory
and the graphics chips. The complaint targets Nvidia’s GeForce,
Quadro, nForce, Tesla and Tegra lines.  
 Samsung Electronics Co. in January agreed to pay $900
million to end its legal dispute with Rambus and sign a new
licensing deal. The commission said in a May 27 order that it
wanted to determine if Nvidia was protected by the Samsung
settlement or if Rambus exhausted its rights on the technology.  
 The commission didn’t release a copy of its findings, only
a notice of its decision. Typically, it lets both sides redact
confidential information before making its opinions public.  
 Memory Chips  
 Rambus also has disputes pending with Korea’s  Hynix
Semiconductor Inc.  and  Micron Technology Inc. , based in Boise,
Idaho, over patented technology related to dynamic-random access
memory, or DRAM, which acts as the main type of memory in
personal computers.  
 The patents in the Nvidia case are newer than those in the
DRAM cases. Rambus does license the patents to other companies,
and the win may help lure more companies that make memory
controllers to its licensing program.  
 “We feel there will be a number of other memory controller
companies that would be interested in taking a license to these
patents,” Lavelle said.  
 The ITC case is In The Matter of Semiconductor Chips Having
Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory Controllers and
Products Containing Same, 337-661, U.S. International Trade
Commission (Washington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        