-- Treasury 10-Year Note Yield Increases Above 3% for First Time in a Week
-- Susanne Walker
-- 2010-07-26T21:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/treasuries-rise-on-speculation-slow-economic-growth-will-keep-rates-lower.html

          
          
             Treasury 10-year  note yields  rose
above 3 percent for the first time in more than a week before
giving up gains as the level attracted buyers skeptical about
the pace of the U.S. economic recovery.  
 U.S.  securities  of all denominations fell earlier, pushing
two-year note yields up from near their lowest ever, as data
showing that sales of U.S. new homes rose in June more than
forecast damped Treasuries’ haven appeal. The government
prepared to sell $104 billion in notes this week.  
 “Once the 10-year yield was above 3 percent, that enticed
some people into the market, and it brought yields down,” said
 Alex Li , an interest-rate strategist in New York at Deutsche
Bank AG, one of the 18 primary dealers that are obligated to bid
in Treasury sales. “Three percent is a decent support level for
the 10-year. People don’t want to be overweight in risky assets
so Treasuries have benefited.” Support is an area on a chart
where orders may be clustered.  
 The benchmark 10-year note  yielded  2.99 percent at 4:59
p.m. in New York, according to BGCantor Market Data. It earlier
touched 3.03 percent, its first time above 3 percent since July
16. The 3.5 percent security due in May 2020 traded at 104 1/4.
The  two-year  note yielded 0.59 percent after reaching a record
low 0.5516 percent on July 23.  
 About $146 billion of Treasuries changed hands today
through ICAP Plc as of 4:03 p.m. in New York, compared with an
average  daily volume  of $246 billion over the past three months,
according to data from the world’s largest inter-dealer broker.  
 Stocks climbed, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
gaining 1.1 percent.  
 Treasury Auctions  
 The U.S. is scheduled to sell $38 billion in two-year notes
tomorrow, $37 billion of five-year debt the following day and
$29 billion in seven-year securities July 29. The total is the
lowest monthly offering of the securities since June 2009.  
 Treasuries erased losses today as investors speculated that
companies issuing corporate securities had purchased U.S.
government debt as part of their interest-rate risk management
strategy. As companies sell debt, they may enter so-called rate-
lock agreements in which they bet on Treasury prices falling to
guard against higher yields. Once the debt is sold, the wagers
are ended.  
 Corporate bond sales so far this month totaled $71.3
billion, $23.7 billion of which were last week, according to
Bloomberg data. June’s total was $69.8 billion.  
 Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. aluminum producer, sold $1
billion of notes today in its biggest offering in two years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Commonwealth Edison
Co., the Chicago-based electric utility owned by Exelon Corp.,
sold $500 million of 10-year notes, Bloomberg data showed.  
 ‘Some Support’  
 “The market was under pressure as stocks found a footing,
but in the low-volume trading session, some rate-lock unwinds
with deal pricings appear to be providing some support to an
otherwise lackluster session,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government
bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in Stamford,
Connecticut.  
 Purchases of new homes last month increased 24 percent from
May to an  annual pace  of 330,000, figures from the Commerce
Department showed today in Washington. The rate was the second-
lowest in data that goes back to 1963 after May’s downwardly
revised 267,000 pace, a collapse triggered by the end of a
government tax credit.  
 The 10-year note yield has dropped more than one percentage
point since its 2010 high of 4.01 percent, reached on April 5,
as signs that the economy is slowing boosted demand for the
safest fixed-income assets.  
 Confidence, GDP  
 A confidence measure this week may also show Americans grew
more pessimistic about the economy. The Conference Board’s
consumer confidence gauge dropped to 51 in July from 52.9 in
June, a Bloomberg survey showed before the report, due tomorrow.  
 Gross domestic product growth probably slowed to 2.5
percent in the second quarter from 2.7 percent in the first, a
separate survey showed before the government reports the figure
on July 30.  
 The combination of record-low yields on two-year notes, 10-
year rates near 3 percent and a deficit projected to surpass
$1.4 trillion for a second consecutive year is a signal that the
bond market is less concerned with government spending than with
getting the economy back on track.  
 “The U.S. has been granted more time,” said  Anthony Crescenzi , a portfolio manager and strategist in Newport Beach,
California, at Pacific Investment Management Co., which oversees
more than $1 trillion in assets. “Because of the concerns in
Europe, money has flowed to the U.S., and so it does allow the
U.S. to play the game for longer, and kick the can down the road
on deficit reduction.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        