-- Treasury Yield Near One-Week High as Stocks Gains Reduce Demand for Safety
-- Wes Goodman
-- 2010-07-26T05:57:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/treasury-yield-near-one-week-high-as-stocks-gains-reduce-demand-for-safety.html

          
          
             Treasury yields were near a one-week
high as stock gains cut demand for government debt and the U.S.
prepared to sell $104 billion of notes this week.  
 Yields indicate investors are more willing to lend after
tests regulators conducted on 91 European banks found 7 need to
raise money, MF Global Singapore Ltd., part of the world’s
largest broker of exchange-traded futures and options, said in a
report. The TED spread, the difference between what banks and
the U.S. Treasury pay to borrow for three months, narrowed to 35
basis points, the least since May.  
 “Today is a ‘risk-on’ day,” said  Roger Bridges , who
oversees the equivalent of $10.8 billion in Sydney as head of
debt at Tyndall Investment Management Ltd., part of Australia’s
largest insurer. “Equity markets have bottomed. And there’s a
lot of supply this week that will put pressure on the market.”  
 The 10-year note  yielded  2.99 percent as of 6:42 a.m. in
London, according to BGCantor Market Data. The 3.5 percent
security due May 2020 traded at 104 11/32. The rate climbed to 3
percent on July 23, the highest since July 16. The two-year
 Treasury  security yielded 0.58 percent, rising from the record
low of 0.5516 percent on July 23.  
 Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average advanced 0.7 percent,
gaining for a second day. Shares in Atlanta-based United Parcel
Service Inc., the world’s largest package-delivery company,
jumped last week after the company said the U.S. economy will
continue to recover.  
 Credit Risk Easing  
 “We are seeing gradual easing of general credit risk,”
 Geoff Howie , a senior vice president for MF Global in Singapore,
wrote today.  
 European Union  tests found seven banks need to raise a
combined 3.5 billion euros ($4.53 billion) of capital.
Regulators are using their first coordinated stress tests to
reassure investors after mounting budget deficits pummeled the
bonds of Greece, Spain and Portugal.  
 The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 50 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan declined one basis point to 118 basis
points, the lowest since May 13, Credit Agricole CIB and CMA
prices show. Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for
protecting bonds against default and traders use them to
speculate on credit quality. An increase suggests deteriorating
perceptions of credit quality and a drop shows improvement.  
 Libor Falls  
 The London interbank offered  rate , which banks pay for
three-month dollar loans, fell for an eighth day on July 23 to
0.49 percent.  
 The Treasury is scheduled to auction $38 billion in two-
year notes tomorrow, $37 billion of five-year debt the following
day and $29 billion in seven-year securities July 29.  
 The combination of record-low yields on two-year notes, 10-
year rates below 3 percent and a deficit projected to surpass
$1.4 trillion for a second consecutive year is a signal that the
bond market is less concerned with government spending than with
getting the economy back on track.  
 “The U.S. has been granted more time,” said  Anthony Crescenzi , a portfolio manager and strategist in Newport Beach,
California, at Pacific Investment Management Co., which oversees
more than $1 trillion in assets. “Because of the concerns in
Europe, money has flowed to the U.S., and so it does allow the
U.S. to play the game for longer, and kick the can down the road
on deficit reduction.”  
 Slowdown Concerns  
 A Commerce Department report today will show  sales  of new
homes were near a record low in June, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of economists. Gross domestic product growth
probably slowed to annualized 2.5 percent in the second quarter
from 2.7 percent in the first, a separate survey showed before
the government reports the figure on July 30.  
 “The economy is in a soft patch,” said  Hideo Shimomura ,
who helps oversee the equivalent of $57 billion in Tokyo as
chief fund investor at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., a
unit of Japan’s biggest bank. “Yields may reach new lows later
this year.”  
 Yields are poised to push higher as the economy expands, a
Bloomberg survey of economists shows. The 10-year rate will
climb to 3.3 percent by year-end, the survey shows, with the
most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  
 Investors became less bearish on U.S. debt in a weekly
survey by Ried Thunberg ICAP Inc., a unit of ICAP Plc, the
world’s largest inter-dealer broker.  
 The company’s index on the outlook for Treasuries through
December rose four points to 45 as of July 23. A figure less
than 50 shows investors expect prices to fall. The company,
based in Jersey City, New Jersey, said it surveyed 22 fund
managers overseeing $1.35 trillion.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        