-- Reserve Bank of India to Set Interest Rates; Reliance Earnings: Week Ahead
-- Vipin V. Nair
-- 2010-07-26T03:28:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/reserve-bank-of-india-to-set-interest-rates-reliance-earnings-week-ahead.html

          
          
             India’s central bank will decide on
interest rates tomorrow as the fastest inflation in Asia puts
pressure on the nation’s policy makers to tame prices.  
 Inflation in the world’s third-fastest growing major
economy jumped 10.55 percent in June from a year ago, after a
10.16 percent gain in May. Food inflation rate in India stayed
above 10 percent for a 14th straight month in July.  
 The Reserve Bank of India has increased  benchmark rates 
three times since mid-March by a quarter-percentage point each.
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government is under pressure to
check prices from the opposition, led by the Bharatiya Janata
Party, which on July 5 organized a nationwide strike. Consumer
prices paid by industrial and farm workers are increasing almost
14 percent annually, the most among 17 countries tracked by
Bloomberg in Asia-Pacific.  
 India’s parliament today begins its monsoon session. As
many as 33 bills are listed for consideration, including a
legislation that seeks to reduce the government’s stake in  State
Bank of India .  
 U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron will start his visit to
India this week.  
 Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. , the nation’s largest zinc
and copper producer and  NTPC Ltd.  are among the companies that
will report their earnings today for the quarter ended June 30.
 Reliance Industries Ltd. , India’s most valuable company, and
Larsen & Toubro Ltd., the nation’s biggest engineering company,
will report their profit and sales tomorrow.  
 Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. , India’s biggest sport-utility
vehicle maker, and real estate developer DLF Ltd. will detail
their financial performance on July 28.  Hero Honda Motors Ltd. 
and Oil & Natural Gas Corp. will report earnings July 29.  
 Stocks, Bonds, Rupee  
 India’s stocks gained for the third week amid optimism
companies will benefit from increasing demand in Asia’s third-
largest economy, where disposable incomes are rising. The Bombay
Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  gained 1 percent last week.
 Tata Steel Ltd. , the biggest producer of the alloy, and Bharti
Airtel Ltd., the largest mobile-phone operator, were among the
biggest gainers during the week.  
 The rupee rose for a third day on July 23, paring a weekly
loss, on speculation the central bank will raise interest rates
this week for a fourth time this year, making local assets more
attractive to investors seeking higher yields.  
 The Indian currency appreciated 0.4 percent to 46.945 per
dollar in Mumbai, paring the week’s decline to 0.4 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rupee touched
47.385 on July 20, the weakest level since June 7.  
 Benchmark 10-year  bonds  retreated last week, pushing yields
higher. The yield on the 7.80 percent note due in May 2020 rose
four basis points in the week, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.68
percent in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading
system.  

 
Events                                              Date

Parliament monsoon session starts                  July 26
RBI monitory policy review                         July 27
Earnings
Sterlite Industries, NTPC                          July 26
Reliance Industries, Larsen & Toubro               July 27
Mahindra & Mahindra, DLF                           July 28
Hero Honda, Oil & Natural Gas                      July 29
 
 
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vipin V. Nair  in Mumbai at   Vnair12@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        