-- Tribune Bankruptcy Examiner Says Company Has Defense to Suit Over Buyout
-- Steven Church
-- 2010-07-27T20:48:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/tribune-bankruptcy-examiner-issues-conclusions-on-2007-buyout-by-sam-zell.html

          
          
             The biggest piece of  Tribune Co. ’s
2007 buyout is likely to survive a court challenge, even though
managers used an improper solvency test to justify part of the
$8.3 billion deal, an independent examiner said.  
 Creditors who blame the buyout for the newspaper
publisher’s bankruptcy are “somewhat likely” to win a lawsuit
based on the smaller piece of the two-part deal, attorney
 Kenneth N. Klee  found in a report issued yesterday.  
 Unidentified Tribune managers required consulting company
Valuation Research Corp. to use an ‘improper” method to
calculate the Chicago-based company’s value, Klee said. When VRC
issued its flawed solvency opinion favoring the buyout, Tribune
managers claimed the opinion was supported by financial adviser
 Morgan Stanley .  
 The process of hiring VRC “was marred by dishonesty and
lack of candor about the role played by Morgan Stanley in
connection with VRC’s solvency opinion and on the question of
Tribune’s solvency generally,” Klee wrote.  
 In a letter today, Tribune Chief Executive Officer  Randy Michaels  and Chief Operating Officer  Gerald Spector  urged the
company’s employees, who include reporters, editors and
television producers, “not to be distracted by the media
attention.”  
 ‘Disagree With Others’  
 “We agree with some of his assessments and disagree with
others,” Michaels and Spector wrote of Klee’s report.  
 The judge overseeing Tribune’s  bankruptcy  case appointed
Klee in April to evaluate allegations that the buyout violated
bankruptcy law. A summary of Klee’s report provides support for
both backers and critics of Tribune’s exit plan.  
 Tribune filed for bankruptcy in December 2008, a year after
the  buyout  led by real-estate billionaire  Sam Zell . Some lower-
ranking creditors alleged the buyout was a fraudulent transfer
because it added more than $8 billion in debt to the company
while benefiting only Zell and  shareholders .  
 Tribune’s buyout took place in two parts. The $8 billion in
primary financing closed in June 2007 and is “reasonably
likely” to withstand a court challenge, Klee wrote, a finding
in favor of Tribune and lenders including  JPMorgan Chase & Co.   
 By the time the second part closed in December, Tribune’s
financial situation had changed, making VRC’s solvency opinion
more important, Klee wrote. Tribune managers should have known
that the second phase of the buyout would leave the publisher
 insolvent , he said.  
 Approval Opposed  
 “Fiduciaries charged with the responsibility for
overseeing management’s actions and determining whether the Step
Two Transactions would render Tribune insolvent did not
adequately discharge their duties,” Klee wrote.  
 The lower-ranking creditors, who would be paid nothing
under Tribune’s reorganization plan, have said they plan to
oppose approval when it comes before U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Kevin J. Carey  in Wilmington, Delaware, on Aug. 30.  
 Those creditors, who are owed $1.2 billion, have sued
 JPMorgan  and the other lenders. They want the loans that funded
the buyout to lose their payment priority.  
 In step two of the transaction, Tribune borrowed $3.6
billion and paid fees to its lenders, according to court
documents.  
 Klee concluded that New York-based JPMorgan was likely to
be exonerated from any allegations of bad faith for the first
part of the buyout. The bank wasn’t likely to be cleared
regarding the second part, he said.  
 Creditors Divided  
 Creditors in similar bankruptcy cases filed since 2007 will
look at the report carefully, said  Harold Kaplan , an attorney in
Chicago with Foley & Lardner. The findings may influence
creditors of companies that went through leveraged buyouts when
values peaked and were forced into bankruptcy by the recession,
he said.  
 “Everyone is now asking, ‘Did the buyout overpay and
saddle the entity with more debt than was justified?’” Kaplan,
who isn’t involved in the Tribune case, said in an interview
before the report was filed.  
 The  buyout  has divided creditors. The lenders behind the
deal are split over whether to fight the allegations of lower-
ranking creditors or settle with some of them, according to
court documents.  
 Creditors have said that Klee’s conclusions may affect how
they vote on Tribune’s reorganization plan. Carey must take that
vote into consideration before he decides whether to approve the
plan and allow the company to leave bankruptcy.  
 Right to Sue  
 Tribune’s plan asks creditors to give up their right to  sue 
insiders, including Zell, and the lenders who financed the
buyout over claims they left the company insolvent.  
 Tribune owns the Los Angeles Times, the Chicago Tribune and
broadcasting stations in Los Angeles and other U.S. markets, as
well as stakes in cable channels.  
 Tribune complained in court papers earlier yesterday about
Klee’s decision to withhold certain details of the report from
the company and other parties in the case until after an Aug. 9
court hearing.  
 The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        