-- Tribune Seeks Faster Access to Court Report on Buyout
-- Steven Church
-- 2010-07-26T22:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/tribune-seeks-faster-access-to-examiner-s-report-on-zell-buyout-of-company.html

          
          
             Tribune Co. asked a bankruptcy judge
to let a court-appointed examiner speed delivery of his full
report on the publisher’s 2007 buyout to the parties in the case
to avoid delaying the publisher’s exit from bankruptcy.  
 Bankruptcy examiner Kenneth N. Klee said he will file a
heavily redacted copy of the report today, without giving any
party in the case some details until a court hearing on Aug. 9.
Klee said he supports Tribune’s request to make the full report
available to parties in the bankruptcy before then.  
 Waiting until Aug. 9 “could be highly disruptive” to
Tribune’s plan to seek approval of its bankruptcy exit plan on
Aug. 30, the company said.  
 In a court filing late this afternoon, Klee said the entire
report should be given to the public as well.  
 “Any remaining claims of confidentiality with respect to
the report, the exhibits or the transcripts are not well
founded,” he said in today’s filing.  
 Last week, Klee complained in court papers that
confidentiality claims by parties make it impossible to release
key details about the buyout without approval from U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Kevin J. Carey.  
 Klee was appointed by the judge to evaluate allegations the
buyout violated bankruptcy law.  
 Tribune filed for bankruptcy in December 2008, a year after
real-estate billionaire  Sam Zell  led the  buyout . Some lower-
ranking creditors allege the buyout was a fraudulent transfer
because it added more than $8 billion in debt to the Chicago-
based company while benefiting only Zell and  shareholders .  
 The  buyout  has divided creditors. The lenders behind the
deal are split over whether to fight the allegations of lower-
ranking creditors or settle with some of them, according to
court documents.  
 The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        