-- Roche's Genentech Licenses NovImmune Antibody for Auto-Immune Diseases
-- Dermot Doherty
-- 2010-07-26T10:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/roche-s-genentech-licenses-novimmune-antibody-for-auto-immune-diseases.html

          
          
             Roche Holding AG’s Genentech unit
agreed to buy rights to an experimental medicine being developed
by  NovImmune SA , a closely held Swiss biotechnology  company .  
 Genentech is gaining an early-stage compound, a so-called
anti-IL-17 fully human monoclonal antibody, that may be
developed to treat inflammatory and autoimmune diseases, Geneva-
based NovImmune said today. The company didn’t provide financial
details of the accord.  
 NovImmune has developed its own technology to make
monoclonal antibodies, or bioengineered molecules that mimic the
action of the body’s own response to infections. The Swiss
biotechnology company will get an upfront payment from Genentech
and may receive milestone and royalty payments for the anti-IL-
17 antibody, which has yet to be tested in people, as well as
additional back-up compounds. NovImmune expects Genentech to
begin testing the IL-17 compound in people next year.  
 “Genentech knows the IL-17 space inside out and will
decide the first indication, but an obvious one would be
rheumatoid arthritis,” Chief Executive Officer  Jack Barbut  said
today in a telephone interview. “We also expect testing to be
expanded to include other indications like multiple sclerosis.”  
 The company’s decision four years ago to create its own
drug-development platform has made it less reliant on the
technology it licensed from Medarex Inc. and Cambridge Antibody
Technology Group Plc, both of which have been acquired.  
 ‘Well Financed”  
 While NovImmune is “well financed,” the company plans to
raise additional capital in the near term to enable it to move
three new compounds into clinical testing over the next 12-24
months, Barbut said. The company is also in talks with other
drugmakers over licensing deals and would consider selling
shares to the public, he said.  
 “If a window were to open, we would of course consider it
as it would allow us to raise the funds to accelerate our
development,” Barbut said. “It really depends on the IPO
window, the market and the data we produce.”  
 NovImmune has raised about 154 million francs ($146
million) in four major rounds of financing and its investors
include BZ Bank,  Novartis Venture Fund  and Pictet Private Equity
Fund. The company last year bought back rights to two of its
compounds from  Merck KGaA’s  Serono unit after raising 62.5
million Swiss francs from investors.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dermot Doherty  in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        