-- Roger Federer Hires Former Pete Sampras Coach Paul Annacone on Trial Basis
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-07-26T17:23:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/roger-federer-hires-former-pete-sampras-coach-paul-annacone-on-trial-basis.html

          
          
             Roger Federer  hired  Pete Sampras ’s
former coach  Paul Annacone  on a trial basis as he seeks to
regain his No. 1 ranking in men’s tennis.  
 “I’ve been looking to add someone to my team and I’ve
decided to spend some days with Paul,” Federer, 28, who lost in
the quarterfinals of the French Open and Wimbledon, said in a
 statement  on his website today.  
 Annacone will be leaving his job as head coach of the
U.K.’s Lawn Tennis Association at the end of November after more
than three years. Before his time with the LTA, the American
coached 14-time major winner and former world No. 1 Sampras and
 Tim Henman , previously British No. 1.  
 “As Paul winds down his responsibilities working for the
LTA, we will explore our relationship through this test
period,” said Federer, who lost his No. 1 ranking to  Rafael Nadal  after the Spaniard won the French Open. He didn’t specify
how long they’ll work together.  
 Federer, holder of a record 16 Grand Slam titles, had been
guided by Australian coaches Peter Carter, who died in 2002, and
 Tony Roche . Since splitting from Roche in 2007, the Swiss has
worked with his nation’s Davis Cup captain Severin Luthi.  
 After appearing in every Wimbledon final since 2003,
Federer was beaten in the quarterfinals on the London grass
courts this year by  Tomas Berdych  of the Czech Republic. As
defending champion, Federer was upset by Sweden’s  Robin Soderling  in the quarterfinals of the French Open, ending his
record streak of 23 straight Grand Slam semifinals.  
 His loss to Berdych pushed Federer to his current ranking
of  No. 3  on the ATP World Tour, his lowest since Nov. 10, 2003.  
 He’s scheduled to return to the men’s tour in Toronto on
Aug. 7. He’ll compete in the Rogers Cup, a warmup event for the
U.S. Open, which starts Aug. 30 in New York.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        