-- Rupee Rises a Fourth Day on Speculation India Central Bank May Raise Rates
-- Anil Varma
-- 2010-07-26T04:23:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/rupee-rises-a-fourth-day-on-speculation-india-central-bank-may-raise-rates.html

          
          
             India’s rupee rose for a fourth day
as economists forecast the central bank will increase borrowing
costs tomorrow, boosting yields on local assets and attracting
investment.  
 The currency climbed to near a one-week high after exchange
data showed overseas holdings of the nation’s stocks and bonds
touched all-time highs of  $81.7 billion  and  $15.4 billion  this
month. The  Reserve Bank of India  will raise its reverse
repurchase  rate  by a quarter percentage point to 4.25 percent,
according to all 20  economists  surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 “Everyone is looking for the RBI to tighten rates this
week,” said  Emmanuel Ng , a currency strategist at Oversea-
Chinese Banking Corp. in Singapore. “We are neutral on the
rupee, not looking for any significant outperformance in spite
of the rate hikes.”  
 The currency appreciated 0.2 percent to 46.86 per dollar as
of 9:28 a.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The rupee may trade between 46.60 and 47.20 this week, Ng
predicted.  
 Offshore forward contracts indicated the rupee will trade
at 47.45 to the dollar in three months, compared with
expectations for a rate of 47.51 at the end of last week.
Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and
date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  
 Yields on government bonds have risen as the Reserve Bank
raised its benchmark rate by a quarter point each in March,
April and earlier this month. The yield on 10-year  government
debt  rose to 7.69 percent today, the most in almost three
months. The rate was the highest among the so-called BRIC
countries that include Brazil, Russia and China.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anil Varma  in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        