-- Russia's Drought Raises Bondholder Risk on Prices
-- Maria Kolesnikova
-- 2010-07-27T13:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/russian-drought-raises-bondholder-risk-on-rising-grain-price-funding-need.html

          
          
             Russia’s worst drought in a decade
will probably generate losses for bondholders as food prices
rise and the government may be pushed to tap debt markets for
funds to support farmers.  
 High temperatures, which rose to a record 37.4 Celsius (99
Fahrenheit) yesterday in Moscow, have damaged 32 percent of land
under cultivation and forced Russia to declare states of
emergency in 23 regions. Grain prices may double this year
because of the drought, according to the Grain Producers’ Union.  
 Inflation may quicken to 8.1 percent by the end of
December, compared with the government’s annual forecast of 6
percent, according to  Yaroslav Lissovolik , Deutsche Bank AG’s
head of research in Moscow. That will put pressure on Bank
Rossii to raise its benchmark rate by year-end for the first
time since December 2008, said  Natalia Orlova , Moscow-based
chief economist at Alfa Bank.  
 Higher rates “may cause a correction in short-term
sovereign bonds and, later, in long-term sovereign bonds,” said
Evgeniy Nadorshin, senior economist at Trust Investment Bank in
Moscow.  
 The government, which plans to sell 1.2 trillion rubles
($39.3 billion) of bonds on the domestic market this year to
finance its budget deficit, may increase that figure to pay for
subsidies and contain the drought’s fallout, Nadorshin said.  
 Bond Yields  
 “The risk of higher spending makes the government likely
to borrow more,” he said. “This in turn creates a risk that
bond yields will increase.”  
 So far, the government has been reluctant to pay more to
sell its debt.  
 The Treasury last week failed to sell 30 billion rubles of
federal bonds, known as OFZs, due July 2015. At a subsequent
auction the same day, it sold 11 billion rubles of notes due
January 2013, compared with the 15 billion rubles planned. The
average yield was 6.28 percent. A week earlier the Treasury sold
11 billion rubles of 2012 notes at 5.92 percent, falling short
of the 20 billion rubles offered.  
 “It’s highly likely rates on bonds will increase,” said
 Vladimir Osakovsky , chief economist in Moscow at ZAO UniCredit
Bank. The July 21 auction “supports this view.”  
 Record Heat  
 The government has signalled it may pay higher rates as it
floods the market with debt. Deputy Finance Minister  Dmitry Pankin  said in a July 19 interview the treasury “may offer a
premium” over secondary market rates at this month’s auctions.  
 Yesterday’s temperature in Moscow was the highest since
Russia began keeping records 130 years ago, according to the
website of the Hydrometeorological Monitoring Service. The
previous high was 36.8 degrees in July 1920, during the Civil
War. The temperature may rise to 38 degrees on July 29,
according to Gidromettsentr, the state weather service.  
 Russia, the world’s third-biggest wheat exporter, will
harvest about 80 million metric tons of grain this season, 17
percent less than last year, according to Moscow-based
researcher SovEcon. Grain prices rose as much as 33 percent last
week on drought concerns, SovEcon said on its  website .  
 The harvest may be less than 80 million tons, Deputy
Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said today. “The scope of the
drought is serious,” he said, adding that there is “no basis
for panic.”  
 Drought is likely to have a bigger impact on  prices in
Russia  than in other countries, Orlova said. Food accounts for
38 percent of the consumer price index in Russia, compared with
15 percent in the U.S. and 32 percent in China, Alfa estimates.  
 Grain Price  
 A domestic economic recovery also may encourage retailers
to pass on higher grain prices to consumers.  Unemployment  fell
0.5 point to 6.8 percent last month. Retail sales grew an annual
5.8 percent and have risen every month this year.  
 “This intensifies inflationary risks and justifies our
expectations of higher inflationary pressure in the second
half,” Orlova said.  
 Pavel Skurikhin, head of the Grain Producers’ Union, said
higher grain prices won’t lead to a “spike” in the cost of
bread. The cost of grain accounts for no more than 15 percent of
bread prices, he said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin’s  administration may try to
limit inflation by releasing grain from storage or curbing
exports to distance itself from Russia’s history of volatile
prices, said  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at UralSib Financial
Corp. in Moscow.  
 The inflation rate reached 120 percent in 1999 after Russia
defaulted on $40 billion of domestic debt, and prices rose more
than 2,000 percent in 1992, a year after the fall of communism.  
 ‘Decisive Month’  
 “Inflation control is one of the government’s most
important priorities,” Weafer said. “It is by no means a given
that prices will therefore be allowed to rise as a result of the
weather, even if the economic conditions warrant.”  
 The inflation rate fell to a record-low 5.8 percent in
June, the statistics office said July 5. Last year’s record 7.9
percent economic contraction allowed the central bank to cut its
 benchmark  14 times to a record low 7.75 percent in May as demand
eased and price increases slowed.  
 “August will be the decisive month” for the interest-rate
outlook as the inflationary impact becomes clearer, said  Julia Tsepliaeva , head of research at BNP Paribas in Moscow.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net 
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Elvira Nabiullina, Russia's economy minister, speaks during an interview at the Economy Ministry in Moscow. Photographer: Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
