-- Sanofi Cuts Outlook After FDA Approves Lovenox Copy
-- Marthe Fourcade
-- 2010-07-26T16:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/sanofi-cuts-outlook-on-lovenox-threat-says-2010-eps-may-decline-up-to-4-.html

          
          
             Sanofi-Aventis SA , the French
drugmaker that made a takeover approach to  Genzyme Corp.  two
weeks ago, said profit may fall this year after U.S. regulators
approved a generic rival to its Lovenox blood thinner.  
 Earnings per share at France’s biggest drugmaker will be
unchanged at best and may decline as much as 4 percent at
constant exchange rates, the Paris-based drugmaker said in an e-
mailed statement. Sanofi’s previous estimate was for an increase
of 2 percent to 5 percent this year.  
 The loss of U.S. marketing exclusivity on Lovenox shows why
Sanofi is interested in buying Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
 Genzyme , said  Gbola Amusa , a UBS AG analyst in London. The
company made a takeover approach to  Genzyme  about two weeks ago,
two people with knowledge of the matter said July 23. Genzyme
rebuffed the approach, two people with knowledge of the matter
said.  Jean-Marc Podvin , a spokesman for Sanofi, declined to
comment today.  
 “Five or six of their top eight drugs are in the process
of or will go generic this year and companies losing drugs are
under more pressure to fill that gap,” Amusa said in a phone
interview. He has a “neutral” rating on Sanofi shares and
doesn’t cover Genzyme, which is the largest maker of medicines
for genetic diseases.  
 Sanofi shares rose 8 cents, or 0.2 percent, to 45.59 euros
in Paris trading. The stock slid 4.3 percent on July 23 after
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved a lower-cost copy
of Lovenox from  Novartis AG  and Momenta Pharmaceuticals Inc.  
 Five-Year Wait  
 The decision ended a five-year wait to challenge the $3.9
billion-a-year product. Lovenox, an injection used to help
prevent blood clots that can cause strokes, was Sanofi’s second-
biggest product last year.  
 The loss of patent protection is already reflected in
Sanofi’s share price, according to  Graham Parry , an analyst at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch in London. He raised his rating on
Sanofi to “buy” from “neutral” today. “We now see Sanofi’s
valuation as too compelling to ignore,” Parry wrote in a report
to clients. An acquisition of Genzyme also may boost earnings
per share, he wrote.  
 The French drugmaker “has reservations” about the
approval, Sanofi said in the statement. The company “is
concerned by potential implications to patient safety, since the
product approved has not been subjected to extensive clinical
trials to demonstrate its efficacy and safety.”  
 Genzyme Approaches  
 Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher , who joined Sanofi
in 2008, sought new products, shut plants and canceled the least
promising research projects in a bid to trim 2 billion euros
($2.59 billion) in costs as competition from generic drugs hurts
sales. He pledged that 2013 earnings would be at least equal to
2008 profit, an objective that the company reiterated in its
statement on Lovenox.  
 London-based GlaxoSmithKline Plc recently made a “very
casual” overture to Genzyme, asking the biotechnology company
to keep it in mind if Genzyme considered selling itself, the
Wall Street Journal reported, citing an unidentified person
familiar with the matter.  Alex Harrison , a Glaxo spokeswoman,
declined to comment.  
 Glaxo  fell  15 pence, or 1.3 percent, to 1,172 pence in
London. The stock has lost 8.7 percent including reinvested
dividends this year,  compared with  an increase of less than 0.3
percent for the Bloomberg European Pharmaceutical Index.  
 Sanofi’s Invitation  
 Sanofi’s approach to Genzyme was an invitation to enter
into merger talks, without any discussion of price, said two
people with knowledge of the matter, who declined to be named
because the talks are private. Genzyme surged 15 percent to
$62.52 at 4 p.m. New York time July 23 in Nasdaq Stock Market
composite trading.  
 Acquiring Genzyme would help Sanofi expand in
biotechnology. Viehbacher briefed Sanofi’s board the week of
June 28 on plans for a major acquisition in the U.S., two other
people with knowledge of the situation said.  
 Viehbacher is counting on acquisitions to help replace
revenue lost to generic competition. Sanofi has spent about $17
billion on 25 acquisitions since he joined, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marthe Fourcade  at 
 mfourcade@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Sanofi-Aventis SA chief executive officer Chris Viehbacher. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
