-- Saudi King a No Show as Treasures Glitter in Louvre Exhibition
-- Jorg von Uthmann
-- 2010-07-26T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/saudi-king-a-no-show-as-treasures-glitter-in-louvre-show-jorg-von-uthmann.html

          
          
             Paris is abuzz with rumors about
 King Abdullah  of Saudi Arabia and why he didn’t show up, as
planned, at the opening of the  Louvre’s  first show devoted to
his country.  
 Was he furious at an article in the newspaper “Le Figaro”
quoting him on June 29 -- falsely, say the Saudis -- as having
said to  Herve Morin , the French minister of defense, that two
countries, Iran and Israel, didn’t deserve to exist?  
 Or was the 85-year-old monarch just tired after the G20
summit in Toronto and his subsequent trip to Washington?  
 Whatever the reason, his absence shouldn’t discourage you
from visiting “Routes d’Arabie: Archeologie et Histoire du
Royaume d’Arabie Saoudite.” It’s a show full of surprises.  
 Compared with other Middle Eastern countries, Saudi Arabia
is little known for its archaeological sites. The strictly
religious government has been in no hurry to direct attention to
the pre-Islamic period of “Jahiliya,” or ignorance.  
 Most of the 300 items have never left the country before.
In return, the Louvre has cleaned and restored many pieces.  
 The oldest -- steles representing humans or gods -- are
from the fourth millennium B.C. They are primitive, yet not
without expression.  
 From there, you proceed to the first millennium B.C. and
the mysterious kingdom of Lihyan in the northwestern corner of
the peninsula with its capital Dedan, today’s Al-Ula. The
muscular giants on display may remind you of Egyptian statues.  
 Dedan was an important caravansary on the Incense Road, the
network of ancient trading routes that linked Persia and India
with the Mediterranean world. The road ended in Gaza.  
 Young Princess  
 Another caravansary was the lost city of Gerrha in the east
of the peninsula. In 1998, a burial mound of a young princess
was discovered in that region; its contents -- a golden mask,
golden gloves and various pieces of jewelry --show Greek
influence.  
 The Lihyanites were driven out by the Nabateans whose
capital Petra (in today’s Jordan) is one of the wonders of the
world. Few have heard of their second city Hejra (Mada’in Salih)
in Saudi Arabia boasting the same sensational funerary
architecture carved into the cliffs.  
 In 106 A.D., Roman forces entered Petra, and the Nabatean
kingdom ceased to exist. Several items in the show have Latin
inscriptions.  
 The second part covers Saudi Arabia’s Islamic past. Much of
what you find here -- pottery, incense burners, manuscripts of
the Koran -- you may have seen in other Muslim countries.  
 Mohammed’s Wives  
 The exceptions are the tombstones from Jannat al Maala, a
cemetery near Mecca, where one of Mohammed’s 11 (or 13) wives
and other VIPs are buried. They are believed to be the first to
rise with the Prophet on the Day of Judgment.  
 Another highlight is a silver-plated door to the Kaaba, the
huge cubic stone in the center of Mecca’s Grand Mosque that
attracts millions of pilgrims every year. The door, covered with
calligraphy and vegetal ornaments, was a gift from Sultan Murad
IV in 1636; it was replaced in the 1930s.  
 The show ends with a map of the Hejaz railroad, dear to
admirers of Lawrence of Arabia, and insignia of  Ibn Saud , the
founder of Saudi Arabia and the father of the present ruler.  
 The exhibition, which is supported by Total SA, runs
through Sept. 27. Information:  http://www.louvre.fr  or
+33-1-4020-5317.  
 ( Jorg von Uthmann  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Jorg von Uthmann  in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Lihyanite Statue  
                       
                         
                           Thierry Ollivier/Musee du Louvre via Bloomberg 
                         
                         A statue from the ancient Arabian kingdom of Lihyan in the first millennium B.C. The work is on loan from the Royal University, Saudi Arabia, to the "Arabian Roads" exhibition, on view at the Louvre Museum through Sept. 27. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A statue from the ancient Arabian kingdom of Lihyan in the first millennium B.C. The work is on loan from the Royal University, Saudi Arabia, to the "Arabian Roads" exhibition, on view at the Louvre Museum through Sept. 27. Photographer: Thierry Ollivier/Musee du Louvre via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Anthropomorphic Stele  
                       
                         
                           Michael Harvey/Musee du Louvre via Bloomberg 
                         
                         An anthropomorphic stele from the fourth millennium B.C. The work is on loan from the National Museum in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, to the "Arabian Roads" exhibition at the Louvre Museum, on view through Sept. 27. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     An anthropomorphic stele from the fourth millennium B.C. The work is on loan from the National Museum in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, to the "Arabian Roads" exhibition at the Louvre Museum, on view through Sept. 27. Photographer: Michael Harvey/Musee du Louvre via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Tombstone  
                       
                         
                           Thierry Ollivier/Musee du Louvre via Bloomberg 
                         
                         A tombstone from the ninth century A.D. The artifact is on loan from the National Museum of Riyadh, Saudi Arabia to the "Arabian Roads" exhibition at the Louvre Museum, on view through Sept. 27. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A tombstone from the ninth century A.D. The artifact is on loan from the National Museum of Riyadh, Saudi Arabia to the "Arabian Roads" exhibition at the Louvre Museum, on view through Sept. 27. Photographer: Thierry Ollivier/Musee du Louvre via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Door to the Kaaba  
                       
                         
                           Musee du Louvre via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The ancient door to the Kaaba. The artifact is on loan from the National Museum in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, to the show "Arabian Roads," on view at the Louvre Museum through Sept. 27. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The ancient door to the Kaaba. The artifact is on loan from the National Museum in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, to the show "Arabian Roads," on view at the Louvre Museum through Sept. 27. Source: Musee du Louvre via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
