-- Servier Charged With Misleading EU Antitrust Probe on Generic Drug Market
-- Stephanie Bodoni
-- 2010-07-26T16:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/servier-charged-with-misleading-eu-antitrust-probe-on-generic-drug-market.html

          
          
             Les Laboratoires Servier, France’s
second-largest drugmaker, was charged with misleading a European
Union probe into potential antitrust violations by companies
seeking to keep cheaper generic medicine out of the EU market.  
 Servier could face a fine of as much as 1 percent of its
annual revenue if the European Commission, antitrust agency for
the 27 EU nations, concludes the French company “intentionally
or negligently” submitted incorrect data.  
 “The commission’s provisional view is that it has evidence
that Servier has provided misleading and incorrect
information,” the regulator said today in an e-mailed
statement.  
 The commission, based in Brussels, started a probe of the
pharmaceutical industry in January 2008. In a  report  last year,
it found that companies use a variety of techniques to delay the
introduction of generics “for as long as possible.”  
 Servier “will fully cooperate” with the commission, the
Neuilly-sur-Seine, France-based company said in an e-mailed
statement, confirming it got the charge sheet today.  
 “Getting such a communication doesn’t prejudge the final
outcome,” the company said in the statement.  
 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. , the world’s biggest
generic-drug maker, Denmark’s H. Lundbeck A/S and other
pharmaceutical companies were raided last December as part of
the ongoing probe. The December raids were the third in a series
by the commission, which had previously raided Servier’s offices
in November 2008.  
 AstraZeneca Plc  earlier this month lost a court challenge
to an EU decision finding it had misled patent officials and
abused its dominant position by hindering the marketing of
generic versions of its Prilosec heartburn medicine.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Brussels via 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        