-- Stock Short Sales at 2-Year Low, Data Explorers Says
-- Nikolaj Gammeltoft
-- 2010-07-26T18:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/short-sales-drop-to-two-year-low-on-stocks-worldwide-data-explorers-says.html

          
          
             Investors are exiting bearish bets
on global equities, pushing bullish wagers on stocks to a two-
year high versus short sales, according to Data Explorers.  
 The firm’s long-short ratio has risen to 9.5, having surged
from 5.75 in September 2008 when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
collapse intensified the financial crisis, the London- and New
York-based securities-research company said. The reading is the
highest of the data that goes as far back as July 2008.  
 Stocks  have rebounded worldwide following higher-than-
estimated profit at companies from Adidas AG to Citigroup Inc.
and Advanced Micro Devices Inc. The  MSCI World Index  of shares
in 24 developed nations has risen 8.4 percent in July after
losing 13 percent between March and June. U.S. equities had
posted the biggest rally since the Great Depression.  
 “Short sellers are now taking money off the table,” said
 Will Duff Gordon , a senior researcher at Data Explorers in
London. “Perhaps the bears are going back into hibernation?”  
 Short selling is the sale of borrowed stock in the hope of
profiting by buying the securities later at a lower price and
returning them to the shareholder. The Data Explorers gauge
divides the value of stock available for lending from investment
firms by the amount borrowed by short sellers.  
 19-Month High  
 The Data Explorers ratio has risen from less than 8 in
April. The S&P 500 reached a 19-month high on April 23 before
falling 16 percent through July 2 amid concern economic growth
in the U.S. and China is slowing.  
 The S&P 500, the benchmark measure of U.S. equities, has
rallied 8.7 percent since July 2. More than 83 percent of the
companies in the index that have reported results since July 12
have beaten the average analyst profit estimate. The
International Monetary Fund boosted its forecast for 2010 global
growth to 4.6 percent from 4.2 percent on July 8 after a
stronger-than-expected first half. That would be the largest
gain since 2007.  
 Equities rose today, erasing the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average ’s 2010 loss, after new-home sales beat the median
economist estimate and  FedEx Corp.  raised its profit forecast.  
 Barton Biggs , the hedge fund manager who sold half his
equity holdings at the start of July, said today that signs the
U.S. economy will avoid a recession spurred him to build the
stakes back up.  
 Biggs, whose Traxis Partners LLC gained 38 percent in 2009
when he bought shares as the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell to
a 12-year low, said bets that stocks will advance make up 75
percent of his fund, up from about 35 percent three weeks ago.
Biggs said on July 2 that concern governments around the world
would curtail stimulus measures too soon led him to sell almost
all of his U.S. technology holdings.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Jonathan Stubbs, head of European and U.K. equity strategy at Citigroup Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about the results of the stress tests for European banks and his investment strategy.
     Stubbs, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for the global economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
