-- Singapore's Output Rises at Slowest Pace Since February as Demand Cools
-- Shamim Adam
-- 2010-07-26T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/singapore-s-output-rises-at-slowest-pace-since-february-as-demand-cools.html

          
          
             Singapore’s  industrial production 
rose at the slowest pace in four months in June as
pharmaceutical and electronic manufacturers made fewer goods,
suggesting demand may ease as the global recovery cools.  
 Output at factories, which accounts for about a quarter of
the economy, climbed 26.1 percent in June from a year earlier,
after a revised 58.4 percent surge in May, the  Economic
Development Board  said in a statement today. The median estimate
of 10 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News was for a 38.4
percent gain.  
 Singapore’s economy grew at a record pace in the first half
as demand for its computer chips and manufactured goods
recovered from a trade slowdown that pushed the nation into a
recession last year. The outlook for the rebound is clouded as
governments in Europe embark on austerity programs to cut
deficits and households in some of the world’s largest economies
hold back spending.  
 “The growth momentum in the manufacturing sector is set to
slow in the months ahead,”  Irvin Seah , an economist at DBS
Group Holdings Ltd. in Singapore, said before the report. “A
subpar recovery in the U.S., slowdown in eurozone as well as
tighter policy conditions in Asia are factors pointing to weaker
external demand and industrial production ahead.”  
 Production in the second quarter rose 44.5 percent, less
than the government’s preliminary estimate earlier this month of
45.5 percent. Singapore’s economy  accelerated  to an
unprecedented 18.1 percent pace in the first half, prompting the
government to raise its GDP forecast for the third time this
year to as much as 15 percent.  
 Electronics Exports  
 Electronics shipments  by companies including Venture Corp.,
Singapore’s biggest electronics contract manufacturer, climbed
43.9 percent in June from a year earlier, while pharmaceutical
shipments rose 29.8 percent, a report this month showed.  
 Singapore’s non-oil domestic  exports  will probably gain
between 17 percent and 19 percent in 2010, from a previous
projection of as much as 17 percent, the trade promotion agency
said July 14.  
 Industrial production  dropped a seasonally adjusted 23.4
percent in June from May, when it advanced 5.2 percent from a
month earlier.  
 Electronics production jumped 46.8 percent from a year
earlier, following a revised 52.1 percent gain in May.
Pharmaceutical output climbed 30.8 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        