-- Soros-Backed SKS Microfinance Seeks as Much as $347 Million in Indian IPO
-- Ruth David
-- 2010-07-26T05:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/sks-microfinance-to-sell-shares-in-ipo-at-850-rupees-to-985-rupees-each.html

          
          
             SKS Microfinance Ltd. , the Indian
lender backed by Sequoia Capital and  George Soros , raised its
initial public offering to as much as 16.3 billion rupees ($347
million) after six quarters of gains by the key equity index.  
 Shares in the Hyderabad-based company will be offered from
July 28 for 850 rupees to 985 rupees each, with a 50 rupees
discount for retail buyers, according to an advertisement in the
Financial Express newspaper today. Kotak Mahindra Capital Co.,
Citigroup Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG are managing the IPO.
The company in March had said it would seek $250 million.  
 SKS, India’s largest microfinance company, has lured
investors including Soros and billionaire  N.R. Narayana Murthy 
on expectation credit to the nation’s poorest may surge by more
than 40 percent in a market where about 120 million households
don’t have access to banking and financial services.  
 “The basic appeal lies in the fact that it’s a high-growth
segment of the financing market,”  Apurva Shah , head of research
at Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt., said by phone from Mumbai.
“Whether lenders will be able to maintain asset quality when
they scale up remains a big risk.”  
 SKS provides loans from $22 to $260 each for women raising
cows or opening a village tea stall in a nation where 828
million people live on less than $2 a day. India has an untapped
credit demand of 1.2 trillion rupees, according to  Crisil
Ratings , the Indian unit of Standard & Poor’s.  
 Market Growth  
 Microfinance lending in India, the world’s largest market
for such loans, may surge about 40 percent annually over the
next few years, according to  Sanjay Sinha , managing director at
Micro-Credit Ratings in New Delhi, which provides ratings
services to potential investors. Prabhudas’s Shah estimates the
industry may expand at almost 50 percent for the next few years.  
 SKS, which received a non-banking finance company license
from the Reserve Bank of India in 2006 and currently has 5.3
million customers, is India’s largest microfinance company by
value of loans outstanding, the number of borrowers and number
of branches, according to Crisil.  
 The offering cements Citigroup’s No. 1 ranking among banks
managing share sales in India for a second consecutive year,
after it advised companies including state-run NMDC Ltd. and
NTPC Ltd. on raising funds, according to Bloomberg data. Kotak
Mahindra is ranked second, followed by UBS AG.  
 A 21.6 percent stake in SKS will be offered to investors,
with 7.45 million new shares to be sold by the company and 9.35
million shares by existing investors, according to a July 16
sale  document . At least 5.03 million shares will be made
available to retail bidders. The offer period ends on Aug. 2,
with institutional investors allowed to bid until July 30.  
 Sequoia, Soros  
 U.S. venture capital firm Sequoia, one of Google Inc. and
Yahoo! Inc.’s early investors, plans to sell about a third of
the SKS holding it has accumulated since March 2007 in the IPO.  
 Soros’s Quantum (M) Ltd. hedge fund, which bought 300,000
shares for 636 rupees each in recent weeks, will hold a 0.4
percent stake after the sale, according to the prospectus.
Murthy’s Catamaran Management Services Pvt. will own 1.3 percent.  
 Indian companies have garnered more than 654 billion rupees
from share sales this year, according to Bloomberg data, putting
the market on course to exceed 2008’s record 782 billion rupees.  
 Foreign fund inflows to Indian stocks have increased 35
percent this year to $8.86 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. India’s benchmark Sensitive Index climbed for a
sixth quarter in the past three months, the  longest rally  based
on data going back to 1979.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ruth David  in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     N.R. Narayana Murthy, chairman of Infosys Technologies Ltd., looks on at Infosys Technologies 29th Annual General Meeting in Bangalore. Photographer: Namas Bhojani/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
