-- Small Businesses Find Chamber, Lobby Allies Mute on $30 Billion U.S. Aid
-- Mark Drajem
-- 2010-07-26T23:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/small-businesses-find-chamber-lobby-allies-mute-on-30-billion-u-s-aid.html

          
          
             Small U.S. businesses pushing for a
$30 billion federal lending fund are making their case without
the support of some supposed allies: Washington lobbying groups
that say they represent small businesses.  
 Three of the largest groups -- the  U.S. Chamber of
Commerce , National Federation of Independent Business and
National Association of Manufacturers -- were mostly silent
during a debate last week over an amendment authorizing the
fund, which cleared a legislative hurdle late July 22. A final
vote is planned for this week.  
 The neutrality of these organizations, which together spent
more than  $47 million lobbying  in the first six months of this
year, left car-parts makers, franchise owners and community
banks on their own to argue for the funding.  
 “Credit is a terrible problem” for small businesses, said
 Fred Knapp , president of the South Carolina Small Business
Chamber of Commerce, which is based in Columbia. “These groups
are tied to big businesses. That’s all this is about.”  
 Knapp’s group, which is nonpartisan, isn’t a member of the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce and broke with the manufacturers’ and
independent business groups to support health-care and Wall
Street legislation this year.  
 For the past month the Senate has debated a bill meant to
help small businesses get the capital they need to expand and
hire workers. The measure would ease terms for loans guaranteed
by the Small Business Administration, provide $12 billion in tax
breaks and issue grants to states to provide business loans.  
 $30 Billion Amendment  
 Its passage is crucial to boost employment because small
businesses hire most workers, President  Barack Obama  said.  
 “I hope we can now finish the job and pass the small-
business jobs plan without delay and without additional partisan
wrangling,” Obama said at the White House July 23.  
 The previous night, the Senate voted 60-39 to proceed with
an amendment offered by Louisiana Democrat  Mary Landrieu  that
would provide $30 billion to banks with less than $10 billion in
assets to encourage them to lend to small businesses. The cost
of paying back those capital infusions would decline based on
the level of small-business lending by the bank.  
 A second vote on that amendment is necessary when the bill
comes up for a final debate this week. Landrieu, chairman of the
Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committee, called it the
most important part of the legislation.  
 “This is really the core of the small-business bill,”
Landrieu said on the Senate floor before the vote. “But for
some inexplicable reason this was going to be left on the
cutting room floor.”  
 Risky Loans  
 Critics call it a replay of the $700 billion bank bailout
in 2008, and say it could also induce banks to make risky loans.  
 “The lack of credit for small businesses is a problem that
needs to be addressed,” Alabama Republican  Richard Shelby  said
during the Senate debate. “I do not, however, believe that we
should try and solve this problem with another expensive and
bureaucratic government program.”  
 Companies with fewer than 500 workers employ about half of
Americans and account for 60 percent of gross job creation,
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said July 12 at a
conference in Washington. One measure of banks’ loans to small
businesses fell to $670 billion from $710 billion during the
past two years, he said.  
 “Small businesses, which depend importantly on bank
credit, have been particularly hard-hit,” Bernanke testified at
a congressional hearing on July 21.  
 ‘Home Run’  
 The  National Federation of Independent Business  reported
this month that confidence among small businesses fell in June
to the lowest level in three months as their projections for
profits, sales and economic conditions weakened.  
 The Nashville, Tennessee-based group stayed neutral when
the small-business bill was debated in the House of
Representatives, where it passed on June 17, said  Bill Rys , tax
counsel for the group.  
 “There are parts of the bill we like, especially on the
tax side,” Rys said. “We think the lending facility would help
some small business, but we just don’t think it’s a home run.”  
 In a statement on the day of the Senate vote, the group
said sales, not credit, is the top issue facing its members.  
 “Currently small-business optimism in the economy is very
low,” the federation said. “Small-business owners are worried
about the threat of increased taxes, new health-care mandates,
higher energy costs and more regulations from Washington.”  
 The  National Association of Manufacturers , a Washington-
based group that says two-thirds of its members are small or
medium-sized businesses, is also pushing for a provision that
would cut taxes for companies that buy equipment, while staying
neutral on the entire legislation, said  Monica McGuire , policy
director at the group.  
 ‘Mixed Message’  
 The U.S. Chamber, which says 96 percent of its members are
small businesses, is sending “somewhat of a mixed message,”
Landrieu said at a Jobs Summit the group hosted July 14. “We’re
having a hard time digesting the conflicting information we’re
getting.”  
 Bruce Josten , top lobbyist for the Chamber, wrote lawmakers
on July 23 saying Washington’s biggest business advocacy group
supports the underlying tax and Small Business Administration
provisions. The letter doesn’t mention the $30 billion fund, and
the Chamber doesn’t have a position on it, spokesman J.P.
Fielder said.  
 “We’re reluctant to support this until we see the final
form,” Fielder said in an interview.  
 Critics say this silence shows the Chamber, which fought
against the financial regulation measure signed by Obama last
week, has its interests aligned with Wall Street banks, not Main
Street businesses.  
 ‘Lost Track’  
 “The Chamber has lost track of the small businesses they
are supposed to help,” said  Mike Gehrke , who runs an anti-
Chamber watchdog group funded by the labor federation Change to
Win. “If I were a local business I would ask for my dues money
back.”  
 Fielder said its support for the rest of the bill and other
measures shows the Chamber believes “access to capital through
financial institutions is critical for small enterprises.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Senator Richard Shelby Small Business Credit  
                       
                         
                           Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Senator Richard Shelby, a Republican from Alabama, said, “The lack of credit for small businesses is a problem that needs to be addressed.” 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Senator Richard Shelby, a Republican from Alabama, said, “The lack of credit for small businesses is a problem that needs to be addressed.” Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
