-- U.S. Small-Business Aid May Create $300 Billion of `Junk' Loans
-- David Henry
-- 2010-07-26T16:40:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/small-business-program-from-obama-may-create-300-billion-of-junk-loans.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  is on the
verge of creating as much as $300 billion in credit for small
businesses as bankers raise doubt about whether there’s  demand 
for new loans and how much will be  repaid .  
 The U.S. Senate may vote this week on a bill to funnel
$30 billion of capital to community banks, whose business
customers typically are small firms. Banks could leverage the
sum to make $300 billion in loans that create jobs, according to
a Senate summary. That could more than double the commercial and
industrial loans at eligible  banks  as of the first quarter,
according to data compiled by KBW Inc.  
 Bankers say the problem isn’t scarce credit, it’s lack of
demand from creditworthy firms in a weak economy. The result may
be more loans given to distressed firms and higher losses. While
bank regulators don’t compile default rates, the  biggest lenders 
have charge-offs of 4 percent to 14 percent tied to small
businesses.  Eliot Stark , managing director at  Capital Insight
Partners Inc. , said their credit record resembles “junk.”  
 “The highest demand for loans is from the companies least
qualified, the companies that have really struggled because of
the economic downturn,” said Stark, a former  Comerica Inc. 
executive whose Chicago-based investment bank helps community
lenders raise capital. The way lawmakers see it, “everyone’s a
good borrower, and that’s just not the case.”  
 Vote Pending  
 Obama’s program passed the House last month and is awaiting
Senate approval after disputes over the cost, tax breaks added
to the bill and concern that it’s another bank bailout like the
Troubled Asset Relief Program. Terms call for banks with assets
of less than $10 billion to receive U.S. Treasury Department
investments in preferred stock or other instruments to promote
small-business loans, according to Senate documents.  
 “If we can help the big banks, then we should certainly be
able to help small-business lending,” Obama said June 30. He’s
been pushing to increase credit for entrepreneurs since October
and summoned leaders of the biggest banks to the White House in
December. The Small Business Administration estimates the
nation’s 30 million small firms defined as those with fewer than
500 employees create 64 percent of  new jobs .  
 The Independent Community Bankers of America is “wildly
supportive” of the bill, said chief economist  Paul Merski ,
whose Washington-based lobby represents almost 5,000 lenders.
The American Bankers Association favors passage and the National
Federation of Independent Business, which lobbies for small
companies, says it supports financing for “creditworthy” firms
that have trouble getting loans.  
 Cost Estimate  
 Taxpayers could break even if the program is properly
structured so that interest and fees cover losses, Stark said.
Banks will be charged an initial interest rate of 5 percent,
declining to 1 percent if they increase small-business loans or
rising as high as 7 percent if the loans stay the same or
decrease, according to Richard Carbo, spokesman for the Senate
Small Business and Entrepreneurship committee.  
 The program will earn $1.1 billion over 10 years, and
“this is nothing like TARP,” Carbo said. With no cost to
taxpayers, “this is one of the most efficient bang-for-your
buck initiatives you can put forward,”  Gene Sperling , counselor
to the Treasury secretary, said in an interview.  
 Bank loans to small firms fell 5.6 percent to $670 billion
as of March from $710 billion in June 2008, according to the
Federal Reserve. First-quarter commercial and industrial loans
for commercial banks with $10 billion or less in assets -- the
threshold for the U.S. program -- totaled about $240 billion,
according to analyst  Melissa Roberts  at KBW in New York.  
 Default Rates  
 Bank of America Corp. , the biggest U.S. lender, is trying
to “make every good loan we can,” said  David Darnell ,
president of global commercial banking, in a June 3 statement.
“Our clients are telling us that until they see sales pick up,
they are reluctant to hire and invest.”  
 Wells Fargo & Co. , which says it’s the biggest small-
business lender, is “sitting here with tons of liquidity and
we’re marching double time in search of more loans,” Chief
Executive Officer  John Stumpf  said in an interview. “In most
cases when I hear stories about small businesses not getting
loans, it’s the case that more credit will not help them. They
need more equity, they need more profitability.”  
 Nationwide default rates for small businesses aren’t known,
say U.S. officials, with spokesmen for the Fed, Treasury and the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. saying their agencies don’t
compile a figure. Among the group of banks surveyed by KBW’s
Roberts, 2.81 percent of loans were non-current or charged off
as of the first quarter.  
 Write-Offs  
 Other gauges show higher defaults, with the SBA reporting a
6.8 percent rate this year on its main “7(a)” loan program
through May, higher than junk bonds. Defaults on U.S. corporate
speculative-grade debt since 1981 averaged 4.5 percent,
according to Standard & Poor’s.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. , ranked second by assets, reported
small-business charge-offs fell to 4.04 percent in the second
quarter from 4.70 percent a year earlier. Charge-offs for all
commercial loans at the New York-based bank were 0.74 percent.  
 Bank of America wrote off 14 percent of small-business
loans in  2010 ’s first half, more than 10 times the rate for
other commercial loans. Spokesman Jefferson George declined to
comment on the default rate. Citigroup Inc.’s  Robert Julavits 
said the New York bank doesn’t disclose its defaults.  
 More than 240 banks have failed since the start of 2009 as
consumers and businesses fell behind on loans. Most of the
failures were community lenders.  
 Small-business loans show higher credit losses than larger
companies in “good or bad” times, said American Express Co.
CEO  Kenneth I. Chenault  in a June 2 teleconference. Spokesman
Tom Sclafani said AmEx, which offers a line of credit cards to
small firms, doesn’t release default data.  
 Borrowers Balk  
 The biggest card firm dedicated to small business was
Advanta Corp., based in Spring House, Pennsylvania. Advanta cut
off its approximately 1 million accounts last year after
defaults soared to 20 percent. They eventually topped 50 percent
as small firms were “devastated” by the recession, according
to Advanta, which went bankrupt in November.  
 Small borrowers are higher risks because their size leaves
less room for error, bankers say. Half fail within their first
five years, according to the SBA, and the recession eroded the
value of hard assets such as property and equipment to pledge as
collateral, said  Alfred Osborne , senior associate dean of the
UCLA Anderson School of Management in Los Angeles.  
 “We can create lots of jobs making bad loans,” NFIB chief
economist  William Dunkelberg  said. “We did that during the
housing bubble.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laura Keeley  in New York at 
 lkeeley@bloomberg.net ;
 David Henry  in New York at 
 dhenry19@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. President Barack Obama. Photographer: Ron Sachs/Pool via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
