-- Nose Sniff Technology Enables Paralyzed to Navigate Wheelchairs, Write
-- Nicole Ostrow
-- 2010-07-26T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/sniffing-allows-paralyzed-to-interact-with-computers-navigate-wheelchairs.html

          
          
             A device operated by nose sniffs
allows disabled people, quadriplegics and those “locked in” by
complete  paralysis  to use computers or operate wheelchairs, an
Israeli study showed.  
 Quadriplegic patients were able to navigate wheelchairs as
well as healthy people who used the device created by the
researchers, according to the study published today in the
 Proceedings  of the National Academy of Sciences. Two people in
the study who were completely paralyzed with intact mental
function used the technology to communicate by choosing letters
on a computer screen to write.  
 The device may be among the tools to help paralyzed people
communicate and get around, said study author  Noam Sobel . It may
be cheaper than products on the market for the severely disabled
such as eye-tracking devices that cost as much as $20,000, he
said.  
 “It has the potential to have a dramatic influence on the
lives of people who have no other solutions,” said Sobel, a
professor in the department of neurobiology at the  Weizmann
Institute  in Rehovet, Israel, in a July 23 telephone interview.
“Our solution may work in several cases where other solutions
may not work.”  
 About 1.9 percent of the U.S. population, or 5.6 million
people, reported they are living with some form of paralysis,
according to the  Christopher and Dana Reeve Foundation , a
nonprofit research and advocacy organization. Stroke is the
leading cause of paralysis, followed by spinal cord injury and
multiple sclerosis.  
 Built in the Lab  
 The researchers made the device in their lab for $358. It
would only cost “a fraction of this sum” once it’s mass
produced, they said.  
 The Weizmann Institute has applied for a patent on the
device and is trying to find partners to commercialize the
product, Sobel said. He said he didn’t know when a partnership
deal might be reached or how soon the device would be available
to patients.  
 “The attractiveness of it is there are some people who are
so disabled that they can’t operate a tongue-touch device or
they may not be able to control it through a breath-control
device,” said Adam Stein, chairman of physical medicine and
rehabilitation at the  North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health
System  in Great Neck, New York.  
 The researchers used 96 healthy people, 10 quadriplegic
volunteers and three people who were completely paralyzed to
test the device in the study.  
 Electrical Signals  
 The technology works by translating changes in nasal air
pressure into electrical signals that are passed to a computer.
Patients can sniff in certain patterns to select letters or
numbers to compose text, or on the computer, to control the
mouse. For getting around, sniffing controls the direction of
the wheelchair -- two sniffs inhaled can mean moving forward and
two sniffs exhaled may signal backward.  
 Sniffing requires movements of the  soft palate , the soft
spot located at the upper back part of the mouth that receives
signals from cranial nerves often unaffected by paralysis, the
researchers said.  
 Even people considered locked-in by complete paralysis were
able to use the sniff device, the study found. For someone on a
ventilator, air can be passed into the nose through a tube
allowing the person to move the soft palate to make the device
work, Sobel said.  
 Soft Palate Control  
 About 74 percent of healthy volunteers in the study could
control their soft palate without practice. The researchers said
“as to the remaining population, it remains to be seen what
proportion can learn to control their soft palate.”  
 The study found two locked-in paralysis patients used the
sniff device to write text at the rate of 3 letters and 1.5
letters per minute, respectively, a pace that “may seem
frustratingly slow,” the authors wrote.  
 “Such writing speeds, however, are greeted with enthusiasm
by locked-in individuals,” the researchers wrote. “The speed
of this self-expression is less important to individuals who,
put bluntly, have no other options.”  
 They cited the author of a novel made into a film, “The
Diving Bell and the Butterfly,” who was a locked-in person.
Jean-Dominique Bauby wrote the 1997 novel using eye movements at
a rate of about one word every two minutes, the authors said.  
 The researchers are working to see if they can make the
device faster. Sobel said future tests are needed to see if the
device can work in people who are completely paralyzed and can’t
move their eyes and those who are considered to be in a
vegetative state.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Ostrow  in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        