-- South Korea's Won Gains, Bonds Fall as Economy Grows More Than Forecast
-- Frances Yoon
-- 2010-07-26T01:04:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/south-korea-s-won-gains-bonds-fall-as-economy-grows-more-than-forecast.html

          
          
             South Korea’s won rose for a fifth
day and bonds fell after the economy expanded more than
economists forecast, spurring speculation the central bank will
raise borrowing costs for a second time this year.  
 The currency traded at a two-week high as the benchmark
Kospi index climbed to its strongest level in more than two
years.  Gross domestic product  increased 1.5 percent in the
second quarter from the previous three months, compared with the
median estimate of 1.3 percent growth in a Bloomberg survey of
economists. The improving economy and inflationary pressures
prompted the central bank to lift its  benchmark interest rate 
this month to 2.25 percent from a record-low 2 percent.  
 “The stronger-than-expected GDP numbers bode well for the
won,” said  Douglas Borthwick , a Connecticut-based managing
director and head of trading for Faros Trading LLC. “This
growth number will give the government greater political power
to either raise rates more than expected or allow a stronger
won.”  
 The won gained 0.3 percent to 1,196.20 per dollar as of
9:33 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency’s winning streak was the longest since March.  
 The authorities may try to limit gains at 1,190 against the
dollar, Borthwick said. U.S. and South Korean naval exercises,
which began yesterday, may also limit won gains, he said. The
military training comes four months after a South Korean warship
was sunk by a torpedo that an international panel said was fired
by a North Korean submarine.  
 The  Kospi  index climbed as overseas investors bought more
shares than they sold for a fourth day.  
 Asia’s fourth-largest economy will expand 5.9 percent this
year after having grown 0.2 percent in 2009, the Bank of Korea
said on July 12. The central bank forecast this month that
consumer prices will rise by 2.8 percent this year, compared
with the previous estimate of 2.6 percent.  
 The yield on the government’s 3.75 percent note due in June
2013 rose seven basis points to 3.89 percent. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        