-- South Korea Construction Industry Shrinks, Deepening Government's Dilemma
-- William Sim
-- 2010-07-26T09:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/south-korea-s-construction-industry-shrinks-even-as-broader-economy-grows.html

          
          
             South Korea’s construction industry
had its biggest annual contraction since at least 2008 in the
second quarter, deepening a dilemma for policy makers faced at
the same time with a sustained expansion in the broader economy.  
 Construction shrank 0.8 percent over the three months
through June compared with the prior quarter, the third drop in
four quarters, and 0.5 percent from a year ago, according to
gross domestic product data released today by the Bank of Korea.  
 The decline contrasts with a quarterly growth rate for
gross domestic product of 1.5 percent, which bolstered the case
for the central bank to continue raising interest rates. Concern
about economy-wide inflation pressures outweighed risks from
falling house prices when the bank increased its benchmark this
month to 2.25 percent from a record-low 2 percent.  
 “Policy makers can’t stop raising interest rates just
because the construction sector is in trouble, which was already
doing badly when rates were at a record low,” said  Lee Sung Kwon , an economist at Shinhan Investment Corp. in Seoul. “The
government is seeking measures to support the industry, but
it’ll be difficult to find a good solution unless homebuyers’
sentiment improves.”  
 The 36-member Korea Construction Index of stocks fell 0.4
percent today after the data were released, compared with a 0.6
percent gain in the benchmark Kospi index. The building gauge
has tumbled 18 percent this year, while the  Kospi  has risen 5.1
percent.  
 Falling Prices  
 The government is contemplating steps to boost the property
market after home prices in Seoul fell for three straight months
through June, according to data from Kookmin Bank, the nation’s
largest lender.  
 The administration of South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak ,
who suffered an unexpected reversal at local elections on June 2,
last week delayed announcing the property policy after officials
failed to reach agreement on the proposals.  
 Land Minister  Chung Jong Hwan  said July 21 that he doesn’t
plan to loosen mortgage-lending controls for now, while Finance
Minister  Yoon Jeung Hyun  said that the nation’s property prices
are unlikely to fall sharply.  
 “The property market has emerged as a major political
concern,”  Park Sang Hyun , chief economist at HI Investment &
Securities Co. in Seoul, said last week.  
 Lending Caps  
 South Korea tightened restrictions on mortgage lending last
year to slow loan growth. Banks can extend as much as 50 percent
of a borrower’s annual income for purchases of homes in Seoul
and 60 percent for areas outside the capital.  
 The quarterly gain in GDP reported today exceeded the 1.3
percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of seven
economists. From a year earlier, GDP rose 7.2 percent.  
 The growth figures raise the risk of the Bank of Korea
boosting rates twice more by year-end, Barclays Capital analysts
said today as they increased their 2010 GDP growth projections
to 6.1 percent from 5.7 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Sim  in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        