-- State Street Buys Canada Provincial Debt on Budget Outlook: Canada Credit
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-07-26T04:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/state-street-buys-canada-provincial-debt-on-budget-outlook-canada-credit.html

          
          
             Canadian provincial bonds’ relative
yields will narrow because regional governments will likely
balance budgets sooner than forecast, according to State Street
Global Advisors.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own provincial rather
than federal debt expanded to 57 basis points on July 23, from
39 basis points in January, according to a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index. That gap, or spread, could narrow as much
as 15 basis points by year-end, according to  Denis Senecal , head
of fixed income and cash at State Street’s Canadian operations.  
 “What we have for provincials right now is better
momentum,” Senecal said in a telephone interview from Montreal.
 SSGA  manages $479 billion worldwide. “We’ve always been
overweight provincials. We’re thinking about getting a little
bit more overweight in that sector.”  
 Federal and provincial revenue will be C$15 billion ($14.5
billion) higher this fiscal year than governments forecast, as
 employment growth  tops economists’ expectations, commodity
prices rebound and the previous fiscal year’s revenue exceeds
estimates, according to a June 30 report by Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce.  
 Average provincial output will increase by 6.3 percent this
year on a nominal basis, versus “very conservative” government
forecasts of 4.9 percent, the CIBC report said. Smaller-than
expected deficits in Ontario and British Columbia will reduce
borrowing requirements, the report said.  
 ‘Compelling Signs’  
 “There are compelling signs that many provincial
governments will beat their fiscal targets, implying lighter
borrowing requirements ahead,”  Warren Lovely , a government debt
strategist at CIBC in Toronto, said by e-mail. “Budgets were
based on economic forecasts for 2010 that now look quite
conservative.”  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the spread on Canadian
corporate over federal government debt narrowed to 142 basis
points last week, from 143 the week before, according to the
Merrill Lynch index. Yields rose to 3.99 percent, from 3.96
percent on July 16.  
 Government bonds fell 0.33 percent including reinvested
interest last week, on track for a 0.70 percent loss this month,
the most since March.  
 InnVest Real Estate Investment Trust, the Mississauga,
Ontario-based hotel owner, issued C$75 million of 6 percent
convertible bonds due in September 2017. The bonds are
convertible until maturity into shares worth C$8 apiece.  
 Bond Sales  
 The provincial bond market, with C$456 billion outstanding,
underperformed federal bonds since the end of March. Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis and U.S. data that trailed estimates
sparked concern over the global economic recovery, spurring
demand for the safest and most liquid assets.  
 Canada’s 10 provinces projected almost C$78 billion in
borrowing requirements for the fiscal year started April 1,
according to CIBC research. Through last week, the 10  provinces 
had completed about C$30 billion, or 40 percent, of their
funding requirements.  
 Ontario forecast a C$19.7 billion deficit for the fiscal
year that started April 1, after posting a record C$21.3 billion
gap in the previous year. Quebec’s budget forecast a C$4.5
billion gap.  
 Senecal sees the tightening in provincial bonds occurring
at the end of the year, rather than in the next three months.  
 “If you compare the provincial situation with what’s
happening in sovereign debt in Europe, we think the momentum
will continue to the provincial side,” said Senecal, who held
positions with Caisse Centrale Desjardins, National Bank of
Canada, Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec and TAL Global
Asset Management. He has a degree in applied economics and
finance from the University of Montreal.  
 Crude Oil Gains  
 Employers added 93,200 workers to payrolls last month,
about five times more than economists expected, restoring most
of the jobs lost since 2008, Statistics Canada said July 9. That
means more revenue from personal income tax, the governments’
largest source of tax receipts, CIBC said. Prices for crude oil,
Canada’s largest export, averaged $77.68 a barrel from the start
of the current fiscal year through last week, compared with
$60.35 a barrel for the same period last year.  
 The yield on Canada’s two-year  benchmark  bonds rose 13
basis points last week to 1.60 percent, for a spread of 102
basis points over equivalent-maturity Treasuries. The spread
reached 115 basis points in May, the most since February 2008.  
 Spreads between the  bonds  may narrow by 30 to 40 basis
points by year-end because traders may have priced in too many
interest-rate increases from the Bank of Canada, Senecal said.  
 Pause  
 “The two-year to five-year area in Canada versus the U.S.
is certainly the place where we want to be involved,” he said.
“People now are expecting a bit too much of a rate increase
from the Bank of Canada.”  
 He sees the central bank pausing in its series of increases
to assess the global environment, after raising interest rates
25 basis points in June and July to 0.75 percent.  
 In corporate bonds, the financial sector is “fairly
priced,” Senecal said. His team will be “looking to play some
names” in the telecommunications sector, with some “big
winners and some big losers” emerging from the increased
competition, he said.  
 “Overall we’re playing more defensively globally,”
Senecal said. “The U.S. is kind of a drag right now for the
credit market.”  
 For Related News and Information:
International securities figures: CAITFICS <Index> ALLX <GO>
Canada economy profile: CBQ12 <GO>
Bank of Canada portal: BOC <GO>
Stories on Canadian economy: NI CAECO <GO>
Top Canada news: TOPC <GO>
Canada economy surveys: ECFC CA Q <GO>
Canadian dollar: CAD <CURNCY> GP <GO>
Statistics calendar: ECO CA <GO>
Canadian Bonds: PXCA <GO>  
          
          


  


        