-- BHP, Sumitomo Set Mid-Year Copper Processing Fees (Update1)
-- Ichiro Suzuki
-- 2010-07-26T07:45:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/sumitomo-metal-mining-says-sets-mid-year-copper-processing-fees-with-bhp.html

          
          
             BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s
largest mining company, and  Sumitomo Metal Mining Co.  have
settled mid-year processing fees to turn ore into refined metal,
a Sumitomo official said.  
 “We’ve concluded a deal with BHP” for the contract year
that begins July 1, Masashi Takahashi, a spokesman at Japan’s
second-biggest copper smelter said today by phone. Takahashi
declined to comment on fee levels and when the agreement was
completed. Melbourne-based BHP Billiton spokeswoman Fiona
Martin declined to comment.  
 The fees are typically negotiated twice a year, with most
of the volume handled through the year-end accords. BHP got a
38 percent reduction from at least two Japanese smelters in
January, company executives said at the time. They were set at
$46.50 a ton and 4.65 cents a pound for the calendar 2010
contracts.  
 “Concentrate supplies have been tightening following
rapid smelting capacity expansion in China,” said  Takashi Murata , an analyst at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co.
Still, “the weight of mid-year fees is getting weaker as the
amount involved has decreased.”  
 Material Shortage  
 Processing fees have fallen as smelters expanded faster
than supply from mines. Smelters will use 77.5 percent of their
capacity on average this year, compared with 86.2 percent five
years ago, Morgan Stanley said in a report on June 23. The
treatment and refining charges usually drop when there is a
shortage of raw material and smelters compete for deliveries.  
 Pan Pacific Copper Co. , Japan’s biggest copper smelter,
has not reached any deal with mining companies, spokesmen Kan
Komatsuzaki said today. Mitsubishi Materials Corp., Japan’s
third-largest copper smelter, has not reached a deal with BHP,
according to company spokesman Hisato Matsubara.  
 Pan Pacific is 66 percent owned by  Nippon Mining & Metals
Co. , a unit of JX Holdings Inc.  Mitsui Mining & Smelting Co. 
holds the remaining share.  
 Copper  smelters buy concentrate, a semi-processed form of
ore used as a feedstock, at a price based on the London Metal
Exchange benchmark minus processing fees.  
 The copper concentrate market will have a shortage for
three years after mining companies delayed projects because of
lower prices, according to  Javier Targhetta,   Freeport-McMoRan
Copper & Gold Inc ’s senior vice president of marketing and
sales. The shortage will be 500,000 tons to 1 million tons this
year, Targhetta said June 6.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jae Hur  in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
Ichiro Suzuki in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        