-- Sweet in Price, not Taste, Dolcetto Reds Take Hold in Piedmont
-- John Mariani
-- 2010-07-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/sweet-in-price-not-taste-dolcetto-takes-hold-in-piedmont-john-mariani.html

          
          
             No wine name seems more of a
misnomer than Piedmont’s dolcetto, which in Italian means
“little sweet one.” Piedmont does make sweet wines, like Asti
Spumante and Brachetto d’Acqui, but dolcetto is a very dry red
wine made from a namesake early-ripening, low-acid workhorse
grape that grows easily in soil where the more refined nebbiolo
does poorly. Dolcetto is sweet only in the colloquial sense of
the ripeness of its grapes and softness of its tannins.  
 Because of its versatility, dolcetto is widely planted in
Piedmont, with seven mini-appellations under the dolcetto
umbrella, including dolcetto d’acqui, dolcetto d’alba, and
dolcetto d’asti. Its light acids allow the fruitiness of the
wine to come to the fore on the palate, so it’s easy to drink
early after vinification and many bottlings are made in a light
beaujolais style at a low price.  
 References to the grape date to the 15th century, but only
in the past decade has the wine made from it acquired much of a
reputation for real quality. As with Piedmont’s other commercial
varietal, barbera, the region’s finest and most expensive barolo
and barbaresco estates have realized that a quality dolcetto
sells well in the international market if priced right.  
 A stunning example of how a famous barolo vintner can
produce a dolcetto of such quality is  Aldo Conterno ’s Masante
2007 from the Langhe region, where the vineyards were
established in 1969. When I tasted the wine last week I was
amazed at the depth and complexity that followed the expected
deep purple color. It has aged impeccably, its fruit, acids and
tannins in perfect harmony, and an extraordinary value at $20 a
bottle.  
 (There are three other dolcetto-making Conternos in
Piedmont -- Fantino, Paolo and Giacomo, who is related to Aldo -
- but they are independent of one another.)  
 Tannic Backbone  
 Bruno Giacosa  is another of the top guns in Piedmont, a
region famous for its big, bold long-lived barbarescos and
barolos, so I was not surprised by the tannic backbone of his
Dolcetto d’Alba Falletto ($20), which Giacosa’s website
describes as having a “bitterish aftertaste typical of this
variety.” Up front, however, is a nice wave of fresh fruit
flavors. It’s a wonderful wine to have with a saffron risotto
with Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese.  
 Still developing its character, even after nine years, was
 Pio Cesare ’s Dolcetto d’Alba 2000 ($20), whose tannins remain
firm but whose flavors blossomed when paired with a thick, rare
rib eye scented with a little rosemary.  
 Five Generations  
 Pio Cesare goes back five generations, to 1881, and while
the winery clings to traditions the family pioneered, it takes
advantage of the most modern technical advances. Its dolcetto is
made from grapes from several of the best terroirs in Serralunga
d’Alba (the Ornato Estate), Grinzane Cavour (Cascina Gustava),
and Treiso (Il Bricco Estate).  
 The late  Pasquale Pelissero , who started making wine in his
garage in the 1970s, is described on his website as a “very
conservative wine producer” but open to new technologies. The
boutique winery, now under his daughter Ornella’s control, makes
only 15,000 bottles annually.  
 The estate’s Dolcetto d’Alba Cascina Crosa 2008 ($15), made
in the Langhe region, has a very deep color and rich tannins.
Micro-oxygenation enhances the fruit, so obvious in the bouquet.
At 13 percent alcohol, this is a lovely, easy-to-drink
expression of 21st century dolcettos.  
 Remarkable Buy  
 Stefano Farina , which has holdings in Piedmont, Tuscany and
Puglia, makes Dolcetto di Diano d’Alba 2008 ($10), a remarkable
buy. While it lacks the complexity of others I tasted, it is
sturdy, with good dark fruit flavors, and it becomes looser and
more interesting after a half-hour in the glass.  
 Dolcetto is unlikely ever to achieve the status of barolo
and barbaresco, but for a dry red wine that complements the
complete range of meats in summer and winter, it has come a long
way at a price level that makes perfect sense right now.  
 ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Dolcetto grapes in the Pasquale Pelissero vineyard. The low-acid dolcetto grapes grow easily in imperfect soil, making them a popular choice among Piedmont's winemakers. Source: Pasquale Pelissero via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Dolcetto wine in small French barrique oak barrels. Pio Cesare winery uses the barrels to keep its dolcetto wines fresh during the aging process. Source: Pio Cesare via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A bottle of Pasquale Pelissero Dolcetto d'Alba. Pasquale Pelissero's Dolcetto is a boutique wine whose name means "little sweet one" in Italian. Source: Pasquale Pelissero via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Rosy Pio and her husband Giuseppe Boffa. Their family has owned and operated the Pio Cesare winery for five generations. Source: Pio Cesare via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Federica Rosy Boffa and Pio Boffa. Their family has owned and operated the Pio Cesare winery for five generations. Source: Pio Cesare via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
