-- Swiss Stocks Retreat; Roche Shares Decline as UBS, Credit Suisse Advance
-- Adam Ewing
-- 2010-07-26T13:28:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/swiss-stocks-retreat-roche-shares-decline-as-ubs-credit-suisse-advance.html

          
          
             Stocks in Switzerland retreated as a
fall in health-care shares outweighed a rise in financials after
most of Europe’s banks passed stress tests, lifting confidence
in the industry.  
 Roche Holding AG fell 1.4 percent as analysts said the
company’s presentation last week left investors without
sufficient clarity. Swiss banks  Credit Suisse Group AG  and  UBS
AG  rose 0.3 percent and 0.8 percent, respectively.  
 The benchmark  Swiss Market Index  fell 0.5 percent to
6,169.04 at 3:26 p.m. in Zurich, paring three days of gains. The
SMI has retreated 11 percent from this year’s high on April 15
amid speculation that Europe’s debt crisis may derail the
economic recovery and concern that Chinese authorities are
cooling their nation’s rate of growth. The broader  Swiss
Performance Index  dropped 0.4 percent today.  
 “Roche is likely to struggle after a management
presentation that provided little clarity on pipeline and
restructuring issues last Thursday after its first-half
earnings,”  Emmanuel Papadakis , an equity analyst for Collins
Stewart Plc, said today in an interview. “We still believe
Roche faces significant headwinds. It looks like investors have
had enough of pharmaceuticals today.”  
 Roche , the world’s biggest maker of cancer drugs, fell 1.4
percent to 134.5 francs, heading for the lowest close since
March 2009.  Novartis AG , the maker of the Diovan hypertension
drug, lost 1.5 percent to 51 francs, dropping the most in over
three weeks.  
 Stress Tests  
 European regulators found that seven of the 91 banks
subject to evaluations need to raise a combined 3.5 billion
euros ($4.5 billion) of capital. Germany’s  Hypo Real Estate
Holding AG,   Agricultural Bank of Greece SA  and five Spanish
savings banks didn’t have adequate reserves to maintain a Tier 1
capital ratio of at least 6 percent in the event of a recession
and sovereign-debt crisis, lenders and regulators said after the
close of European trading on July 23.  
 Switzerland’s biggest banks, including UBS and Credit
Suisse, passed stress tests that included a slump in financial
markets and “very sharp shocks,” the country’s financial
regulator said July 23.  
 UBS, Europe’s largest bank by assets, rose 0.8 percent to
15.6 francs, set to reach its highest price since June 22.
Credit Suisse, Switzerland’s second-biggest bank, gained 0.3
percent to 44.47 francs, its second rise.  
 Nestle SA , the world’s biggest food company that makes up
25 percent of the SMI’s weighting, slipped 0.8 percent to 53.25
francs, the biggest intraday fall in a week.  
 Transocean Ltd. , the owner of the Deepwater Horizon
offshore rig which sank in April, retreated 1.6 percent to 48.54
francs, its lowest price since at least April 21.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        