-- Consumer Markets Agency Is Poised to Oversee U.K. Exchanges, Market Abuse
-- Nandini Sukumar
-- 2010-07-26T15:18:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/u-k-consumer-markets-agency-to-oversee-exchanges-financial-market-abuse.html

          
          
             An independent Consumer Protection
and Markets Authority with broad powers to fine banks and
regulate exchanges may overlap with another new U.K. regulator,
creating “an expensive chaos” for financial firms.  
 The body will also police market abuse, banking products
and credit regulation, the government said in plans to
distribute powers currently held by the Financial Services
Authority, under new proposals set out today by the U.K.
Treasury. The Bank of England will oversee the financial
“soundness” of lenders and insurers.  
 The government will transfer prudential regulation to a new
unit of the central bank and create the consumer authority, U.K.
Treasury Minister  Mark Hoban  said in London today. The Bank will
then also establish a financial policy committee, that will
include industry executives, to monitor financial system risks,
he said.  
 “It is becoming clear that these principal bodies, the PRA
and CPMA, will have very considerable supervisory overlap,”
said  Paul Edmondson , a lawyer with CMS Cameron McKenna in
London. “Firms will be concerned about an expensive chaos of
multiple visits, contradictory instructions and daily
uncertainty.”  
 Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said on June 17
he would abolish the FSA and give most of its power to the Bank
of England by 2012, undoing the oversight model set up by  Gordon Brown  in 1997. FSA Chairman  Adair Turner  earlier this month
called for the new consumer group to have more authority,
including responsibility for some antitrust issues.  
 Simple to Sophisticated  
 “The scope of firms regulated by the CPMA will range from
those offering a simple product on the high street, to
investment banks dealing with sophisticated counterparties in
wholesale markets,” Hoban said in a speech at the London Stock
Exchange. “The new body will have the required focus, and will
regulate the conduct of all authorized firms, whether they are
regulated by the PRA or not.”  
 The new consumer agency will be independent and funded by
the financial services industry, like the FSA, according to the
report. Within the agency, the government will establish a
division to regulate market conduct and to represent the U.K.
with a new European Union regulator, the European Securities and
Markets Authority.  
 “The new regulator needs to be substantial and
authoritative: it needs to be able to represent the U.K. as the
world’s financial center to the many new EU and global bodies
being created,” the British Bankers’ Association said in a
statement. “It needs to be able to stand above land-grab
arguments between regulators which ultimately help no one.”  
 Hector Sants  
 Oversight of lenders and insurers financial “soundness”
would be handed over to the prudential regulator, headed by
current FSA Chief Executive Officer  Hector Sants .  
 The Bank will oversee central counterparty clearinghouses
and settlement systems, along with its existing oversight of
payment systems.  
 The consumer agency will also take over enforcement of
market-abuse penalties, which the FSA’s enforcement unit
currently handles.  
 The FSA’s prosecutorial powers may be combined with those
of the Serious Fraud Office and the Office of Fair Trading to
create a proposed economic crime agency, the government said in
May. It is still considering whether to transfer the FSA’s
enforcement of insider trading to prosecutors, according to
today’s report.  
 The consumer agency “will build on the FSA’s recent
progress toward a more proactive and interventionist approach to
retail conduct regulation, backed by tough enforcement to ensure
credible deterrence,” Hoban said.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        