-- Foreign-Exchange Trading Rises in April, Central Banks Reports Indicate
-- Oliver Biggadike
-- 2010-07-26T18:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/u-k-april-foreign-exchange-trade-rose-15-percent-from-october-boe-says.html

          
          
             Foreign-exchange trading jumped
during April compared with October as Europe’s debt crisis
boosted trading, central banks said in semi-annual surveys
posted on their websites.  
 The data indicate the currency market expanded to more than
$4.1 trillion in daily trading from $3.2 trillion in 2007,  Mark McDonald , an analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc in London, wrote in a
note to clients. Average U.S. daily volume in foreign-exchange
instruments was $754 billion in the April survey, an increase of
12 percent from October, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York
said. Trading accelerated 15 percent to $1.75 trillion in the
U.K. during the same period.  
 “If you have a big piece of news, such as the Greek debt
crisis, there’s more incentive to change your position,” said
 Paul Robinson , a currency strategist at Barclays Plc in London.
“Global growth is continuing and global trade is picking up
significantly, which is obviously good for foreign exchange.”  
 The euro tumbled 9.6 percent so far this year against the
dollar as concern the region’s debt crisis may cause the
arrangement to break up fueled demand for the U.S. currency as a
refuge. The dollar-euro pair was the most-traded in the U.K.,
according to the London-based Bank of England report, with
volume rising to $566 billion a day from $498 billion a day in
October.  
 Three-Year View  
 Foreign-exchange trading rose 65 percent to $3.2 trillion a
day during the three years ended in April 2007, the Bank for
International Settlements, Basel, Switzerland, said in its
triennial survey. Its next report is due in August this year.  
 CLS Bank, the operator of the largest currency-settlement
system, said the average value of global daily spot foreign-
exchange transactions increased 3.3 percent in April from
October. Transactions rose to $1.26 trillion a day, from $1.22
trillion in October, CLS Bank said today in an e-mailed
statement. The average daily value of currency-swap transactions
climbed 8.5 percent to $2.3 trillion, it said.  
 Currency trading volume in Tokyo increased 16 percent in
the 12 months to April to $294.1 billion, according to the Tokyo
Foreign Exchange Market Committee.  
 “Worries on structural problems in euro areas, mainly
focusing on fiscal issues, have newly emerged, and this has had
a significant impact on the Tokyo foreign-exchange market,” the
industry group said on its website.  
 ‘Post-Crisis Stage’  
 In Canada, the average daily turnover of foreign exchange,
which includes spot transactions, outright forwards and foreign
exchange swaps, increased 9.4 percent to $57 billion in April,
compared with $52.1 billion in October, according to the
Canadian Foreign Exchange Committee. April’s turnover totaled
$1.2 trillion, compared with $1.1 trillion in October.  
 On an average daily basis, the volume of spot and outright
forwards increased by 33 percent and 20 percent, the committee’s
 Foreign Exchange Volume Survey  said today. Foreign exchange
swaps decreased 1 percent.  
 “We are coming off a post-crisis stage,” said  Firas Askari , head currency trader in Toronto at Bank of Montreal’s
BMO Capital Markets. “You would expect to see an uptick as
markets see a semblance of improvement.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        