-- Stocks Gain, Dow Erases 2010 Decline on Home-Sale Data
-- Rita Nazareth
-- 2010-07-26T20:51:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/u-s-stock-futures-decline-before-new-home-sales-data-baidu-inc-gains.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks rose, erasing the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average ’s 2010 decline, after  FedEx Corp. 
boosted its profit forecast and a report showing improved new-
home sales eased concern about the economy.  
 FedEx  and United Parcel Service Inc., package-delivery
companies that are considered harbingers for global growth,
gained at least 1.9 percent.  Pulte Group Inc.  and Lennar Corp.
jumped more than 3.2 percent. Genzyme Corp. rallied 7.8 percent
to the highest price since February 2009 amid speculation the
drugmaker will become the target of a bidding war.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 1.1 percent to
1,115.01 as of 4 p.m. in New York. It’s down less than 0.1
percent in 2010 and closed above its average price from the last
200 days, a bullish sign to some analysts who use charts to make
forecasts. The Dow gained 100.81 points, or 1 percent, to
10,525.43, and is up 0.9 percent in 2010.  
 “Stocks are going to move higher,” said  Philip Orlando , a
New York-based chief equity market strategist at Federated
Investors Inc., which manages about $350 billion. “When a
bellwether like FedEx boosts its forecast, it’s not just about
the company, but about the implications for the global economy.
In addition, the home sales number was much better than we
thought it would be.”  
 U.S. stocks rose last week after better-than-estimated
earnings at companies from UPS to  Apple Inc.  and Ford Motor Co.
lifted confidence the economy is recovering. Of the 152
companies in the S&P 500 that reported earnings since July 12,
more than 83 percent have beaten the average analyst earnings
forecast, according to  Bloomberg data . More than 160 S&P 500
companies are  scheduled  to post quarterly results this week.  
 Buying Shares  
 Barton Biggs , the hedge-fund manager who slashed his equity
holdings in half three weeks ago, has rebuilt his stakes. Traxis
Partners LLC, his firm, returned 38 percent in 2009, triple the
industry average. Bets that stocks will rally make up 75 percent
of his fund, up from about 35 percent earlier this month.  
 “I’ve definitely changed my mind to the degree of risk out
there,”  Biggs  said today in a radio interview with  Tom Keene  on
Bloomberg Surveillance. “Economic data around the world in the
last 10 days to two weeks has turned more positive. It has
exceeded forecasts almost without exception. The odds of the
world slumping into a significant slowdown has diminished.”  
 The benchmark index for U.S. stock options fell 3.2 percent
to 22.73, the lowest level since May 3. The VIX, as the  Chicago
Board Options Exchange Volatility Index  is known, measures the
cost of using options as insurance against declines in the S&P
500. It’s down from this year’s closing high of 45.79 on May 20.  
 Bollinger Band  
 All nine stocks in the  S&P 500 Transportation Index  rose,
sending the benchmark 2.4 percent higher, for the second-biggest
gain among 24 industries. The  Dow Jones Transportation Average 
of 20 stocks advanced 2.6 percent to 4,482.09, its highest level
since May 14, rising above what analysts who study charts to
make forecasts call its upper Bollinger Band. Technical analysts
say this indicates the potential for further gains.  
 FedEx  rose 5.6 percent to $83.39. The second-largest U.S.
package-shipping company raised its 2010 profit forecast because
of more demand for international express shipping.  
 UPS, the world’s biggest shipper, rallied 1.9 percent to
$64.88. It jumped the most in two months on July 22 after
raising its annual profit forecast and saying the U.S. economy
will continue to recover.  
 ‘Pretty Good’  
 “Earnings reports are pretty good, especially things
connected to global trade” such as Expeditors International of
Washington Inc., FedEx and UPS, said  Karl Mills , president and
chief investment officer at Jurika, Mills & Keifer in Oakland,
California, which manages $30 million. “All point to
strengthening economic activity.”  
 A gauge of 12 homebuilders in S&P indexes rose 2.9 percent.
Pulte gained 4.7 percent to $9.07, while Lennar climbed 3.3
percent to $15.42.  
 Sales of U.S. new homes rose in June more than forecast
following an unprecedented collapse the prior month.  Purchases 
increased 24 percent from May to an annual pace of 330,000,
figures from the Commerce Department showed today in Washington.
The rate was the second-lowest in data going back to 1963 after
May’s downwardly revised 267,000 pace.  
 “The numbers were so dismal on housing for the previous
two months that any gradual improvement is perceived very
positively by equity investors,” said  David Kovacs , head of
quantitative strategies at Turner Investment Partners in Berwyn,
Pennsylvania, which manages $19 billion. “The data on Europe
and housing had investors turning very risk-averse. Now suddenly
all those fears are temporarily subsiding.”  
 Genzyme, BP  
 Genzyme jumped 7.8 percent to $67.38. GlaxoSmithKline Plc
asked the drugmaker to keep it in mind if it considered selling
itself, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing an unidentified
person. The world’s largest maker of drugs for rare genetic
diseases rebuffed Sanofi-Aventis SA’s takeover approach last
week, two people with knowledge of the matter told Bloomberg
News today.  
 BP Plc  rose 4.9 percent to $38.65. The oil producer plans
to name  Robert Dudley  to succeed  Tony Hayward  as chief executive
officer as the board looks to recover the company’s position in
the U.S., two people with knowledge of the matter said.  
 AT&T Inc.  advanced 1.6 percent to $25.96, leading phone
companies to the third-biggest gain among 10 industries. The
largest U.S. phone company was raised to “buy” from “hold”
at Deutsche Bank AG.  
 Institutions pushed equities up to 68 percent of their
holdings in July, the highest level in 15 months, from 63
percent in April, a Citigroup Inc. survey showed. The ratio of
bullish to bearish respondents in a  survey  by the American
Association of Individual Investors has fallen to 0.68, the
lowest level since July 2009, based on a four-week average.  
 The last time money managers and individuals were this far
apart was in March 2009, before the S&P 500 began its  63 percent 
rally, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       S&P 500 futures climbed 0.2 percent to 1,102.20  
                       
                         
                           Ramin Talaie/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A trader works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchang. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A trader works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchang. Photographer: Ramin Talaie/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Barton Biggs, co-founder of Traxis Partners LP, discusses his investment strategy.
     Biggs talks with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt on Bloomberg Radio's "Bloomberg Surveillance." (This report is an excerpt of the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Nicholas Sargen, chief investment officer at Fort Washington Investment Advisors, talks about the outlook for U.S. stocks and the economy.
     Sargen speaks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Scott Wren, senior equity strategist at Wells Fargo Advisors and Matt Shapiro, trader at MWS Capital, talk about the outlook for stocks and the U.S. economy. 
     Wren and Shapiro speak with Carol Massar, Matt Miller, Julie Hyman, Dominic Chu and Adam Johnson on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Liam Dalton, chief executive of Axiom Capital Management, talks about the outlook for the U.S. economy and stock market.
     Dalton speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
