-- UBS's Igor Poteroba Pleads Not Guilty in Alleged Insider Trading Scheme
-- Bob Van Voris
-- 2010-07-26T16:16:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/ubs-investment-banker-poteroba-pleads-not-guilty-to-insider-trading-charge.html

          
          
             UBS AG  investment banker  Igor Poteroba , charged with taking in almost $1 million for tipping
friends to potential mergers, pleaded not guilty to insider
trading charges.  
 Poteroba, a former investment banker at  UBS Securities
LLC ’s Global Healthcare Group in New York, was charged and
arrested in March along with Alexi Koval, a Chicago man who
allegedly traded on the information. Poteroba is accused of
leaking merger tips to potential mergers and acquisitions
involving six public companies to Koval and an unnamed third
person.  
 Poteroba pleaded not guilty today in a hearing before U.S.
Magistrate Judge  Andrew Peck  in Manhattan and waived his right
to be charged in an indictment. At his bail hearing in March,
prosecutors said Poteroba had admitted he was trading on inside
information as late as that month.  
 Assistant U.S. Attorney Marissa Mole told Peck she expects
that both sides will “discuss possible resolution of this
case.”  
 A federal judge in New York on March 25 set Poteroba’s bail
at $5 million. He remains in custody.  
 Prosecutors said the participants in the scheme with
Poteroba, an executive director at UBS, used code words such as
“frequent flyer miles” and references to a Macy’s wedding
registry. The inside information, according to prosecutors, was
connected to mergers or acquisitions involving Guilford
Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Molecular Devices Corporation, PharmaNet
Development Group, Inc., Via Cell, Inc., Millennium
Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and Indevus Pharmaceuticals.  
 The SEC has filed a civil suit against Poteroba, Koval and
Alexander Vorobiev who now lives in Russia. All three are
Russian citizens, according to the SEC.  
 The case is U.S. v. Poteroba, 10-mag-00562, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        