-- Canadian Stocks Rise as Financials Gain on U.S. Home Sales, FedEx Forecast
-- Kelly Bit
-- 2010-07-26T20:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/lululemon-royal-bank-silvercorp-canadian-equity-preview-for-july-26.html

          
          
             Canadian stocks  rose, led by
financial shares, after U.S. new home sales climbed more than
estimated and  FedEx Corp.  boosted its profit forecast.  
 Brookfield Properties Corp., the owner of Canada’s tallest
skyscraper and New York’s World Financial Center, gained 2.5
percent.  Bank of Montreal , Canada’s fourth-largest bank, jumped
1.7 percent.  Eastern Platinum Ltd.  had the biggest gain in the
benchmark equity index, increasing 7.3 percent.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  climbed 31.86
points, or 0.3 percent, to 11,746.07 as sales of new homes in
the U.S., Canada’s biggest trade partner, rose more than
economists estimated in June, a signal the worst of the slump
triggered by the end of a government tax credit is over. FedEx
Corp. raised its forecast for the quarter and year on rising
demand for international express shipments.  
 “The market was a little bit encouraged by the FedEx
statement,” said  David Baskin , president of Baskin Financial
Services Inc. in Toronto, which manages C$350 million ($332
million). “The housing stats in the United States are also
affecting the market. We’re generally positive in our outlook.
Corporate earnings so far in the U.S. and also in Canada have
been very positive.”  
 The S&P/TSX rose 1.3 percent last week as most lenders
passed a European stress test and U.S. companies reported
earnings that topped analyst estimates.  
 Banks Gain  
 Bank of Montreal rose 1.7 percent to C$62.85, as an index
of financial shares in the S&P/TSX rose the most of 10 industry
groups. Toronto-Dominion Bank, the country’s second largest,
rose 1.4 percent to C$72.92.  
 Brookfield Properties  jumped 2.5 percent to C$16.32. The
company is scheduled to report  second-quarter earnings  on July
30.  
 Eastern Platinum, which mines in South Africa, surged 7.3
percent to C$1.03. The shares rallied on signs of economic
strength in Europe as U.K. GDP jumped 1.1 percent in the second
quarter, German business confidence unexpectedly surged to a
three-year high this month, and the European stress-test results
showed the majority of the region’s banks are adequately
capitalized, according to  Bart Jaworski , equity analyst at
Raymond James in Vancouver.  
 “I think it’s mostly positive news out of Europe,” he
said. European demand for catalytic converters “is a big
portion of platinum demand.” Jaworski reiterated his
“outperform” rating on the shares.  
 Copper Prices  
 Copper prices climbed to a 10-week high, bolstering gains
for companies that mine the metal.  Quadra FNX Mining Ltd. , the
Vancouver-based owner of mines in Nevada, Arizona and northern
Chile, gained 2.3 percent to C$12.71. Inmet Mining Corp., a
producer of copper in Spain, rallied 1.9 percent to C$49.25.  
 Lundin Mining Corp. , which produces base metals in Europe,
climbed 1.8 percent to C$3.99. The company is scheduled to
report  second-quarter earnings  on July 28.  
 Rogers Communications Inc. , Canada’s largest wireless
carrier, rose 0.8 percent to $37.40, the highest intraday price
in more than two years. The company is scheduled to report
second-quarter earnings tomorrow.  
 Gold producers led losses in the S&P/TSX as gold fell for a
second session on signs that demand for the metal as an
investment haven is slowing as the euro stabilizes against the
dollar.  NovaGold Resources Inc. , which explores in the U.S. and
Canada, retreated 3.9 percent to C$6.41 for the second-biggest
loss in the S&P/TSX. New Gold Inc., which mines in Australia,
Mexico and the U.S., declined 2.3 percent to C$5.15.  
 Fertilizer Producer  
 Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  slumped 1.2 percent to
C$100.79 after corn, wheat and soybean prices declined. The
world’s biggest fertilizer producer is scheduled to report
second-quarter earnings on July 29. Agrium Inc., Canada’s
second-largest fertilizer producer, retreated 2.2 percent to
C$61.55.  
 Research in Motion Ltd.  fell 0.9 percent to C$57.18. The
company’s BlackBerry smartphones may be subject to monitoring in
the United Arab Emirates if the government is able to bring
communications by the handheld devices under emergency and
security rules.  
 Silvercorp Metals Inc. , a silver producer, slumped 3.5
percent to C$6.63 after it said heavy rainfall in China damaged
operations at the Ying mining camp.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Bit  in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        