-- Hungary's Forint Gains on European Bank Tests, Bets IMF Talks Will Resume
-- Krystof Chamonikolas
-- 2010-07-26T09:29:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/hungary-s-forint-gains-on-european-bank-tests-bets-imf-talks-will-resume.html

          
          
             The forint strengthened against the
euro, paring last week’s losses on speculation Hungary will
resume talks with the International Monetary Fund while European
stress tests added to optimism about the global recovery.  
 The currency jumped as much as 1.2 percent and was trading
up 0.7 percent at 285.89 per euro as of 10:50 a.m. in Budapest,
making it the best performer among more than 20 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  
 The forint lost 2 percent last week after the IMF and the
European Union suspended a review of Hungary’s bailout program
and two ratings companies put the country’s credit rating on
review. Stocks in emerging markets advanced for a fifth day and
most currencies gained after South Korea’s economy grew faster
than expected in the second quarter and most European banks
passed stress tests.  
 “The forint’s move to 285 may be triggered by higher risk
appetite” as “we see some relief after the banking stress
tests,”  Lutz Karpowitz , a currency strategist at Commerzbank AG
in Frankfurt, said by phone today. “Levels between 280 and 290
still imply that the negotiations will not fail. The market
expects that there might be a delay, but in the end the
government will give up and accept the IMF and EU terms.”  
 Hungary obtained a 20 billion-euro ($25.8 billion) credit
lifeline from the international lenders in 2008 to avert default
after demand for its debt dried up amid the global financial
crisis. Standard & Poor’s said on July 23 it may cut the rating
for the country’s debt to junk because without IMF aid the
country may “face higher and more volatile funding costs.”  
 “If the market were to come to the conclusion that talks
could break up totally we would see rates far above 300” per
euro, Karpowitz said. “The upside potential for the forint is
very much limited” by the uncertainty surrounding Hungary’s
lending program, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        