-- Vietnam Stocks to Climb 41% This Year Amid Global Recovery, PXP Asset Says
-- Nguyen Kieu Giang
-- 2010-07-26T04:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/vietnam-stocks-to-climb-41-this-year-amid-global-recovery-pxp-asset-says.html

          
          
             Vietnam  stocks , Southeast Asia’s
worst performers this year, may climb as much as 41 percent as a
global recovery prompts investors to pour money into emerging
markets, according to PXP Vietnam Asset Management.  
 The Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange’s  VN Index  may climb as
high as 700 “at some point during this year,” and return
within two years to the 1,000 level that it last touched in
2007,  Kevin Snowball , chief executive of PXP, said in an
interview. The gauge fell 0.4 percent to 498.10 at the 11 a.m.
close in Ho Chi Minh City.  
 Vietnam equities have tumbled 57 percent from the record
1,170.67 in March 2007 as the global financial crisis prompted a
retreat from developing nations. Foreign funds have bought a net
7.5 trillion dong ($391 million) of stocks on the  exchange  this
year. Inflows slumped to 2.7 trillion dong last year, from 5.8
trillion dong in 2008 and 23 trillion in 2007.  
 “If people become less optimistic about the prospects for
returns from developed markets, they will increase exposure to
emerging markets,” Snowball said. “As risk appetite increases,
they will get to frontier markets including Vietnam.”  
 Policy makers in most developed economies have refrained
from raising interest rates from record lows amid concern the
global recovery will falter. The International Monetary Fund
said financial-market turmoil has increased the risks to the
rebound, and Moody’s Investors Service lowered its credit
ratings on Portugal and Ireland.  
 Best Performer  
 PXP Vietnam Emerging Equity Fund Ltd.  has climbed 19
percent in 12 months, beating 86 percent of the 78 Vietnam
equity funds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The net
value of  PXP Vietnam Fund Ltd.  has doubled over five years to
June 30, the best among only three funds tracked for the period
by Bloomberg.  
 The  VN Index  has advanced 0.7 percent this year, trailing
behind other Southeast Asian markets. Equity market risks
include “persistently” rising inflation or a wider trade
deficit that could weaken confidence in the currency, Nomura
Holdings Inc. analysts led by  Sean Darby  wrote in a report July
22, maintaining a “bearish” view.  
 Stock underperformed other Southeast Asian markets amid
concerns the country’s inflation, the highest in the region, may
accelerate as the government raised its 2010 target to 8 percent
from 7 percent in May. The government’s focus on boosting growth
poses risks to the outlook for controlling the pace of price
increases, Citigroup Inc. said this month.  
 Inflation  
 The economy expanded 6.4 percent in the three months
through June, compared with 5.83 percent in the first quarter.
Inflation cooled for a fourth month in July, with consumer price
index rising 8.19 percent from a year earlier, the General
Statistics Office in Hanoi reported July 24.  
 “July inflation figures should be supportive to stock
market sentiment once investors are willing to take a longer
term view on the macroeconomic environment and market
fundamentals,” Snowball said.  
 The outlook for equities in the country also depends on
increased purchases by foreign institutional investors, Snowball
said. Domestic investors make up 95 percent of the market, he
said. There will be a “sustainable advance” when foreign
participation reaches 15 percent to 20 percent, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nguyen Kieu Giang  in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin reports on Vietnam's attractiveness to manufacturers as a low-cost production base. 
     The communist nation drew 13.5 percent of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations’ foreign direct investment pool in 2008, up from 4.4 percent two years earlier, according to the 10-member group. Bloomberg's Susan Li also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
