-- Vivendi Says Supreme Court Ruling Limits Billions Sought in U.S. Lawsuit
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-07-26T22:24:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/vivendi-says-supreme-court-ruling-limits-billions-sought-in-u-s-lawsuit.html

          
          
             Vivendi SA  asked a judge in New York
today to dismiss a jury’s fraud verdict against the company or
cut most of the $9.3 billion in damages sought by shareholders
in light of a U.S. Supreme Court ruling.  
 A Manhattan federal court jury sided with investors in
January, concluding that the world’s largest music company acted
recklessly and inflated its shares. Jurors found that Paris-
based Vivendi misled shareholders 57 times from 2000 to 2002
with upbeat statements that hid a liquidity crisis. The judge
must eventually determine the amount to be awarded.  
 The U.S. Supreme Court ruled June 24 in an unrelated case
that federal securities laws don’t protect foreign investors who
buy stocks of non-U.S. companies on overseas exchanges. Vivendi
argued today that the Manhattan trial judge should apply that
ruling and limit the size of the class of plaintiffs. From 2000
to 2002, Americans held only 25 percent of Vivendi’s ordinary
shares, according to the company.  
 The high court ruling “in our view precludes all claims by
any purchasers of ordinary shares, common shares on any foreign
exchange,”  Paul Saunders , a lawyer for Vivendi, told U.S.
District Judge  Richard Holwell  in Manhattan. “It has a dramatic
effect on this case. It affects the jury’s verdict, it affects
the definition of the class.”  
 1 Million Shareholders  
 Holwell didn’t immediately issue any rulings today.
“There is quite a lot of work for the court to do,” he said.
“My goal is to make a consolidated opinion and not do this
piecemeal.”  
 Plaintiffs’ lawyers said after the verdict in the class-
action suit in New York that investors could recover as much as
$9.3 billion. They said more than 1 million shareholders are
covered by the case, which went to trial in October.  
 Matthew Gluck , a lawyer for the plaintiffs, contended the
Supreme Court’s ruling doesn’t affect either U.S. or foreign
purchasers of Vivendi securities because the company’s ordinary
shares were “listed on an American stock exchange.”  
 “It is our position the court need not consider” the
ruling, Gluck said today.  
 The company said in court papers the high court’s June 24
decision in the case called Morrison v. National Australia Bank
“will likely reduce potential damages by at least 80 percent
and may reduce them significantly more.”  
 Ordinary Shares  
 The company also asked the judge to dismiss the jury’s
verdict outright on the grounds that it was “inconsistent” for
jurors to find Vivendi liable while voting not to assign
liability to former Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Marie Messier 
and  Guillaume Hannezo , the company’s former finance chief.  
 The company “believed, and continues to believe strongly,
that it did nothing wrong,” Vivendi said in an e-mailed
statement after the verdict. The company has also said it will
appeal the verdict.  
 Jurors calculated the amount by which Vivendi securities
were inflated. Amounts included 0.15 euros a share on Oct. 30,
2000, 11 euros a share on Jan. 2, 2002, and 1.75 euros a share
on Aug. 13, 2002, jurors said. One euro is worth $1.30 at
today’s exchange rate.  
 Jurors evaluated 57 public comments from October 2000 to
June 2002. They determined whether each statement was false, and
if so whether it was made by the company, Messier or Hannezo.  
 From 19 percent to 35 percent of shareholders typically
submit claims in class-action suits, Saunders, of New York-based
 Cravath Swaine & Moore LLP , previously said, adding that it may
be years before damages are determined.  
 Founded in 1800s  
 Vivendi was founded in France in the 1800s as a water
utility. Its units now include the world’s largest music
company, Universal Music Group, along with a video game company,
pay-television operations and telecommunications, its largest
business.  
 At the trial, plaintiffs’ attorney  Arthur N. Abbey  told
jurors Vivendi hid debt stemming from a $77 billion acquisition
spree in the 1990s that turned the company into a media and
telecommunications giant.  
 Investors claimed to have lost billions of dollars when
Vivendi’s true financial condition became public. Shares fell
from 84.70 euros on Oct. 31, 2000, to 9.30 euros on Aug. 16,
2002, the period covered by the suit.  
 Vivendi’s lawyers denied there was a liquidity crisis at
the company and accused the investors of distorting public
comments made by company officials.  
 French Investors  
 About two-thirds of the investors in the New York case are
in France, according to Vivendi. Investors that sued include the
Seventh Swedish National Pension Fund and Danske Invest
Administration A/S, a Copenhagen-based mutual-fund manager.  
 Holwell in 2007 certified a class of “all persons from the
United States, France, England and the Netherlands” who
purchased American Depository Shares of Vivendi between Oct. 30,
2000, and Aug. 14, 2002.  
 Vivendi today asked Holwell to exclude purchasers of
Vivendi ordinary shares and keep “only people from the U.S.
France, England and the Netherlands who purchased Vivendi ADSs
on the New York Stock Exchange.”  
 Vivendi agreed in 2003 to pay $50 million to settle U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission accusations of civil fraud,
and Messier agreed to pay a $1 million fine.  
 The SEC claimed Vivendi issued misleading press releases
under Messier and altered financial statements to make it appear
the company was generating more cash than it actually was.  
 The case is In Re Vivendi Universal SA Securities
Litigation, 02-cv-5571, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        