-- Wheat-Crop Yield in North Dakota May Decline From Record After Excess Rain
-- Tony C. Dreibus
-- 2010-07-26T22:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/wheat-crop-yield-in-north-dakota-may-decline-from-record-after-excess-rain.html

          
          
             Wheat yields in North Dakota, the
biggest U.S. producer, may drop this year from a record in 2009
because of excessive rain during April planting, the
government’s National Agriculture Statistics Service estimates.  
 “People are expecting yields will not be as good,” Darin
Jantzi, the director of the service’s North Dakota office in
Fargo, said today in an interview before the start of an annual
tour of wheat fields this week. The NASS is a unit of the U.S.
Department of Agriculture.  
 As much as three times the normal precipitation fell in the
state during the past 60 days, data from the  National Weather
Service  show. While conditions have been “good,” last year’s
crop was exceptional, said Jantzi, who is one of about 50
participants in the tour, which includes farmers, grain buyers,
analysts and government officials.  
 “It was cooler last year when we set a record for some of
our small grains,” Jantzi said. “This year’s been a little
warmer.” While yields will be smaller, the quality of the wheat
is likely to be better, he said.  
 The U.S. is the  biggest exporter  of wheat, followed by
Canada, Australia and Russia.  
 North Dakota  spring-wheat production  was expected to drop
to 281.7 million bushels, down 2.8 percent from a year earlier,
the USDA said on July 9. Yields in the state are expected to be
43 bushels an acre, down from last year’s 46 bushels, the
highest ever, USDA data show. Growers planted 6.7 million acres
this year, up 3.9 percent from 2009, the USDA said.  
 U.S. Production  
 U.S. spring-wheat yields were forecast by the USDA at 44.6
bushels an acre, 0.5 bushel below last year’s record. Production
was estimated to be 606.8 million bushels, up 3.8 percent from
the prior year, USDA data show.  
 Some farmers couldn’t get into North Dakota fields during
planting because of wet weather, F. Adnan Akyuz, the state
climatologist, said in an interview. Some growers were seeding
in mid-June, later than normal, he said.  
 Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion last year, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government
data show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony C. Dreibus  in Chicago at 
 Tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        