-- Wichita, Portland, Houston, New Orleans Show Obama How to Double Exports
-- Mark Drajem
-- 2010-07-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/wichita-portland-houston-new-orleans-show-obama-how-to-double-exports.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  should look
at Wichita, Portland, Houston and New Orleans to see how he can
succeed in his bid to double U.S.  exports  over the next five
years, a report from the Brookings Institution says.  
 Each of those metropolitan areas doubled its exports in the
five years through 2008. The U.S. economy as a whole hasn’t
doubled exports over a five-year period in six decades,
researchers say in their report, “ Export Nation .”  
 “We can play globally in a way I don’t think the country
understands,”  Bruce Katz , a co-author of the study and director
of the Brookings Metropolitan Policy Program in Washington, said
in an interview. “But it’s not enough to have three or four
policy makers in Washington pull a lever somewhere.”  
 Each of the four cities succeeded in part because of their
clustering of individual industries, according to Emilia
Istrate, another report author. Houston leveraged its oil
refining into an internationally competitive chemicals sector;
New Orleans took advantage of rising crude prices to export more
of its refined petroleum products; and Portland’s computer and
electronics companies boosted their international sales.  
 Portland’s exports are 17 times larger than its economic
size would predict, the study concluded.  
 Export Mindset  
 Success also takes a certain mindset among company
executives, Katz said.  
 Wichita’s 90-year-old aircraft industry, which had a hand
in more than half the airplanes flying today, sought out new
customers in Asia and Latin America as the U.S. market matured,
said Bryan Derreberry, president of the Wichita Metro Chamber of
Commerce.  
 “This is a community that makes stuff,” Derreberry said
in an interview. “Our companies are extremely savvy and focused
on the export aspect of their business.”  
 Obama said on March 11 that his goal of doubling U.S.
 exports  in the next five years is crucial for economic growth
and vowed he would bridge differences between business and labor
groups to achieve it. He also reestablished a private-sector
export advisory council and pledged to boost government
financial support for exporters.  
 Local officials should play a role too, according to  Howard Rosen , a fellow at the Peterson Institute for International
Economics in Washington.  
 “The important thing is to get metro areas out of their
parochial thinking, and get them to think about how they fit
into a national agenda,” Rosen, who reviewed the report before
it was published, said in an interview.  
 Brookings’s Katz said that both local and federal officials
need to invest in new technologies, such as clean technology,
focus on promoting their exports and build up roads and ports to
foster trade.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Shipping at The Port of Portland in Portland, Oregon  
                       
                         
                           Ty Wright/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Containers are loaded onto trucks from a container ship at the Port of Portland in Portland, Oregon. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Containers are loaded onto trucks from a container ship at the Port of Portland in Portland, Oregon. Photographer: Ty Wright/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
