-- Yellen Says Fed's Adoption of 4% Long-Term Inflation Goal Would Be Risky
-- Vivien Lou Chen
-- 2010-07-26T16:58:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/yellen-says-fed-s-adoption-of-4-long-term-inflation-goal-would-be-risky.html

          
          
             Janet Yellen , President  Barack Obama ’s pick to be the Federal Reserve’s next vice chairman,
said it would be “risky” to adopt a long-run inflation goal of
4 percent, and that supervision and regulation are “the first
line of defense” against risks to the financial system.  
 She made the comments in written responses to questions
posed by U.S. Senator  Richard Shelby , a Republican from Alabama,
following her July 15 hearing before the Senate Banking
Committee. Yellen, president of the San Francisco Fed, is
awaiting confirmation, along with Obama’s other nominees,  Sarah Bloom Raskin  and  Peter Diamond .  
 The trio, if confirmed by the Senate, would help Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  devise policies to reduce a jobless rate stuck
at 9.4 percent or higher for the past year, while assisting the
Fed in carrying out expanding regulatory duties. They would also
bring the Fed’s seven-person board to full strength for the
first time in four years.  
 “Supervision and regulation of financial institutions
should provide the first line of defense against systemic risk,
rather than monetary policy,” Yellen, 63, wrote. “The events
of the past few years teach us that we need to closely monitor
and analyze movements in leverage and  asset  prices and be
cognizant of their effects in the conduct of monetary policy.”  
 Inflation Target  
 She said that while a higher long-run inflation goal would
“give the Fed more maneuvering room in the future,” she agrees
with Bernanke that such a move “would be a risky policy
strategy.” Most policy makers regard 2 percent as a level
consistent with price stability.  
 Diamond, an economics professor at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology and specialist in taxation and
behavioral economics, told Shelby that he thinks deflation is a
“greater risk” than inflation and prefers to keep current
monetary policy in place for now.  
 “While I do not think that significant deflation is a
likely outcome, the risk from inflation rising beyond the
desired range in the near future appears even smaller,” Diamond
wrote in his response to questions. “At present I favor
maintenance of the current level of ease, with vigilance to
circumstances that might call for a change in either
direction.”  
 Raskin, in a letter to Shelby, said the central bank should
eventually reduce its assets in a way that doesn’t jeopardize
the expansion.  
 “It is important to normalize the size and composition of
the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet, but it should be done in a
way that does not endanger the recovery,” she said. “Given
current conditions in housing markets, I would wait for
stabilization before selling mortgage-backed securities” from
the balance sheet.  
 The Senate Banking Committee is scheduled to vote on the
three Fed nominees July 28 starting at 2:30 p.m. Washington
time.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vivien Lou Chen  in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        