-- Yen Advances Against Euro, Dollar as Stock Losses Boost Demand for Safety
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-07-26T10:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/yen-advances-against-euro-dollar-as-stock-losses-boost-demand-for-safety.html

          
          
             The yen rose against the dollar and
the euro, reversing earlier losses, as a decline in stocks
supported demand for a currency investors perceive as a refuge.  
 The yen advanced against 12 of the 16 most active
currencies before data that economists say will show new home
sales in the U.S. rose in June by the second-lowest amount on
record. Morgan Stanley predicts global growth will be slower in
the next three to five years than before the credit crisis. The
euro rose earlier after so-called stress tests found only seven
European banks need to raise capital.  
 “The sentiment in the market is that of caution,” said
 Audrey Childe-Freeman , a senior currency strategist at Brown
Brothers Harriman Ltd. in London. “There was a sense of relief
earlier on about the stress test results, but questions linger
whether the tests were rigorous enough. The key factor the
market will be focusing on from here is the global growth
outlook.”  
 The yen appreciated to 112.43 against the euro as of 6:05
a.m. in New York from 112.90 at the end last week. It earlier
depreciated to 113.48, the weakest level since June 3. It
strengthened to 87.18 against the dollar from 87.46. The euro
was little changed at $1.2902.  
 The Stoxx Europe 600 Index  fell 0.1 percent after earlier
increasing as much as 0.5 percent.  
 ‘Post-Crisis Headwinds’  
 Sales of new U.S. homes climbed 3.7 percent to a 311,000
annual pace last month, according to the median estimate of 60
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The rate would be second
only to May’s 300,000 as the lowest since data began in 1963.  
 Global growth may average 3.25 percent to 3.5 percent in
the next three to five years, well below the 4.7 percent pace of
the five years leading up to the 2008 slump, estimates  Stephen Roach , non-executive chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia.  
 “Post-crisis headwinds will restrain trend growth in world
gross domestic product by 1 to 1.5 percentage points,” said New
York-based Roach, who also teaches at Yale University.  
 Germany’s Hypo Real Estate Holding AG, Agricultural Bank of
Greece SA and five Spanish savings banks were the only lenders
not to have adequate reserves to maintain a Tier 1 capital ratio
of at least 6 percent in the event of a recession and sovereign-
debt crisis, lenders and regulators said July 23.  
 Default Prospects  
 The banks that failed the stress tests are in “close
contact” with national authorities over how they will raise
capital, said the Committee of European Banking Supervisors,
which ran the assessments of 91 lenders.  
 “Medium-term accounts look to have come through and picked
up the euro,” said  Adrian Foster , head of financial-markets
research for Asia at Rabobank Groep NV in Hong Kong. “They
don’t see near- to medium-term prospects for a default in
Europe.”  
 Europe’s shared currency has declined 8.1 percent this
year, the biggest loss among its developed-world counterparts,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
has gained 3.1 percent, and the yen has advanced 10 percent.  
 “The most important element of this test is that it
creates several key data points for private analysts to
differentiate between good banks and bad banks,” said  Hans- Guenter Redeker , global head of currency strategy at BNP Paribas
SA. “There are still some shortcomings, and no one said this is
going to be a perfect test. But at least if we get confidence
coming back, the market will function properly.”  
 Australia’s Consumer Prices  
 Australia’s dollar touched the strongest since May versus
the U.S. currency before a consumer prices report due this week.
Prices climbed 1 percent in the second quarter, according to a
Bloomberg survey before the figures are released July 28.  
 The Reserve Bank of Australia said last week in minutes of
its July meeting that policy makers intend to use results of
Europe’s stress tests and local inflation figures to decide
whether to resume raising interest rates when they meet next
month. The pace of  consumer price  increases nearly doubled to
0.9 percent in the first quarter.  
 “We’re expecting a fairly strong CPI print and that will
definitely put the pressure on the RBA to lift rates,” said
 Khoon Goh , head of market economics and strategy at ANZ National
Bank Ltd. in Wellington.  
 The Australian dollar traded at 89.67 U.S. cents from 89.57
cents, after earlier reaching 89.89 cents, the most since May
13.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        