-- Euro Rises Versus the Dollar as Most Banks Pass Stress Tests
-- Ron Harui
-- 2010-07-26T05:53:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/yen-falls-on-speculation-asian-economic-recovery-will-damp-safety-demand.html

          
          
             The yen fell to a seven-week low
against the euro as speculation that Asia’s economic recovery is
gathering momentum damped demand for the relative safety of
Japan’s currency.  
 The yen weakened versus 14 of its 16 major counterparts as
reports showed South Korea’s economy and Japanese exports grew
faster than economists estimated, spurring investors to buy
higher-yielding assets. Australia’s dollar traded near the
strongest since May versus the greenback on prospects data this
week will show consumer prices climbed at the fastest pace since
September 2009.  
 “Asia-Pacific economies are growing steadily,” said
 Tsutomu Soma , a bond and currency dealer at Okasan Securities Co.
in Tokyo. “There’s risk-taking sentiment, which is a factor for
selling the yen and the dollar.”  
 The yen fell to 113.07 per euro at 6:37 a.m. in London from
112.90 in New York last week, after earlier declining to 113.48,
the lowest level since June 3. Japan’s currency was at 87.56 per
dollar from 87.46, after sliding to 87.79, the weakest since
July 15. The dollar traded at $1.2916 per euro from $1.2909.  
 South Korea’s gross domestic product grew 1.5 percent last
quarter from the prior three months, the Bank of Korea said in
Seoul. That was more than the 1.3 percent gain forecast in a
 survey . Japan’s exports rose 27.7 percent in June from a year
earlier, the Finance Ministry said in Tokyo. Economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News predicted a gain of 23.5 percent.  
 Australia’s Consumer Prices  
 Australia’s dollar touched the strongest since May versus
the U.S. currency before this week’s consumer prices report.
Prices climbed 1 percent in the second quarter, according to a
Bloomberg survey before the figures are released July 28.  
 The Reserve Bank of Australia said last week in minutes of
its July meeting that policy makers intend to use results of
Europe’s stress tests and local inflation figures to decide
whether to resume raising interest rates when they meet next
month. The pace of  consumer price  increases nearly doubled to
0.9 percent in the first quarter.  
 “We’re expecting a fairly strong CPI print and that will
definitely put the pressure on the RBA to lift rates,” said
 Khoon Goh , head of market economics and strategy at ANZ National
Bank Ltd. in Wellington. “The New Zealand dollar is getting
dragged up by the Australian currency.”  
 Benchmark interest rates are 4.5 percent in Australia and
2.75 percent in New Zealand, compared with 0.1 percent in Japan
and as low as zero in the U.S., attracting investors to the
South Pacific nations’ higher-yielding assets. The risk in such
trades is that currency market moves will erase profits.  
 The Australian dollar traded at 89.50 U.S. cents from 89.57
cents, after earlier reaching 89.81 cents, the most since May 13.
Australia’s currency fetched 78.37 yen from 78.33 yen.  
 South Korea’s Economy  
 The won strengthened for a fifth day versus the dollar as
Asian stock markets advanced.  
 South Korea’s economy may have entered an “expansionary
phase” as it continues to show a stronger-than-expected
recovery, BOK director general  Kim Myung Kee  said today.  
 “This growth number will give the government greater
political power to either raise rates more than expected or
allow a stronger won,” said  Douglas Borthwick , a Connecticut-
based managing director and head of trading for Faros Trading
LLC. “The stronger-than-expected GDP numbers bode well for the
won.”  
 The South Korean currency climbed 0.6 percent to 1,192.60
per dollar. The  MSCI Asia Pacific  Index of shares gained for a
second day, climbing 0.4 percent.  
 Europe’s Stress Tests  
 The euro found buyers on speculation that European banks
will be able to avoid defaults amid the 16-nation region’s debt
crisis.  
 European Union  stress tests found only seven banks need to
raise a combined 3.5 billion euros ($4.5 billion) of capital.
Regulators are using their first coordinated stress tests to
reassure investors about the health of financial institutions
after the debt crisis pummeled the bonds of Greece, Spain and
Portugal. Mounting budget deficits in those countries increased
concern that they won’t be able to pay their debts.  
 “Medium-term accounts look to have come through and picked
up the euro,” said  Adrian Foster , head of financial-markets
research for Asia at Rabobank Groep NV in Hong Kong. “They
don’t see near- to medium-term prospects for a default in
Europe.”  
 Europe’s shared currency has declined 8.1 percent this year,
the biggest loss among its developed-world counterparts,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
has gained 3.1 percent, and the yen has advanced 10 percent.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Hypo Real Estate Holding AG company headquarters sits in Munich. Photographer: Guenter Schiffmann/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- David Forrester, a currency economist at Barclays Capital in Singapore, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the outlook for the euro. 
     The combination of growing confidence in Europe’s economy and mounting evidence of a slowdown in the U.S. is driving euro bears into hiding. After tracking the euro’s slide from about $1.45 at the beginning of 2010, the median forecast of currency strategists has stayed within two cents of $1.20 since the start of June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Forrester, speaking from Singapore, also discusses the results of stress tests on European banks released last week. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Adrian Foster, head of financial-markets research for Asia at Rabobank Groep NV in Hong Kong, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the results of stress tests on European banks and the outlook for the region's economies. 
     European regulators found that seven banks need to raise a combined 3.5 billion euros ($4.5 billion) of capital. Germany’s Hypo Real Estate Holding AG, Agricultural Bank of Greece SA and five Spanish savings banks didn’t have adequate reserves to maintain a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6 percent in the event of a recession and sovereign-debt crisis, lenders and regulators said on July 23. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
