-- Yen May Rise as New Rules Force Mrs. Watanabe to Curb Carry Bets
-- Hiroko Komiya
-- 2010-07-26T03:32:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/yen-may-strengthen-as-regulations-force-mrs-watanabe-to-curb-carry-trades.html

          
          
             The yen may climb next month as
tighter regulations force Japanese households controlling about
$76 billion in daily exchange trading to unwind bets on higher-
yielding currencies, analysts said.  
 The government will cap debt used to boost trading bets, or
leverage, at 50 times committed cash from August 2010, down to
25 times in 2011, the  Financial Services Agency  decided last
year. Individual traders have started to prepare for the change,
according to Japan’s biggest online currency broker which saw
accounts with 100 times or more leverage fall by half last
month.  
 “If margin traders decide to discontinue highly leveraged
transactions, it will put upward pressure on the yen as those
positions are unwound,” said  Yuji Kameoka , senior economist in
Tokyo at Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd., a unit of Japan’s
second-biggest brokerage. “The Australian dollar, a favorite
among margin traders, may feel the pinch in particular.”  
 The yen rose to an eight-year high of 107.32 per euro June
29, and climbed to 86.27 U.S. cents on July 16, near a 14-year
peak of 84.83 set Nov 27. It gained to 72.69 per Australian
dollar on July 1, the highest since May 25. Japan’s currency
traded at 113.23 per euro, 87.62 U.S. cents and 78.36 to the
Aussie as of 12:23 p.m. in Tokyo.  
 The FSA enacted the leverage standards to protect against
excessive losses for customers and aid in risk management in the
financial industry, according to a release by the agency last
year. There was previously no official limit on leverage in
currency margin transactions.  
 Traders who use margin accounts collectively came to be
called “Mrs. Watanabe,” drawing upon the common Japanese
surname and the fact that wives traditionally control the purse
strings in Japanese families.  
 Housewives, Gnomes  
 Bank of Japan Deputy Governor Kiyohiko Nishimura said in
2007 “the housewives of Tokyo” had a stabilizing effect on  currency markets , in contrast to the “gnomes of Zurich,” a
term used by U.K. politician Harold Wilson to describe pound
speculators based in  Switzerland .  
 Benchmark interest rates are 4.5 percent in  Australia  and
2.75 percent in  New Zealand , compared with 0.1 percent in Japan,
attracting investors to the South Pacific nations’ higher-
yielding assets. In carry trades, investors borrow money in
countries with low  interest rates  to invest in higher-yielding
assets.  
 The Australian dollar versus the yen "has historically been
the most-favored play by leveraged Japanese investors,’’ said  Sue Trinh , senior currency strategist in  Hong Kong  at Royal Bank
of  Canada . “Limits on leverage could therefore see reduced
demand from August.”  
 Net Shorts  
 Trinh recommends selling the Australian dollar, saying it
may retest the 72 yen level reached in May amid ebbing sales in
Japan of overseas-focused mutual funds and a pattern of seasonal
weakness for the Aussie in August.  
 Net short  positions on the yen, equivalent to yen carry
trades, stood at 1.89 trillion yen ($21.6 billion) at the end of
June, up 59 percent from the previous month, according to the
Financial Futures Association of Japan, which compiles data from
57 margin brokerages.  
 The average trading volume of foreign currencies in Tokyo
stood at $254.2 billion a day in April 2009, the latest figure
available from the  Foreign Exchange Market Committee . Currency
margin traders account for up to 30 percent of daily turnover,
according to an estimate from JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 “The new leverage regulation just sounds like harassment
for individual traders,” said Nobuhide Suzuki, 42, a Tokyo-
based private investor who leverages exchange trades by 100
times on average. “The reduced leverage limits will simply
deteriorate the efficiency of investment.”  
 ‘Preparatory Mode’  
 Gaitame.com, Japan’s largest foreign-exchange margin
dealer, said 7 percent of its accounts were leveraged at more
than 100 times in its  latest survey  conducted between June 16
and June 23, down from 13.6 percent the previous month.  
 “Individual investors were already in a preparatory mode
ahead of the regulatory tightening, trimming highly-leveraged
positions,” said Tsuyoshi Okada, managing director in Tokyo at
Gaitame.com’s research unit. “The new regulations may spur
intraday volatility at the start.”  
 Japan’s currency typically rises during times of financial
turmoil as the nation’s trade surplus means it doesn’t have to
rely on overseas capital. Global  risk aversion  in the wake of  Europe ’s debt crisis has spurred an 10 percent surge in the yen
in 2010, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes, the most among 10 currencies tracked.  
 Yen-denominated margin accounts had deposits of 595.1
billion yen as of March 2009, according to private-research
institute  Yano Research  Institute Ltd. That’s down from a record
696.4 billion yen a year earlier when the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. accelerated gains in Japan’s currency.  
 “Margin traders are likely to stay on the sidelines
initially to adapt themselves to the new rules and see how
things will develop before they return to the market,” said
Toshiya Yamauchi, a senior foreign-exchange analyst in Tokyo at
Ueda Harlow Ltd.  
 For Related News and Information:
Stories on Currencies: NI FRX 
Foreign-Exchange Information Portal: <a href="bloomberg:%3CF%23%3E1%3CFXIP%3CGO%3E">FXIP 
Stories on Central Banks: <a href="bloomberg:%3CF%23%3E1%3CNI%20CEN%3CGO%3E">NI CEN 
For research on currencies: <a href="bloomberg:%3CF%23%3E1%3CNI%20ANAFX%20BN%3CGO%3E">NI ANAFX BN 
Foreign-exchange forecasts: <a href="bloomberg:%3CF%23%3E1%3CFXFC%3CGO%3E">FXFC   
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Yasuhiko Seki in Tokyo at 
 Yseki5@bloomberg.net ;
<a href="blpnews:linkid=HV2TN58HVKQR">Hiroko Komiya in Tokyo at 
 hirokokomiya1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        