-- Yuan Forwards Little Changed as Central Bank Keeps Reference Rate Steady
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-26T09:39:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/yuan-forwards-little-changed-as-central-bank-keeps-reference-rate-steady.html

          
          
             Yuan forwards were little changed,
following their biggest gain of the month, after the central
bank kept its reference rate steady and bank stress tests in
Europe failed to shore up confidence in the global recovery.  
 European regulators found that seven banks need to raise a
combined 3.5 billion euros ($4.5 billion) of capital out of 91
banks scrutinized, according to releases on July 23. The
People’s Bank of China set the yuan’s daily fixing at 6.7778 per
dollar today, from 6.7790 at the end of last week.  
 “The Europe bank stress-test outcome wasn’t a surprise to
the market and was supposed to ease concerns about the banking
system,” said  Liu Xin , an analyst at the Hong Kong branch of
Bank of Communications Ltd., China’s fifth-biggest lender. “The
spot rate won’t strengthen much this year as there are still
concerns global economic growth may slow.”  
 Twelve-month non-deliverable yuan forwards traded at 6.6925
per dollar as of 5:37 p.m. in Hong Kong, having on July 23
climbed 0.3 percent to 6.6928, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The contracts reflect bets the currency will gain 1.3
percent from the spot rate, which was little changed today at
6.7795. The yuan is allowed to trade 0.5 percent on either side
of the daily reference rate.  
 Liu said his bank predicts the yuan will appreciate as much
as 3 percent this year.  
 Inflation Risk  
 A more flexible yuan can make China’s monetary policy more
effective by helping ease inflation pressure and restraining
asset bubbles, central bank Deputy Governor  Hu Xiaolian  said.  
 “With China’s rapid economic growth, foreign-exchange
inflows have accelerated, and increases in financial liquidity
create potential risks of heightened inflation expectations and
speculation in assets,” Hu wrote in a statement oday on the
central bank’s website. “When the exchange rate was generally
fixed, continuous growth in surpluses of international payments
directly led to the PBOC’s passive additions to money supply.”  
 China’s seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures lending
costs between banks, declined four basis points to 1.73 percent,
according to a daily fixing rate published by the National
Interbank Funding Center data.  
 The rate declined in each of the last four weeks, prompting
the central bank to last week drain a net 81 billion yuan ($11.9
billion) from the financial system. Policy makers injected cash
in each of the previous eight weeks to address a liquidity
shortage that drove the repo rate to a 19-month high of 3.28
percent on June 2. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 The central bank will sell 23 billion yuan of one-year
bills tomorrow via open-market auctions.  
 Government bonds were little changed. The yield on the 3.9
percent note due in August 2014 was 2.48 percent, and the price
of the security was 105.44 per 100 yuan face amount, according
to the Funding Center.  
 “There is no clear direction in bonds trading due to a
lack of market-moving news,” said  Du Gang , a Shenzhen-based
bond analyst at Shenzhen Development Bank Co. “The yields on
the central bank’s bills this week may provide guidance before
July economic data come out.”  
 -- Belinda Cao . Editors:  James Regan ,  Simon Harvey   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Belinda Cao in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570 or
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        