-- Yuan Peg `Severely Challenged' China Monetary Policy, Central Banker Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-26T08:37:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/yuan-peg-severely-challenged-china-monetary-policy-central-banker-says.html

          
          
             A “fixed” yuan exchange rate
caused excess capital in China’s financial system that may stoke
inflation, making it difficult to manage the economy, central
bank Deputy Governor  Hu Xiaolian   said  today.  
 China pegged the yuan at around 6.83 per dollar for two
years before abandoning the regime on June 19 and has allowed
the currency to appreciate 0.7 percent since then. The policy
swelled foreign-exchange reserves to a record $2.45 trillion in
June, the world’s largest, as the central bank mopped up dollars
and flooded the market with yuan.  
 “With China’s rapid economic growth, foreign-exchange
inflows have accelerated, and increases in financial liquidity
create potential risks of heightened inflation expectations and
speculation in assets,” Hu wrote in a statement on the People’s
Bank of China’s website. The independence and effectiveness of
China’s monetary policy has been “severely challenged.”  
 Chinese policy makers have spent the first half of the year
seeking to prevent property-price bubbles and contain  inflation ,
which receded last month to 2.9 percent after reaching a 19-
month high of 3.1 percent in May. The central bank asked lenders
to set aside more money as reserves for the third time this year
on May 2 to slow growth in loans.  
 The economy expanded 10.3 percent in the second quarter,
after growing 11.9 percent in the previous three months, the
fastest pace since the period ended June 2007.  
 ‘Passive Additions’  
 The central bank holds weekly auctions of bills due in
three years, one year and three months to remove excess funds
from the financial system caused by the foreign-currency inflows,
a process called sterilization.  
 “When the exchange rate was generally fixed, continuous
growth in surpluses of international payments directly led to
the PBOC’s passive additions to money supply.”  
 The statement today was the third in less than two weeks by
the central bank to present the nation’s yuan policy since it
said on June 19 it would allow a more “flexible’ yuan with
reference to a currency basket.  
 Twelve-month non-deliverable yuan forwards were little
changed today at 6.6928, after slumping 0.4 percent last week,
the biggest five-day loss since May 21. The contracts reflect
traders’ bets that the currency will appreciate 1.3 percent in a
year from the spot rate of 6.7809.  
 Forwards are agreements where assets are bought and sold at
current prices for future delivery. Non-deliverable forwards are
settled in dollars rather than the local currency.  
 As “sterilization tools” for managing liquidity, the
central bank’s large bill issues in open-market operations and
frequent adjustments to banks’ deposit reserve ratios affected
the operation of commercial lenders and the efficiency of the
financial system, according to Hu. The cost of sterilization is
also “gradually increasing,” she said.  
 -- Belinda Cao  in Beijing. Editor:  Simon Harvey ,  Ven Ram   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        