-- Zijin Shares Suspended From Trading for a Second Day Pending Announcement
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-27T02:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/zijin-mining-says-its-shares-stay-suspended-another-day-pending-statement.html

          
          
             Zijin Mining Group Co. , the Chinese
gold producer blamed for the industry’s worst spill in two
years, extended a trading halt pending a price-sensitive
announcement.  
 The company told Hong Kong’s stock exchange that an
“important matter” is “still in process” and so no
disclosure could yet be made, when it requested the extension of
the halt late yesterday.  
 Limits will be placed on production at Zijin’s Zijinshan
mine, the China Securities Journal reported today, citing an
unidentified person with knowledge of the situation. The company
has “no comment” to make on the newspaper report before the
announcement,  Fan Cheung Man , Hong Kong-based company secretary,
said today by phone.  Zhao Jugang , a Zijin spokesman, didn’t
answer calls by Bloomberg News seeking comment.  
 Zijin was forced to shut the copper plant at Zijinshan in
Fujian province on July 13 after acid-laced waste spilled from
the site, poisoning enough fish to feed 72,000 residents for a
year. Zijin, which waited nine days to reveal the spill, is
being probed over disclosure of the incident by the China
Securities Regulatory Commission.  
 Zijin  gained 3.7 percent to HK$4.99 when last traded on
July 23, narrowing its decline to 11 percent since announcing
the leak on July 13. In Shanghai, the shares have dropped 4.3
percent.  
 The Zijinshan copper plant’s manager, deputy manager and
the head of environment were detained for the leak that polluted
the Ting River, the company’s China-based Company Secretary
 Zheng Yuqiang  said July 16. It was the worst accident in the
Chinese gold mining industry since July 2008, when runoff from a
Zhongjin Gold Corp. site in Dandong poisoned the water supply
for 210,000 people.  
 The Guangdong government stopped all fishing in the Ting
River until at least the end of July amid concern the spill is
widening to a second province. The Guangdong and Fujian
provincial governments are studying compensation demands for the
fishing losses, Zijin’s Zhao said July 23.  
 -- Huang Zhe ,  Helen Yuan : Editors:  Andrew Hobbs ,  Indranil Ghosh   
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Zhe Huang  in Beijing at 
 zhuang37@bloomberg.net 
 Helen Yuan  in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        