-- Zijin Mining Shares Halted Pending Price-Sensitive Statement After Spill
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-26T04:19:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/zijin-mining-stock-suspended-in-hong-kong-before-price-sensitive-statement.html

          
          
             Zijin Mining Group Co. , the Chinese
gold producer blamed for the industry’s worst spill in two
years, was suspended from trading in Hong Kong and Shanghai
today pending a price-sensitive announcement.  
 Zijin didn’t elaborate on the reasons for the halt,
according to statements posted on the two stock exchanges. Zijin
will make the announcement today after the market closes,  Fan Cheung Man , Zijin’s Hong Kong-based spokesman, said by phone,
without elaborating.  
 China’s biggest gold producer was forced to shut its copper
plant at Zijinshan in Fujian province on July 13 after acid-
laced waste spilled from the site, poisoning enough fish to feed
72,000 residents for a year. Zijin, which waited nine days to
reveal the spill, is being probed over disclosure of the
incident by the China Securities Regulatory Commission.  
 Zijin  gained 3.7 percent to HK$4.99 on July 23, narrowing
its decline to 11 percent since announcing the leak on July 13.
In Shanghai, the shares have dropped 4.3 percent.  
 The Zijinshan copper plant’s manager, deputy manager and
the head of environment were detained for the leak that polluted
the Ting River, company secretary  Zheng Yuqiang  said July 16. It
was the worst accident in the Chinese gold mining since July
2008, when runoff from a Zhongjin Gold Corp. site in Dandong
poisoned the water supply of 210,000 people.  
 The Guangdong government stopped all fishing in the Ting
River until at least the end of July amid concern the spill is
widening to a second province. The Guangdong and Fujian
provincial governments are studying compensation demands for the
fishing losses,  Zhao Jugang , a company spokesman, said July 23.  
 Zijin hasn’t been told of a penalty or compensation it
would have to pay yet, Zhao said at the time. Zhao and Zheng
declined to comment immediately today.  
 -- Helen Yuan . Editors:  Andrew Hobbs ,  Keith Gosman   
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at   
          
          


  


        