-- Zimbabwe May Cut Its Demand For Black Ownership to 15% of Local Operations
-- Ron Derby
-- 2010-07-26T15:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-26/zimbabwe-may-cut-its-demand-for-black-ownership-to-15-of-local-operations.html

          
          
             Zimbabwe may water down a demand
that foreign companies hand over majority stakes in their local
operations to black investors, instead asking that they sell 15
percent holdings and invest in social programs, the country’s
Chief Mining Commissioner said.  
 Achieving a 51 percent black-ownership level was proving to
be the “major obstacle” to implementing the law, Chief Mining
Commissioner Fredson Mabhena said in Johannesburg today. “It
looks like direct equity could be a 15 percent stake, with the
balance achieved through corporate social investments.” The
terms of the bill have yet to be completed, he said.  
 The proposed black ownership legislation was scheduled to
come into effect on March 1, giving companies worth more than
$500,000 five years to increase the proportion of their assets
owned by black investors, according to a copy of the law
distributed by non-governmental organization Veritas Trust.  
 Zimbabwe on May 18 extended a deadline by which all
affected businesses must say how they plan to meet the
requirements, Indigenization and Empowerment Minister  Saviour Kasukuwere  said that day.  
 Zimbabwe is trying to rebuild its economy after a decade of
political turmoil and recession under the leadership of
President  Robert Mugabe . The country has the world’s second-
largest reserves of platinum and chrome after South Africa, as
well as deposits of gold, coal, diamonds and nickel.  
 ‘Win-Win Solution’  
 Mining companies would be among the first businesses
targeted in the effort to hand control to black Zimbabweans,
Kasukuwere said on April 21 from the capital, Harare.  
 Anglo American Plc , which controls the world’s biggest
platinum producer, and South African insurer  Old Mutual Plc  both
have operations in the country. Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd.,
the second-largest producer of the metal, said on May 17 it is
pushing ahead with a $500 million expansion in Zimbabwe even as
talks with government over black-ownership rules continue.  
 Black investors in Zimbabwe are facing difficulties raising
funds to buy controlling stakes in foreign-owned companies in
the country, Anglo Platinum Ltd. spokeswoman  Mary-Jane Morifi 
said by mobile phone. “We’re engaging with government to come
up with a solution which is a win-win for company and country.”  
 The company, which is 79.7 percent owned by Anglo American,
is drawing up plans to boost its involvement in infrastructure
development and “other community programs” in Zimbabwe, she
said. Anglo Platinum’s Unki mine, being built in the south of
the country, is scheduled to start production in the fourth
quarter of the year.  
 “Investors are saying they can’t invest until they know”
the final terms of the black-ownership laws, Mabhena said.
“We’ve been consulting and listening to industry.”  
 Aquarius Platinum Ltd. operates in Zimbabwe, while Rio
Tinto Plc has a diamond mine.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Zimbabwe is trying to rebuild its economy  
                       
                         
                           Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Zimbabwe's president Robert Mugabe. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Zimbabwe's president Robert Mugabe. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
