-- Fed's Kohn hints at December rate cut
-- By Tamawa Kadoya
-- Wed Nov 28, 2007 5:02pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/11/28/businesspro-usa-fed-dc-idUSN2841644620071128

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve's second in 
command on Wednesday signaled a readiness to cut interest rates 
again, acknowledging that financial market turmoil could slow 
the U.S. economy and the central bank must be flexible. 

  "Uncertainties about the economic outlook are unusually 
high right now," Fed Vice Chairman Donald Kohn told the Council 
on Foreign Relations in New York. "These uncertainties require 
flexible and pragmatic policy-making -- nimble is the adjective 
I used a few weeks ago."  U.S. banks have written off billions of dollars in recent 
weeks due to losses in the subprime credit market, provoking 
fresh turmoil in financial markets that had only just recovered 
from the extreme jitters set off by credit fears in August.  Kohn sent Wall Street stocks soaring, with the Dow Jones 
industrial average  .DJI  advancing over 300 points as 
investors read his remarks as a strong hint of another quarter 
point cut at the next Fed rate-setting meeting on December 11.  Kohn's sober assessment also coincided with a separate Fed 
report underlining the drag being exerted on the wider U.S. 
economy by the weak housing sector.  The Beige Book, based on reports from the 12 regional 
Federal Reserve branches, noted that seven Fed districts had 
reported a slower pace of growth, while conditions in the 
remaining five districts were modest or mixed.  "The national economy continued to expand during the survey 
period of October through mid-November but at a reduced pace," 
the Fed said.  Kohn explicitly nodded to the deterioration since the Fed 
last met to discuss policy, on October 30-31. At that meeting 
it lowered rates by a quarter point to 4.5 percent, but said 
the risks to growth and inflation were roughly balanced.  Since then investors have grown alarmed by weak economic 
data, opening a clear divergence between market expectations 
for future rate cuts and the impression created by the Fed in 
October that its easing campaign was finished.  Kohn helped to close that gap by acknowledging the recent 
drying up of liquidity, as banks hoard cash to offset further 
possible credit-related losses, had caught him off guard and 
was a cause for concern.  "I have to admit that, speaking for myself ... the degree 
of deterioration that has happened over the last couple of 
weeks was not something that I personally anticipated," he said 
in response to questions after his speech.  "Financial institutions became more cautious, and I think 
this process is one that we are going to have to take a look at 
when we meet in a couple of weeks," Kohn said, adding the 
central bank was looking at "lots" of different ways to supply 
liquidity to the markets.  His remarks contrasted sharply with comments from other 
members of the Fed's interest rate-setting committee, including 
a speech by Dallas Fed Bank President Richard Fisher that 
explicitly spelled out there was a split among policy-makers 
regarding the risks between inflation and growth.  "There are people at the (Federal Open Market Committee) 
table, myself included, that are very concerned about 
inflationary pressure. I don't think we're done in terms of 
getting it to where we want it to get," he told a community 
forum hosted by the Dallas Fed in Amarillo, Texas.  Fisher's words followed warnings from two other regional 
Fed bank presidents on Tuesday.  Chicago Fed chief Charles Evans said the stance of monetary 
policy was consistent with the Fed's objectives of steady 
growth and low inflation. Philadelphia Fed President Charles 
Plosser said that rate cuts risked inflation and could even 
slow the return of financial stability.  The difference between the tone of Kohn's comments and the 
others was spotted immediately.  "It sounded nothing like anything we've heard since the 
last meeting from other FOMC members," said Laurence Meyer, a 
former Fed governor attending the same event with Kohn. "It's 
not a surprise because the only FOMC members that can change 
the message are the vice chairman and the chairman."  (Additional reporting by  Mark Felsenthal ,  Alister Bull , Tim 
Ahmann and  Glenn Somerville  in Washington and  Ed Stoddard  in 
Amarillo; Writing by Alister Bull; Editing by  Neil Stempleman )