-- What the Fed is considering at its meeting
-- 
-- Tue Jan 30, 2007 12:45pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/30/businesspro-usa-fed-considering-dc-idUSN2922577320070130

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Financial markets widely expect the 
U.S. Federal Reserve to hold benchmark interest rates steady on 
Wednesday, marking the fifth straight meeting it has stayed on 
hold after 17 increases that ended last June. 


  Markets will likely comb through the Fed's statement for 
insight into its policy outlook. Unexpectedly robust economic 
data have eased concerns of an economic downturn, prompting 
markets to scale back expectations for rate cuts this year.  In fact, some analysts are now predicting the Fed will 
raise rates later this year as a rebounding economy tightens 
demand and puts pressure on prices.  Federal funds futures contracts imply the likelihood of the 
Fed holding steady for most of 2007. Meanwhile, yields on 
benchmark 10-year Treasury bonds have risen above 4.8 percent 
from around 4.4 percent in early December.  Another focus may be whether the FOMC will decide by 
unanimous vote to keep rates steady, as four-time dissenter 
Richmond Federal Reserve Bank President Jeffrey Lacker will not 
be among the voting members this year in the annual rotation of 
voting regional Fed bank presidents.  Here are some factors that policy-makers are likely 
considering:  * Economic data for December was mostly robust, allaying 
concerns about some soft economic sectors.  * U.S. industrial production gained a 
stronger-than-expected 0.4 percent in December, showing output 
had held up late last year.  * New orders for U.S.-made durable goods rose 3.1 percent 
in December. Excluding volatile transportation orders, durable 
goods orders rose 2.3 percent in December following two monthly 
declines.  * New-home sales rose 4.8 percent in December to an annual 
pace of 1.12 million units.  * Labor market remained tight. The Labor Department said 
167,000 jobs were created in December and also revised up 
hiring for each of the two preceding months. The unemployment 
rate in December was 4.5 percent, unchanged from November. 
December jobs data will be released on Friday, with a median 
forecast for an increase of 149,000 in non-farm payrolls.  * Core inflation remained tame, and oil prices briefly fell 
below $50 a barrel. Over the 12 months through November, the 
price index for personal consumption expenditures excluding 
food and energy eased to 2.2 percent, its lowest since May.  * Core consumer prices rose 0.2 percent in December, as 
expected. Year-over-year, the index gained 2.6 percent, 
matching the November increase  * Consumer confidence index rose to 110.3 in January from 
an upwardly revised 110.0 reading in December.  * Fourth quarter GDP will be released on Wednesday. 
Economists polled by Reuters forecast the economy grew at a 3 
percent annual rate in the fourth quarter, rising from the 2 
percent growth pace of the previous quarter.  * U.S. manufacturing activity probably expanded at a 
slightly faster pace in January from December. The Institute 
for Supply Management's manufacturing index is expected to rise 
51.9 in January from 51.4 in December, the median forecast in a 
Reuters survey showed. The data will be released on Thursday.
  WHAT THE FED HAS SAID  * Minutes from the FOMC meeting on Dec 12 showed inflation 
was the predominant concern among policy-makers, although some 
expressed concerns about the "subdued tone" of some indicators.  * Fed policy-makers seemed to indicate interest rates will 
remain steady. On January 11, Fed Governor Susan Bies said the 
U.S. economy, outside the soft housing and automobile sectors, 
was "moving along at a very, very healthy pace."  * Fed Vice Chairman Donald Kohn said on January 8 that 
while a gradual decline in core inflation was likely, that path 
was still by no means assured.  * The Fed's Beige Book released on January 17 said the pace 
of U.S. economic activity grew modestly as 2006 was ending.