-- M&A Slowdown May Persist After Dealmaking Fizzles in First Half
-- Serena Saitto
-- 2010-06-29T23:39:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/m-a-slowdown-in-2010-may-persist-after-dealmaking-fizzles-in-first-half.html

          
          
             A recovery in mergers and
acquisitions may fail to emerge in 2010 after dealmaking fizzled
in the first half, with the biggest takeover collapsing and
stock markets erasing gains for the year.  
 The second quarter was marked by the unraveling of London-
based Prudential Plc’s $35.5 billion agreement in March to buy
American International Group Inc.’s AIA unit. That contributed
to a 2 percent decline in global takeovers to $872.9 billion
from $891.7 billion in the first half of 2009, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The drop followed a 5 percent increase in
transactions in the first quarter of this year.  
 “The momentum has currently stalled as volatility in the
capital markets is making for a challenging deal environment,”
said  Jeff Kaplan , global head of M&A at Bank of America Corp.
“Strategic buyers will likely remain cautious until there’s
greater stability in the equity and credit markets.”  
 Stocks around the world posted the biggest losses in the
second quarter since the bull market began last year, prompting
many companies to hoard burgeoning cash piles and making June
the worst month for deals since July 2009. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index  and the MSCI World Index of shares in 24 developed
nations sank 11 percent and 13 percent, respectively, in the
second quarter. The VIX, the  Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index,  almost doubled in the second quarter to 34.07
yesterday from 17.47 on April 1. The index, which measures the
cost of using options as insurance against declines in the S&P
500, peaked on May 20 at 45.79.  
 ‘More Challenging’  
 “It is more challenging to undertake meaningful M&A when
your crystal ball is so cloudy,” said  Brett Olsher , Deutsche
Bank AG’s global co-head of M&A. “It is not all bad news
however. We just haven’t seen the sustained upturn that some
were predicting at the start of this year.”  
 Robert Kindler , Morgan Stanley’s global head of M&A, said
deal levels will be unchanged from last year, when volume fell
about 37 percent to $1.75 trillion.  
 “In volatile equity markets, stock for stock deals are
more likely,” Kindler said.  
 Morgan Stanley advised Denver-based Qwest Communications
International Inc. in a $10.5 billion stock takeover by
CenturyTel Inc. in April, the second-biggest deal of the year.
It advised Continental Airlines Inc. on a $3 billion stock-swap
merger with UAL Corp.’s United Airlines in May.  
 ‘Transformational’  
 New York-based Morgan Stanley ranks third among financial
advisers with $145.3 billion of deals so far this year,
according to Bloomberg data. New York-based Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. tops the list with $168.8 billion of transactions, followed
by Zurich-based Credit Suisse Group AG.  
 The 7.8 billion-pound ($11.6 billion) offer by  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. in June to buy the 61 percent stake it
doesn’t already own in British Sky Broadcasting Plc is the type
of transaction bankers expect to see this year.  
 “Moves like News Corp.’s on BSkyB are more likely, while
transformational deals, with which companies invest far from
their core business, are less likely until the cycle peaks
again,’’ said  Andy Lipsky , head of M&A for the Americas at
Credit Suisse.  
 Europe’s debt crisis and global market volatility decreased
the attractiveness of riskier asset classes in the first half,
making it more expensive for companies to finance new deals. The
extra yield investors demand to own junk-rated debt instead of
Treasuries was 7.06 percentage points yesterday, up from a low
this year of 5.42 percentage points April 26, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch data.  
 Smaller Deals  
 “Big leveraged buyouts are more difficult to contemplate
in this environment,” said Bank of America’s Kaplan, who
instead says conditions are ripe for smaller deals.  
 Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America was among
banks financing the $15 billion proposed leveraged buyout of
Fidelity National Information Services Inc. by  Blackstone Group
LP , Thomas H. Lee Partners LP and TPG Capital. The deal fell
apart in May after Fidelity National sought a higher price,
underscoring a fragile recovery for LBO firms, which announced a
record $1.6 trillion of deals from 2005 to 2007 before credit
markets froze. Still, private-equity firms sit on unused funds
after they raised $538 billion in 2006 and $587 billion in 2007,
just before the recession, according to the Private Equity
Council in Washington.  
 “Although interest rates have come up, credit markets are
still very strong and we will see a continuation of small-medium
sized LBOs,” Kindler said.  
 Cross-Border Deals  
 Dealmakers see M&A activity spread across industries for
the rest of 2010, with pockets of strength in technology,
financial services and natural resources, where the planned sale
of at least $10 billion of assets by  BP Plc  will boost deal
volume.  
 “Once the spill has been contained, there is likely to be
consolidation in the energy sector,” said Kaplan, referring to
BP’s plan to sell assets to help pay for cleanup and legal costs
from the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  
 Declines in the euro and the British pound against the
dollar since the beginning of the year provide a strong backdrop
for M&A in Europe, dealmakers say.  
 Glenn Schiffman , head of Americas investment banking for
 Nomura Holdings Inc. , Japan’s largest brokerage, predicts an
increase in cross-border deals. “Many Asian companies are cash-
rich and in some cases are now more willing to look overseas for
acquisitions to build their international businesses,” said
Schiffman.  
 Amassing Cash  
 The average cash position of the 418 non-financial
companies in the S&P 500 increased by 20 percent in the first
quarter, according to Bloomberg data. European companies such as
Nestle SA are also amassing  cash  and may seek acquisitions to
spur growth. Europe’s largest company by market value will
receive $28.1 billion from Novartis AG for its majority stake in
Alcon Inc., enough to buy any of Nestle’s rivals in food and
non-alcoholic beverages save the six biggest. That includes
adding a 22 percent average premium that the Swiss company paid
to acquire listed companies since 2000.  
 “The gun is loaded, and it has been loaded for a long
time, and while boards have been reluctant to pull the trigger,
that is starting to ease,” said  Wilhelm Schulz , head of
European M&A at  Citigroup Inc.  “The trend now is all about
Europe being seen as a target and Asia being seen as a place for
growth and expansion.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Serena Saitto  in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Robert Kindler, Morgan Stanley’s global head of M&A, said deal levels will be unchanged from last year, when volume fell about 37 percent to $1.75 trillion. Photographer: David Karp/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
