-- `Deep Cover' Spies Worked Day Jobs to Glean Data for Russia
-- David Glovin
-- 2010-06-30T18:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/-deep-cover-russian-spies-had-day-jobs-including-consultant-columnist.html

          
          
             Three of the accused “deep-cover”
Russian spies may have had jobs that put them in contact with
opinion makers, corporate executives or aspiring technology
industry workers.  
 Donald Heathfield  lived in a Cambridge, Massachusetts,
apartment where he ran a management consulting company called
Future Map. It claimed to have offices in Paris and Singapore,
according to public databases and Future Map’s website. Vicky
Pelaez wrote columns for El Diario La Prensa, the oldest
Spanish-language newspaper in New York.  Anna Chapman  posted an
online ad seeking “bright graduates” for an Internet startup.  
 Leon Aron , resident scholar and director of Russian studies
at the Washington-based American Enterprise Institute, said he
wasn’t surprised by the disclosure of the alleged “sleepers”
or the jobs they took.  
 “This is a very soft, ill-defined, broad-netted search not
for hard facts intelligence but to divine the internal workings
of the American political system,” he said yesterday in a phone
interview.  
 The three were among 10 people arrested June 28 who
prosecutors said were part of a Russian spy ring that tried to
infiltrate U.S. policy-making circles, according to two criminal
complaints by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. An 11th
suspect was arrested in Cyprus yesterday by local police.  
 Cyprus police will issue an arrest warrant for that
suspect, Robert Christopher Metsos, after he failed to appear
today for a scheduled meeting with police while on bail,
according to spokesman Michalis Katsounotos.  
 ‘Americanized’  
 The FBI said the people used false identities, coded
communications, secret payments and clandestine movements to
disguise their efforts to pass data to Russia and recruit
sources. Some of the accused lived in the U.S. for more than 20
years, with the goal of becoming “Americanized” and passing
intelligence back to Russia, according to the complaints.  
 “In addition to seeing how policy is made, it appears that
they were also looking at how technology was made,” Aron said.
“The Soviet Union and then Russia were always fascinated by why
the U.S. constantly undergoes these explosions of new
technologies and new knowledge.”  
 Court documents don’t identify the jobs of the suspects,
who lived near New York City, Boston and Washington. Internet
searches show that Heathfield, Pelaez and Chapman each worked in
jobs that may have exposed them to potential sources of
information.  
 Heathfield was chief executive officer of Future Map. The
company’s website says its goal is “developing strategic
proactivity.”  
 ‘Global Repository’  
 “Our mission is to help governments, enterprises and
international organizations better prepare for the future,”
according to the website. “We strive to establish Future Map as
a global repository of information about anticipated events.”  
 Calls to Future Map’s offices in Paris and Cambridge went
unanswered. A man who answered the phone at the company’s
Singapore headquarters said he was “stunned” by the news.  
 “I am extremely surprised” the man said, declining to
provide his name. “I really don’t know what to make of it.”  
 According to the complaint, Heathfield and his wife, Tracey
Foley, were directed by their controllers in Moscow to focus on
turnover at the Central Intelligence Agency and the 2008
presidential election.  
 From his base near Harvard Square, Heathfield made contact
with a former high-ranking U.S. government national security
official, according to the complaint. In 2004, he met with an
employee of the U.S. government “with regard to nuclear weapons
research.”  
 Master’s Degree  
 Heathfield got a master’s degree in public administration
in 2000 from Harvard University’s Kennedy  School of Government ,
said school spokesman Jake Ackman.  
 Heathfield’s LinkedIn page says Future Map “enables
governments and businesses to develop comprehensive preparedness
systems and build a culture of strategic pro-activity and
anticipatory leadership.”  
 From May 2000 to May 2006, Heathfield was also a partner at
 Global Partners Inc. , a “global corporate business development
and executive education consultancy,” according to the page on
the business networking website.  
 His groups on his LinkedIn page include the Society of
Competitive Intelligence Professionals, Business Intelligence
Group and Strategic Business and Competitive Intelligence.  
 Pelaez wrote columns for El Diario, according to Ellen
Shaffren, who lives in Yonkers, New York, across the street from
Pelaez and her husband, Juan Lazaro, who was also arrested.
Scott Mautner, the general counsel of Los Angeles-based
ImpreMedia LLC, El Diario’s parent, declined to comment.  
 Fidel Castro  
 An Internet search reveals columns by Pelaez assailing the
U.S. prison industry as practicing “slavery” and commenting on
 Fidel Castro ’s regime in Cuba.  
 According to the complaint, Pelaez is a U.S. citizen born
in Peru. The complaint cites instances in which she and Lazaro
received tens of thousands of dollars in cash from contacts they
met in an unidentified South American country while gathering
information to send back to “Moscow Center,” the headquarters
for Russian intelligence.  
 In 2002, Lazaro complained that Moscow Center was
dismissive of his information because he didn’t identify his
sources, according to the FBI.  
 “Put down any politician here,” Pelaez told him,
according to the complaint.  
 ‘Prominent New York-Based Financier’  
 Among those arrested were Cynthia and Richard Murphy of
Montclair, New Jersey. The FBI said Cynthia Murphy had several
work-related meetings with a “prominent New York-based
financier” whose name is omitted from the arrest complaint.
Superiors in Moscow instructed Murphy to work on the
relationship and try to obtain foreign policy rumors and
invitations to political events, according to the complaint.  
 Neighbors in Montclair said Richard Murphy appeared to be a
stay-at-home dad with their two small children, and his wife got
a graduate degree from Columbia University. A spokeswoman for
Columbia Business School,  Jane Trombley , said in an e-mail that
Cynthia A. Murphy got a master’s of business administration last
month.  
 In an interview with the Washington Post,  Alan Patricof , a
confidant of  Bill  and  Hillary Clinton  and a Democratic
fundraiser, said he believed himself to be the financier
referred to in the complaint.  
 In an e-mailed statement, Patricof said Cynthia Murphy
worked at Morea Financial Group, a New York firm he hired 2 1/2
years ago to handle his personal bookkeeping, bill paying,
accounting and tax services.  
 Personal Finances  
 Patricof, the founder and managing partner of Greycroft
LLC, said he met Murphy “a limited number of times” and spoke
with her “frequently” on the phone about his personal
finances.  
 “We never -- not once -- discussed any matter other than
my finances and certainly she never inquired about, nor did we
ever discuss, any matters relating to politics, the government
or world affairs,” he said. “Since I understand she was
employed by Morea approximately 10 years before I became a
client, I highly doubt that I could have been an intended target
by her.”  
 Murphy has been a certified financial planner since 2005,
according to the Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards
Inc.  
 Calls for comment to Barbara Morea, president of Morea
Financial Services, weren’t immediately returned.  
 Chapman  
 Unlike nine others arrested on June 28, Chapman, 28, lived
under her real name in New York City, according to the
complaint. It cites her surreptitious communications through a
private wireless network with Russian government officials, and
says she agreed last weekend to deliver a fraudulent passport to
a person she believed was an accomplice.  
 Chapman is listed in an online ad as the contact for a
lower Manhattan company called PropertyFinder. The ad says an
“Internet start-up” was seeking “ambitious” interns. A call
to PropertyFinder wasn’t answered.  
 “This position is ideal for those that love start-ups and
looking to create something that gives value, know how to, not
scared to get in touch with clients, hardworking and prepared to
do what it takes to succeed in New York City!” the ad said in
fractured English.  
 Chapman’s LinkedIn page said she had been CEO of
PropertyFinder since October 2006.  
 “Love launching innovative high-tech start-ups and
building passionate teams to bring value into market!,” she
wrote.  
 Domdot  
 It said she is the founder of Domdot.ru, which it described
as a “search engine in real estate for Russian speaking
people.”  
 She wrote: “I have been involved in running all aspects of
business, setting strategy for development, international
expansion, people management, Investors reporting.”  
 Russian is Chapman’s native language, while she is fluent
in English, conversational in German and has basic command of
French, according to her LinkedIn page.  
 She said she worked at Barclays Plc in London from August
2004 to July 2005 in the position of “slave.” Barclays
spokeswoman  Monique Wise  said bank records show she worked in
the small business section of Barclays retail bank.  
 Chapman also said she worked for two hedge funds and a
private aviation firm, selling jets to companies and individuals
in Russia and engaging in “high-end client interaction
targeting senior executives and key decision makers.”  
 At the top of the online ad for PropertyFinder is a listing
for two other jobs. One of them is for internships with the CIA.  
 Cash in a Newspaper  
 Another suspect who operated under his true name was
Mikhail Semenko, according to his FBI arrest complaint. Semenko
met on June 26 in Washington with an FBI undercover agent who
passed him $5,000 in cash wrapped in a newspaper that he was
supposed to drop under a bridge.  
 Semenko worked as a travel specialist at Travel All Russia
LLC, according to his LinkedIn page. In 2008, he got dual
master’s degrees in Asian studies as well as diplomacy and
international relations at Seton Hall University in South
Orange, New Jersey, according to spokeswoman Jill Matthews.  
 Semenko is fluent in Russian, Chinese, English and Spanish,
according to his LinkedIn page.  
 The agents would be useful for “certain kinds of
intelligence gathering,” said Kevin Ryan, executive director
for research at the Belfer Center at Harvard’s Kennedy School.  
 “If you wanted to get yourself into the middle of a
political party or company and work your way to the highest
levels over time, then you could report back about what they’re
thinking inside and what’s their intent,” Ryan said. “Those
are the kinds of things that are hard to pick up just from
reading about it in the press.”  
 The cases are U.S. v. Metsos; U.S. v. Chapman, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Glovin  in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     This drawing dated June 28, 2010 shows five of the 10 arrested Russian spy suspects in a New York courtroom. Source: Shirley Shepard/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- Mark Galeotti, professor at New York University, talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman about the arrest of 10 members of an alleged Russian spy ring.
     Federal agents arrested 10 alleged members of a “long-term, deep-cover” Russian spy ring whose ultimate goal was to infiltrate U.S. policy-making circles, according to the Justice Department. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
