-- `Life or Death' Irish Rugby Clash Sees Murdoch's BSkyB Tackled by Minister
-- Dara Doyle
-- 2010-06-29T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/-life-or-death-irish-rugby-clash-sees-murdoch-s-bskyb-tackled-by-minister.html

          
          
             Rupert Murdoch  may about to be rugby
tackled by an Irish politician.  
 The Australian media billionaire’s subscription-based
 British Sky Broadcasting Plc  controls the right to show Heineken
Cup rugby games, the equivalent of soccer’s Champions League, on
its pay-per-view channels. Irish Communications Minister  Eamon Ryan  wants the games shown free to foster interest in rugby.  
 “If kids don’t get to see their heroes, it damages the
sport’s long-term prospects,” Ryan, responsible for television
and radio since 2007, said in an interview in his Dublin office.
“Why is Brazil good at soccer? Because it’s everywhere.”  
 At the heart of the battle is a dilemma affecting rugby,
cricket and other sports that tend to be overshadowed by soccer
in Europe: whether money generated from broadcast rights helps
develop the game more than from attracting a wider audience.  
 At stake in Ireland is the future of one of Europe’s most
successful rugby powers, according to the  Irish Rugby Football
Union . The organization would lose 12 million euros ($14.5
million) of annual income by “breaking and destabilizing”
contracts with sponsors, the IRFU  said . In the recession, it
would be “life or death” for the Irish game, it said.  
 Ryan, due to make a final  decision  in coming months, said
the games are part of Ireland’s “social fabric.” Behind soccer
and Gaelic games, rugby is the country’s most popular sport.  
 About 250,000 viewers saw Irish province  Leinster ’s
Heineken Cup quarter final in 2006 on state broadcaster RTE,
Ryan said. Some 47,000 people watched the equivalent game this
year on  Sky Sports,  he said, mostly in bars.  
 Slam Success  
 The proposals have gone out for consultation until July 4.
Sky said it was participating in the process.  
 “Sky believes that Sports bodies know what is right for
their future,” the company said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “Removing their choice on how to sell their rights,
through listing, would have a major impact on their sport.”  
 Irish rugby authorities say a direct line can be drawn
between the Sky money and the country’s success.  
 Last year, the national team won its first Grand Slam in 61
years by defeating the five other countries in the  Six Nations 
championship. Irish provincial sides Leinster and Munster have
won three of the last five Heineken Cups. The Six Nations
matches are aired on  RTE .  
 Playing at Home  
 Unlike in soccer, Ireland’s best rugby players play at
home. The IRFU says the income from Sky, which amounts to about
20 percent of its overall revenue, allows it to offer contracts
to players in the national team and keep them fresh by limiting
the number of games they play for their clubs.  
 “Irish players trained here, had their playing schedules
managed here, played here and lived here,”  Philip Browne , chief
executive officer of the IRFU, said in a June 3 presentation to
the parliamentary committee that oversees sport. “This system
is the envy of the rugby world.”  
 Sky’s deal to show the Heineken Cup in the U.K. and Ireland
runs until 2014. It accounts for about 41 percent of the
broadcasting income of ERC Limited, the company that runs the
tournament.  ERC  didn’t give any details of the fee. A Sky
spokeswoman didn’t return calls or an e-mail.  
 “What we are saying to the minister is don’t tie our hands
when it comes to negotiating our rights,” said  Mark Jones , a
spokesman for the ERC. “Sky is watching closely.”  
 Rupert Murdoch’s  News Corp.  on June 15 offered to buy the
61 percent it doesn’t already own of BSkyB. BSkyB will give its
independent directors the final recommendation on the offer
because four out of BSkyB’s 14 board members are linked to News
Corp., including Chairman  James Murdoch , Rupert’s son.  
 In all, the Irish government poured 250 million euros into
rugby, including renovating the national team’s Aviva stadium
and  Thomond Park , the home of Munster.  
 Against that backdrop, Ryan last month proposed the
widening of the free-to-air rules. “I’ll listen; it would be
silly not to,” said Ryan. “We have skin in this game.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dara Doyle  in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        