-- Accor's Voucher Unit May Get More Generous Rating Than Hotels After Split
-- Armorel Kenna
-- 2010-06-29T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/accor-s-voucher-unit-may-get-more-generous-rating-than-hotels-after-split.html

          
          
             Accor SA ’s services unit will
probably be rated higher than peers when it separates from the
company’s hotels this week, as investors seek to tap growth
potential in meal and childcare vouchers.  
 Shares in the service unit, Edenred, will trade at a price-
to-earnings ratio of about 20, according to the average of five
analyst estimates, putting them near the top of the  peer group. 
The hotels business will be valued at about 9 times estimated
 earnings  before interest taxes, depreciation and amortization
for this year, according to the survey, lower than the average.  
 “The services business is a cash machine and its growth
potential, especially in emerging markets, is vast,” said
 Frederic Plisson , who helps manage almost 3.5 billion euros
($4.3 billion) at Financiere de L’Echiquier in Paris. “We
didn’t look at it before because it was very difficult to get a
good understanding of its performance as part of a hotel
group,” he said, adding that he may buy the stock.  
 Accor  shareholders  yesterday approved the split of the
services unit, which will be listed separately in Paris from
July 2. Accor says its businesses will be worth more as single
entities than they are combined. Edenred aims for annual growth
of as much as 14 percent in the number of tickets it issues and
stands to benefit as governments seek to protect purchasing
power of voters by offering tax breaks on vouchers for goods and
services, said AlphaValue analyst  Cecile Aboulian .  
 A spokeswoman for Accor declined to comment.  
 Accor Hospitality  
 Accor  shares  have risen about 2 percent since Dec. 15 when
the company’s board approved the demerger, giving the company a
market value of 8.9 billion euros. That’s less than gains of 24
percent for InterContinental Hotels Group Plc, 17 percent for
 Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide  and 12 percent for Marriott
International Inc. over the same period.  
 Edenred shares may trade at 13 euros to 14 euros each,
according to estimates provided by three analysts. A price-
earnings ratio of 20 would compare with nearest counterparts
 Mastercard Inc.,  the world’s No. 2 payments network, at 17.7,
 Compass Group Plc , the world’s largest catering company, at
16.4, and the No. 2 catering company  Sodexo SA , at 18.1.  
 For Accor Hospitality, a multiple of 9 times estimated
Ebitda would compare with 11.5 for  InterContinental Hotels , 14.8
for Starwood and 15 for  Marriott.   
 The hotelier’s shares may trade at a discount because Accor
has a higher proportion of owned and leased hotels than rivals.
InterContinental owns fewer than 20 hotels out of a total of
more than 4,400 and operates the remainder mostly under
franchise or management agreements. Accor aims to add as many as
40,000 new rooms annually by 2015, of which 80 percent will be
under management and franchise contracts, up from 60 percent.  
 Debt Reduction  
 Accor’s financial risk profile is “weighed down” by fixed
operating leases valued at 4 billion euros, according to
Standard & Poor’s.  
 Accor Hospitality shares will probably trade at 27 to 30
euros, according to three analysts’ estimates. Plisson said he
wouldn’t buy stock in the owner of the Motel 6 and Sofitel
brands because the tourism industry is “too volatile.”  
 To achieve a higher market value, Accor must deliver on its
targets to reduce  debt  and sell assets, said  Rod Manalo , an
analyst on Jefferies’ European Event Driven team in London. That
won’t happen “automatically” and any delay to disposals is
likely to hurt the confidence of shareholders, he said.  
 The French company has said it  aims  to dispose of 450
hotels by 2013 to reduce debt by 2 billion euros after selling
841 properties between 2005 and 2009, cutting debt by more than
4 billion euros. It also plans to cut borrowings by selling its
49 percent stake in casino business Groupe Lucien Barriere SA.  
 One option for the Lucien Barriere stake may be an initial
public offering this year, Chief Executive Officer  Gilles Pelisson  said at a shareholders meeting yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Armorel Kenna  in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        