-- Adidas Aims to Keep Golf Leadership With Radar Swing Analysis
-- Holger Elfes
-- 2010-06-29T09:31:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/adidas-aims-to-keep-leadership-in-golf-market-with-radar-analysis-of-swing.html

          
          
             Adidas AG , the maker of TaylorMade
golf clubs, said it plans to maintain its newfound position as
the sport’s biggest supplier with the help of computer images
and radar systems that analyze players’ swings.  
 With golf  revenue  of 860 million euros ($1.05 billion) in
the year through March, Adidas achieved global leadership of the
$7.5 billion market,  Mark King , head of the company’s golf
business, said in an interview late yesterday.  
 To build on its No. 1 position, TaylorMade plans to open
centers that allow players to purchase customized clubs after
having their swing analyzed with highspeed cameras. The first
one opened near Adidas headquarters in Herzogenaurach, Germany,
last year and a second will follow in Wentworth, southern
England, in September. Adidas also aims to expand its Ashworth
apparel brand and seek  acquisitions,  King said.  
 “Customers respond to our innovativeness, which helped us
to become the global market leader in golf,” King said after
playing in a tournament along with Adidas Chief Executive
Officer  Herbert Hainer  and Spanish golfer  Sergio Garcia .  
 Adidas said its golf sales overtook  Fortune Brands Inc. 
after the maker of Titleist balls sold its Cobra unit in April.
First-quarter golf revenue rose 16 percent excluding currency
swings to 223 million euros, the German company said.  
 At the Herzogenaurach golf center, six highspeed cameras
follow a player’s movements to create a three-dimensional
computer-animated swing image. In a second step, a Doppler-radar
supported tool follows the golf ball’s flight and reports launch
angle, spin rate and initial shot velocity.  
 Customized Clubs  
 “After some 120 shots the computer proposes a perfectly
customized club,” said Ryan Lauder, TaylorMade marketing chief
for the Europe, Middle East and Africa region. Technicians then
build a customized set of clubs for the customer within two
hours, choosing from 3,000 club shafts and 2,000 heads.  
 There is currently a six-week waiting list for the
analysis, which costs 250 euros, Lauder said. The first center
will become profitable within the next three years, he said.  
 “The major trend in golf is customization, that’s what
it’s all about,” King said. About 8 percent of Adidas’s  revenue 
is derived from the sport.  
 Adidas says it outfits more players than any rival on the
world’s top seven professional tours, including the PGA Tour.  
 “There is an evident relation between the number of
outfitted golf professionals and the companies’ sales,” said
 Peter Steiner , an amateur player and analyst at BHF Bank in
Frankfurt. He has a “reduce”  rating  on Adidas.  
 Nike, Callaway  
 Nike Inc.’s  golf revenue for the fiscal year ended May 31
was $638 million, a 2 percent decline from the previous year.
Callaway Golf Co., the maker of Big Bertha clubs, reported a 15
percent decline in 2009 revenue to $951 million.  
 Adidas plans to boost sales of its Ashworth apparel brand,
which was acquired in 2008, to as much as $250 million from
about $60 million within the next six years, King said.  
 “We have to break traditions in golf, we have to make the
sport cooler, we have to make our brand cool,” he said.  
 TaylorMade’s revenue will be little changed this year, King
said, reiterating an earlier forecast. The unit is considering
acquisitions, without having specific plans, and is targeting 
competitors who are strong in the women’s, seniors’ and lifestyle
areas, according to King.  
 “The golf market is a very fragmented one where we may see
more acquisitions in the future,” BHF Bank’s Steiner said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Holger Elfes  in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Mark King, head of the Adidas AG golf business. Photographer: Graham Barclay/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
