-- Afghan Troops Less Capable Than Evaluations Showed, Audit Finds
-- Tony Capaccio
-- 2010-06-29T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/afghanistan-troops-less-capable-than-evalations-showed-u-s-auditors-find.html

          
          
             Afghanistan’s army and police are
less capable than U.S. and NATO commanders have believed because
the system for evaluating them is flawed, according to a
Pentagon audit.  
 The combat capabilities of many “top-rated units” have
been “overstated,” and these units haven’t shown they can
operate independently in the field, said the audit report by
Arnold Fields, the special inspector general for Afghanistan
reconstruction.  
 The rating system since its adoption in 2005 hasn’t
“provided consistent and reliable measures of progress,” the
audit said. The system was replaced in April, it said.  
 The U.S. has spent $27 billion since 2002 for training
Afghan security forces, but “what I have read in this report
does not reflect $27 billion worth of investment by the American
taxpayer,” Fields told reporters yesterday.  
 President  Barack Obama ’s strategy in Afghanistan is
connected to the readiness of Afghanistan’s forces.  
 The U.S. and 45 allies have 142,000 troops in Afghanistan.
Obama says he intends to begin a drawdown in July 2011 and that
enough Afghan forces by then will be capable enough to begin
taking control of their nation’s security.  
 The goal is increasing the Afghan army and police, which
together now number more than 195,000 people, to 243,000 by
December and to 305,600 by October 2011.  
 The audit found “systemic deficiencies” in the Afghan
forces, including drug abuse, illiteracy, bribes and extortion
that have “undermined progress toward developing” units
capable of operating independently.  
 The system for measuring the capability of Afghanistan’s
forces was developed by the U.S. and the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization and put in place in 2005.  
 Showing Up  
 The ratings, which were given by U.S. and NATO trainers,
put too much emphasis on quantitative factors, such as the
number of troops authorized for a unit, not how many of them
actually show up in the field on a sustained basis. The auditors
also found that trainers weren’t asked their own opinions on the
troops’ readiness.  
 Fields’ auditors analyzed the ratings of 51 battalions that
received the highest ratings and discovered that 20 of them,
once in the field, “regressed” to a lower level of readiness.  
 The new audit’s findings are similar to an assessment
released in October by the Pentagon  inspector general  that
concluded the U.S. faces “major” hurdles in increasing the
size of Afghanistan’s police and army, including a
“significant” challenge in improving the army’s ability to
move supplies and maintain equipment.  
 Senate Hearing  
 The question of Afghan troop readiness will be considered
during the Senate Armed Services Committee’s hearing today on
the nomination of General  David Petraeus  to take over combat
operations in Afghanistan.  
 “Assessing the capability of Afghan forces is vital to
success in Afghanistan, because our number one mission is
preparing those forces to take responsibility for their nation’s
security,” committee Chairman  Carl Levin  said in a statement.
The Michigan Democrat said he wants to give the new capability
rating system time to see if it provides a better assessment.  
 The Taliban resurgence there has increased deaths of U.S.
and allied soldiers to the fastest pace in the war, now nine
years old and the longest in U.S. history.  
 Afghan Readiness  
 Levin told reporters yesterday that he intends to ask
Petraeus about the readiness of Afghan forces to take more of
the lead in the possibly decisive offensive to push the Taliban
out of their heartland of Kandahar Province in southern
Afghanistan.  
 Petraeus, who commands U.S. forces in the Middle East and
central Afghanistan, will replace General  Stanley McChrystal ,
who was dismissed by Obama for remarks disparaging
administration officials that were published last week in
Rolling Stone magazine.  
 Field said the report is a cautionary note about the status
of the Afghan security force Petraeus is about to inherit.  
 “This is a major piece of determining where we stand with
respect to reconstruction, particularly when it relates to the
security forces,” Fields said.  
 Lead auditor Emily Rachman, who spent months in Afghanistan
compiling the audit, told reporters that “anyone making
decisions about the level of security force capabilities and our
strategies needs a reliable, accurate system, and we don’t feel
that they have had that to date.”  
 There were many “long-standing concerns” about the
existing rating system “but actions were not taken until we
completed our work,” Rachman said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     President Obama says he intends to begin a drawdown in July 2011 and that enough Afghan forces by then will be capable enough to begin taking control of their nation’s security.  Photographer: Chris Kleponis/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
