-- After Ousting Roddick in Upset, Taiwan's Lu Faces Next Wimbledon Challenge
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-06-29T23:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/after-ousting-roddick-in-upset-taiwan-s-lu-faces-next-wimbledon-challenge.html

          
          
             After causing the biggest upset
in the men’s draw at Wimbledon this year by beating three-
time finalist  Andy Roddick  in the fourth round,  Yen-Hsun Lu 
has another big challenge today in the quarterfinals.  
 The 82nd-ranked player from Taiwan will face former
training partner  Novak Djokovic . Lu’s longtime coach and
manager, Dirk Hordorff, believes he can beat the third-
seeded Serbian.  
 “It is not going to be easy, and Novak is the
favorite, but he’s able to cause another upset,” Hordorff,
a German who has worked with Lu since 2003, said in an
interview.  
 “He showed a great performance against Roddick,”
said Hordorff, captain of the Taiwan Davis Cup team, who
also manages former Australian Open finalist  Rainer Schuettler  of Germany. “If you can beat Roddick here at
Wimbledon, then you can win any match.”  
 Lu’s five-set victory over the fifth-seeded American
was his first against a top-10 player since he upset Briton
 Andy Murray  in the first round of the 2008 Beijing
Olympics.  
 “He’s stronger mentally now than he was two years ago
when he beat Murray,” Hordorff said.  
 Lu, who lost in the first round in his previous four
visits to Wimbledon, is the first Asian man in a Grand Slam
quarterfinal in 15 years.  
 Venus Williams  Upset  
 He isn’t the only player with a big upset win at this
year’s tournament at the All England Club. Yesterday, five-
time champion Venus Williams of the U.S. lost in the
women’s quarterfinals to Tsvetana Pironkova, a Bulgarian
who never had been past the second round in any of tennis’
four majors.  
 Defending champion  Serena Williams  advanced in
straight sets against China’s Li Na. Joining her in the
semifinals were  Petra Kvitova  of the Czech Republic and
Russia’s  Vera Zvonareva , who defeated reigning U.S. Open
champion  Kim Clijsters  of Belgium.  
 Lu and former Australian Open champion Djokovic
trained together during the offseason in 2003 in the
Austrian ski resort of St. Anton while being managed by
Hordorff.  
 The winner of their match will play the winner of the
quarterfinal between six-time champion  Roger Federer  of
Switzerland and  Tomas Berdych  of the Czech Republic.
Federer is one title shy of tying  Pete Sampras ’s Open-era
record of seven Wimbledon men’s singles trophies.  
 Nadal-Soderling Rematch  
 In the bottom half of the men’s draw, 2008 champion
 Rafael Nadal  of Spain plays  Robin Soderling  for a place in
the last four. Nadal beat the Swede in straight sets to win
his fifth French Open title earlier this month. Murray, the
only men’s player who has yet to drop a set in this year’s
tournament, continues his bid for his first Grand Slam
title against Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of France.  
 Lu’s coach said the Taiwanese player twice has won
practice matches against Federer, who won a record-breaking
15th Grand Slam title when he beat Roddick in a five-set
final at Wimbledon last year.  
 Lu was ranked outside the top 100 on the ATP World
Tour in 2003 when Hordorff invited Schuettler and Lu to the
Masters Cup in Houston. During the season-ending
tournament, Federer’s coach called Hordorff to ask if
Schuettler wanted to practice with the Swiss.  
 “Rainer was not available, so instead Roger practiced
with Lu,” Hordorff said. The two hit for one hour, and
then played a practice match. Lu won. Federer asked to
practice with Lu again the next day, and again he lost,
Hordorff said.  
 Federer’s Only Losses  
 “That was the only time Roger lost in Houston,
because he ended up winning the tournament,” the German
said.  
 Lu, who lost to Federer in straight sets in the first
round of Wimbledon last year in their only official career
meeting, said his only regret is not having his father by
his side.  
 “I’m really upset because my father’s already passed
away,” said Lu, whose father died in 2000. “I’m really
proud of myself to share this victory with him in the
sky.”  
 Lu said he might have become a chicken catcher like
his father, Hui-Yen, if the working conditions were not so
tough.  
 “I tried few times,” Lu said. “But I don’t really
like it because it smells really bad. But I know it’s very
tough work. They’re always working from 1 to 6 in the
morning, very early. That time the chicken cannot run away
because they cannot see.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Taiwan's Yen-Hsun Lu celebrates  
                       
                         
                           Adrian Dennis/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Yen-Hsun Lu of Taiwan celebrates after beating Andy Roddick of the U. S. during the Wimbledon Tennis Championships in southwest London. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Yen-Hsun Lu of Taiwan celebrates after beating Andy Roddick of the U. S. during the Wimbledon Tennis Championships in southwest London. Photographer: Adrian Dennis/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Yen-Hsun Lu of Taiwan celebrates after beating Andy Roddick of the U.S. during the Wimbledon Tennis Championships in southwest London. Photographer: Adrian Dennis/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Roddick serves during the match  
                       
                         
                           Clive Brunskill/Getty Images 
                         
                         Andy Roddick of the U.S. serves against Yen-Hsun Lu of Taipei at Wimbledon Tennis Championships in southwest London. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Andy Roddick of the U.S. serves against Yen-Hsun Lu of Taipei at Wimbledon Tennis Championships in southwest London. Photographer: Clive Brunskill/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
