-- Thailand May Lose Status as World's Top Rice Exporter by 2015, Group Says
-- Van Nguyen
-- 2010-06-29T02:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/thailand-may-lose-status-as-world-s-top-rice-exporter-by-2015-group-says.html

          
          
             Thailand may lose its status as the
world’s top rice exporter to Vietnam by 2015 as higher costs and
a weaker Vietnamese currency eroded its price competitiveness,
the Thai industry association for shipments said.  
 Shipments may drop to 8 million tons this year, Chookiat
Ophaswongse, an adviser and former president of the Thai Rice
Exporters Association said in an interview yesterday. Exports
were 8.6 million metric tons last year, compared with Vietnam’s
6 million tons, according to the  U.S. Foreign Agricultural
Service .  
 “We have to admit that maybe in the next five to six years,
we probably won’t be the largest exporter of rice,” Chookiat
said while attending a conference in Ho Chi Minh City. “We
cannot compete with Vietnam anymore.”  
 Thailand’s loss of market share in its $5.05 billion rice
industry, according to the Commerce Ministry, deals a further
blow to its economy after political turmoil this year hurt
tourism. Thai politics have contributed to driving up costs via
guarantees of minimum prices for farmers, designed to win the
support of rural areas, Chookiat said.  
 Thailand’s ability to export par-boiled rice, which Vietnam
doesn’t currently ship, will enable it to maintain its advantage
for the time being, Chookiat said. “On a white-rice basis,
we’re already dead,” he said.  
 Thailand bypassed the U.S. as the world’s biggest rice
exporter in 1980, based on figures posted on the Web site of the
 International Rice Research Institute . Vietnamese exports, which
at the time were negligible, passed 1 million tons in 1988,
after the nation’s ruling Communist Party introduced market-
oriented policies to encourage farmers.  
 Price Gap  
 The average gap between the price of comparable varieties
of Vietnamese and Thai rice has widened. Thailand’s 5 percent
broken-grain variety was an average of $12 per ton more
expensive than Vietnam’s in 2007, according to  figures  from the
Food & Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.  
 Thailand’s 5 percent broken-grain was $68 more expensive
than Vietnam’s in 2008, and in 2009 the gap widened to $123,
according to figures from the FAO’s latest Rice Market Monitor.  
 “Our cost structure is much higher,” said Chookiat,
referring to labor, land and logistics costs.  
 A weaker currency has also contributed to Vietnam taking
market share away from Thailand over the past two years, Rut
Subniran, managing director of rice exporters Herba Bangkok S.L.,
said yesterday at the conference.  
 Vietnam devalued the dong at the end of 2008, in November
2009, and in February of this year, leaving the currency trading
today at 19,015 per dollar, about 11 percent weaker than two
years ago. Over the same period the Thai baht has strengthened
from 33.53 per dollar to 32.38 now.  
 “Look at transportation,” said Rut. “In Vietnam they use
rivers, where in Thailand we use trucks, which need gasoline.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Folkmanis  in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net ;
 Van Nguyen  in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 vnguyen23@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        