-- Thailand Raises Growth Forecast as Rising Exports Counter Political Unrest
-- Suttinee Yuvejwattana
-- 2010-06-29T05:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/thailand-raises-growth-forecast-as-rising-exports-counter-political-unrest.html

          
          
             Thailand’s Finance Ministry raised
its 2010  economic growth  forecast for the second time in three
months as soaring exports overshadowed the impact from the
nation’s recent deadly political unrest.  
 Gross domestic product may expand 5 percent to 6 percent in
2010, with a mid-point forecast of 5.5 percent,  Ekniti Nitithanprapas , the ministry’s spokesman, said at a news
conference in Bangkok today. The ministry in March raised the
estimate to as much as 5 percent from a December projection of
as much as 4 percent.  
 Southeast Asia’s largest economy after Indonesia expanded
12 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier as exports
rebounded from last year’s global slump. Central bank Governor
 Tarisa Watanagase , who has refrained from raising borrowing
costs this year as anti-government protests threatened growth,
said last week there is less need for “abnormally low”
interest rates as the economy has improved.  
 “The Bank of Thailand is likely to normalize the benchmark
rate in the fourth quarter of this year, but not shift to a
tightening,” said  Usara Wilaipich , an economist at Standard
Chartered Plc in Bangkok. Domestic demand and export growth may
slow in the second half, as cooling economies in China and
Europe will probably hurt Thai exports, she said.  
 Standard Chartered  expects Thailand’s economy to expand 2.8
percent this year. In contrast, the finance ministry said its
estimate is a “conservative” one that already assumes export
growth may slow in the second half and takes into account the
impact from the recent political unrest.  
 Export Forecast  
 Economic growth in the second quarter may slow to 5.6
percent, the finance ministry said today. The government raised
its 2010 export growth forecast to 22.5 percent from the 18
percent predicted in March.  
 “We are still concerned about the impact of the debt
crisis in Europe and the sustainability of the global
recovery,” Ekniti said. “We are lucky that the export growth
remained high while we have domestic problems, but we still need
to reduce our reliance on exports in the long term.”  
 Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said June 18 Thailand’s
$272 billion economy may expand 6 percent this year, the most
since 2004, boosted by overseas orders and private spending. The
country’s  exports  jumped 42.1 percent in May, the biggest gain
in almost two years.  
 Political Violence  
 Rising shipments are helping support growth after the
protests in April and May led to the country’s worst political
violence in almost two decades, leaving 89 people dead and
damaging buildings including the nation’s biggest shopping mall
owned by  Central Pattana Pcl .  
 “Exports are the key driver for our economy this year, in
line with the global economic rebound,” Ekniti said. Overseas
sales are helping “reduce the impact from lower tourist
arrivals and weak local consumption caused by the political
unrest.”  
 The  Bank of Thailand  said this month the impact of unrest
was limited and the economic momentum should continue. Policy
makers on June 2 kept its  benchmark interest rate  at 1.25
percent, the lowest level since July 2004. The next monetary
policy meeting is on July 14.  
 The central bank may raise the interest rate by a quarter
of a percentage point to 1.5 percent in the fourth quarter,
Ekniti said. “If economic growth gains more momentum, the key
rate may be raised again,” he said.  
 Inflation  may average 3.5 percent this year, with core
inflation forecast at 1.3 percent, as “inflation pressure
remains benign,” Ekniti said. The baht may trade in a range of
31.5 to 33.5 per dollar this year, the ministry predicts.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        