-- French Judge May Decide on Air New Zealand Perpignan Crash, Stuff Says
-- Tracy Withers
-- 2010-06-29T04:59:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/air-new-zealand-says-french-experts-presented-perpignan-accident-report.html

          
          
             A French judge investigating the
fatal crash of an  Air New Zealand Ltd.  aircraft in the
Mediterranean Sea in November 2008 may decide whether to bring
criminal charges later today, the stuff.co.nz website reported,
without saying where it got the information.  
 The airline can’t confirm the stuff.co.nz report, Mark
Street, spokesman for the Auckland-based carrier said by
telephone. Air New Zealand Chief Executive Officer  Rob Fyfe 
yesterday attended a hearing in Perpignan, France, at which
court-appointed experts presented their report on the accident,
which left all 7 people on board dead, the carrier said in an e-
mailed statement today.  
 “The report, which is confidential to parties to the
proceeding, will be considered by the judge as he decides on the
next steps required to complete his investigation,” the airline
said in the statement.  
 The Airbus SAS A320 plane crashed into the Mediterranean
Sea off the French coast during a test flight prior to it being
returned to Air New Zealand after a two-year lease to XL Airways
Germany. Four Air New Zealand personnel, two XL Airways pilots
and an official from New Zealand’s Civil Aviation Authority were
killed.  
 The aircraft had been conducting a low-speed check during
its approach to Perpignan when the crew lost control, French
 investigators  said in a preliminary report in February 2009. The
report made no conclusions about the cause of the crash. The
Bureau d’Enquetes et d’Analyses hasn’t released its final report.  
 The French judicial investigation runs separately to the
BEA accident investigation, and is overseen by a judge who may
or may not decide to prosecute, Street of Air New Zealand said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        