-- Air Arabia, Arabtec Holding, Boubyan, Saudi Telecom: Gulf Equity Preview
-- Zahra Hankir
-- 2010-06-29T05:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/air-arabia-arabtec-holding-boubyan-saudi-telecom-gulf-equity-preview.html

          
          
             The following companies may rise or
fall in Gulf Arab markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses and
prices are from the last close.  
 Dubai’s  DFM General Index  dropped 1.2 percent to the lowest
level since June 17. Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index  and
Qatar’s  QE Index  declined 0.3 percent. The Kuwait  SE Price Index 
retreated 0.2 percent, while Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index  and
Bahrain’s  gauge  increased 0.1 percent.  
 Air Arabia  (AIRARABI UH): The United Arab Emirates’ biggest
low-cost carrier will start flights from Alexandria to Beirut on
July 1 and will service the Lebanese capital four times a week.
The shares dropped 0.5 percent to 84.8 fils.  
 Arabtec Holding PJSC  (ARTC UH): Chief Executive Officer
 Riad Kamal  said the company expects to receive a payment from
state-owned developer Nakheel PJSC this week or next. Arabtec
doesn’t need to raise large amount of new capital and is looking
at projects in Turkmenistan, Azerbaijan and Angola, he said. The
shares declined 2.2 percent to 1.82 dirhams.  
 Boubyan Petrochemicals Co.  (BPCC KK): The Kuwaiti chemical
producer said full-year profit rose 5.4 percent to 21.4 million
dinars ($73.8 million), without giving a reason. The shares slid
1 percent to 495 fils when they last traded on June 27.  
 Saudi Telecom Co.  (STC AB): The Arab world’s largest phone
company may buy a 10 percent to 15 percent stake in the venture
created after Reliance Infratel Ltd., a unit of India’s Reliance
Communications Ltd., and GTL Infrastructure Ltd. merged this
week, Business Standard reported, citing people it didn’t
identify. The shares were unchanged 38.4 riyals.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        