-- Takefuji Falls to Record Low as Investors Fret About Debt Payment Ability
-- Yusuke Miyazawa
-- 2010-06-29T07:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/takefuji-shares-tumble-to-lowest-since-1998-as-investors-fret-about-debt.html

          
          
             Takefuji Corp. , Japan’s third-
largest consumer lender, sank to a record low in Tokyo trading
after shareholders voiced concerns about the company’s ability
to repay debts at an annual meeting.  
 Takefuji shares fell 5.2 percent to 254 yen, the lowest
since the company’s listing on the Tokyo Stock Exchange in
December 1998. Managers led by Chief Executive Officer  Akira Kiyokawa  failed to adequately answer investors’ queries about
the company’s finances, said  shareholder  Yasumi Watanabe, 63,
who owns 30 shares in the company.  
 Kiyokawa, who sold assets to raise cash for a bond
redemption this month, must repay another $645 million of  bonds 
in April, 1.6 times Takefuji market value. He also needs to
contend with a new consumer lending law that caps interest rates
and limits how much clients can borrow.  
 “I am concerned that Takefuji may go bankrupt because it’s
struggling with fundraising for the coming debt redemption,”
Susumu Sato, 77, who owns 1.5 million yen ($16,800) of shares in
Takefuji, said in an interview after the meeting.  
 A Takefuji spokeswoman, who declined to be identified
citing company policy, said she had no comment. The company also
didn’t respond to requests for comment sent by e-mail.  
 Capping Interest Rates  
 Japan’s Supreme Court in January 2006 invalidated contracts
allowing companies to charge as much as 29 percent interest on
loans, triggering claims for refunds that forced Takefuji and
its rivals to book losses. Since June 18, consumer lenders
aren’t allowed to extend loans that exceed a third of a
borrower’s annual income and interest charges are capped at 20
percent.  
 “I am concerned about the future,” Watanabe said in an
interview. “To be honest, I can’t accept the executives’
answers today.”  
 Moody’s Investors Service in March cut Takefuji’s credit
rating to Caa2, the fourth-lowest non-investment grade, citing
uncertainty over its funding plans and borrowers’ claims for
reimbursements on overcharged interest.  
 “There is great uncertainty surrounding the assumptions on
which the future of our business depends,” Takefuji said in a
report sent to shareholders on June 9.  
 Takefuji had 60.4 billion yen of  cash  and cash-equivalent
assets as of March 31, down from 97.9 billion yen a year earlier,
regulatory filings show.  
 On June 11, an envelope containing a letter threatening
“retribution” and a bullet was delivered to the Tokyo home of
Takefuji Deputy President  Taketeru Takei , according to Tokyo
Metropolitan Police.  
 “I worry about many things on Takefuji, including its
ratings, fundraising and the industry’s rule changes,” Kazuya
Ikeda, 52, who owns 1,800 shares in Takefuji, said in an
interview. “The firm may not be able to revitalize unless it
merges with some other company. I will wait for the industry map
to change.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Takahiko Hyuga  in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
 Yusuke Miyazawa  in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        