-- Allen Stanford's Girlfriend Stoelker Sued by Receiver for Wages, Payments
-- Laurel Brubaker Calkins
-- 2010-06-29T23:24:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/allen-stanford-s-girlfriend-stoelker-sued-by-receiver-for-wages-payments.html

          
          
             R. Allen Stanford ’s girlfriend,
Andrea M. Stoelker, was sued by the indicted financier’s court-
appointed receiver for $560,000 that she received in wages and
other payments from the Stanford Financial Group of companies.  
 Stoelker’s services, including her work on Stanford’s
Caribbean cricket subsidiary, were of no value to creditors,
said  Kevin Sadler , lead attorney for Stanford receiver  Ralph Janvey , in papers filed today in federal court in Dallas.  
 “Any services performed by Stoelker were designed to
further the operations of the Ponzi scheme and may well have
assisted Stanford in attracting new victim investors,’’ Sadler
said in the filing.  
 Stoelker, who is identified by Sadler as Stanford’s
“girlfriend and/or fiancée,’’ said in her own court filings
that she often accompanied Stanford on international business
trips and Las Vegas vacations. She also sought, and was denied,
the return of her personal belongings taken from Stanford’s
yacht when his assets were frozen by court order and turned over
to Janvey in February 2009.  
 Stanford is in federal prison in Houston awaiting a January
trial on charges that he swindled investors of more than
$7 billion through allegedly bogus certificates of deposit
issued by Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd.  
 Mansions, Jets, Yachts  
 Stanford faces parallel civil fraud allegations from the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which claims he skimmed
more than $1 billion in investor funds to finance a lavish
lifestyle that included multiple mansions, a fleet of jets, two
yachts and a private island. Stanford has denied wrongdoing.  
 Stoelker was “unjustly enriched’’ while serving as
president of both Stanford Financial Group Global Management LLC
and Stanford 20/20, according to the lawsuit. The 20/20
organization promoted a faster version of cricket, which the
financier hoped would attract a wider following to the sport.
Stoelker received at least $140,000 from the cricket unit and
another $180,000 from Stanford personally, Janvey claims.  
 Stoelker previously attended many of Stanford’s court
appearances. She was refused court permission to visit Stanford
in prison.  
 The case is Janvey v. Stoelker, 3:10-cv-01272, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  
 Stanford’s criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09cv298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  
          
          


  


        