-- Aluminum Exchange-Traded Fund to Start Next Month, Rusal's Deripaska Says
-- Aya Takada
-- 2010-06-29T10:53:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/aluminum-exchange-traded-fund-to-start-next-month-rusal-s-deripaska-says.html

          
          
             United Co. Rusal , the world’s
largest aluminum producer, said an exchange-traded fund for
the metal is set to start as early as next month, offering
support after lower prices forced smelters globally to shut.  
 Rusal and other producers are in talks to supply the
metal for the fund, which may buy as much as 1 million metric
tons of aluminum in a year, Chief Executive Officer  Oleg Deripaska  told reporters in Tokyo today, without identifying
which financial institution will introduce the product.  
 Aluminum prices in London have declined 11 percent this
year amid concerns China’s measures to curb its property market
will curtail demand and as the European debt crisis roiled
markets. An exchange-traded fund may help support metal prices
as physical demand stayed strong, Deripaska said.  
 “You will see the first ETF launch next month, as far
as I understand,” Deripaska said. “It’s a new instrument to
hedge” against risks stemming from currency fluctuations and
energy prices, he said.  
 Aluminum for three-month delivery on the London Metal
Exchange dropped 1.9 percent to $1,990 a metric ton at 7:02 p.m.
Tokyo time. Prices closed at $1,867.50 a ton on June 7, the
lowest level in eight months. The price reached an 18-month
high on April 16.  
 Ready for Investors  
 Investors buy exchange-traded funds as a way to gain from
price increases in the underlying commodity. At least three
aluminum ETFs are “technically” ready to be offered to
investors, Deripaska said in April.  
 Prices of the metal will rise to $2,400 a ton by the end of
the year as physical demand remains healthy, he said today.
Rusal, based in Moscow, won’t change its production target this
year, he said.  
 “Improvement in the transportation sector for the last
six months creates quite a good demand,” Deripaska said.  
 The transportation industry is the biggest user of aluminum,
the world’s second-most used metal. Carlos Ghosn, chief
executive officer of Renault SA and Nissan Motor Corp., expects
car production to gain about 11 percent this year.  
 Deripaska on June 9 said a slump in the metal price may
prompt producers to shut smelters, leading to a supply shortfall.
Between 2 million and 3 million metric tons of capacity may be
halted in the second and third quarters, with about 70 percent
of the smelters globally unprofitable at current prices, he said.  
 Prices in China, the largest consumer of the metal, have
dropped below the cost of production, Aluminum Corp. of China
Ltd. said June 8.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        