-- Anti-BP Activists Disrupt Tate Party, Protest Oil Sponsorship
-- Farah Nayeri
-- 2010-06-29T02:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/anti-bp-activists-disrupt-tate-party-protest-oil-sponsorship.html

          
          
             Activists opposing oil company  BP
Plc  burst into a party at London’s  Tate Britain  last night,
spilling cans of an oil-like liquid inside and outside the
gallery to protest BP’s 20-year sponsorship.  
 Black-clad protesters with veils over their heads
splattered the party entrance with cans of treacle bearing the
BP logo, then sprinkled bird feathers over the slick. Another
group smuggled cans inside, under their skirts, and emptied them
in Tate Britain’s columned main hall.  
 Meanwhile, about a dozen artists wearing black separately
picketed the party. “What do we want? Liberate Tate!” they
hollered. “When do we want it? Now!”  
 BP has shed  half  of its market value after causing the
U.S.’s  worst-ever oil spill  in April. The company is a
longstanding sponsor of Tate Britain, the British Museum, the
Royal Opera House and the National Portrait Gallery. BP has said
it will maintain those London sponsorships, which together cost
it more than 1 million pounds ($1.5 million) a year.  
 The April 20 explosion at BP’s Deepwater Horizon rig in the
Gulf of Mexico has led environmentalists and activists to step
up their actions and target London institutions backed by BP.  
 This year’s summer party at Tate Britain celebrates two
decades of BP sponsorship: The energy company has helped fund
the presentation of the Millbank gallery’s permanent collection,
which is regularly rehung.  
 Treacled Feathers  
 At last night’s party, while hundreds of guests sipped
Pimm’s and nibbled cheese puffs, Tate Director  Nick Serota 
watched staff neatly mop up the tarred floor and leave no trace
of the earlier action. Outside, cleaners faced a tougher task,
as they scrubbed well into the night and vacuumed bird feathers
stuck to the treacle.  
 Serota said in an interview that the protesters had every
right to express their views, which in some cases were long held,
though “some of them have only thought about it in the last
eight weeks, and they didn’t protest when we took the money 20
years ago.”  
 “It’s a very difficult decision for an institution to
make,” he said, referring to offers of corporate funding.
“There’s no money that is completely pure.”  
 Among the celebrity guests was  Nick Rhodes  of the U.K. rock
group Duran Duran.  
 “I’d much rather the money be in the hands of the arts
than a petroleum company, I can tell you that,” Rhodes said.
“So anything they want to give, let’s take it.”  
 Also protesting outside Tate Britain tonight was  Platform ,
which fights for social and ecological justice. Platform got 171
people from the arts community to sign a letter in yesterday’s
Guardian asking Tate to stop linking the BP logo to its name.  
 ‘Licence to Spill’  
 London’s arts institutions “should sever their sponsorship
links with the oil industry in the way that sports and cultural
institutions did with the tobacco industry over a decade ago,”
said Platform campaigner Kevin Smith as he handed out leaflets
labeled “Licence to Spill.”  
 By accepting BP’s sponsorship, Tate “legitimizes” the
environmental damage done by the company, Smith said.  
 Earlier this month, BP agreed to establish a $20 billion
fund to pay damages to victims of the oil spill. Legislators
stepped up demands for more action as the number of claims for
compensation increased.  
 Big-Screen Opera  
 Since 2001, BP has backed the  Royal Opera House’s  big-
screen summer relays, which transmit live opera and ballet to
thousands of outdoor viewers nationwide. When the agreement was
first signed, BP paid a fee of 270,000 pounds a year for three
years. By 2005, the cost was 350,000 pounds per year, according
to the opera house’s head of development at the time.  
 At the  British Museum , BP is the longest-standing corporate
backer, committed since 1996 when it helped fund the Great Court
redevelopment. In 1999, BP gave money and its name to a lecture
theater. BP has backed shows such as “Mummy: The Inside Story”
(2003); “Hadrian: Empire and Conflict” (2008); and the current
“Fra Angelico to Leonardo: Italian Renaissance Drawings.”  
 At the  National Portrait Gallery , BP’s main focus is the BP
Portrait Award, now in its 21st year, and a sponsorship renewed
through 2012.  
 To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Television crews film after a protester left graffiti outside the Tate Britain, London, on June 28, 2010. Demonstrators called for the art gallery to end its 20-year relationship with sponsor BP Plc because the energy company caused the U.S.'s worst-ever oil spill in April. Photograph: Farah Nayeri/ Bloomberg News.  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
