-- Apple's Jobs Due to Attend Sun Valley Media Executive Retreat
-- Sarah Rabil
-- 2010-06-29T20:22:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/apple-s-jobs-due-to-attend-sun-valley-media-executive-retreat.html

          
          
             Apple Inc. Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Jobs  is due to attend the annual Allen & Co. media
conference in Sun Valley, Idaho, giving him a chance to court
executives he needs to add content to his company’s products.  
 Jobs is among executives who have said they will attend the
July 6-10 event, according to the guest list, obtained by
Bloomberg News.  
 Apple’s CEO is looking to offer magazines, newspapers,
books, television shows and films on the iPad tablet and expand
the iTunes store as the top website for digital content. Jobs
said at a conference this month that people are willing to pay
for content and encouraged media companies to price digital
offerings lower than physical products.  
 Jobs has returned to the public eye after disclosing a
hormone imbalance last year, taking a 5 1/2-month leave of
absence and receiving a liver transplant. In the five years
since Jobs was last known to have attended the conference, Apple
has introduced the iPhone, iPad tablet and Apple TV, which give
media companies new ways to sell and distribute songs, books,
video and other content.  
 Among the initiatives Apple is pursuing is a subscription
TV service and agreements that would let people store content on
servers and access it anywhere with a Web connection, the Wall
Street Journal has reported.  
 Media Networking  
 Sun Valley is often used by executives of media and
technology companies to network and discuss deals. Walt Disney
Co. used it to hatch its $19.5 billion acquisition of Capital
Cities/ABC Inc. Yahoo! Inc. co-founder  Jerry Yang  met former
Warner Bros. executive  Terry Semel  at an Allen & Co. conference
before tapping him as CEO in 2001.  
 Other expected attendees this year include News Corp. CEO
 Rupert Murdoch , Berkshire Hathaway Inc. CEO  Warren Buffett ,
Microsoft Corp. Chairman  Bill Gates , Disney CEO  Bob Iger , KKR &
Co.’s  Henry Kravis , Facebook Inc. CEO  Mark Zuckerberg  and Google
Inc. CEO  Eric Schmidt , according to the list. Jobs is the
largest shareholder in Disney, the world’s biggest media
company.  
 Apple declined to comment, said spokesman  Steve Dowling .
 Mandy Tavakol , executive director of the Allen & Co. conference,
said the company declined to comment.  
 Summer Camp  
 At the Sun Valley event, described as a “ summer camp ” for
media moguls by author  Ken Auletta , executives socialize and
give morning presentations on their businesses. Organizers also
offer yoga, barbecues, golf tee times, trap and skeet
tournaments, tennis competitions, cocktail receptions and family
relay races, according to the event’s agenda. The event is
closed to the press  
 Buffett didn’t respond to a request for comment sent to his
assistant,  Carrie Kizer , in an e-mail outside of normal business
hours in Omaha. Zenia Mucha, a Disney spokeswoman, and  Julie Henderson , and News Corp. spokeswoman, didn’t immediately return
calls seeking comment.  John Pinette , a spokesman for Gates,
declined to comment. A KKR representative also didn’t respond to
an after-hours request for comment. Google declined to comment.  
 Apple, based in Cupertino, California, fell $12.13, or 4.5
percent, to $256.17 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock
Market  trading . The stock has risen 22 percent this year.  
 Jobs previously attended the event in 2005 and 1999. In
April, Apple began selling the iPad, a tablet-style computer
that can be used to read books, watch movies, play games and
listen to music. The company sold 3 million units in the iPad’s
first 80 days on the market.  
 Google’s Schmidt and Microsoft’s Gates are among technology
company executives who have attended in the past.  
 The agenda and guest list for the conference aren’t made
public. While the press isn’t typically invited to watch the
closed-door events, reporters stay in Sun Valley to talk with
the attending executives.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Apple’s Jobs Due to Attend Sun Valley Retreat  
                       
                         
                           David Paul Morris/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Apple Inc. CEO Steve Jobs. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Apple Inc. CEO Steve Jobs. Photographer: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
