-- Aquino Takes Oath Vowing to Fix Economy Without Taxes
-- Clarissa Batino
-- 2010-06-30T06:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/aquino-takes-office-in-philippines-vowing-to-fix-economy-without-new-taxes.html

          
          
             Benigno Aquino , who rose from
political outsider to become Philippine president in less than a
year, vowed to fight tax corruption and help investors and the
jobless in a nation trailing its neighbors in economic growth
and international investment.  
 “We will boost collection and fight corruption in the tax
and customs bureaus” to fund education, health care and housing
programs, Aquino said in his inaugural speech in Manila today.
He pledged to implement stable economic policies and “level the
playing field. We will make our country attractive to investors.
This is the only way we can reduce unemployment.”  
 Philippine  growth  has lagged behind its Southeast Asian
neighbors as tax evasion and smuggling resulted in budget
deficits in 21 of the past 25 years. Investors including
Germany’s Fraport AG and Spain’s Union Fenosa SA have left the
country following contract disputes and regulatory reversals.
Switzerland-based Xstrata Plc’s $5.2 billion copper and gold
project is in limbo after a local government this month banned
open-pit mining.  
 “We are hopeful they will provide an enabling business
environment,” said ING Groep NV Country Manager Zondy Garcia.
“Once investors believe there’s a level playing field, and
processes are more transparent and efficient, where investors
could generate sufficient return, we will be back on the radar
screen of long-term investors.”  
 Wave of Nostalgia  
 Aquino, 50, is the son of former President  Corazon Aquino ,
who ousted  Ferdinand Marcos  in 1986. He wasn’t a candidate until
his mother died of cancer in August, triggering a wave of
nostalgia and a run for president. During the campaign, he was
criticized for his lack of experience and ability, having failed
to pass any bill in 12 years in Congress.  
 He beat his nearest rival, former President  Joseph Estrada ,
by 15.2 million votes to 9.49 million votes by campaigning on
the slogan: “If there’s no corruption, there’s no poverty.”
The Philippines ranks 139th out of 180 in  Transparency
International’s  corruption perception index, tied with Pakistan
and Bangladesh. Malaysia is 56th while Thailand is 84th.  
 The perception of corruption reaches the top. Estrada was
ousted in 2001 and convicted in 2007 of taking payoffs from
illegal gambling lords and receiving a bribe in return for
ordering a state-run pension fund to invest in a property
company. Pardoned by President  Gloria Arroyo , he sat one seat
away from Aquino in today’s inauguration.  
 Arroyo defeated three impeachment attempts resulting from
corruption and vote-rigging allegations, which she denied.
Aquino yesterday named a former Supreme Court chief justice to
investigate the allegations against Arroyo, now a congresswoman,
in preparation for possible charges when her presidential
immunity ends.  
 Foreign Investment  
 The Philippines received $1.5 billion in foreign direct
investment in 2008, against $9.8 billion for Thailand and $7.9
billion for Indonesia, Association of Southeast Asian Nation
 statistics  show.  
 Economic  expansion  averaged 3.7 percent a year during the
past 20 years, compared with Thailand’s 4.7 percent pace and 6
percent for Malaysia. The Philippines slumped from being Asia’s
No. 4 economy in the 1960s to 13th out of 17 Bloomberg tracks.
The World Bank estimates one in four people live on less than
$1.25 a day and a million  leave  to work abroad every year.  
 Aquino yesterday said he’ll examine “each and every item
of the budget” and reiterated he’ll chase tax cheats before
increasing levies.  Florencio Abad , his budget secretary, said
the government will implement austerity measures, while pushing
“dramatic” improvements in education and health.  
 Employment Program  
 Aquino today pledged to revive his mother’s “emergency
employment” infrastructure program, help farmers with
irrigation and technology and expand security forces.  
 Aquino’s spending plans may make it difficult to narrow the
budget deficit. The government this month raised the deficit
estimate to 297.5 billion pesos ($6.4 billion), close to last
year’s record, and recommended boosting the value-added tax to
15 percent from 12 percent to boost revenue by 94 billion pesos.  
 It raised this year’s growth forecast to as much as 6
percent after reporting first-quarter expansion of 7.3 percent,
helping the Philippine Stock Exchange Index gain 9.8 percent in
U.S. dollar terms, according to Bloomberg data. While the index
is the 13th best performer among the world’s 93 primary indexes,
it lagged behind Thailand and Indonesia.  
 The yield on the benchmark 7 percent bond due January 2016
yesterday fell 7 basis points, the most since May 11, the day
after Aquino’s election, to a record 6.68 percent. Local
financial markets closed for today’s inauguration.  
 Budget Balancing  
 Growth is more important than balancing the budget,
Aquino’s Finance Secretary  Cesar Purisima  said yesterday.
Purisima is returning to the finance department where he raised
the value-added tax to 12 percent in 2005. The budget deficit,
which averaged about 200 billion pesos from 2002 to 2004,
narrowed to 12.4 billion pesos by 2007.  
 Aquino named Purisima and Abad and most of the rest of his
Cabinet yesterday. The presidents of Manila Electric Co., Manila
Water Co., Maynilad Water Services Inc. and an executive of SM
Investments Corp. will head four economic departments.  
 “We will be a predictable and consistent place for
investment, a nation where everyone will say, ‘it all works,’”
Aquino said in his speech today.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joel Guinto  in Manila at 
 jguinto@bloomberg.net ;
 Francisco Alcuaz Jr . in Manila at 
 falcuaz@bloomberg.net ;
 Clarissa Batino  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        