-- Aquino's Team Plans `Austerity Measures' to Cut Philippine Budget Deficit
-- Joel Guinto
-- 2010-06-29T11:23:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/aquino-to-review-philippine-government-spending-may-cut-2010-deficit-goal.html

          
          
             Philippine President-elect  Benigno Aquino  will implement “austerity measures” and focus public
spending on helping the poor as he seeks to narrow the budget
deficit without raising taxes, his incoming officials said.  
 Aquino’s economic team, announced today, will review in two
weeks the growth and fiscal goals set by the previous
government, and may reduce the 2010  budget-shortfall target ,
Budget Secretary-designate  Florencio Abad  said in an interview
in Manila today. The administration may cut the deficit to about
2 percent of gross domestic product in three years, Finance
Secretary-designate  Cesar Purisima  told reporters.  
 The government will study “each and every item of the
budget,” Aquino, who takes office tomorrow, said at a briefing
in the capital. It will focus on improving tax collection before
seeking new or higher taxes, he said, adding that if additional
borrowing “has to be done, it will be done.”  
 Philippine  growth  has lagged behind its Southeast Asian
neighbors as a budget shortfall in all but four of the past 25
years curtailed the government’s ability to develop an economy
where the World Bank estimates one in every four people live on
less than $1.25 a day. Aquino ran for president on the slogan
“if there’s no corruption, there’s no poverty” and said tax
evaders were known and would be pursued.  
 “I have never seen a country tackle a structural fiscal-
deficit issue via tax-efficiency gains,”  Edwin Gutierrez , who
manages about $5 billion of emerging-market debt at Aberdeen
Asset Management Plc in London, said before the comments today
by Aquino’s team. “This never works.”  
 Deficit Target  
 President  Gloria Arroyo ’s economic team earlier this month
widened the 2010 budget shortfall ceiling to 297.2 billion pesos
($6.4 billion), close to last year’s record, and lifted the
growth target to a range of 5 percent to 6 percent.  
 The Philippines needs to cut the budget gap and increase
investment to boost  growth , Pacific Investment Management Co.
said June 25. The country’s low revenue and high level of debt
constrains its credit rating, Standard & Poor’s Associate
Director  Agost Benard  wrote in an e-mail today.  
 Gary Teves , Arroyo’s finance secretary, said last week the
new administration should consider a proposal to raise taxes,
including the value-added tax rate, to increase revenue by 94
billion pesos next year.  
 ‘No Point’  
 There’s “no point” raising taxes before leaks are
plugged, Aquino said during his presidential campaign.  
 Aquino “instructed me to implement zero budgeting,” Abad
said before the president-elect’s briefing today when the
members of the cabinet were announced. “You don’t increase the
budget, you look at the program and see if spending is aligned
with priorities.”  
 Abad, who turns 56 next month, served in the cabinets of
Arroyo and Aquino’s mother,  Corazon Aquino . He was president of
the Liberal Party, served with the president-elect in the House
of Representatives and was his campaign manager this year.  
 Purisima, 50, led Arroyo’s successful attempt to raise the
value-added tax to 12 percent in 2005, before he, Abad and other
officials quit the government and asked Arroyo to step down amid
allegations she rigged her 2004 election. The budget deficit,
which averaged about 200 billion pesos from 2002 to 2004,
narrowed to 12.4 billion pesos by 2007.  
 Philippine local-currency bonds climbed to a record high
after Aquino and his economic team pledged to narrow the budget
deficit, and the peso rose for a second day today. The country’s
financial markets and government offices will be shut tomorrow
for the presidential oath-taking, and will reopen July 1.  
 Targeted Spending  
 Growth is more important than balancing the budget,
Purisima said today. The new government isn’t ruling out an
overseas bond sale, he told reporters after the briefing.  
 Spending  will be targeted at “people left out in economic
growth,” Abad said. “We need a dramatic increase in spending
for the poor, like in education, health,” the incoming budget
chief said.  
 Aquino appointed  Kim Henares , 49, former deputy
commissioner of the tax bureau, as head of the agency, which is
responsible for more than 60 percent of government  revenue . The
president-elect named  Cayetano Paderanga  economic planning
secretary, a position he held under Corazon Aquino from 1990 to
1992.  
 Aquino designated  Manila Water Co.  President  Rene Almendras 
as energy secretary,  Manila Electric Co.  President  Jose de Jesus 
as transportation and communications secretary, Maynilad Water
Services Inc. President  Rogelio Singson  as public works and
highways secretary and  SM Investments Corp.  Executive Director
 Gregory Domingo  as trade secretary.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Clarissa Batino  in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
 Max Estayo  in Manila at   mestayo@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        