-- German Stocks Retreat on China Concerns; BASF, ThyssenKrupp Lead Decliners
-- Julie Cruz
-- 2010-06-29T16:35:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/arcandor-conergy-fresenius-medical-may-be-active-german-equity-preview.html

          
          
             German stocks  slumped the most in
almost a year as U.S. consumer confidence fell and a report
sparked concern that China’s economy is growing at a slower-
than-estimated pace.  
 BASF SE and ThyssenKrupp AG retreated at least 4 percent,
as a fall in all of the DAX’s 30 constituent stocks pushed the
gauge to its lowest level since June 8. RWE AG sank 3.2 percent
as Morgan Stanley advised selling shares of Germany’s second-
biggest utility.  
 The  DAX  slid 3.3 percent to 5,952.03, the biggest drop
since July 2, 2009. The global rally in equities that began in
March 2009 has fizzled amid signs that China, the biggest
emerging economy, may need to raise interest rates to tame
inflation. The broader HDAX Index sank 3.4 percent today.  
 “We’re becoming cautious” on equities, said  Neil Dwane , who
helps oversee about $80 billion as chief investment officer at
Allianz Global Investors’ RCM unit, in a Bloomberg Television
interview in London. “The market hasn’t priced in the arrival of
a double dip. Maybe investor confidence is a little too
optimistic and so we’re seeing this retrenchment in markets at
the moment.”  
 U.S. Confidence  
 Confidence among U.S. consumers declined in June more than
forecast as Americans became pessimistic about the outlook for
the labor market and the economy. The Conference Board’s
confidence index slumped to 52.9, figures from the New York-
based private research group showed today. The median forecast
called for a decline to 62.5. The gauge was lower than any of
the projections in a Bloomberg News survey of 71 economists.  
 In a separate report, the Conference Board revised down its
China leading economic index so that it only rose 0.3 percent in
April, less than the 1.7 percent gain that the board reported
June 15. China’s exports face “strong headwinds” in the second
half of the year from policy-tightening measures and the
European debt crisis, Citigroup Inc. said in a report.  
 Stocks in Germany, Europe’s largest economy that was
overtaken by China last year as the world’s biggest exporter,
have outperformed its European peers this year as UBS AG and
Deutsche Bank AG advised increasing holdings of shares more
geared to global growth. The DAX remains 6 percent below its
2010 high reached on April 26, compared with France’s CAC 40
Index and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index which are more than 10
percent below their highest levels this year.  
 BASF, ThyssenKrupp  
 BASF, the world’s largest chemicals company, declined 4.7
percent to 45.29 euros.  ThyssenKrupp , Germany’s biggest
steelmaker, dropped 4 percent to 20.63 euros, while Salzgitter
AG slid 3.7 percent to 49.45 euros. Copper, lead, nickel, tin,
and zinc fell on the London Metal Exchange.  
 Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s biggest bank, slumped 4.2
percent to 46 euros. Among European lenders, Deutsche Bank may
suffer the most from planned levies on banks, analysts at
Sanford C. Bernstein said. The bank’s earnings per share may be
cut by 4.9 percent in 2015, based on estimates for the levy in
the U.K., U.S., Germany, and the rest of the world,  Dirk Hoffmann-Becking  wrote in a note to clients today.  
 RWE  declined 3.2 percent to 53.32 euros as Morgan Stanley
downgraded its recommendation on the shares to “underweight“
from “equal weight.”  
 Software AG lost 2.8 percent to 84.33 euros as Germany’s
second-largest software maker was rated “sell“ in initiated
coverage at Evolution Securities.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        