-- Asian Dollar Bonds Look Cheap Against U.S., European Debt, Aberdeen Says
-- Shelley Smith
-- 2010-06-30T01:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/asian-dollar-bonds-look-cheap-versus-u-s-european-debt-aberdeen-says.html

          
          
             Asian bonds denominated in dollars
are cheap compared with similarly rated debt from U.S. and
European sovereign and corporate issuers, based on economic
differences, according to Aberdeen Asset Management.  
 The notes probably pay between 0.5 and 1 percentage point
more than yields on bonds in the U.S. and Europe with similar
risk ratings,  Donald Amstad , director at Aberdeen Asset
Management Asia Ltd. said at a briefing in Hong Kong yesterday.  
 Emerging markets are economically stronger than those of
developed markets, and Asia in particular seems a lower-risk
investment opportunity, Amstad said. About $637 million flowed
into emerging-market bond funds in the week ended June 23,
according to EPFR Global, which tracks capital flows.  
 “Look at the balance sheets of this region, look at the
fiscal situation, look at the current account situation, the
health of the banking system, the health of corporates and the
lack of leverage in the consumer sector,” Amstad said. “Asia
broadly ticks all the boxes. If you had all those boxes for
developed countries you’d put cross, cross, cross, cross.”  
 Aberdeen Asset Management Plc  oversees more than $243.1
billion of assets globally.  
 The difference between average yield premiums investors
demand to own Asian company dollar bonds instead of Treasuries
and spreads on U.S. corporate debt is more than triple the two-
year average before the global financial crisis, based on
indexes compiled by Barclays Capital and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 ‘Very Happy’  
 That shows Asian bonds are still cheap relative to their
U.S. peers. The gap between these spreads was at 0.92 percentage
points. That compares with an average of 0.26 percentage points
in the two years before the crisis, according to  Barclays’ U.S.
Credit Index  and JPMorgan’s  Asia Credit Index .  
 “We’re very happy being overweight credit in this part of
the world,” Amstad said. “There are a number of very good
opportunities.” Aberdeen currently favors shorter-dated
Indonesian government bonds in rupiah, and Korean inflation-
linked debt.  
 In the same briefing, Aberdeen warned global financial
markets risk “renewed turbulence” on structural deficits and
as public debt hampers growth. Rising asset prices, driven by
liquidity, could create instability, Aberdeen said.  
 “The emerging markets, and in particular Asia, remain
bright spots,” Amstad said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shelley Smith  in Hong Kong at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        