-- Asian Stocks Fall to Two-Week Low on Chinese Growth Concerns
-- Monami Yui
-- 2010-06-29T10:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/asian-stocks-gain-on-buybacks-china-taiwan-trade-prospects-hon-hai-rises.html

          
          
             Asian  stocks  fell, dragging down the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index by the most in three weeks, on concern
over the pace of China’s economic recovery.  
 China Minsheng Banking Corp.  and Angang Steel Co. sank at
least 4 percent in Shanghai and Shenzhen respectively after the
Conference Board corrected its April gauge for the outlook of
China’s economy to indicate slower growth and Citigroup Inc.
said the country’s exports face “strong headwinds.”  Inpex
Corp. , Japan’s biggest oil explorer, slumped 3.8 percent as
crude-oil prices retreated.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  lost 1.6 percent to 113.84 as
of 7:30 p.m. in Tokyo, the biggest slump since June 7. The gauge
has slumped 12 percent from its high this year on April 15 on
concern Europe’s debt crisis and Chinese steps to curb property
prices will hurt global growth. China’s  Shanghai Composite Index 
slumped 4.3 percent, the most since May 17, and Hong Kong’s Hang
Seng Index lost 2.3 percent.  
 “The slowdown in China’s growth is the result of its
measures to cool the economy,” said  Yoshihisa Okamoto , who
helps oversee about $34 billion at Mizuho Asset Management Co.
in Tokyo. “Investors’ concern may increase if China continues
to tighten its monetary policies.”  
 Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  sank 1.3 percent,
reversing an earlier gain of as much as 0.7 percent as the yen
strengthened against the dollar. Canon Inc., a maker of consumer
electronics that gets almost 80 percent of its sales outside
Japan, sank 2.7 percent.  
 South Korea’s Kospi dropped 1.4 percent, while Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index lost 0.9 percent.  
 Lower Valuations  
 Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  lost 1.3 percent.
The index fell 0.2 percent yesterday, dragging the gauge lower
for the fifth time in six days, as oil and metal prices dropped.  
 Concerns global growth will slow have helped drag the
average price of MSCI Asia Pacific Index down to about 14.1
times estimated profit, compared with 24 times a year earlier.  
 Government reports today showed that Japan’s industrial
production and household spending slipped in May and the
unemployment rate unexpectedly increased, in signs that the
recovery of the world’s second-largest economy may slow.  
 “The market is pausing to digest the implications of the
macro overhang of the last couple of weeks,” said  Jason Teh ,
who helps manage $3 billion at Investors Mutual Ltd. in Sydney.
“Markets are maybe realizing the growth trajectory may be
slower because there is still too much leverage in the system.”  
 ‘Calculation Error’  
 Minsheng Banking, China’s first privately owned bank,
dropped 4.4 percent to 6.07 yuan. Angang Steel lost 4.7 percent
to 7.28 yuan.  Hitachi Construction Machinery Co. , which counts
China as its biggest market, dropped 2.2 percent to 1,688 yen in
Tokyo, reversing a 1.6 percent advance.  
 The Conference Board said its index of leading Chinese
economic indicators rose 0.3 percent in April, less than the 1.7
percent gain reported on June 15. The New York-based research
firm said in an e-mailed statement the previous release
contained a “calculation error.”  
 “This correction doesn’t affect our outlook for the
Chinese economy,”  William Adams , resident economist for the
Conference Board in Beijing, said in a telephone interview.  
 China’s exports face “strong headwinds” in the second
half of the year from policy tightening measures and the
European debt crisis, reducing prospects for a rebound in the
stock market, Citigroup Inc. said in a report obtained today.  
 The Chinese government is seeking to sustain the nation’s
expansion while cooling property prices after record credit
growth increased concern inflation will accelerate. The Shanghai
Composite Index has tumbled 26 percent this year, the third-
biggest decline of 93 major indexes tracked by Bloomberg.  
 Yen Strength  
 Inpex slumped 3.8 percent to 493,500 yen. Crude oil futures
in New York fell for a second day, extending yesterday’s 0.8
percent decline. Woodside Petroleum Ltd., Australia’s No. 2 oil
and gas producer, slipped 1.6 percent to A$42.57.  
 Canon sank 2.7 percent to 3,395 yen as a stronger yen hurt
the earnings outlook for Japan’s exporters.  Honda Motor Co. ,
Japan’s second largest car maker, dropped 1.3 percent to 2,647
yen, after rising as much as 0.9 percent earlier.  
 The yen surged to as much as 107.82 against the euro from
110.65 at the close of Japanese stock trading yesterday. Against
the dollar, the yen appreciated to as much as 88.53 from 89.37.
A stronger yen reduces the value of overseas income for Japanese
companies when converted into their home currency.  
 “The stock and currency markets have just entered a
negative spiral,” said  Ayako Sera , a strategist in Tokyo at
Sumitomo Trust & Banking Co., which manages about $310 billion.
Falling stock prices lead to lower risk tolerance, which
strengthens the yen and further hurts equities, she said.  
 Among stocks that rose today,  Nippon Telegraph & Telephone
Co.  climbed 1 percent to 3,660 yen. The company’s NTT Finance
Corp. unit may post its first operating profit in three years,
Nikkei English News reported, without saying where it got the
information.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- Lewis Wan, chief investment officer at Pride Investments Group Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.'s planned initial public offering and the outlook for China's banking industry.
     Agricultural Bank set a price range for the Shanghai part of its initial public offering that will allow it to raise as much as $20.1 billion, according to a company statement. The Beijing-based bank may offer 22.2 billion shares in Shanghai at 2.52 yuan to 2.68 yuan apiece, it said. Agricultural Bank last week priced shares in the Hong Kong part of its IPO at HK$2.88 to HK$3.48 each. Wan, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses China's economy and stocks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
