-- Stocks Plunge on Concerns Over China, Confidence
-- Stephen Kirkland
-- 2010-06-29T20:50:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/asian-stocks-fall-to-two-week-low-yen-strengthens-on-china-growth-concern.html

          
          
             Stocks  sank from Shanghai to New
York, with the MSCI World Index losing the most in 14 months,
and two-year Treasury yields slid to a record low on concern
over weakening growth in China and a slump in U.S. consumer
confidence. The euro fell to an eight-year low versus the yen.  
 The  MSCI World Index  of 24 developed nations lost 3.2
percent, its biggest retreat since April 2009, as of 4 p.m. in
New York. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  slid 3.1 percent to
1,041.24, its lowest close since October, as 499 of its stocks
declined. The  Shanghai Composite Index  tumbled 4.3 percent. The
benchmark 2012 Treasury note yield slid as low as 0.5857 percent
and the 10-year yield sank below 3 percent for the first time in
14 months. Oil and copper slumped at least 3 percent.  
 “It’s ugly out there,” said  James Paulsen , who helps
oversee about $375 billion as chief investment strategist at
Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis. “Consumers are pulling
back. There’s concern about a China slowdown. We’re close to
important technical levels on the S&P 500, with 1,040 being
closely watched. It’s end of quarter, investors have to close
their books and they are selling the stocks that did poorly.”  
 The tumble in global stocks began after the Conference
Board said its leading economic index for China rose 0.3 percent
in April, less than the 1.7 percent reported June 15. Losses
accelerated after the same research group’s gauge of U.S.
consumer confidence slumped to 52.9 in June, below all 71
projections in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. The S&P
500 has tumbled 11 percent since the end of March, headed for
its first quarterly loss in a year.  
 Jobs, Europe Concerns  
 Today’s data damaged investor confidence amid concern a
Labor Department report July 2 will show the U.S. lost jobs for
the first time this year, while European bank balance sheets
come under heightened scrutiny as a lending facility from the
region’s central bank expires.  
 The rate banks say they charge each other for three-month
loans in euros rose to 0.688 percent in London, the highest in
eight months, as institutions hoarded cash before the 12-month
European Central Bank lending facility expires later this week.  
 European banks need to repay 442 billion euros ($540
billion) in 12-month loans to the ECB by July 1, the biggest
amount ever awarded by the central bank. Demand for three-month
cash from the ECB tomorrow will expose how much banks still rely
on the central bank for funding, investors and economists said.
The ECB will announce how much money banks have asked for at
about 11:15 a.m. in Frankfurt.  
 ‘Funding Pressures’  
 “Concerns about funding pressures are creeping in again,”
said  Alexander Titsch-Rivero , head of derivatives and structured
products in Frankfurt at BHF-Bank AG, a German private bank.
“Some banks seem to be concerned about the ECB’s 12-month loans
expiring. Definitely some banks seem to have built up huge bond
positions financed with this one-year ECB tender. Now you have a
roll-over gap and that seems to make people nervous.”  
 The  S&P 500 , the benchmark gauge for U.S. stocks, retreated
for the sixth time in seven days and has plunged 14 percent from
its 2010 high in April amid concern that Europe’s government
debt crisis and slowing growth in China will derail the global
recovery.  
 Today was the first day only one S&P 500 stock rose since
Sept. 29, 2008.  Zimmer Holdings Inc. , a maker of medical
implants and other surgical products, climbed less than 0.1
percent after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised buying the shares
and said the market its underestimating the company’s long-term
growth potential.  
 Verizon iPhone  
 Verizon Communications Inc. slipped 0.3 percent for the
third-best  performance  in the S&P 500 after Bloomberg News
reported that Verizon Wireless will start selling Apple Inc.’s
iPhone next year, according to two people familiar with the
plans.  
 The S&P 500’s decline today was its largest in three weeks
and pushed the gauge to its lowest intraday level of the year,
heightening the risk of bigger losses, according to analysts who
watch chart patterns.  
 The S&P 500 fell as much as 3.7 percent to 1,035.18 today,
below the May 25 level of 1,040.78 that had been its weakest
level of the year.  
 “Fear and negativity is pervasive,” said  Andrew Ross ,
partner and global equity trader for First New York Securities
LLC. “No one wants any long exposure going into the U.S.
employment data and we are a witnessing a confluence of some
very ugly market factors. The result is pretty extreme risk
aversion, best evidenced in treasury yields.”  
 Dow Below 10,000  
 Boeing Co., Alcoa Inc. and Caterpillar Inc. tumbled at
least 5.5 percent to lead losses in all 30  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  companies as the gauge slid 268.22 points to 9,870.3,
its first trip below 10,000 in more than two weeks.  
 Tesla Motors Inc., the electric car company that hasn’t
posted a profit, jumped 41 percent after raising $226 million in
the first initial public offering of a U.S. automaker in a half
century.  
 All 10 industry groups in the MSCI World Index declined at
least 1.9 percent, led by basic-materials producers and
financial companies. The gauge has lost 10 percent this year.
The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  dropped 1.5 percent today as Japan’s
unemployment rate unexpectedly increased.  
 The New York-based Conference Board cited a calculation
error for the revision in its Chinese indicators index. The
research group’s outlook for the nation’s economy hasn’t been
affected by the correction, said  William Adams , the group’s
resident economist in Beijing.  
 “Growth was not likely to accelerate in China, and in
fact, a moderation is possible,” Adams said in a telephone
interview. “This correction also supports the same view.”  
 Treasuries Rally  
 The yield on the two-year note pared its loss to two basis
points, leaving it at 0.61 percent. The yield on 10-year
Treasury security slid 7 basis points to 2.95 percent, the
lowest since April 2009.  Treasuries  have climbed 5.7 percent
this year, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. The 10-year
Australian bond yield dropped nine basis points to 5.13 percent,
and the yield on the 10-year German bund retreated three basis
points to 2.55 percent.  
 Indicators of corporate bond risk in the U.S. and Europe
rose. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or speculate on creditworthiness,
climbed 6 basis points to a mid-price of 122.5 basis points as
of 4:38 p.m. in New York, the highest since June 14, according
to Markit Group Ltd. In London, the Markit iTraxx Europe Index
of swaps on 125 companies with investment-grade ratings
increased 8.91 to 133.44, the biggest rise since June 7, Markit
prices show.  
 Yen, Dollar  
 The yen appreciated against all 16 major currencies and the
dollar strengthened against 14 on demand for assets perceived to
be the safest. Japan’s currency appreciated 1.6 percent to
107.93 per euro and touched 107.32 yen per euro, the strongest
since November 2001.  
 Metals declined for the first time in four sessions on the
London Metal Exchange, led by declines of more than 7 percent in
zinc, nickel and lead. Copper fell 4.5 percent to $2.9505 a
pound in New York, extending its decline this year to 13
percent. Oil for August delivery slumped the most in three
weeks, losing 3 percent to $75.94 a barrel on the New York
Mercantile Exchange.  
 The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 3 percent, the most
since May 25, extending this year’s drop to 6.7 percent.
Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index sank 3.5 percent, the most
since February.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  tumbled 3 percent as Rio Tinto
Group, the world’s third-biggest mining company, plunged 6.4
percent on concern demand from China may weaken. BP Plc lost 1.7
percent in London, bringing its decline since an April explosion
on the Deepwater Horizon rig to 54 percent.  
 The cost of insuring BP’s debt approached a record, with
credit-default swaps increasing 10 basis points to 594 as of
12:58 p.m. in New York, according to CMA DataVision, a London-
based credit information provider. The contracts closed at an
all-time high of 588.6 on June 25 and traded at a record of 620
on June 16.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A trader works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange in New York. Photographer: JB Reed/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- James Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management, talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton about the dip in Treasury yields and consumer confidence.
     Ten-year note yields dropped below 3 percent for the first time in more than a year as U.S. consumer confidence fell this month more than economists forecast. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- Thomas Tucci, head of U.S. government bond trading at RBC Capital Markets, talks about the Treasury market.
     Tucci, speaking with Betty Liu and Sheila Dharmarajan on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop," also discusses the outlook for Federal Reserve monetary policy and the U.S. economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- Charles Bobrinskoy, director of research for Ariel Investments, speaks about the stock market and investment strategy in health-care stocks.
     Bobrinskoy talks on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness with Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- Michael Feroli, chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York, talks about the outlook for U.S. economy and investor sentiment.
     Feroli speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- Andrew Popper, chief investment officer at SG Hambros Bank Ltd., talks about the economic outlook for China.
     The New York-based Conference Board revised its leading economic index for China to show the smallest gain in five months in April, in a release that contributed to the biggest sell-off in Chinese stocks in more than a month. Popper speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- Neil Dwane, chief investment officer for Europe at Allianz Global Investors' RCM unit, talks about the outlook for the global economy and his equities investment strategy.
     He speaks with Maryam Nemazeee on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- Lewis Wan, chief investment officer at Pride Investments Group Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.'s planned initial public offering and the outlook for China's banking industry.
     Agricultural Bank set a price range for the Shanghai part of its initial public offering that will allow it to raise as much as $20.1 billion, according to a company statement. The Beijing-based bank may offer 22.2 billion shares in Shanghai at 2.52 yuan to 2.68 yuan apiece, it said. Agricultural Bank last week priced shares in the Hong Kong part of its IPO at HK$2.88 to HK$3.48 each. Wan, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses China's economy and stocks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- Elon Musk, chief executive officer of Tesla Motors Inc., talks about the company's initial public offering and outlook.
     Tesla, the electric-car company that hasn’t posted a profit, raised $226 million selling shares above its forecast price range in the first IPO of a U.S. automaker in a half century. Musk speaks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
