-- AstraZeneca Wins Ruling on Validity of Patent for Cholesterol Drug Crestor
-- Susan Decker
-- 2010-06-29T22:04:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/astrazeneca-wins-ruling-on-validity-of-patent-for-cholesterol-drug-crestor.html

          
          
             AstraZeneca Plc , the U.K.’s second-
largest drugmaker, won a U.S. court ruling that will help
prevent generic-drug makers from selling lower-cost copies of
its cholesterol medicine Crestor until 2016.  
 A patent on the active ingredient in Crestor is valid and
enforceable, U.S. District Judge  Joseph J. Farnan Jr . ruled
today in Wilmington, Delaware. The judge rejected challenges by
companies including  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.  that
sought to market copies of the medicine.  
 Farnan concluded in his 44-page opinion that there was “no
scheme to defraud,” and wrote that the generic-drug companies’
claims were “based on a hindsight analysis of a successful
product and ignore the judgments, decisions and experimentation
that was required to reach the end product.”  
 AstraZeneca, based in London, and patent partner  Shionogi &
Co. , based in Osaka, Japan, sued the generic drugmakers starting
in 2007 to stop them from marketing copies of Crestor in the
U.S. before the patent expires in 2016.  
 Crestor, whose active ingredient is rosuvastatin, generated
$4.5 billion in global sales last year for AstraZeneca, making
it the London-based company’s  third-biggest  seller behind the
ulcer treatment Nexium and the antipsychotic Seroquel. It
competes with  Pfizer Inc. ’s Lipitor, the world’s best-selling
drug, in a category of medicines known as statins that lower
production of so-called bad cholesterol by blocking an enzyme in
the liver.  
 Crestor Protection  
 “The court’s decision reaffirms the strength of the
intellectual property protecting Crestor,” AstraZeneca Chief
Executive Officer  David Brennan  said in an e-mailed statement.  
 AstraZeneca American depositary receipts, each representing
one ordinary share, rose $4.02, or 9 percent, to $49.07 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The gain was
the biggest since Nov. 24, 2008. The ADRs had declined 4.7
percent this year before today.  
 In a note to investors on June 11, Barclays Capital
analysts predicted AstraZeneca would win the validity ruling,
boosting the shares. The analysts also forecast “negative
growth” after 2016, when the Crestor patent expires.  
 An AstraZeneca loss might have trimmed the company’s annual
profit by about 80 cents to 90 cents a share starting in 2011,
according to a Jan. 27 estimate by  Seamus Fernandez , an analyst
for Leerink Swann in New York.  
 Fundamentals ‘Unchanged’  
 “This is broadly in line with our expectations,” said
 Jeffrey Holford , an analyst at Jefferies International Ltd. in
London. “The fundamentals of the company are unchanged” and
“what does change is the significant overhang. A loss would
have triggered about a 20 percent hit to earnings.”  
 He said the company “still faces many years of patent
expiries and slightly declining earnings.”  
 Lawyers for companies including Petah Tikva, Israel-based
Teva, the world’s largest generic-drug maker, and the Sandoz
unit of Switzerland’s  Novartis AG  contended AstraZeneca didn’t
fully disclose details of earlier, similar inventions in its
application to U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  
 AstraZeneca lawyers said any omissions were the result of
mistakes on the application caused by “miscommunication and
mishandling,” and there was no intent to deceive officials.
Failure to report information that could bear on the originality
of a product could lead to a patent being thrown out.  
 Mylan, Sun  
 The challengers also included  Aurobindo Pharma Ltd. , Apotex
Inc.,  Par Pharmaceutical Co. ,  Mylan Inc.  and  Sun Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd.   
 Denise Bradley , a spokeswoman for Teva, said the company
had no comment. Officials with Mylan and Par didn’t immediately
return messages seeking comment. Lauren Cohen, a Sandoz
spokeswoman, had no immediate comment.  
 The decision was one of the last for Farnan, who is
retiring July 31. It may be appealed to a court in Washington
that specializes in U.S. patent law.  
 The combined case is In re Rosuvastatin Calcium Patent
Litigation, 08-1949, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  
 To see the patent: RE37,314.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Crestor  
                       
                         
                           JB Reed/Bloomberg 
                         
                         AstraZeneca Plc's cholesterol drug Crestor. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     AstraZeneca Plc's cholesterol drug Crestor. Photographer: JB Reed/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
