-- Tata BP Solar Says Business is Normal After Parent BP's Troubles in U.S.
-- Vandana Gombar
-- 2010-06-29T08:10:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/tata-bp-solar-says-business-is-normal-after-parent-bp-s-troubles-in-u-s-.html

          
          
                  June 29 (Bloomberg New Energy Finance) -- Tata BP Solar
India Ltd., jointly owned by BP Plc and Tata Power Co., said
business continues after liabilities mounted for its British
parent from the Gulf of Mexico oil leak and rating downgrades.  
 “We are carrying on business as before, it has no
relevance,” Krishnappa Subramanya, Bangalore-based chief
executive officer of Tata BP Solar, said by telephone today,
referring to the impact of BP’s oil spill, the largest in U.S.
history. “BP is a mighty company. We have two good parents.”  
 London-based BP has lost more than half of its  market value 
since the April 20 explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig that killed 11 crew members. The company has set
aside $20 billion to pay for Gulf restoration and compensation
claims and said yesterday the cost of battling the spill reached
$2.65 billion.  
 Standard & Poor’s on June 17  cut  BP for the second time
this month to A/A-1. Tata BP Solar was downgraded to AA- from AA
and placed on a rating watch with negative implications by
Standard & Poor’s on concern that liabilities from the spill
will reduce BP’s support for the company.  
 “We are not short of funds,” said Subramanya.  
 Tata BP Solar makes photovoltaic cells and modules. The
manufacturing capacity of cells, used in the making of modules,
is 84 megawatts while module manufacturing capacity is at 125
megawatts, he said.  
 “I have 96 megawatts of cell-making capacity sitting on
the shop floor, which is not commissioned because there is no
demand,” he said.  
 Tata BP Solar reported sales of about 10 billion rupees
($215 million) in the year ended March 2010, Subramanya said,
declining to reveal profit.  
 BP and Tata Power, India’s biggest electricity generator
outside state control, are jointly expanding in the nation after
the government set a target of increasing grid-connected solar
capacity to 1,000 megawatts by 2013 and 20,000 megawatts by 2022
from the current level of about 10 megawatts.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vandana Gombar  in New Delhi at 
 vgombar@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        