-- Tauron Debut After $1.3 Billion IPO May Be Weakest in Year of Polish Sales
-- Pawel Kozlowski
-- 2010-06-29T08:53:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/tauron-debut-after-1-3-billion-ipo-may-be-weakest-in-year-of-polish-sales.html

          
          
             Tauron Polska Energia SA, the Polish
utility trading in Warsaw for the first time tomorrow, may post
the smallest gain among companies sold by Poland’s government
during the past year as Europe’s debt crisis makes it harder to
raise money from investors.  
 Poland earned 4.21 billion zloty ($1.26 billion) from the
initial public offering of a 52 percent stake in Tauron as part
of a plan to speed up asset sales to finance the widening budget
deficit. The shares in Poland’s second-largest utility were sold
near the bottom of the range at 5.13 zloty each.  
 “I wouldn’t expect any major advance on the first day of
trading,” said  Jaroslaw Lis , who helps manage the equivalent of
$1.8 billion at Union Investment TFI SA. “Financial investors
seem to have bought as many shares as they had wanted in the
IPO, and further demand will be rather limited.”  
 Tauron’s stock may climb “a few percent” above the IPO
price on the first day, according to Lis, with some demand
coming from state-owned copper producer  KGHM Polska Miedz SA .
Poland’s biggest energy consumer, aiming to hedge power costs
and diversify revenue sources, bought half of the 10 percent
stake it had sought during the IPO.  
 The share sale followed the 8.1 billion-zloty May IPO of
state-controlled insurer  PZU SA , Europe’s biggest since December
2007. PZU, the largest publicly traded insurer in central
Europe, surged 15 percent on its first day of trading on the
Warsaw Stock Exchange.  
 Power, Coal  
 PGE SA , the power utility that went public last year,
jumped 13 percent at its debut and  Lubelski Wegiel Bogdanka SA ,
which the government sold in June 2009, rose 20 percent.  
 The benchmark WIG20 Index of stocks dropped 2 percent to
2,290.59 at 10:50 a.m. in Warsaw, extending this year’s decline
to 4.1 percent.  
 “Tauron isn’t as attractive as for example PZU or PGE,”
said Szymon Borawski-Reks, who helps manage the equivalent of
$3.1 billion at Bank Zachodni WBK SA’s mutual fund in Poznan.
“Its power-generation facilities require serious investment,
which may have scared off some investors.”  
 Tauron, which needs to shut down 1,700 megawatts of aging
generation capacity in the next 10 years, aims to increase
potential output to 8,500 megawatts by then, from 5,600
megawatts now, spending 48.8 billion zloty.  
 KGHM will wait for Tauron’s debut to decide on whether to
increase its stake,  Anna Osadczuk , a spokeswoman for the copper
producer, said by phone.  
 Tauron’s IPO, Poland’s third-largest since 2004, brought
the government almost halfway to its goal of 25 billion zloty in
2010 asset sales to help finance the budget deficit. Poland
pressed on with the sale even after Europe’s debt crisis
prompted at least 36 companies, from London-based Ferrous
Resources Ltd. to Chinese wind-turbine maker Xinjiang Goldwind
Science & Technology Co., to postpone sales since May 1.  
 Reverse Split  
 The price range was set at 0.55 zloty to 0.70 zloty a
share. The final price of 0.57 zloty changed to 5.13 zloty after
Tauron conducted a so-called reverse split, merging nine shares
into one to avoid the volatility of shares that trade below 1
zloty and thus have a minimum price move of 1 percent.  
 UBS AG and UniCredit SpA were the global coordinators of
Tauron’s sale. Bank of America Corp. Merrill Lynch, ING Groep
NV, BRE Bank SA, PKO Bank Polski SA, Bank Ochrony Srodowiska SA,
Bank Pekao SA and Trigon also helped arrange the offering.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        