-- Australian, N.Z. Stocks: APA, Downer, FKP, Nufarm, Infigen, Virgin Blue
-- Shani Raja
-- 2010-06-29T06:25:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/australian-n-z-stocks-apa-downer-fkp-nufarm-infigen-virgin-blue.html

          
          
             Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index 
declined 0.9 percent to 4,345.70 as of the close in Sydney. New
Zealand’s  NZX 50 Index  lost 0.6 percent to 2,991.07 in
Wellington.  
 The following were among the most active shares in the
market today. Stock symbols are in parentheses after company
names.  
 Australia:  
 APA Group  (APA AU) fell 1.1 percent to A$3.56. The company,
whose pipelines carry more than half Australia’s natural gas, is
considering bidding for some of Alinta Energy Ltd.’s assets, the
Australian Financial Review reported, citing an interview with
APA Managing Director  Mick McCormack .  
      Downer EDI Ltd.  (DOW AU) slumped 6.3 percent to A$3.74. The
Australian engineering company was downgraded to “hold” from
“accumulate” at E.L. & C. Baillieu Stockbroking Ltd.  
      Infigen Energy Ltd.  (IFN AU) tumbled 8.1 percent to 74
Australian cents. The Australian wind energy project developer
has decided to proceed with the construction of the 42-megawatt
Woodlawn wind farm near Bungendore in New South Wales state, the
company said.  
 Kingsgate Consolidated Ltd. (KCN AU) plunged 8.3 percent to
A$9.55. The gold mining and exploration company’s may sell
shares in its Thai gold mining unit in the fourth quarter after
winning government approval to expand, Thailand’s stock exchange
chief marketing officer Vichate Tantiwanich said.  
      Nufarm Ltd.  (NUF AU) climbed 4.4 percent to A$5.43.
Australia’s largest supplier of farm chemicals was raised to
“neutral” from “underperform” at Credit Suisse Group AG by
equity analyst  Rohan Gallagher .  
      Virgin Blue Holdings Ltd.  (VBA AU) rose  1.7 percent to
30.5 Australian cents. Chief Executive  John Borghetti  wants to
double the airline’s share of the corporate market to 20 percent,
the Australian Financial Review reported, without saying where
it got the information. Borghetti has hired Jane McKeon, Qantas
Airways Ltd.’s head of government and international relations,
the newspaper said.  
 New Zealand:  
 Guinness Peat Group Plc (GPG NZ) dropped 2.9 percent to 66
New Zealand cents. The investment holding company said it fired
Tony Gibbs as an executive and removed him from the board after
he published his personal view opposing the planned demerger of
the company’s Australian unit.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        