-- Australian Dollar Advances as Bank Lending Increases, Equities Pare Losses
-- Candice Zachariahs
-- 2010-06-30T16:46:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/australian-dollar-is-near-three-week-low-versus-greenback-yen-on-slowdown.html

          
          
             The Australian dollar dropped to
almost a three-week low, reversing earlier gains, as global
stocks fluctuated and crude oil dropped, damping investor demand
for higher-yielding assets.  
 New Zealand’s currency traded near an almost three-week low
versus the yen, and is poised for its second-straight quarterly
loss, before a July 2 Labor Department report forecast to show
the U.S. lost jobs for the first time this year. The  MSCI World
Index  and oil swung between gains and losses after reports
showed U.S. employers added fewer jobs than forecast in June.  
 “All the commodities have been hit due to the risk-off
trade,” said  Hidetoshi Yanagihara , a senior currency trader at
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in New York. “As long as the stocks
are pressed, the commodity currencies are getting weaker.”  
 Australia’s currency fell 0.2 percent to 84.69 U.S. cents
at 12:42 p.m. in New York from 84.87 cents yesterday, and is set
for a 7.7 percent loss since March 31. It earlier touched 84.36
cents, its weakest since June 11. The currency was at 74.99 yen
after yesterday reaching 75.19 yen.  
 New Zealand’s dollar fetched 68.94 U.S. cents from 69.20
cents, headed for a 3 percent drop this quarter. It traded at
61.04 yen from 61.31 yen yesterday. The kiwi has lost 8 percent
against the yen over the past three months.  
 Companies in the U.S. expanded payrolls by 13,000 in June,
according to figures from ADP Employer Services. The figures
were forecast to show a gain of 60,000 jobs, according to the
median estimate of 36 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. A Labor
Department report on July 2 is forecast to show payrolls
declined in June, reflecting a drop in federal census workers.  
 Shares, Lending  
 The Australian dollar gained earlier as bank lending rose
in May for a sixth month and house prices gained. Loans provided
by financial companies in Australia advanced 0.5 percent in May,
more than the median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. Dwelling prices across the nation’s largest cities rose
a seasonally adjusted 0.5 percent in May, according to an RP
Data-Rismark index released today.  
 New Zealand’s currency ended two days of losses after
central bank Governor  Alan Bollard  said policy makers will keep
unwinding monetary policy stimulus as the economy recovers.  
 New Zealand has emerged from its recession, benefiting from
stronger growth in its major trading partners, Bollard said in a
statement today when releasing the annual Statement of Intent.
Recovery remains sluggish in the U.K. and Europe, and sovereign
debt concerns hovering over several European economies are
disturbing financial markets, he said.  
 Both South Pacific nations’ currencies are headed for
quarterly losses amid concern Europe’s debt crisis will damp a
global recovery and before reports tomorrow that economists said
will show manufacturing growth in China and the U.S. slowed for
a second month. Year-to-date, the Aussie has weakened 5.6
percent against the greenback and the kiwi has lost 4.6 percent.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        