-- Australia's Gillard Prepares to Call an Election for August, ABC Reports
-- Gemma Daley
-- 2010-06-29T08:13:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-29/australia-s-gillard-prepares-to-call-an-election-for-august-abc-reports.html

          
          
             Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  will make an announcement on July 2 about an election to
be held in August, the Australian Broadcasting Corp. said,
citing an e-mail.  
 Aug. 7 and Aug. 14 were cited in the e-mail as possible
dates, the ABC reported on its website. Gillard’s office
wouldn’t comment on the e-mail, referring to her comments
earlier today.  
 “We’re going to move at some point during the second half
of the year to election day,” Gillard told Australian
Broadcasting Corp. radio in Melbourne today. “My scenario, the
one I’m focused on, is making sure we’re doing the things we
need to do to get the government back on track.”  
 Gillard, who ousted  Kevin Rudd  last week, vowed to resolve
a stand-off with mining companies over the super-profits tax
proposal and will announce a new climate change policy.  BHP 
Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group, the world’s largest and
third-largest mining companies, suspended their anti-tax
advertising as a sign of good faith after her appointment.  
 That advertizing may restart next week if Gillard’s talks
with the miners stall, the Association of Mining and Exploration
Companies chief executive officer Simon Bennison said today.  
 Labor leads the opposition by 53 percent to 47 percent,
according to a Newspoll telephone survey of 1,142 people between
June 25 and 27. Some 53 percent preferred Gillard as prime
minister, compared with 29 percent for Abbott, the poll, with a
3 percentage point margin of error, showed.  
 The earliest possible date for a joint House of
Representatives and Senate election is Aug. 7 under Australian
electoral laws.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        